{"id": "8138202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8138202", "title": "AALBC.com", "text": "AALBC.com\n\nAALBC.com, the African American Literature Book Club, is a website dedicated to books and film by and about African Americans and people of African descent with content also aimed at African-American bookstores. AALBC.com publishes book and film reviews, author profiles, resources for writers and related articles. Launched in 1998, AALBC was founded by Troy Johnson. It targets primarily a middle-aged African-American female demographic. It previously sold books through the Amazon.com affiliate program, and then started to operate its own warehousing and distribution program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29526330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29526330", "title": "BioCity Nottingham", "text": "BioCity Nottingham\n\nBioCity Nottingham is a bioscience science park in central Nottingham in the United Kingdom. It is the UK's largest bioscience innovation and incubation centre.\n\nIn 2002, laboratories and office space were donated to Nottingham Trent University by BASF. Biocity was founded in September 2003 by the University of Nottingham, Nottingham Trent University (NTU) and the East Midlands Development Agency (which was based close to BioCity).\n\nBiocity's premises were developed from the building donated by BASF. Phase 1 was completed in March 2004, providing of space, then Phase 2 in March 2006 provided . When Phase 3 of the development was completed in October 2008, with , funding from emda also finished.\n\nNottingham has long been an important centre for bioscience research, principally through work done at the University of Nottingham, Nottingham Trent University and by Boots, Britain's largest retail pharmacy company, which is based in Dunkirk/Beeston. Although Boots no longer engages in drug discovery, Ibuprofen (iso-butyl-propanoic-phenolic acid) was created by Boots scientists in Nottingham. In March 2005 Nottingham was named as a Science City; the other 5 Science Cities were Birmingham, Bristol, York, Newcastle and Manchester.\n\nIt is situated in former BASF buildings, which previously were used by Boots as research laboratories.\n\nThe site on \"Pennyfoot Street\", between the A60 and A612, is for bioscience SMEs. The University of Nottingham has the largest collaboration with companies at BioCity, with a few having links with NTU.\n\nThere are three buildings –\n\nIn January 2012 BioCity opened a second site, BioCity Scotland, resulting from the acquisition of a former MSD research facility near Glasgow.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38748306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38748306", "title": "Boanarí language", "text": "Boanarí language\n\nBoanarí (Bonari) is an extinct and poorly attested Cariban language. Kaufman (2007) placed it in his Atruahí branch.\n"}
{"id": "42691098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42691098", "title": "Boudoir cap", "text": "Boudoir cap\n\nA boudoir cap is a form of lingerie hat that was popularly worn in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In its original form, the boudoir cap was worn over undressed hair, and has been compared to the 18th century mob cap. Particularly towards the end it was designed to be worn in the privacy of the boudoir with negligees or nightwear. It was often made from lightweight lingerie-type fabrics such as muslin or net and trimmed with silk ribbon and lace. During its later revival in the 1910s and 1920s, it was used to protect short hairstyles whilst sleeping, or first thing in the morning as ideal \"for the smart bedroom woman.\" Towards the end of the 1920s and into the 1930s, the boudoir cap evolved into a form of decorative hairnet.\n"}
{"id": "46539523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46539523", "title": "British National Bibliography", "text": "British National Bibliography\n\nBritish National Bibliography (BNB) was established to publish a list of the books, journals and serials that are published in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. It also includes information on forthcoming titles. New books and serials have been recorded in the British National Bibliography (BNB) since 1950. The British National Bibliography was first established at the British Museum. This is the single most comprehensive listing of UK titles. UK and Irish publishers are obliged by legal deposit to send a copy of all new publications, including serial titles to BNB for listing. The BNB publish the list weekly in electronic form: the last printed weekly list appeared in December 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1233076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1233076", "title": "Bösendorfer", "text": "Bösendorfer\n\nBösendorfer (L. Bösendorfer Klavierfabrik GmbH) is an Austrian piano manufacturer and, since 2008, a wholly owned subsidiary of Yamaha. Bösendorfer is unusual in that it produces 97- and 92-key models in addition to instruments with standard 88-key keyboards.\n\nBösendorfer, one of the oldest piano manufacturers, was established in 1828 by Ignaz Bösendorfer. It has a history of producing highly respected instruments; in 1830, it was granted the status of official piano maker to the Emperor of Austria. Ignaz's son Ludwig Bösendorfer (15 April 1835 – 9 May 1919) assumed control in 1859, operating from new premises from 1860. Between 1872 and its closure in 1913, the associated Bösendorfer-Saal was one of the premier concert halls of Vienna. In 1909, Carl Hutterstrasser purchased the company and was succeeded by his sons Alexander and Wolfgang in 1931. In 1966, the Jasper Corporation (later renamed Kimball International), parent company of Kimball Pianos, assumed control of Bösendorfer, where it remained before returning to Austrian hands, when the BAWAG PSK Gruppe purchased it in 2002. BAWAG signed an agreement to sell all stock in Bösendorfer to Yamaha on 20 December 2007.\n\nBösendorfer pioneered the extension of the typical 88-key keyboard, creating the Imperial Grand (Model 290), which has 97 keys (eight octaves). Ferruccio Busoni initially ordered this innovation in 1909 as part of a custom piano, as he wanted to transcribe an organ piece that extended to the C below the standard keyboard. This innovation worked so well that this piano was added to regular product offerings and quickly became one of the world's most sought-after concert grands. Because of the 290's success, the extra strings were added to Bösendorfer's other line of instruments such as the 225 model, which has 92 keys. The extra keys, at the bass end of the keyboard, were originally hidden beneath a hinged panel mounted between the piano's conventional low A and the left-hand end-cheek to prevent their being struck accidentally during normal play; more recent models have omitted this device and simply have the upper surface of the extra natural keys finished in matte black instead of white to differentiate them from the standard 88.\n\nThe Bösendorfer sound is usually described as darker or richer than the purer but less full-bodied sound of other pianos, such as Steinway & Sons or Yamaha. On the Imperial Grand, this characteristic tonal quality in part derives from the inclusion of nine additional bass notes below bottom A. These extra keys were originally added so that pianists could play Busoni's transcriptions of J.S. Bach's organ works, which required the 32' bass pipes (usually played on the pedal organ). As very little other music makes direct use of the extra strings, they usually contribute to the piano's sonic character not through being played directly but via Sympathetic resonance, when other strings in the piano are struck, contributing additional body to the tone. Moreover, the bass notes of the Bösendorfer, including the extra bass keys, are very powerful, adding volume in demanding literature.\n\nBösendorfer Kuhn pianos count with 10 cupper cristal Swarovski cristals inserted along the steel structure. This cristals help organize sounds and diversify harmonies in contrast to enhance each pianists’ personal signature colour. The Million dollar Kuhn has 72 cristals installed under the cupper wires to improve sound quality.\n\nThe rim of a Bösendorfer grand piano is built quite differently from that of all other grands. Instead of veneers bent around a form, the rim is made in solid sections of spruce and jointed together. Spruce is better at transmitting sound than reflecting it. This is perhaps why Bösendorfers tend to have a more delicate treble and a bass that features the fundamental tone more than the higher harmonics. There are also two other features of Bösendorfers that are shared with only a few other piano brands: one is a removable \"capo d'astro\" bar in the treble, which facilitates rebuilding of the instrument and, Bösendorfer says, provides greater acoustic separation from the plate, decreasing tonal absorption; the other is single-stringing, providing each string its own individual hitch pin on the plate instead of connecting it to a neighboring string. This design may slightly improve tuning stability and is an advantage in case of string breakage.\n\nThe latest development in the Bösendorfer range is the CEUS digital grand piano reproducing system, which incorporates a computer-controlled mechanism that records a performance and plays it back. The requisite equipment can be fitted to most Bösendorfer pianos to allow the direct recording of pieces while capturing all the keyboard velocity data as a .boe file.\n\nBösendorfer makes eight models of grand piano (from 5'1\" to 9'6\") and two vertical pianos (48\" and 52\" upright). The 9'6\" Imperial Grand is one of the world's largest pianos.\n\nEach numerical Bösendorfer model directly corresponds to its length in centimeters. For example, a Model 170 is 170 centimeters long (approximately 5'7\"). The following table describes the current Bösendorfer models: \nTo appeal to a wider market, Bösendorfer designed the Conservatory Series for colleges and universities that could not afford Bösendorfer's standard black-model pianos. The production of the two CS Series pianos spends less time in \"non-critical areas\", cutting down costs of production and purchase, making them more affordable than standard models. The cases and frames are of satin finish, rather than polished, and initially, the pianos were loop-strung rather than single-strung, but that difference has since been abandoned.\n\nBösendorfer has produced a number of specially designed pianos named after famous composers such as Franz Schubert, Frédéric Chopin and Franz Liszt, as well as pianos designed for special occasions, such as Bösendorfer's 170th and 175th anniversaries.\n\nUnder the ownership of Kimball, Bösendorfer built and sold a small number of 290SE automatic reproducing pianos. The 'SE' designation was for Stahnke Engineering, whose founder, Wayne Stahnke, invented the mechanism. The 290 was fitted with electronics and mechanics to record on magnetic tape and playback through electro-mechanical actuation of the piano. After the release of the Microsoft Windows v3.1 operating system, the 290SE could be attached to a PC computer for recording, editing, and playback. The 290SE system was the first commercially available computer-controlled \"player piano\" capable of accurately reproducing both the notes and intensity of a performer's playing. Unfortunately this system was not further developed or patented due to its high cost. Competitors soon introduced patented reproducing piano technologies such as the Yamaha Disklavier in 1982.\n\nThirty seven SE models were produced between 1984 and 1986, including the 225SE, the 275SE, and the 290SE Imperial model pianos. In the 290 range, this included some 290 to 290SE conversions, while one third of the production were 290SEs that sold for $90,000.\n\nThe research that went into the 290SE later laid the foundation for the CEUS computerized reproducing piano system.\n\nBösendorfer produces a limited number of Artisan Models annually, each available for order only during the calendar year in which it was developed. An example of a designer model is the Bösendorfer Swarovski Crystal Grand piano. Three of these special pianos were produced in 2003 in honor of Bösendorfer's 175th anniversary. Each piano's case is encrusted with 8000 crystals and layers of gold.\n\nThree notable architects who have designed Bösendorfer piano models are Theophil Freiherr von Hansen (1866), Josef Hoffmann (1909) and Hans Hollein (1990). There were only two Hans Hollein 225 models produced in 1990; one can be found in the lounge of the Grand Bohemian Hotel in Orlando, Florida.\n\nAmong the earliest artists to be associated with Bösendorfer was Franz Liszt who at least once opined that Bösendorfer and Bechstein pianos were the only instruments capable of withstanding his tremendously powerful playing, although he purchased and officially endorsed Steinway & Sons pianos. The renowned twentieth-century American composer-conductor Leonard Bernstein has also performed on a Bösendorfer. Another great pianist who championed Bösendorfer pianos was Wilhelm Backhaus.\n\nIn his memoirs, Arthur Rubinstein recounts having insisted on a Bechstein instead of the hall's Bösendorfer before a recital in Austria. After the performance, the then-head of the Bösendorfer company came backstage to meet this young artist who refused to play a piano highly cherished by his Russian namesake, Anton Rubinstein; Rubinstein claims he thereafter always sought out Bösendorfers when in Austria. Both Rubinsteins were Steinway & Sons artists and played these pianos when in the United States.\n\nIn the late 1970s, following a concert performed in Vienna, jazz pianist Oscar Peterson turned to his impresario, Norman Granz, with the words: \"Dammit, Norman, where does this box go? I also gotta have such a thing!\" Such was his reaction to playing a Bösendorfer 290. Musician/comedian Victor Borge also played Bösendorfer pianos.\n\nMore recent examples of notable artists who have played the Bösendorfer include Russian pianist Sviatoslav Richter (who in later years chose to promote Yamaha claiming it had a preferable pianissimo sound and control, according to his own interview); Hungarian pianist András Schiff; Italian pianist Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli; American free jazz pianist Cecil Taylor and American singer-songwriter Tori Amos; German pianist Wolfgang Rübsam; Austrian pianist Friedrich Gulda, Walter Klien and Paul Badura-Skoda; British pianists Leon McCawley and Mark Gasser as well as the Irish pianist John O'Conor. Ukrainian pianist Valentina Lisitsa has recorded DVDs of Chopin and Schubert-Liszt on a 1925 model Bösendorfer, and has released a new video set of a recital using the 97-key Bösendorfer Imperial.\n\nMinimalist composer Charlemagne Palestine chose a nine-foot Bösendorfer as the vehicle on which to perform his 1974 composition \"Strumming Music\". Released as his first compact disc in 1991, it features in excess of 45 minutes of Palestine forcefully playing two notes in rapid alternation, slowly expanding into clusters, with the sustain pedal depressed throughout. As the music swells (and the piano gradually detunes), the harmonics build and the listener can hear a variety of timbres rarely produced by the piano.\n\nJazz pianist Keith Jarrett performed the solo improvisations (his Köln Concert) at the Cologne Opera House in Cologne on 24 January 1975 on a Bösendorfer and became a Steinway & Sons artist in 1981.\n\nThe jazz singers/pianists Nina Simone and Shirley Horn performed on Bösendorfers many times throughout their careers.\n\nIn a recent interview for Broadway.com, Academy Award-winning composer Stephen Schwartz stated that he purchased a Bösendorfer after the initial success of his musical Wicked.\n\nBösendorfer pianos have appeared on numerous records. Some examples are:\n\n\n\n\nA Bösendorfer featured in the Academy awards nominated 2017 \"Call Me by Your Name (film)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4750535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750535", "title": "Bún bò Huế", "text": "Bún bò Huế\n\nBún bò Huế (pronounced ) or bún bò is a popular Vietnamese soup containing rice vermicelli (\"bún\") and beef (\"bò\"). Huế is a city in central Vietnam associated with the cooking style of the former royal court. The dish is greatly admired for its balance of spicy, sour, salty, and umami flavors. The predominant flavor is that of lemongrass. Compared to \"phở\" or \"bún riêu\", the noodles are thicker and more cylindrical.\n\nBún bò originated in Huế, a former capital of Vietnam. Outside the city of Huế and some parts of central Vietnam, it is called \"bún bò Huế\" to denote its origin. Within Huế and surrounding cities, it is known simply as \"bún bò\". The broth is prepared by simmering beef bones and beef shank with lemongrass, and then seasoned with fermented shrimp sauce and sugar for taste. Spicy chili oil is added later during the cooking process.\n\nBún bò usually includes thin slices of marinated and boiled beef shank, chunks of oxtail, and pig's knuckles. It can also include cubes of congealed pig blood, which has a color between dark brown and maroon, and a texture resembling firm tofu.\n\nBún bò is commonly served with lime wedges, cilantro sprigs, diced green onions, raw sliced onions, chili sauce, thinly sliced banana blossom, red cabbage, mint, basil, perilla, \"Persicaria odorata\" or Vietnamese coriander (\"rau răm\"), saw tooth herb (\"ngò gai\") and sometimes mung bean sprouts. Thinly sliced purple cabbage is acceptable substitute when banana blossoms are not available. Purple cabbage most resembles banana blossom in texture, though not in taste. Fish sauce and shrimp sauce are added to the soup according to taste. Ingredients might be varied by regions due to their availability.\n"}
{"id": "20363219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20363219", "title": "Cannibal (2006 film)", "text": "Cannibal (2006 film)\n\nCannibal is a 2006 German direct-to-video horror film written, directed and produced by Marian Dora in his feature film debut. The film centers on a mentally disturbed individual simply known as \"The Man\", who has cannibalistic fantasies, who makes a deal with a suicidal man known as \"The Flesh\" who agrees to let The Man eat him.\n\nIn the intro, a mother reads the story of \"Hansel and Gretel\" to her young boy. The setting then moves to the present day, where The Man goes about his day-to-day routines and occasionally chats with others on his computer, where he looks for someone who shares his cannibalistic fantasies. The Man meets with several people he had chatted with, but he either rejects them or is rejected (and in one case attacked) by them, except for The Flesh, a suicidal man who volunteers to be killed and eaten by The Man. The Flesh travels to The Man from Berlin, and the two bond, having sex and frolicking in the nude in and around The Man's home.\n\nWhen The Flesh decides that it is time for him to die and be devoured, he tries to coerce The Man into biting off his penis, but The Man is unable to go through with it, even when The Flesh uses drugs to knock himself out in an attempt to make things easier. Disappointed, The Flesh chastises The Man. The Flesh decides to give him another chance when The Man begs him to stay just as he is about to board a train back to Berlin. Returning to The Man's home, The Flesh ingests a large amount of alcohol and pills, then instructs The Man to castrate him with a kitchen knife, which The Man succeeds at doing. The two then fry and attempt to eat the severed penis, before The Flesh seemingly dies of blood loss in a bath The Man places The Flesh in.\n\nThe Man drags The Flesh's inert body (which vomits and defecates repeatedly) to a room he has readied for slaughter. Before he can begin taking The Flesh apart, The Man is shocked to discover The Flesh is still alive, so he stabs him in the throat. The Man then beheads, guts and dismembers The Flesh, buries the inedible parts, and cooks and eats the rest; he places The Flesh's severed head at the head of the table. The Man then masturbates to video footage of what he has done, and leaves.\n\n\n\"Cannibal\" is partially based on the true story of Armin Meiwes who killed and ate a man whom he met on the Internet.\n\nIn 2004 director Marian Dora, accepted Ulli Lommel's assignment to make a feature film in Germany that documented the Meiwes case. Dora's finished film was rejected by Lommel as being too gory, and Dora subsequently released the movie on his own in Germany within months. Lommel set about producing his own version of the Meiwes case, which became the 2007 film \"Diary of a Cannibal\".\n\n\"Cannibal\" was released on DVD in Germany in April 2006.\n\nThe film was later released on DVD in the United States by Anthem Pictures on December 19, 2006. \n\"Cannibal\" was banned pursuant to § 184a StGB in Germany/List B of the list of Media Harmful to Young People on 29 June 2007.\n\nScott Weinberg of DVD Talk rated the film 2/5 stars and wrote, \"One of the sickest and freakiest movies ever to come from a nation well-known for its freaky and sick movies (Germany), \"Cannibal\" is shocking, outrageous, sickening ... and just a little bit interesting because it's based on actual events.\" Joshua Siebalt of Dread Central rated it 2/5 stars and wrote, \"The only real selling point \"Cannibal\" has is its graphic depiction of cannibalism. There are some nasty, nasty moments throughout, but you have to get through a whole lot of nothing before you see them.\" Sean Leonard from \"HorrorNews.net\" praised the film, writing, \"This is the first movie in a long time that disturbed me to my core. The entire second half of this movie is non-stop suffering, sadness, dismemberment, and cannibalism. It feels very real, like the viewer is watching from the next room, but also like the viewer is watching something real. The scary thing is, somewhere out there exists video of the actual events.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54581896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54581896", "title": "Catholic education", "text": "Catholic education\n\nCatholic education may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21481963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21481963", "title": "Cricket (insect)", "text": "Cricket (insect)\n\nCrickets (also known as \"true crickets\"), of the family Gryllidae, are insects related to bush crickets, and, more distantly, to grasshoppers. The Gryllidae have mainly cylindrical bodies, round heads, and long antennae. Behind the head is a smooth, robust pronotum. The abdomen ends in a pair of long cerci (spikes); females have a long, cylindrical ovipositor. The hind legs have enlarged femora (thighs), providing power for jumping. The front wings are adapted as tough, leathery elytra (wing covers), and some crickets chirp by rubbing parts of these together. The hind wings are membranous and folded when not in use for flight; many species, however, are flightless. The largest members of the family are the bull crickets, \"Brachytrupes\", which are up to long.\n\nMore than 900 species of crickets are described; the Gryllidae are distributed all around the world except at latitudes 55° or higher, with the greatest diversity being in the tropics. They occur in varied habitats from grassland, bushes, and forests to marshes, beaches, and caves. Crickets are mainly nocturnal, and are best known for the loud, persistent, chirping song of males trying to attract females, although some species are mute. The singing species have good hearing, via the tympana (eardrums) on the tibiae of the front legs.\n\nCrickets often appear as characters in literature. The Talking Cricket features in Carlo Collodi's 1883 children's book, \"The Adventures of Pinocchio\", and in films based on the book. The eponymous insect is central to Charles Dickens's 1845 \"The Cricket on the Hearth\", as is the chirping insect in George Selden's 1960 \"The Cricket in Times Square\". Crickets are celebrated in poems by William Wordsworth, John Keats, and Du Fu. They are kept as pets in countries from China to Europe, sometimes for cricket fighting. Crickets are efficient at converting their food into body mass, making them a candidate for food production. They are used as food in Southeast Asia, where they are sold deep-fried in markets as snacks. They are also used to feed carnivorous pets and zoo animals. In Brazilian folklore, crickets feature as omens of various events.\n\nCrickets are small to medium-sized insects with mostly cylindrical, somewhat vertically flattened bodies. The head is spherical with long slender antennae arising from cone-shaped scapes (first segments) and just behind these are two large compound eyes. On the forehead are three ocelli (simple eyes). The pronotum (first thoracic segment) is trapezoidal in shape, robust, and well-sclerotinized. It is smooth and has neither dorsal or lateral keels (ridges).\n\nAt the tip of the abdomen is a pair of long cerci (paired appendages on rearmost segment), and in females, the ovipositor is cylindrical, long and narrow, smooth and shiny. The femora (third segments) of the back pair of legs are greatly enlarged for jumping. The tibiae (fourth segments) of the hind legs are armed with a number of moveable spurs, the arrangement of which is characteristic of each species. The tibiae of the front legs bear one or more tympani which are used for the reception of sound.\n\nThe wings lie flat on the body and are very variable in size between species, being reduced in size in some crickets and missing in others. The fore wings are elytra made of tough chitin, acting as a protective shield for the soft parts of the body and in males, bear the stridulatory organs for the production of sound. The hind pair is membranous, folding fan-wise under the fore wings. In many species, the wings are not adapted for flight.\n\nThe largest members of the family are the -long bull crickets (\"Brachytrupes\") which excavate burrows a metre or more deep. The tree crickets (Oecanthinae) are delicate white or pale green insects with transparent fore wings, while the field crickets (Gryllinae) are robust brown or black insects.\n\nCrickets have a cosmopolitan distribution, being found in all parts of the world with the exception of cold regions at latitudes higher than about 55° North and South. They have colonised many large and small islands, sometimes flying over the sea to reach these locations, or perhaps conveyed on floating timber or by human activity. The greatest diversity occurs in tropical locations, such as in Malaysia, where 88 species were heard chirping from a single location near Kuala Lumpur. A greater number than this could have been present because some species are mute.\n\nCrickets are found in many habitats. Members of several subfamilies are found in the upper tree canopy, in bushes, and among grasses and herbs. They also occur on the ground and in caves, and some are subterranean, excavating shallow or deep burrows. Some make home in rotting wood, and certain beach-dwelling species can run and jump over the surface of water.\n\nCrickets are relatively defenceless, soft-bodied insects. Most species are nocturnal and spend the day hidden in cracks, under bark, inside curling leaves, under stones or fallen logs, in leaf litter, or in the cracks in the ground that develop in dry weather. Some excavate their own shallow holes in rotting wood or underground and fold in their antennae to conceal their presence. Some of these burrows are temporary shelters, used for a single day, but others serve as more permanent residences and places for mating and laying eggs. Crickets burrow by loosening the soil with the mandibles and then carrying it with the limbs, flicking it backwards with the hind legs or pushing it with the head.\n\nOther defensive strategies are the use of camouflage, fleeing, and aggression. Some species have adopted colourings, shapes, and patterns that make it difficult for predators that hunt by sight to detect them. They tend to be dull shades of brown, grey, and green that blend into their background, and desert species tend to be pale. Some species can fly, but the mode of flight tends to be clumsy, so the most usual response to danger is to scuttle away to find a hiding place.\n\nMost male crickets make a loud chirping sound by stridulation (scraping two specially textured limbs together). The stridulatory organ is located on the tegmen, or fore wing, which is leathery in texture. A large vein runs along the centre of each tegmen, with comb-like serrations on its edge forming a file-like structure, and at the rear edge of the tegmen is a scraper. The tegmina are held at an angle to the body and rhythmically raised and lowered which causes the scraper on one wing to rasp on the file on the other. The central part of the tegmen contains the \"harp\", an area of thick, sclerotinized membrane which resonates and amplifies the volume of sound, as does the pocket of air between the tegmina and the body wall. Most female crickets lack the necessary adaptations to stridulate, so make no sound.\n\nSeveral types of cricket songs are in the repertoire of some species. The calling song attracts females and repels other males, and is fairly loud. The courting song is used when a female cricket is near and encourages her to mate with the caller. A triumphal song is produced for a brief period after a successful mating, and may reinforce the mating bond to encourage the female to lay some eggs rather than find another male. An aggressive song is triggered by contact chemoreceptors on the antennae that detect the presence of another male cricket.\n\nCrickets chirp at different rates depending on their species and the temperature of their environment. Most species chirp at higher rates the higher the temperature is (about 62 chirps a minute at in one common species; each species has its own rate). The relationship between temperature and the rate of chirping is known as Dolbear's law. According to this law, counting the number of chirps produced in 14 seconds by the snowy tree cricket, common in the United States, and adding 40 will approximate the temperature in degrees Fahrenheit.\n\nIn 1975, Dr. William H. Cade discovered that the parasitic tachinid fly \"Ormia ochracea\" is attracted to the song of the cricket, and uses it to locate the male to deposit her larvae on him. It was the first known example of a natural enemy that locates its host or prey using the mating signal. Since then, many species of crickets have been found to be carrying the same parasitic fly, or related species. In response to this selective pressure, a mutation leaving males unable to chirp was observed amongst a population of field crickets on the Hawaiian island of Kauai, enabling these crickets to elude their parasitoid predators. A different mutation with the same effect was also discovered on the neighboring island of Oahu (ca. away).\n\nSome species, such as the ground crickets (Nemobiinae), are wingless; others have small fore wings and no hind wings (\"Copholandrevus\"), others lack hind wings and have shortened fore wings in females only, while others are macropterous, with the hind wings longer than the fore wings. In \"Teleogryllus\", the proportion of macropterous individuals varies from very low to 100%. Probably, most species with hind wings longer than fore wings engage in flight.\n\nSome species, such as \"Gryllus assimilis\", take off, fly, and land efficiently and well, while other species are clumsy fliers. In some species, the hind wings are shed, leaving wing stumps, usually after dispersal of the insect by flight. In other species, they may be pulled off and consumed by the cricket itself or by another individual, probably providing a nutritional boost.\n\n\"Gryllus firmus\" exhibits wing polymorphism; some individuals have fully functional, long hind wings and others have short wings and cannot fly. The short-winged females have smaller flight muscles, greater ovarian development, and produce more eggs, so the polymorphism adapts the cricket for either dispersal or reproduction. In some long-winged individuals, the flight muscles deteriorate during adulthood and the insect's reproductive capabilities improve.\n\nCaptive crickets are omnivorous; when deprived of their natural diet, they accept a wide range of organic foodstuffs. Some species are completely herbivorous, feeding on flowers, fruit, and leaves, with ground-based species consuming seedlings, grasses, pieces of leaf, and the shoots of young plants. Others are more predatory and include in their diet invertebrate eggs, larvae, pupae, moulting insects, scale insects, and aphids. Many are scavengers and consume various organic remains, decaying plants, seedlings, and fungi. In captivity, many species have been successfully reared on a diet of ground, commercial dry dog food, supplemented with lettuce and aphids.\n\nCrickets have relatively powerful jaws, and several species have been known to bite humans.\n\nMale crickets establish their dominance over each other by aggression. They start by lashing each other with their antennae and flaring their mandibles. Unless one retreats at this stage, they resort to grappling, at the same time each emitting calls that are quite unlike those uttered in other circumstances. When one achieves dominance, it sings loudly, while the loser remains silent.\n\nFemales are generally attracted to males by their calls, though in nonstridulatory species, some other mechanism must be involved. After the pair has made antennal contact, a courtship period may occur during which the character of the call changes. The female mounts the male and a single spermatophore is transferred to the external genitalia of the female. Sperm flows from this into the female's oviduct over a period of a few minutes or up to an hour, depending on species. After copulation, the female may remove or eat the spermatophore; males may attempt to prevent this with various ritualised behaviours. The female may mate on several occasions with different males.\nMost crickets lay their eggs in the soil or inside the stems of plants, and to do this, female crickets have a long, needle-like or sabre-like egg-laying organ called an ovipositor. Some ground-dwelling species have dispensed with this, either depositing their eggs in an underground chamber or pushing them into the wall of a burrow. The short-tailed cricket (\"Anurogryllus\") excavates a burrow with chambers and a defecating area, lays its eggs in a pile on a chamber floor, and after the eggs have hatched, feeds the juveniles for about a month.\n\nCrickets are hemimetabolic insects, whose lifecycle consists of an egg stage, a larval or nymph stage that increasingly resembles the adult form as the nymph grows, and an adult stage. The egg hatches into a nymph about the size of a fruit fly. This passes through about 10 larval stages, and with each successive moult, it becomes more like an adult. After the final moult, the genitalia and wings are fully developed, but a period of maturation is needed before the cricket is ready to breed.\n\nSome species of cricket are polyandrous. In \"Gryllus bimaculatus\", the females select and mate with multiple viable sperm donors, preferring novel mates. Female \"Teleogryllus oceanicus\" crickets from natural populations similarly mate and store sperm from multiple males. Female crickets exert a postcopulatory fertilization bias in favour of unrelated males to avoid the genetic consequences of inbreeding. Fertilization bias depends on the control of sperm transport to the sperm storage organs. The inhibition of sperm storage by female crickets can act as a form of cryptic female choice to avoid the severe negative effects of inbreeding. Controlled-breeding experiments with the cricket \"Gryllus firmus\" demonstrated inbreeding depression, as nymphal weight and early fecundity declined substantially over the generations' this was caused as expected by an increased frequency of homozygous combinations of deleterious recessive alleles.\n\nCrickets have many natural enemies and are subject to various pathogens and parasites. They are eaten by large numbers of vertebrate and invertebrate predators and their hard parts are often found during the examination of animal intestines. Mediterranean house geckos (\"Hemidactylus turcicus\") have learned that although a calling decorated cricket (\"Gryllodes supplicans\") may be safely positioned in an out-of-reach burrow, female crickets attracted to the call can be intercepted and eaten.\nThe entomopathogenic fungus \"Metarhizium anisopliae\" attacks and kills crickets and has been used as the basis of control in pest populations. The insects are also affected by the cricket paralysis virus, which has caused high levels of fatalities in cricket-rearing facilities. Other fatal diseases that have been identified in mass-rearing establishments include \"Rickettsia\" and three further viruses. The diseases may spread more rapidly if the crickets become cannibalistic and eat the corpses.\n\nRed parasitic mites sometimes attach themselves to the dorsal region of crickets and may greatly affect them. The horsehair worm \"Paragordius varius\" is an internal parasite and can control the behaviour of its cricket host and cause it to enter water, where the parasite continues its lifecycle and the cricket likely drowns. The larvae of the sarcophagid fly \"Sarcophaga kellyi\" develop inside the body cavity of field crickets. Female parasitic wasps of \"Rhopalosoma\" lay their eggs on crickets, and their developing larvae gradually devour their hosts. Other wasps in the family Scelionidae are egg parasitoids, seeking out batches of eggs laid by crickets in plant tissues in which to insert their eggs.\n\nThe fly \"Ormia ochracea\" has very acute hearing and targets calling male crickets. It locates its prey by ear and then lays its eggs nearby. The developing larvae burrow inside any crickets with which they come in contact and in the course of a week or so, devour what remains of the host before pupating. In Florida, the parasitic flies were only present in the autumn, and at that time of year, the males sang less but for longer periods. A trade-off exists for the male between attracting females and being parasitized.\n\nThe phylogenetic relationships of the Gryllidae, summarized by Darryl Gwynne in 1995 from his own work (using mainly anatomical characteristics) and that of earlier authors, are shown in the following cladogram, with the Orthoptera divided into two main groups, Ensifera (crickets \"sensu lato\") and Caelifera (grasshoppers). Fossil Ensifera are found from the late Carboniferous period (300 Mya) onwards, and the true crickets, Gryllidae, from the Triassic period (250 to 200 Mya).\n\nCladogram after Gwynne, 1995:\n\nA phylogenetic study by Jost & Shaw in 2006 using sequences from 18S, 28S, and 16S rRNA supported the monophyly of Ensifera. Most ensiferan families were also found to be monophyletic, and the superfamily Gryllacridoidea was found to include Stenopelmatidae, Anostostomatidae, Gryllacrididae and Lezina. Schizodactylidae and Grylloidea were shown to be sister taxa, and Rhaphidophoridae and Tettigoniidae were found to be more closely related to Grylloidea than had previously been thought. The authors stated that \"a high degree of conflict exists between the molecular and morphological data, possibly indicating that much homoplasy is present in Ensifera, particularly in acoustic structures.\" They considered that tegmen stridulation and tibial tympanae are ancestral to Ensifera and have been lost on multiple occasions, especially within the Gryllidae.\n\nMore than 900 species of Gryllidae (true crickets) are known. The family is divided into these subfamily groups, subfamilies, and extinct genera (not placed within the subfamilies):\n\nThe folklore and mythology surrounding crickets is extensive. The singing of crickets in the folklore of Brazil and elsewhere is sometimes taken to be a sign of impending rain, or of a financial windfall. In Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca's chronicles of the Spanish conquest of the Americas, the sudden chirping of a cricket heralded the sighting of land for his crew, just as their water supply had run out. In Caraguatatuba, Brazil, a black cricket in a room is said to portend illness; a gray one, money; and a green one, hope. In Alagoas state, northeast Brazil, a cricket announces death, thus it is killed if it chirps in a house. In Barbados, a loud cricket means money is coming in; hence, a cricket must not be killed or evicted if it chirps inside a house. However, another type of cricket that is less noisy forebodes illness or death.\n\nCrickets feature as major characters in novels and children's books. Charles Dickens's 1845 novella \"The Cricket on the Hearth\", divided into sections called \"Chirps\", tells the story of a cricket which chirps on the hearth and acts as a guardian angel to a family. Carlo Collodi's 1883 children's book \"Le avventure di Pinocchio\" (\"The Adventures of Pinocchio\") featured \"Il Grillo Parlante\" (The Talking Cricket) as one of its characters. George Selden's 1960 children's book \"The Cricket in Times Square\" tells the story of Chester the cricket from Connecticut who joins a family and their other animals, and is taken to see Times Square in New York. The story, which won the Newbery Honor, came to Selden on hearing a real cricket chirp in Times Square.\n\n\"Souvenirs entomologiques\", a book written by the French entomologist Jean-Henri Fabre, devotes a whole chapter to the cricket, discussing its construction of a burrow and its song-making. The account is mainly of the field cricket, but also mentions the Italian cricket.\n\nCrickets have from time to time appeared in poetry. William Wordsworth's 1805 poem \"The Cottager to Her Infant\" includes the couplet \"The kitten sleeps upon the hearth, The crickets long have ceased their mirth\". John Keats's 1819 poem \"Ode to Autumn\" includes the lines \"Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft / The redbreast whistles from a garden-croft\". The Chinese Tang dynasty poet Du Fu (712–770) wrote a poem that in the translation by J. P. Seaton begins \"House cricket ... Trifling thing. And yet how his mournful song moves us. Out in the grass his cry was a tremble, But now, he trills beneath our bed, to share his sorrow.\"\n\nCrickets are kept as pets and are considered good luck in some countries; in China, they are sometimes kept in cages or in hollowed-out gourds specially created in novel shapes. The practice was common in Japan for thousands of years; it peaked in the 19th century, though crickets are still sold at pet shops. It is also common to have them as caged pets in some European countries, particularly in the Iberian Peninsula. Cricket fighting is a traditional Chinese pastime that dates back to the Tang dynasty (618–907). Originally an indulgence of emperors, cricket fighting later became popular among commoners. The dominance and fighting ability of males does not depend on strength alone; it has been found that they become more aggressive after certain pre-fight experiences such as isolation, or when defending a refuge. Crickets forced to fly for a short while will afterwards fight for two to three times longer than they otherwise would.\n\nIn the southern part of Asia including Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam, crickets are commonly eaten as a snack, prepared by deep frying the soaked and cleaned insects. In Thailand, there are 20,000 farmers rearing crickets, with an estimated production of 7,500 tons per year and United Nation's FAO has implemented a project in Laos to improve cricket farming and consequently food security. The food conversion efficiency of house crickets (\"Acheta domesticus\") is 1.7, some five times higher than that for beef cattle, and if their fecundity is taken into account, 15 to 20 times higher.\n\nCrickets are also reared as food for carnivorous zoo animals, laboratory animals, and pets. They may be \"gut loaded\" with additional minerals, such as calcium, to provide a balanced diet for predators such as tree frogs (Hylidae).\n\nCricket characters feature in the Walt Disney animated movies \"Pinocchio\" (1940), where Jiminy Cricket becomes the title character's conscience, and in \"Mulan\" (1998), where Cri-kee is carried in a cage as a symbol of luck, in the Asian manner. The Crickets was the name of Buddy Holly's rock and roll band; Holly's home town baseball team in the 1990s was called the Lubbock Crickets. \"Cricket\" is the name of a US children's literary magazine founded in 1973; it uses a cast of insect characters. The sound of crickets is often used in media to emphasize silence, often for comic effect after an awkward joke, in a similar manner to tumbleweed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2036118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036118", "title": "Cultural lag", "text": "Cultural lag\n\nThe term cultural lag refers to the notion that culture takes time to catch up with technological innovations, and that social problems and conflicts are caused by this lag. Subsequently, cultural lag does not only apply to this idea only, but also relates to theory and explanation. It helps by identifying and explaining social problems to predict future problems.\n\nAs explained by James W. Woodward, when the material conditions change, changes are occasioned in the adaptive culture, but these changes in the adaptive culture do not synchronize exactly with the change in the material culture, this delay is the culture lag. The term was coined by sociologist William F. Ogburn in his 1922 work \"Social change with respect to culture and original nature.\" His theory of cultural lag suggests that a period of maladjustment occurs when the non-material culture is struggling to adapt to new material conditions. This resonates with ideas of technological determinism. That is it can presuppose that technology has independent effects on society at large. However it does not necessarily assign causality to technology. Rather cultural lag focuses examination on the period of adjustment to new technologies. \n\nAccording to Ogburn, cultural lag is a common societal phenomenon due to the tendency of material culture to evolve and change rapidly and voluminously while non-material culture tends to resist change and remain fixed for a far longer period of time. Due to the opposing nature of these two aspects of culture, adaptation of new technology becomes rather difficult. This distinction between material and non-material culture is also a contribution of Ogburn's 1922 work on social change. \n\nCultural lag creates problems for a society in a multitude of ways. The issue of cultural lag tends to permeate any discussion in which the implementation of some new technology is a topic. For example, the advent of stem cell research has given rise to many new, potentially beneficial medical technologies; however these new technologies have also raised serious ethical questions about the use of stem cells in medicine. Cultural lag is seen as a critical ethical issue because failure to develop broad social consensus on appropriate applications of modern technology may lead to breakdowns in social solidarity and the rise of social conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168919", "title": "Deliberative democracy", "text": "Deliberative democracy\n\nDeliberative democracy or discursive democracy is a form of democracy in which deliberation is central to decision-making. It adopts elements of both consensus decision-making and majority rule. Deliberative democracy differs from traditional democratic theory in that authentic deliberation, not mere voting, is the primary source of legitimacy for the law.\n\nWhile deliberative democracy is generally seen as some form of an amalgam of representative democracy and direct democracy, the actual relationship is usually open to dispute. Some practitioners and theorists use the term to encompass representative bodies whose members authentically deliberate on legislation without unequal distributions of power, while others use the term exclusively to refer to decision-making directly by lay citizens, as in direct democracy.\n\nThe term \"deliberative democracy\" was originally coined by Joseph M. Bessette in his 1980 work \"Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government\".\n\nDeliberative democracy holds that, for a democratic decision to be legitimate, it must be preceded by authentic deliberation, not merely the aggregation of preferences that occurs in voting. \"Authentic deliberation\" is deliberation among decision-makers that is free from distortions of unequal political power, such as power a decision-maker obtained through economic wealth or the support of interest groups. If the decision-makers cannot reach consensus after authentically deliberating on a proposal, then they vote on the proposal using a form of majority rule.\n\nThe roots of deliberative democracy can be traced back to Aristotle and his notion of politics; however, the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas' work on communicative rationality and the public sphere is often identified as a major work in this area.\n\nDeliberative democracy can be practiced by decision-makers in both representative democracies and direct democracies. In \"elitist deliberative democracy,\" principles of deliberative democracy apply to elite societal decision-making bodies, such as legislatures and courts; in \"populist deliberative democracy,\" principles of deliberative democracy apply to groups of lay citizens who are empowered to make decisions. One purpose of populist deliberative democracy can be to use deliberation among a group of lay citizens to distill a more authentic public opinion about societal issues but not directly create binding law; devices such as the deliberative opinion poll have been designed to achieve this goal. Another purpose of populist deliberative democracy can be to serve as a form of direct democracy, where deliberation among a group of lay citizens forms a \"public will\" and directly creates binding law. If political decisions are made by deliberation but not by the people themselves or their elected representatives, then there is no democratic element; this deliberative process is called \"elite deliberation\". According to Fishkin, this process attempts to indirectly filter the mass public opinion because representatives are better equipped with the knowledge of the common good than ordinary citizens.\n\nJames Fishkin, who has designed practical implementations of deliberative democracy for over 15 years in various countries, describes five characteristics essential for legitimate deliberation:\nIn Fishkin's definition of deliberative democracy, lay citizens must participate in the decision-making process, thus making it a subtype of direct democracy.\n\nJames Fishkin and Robert Luskin suggest that deliberative discussion should be:\n\nJoshua Cohen, a student of John Rawls, outlined conditions that he thinks constitute the root principles of the theory of deliberative democracy, in the article \"Deliberation and Democratic Legitimacy\" in the 1989 book \"The Good Polity\". He outlines five main features of deliberative democracy, which include:\n\nThis can be construed as the idea that in the legislative process, we \"owe\" one another reasons for our proposals.\n\nCohen presents deliberative democracy as more than a theory of legitimacy, and forms a body of substantive rights around it based on achieving \"ideal deliberation\":\n\nIn \"Democracy and Liberty\", an essay published in 1998, Cohen reiterated many of these points, also emphasizing the concept of \"reasonable pluralism\" – the acceptance of different, incompatible worldviews and the importance of good faith deliberative efforts to ensure that as far as possible the holders of these views can live together on terms acceptable to all.\n\nAmy Gutmann and Dennis F. Thompson's definition captures the elements that are found in most conceptions of deliberative democracy. They define it as \"a form of government in which free and equal citizens and their representatives justify decisions in a process in which they give one another reasons that are mutually acceptable and generally accessible, with the aim of reaching decisions that are binding on all at present but open to challenge in the future\".\n\nThey state that deliberative democracy has four requirements, which refer to the kind of reasons that citizens and their representatives are expected to give to one another:\n\nA claimed strength of deliberative democratic models is that they are more easily able to incorporate scientific opinion and base policy on outputs of ongoing research, because:\n\nAccording to proponents such as James Fearon, another strength of deliberative democratic models is that they tend, more than any other model, to generate ideal conditions of impartiality, rationality and knowledge of the relevant facts. The more these conditions are fulfilled, the greater the likelihood that the decisions reached are morally correct. Deliberative democracy takes on the role of an \"epistemic democracy\" in this way, as it thus has an \"epistemic\" value: it allows participants to deduce what is morally correct. This view has been prominently held by Carlos Nino.\n\nStudies by James Fishkin and others have found that deliberative democracy tends to produce outcomes which are superior to those in other forms of democracy. Deliberative democracy produces less partisanship and more sympathy with opposing views; more respect for evidence-based reasoning rather than opinion; a greater commitment to the decisions taken by those involved; and a greater chance for widely shared consensus to emerge, thus promoting social cohesion between people from different backgrounds. Fishkin cites extensive empirical support for the increase in public spiritedness that is often caused by participation in deliberation, and says theoretical support can be traced back to foundational democratic thinkers such as John Stuart Mill and Alexis de Tocqueville. Former diplomat Carne Ross writes that in 2011 that the debates arising from deliberative democracy are also much more civil, collaborative, and evidence-based than the debates in traditional town hall meetings or in internet forums. For Ross, the key reason for this is that in deliberative democracy citizens are empowered by knowledge that their debates will have a measurable impact on society.\n\nA claimed failure of most theories of deliberative democracy is that they do not address the problems of voting. James Fishkin's 1991 work, \"Democracy and Deliberation\", introduced a way to apply the theory of deliberative democracy to real-world decision making, by way of what he calls the deliberative opinion poll. In the deliberative opinion poll, a statistically representative sample of the nation or a community is gathered to discuss an issue in conditions that further deliberation. The group is then polled, and the results of the poll and the actual deliberation can be used both as a recommending force and in certain circumstances, to replace a vote. Dozens of deliberative opinion polls have been conducted across the United States since his book was published.\n\nThe political philosopher Charles Blattberg has criticized deliberative democracy on four grounds: (i) the rules for deliberation that deliberative theorists affirm interfere with, rather than facilitate, good practical reasoning; (ii) deliberative democracy is ideologically biased in favor of liberalism as well as republican over parliamentary democratic systems; (iii) deliberative democrats assert a too-sharp division between just and rational deliberation on the one hand and self-interested and coercive bargaining or negotiation on the other; and (iv) deliberative democrats encourage an adversarial relationship between state and society, one that undermines solidarity between citizens.\n\nA criticism of deliberation is that potentially it allows those most skilled in rhetoric to sway the decision in their favour. This criticism has been made since deliberative democracy first arose in Ancient Athens.\n\nConsensus-based decision making similar to deliberative democracy is characteristic of the hunter gather band societies thought to predominate in pre-historical times. As some of these societies became more complex with developments like division of labour, community-based decision making was displaced by various forms of authoritarian rule. The first example of democracy arose in Greece as Athenian democracy during the sixth century BC. Athenian democracy was both \"deliberative\" and largely \"direct\": some decisions were made by representatives but most were made by ″the people″ directly. Athenian democracy came to an end in 322BC. When democracy was revived as a political system about 2000 years later, decisions were made by representatives rather than directly by the people. In a sense, this revived version was deliberative from its beginnings; for example, in 1774 Edmund Burke made a famous speech where he called Great Britain's parliament a deliberative assembly. Similarly, the Founding Fathers of the United States considered deliberation an essential part of the government they created in the late 18th century.\n\nThe deliberative element of democracy was not widely studied by academics until the late 20th century. Although some of the seminal work was done in the 1970s and 80s, it was only in 1990 that deliberative democracy began to attract substantial attention from political scientists. According to Professor John Dryzek, early work on Deliberative Democracy was part of efforts to develop a theory of Democratic legitimacy. Theorists such as Carne Ross advocate deliberative democracy as a complete alternative to representative democracy. The more common view, held by contributors such as James Fishkin, is that direct deliberative democracy can be complementary to traditional representative democracy. Since 1994, hundreds of implementations of direct deliberative democracy have taken place throughout the world. For example, lay citizens have used deliberative democracy to determine local budget allocations in various cities and to undertake major public projects, such as the rebuilding of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.\n\nDeliberative democracy recognizes a conflict of interest between the citizen participating, those affected or victimized by the process being undertaken, and the group-entity that organizes the decision. Thus it usually involves an extensive outreach effort to include marginalized, isolated, ignored groups in decisions, and to extensively document dissent, grounds for dissent, and future predictions of consequences of actions. It focuses as much on the process as the results. In this form it is a complete theory of civics.\n\nOn the other hand, many practitioners of deliberative democracy attempt to be as neutral and open-ended as possible, inviting (or even randomly selecting) people who represent a wide range of views and providing them with balanced materials to guide their discussions. Examples include National Issues Forums, Choices for the 21st Century, study circles, deliberative opinion polls, the Citizens' Initiative Review, and the 21st-century town meetings convened by AmericaSpeaks, among others. In these cases, deliberative democracy is not connected to left-wing politics but is intended to create a conversation among people of different philosophies and beliefs.\n\nIn Canada, there have been two prominent applications of deliberative democratic models. In 2004, the British Columbia Citizens' Assembly on Electoral Reform convened a policy jury to consider alternatives to the first-past-the-post electoral systems. In 2007, the Ontario Citizens' Assembly on Electoral Reform convened to consider alternative electoral systems in that province. Similarly, three of Ontario's Local Health Integration Networks (LHIN) have referred their budget priorities to a policy jury for advice and refinement.\n\nThe Green Party of the United States refers to its particular proposals for grassroots democracy and electoral reform by this name. Although not always the case, participation in deliberation has often been found to shift participants opinions in favour of Green positions, and can even cause a favourable change of voting intention. For example, with Europolis 2009, at the time one of the largest deliberative assemblies ever held, which set out to assess the public's view on a wide range of issues and included representatives from all 27 EU member nations, the share of citizens intending to vote for the Greens increased from 8% to 18%.\n\nAccording to Professor Stephen Tierney, perhaps the earliest notable example of academic interest in the deliberative aspects of democracy occurred in John Rawls 1971 work \"A Theory of Justice\".\n\nJoseph M. Bessette coined the term \"deliberative democracy\" in his 1980 work \"Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government\", and went on to elaborate and defend the notion in \"The Mild Voice of Reason\" (1994). Others contributing to the notion of deliberative democracy include Carlos Nino, Jon Elster, Roberto Gargarella, John Gastil, Jürgen Habermas, David Held, Joshua Cohen, John Rawls, Amy Gutmann, Noëlle McAfee, John Dryzek, Rense Bos, James S. Fishkin, Jane Mansbridge, Jose Luis Marti, Dennis Thompson, Benny Hjern, Hal Koch, Seyla Benhabib, Ethan Leib, Charles Sabel, Jeffrey K. Tulis, David Estlund, Mariah Zeisberg, Jeffrey L. McNairn, Iris Marion Young and Robert B. Talisse.\n\nAlthough political theorists took the lead in the study of deliberative democracy, political scientists have in recent years begun to investigate its processes. One of the main challenges currently is to discover more about the actual conditions under which the ideals of deliberative democracy are more or less likely to be realized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31140", "title": "Divine Comedy", "text": "Divine Comedy\n\nThe Divine Comedy ( ) is an Italian long narrative poem by Dante Alighieri, begun c. 1308 and completed in 1320, a year before his death in 1321. It is widely considered to be the preeminent work in Italian literature and one of the greatest works of world literature. The poem's imaginative vision of the afterlife is representative of the medieval world-view as it had developed in the Western Church by the 14th century. It helped establish the Tuscan language, in which it is written (also in most present-day Italian-market editions), as the standardized Italian language. It is divided into three parts: \"Inferno\", \"Purgatorio\", and \"Paradiso\".\n\nThe narrative describes Dante's travels through Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise or Heaven, while allegorically the poem represents the soul's journey towards God. Dante draws on medieval Christian theology and philosophy, especially Thomistic philosophy and the \"Summa Theologica\" of Thomas Aquinas. Consequently, the \"Divine Comedy\" has been called \"the \"Summa\" in verse\". In Dante's work, Virgil is presented as human reason and Beatrice is presented as divine knowledge.\n\nThe work was originally simply titled Comedia (; so also in the first printed edition, published in 1472), Tuscan for \"Comedy\", later adjusted to the modern Italian . The adjective was added by Giovanni Boccaccio, and the first edition to name the poem \"Divina Comedia\" in the title was that of the Venetian humanist Lodovico Dolce, published in 1555 by Gabriele Giolito de' Ferrari.\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" is composed of 14,233 lines that are divided into three \"cantiche\" (singular \"cantica\") – \"Inferno\" (Hell), \"Purgatorio\" (Purgatory), and \"Paradiso\" (Paradise) – each consisting of 33 cantos (Italian plural \"canti\"). An initial canto, serving as an introduction to the poem and generally considered to be part of the first \"cantica\", brings the total number of cantos to 100. It is generally accepted, however, that the first two cantos serve as a unitary prologue to the entire epic, and that the opening two cantos of each \"cantica\" serve as prologues to each of the three \"cantiche\".\n\nThe number \"three\" is prominent in the work, represented in part by the number of \"cantiche\" and their lengths. Additionally, the verse scheme used, \"terza rima\", is hendecasyllabic (lines of eleven syllables), with the lines composing tercets according to the rhyme scheme \"aba, bcb, cdc, ded, ...\".\n\nWritten in the first person, the poem tells of Dante's journey through the three realms of the dead, lasting from the night before Good Friday to the Wednesday after Easter in the spring of 1300. The Roman poet Virgil guides him through Hell and Purgatory; Beatrice, Dante's ideal woman, guides him through Heaven. Beatrice was a Florentine woman whom he had met in childhood and admired from afar in the mode of the then-fashionable courtly love tradition, which is highlighted in Dante's earlier work \"La Vita Nuova\".\n\nThe structure of the three realms follows a common numerical pattern of 9 plus 1, for a total of 10: 9 circles of the Inferno, followed by Lucifer contained at its bottom; 9 rings of Mount Purgatory, followed by the Garden of Eden crowning its summit; and the 9 celestial bodies of Paradiso, followed by the Empyrean containing the very essence of God. Within each group of 9, 7 elements correspond to a specific moral scheme, subdivided into three subcategories, while 2 others of greater particularity are added to total nine. For example, the seven deadly sins of the Catholic Church that are cleansed in Purgatory are joined by special realms for the Late repentant and the excommunicated by the church. The core seven sins within Purgatory correspond to a moral scheme of love perverted, subdivided into three groups corresponding to excessive love (Lust, Gluttony, Greed), deficient love (Sloth), and malicious love (Wrath, Envy, Pride).\n\nIn central Italy's political struggle between Guelphs and Ghibellines, Dante was part of the Guelphs, who in general favored the Papacy over the Holy Roman Emperor. Florence's Guelphs split into factions around 1300—the White Guelphs and the Black Guelphs. Dante was among the White Guelphs who were exiled in 1302 by the Lord-Mayor Cante de' Gabrielli di Gubbio, after troops under Charles of Valois entered the city, at the request of Pope Boniface VIII, who supported the Black Guelphs. This exile, which lasted the rest of Dante's life, shows its influence in many parts of the \"Comedy,\" from prophecies of Dante's exile to Dante's views of politics, to the eternal damnation of some of his opponents.\n\nThe last word in each of the three \"cantiche\" is \"stelle\" (\"stars\").\n\nThe poem begins on the night before Good Friday in the year 1300, \"halfway along our life's path\" (\"Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita\"). Dante is thirty-five years old, half of the biblical lifespan of 70 (Psalms 89:10, Vulgate), lost in a dark wood (understood as sin), assailed by beasts (a lion, a leopard, and a she-wolf) he cannot evade and unable to find the \"straight way\" (\"diritta via\") – also translatable as \"right way\" – to salvation (symbolized by the sun behind the mountain). Conscious that he is ruining himself and that he is falling into a \"low place\" (\"basso loco\") where the sun is silent (\"'l sol tace\"), Dante is at last rescued by Virgil, and the two of them begin their journey to the underworld. Each sin's punishment in \"Inferno\" is a \"contrapasso\", a symbolic instance of poetic justice; for example, in Canto XX, fortune-tellers and soothsayers must walk with their heads on backwards, unable to see what is ahead, because that was what they had tried to do in life:\n\nAllegorically, the \"Inferno\" represents the Christian soul seeing sin for what it really is, and the three beasts represent three types of sin: the self-indulgent, the violent, and the malicious. These three types of sin also provide the three main divisions of Dante's Hell: Upper Hell, outside the city of Dis, for the four sins of indulgence (lust, gluttony, avarice, anger); Circle 7 for the sins of violence; and Circles 8 and 9 for the sins of malice (fraud and treachery). Added to these are two unlike categories that are specifically spiritual: Limbo, in Circle 1, contains the virtuous pagans who were not sinful but were ignorant of Christ, and Circle 6 contains the heretics who contradicted the doctrine and confused the spirit of Christ. The circles number 9, with the addition of Satan completing the structure of 9 + 1 = 10.\n\nHaving survived the depths of Hell, Dante and Virgil ascend out of the undergloom to the Mountain of Purgatory on the far side of the world. The Mountain is on an island, the only land in the Southern Hemisphere, created by the displacement of rock which resulted when Satan's fall created Hell (which Dante portrays as existing underneath Jerusalem). The mountain has seven terraces, corresponding to the seven deadly sins or \"seven roots of sinfulness.\" The classification of sin here is more psychological than that of the \"Inferno\", being based on motives, rather than actions. It is also drawn primarily from Christian theology, rather than from classical sources. However, Dante's illustrative examples of sin and virtue draw on classical sources as well as on the Bible and on contemporary events.\n\nLove, a theme throughout the \"Divine Comedy\", is particularly important for the framing of sin on the Mountain of Purgatory. While the love that flows from God is pure, it can become sinful as it flows through humanity. Humans can sin by using love towards improper or malicious ends (Wrath, Envy, Pride), or using it to proper ends but with love that is either not strong enough (Sloth) or love that is too strong (Lust, Gluttony, Greed). Below the seven purges of the soul is the Ante-Purgatory, containing the Excommunicated from the church and the Late repentant who died, often violently, before receiving rites. Thus the total comes to nine, with the addition of the Garden of Eden at the summit, equaling ten. \n\nAllegorically, the \"Purgatorio\" represents the Christian life. Christian souls arrive escorted by an angel, singing \"In exitu Israel de Aegypto\". In his \"Letter to Cangrande\", Dante explains that this reference to Israel leaving Egypt refers both to the redemption of Christ and to \"the conversion of the soul from the sorrow and misery of sin to the state of grace.\" Appropriately, therefore, it is Easter Sunday when Dante and Virgil arrive.\n\nThe \"Purgatorio\" is notable for demonstrating the medieval knowledge of a spherical Earth. During the poem, Dante discusses the different stars visible in the southern hemisphere, the altered position of the sun, and the various timezones of the Earth. At this stage it is, Dante says, sunset at Jerusalem, midnight on the River Ganges, and sunrise in Purgatory.\n\nAfter an initial ascension, Beatrice guides Dante through the nine celestial spheres of Heaven. These are concentric and spherical, as in Aristotelian and Ptolemaic cosmology. While the structures of the \"Inferno\" and \"Purgatorio\" were based on different classifications of sin, the structure of the \"Paradiso\" is based on the four cardinal virtues and the three theological virtues.\n\nThe first seven spheres of Heaven deal solely with the cardinal virtues of Prudence, Fortitude, Justice and Temperance. The first three describe a deficiency of one of the cardinal virtues – the Moon, containing the inconstant, whose vows to God waned as the moon and thus lack fortitude; Mercury, containing the ambitious, who were virtuous for glory and thus lacked justice; and Venus, containing the lovers, whose love was directed towards another than God and thus lacked Temperance. The final four incidentally are positive examples of the cardinal virtues, all led on by the Sun, containing the prudent, whose wisdom lighted the way for the other virtues, to which the others are bound (constituting a category on its own). Mars contains the men of fortitude who died in the cause of Christianity; Jupiter contains the kings of Justice; and Saturn contains the temperate, the monks who abided by the contemplative lifestyle. The seven subdivided into three are raised further by two more categories: the eighth sphere of the fixed stars that contain those who achieved the theological virtues of faith, hope and love, and represent the Church Triumphant – the total perfection of humanity, cleansed of all the sins and carrying all the virtues of heaven; and the ninth circle, or Primum Mobile (corresponding to the Geocentricism of Medieval astronomy), which contains the angels, creatures never poisoned by original sin. Topping them all is the Empyrean, which contains the essence of God, completing the 9-fold division to 10.\n\nDante meets and converses with several great saints of the Church, including Thomas Aquinas, Bonaventure, Saint Peter, and St. John. The \"Paradiso\" is consequently more theological in nature than the \"Inferno\" and the \"Purgatorio\". However, Dante admits that the vision of heaven he receives is merely the one his human eyes permit him to see, and thus the vision of heaven found in the Cantos is Dante's personal vision.\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" finishes with Dante seeing the Triune God. In a flash of understanding that he cannot express, Dante finally understands the mystery of Christ's divinity and humanity, and his soul becomes aligned with God's love:\n\nAccording to the Italian Dante Society, no original manuscript written by Dante has survived, although there are many manuscript copies from the 14th and 15th centuries – some 800 are listed on their site.\n\nThe first printed edition was published in Foligno, Italy, by Johann Numeister and Evangelista Angelini da Trevi on 1472. Of the 300 copies printed, fourteen still survive. The original printing press is on display in the \"Oratorio della Nunziatella\" in Foligno.\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" can be described simply as an allegory: each canto, and the episodes therein, can contain many alternative meanings. Dante's allegory, however, is more complex, and, in explaining how to read the poem – see the \"Letter to Cangrande\" – he outlines other levels of meaning besides the allegory: the historical, the moral, the literal, and the anagogical.\n\nThe structure of the poem is also quite complex, with mathematical and numerological patterns distributed throughout the work, particularly threes and nines, which are related to the Holy Trinity. The poem is often lauded for its particularly human qualities: Dante's skillful delineation of the characters he encounters in Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise; his bitter denunciations of Florentine and Italian politics; and his powerful poetic imagination. Dante's use of real characters, according to Dorothy Sayers in her introduction to her translation of the \"Inferno\", allows Dante the freedom of not having to involve the reader in description, and allows him to \"[make] room in his poem for the discussion of a great many subjects of the utmost importance, thus widening its range and increasing its variety.\"\n\nDante called the poem \"Comedy\" (the adjective \"Divine\" was added later, in the 16th century) because poems in the ancient world were classified as High (\"Tragedy\") or Low (\"Comedy\"). Low poems had happy endings and were written in everyday language, whereas High poems treated more serious matters and were written in an elevated style. Dante was one of the first in the Middle Ages to write of a serious subject, the Redemption of humanity, in the low and \"vulgar\" Italian language and not the Latin one might expect for such a serious topic. Boccaccio's account that an early version of the poem was begun by Dante in Latin is still controversial.\n\nAlthough the \"Divine Comedy\" is primarily a religious poem, discussing sin, virtue, and theology, Dante also discusses several elements of the science of his day (this mixture of science with poetry has received both praise and blame over the centuries). The \"Purgatorio\" repeatedly refers to the implications of a spherical Earth, such as the different stars visible in the southern hemisphere, the altered position of the sun, and the various timezones of the Earth. For example, at sunset in Purgatory it is midnight at the Ebro, dawn in Jerusalem, and noon on the River Ganges:\n\nDante travels through the centre of the Earth in the \"Inferno\", and comments on the resulting change in the direction of gravity in Canto XXXIV (lines 76–120). A little earlier (XXXIII, 102–105), he queries the existence of wind in the frozen inner circle of hell, since it has no temperature differentials.\n\nInevitably, given its setting, the \"Paradiso\" discusses astronomy extensively, but in the Ptolemaic sense. The \"Paradiso\" also discusses the importance of the experimental method in science, with a detailed example in lines 94–105 of Canto II:\n\nA briefer example occurs in Canto XV of the \"Purgatorio\" (lines 16–21), where Dante points out that both theory and experiment confirm that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection. Other references to science in the \"Paradiso\" include descriptions of clockwork in Canto XXIV (lines 13–18), and Thales' theorem about triangles in Canto XIII (lines 101–102).\n\nGalileo Galilei is known to have lectured on the \"Inferno\", and it has been suggested that the poem may have influenced some of Galileo's own ideas regarding mechanics.\n\nIn 1919, Miguel Asín Palacios, a Spanish scholar and a Catholic priest, published \"La Escatología musulmana en la Divina Comedia\" (\"Islamic Eschatology in the Divine Comedy\"), an account of parallels between early Islamic philosophy and the \"Divine Comedy\". Palacios argued that Dante derived many features of and episodes about the hereafter from the spiritual writings of Ibn Arabi and from the Isra and Mi'raj or night journey of Muhammad to heaven. The latter is described in the \"ahadith\" and the \"Kitab al Miraj\" (translated into Latin in 1264 or shortly before as \"Liber Scalae Machometi\", \"The Book of Muhammad's Ladder\"), and has significant similarities to the \"Paradiso\", such as a sevenfold division of Paradise, although this is not unique to the \"Kitab al Miraj\" or Islamic cosmology.\n\nSome \"superficial similarities\" of the \"Divine Comedy\" to the \"Resalat Al-Ghufran\" or \"Epistle of Forgiveness\" of Al-Ma'arri have also been mentioned in this debate. The \"Resalat Al-Ghufran\" describes the journey of the poet in the realms of the afterlife and includes dialogue with people in Heaven and Hell, although, unlike the \"Kitab al Miraj\", there is little description of these locations, and it is unlikely that Dante borrowed from this work.\n\nDante did, however, live in a Europe of substantial literary and philosophical contact with the Muslim world, encouraged by such factors as Averroism (\"Averrois, che'l gran comento feo\" Commedia, Inferno, IV, 144, meaning \"Averrois, who wrote the great comment\") and the patronage of Alfonso X of Castile. Of the twelve wise men Dante meets in Canto X of the \"Paradiso\", Thomas Aquinas and, even more so, Siger of Brabant were strongly influenced by Arabic commentators on Aristotle. Medieval Christian mysticism also shared the Neoplatonic influence of Sufis such as Ibn Arabi. Philosopher Frederick Copleston argued in 1950 that Dante's respectful treatment of Averroes, Avicenna, and Siger of Brabant indicates his acknowledgement of a \"considerable debt\" to Islamic philosophy.\n\nAlthough this philosophical influence is generally acknowledged, many scholars have not been satisfied that Dante was influenced by the \"Kitab al Miraj\". The 20th century Orientalist expressed skepticism regarding the claimed similarities, and the lack of evidence of a vehicle through which it could have been transmitted to Dante. Even so, while dismissing the probability of some influences posited in Palacios' work, Gabrieli conceded that it was \"at least possible, if not probable, that Dante may have known the \"Liber Scalae\" and have taken from it certain images and concepts of Muslim eschatology\". Shortly before her death, the Italian philologist pointed out that, during his stay at the court of Alfonso X, Dante's mentor Brunetto Latini met Bonaventura de Siena, a Tuscan who had translated the \"Kitab al Miraj\" from Arabic into Latin. Corti speculates that Brunetto may have provided a copy of that work to Dante. René Guénon, a Sufi convert and scholar of Ibn Arabi, rejected in \"The Esoterism of Dante\" the theory of his influence (direct or indirect) on Dante. Palacios' theory that Dante was influenced by Ibn Arabi was satirized by the Turkish academic Orhan Pamuk in his novel \"The Black Book\".\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" was not always as well-regarded as it is today. Although recognized as a masterpiece in the centuries immediately following its publication, the work was largely ignored during the Enlightenment, with some notable exceptions such as Vittorio Alfieri; Antoine de Rivarol, who translated the \"Inferno\" into French; and Giambattista Vico, who in the \"Scienza nuova\" and in the \"Giudizio su Dante\" inaugurated what would later become the romantic reappraisal of Dante, juxtaposing him to Homer. The \"Comedy\" was \"rediscovered\" in the English-speaking world by William Blake – who illustrated several passages of the epic – and the romantic writers of the 19th century. Later authors such as T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, Samuel Beckett, C. S. Lewis and James Joyce have drawn on it for inspiration. The poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was its first American translator, and modern poets, including Seamus Heaney, Robert Pinsky, John Ciardi, W. S. Merwin, and Stanley Lombardo, have also produced translations of all or parts of the book. In Russia, beyond Pushkin's translation of a few tercets, Osip Mandelstam's late poetry has been said to bear the mark of a \"tormented meditation\" on the \"Comedy\". In 1934, Mandelstam gave a modern reading of the poem in his labyrinthine \"Conversation on Dante\". In T. S. Eliot's estimation, \"Dante and Shakespeare divide the world between them. There is no third.\" For Jorge Luis Borges the \"Divine Comedy\" was \"the best book literature has achieved\".\n\nNew English translations of the \"Divine Comedy\" continue to be published regularly. Notable English translations of the complete poem include the following.\n\nA number of other translators, such as Robert Pinsky, have translated the \"Inferno\" only.\n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" has been a source of inspiration for countless artists for almost seven centuries. There are many references to Dante's work in literature. In music, Franz Liszt was one of many composers to write works based on the \"Divine Comedy\". In sculpture, the work of Auguste Rodin includes themes from Dante, and many visual artists have illustrated Dante's work, as shown by the examples above. There have also been many references to the \"Divine Comedy\" in cinema and computer games.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5901233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5901233", "title": "Eighteen Lesser Texts", "text": "Eighteen Lesser Texts\n\nThe Eighteen Lesser Texts, known as the Patiṉeṇkīḻkaṇakku () in the literature, is a collection of eighteen poetic works mostly created during the 'post Sangam period' (between 100 - 500 CE). The poems of this collection differ from the earlier works of the Eighteen Greater Texts (\"Patiṉeṇmēlkaṇakku\"), which are the oldest surviving Tamil poetry, in that the poems are written in the venpa meter and are relatively short in length. Naladiyar, having sung by 400 poets, is the only anthology in this collection. Each of the remaining works of the Eighteen Lesser Texts is sung by a single poet. Most of the books deal with morals and ethics.\n\nThe Eighteen Lesser Texts contains the following books:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40585023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40585023", "title": "Emberá", "text": "Emberá\n\nThe Emberá , also known in the historical literature as the \"Chocó\" or \"Katío\" Indians are an indigenous people of Panama and Colombia. In the Emberá language, the word \"ẽberá\" can be used to mean person, man, or indigenous person, depending on the context in which it is used. There are approximately 33,000 people living in Panama and 50,000 in Colombia who identify as Emberá.\n\nThe Emberá language, is not a single language but a group of mutually-intelligible languages spoken throughout Panamá and Colombia. Along with Wounmeu, they are the only extant members of the Chocó language family and not known to be related to any other language family of Central or South America, although in the past relationships have been proposed with the Carib, Arawak, and Chibchan language families.\n\nAn established Emberá alphabet has been officially recognized by the government of Panama, consisting of:\n\nTo date, there have been very few books published in the Emberá language. These are mostly educational materials produced by Panama's education ministry (MEDUCA) or by Christian missionaries. The most significant of these to date is a Bible translation containing the New Testament and parts of the Old Testament titled Ãcõrẽ Bedea, \"the word of God.\" The following is an excerpt from the book of Matthew:\nWords from the Emberá language are marked in this article in parentheses and italicized. For example, woman \"(wẽra)\" or shaman \"(jaibaná)\".\n\nThe Emberá people mostly live in the Chocó department of western Colombia and in Panama. For the Panamanian Emberá, the Chocó and its river systems remain their ancestral homelands, and the different dialects of the Emberá language still mostly correspond to different parts of that area and its river systems.\n\nIn the late 1700s, the Emberá began migrating from the Choco region to modern-day Colombia to what is currently the Darién province of Panama, which had been home to the Tule or Kuna people at the time of European contact. This migration was prompted by the Spanish, and took the form of a conflict between the Emberá and the kuna, moving the latter into the lands along the Caribbean coast which now form the Comarca Guna Yala and San Blas Islands. The Darién has subsequently become recognized as the homelands of the Emberá in Panama, though they had also settled as far west as Lake Gatún and the riverine areas of what would become the Canal Zone.\n\nDuring the 19th century, during which it was part of the Gran Republica de Colombia, the Darién was inhabited almost exclusively by the indigenous Emberá and Guna peoples along with the descendants of escaped African slaves, known as \"darienitas\" or \"libres\". Typically, \"darienitas\" settled in port towns at the mouths of rivers while the Emberá would live along the rivers downstream. This historical trend is still reflected in the current regional demographics; many port towns have retained their \"darienita\" identity, such as La Palma, Yaviza and Garachine, while many contemporary Emberá towns are found downstream along the rivers.\nPanama seceded from the Republic of Colombia, achieving its independence in 1903. However, Eastern Panama still remained isolated and undeveloped during this time. While trade with the \"darienitas\" increased the access that the Emberá had to resources such as off-board motors, kerosene lamps, hunting rifles, and other modern commodities which would change their daily lives, major changes started taking place in the 1950s and 1960s. This time period observed the influence of missionaries and the involvement of the revolutionary government of Omar Torrijos, who actively sought to integrate the indigenous population of Darién into Panamanian society by encouraging them to settle into communities for access to government-sponsored services such as schools and health centers. This initiated the transition of the Emberá people, who until that time had lived dispersed in small family units throughout the rainforest, into settled communities.\n\nThe Darién province changed dramatically with the completion of the Pan-American highway into the province as far as Yaviza. Before the creation of the highway, the dominant if not exclusive mode of trade and transportation between Panama City and the Darién was by boat. The construction of this highway through a previously untraversable terrain had a number of significant effects. Latino farmers from the interior of the country, often called \"interioranos,\" began to migrate into the Darién in large numbers, effecting demographic shifts and an unprecedented scale of logging and deforestation for the purpose of establishing cattle ranches. It also shifted the economic and political centers of the province from the coastal \"darienita\" cities to the new towns being established along the highway by these Latino settlers.\n\nHistorically, the Emberá lived in a dispersed settlement pattern along the river systems of Panamá and Colombia. Since the 1960s, the majority of Emberá have transitioned to settled communities and urban areas. Herlihy describes the pre-1950's settlement pattern:\nThe Emberá began forming the first small villages in the 1950s, in what has been described as a \"slow, almost evolutionary process.\" Economic considerations, Western influence, and the presence of religious missionaries were influential factors in the first settlements of Emberá communities. Accounts also exist of a foreigner known by his nickname \"Perú,\" a mysterious and legendary figure who tried to convince the Emberá to settle into colonies.\n\nBy the late 1960s, the government of Omar Torrijos was promoting the settlement of the Darién Emberá into communities; the first formal establishment of an Emberá town was in 1963 along the Rio Balsas river. In 1985, it was estimated that 25 percent of Emberá people in Panamá still lived according to the traditional dispersed settlement pattern. However, life in settled communities is now considered the norm, or \"typical\" of most Emberá.\n\nIn addition to these settled communities, many Emberá now also live in urban areas. According to the 2010 Panamanian National Census, over one third of Panamanian Emberá people live in the central province of Panamá, and over 25% of the total Panamanian Emberá population reside in urban districts of Panama City.\n\nThe Emberá are the only indigenous tribe in Latin America known to practise FGM. The tradition was extremely secretive and taboo until a 2007 incident, in which a girl died as a result of FGM. The incident caused much controversy, raised awareness and stimulated debate about ending the practice altogether. In 2015, it was reported that of the approximately 250,000 members of the tribe, 25,000 (10%) had decided to discontinue female genital mutilation, with a community leader saying they hoped to eradicate it by 2030.\n\nThe Emberá are a riverine people, historically building their houses along the banks of rivers. Although now most all Emberá people live in villages, towns, or urban centers, many established Emberá communities are still found along riverbanks. The designated autonomous region, the Comarca Emberá-Wounaan, is split up into two territories surrounding two of the Darién's major river systems, the Sambú and Chucunaque. The word for river in both the Emberá and Wounaan languages is \"dó\", noticeable in the names of many of the rivers and towns in the Chocó department of Colombia, such as the Baudó river, as well as the capital of the department itself, Quibdó.\n\nFish \"(bedá)\" are an important staple of the Emberá diet along with plantains \"(patá)\", and rivers play a central role in daily life for fishing, bathing, transport, and many domestic chores. Boats have also played important roles in Emberá tradition and cosmology. The craft of constructing dugout canoes \"(hampá)\" was historically a very significant skill for Emberá men, at times serving as a rite of passage or prerequisite for marriage according to oral history. Ethnographic records detail the ways in which boats take on an anthropomorphic character in the Emberá language and philosophy, and traditionally people were even buried in canoes. Anthropologists have written about how central rivers are to the worldview of both the Emberá and the Wounaan, a closely related group of people who, while having a distinct history and belief system from the Emberá, share much with them linguistically, historically, and culturally.\nIn addition to changes in settlement patterns, the form of typical Emberá housing is actively going through a period of change. A traditional Emberá house can be described as an open-air dwelling raised 6–12 feet off the ground on stilts with thatched roofing made from palm leaves (often, but not exclusively, \"Sabal mauritiiformis\") and flooring made from the bark of the \"jira\" palm \"(épa)\". These houses were typically round in shape and large enough to hold members of an extended family group. Logs with notches cut in them (\"domé\") were used as ladders to enter/exit the house, and could be turned with the notches facing inwards to signal that people were busy, not home, or to keep animals from climbing into the house. The space under the house would be used as a dry space to carry out domestic chores or keep animals.\n\nContemporary Emberá housing style often employs many of the traditional materials and styles. However, they may often be smaller due to a comparatively smaller number of family members per house. Wooden boards often replace the \"jira\" bark as flooring, and durable aluminum roofing in place of palm leaves. Due to living in settled communities with other unrelated people, walls have become more common for added privacy, whereas walls were historically very uncommon. Propane stoves often replace or complement the traditional cooking fire. Some contemporary Emberá houses have both a larger structure of wooden floors and walls with metal roofing on a cement foundation, with an attached, more traditional thatched-roof structure for use as a kitchen. Many now live in cinder-block houses in the typical Panamanian style, if they have the access to the resources and infrastructure to rent or build one.\n\nHistorically, the Emberá people were described as having a fundamentally egalitarian social and political organization:\n\nPart of Omar Torrijos's efforts to organize the indigenous people of the Darién was through the establishment of the first National Indian Congress in 1968. The Emberá were encouraged to self-organize and form political leadership in the same way the Guna people had done, and a Guna chief was even appointed to aid them in the process. Throughout the 1970s, more and more Emberá families continued settling into communities and towns. By 1980, discussions were taking place about the establishment of a \"comarca indigena\", or autonomous territory, for the Emberá within the Darién province.\n\nin November 1983, the National Assembly of Panama ratified the \"ley 22\", establishing the Comarca Emberá-Wounaan, a territory of 4383.5 km² encompassing two non-contiguous districts, Sambú and Cemaco, whose capital is the town of Unión Chocó. The law established the territory under a collective land title of the Emberá and Wounaan peoples. The leadership structure, officially known as the \"Congreso General Emberá Wounaan de la Comarca,\" has a \"cacique general\" as its head. In addition, each district has a regional \"cacique,\" and individuals communities also elect local \"caciques\" as their representatives at the annual General Congress of the Comarcá. The establishment of the Comarca conferred on the indigenous population legal protection of their land from the encroachment of Latino cattle-ranchers, as well as a certain degree of self-governance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1614708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1614708", "title": "Fast-moving consumer goods", "text": "Fast-moving consumer goods\n\nFast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) or Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) are products that are sold quickly and at a relatively low cost. Examples include non-durable goods such as packaged foods, beverages, toiletries, over-the-counter drugs, and other consumables. \n\nMany fast moving consumer goods have a short shelf life, either as a result of high consumer demand or as the result of fast deterioration. Some FMCG, such as meats, fruits, vegetables, dairy products, and baked goods are highly perishable. Other goods, such as pre-packaged foods, soft drinks, candies, and toiletries have high turnover rates. Sales are sometimes influenced by holiday and/or seasonal periods.\n\nPackaging is critical for FMCG. Logistics and distribution systems often require secondary and tertiary packaging to maximize efficiency. Unit or primary packaging protects products and shelf life while providing product information to consumers.\n\nThe profit margin on FMCG products can be relatively small, but they are generally sold in large quantities; thus, the cumulative profit on such products can be substantial. FMCG is a classic low margin and high volume business. According to BASES, 84% of fast-moving consumer goods professionals are under more pressure to quickly bring new products to the market than they were five or ten years ago. With this in mind, 47% of those surveyed confessed that product testing suffers most when deadlines are accelerated. The most innovative FMCG companies are now adopting agile design Agile Marketing and development principles which allow them to remain nimble in response to market demand and customer feedback.\n\nThe growth of the internet over the past quarter century and the rise of the brand community phenomenon have contributed greatly to the demand for FMCG. According to the AGOF internet facts, 73% of Germany's population is online. Additionally, 83.7% of internet users claim to use the web to search for information and 68.3% shop online. Vendors use the internet to their advantage to connect with consumers and market their goods, targeting consumers who show high identification with a specific brand or good. Marketers of FMCG have discovered this capability and are using it to build relationships with their customers to understand what they want. \n\nThe following are the main characteristics of FMCGs:\n\nConsumers in rural areas typically purchase goods from nearby towns and villages. Recently, there has been a shift in consumer purchase behavior towards purchasing locally that has prompted the need for better local promotional efforts to generate brand awareness in small towns. FMCGs play a large part in the economy as inelastic products that touch every part of consumer life in one way or another. Businesses that supply FMCGs to a rural community can help provide employment opportunities as well as drive down the cost of such products in those rural areas. For instance, the FMCG sector in India is the 4th largest sector in its economy and generates employment for more than 3 million people in downstream activities.\n\nThe retail market for FMCGs includes businesses in the following International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC) (Revision 3) categories:\n\nSupplier industries for FMCGs include:\n\nFast-moving consumer electronics are typically low-priced generic items with many comparable alternatives offering similar functionality. Examples of consumer electronics include: mobile phones, MP3 players, game players, earphones, headphones, OTG cables, and digital disposable cameras.\n\n"}
{"id": "25373675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25373675", "title": "Great Race (Native American legend)", "text": "Great Race (Native American legend)\n\nThe Great Race is a Native American legend surrounding the Red Racetrack, a ring shaped depression surrounding the interior of the Black Hills. The legend tells the story of when buffalo and man raced each other to establish order in the universe. The stories differ from tribe to tribe but the constant theme is that man established supremacy over the buffalo. This story is also associated with the origins of the Sun Dance and the Medicine Lodge. Taking place in July, Sun Dance is four to eight days of dancing in order to try to connect with the Great Spirit.\n\nThis story relates to the origins concerning the medicine lodge. Told by Fire Wolfe, \"The venerable Suhtai Buffalo and Sun Dance priest.\" The story takes place before the Suhtai and the Tsistsistas became one tribe. In this time buffalo ate human beings. A Suhtai man dreamed that he was shooting at a certain buffalo however his arrow turned away and hit another buffalo standing far away. This dream occurred for three nights. Concerned, the young man spoke to the tribe's elders about his dreams. They responded by telling him that the dreams meant nothing. However, that night the young man had the same dream and the young man knew what he had to do. The next day he woke up early to go hunting. Just like in his dream when he shot at a buffalo his arrow diverted its path and hit another buffalo cow. The young man followed her until sundown but could never catch up with her so he went back to camp.\nThe next morning the young man went out looking for the buffalo cow again and found her standing in front of a tipi but, now she was a beautiful woman. The young man fell in love with her and she bore him a son and he looked exactly like his mother.\n\nOne morning the young man discovered that his wife and child were missing. For four days the young man searched for his family and on the fourth day he came to a high ridge and a herd of buffalo were grazing below. As the young man approached the heard a young buffalo calf came running out to meet him; this buffalo was his son. The young man told his son that he wished to follow them. However his son informed him that the trip was too long and that he would die. Still the young man continued despite his son's warning. A few days later the buffalo decided to put the young man through a test, by seeing if he could identify his son in a group of other buffalo calf. Before the test the young man's son informed him that he would set up various signals so his father could identify him. When the test came the father and son had no problem communicating with each other so the young man passed the test.\n\nThe herd proceeded to carry on after this until a few days later when the young calf again approached his father. The calf's grandfather and grandmother wanted to kill the young man by charging at him. Again the young calf informed his father on how he could defeat them, instructing his father to stay calm and to have a pure heart. The grandfather then charged at the young man but was unable to kill him realizing that the young man had \"a strong heart and great human power\". The grandmother then proceeded to charge but she too realized that he had \"a strong heart and great human power\". Passing another test the herd carried on and so did the young man.\n\nThe young calf then approached his father again informing him that his grandfather was going to challenge him to a race in an attempt to kill the young man. The young calf told his father to take the black stick and not the red one and to run on the inside near the rim rock. He also instructed his father to duck down when his grandfather turned around for it was here that he would be trying to kill him. The race began and the young man ran along the inside of the track like his son instructed. The grandfather then turned around and charged at the young man. The young man ducked when the buffalo charged, and the buffalo ran by the young man off a cliff to his death.\n\nThe animals then proceeded to hold a council and decided to have a great race between man and buffalo. If man won he would eat buffalo and buffalo would no longer eat man. However if buffalo won they would eat man and man would no longer eat buffalo. All birds and animals showed up and painted their bodies the colors that they are now today. The buffalo selected Slim Walking Woman to be their racer \"for she was the fastest and most long winded\". The animals and birds chose their sides and an overwhelming number sided with buffalo. Only swift hawk, crow, magpie, and eagle sided with the young man. The race began and Slim Walking Woman got off to an early lead as magpie flew very high. Many racers passed out from exhaustion. Slim Walking Woman lead the whole race but just as she was about to pass the finish line magpie plunged from the sky passing her right before she crossed the line.\n\nAfter the race the buffalo elders said they must have the medicine lodge. In it \"all will be performed that has happened since the beginning of this great race. On the fourth day of the ceremony it will belong to human beings\". The ceremony gave man the power over buffalo and from then on the Suhtaio considered themselves to be the buffalo people.\n\nThe Lakota were the last native occupants of the Black Hills and had the land seized from them by the United States government in 1877. The Great Race story explains the origin of the Black Hills and the establishment of order in the universe. Lakota associate the Racetrack with gathering sacred stones for the Sundance ceremonies. They believe the race took place at Inyan Kara and occurs before the summer equinox. Normally this story is not associated with the Falling Star stories that originated in the 1930s and 1940s by Nicholas Black Elk. Lakota versions of the story refer specifically to the Black Hills and the Race Track. The Lakota version says that the race was between the \"two-leggeds\" and the \"four-leggeds\" and would determine who would eat who. Lakota also suggest that the race still goes on today as animals from around the world gather in order to reenact the race. Lakotas also believe that the race track was where sundance originated and order in was established.\n\nThe Cheyenne/Suhtai inhabited the Black Hills from 1670–1876, also believing that the Great Race took place on Inyan Kara Mountain. The Cheyenne Great Race myth explains the origins of the Cheyenne Sundance or Medicine Lodge. The Cheyenne tradition of the great race is related to the Suhtai's version. It is unknown if the Cheyenne's associated the great race with a constellation like the Lakota. The story of the Great Race plays an important role in Cheyenne cosmology, in establishing order among living things. In the Cheyenne and Lakota versions the race starts and ends at Buffalo Gap. Other versions of the story refer to the first Sun Dance near Bear Lodge Butte and Sundance Mountain.\n\nDuring the Sundance, the arrow thrust through the piece of meat represents the arrow in the side of the buffalo woman. Both arrow and meat are placed in the Thunder's nest as an offering. The man's child looking like his mother is in accord with the Cheyenne kinship system by which a child belongs to the mother's people. The child became a buffalo calf because the buffalo people were his mother's tribe. Red and black paint used on the rafter beams and center pole of the Medicine Lodge are symbols of the painted sticks using in the great race. During the final dance in the Medicine Lodge, the instructor and pledger dance side by side. While they are dancing, the instructor pushes the pledger against the cottonwood brush surrounding the altar. This represents the attempt of the buffalo grandfather to push the Suhtai over the edge of the cliff. The only part of the buffalo not eaten by the Cheyenne was the sweetbreads (thymus gland) which the Cheyenne call ‘human fat'. This was because the \"buffalo originally ate human beings.\" It is believed that some buffalo that had killed a man were surprised by enemies. They fled, taking some human flesh with them. This fat became internalized in the buffalo, leaving a residue of human flesh in the buffalo's body to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "10436843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436843", "title": "Himeyuri students", "text": "Himeyuri students\n\nThe , sometimes called \"Lily Corps\" in English, was a group of 222 students and 18 teachers of the Okinawa Daiichi Women's High School and Okinawa Shihan Women's School formed into a nursing unit for the Imperial Japanese Army during the Battle of Okinawa in 1945. They were mobilized by the Japanese army on March 23, 1945. Many of the Himeyuri students thought that the Japanese army would defeat the Americans in a matter of days and accordingly brought school supplies to study and get ready to get right back into the classroom.\n\nDuring the nearly 3-month-long battle, the Himeyuri students were on the front lines performing surgery and other difficult duties. Near the end of the battle of Okinawa, many were living in dark caves filled with countless gravely injured and dead soldiers.\n\nOn June 18, 1945, an order of dissolution was given to the unit. Up until the dissolution order was given, only 19 of the students had been killed, but in the early morning of June 19, many of them were killed during an attack by US forces on the Ihara third surgery shelter. In the week following the dissolution order, approximately 80% of the girls and their teachers perished. Eventually, the death toll amounted to 123 out of the original 222 students and 18 teachers. Some committed suicide in various ways because of chastity fears of systematic rape by US soldiers. Some threw themselves off cliffs while others killed themselves with hand grenades given to them by the Japanese soldiers.\n\nThe Himeyuri Monument was built on April 7, 1946 in memory of those who died. Many of those who survived helped build and continue to maintain the facilities. As of 2008, there are still Himeyuri students alive.\n\nThe Himeyuri Peace Museum was modeled after the main school building in which the girls had once studied. The museum has five display chambers displaying photos from the eve of the Battle of Okinawa, the Haebaru Army Field Hospital, portraits of all the young victims who died after the military's retreat to the southernmost tip of the Kyan Peninsula, panels explaining the circumstances under which they died, twenty-eight volumes of testimonials and memoirs by 90 survivors, and a life-sized diorama of Himeyuri Cave. The testimonials bring to life each phase of the battle, as witnessed by the student nurses. Some of the former nurses serve as tour guides at the museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981627", "title": "Hypermodernism (art)", "text": "Hypermodernism (art)\n\nHypermodernism is a cultural, artistic, literary and architectural successor to modernism and postmodernism in which the form (attribute) of an object has no context distinct from its function. Attributes can include shapes, colors, ratios, and even time. Unlike postmodernism and modernism, hypermodernism exists in an era of fault-tolerant technological change and treats extraneous attributes (most conspicuously physical form) as discordant with function. While modernism and post-modernism debate the value of the \"box\" or absolute reference point, hypermodernism focuses on improvising attributes of the box (reference point now an extraneous value rather than correct or incorrect value) so that all of its attributes are non-extraneous; it also excises attributes that are extraneous. Hypermodernism is not a debate over truth or untruth as per modernism/postmodernism; rather it is a debate over what is and is not an extraneous attribute. Synchrony between previously-clashing objects (now attributes) and amorphous self-identity coupled with allusions to a magical existence acknowledge the movement. Some theorists view hypermodernism as a form of resistance to traditional modernism; others as a supersedence of it.\n\nPost-modernism and modernism debated each another in an industrial/physical context and were concerned with the social value of objects themselves. Modernism focused on confining form within the limited function of a 1950s object while 1970's postmodernism focused on freeing form from its limited function (\"there-is-no-box\"). The modern/postmodern oversight of objects as a mediator between attribute and function led to redundant human-context thinking and false conflicts between objects such as ideas.\n\nTechnology has played a definitive role in function catching up to attribute. An example is the touch-screen in which the attribute on the screen (ratio, shape, color, animation) becomes the focus of interaction as opposed to manipulation by an external tool i.e. cellphone keyboard. In the long-term the object ceases to become the middleman between attribute (form) and function.\n\nHypermodernism holds that an object is by definition non-composable toward its attributes; and no one attribute of an object can act as a proxy for the object itself. No whole, or object, is reducible to ONLY its attributes; and the attributes may not be mutually exclusive to the object itself. Furthermore, an object may have extraneous functions independent of its composing attributes (postmodern theory); this potential supra-functionality is a key concern to hypermodernism's attempt to replace objects with attributes. Attributes, while having the functions of an object, are not building blocks toward an object in hypermodernism. No object is by definition hypermodern; however, an object can be more hypermodern or less hypermodern than another object.\n\nHypermodernism displays a deep bias against objects physical and non-physical. It can be described as anti-object; however it is NOT anti-materialistic. Objects are viewed as an extraneous mediator between attribute and function. Over time, hypermodernism employs attributes to perform the functions of objects, and only those extant objects that can adequately convey the properties of its attributes are allowed to survive. Those objects that are irreducible to complete attributes will disappear as in the case of the physical keyboard. Over time, the attribute-function relationship becomes synonymous.\n\nHypermodernism compensates for the tendency of human thought to extract the attributes of an object and assign those same attributes to the functions of the object. Rather than focusing on a debate over \"truth\" or non-truth and other high-context social considerations, hypermodernism focuses on questions of extraneous vs non-extraneous (In design terms, correctness and incorrectness). Hypermodernism emphasizes correctness over completeness in design in order to guard against human intuitive leaps.\n"}
{"id": "196028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196028", "title": "Ket language", "text": "Ket language\n\nThe Ket language, or more specifically \"Imbak\" and formerly known as Yenisei Ostyak , is a Siberian language long thought to be an isolate, the sole surviving language of a Yeniseian language family. It is spoken along the middle Yenisei basin by the Ket people.\n\nThe language is threatened with extinction—the number of ethnic Kets that are native speakers of the language dropped from 1,225 in 1926 to 537 in 1989. According to the UNESCO census, this number has since fallen to 150. There was a 2005 census reporting 485, but it is suspected to be inflated. Another Yeniseian language, Yugh, is believed to have recently become extinct.\n\nAttempts have been made by Soviet scholars to establish a relationship with either Burushaski or the Sino-Tibetan languages, and it frequently forms part of the Dene–Caucasian hypothesis. None of these attempts has been conclusive. Joseph Greenberg proposed a link between Ket and other Yeniseian languages and the Na-Dene language group of North America in his final study of Eurasiatic languages. In February 2008, the linguist Edward Vajda also submitted a paper on the proposed link between Ket with the Na-Dene languages. Now published in 2010, Vajda's paper has been favorably reviewed by several experts on Na-Dene and Yeniseian languages, including Michael Krauss, Jeff Leer, James Kari, and Heinrich Werner, as well as a number of other well-known linguists, including Bernard Comrie, Johanna Nichols, Victor Golla, Michael Fortescue, and Eric Hamp, so that a broad consensus has formed in support of this connection. Some experts on Yeniseian remain extremely skeptical or reject the hypothesis (e.g. Stefan Georg).\n\nThe earliest observations about the language were published by P. S. Pallas in 1788 in a travel diary (Путешествия по разным провинциям Русского Государства \"Puteshestviya po raznim provintsiyam Russkogo Gosudarstva\"). M.A. Castrén was one of the last known to study the Kot language. Castrén lived beside the Kan river with five people of Knot, in which is believed was the last remaining people who spoke the language. In 1858, M. A. Castrén published the first grammar and dictionary (\"Versuch einer jenissei-ostjakischen und Kottischen Sprachlehre\"), which also included material on the Kot language. During the 19th century, the Ket were mistaken for a tribe of the Finno-Ugric Khanty. A. Karger in 1934 published the first grammar (Кетский язык \"Ketskij jazyk\"), as well as a Ket primer (Букварь на кетском языке \"Bukvar' na ketskom jazyke\"), and a new treatment appeared in 1968, written by A. Kreinovich.\n\nE. Alekseyenko has written a historical-ethnological treatment of the Kets (Кеты \"Kety\", 1967). Western Washington University historical linguist Edward Vajda offers better substantiated findings into the origins of the Ket people, where DNA claims show genetic affinities with that of Tibetan, Burmese, and others. Edward Vajda spent a year in Siberia (2005–2006) studying the Ket people, and finds a relationship of Ket language to that of Native American Na-Dene languages, and also suggests the tonal system of the Ket language is closer to that of Vietnamese than any of the other native Siberian languages. His (2004) monograph \"Ket\" is the first modern scholarly grammar of the Ket language in English. (Lueders 2008)\n\n\nVajda analyses Ket as having only 12 consonant phonemes:\nIt is one of the few languages to lack both /p/ and /g/, along with Goliath and Efik, as well as most varieties of Arabic.\n\nThere is much allophony, and the phonetic inventory of consonants is essentially as below. This is the level of description reflected by the Ket alphabet.\n\nFurthermore, all nasal consonants in Ket have voiceless allophones at the end of a monosyllabic word with a glottalized or descending tone (i.e. turn into ), likewise, becomes in the same situation. Alveolars are often pronounced laminal and possibly palatalized, though not in the vicinity of a uvular consonant. is normally pronounced with affrication, as .\n\nDescriptions of Ket vary widely in the number of contrastive tones they report: as many as eight and as few as zero have been counted. Given this wide disagreement, whether or not Ket is a tonal language is debatable, although recent works by Ket specialists Edward Vajda and Stefan Georg defend the existence of tone.\n\nIn tonal descriptions, Ket does not employ a tone on every syllable but instead uses one tone per word. Following Vajda's description of Southern Ket, the five basic tones are as follows:\n\nThe glottalized tone features pharyngeal or laryngeal constriction, or a full glottal stop that interrupts the vowel.\n\nGeorg's 2007 description of Ket tone is similar to the above, but reduces the basic number of tonemes to four, while moving the rising high-falling tone plus a variant to a class of tonemes only found in multisyllabic words. With some exceptions caused by certain prefixes or clitics, the domain of tones in a multisyllabic word is limited to the first two syllables.\n\nKet makes significant use of incorporation. Incorporation is not limited to nouns, and can also include verbs, adverbs, adjectives, and bound morphemes found only in the role of incorporated elements. Incorporation also occurs as both a lexicalized process - the combination of verb and incorporate being treated as a distinct lexical element, with a meaning often based around the incorporated element - and a paradigmatic one, where the incorporation is performed spontaneously for particular semantic and pragmatic effect Forms of incorporation include:\n\nIn the 1930s a Latin-based alphabet was developed and used:\nIn the 1980s a new, Cyrillic-based, alphabet was created:\nKet people were subjected to collectivization and then eventually sent to Russian-only boarding schools from the 1930s to 1960s. Now, Ket is taught as a subject in some primary schools, but only older adults are fluent and few are raising their children with the language. Kellog, Russia is the only place where Ket is still taught in schools. Special books are provided for grades second through fourth but after those grades there is only Russian Literature to read that describes Ket culture. There are no known monolingual speakers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1042185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1042185", "title": "Korean Educational Development Institute", "text": "Korean Educational Development Institute\n\nThe Korean Educational Development Institute (KEDI) works for the South Korean Ministry of Education and Human Resource Development.\nIt conducts research in the field of educational goals and methods, creating policy solutions.\n\nThe KEDI was founded in 1972, and has since played a principal role in Korea's emergence as an educationally advanced nation. Research and development projects conducted by KEDI assisted in the laying of the educational foundation during Korea's national restoration period (1970s to 1990s). Through its diverse research efforts, KEDI provided guidelines as well as lent initiative to the quantitative and qualitative expansion of school education in Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "24258466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24258466", "title": "Lake of Stars Festival", "text": "Lake of Stars Festival\n\nLake of Stars Festival is an annual three-day international festival held on the shores of Lake Malawi, the third largest lake in Africa. The first festival took place in 2004 and attracts over 4,000 attendees with musical acts drawn mainly from Africa and Europe.\n\nThe festival was founded by British tourist Will Jameson. Jameson visited Malawi in 1998. He was a student at John Moores University and took a year off to work with The Wildlife Society. That work sent him to Malawi. Upon returning to college, Jameson started night club as tribute to his trip, called Chibuku Shake Shake, the name of a brand of Malawian beer. The club night was named the best club night in the United Kingdom 2004 by \"Mixmag\". That same year, Jameson held the first festival. An estimated 700 people attended, the majority from Africa. The 2011 Lake of Stars attracted over 3,000 attendees from Europe and Africa. The festival was opened with the Malawian ministry of tourism skydiving onto the festival beach.\n\nLake of Stars Festival is widely referenced as being one of the most important festivals on the African continent . In 2014, it was named one of the top seven African music festivals to attend by CNN. \"Time Out\" named Lake of Stars as having the most beautiful festival location in the world, in 2015.. The UK's Independent newspaper has said \"the life-affirming Lake of Stars offers a fascinating opportunity to experience the musical pulse of this inspiring country\" . In 2016, Vice Magazine recognised that \"the ability of this festival to inspire the young people who attend is pretty special\" \n\nThe Lake of Stars Festival is organised by a mixture of international volunteers, many of them with huge amounts of experience in the live events industry, supporting a team in Malawi. The festival receives pro-bono support from the UK music industry, with the UK headliners that travel to Malawi usually agreeing to waive their normal performance fees. An estimated over $1 million is generated by the festival for the local economy each year.\n\nThe festival organizes volunteer opportunities for festival attendees, providing service to a variety of charities sponsored by the festival including the Microloan Foundation. Attendees also visit orphanages to spend time with children and play games and sports with them. The festival also includes talks, similar to TED talks, \ntheatre, dance and mixed martial arts.\n\nA wide swath of international performers play at Lake of Stars, many from Africa and the United Kingdom. These artists include, but are not limited to:\n\nThe Lake of Stars project organises other events in Malawi in addition to the main festival, including the Children's Future Festival and film festival Lilongwe Shorts .\n\nOutside of Malawi the project is organising new festivals in 2018, taking place in London and Glasgow and featuring artists from Malawi, Zambia, Ghana, South Africa and the UK \n"}
{"id": "44683200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44683200", "title": "Legal consciousness", "text": "Legal consciousness\n\nLegal consciousness is a \"collection\" of understood and/or imagined to have understood, legal awareness of ideas, views, feelings and traditions imbibed through legal socialization; which reflects as legal culture among given individual, or a group, or a given society at large. The legal consciousness evaluates the existing law and also bears in mind an image of the desired or ideal law.\n\nConsciousness is not an individual trait nor solely ideational; legal consciousness is a type of social practice reflecting and forming social structures. The study of legal Consciousness documents the forms of participation and interpretation through which act or sustain, reproduce, or amend the circulating contested or hegemonic structures of meanings concerning law. Legal consciousness is the way in which law is experienced and interpreted by specific individuals as they engage, avoid, resist or just assume the law and legal meanings.\n\nLegal consciousness is a state of being, legal socialisation is the process to Legal consciousness; where as legal awareness & legal mobilisation are means to achieve the same.\n\nThe Great Soviet Encyclopaedia (1979) defined legal consciousness as \" \"the sum of views and ideas expressing the attitude of people toward law, legality, and justice and their concept of what is lawful and unlawful. Legal consciousness is a form of social consciousness. Legal ideology, the system of legal views based on certain social and scientific viewpoints, is a concentrated expression of legal consciousness. The customs and feelings of people in relation to legal phenomena constitute the psychological aspect of legal consciousness; among these are a sense of justice and a loathing of crimes and illegal actions\" \"\n\nLegal consciousness is defined by Ewick and Silbey as the process by which people make sense of their experiences by relying on legal categories and concepts. People do this even when they are not familiar with the details and minutia of law or the legal system. They explain that there are cultural schemas provided by law that people use to make sense of their experiences. They refer to this as legality. The concept of legality includes \"the meanings, sources, authority and cultural practices that are commonly recognized as legal, regardless of who employs them or for what ends.\" These meanings and sources and different ways of knowing and understanding enable people to make sense of what happens to them and what that might mean in terms of their rights and options. This process of understanding legal experiences occurs within a larger ecosystem in which there are disputes over meaning and values. Seron and Munger explain that \"\"in addition, class may affect legal consciousness: Law may mean different things depending on an individual's location in the various hierarchies of status, prestige, and knowledge associated with membership in a social class.\n\nlegal consciousness narratives\n\n"}
{"id": "42875217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42875217", "title": "List of countries by tertiary education attainment", "text": "List of countries by tertiary education attainment\n\nThis is a list of countries by 25- to 64-year-olds having completed tertiary education as published by the OECD. It includes some non-OECD members.\n\nTertiary education is the educational level following the completion of a school providing a secondary education. The World Bank, for example, defines tertiary education as including universities as well as institutions that teach specific capacities of higher learning such as colleges, technical training institutes, community colleges, nursing schools, research laboratories, centers of excellence, and distance learning centers.\n\nSource: OECD\n\n"}
{"id": "40557956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40557956", "title": "List of cultural icons of the United Kingdom", "text": "List of cultural icons of the United Kingdom\n\nSymbols of the United Kingdom are mostly interchangeable with symbols of Britain. This page could, theoretically, be called British cultural icons. The list includes certain symbols of England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland which, for one reason or another, may be perceived to be shared by other parts of the United Kingdom, or were founded or invented after the British Act of Union 1707, or before the creation of the constituent countries (hence the inclusion of Stonehenge). At a stretch, they could be things which were created or invented, or people who were born, before the Act of Union but after the Union of the Crowns in 1603.\n\nIcons of the United Kingdom include:\n\n"}
{"id": "33795885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33795885", "title": "List of eschatological topics", "text": "List of eschatological topics\n\nThe following topics pertain to eschatology, a part of theology, physics, philosophy and futurology concerned with what are believed to be the final events of history, the ultimate destiny of humanity — commonly referred to as the \"end of the world\" or \"end time\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005216", "title": "Macaron", "text": "Macaron\n\nA macaron ( ; )\n\nor French macaroon ( )\nis a sweet meringue-based confection made with egg white, icing sugar, granulated sugar, almond powder or ground almond, and food coloring.\nThere is some variation in whether the term \"macaron\" or \"macaroon\" is used, and the related coconut macaroon is often confused with the macaron. In English, some bakers have adopted the French spelling of \"macaron\" for the meringue-based item to distinguish the two. In a \"Slate\" article on the topic, Stanford professor of linguistics and computer science Daniel Jurafsky describes how the two confections have a shared history, also shared with macaroni (Italian ). Prof. Jurafsky notes that French words ending with \"-on\" that were borrowed into English in the 16th and 17th centuries are usually spelled with \"-oon\" (for example: \"balloon\", \"cartoon\", \"platoon\"). In an older version of this article, while mostly using the term \"macaron\" for the meringue-based item, Prof. Jurafsky also distinguishes the two using the terms \"Parisian macaroon\" and \"coconut macaroon\". Many bakeries continue to use the term \"macaroon\".\n\nA typical macaron is presented with a ganache, buttercream or jam filling sandwiched between two such cookies, akin to a sandwich cookie. The confection is characterized by a smooth squared top, a ruffled circumference—referred to as the \"crown\" or \"foot\" (or \"pied\")—and a flat base. It is mildly moist and easily melts in the mouth. Macarons can be found in a wide variety of flavors that range from traditional (raspberry, chocolate) to unusual (foie gras, matcha).\n\nMacarons have been produced in the Venetian monasteries since the 8th century A.D. During the Renaissance, French queen Catherine de' Medici's Italian pastry chefs made them when she brought them with her to France in 1533 upon marrying Henry II of France. According to \"Larousse Gastronomique\" the macaron was created in 1791 in a convent near Cormery. In 1792, macarons began to gain fame when two Carmelite nuns, seeking asylum in Nancy during the French Revolution, baked and sold the macaron cookies in order to pay for their housing. These nuns became known as the \"Macaron Sisters\". In these early stages, macarons were served without special flavors or fillings.\n\nIt was not until the 1930s that macarons began to be served two-by-two with the addition of jams, liqueurs, and spices. The macaron as it is known today, composed of two almond meringue discs filled with a layer of buttercream, jam, or ganache filling, was originally called the \"Gerbet\" or the \"Paris macaron.\" Pierre Desfontaines, of the French pâtisserie Ladurée, has sometimes been credited with its creation in the early part of the 20th century, but another baker, Claude Gerbet, also claims to have invented it. French macaron bakeries became trendy in North America in the 2010s.\n\nMany Italian cookbooks of the 16th century mention almond biscuits closely resembling macarons albeit under different names. The earliest known recipe dated back from the early 17th century and appears to be inspired by a French version of the recipe.\n\nThere are two main methods to making a macaron - the \"French\" method and the \"Italian\" method. The difference between the two is the way the meringue is made.\n\nIn the French method, egg whites are whisked until a stiff-peaked meringue forms. From there, sifted, ground almonds and powdered sugar are folded in slowly until the desired consistency is reached. This process of knocking out air and folding is called macaronage.\n\nThe Italian method involves whisking the egg whites with a hot sugar syrup to form a meringue. Sifted almonds and icing sugar are also mixed with raw egg whites to form a paste. The meringue and almond paste are mixed together to form the macaron mixture. This method is often deemed more structurally sound yet also sweeter and also requires a candy thermometer for the sugar syrup.\n\nEither Italian or French meringue can be combined with ground almonds.\n\nA macaron is made by combining icing sugar and ground almonds into a fine mixture. In a separate bowl, egg whites are beaten to a meringue-like consistency. The two elements are then folded together until they are the consistency of \"shaving foam\", and then are piped, left to form a skin, and baked. Sometimes, a filling is added.\n\nSeveral French cities and regions claim long histories and variations, notably Lorraine (Nancy and Boulay), Basque Country (Saint-Jean-de-Luz), Saint-Émilion, Amiens, Montmorillon, Le Dorat, Sault, Chartres, Cormery, Joyeuse and Sainte-Croix in Burgundy.\nMacarons d'Amiens, made in Amiens, are small, round-shaped biscuit-type macarons made from almond paste, fruit and honey, which were first recorded in 1855.\n\nThe city of Montmorillon is well known for its macarons and has a museum dedicated to it. The Maison Rannou-Métivier is the oldest macaron bakery in Montmorillon, dating back to 1920. The traditional recipe for Montmorillon macarons remains unchanged for over 150 years.\n\nThe town of Nancy in the Lorraine region has a storied history with the macaron. It is said that the abbess of Remiremont founded an order of nuns called the \"Dames du Saint-Sacrement\" with strict dietary rules prohibiting the consumption of meat. Two nuns, Sisters Marguerite and Marie-Elisabeth are credited with creating the Nancy macaron to fit their dietary requirements. They became known as the 'Macaron Sisters' (Les Soeurs Macarons). In 1952, the city of Nancy honored them by giving their name to the Rue de la Hache, where the macaron was invented.\n\nMacarons in Japan are a popular confection known as マカロン (\"makaron\"). There is also another widely available version of \"makaron\" which substitutes peanut flour for almond and a wagashi-style flavouring. The \"makaron\" is featured in Japanese fashion through cell phone accessories, stickers, and cosmetics aimed towards women.\n\nIn Switzerland, the Luxemburgerli (also Luxembourger) is a brand name of confectionery made by the Confiserie Sprüngli in Zürich, Switzerland. A Luxemburgerli is a macaron comprising two disks of almond meringue with a buttercream filling. Luxemburgerli are smaller and lighter than macarons from many other vendors.\n\nFlavors of macarons available in America are available in respect to the general tastes of the public. These include flavors such as mint chocolate chip, peanut butter and jelly, snickers, peach champagne, pistachio, strawberry cheesecake, candy corn, salted pretzel, chocolate peanut butter, oatmeal raisin, candy cane, cinnamon, maple bacon, pumpkin, and salted caramel popcorn.\n\nIn Paris, the Ladurée chain of pastry shops has been known for its macarons for about .\n\nIn Portugal, France and Belgium, McDonald's sells macarons in their McCafés (sometimes using advertising that likens the shape of a macaron to that of a hamburger). McCafé macarons are produced by Château Blanc, which, like Ladurée, is a subsidiary of Groupe Holder, though they do not use the same macaron recipe.\n\nOutside of Europe, the French-style macaron can be found in Canada and the United States.\n\nIn Australia, Adriano Zumbo, along with his TV series \"MasterChef\", have contributed to the macaron becoming a popular sweet treat, and it is now sold by McDonald's in its Australian McCafe outlets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29488282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29488282", "title": "Mad Monday", "text": "Mad Monday\n\n'Mad Monday' is a term commonly used in Australia to refer to the traditional end-of-season celebrations for professional players of various codes of football. Football matches are typically played on weekends so as the season nears its end with teams being eliminated, by Sunday night all results have been determined and teams will then know if they are to continue in the finals or if their season is over. With the season finished, Mad Monday celebrations ensue, often involving heavy drinking. Over the years, Mad Monday celebrations have been the catalyst for image-damaging incidents for professional footballers. This has led to calls for the tradition to be banned.\n"}
{"id": "863923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863923", "title": "Mr. Terrific (TV series)", "text": "Mr. Terrific (TV series)\n\nMr. Terrific is an American TV sitcom that aired on CBS Television from January 9 to August 28, 1967, Monday nights at 8 pm EST. Stephen Strimpell starred in the title role. A similar series on NBC, \"Captain Nice,\" also aired that season on Monday nights following \"Mr.Terrific\" at 8:30 pm.\n\nRiding the tide of the camp superhero craze of the 1960s, the show's premise involved gas station attendant Stanley Beamish (Strimpell), a mild-mannered scrawny youth who secretly worked to fight crime for a government organization, \"The Bureau of Secret Projects,\" in Washington. All he needed to do was to take a \"power pill\" which gave him the strength of a thousand men and enabled him to fly, much like Superman, albeit by furious flapping while wearing the top half of a wingsuit. To the often-lamented misfortune of the Bureau of Secret Projects, he was the only person on whom the pills worked. It was established that, although the pill would give him high strength levels, he was still vulnerable to bullets. Furthermore, each power pill had a time limit of one hour (like \"Underdog\" and DC Comics's Hourman), although he generally had two 10-minute booster pills available per episode. Much of the show's humor revolved around the tendency of the amiable yet gullible Beamish to lose Mr. Terrific's powers at inopportune times, before he completed his given assignment.\n\nBeamish's government employers were Mr. Barton J. Reed and Mr. Harley Trent, and his day-job partner at the service station was Hal Walters. Beamish was sworn to secrecy concerning his alter-ego and super-powers.\n\nAlan Young, who had just completed his run as Wilbur Post on \"Mister Ed,\" was the original choice to play Stanley H. Beamish, and appeared in the original 1966 unaired version of the pilot, which featured a different supporting cast (Edward Andrews as The Chief, All Checco as Dr. Kramer, Dick Merrifield as Tony Lawrence, Sheilah Wells as Gloria Dickinson, and Jesse White as Mr. Finney).\n\n\n\nThe entire 17-episode series of \"Mr. Terrific\" was released commercially on DVD by Ufa/DVD in Germany under the title \"Immer wenn er Pillen nahm\" (\"Whenever He Took Pills\") on July 17, 2009. The episodes can be heard in the original English, or in German.\n\n"}
{"id": "30991376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991376", "title": "Ngahue", "text": "Ngahue\n\nAccording to Māori mythology Ngahue (sometimes known as Ngake) was a contemporary of Kupe and one of the first Polynesian explorers to reach New Zealand. He was a native of the Hawaiki and voyaged to New Zealand in “Tāwhirirangi”, his waka (canoe). No time has been fixed for these voyages, but according to legend he discovered pounamu (Greenstone) and Ngahue killed a Moa (large flightless bird - now extinct). Pounamu was sometimes called Te Ika-o-Ngāhue (Ngāhue’s fish) and they took several boulders back to Hawaiki.\n"}
{"id": "720489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=720489", "title": "Nicknames of politicians and personalities in Quebec", "text": "Nicknames of politicians and personalities in Quebec\n\nA custom of Quebecers is to give nicknames to their politicians (and some personalities), quite especially their Premiers. Many of those given to Premiers are affectionate or even express admiration, while others are insulting.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19406892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19406892", "title": "Nocturne (painting)", "text": "Nocturne (painting)\n\nNocturne painting is a term coined by James Abbott McNeill Whistler to describe a painting style that depicts scenes evocative of the night or subjects as they appear in a veil of light, in twilight, or in the absence of direct light. In a broader usage, the term has come to refer to any painting of a night scene, or night-piece, such as Rembrandt's \"The Night Watch\".\n\nWhistler used the term within the title of his works to represent paintings with a \"dreamy, pensive mood\" by applying a musical name. He also titled (and retitled) works using other terms associated with music, such as a \"symphony\", \"harmony\", \"study\" or \"arrangement\", to emphasize the tonal qualities and the composition and to de-emphasize the narrative content. The use of the term \"nocturne\" can be associated with the Tonalism movement of the American of the late 19th century and early 20th century which is \"characterized by soft, diffused light, muted tones and hazy outlined objects, all of which imbue the works with a strong sense of mood.\" Along with winter scenes, nocturnes were a common Tonalist theme.Frederic Remington used the term as well for his nocturne scenes of the American Old West.\n\nIn northern Europe, the Dutch Golden Age produced one of the greatest artists of all time. The first artist to paint scenes on a regular basis in the nocturne mode was Rembrandt van Rijn (1606–1669). Many of his portraits were also painted using a nocturne method. As in \"The Mill\" (1645), most of his landscapes were painted to evoke a sense of the nocturne, which could be expressed in either a calm or stormy manner.\n\n“Nocturne” was a term that was normally applied to certain types of musical compositions before James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834–1903), inspired by the language of music, began using the word within the titles of many of his works, such as \"Nocturne in Blue and Silver\" (1871), in the collection of the Tate Gallery, London, United Kingdom.\n\nFrederic Remington (1861-1909) is so identified for his nocturne scenes of the American Old West that they were celebrated in 2003-2004 with an exhibition, \"Frederic Remington: The Color of Night\", co-organized and shown in turn by the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., and the Gilcrease Museum, Tulsa, Oklahoma. The exhibition also generated a colorful book of the same title and travelled to the Denver Art Museum in Denver, Colorado. Remington painted many of his nocturnes in the last years of his life, when he was transitioning from a career as an illustrator to that of a fine artist and had chosen Impressionism as the style in which he worked at the time. One example of his work is \"The Stampede\" (also known as \"The Stampede by Lightning\", 1908).\nThe paintings pictured in the gallery below are in order of date completed, left to right:\n\n\nOther artists who also created nocturne scenes are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1091767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091767", "title": "Non-well-founded set theory", "text": "Non-well-founded set theory\n\nNon-well-founded set theories are variants of axiomatic set theory that allow sets to contain themselves and otherwise violate the rule of well-foundedness. In non-well-founded set theories, the foundation axiom of ZFC is replaced by axioms implying its negation.\n\nThe study of non-well-founded sets was initiated by Dmitry Mirimanoff in a series of papers between 1917 and 1920, in which he formulated the distinction between well-founded and non-well-founded sets; he did not regard well-foundedness as an axiom. Although a number of axiomatic systems of non-well-founded sets were proposed afterwards, they did not find much in the way of applications until Peter Aczel’s hyperset theory in 1988.\n\nThe theory of non-well-founded sets has been applied in the logical modelling of non-terminating computational processes in computer science (process algebra and final semantics), linguistics and natural language semantics (situation theory), philosophy (work on the Liar Paradox), and in a different setting, non-standard analysis.\n\nIn 1917, Dmitry Mirimanoff introduced the concept of well-foundedness of a set:\n\nIn ZFC, there is no infinite descending ∈-sequence by the axiom of regularity. In fact, the axiom of regularity is often called the \"foundation axiom\" since it can be proved within ZFC (that is, ZFC without the axiom of regularity) that well-foundedness implies regularity. In variants of ZFC without the axiom of regularity, the possibility of non-well-founded sets with set-like ∈-chains arises. For example, a set \"A\" such that \"A\" ∈ \"A\" is non-well-founded.\n\nAlthough Mirimanoff also introduced a notion of isomorphism between possibly non-well-founded sets, he considered neither an axiom of foundation nor of anti-foundation. In 1926, Paul Finsler introduced the first axiom that allowed non-well-founded sets. After Zermelo adopted Foundation into his own system in 1930 (from previous work of von Neumann 1925–1929) interest in non-well-founded sets waned for decades. An early non-well-founded set theory was Willard Van Orman Quine’s New Foundations, although it is not merely ZF with a replacement for Foundation.\n\nSeveral proofs of the independence of Foundation from the rest of ZF were published in 1950s particularly by Paul Bernays (1954), following an announcement of the result in earlier paper of his from 1941, and by Ernst Specker who gave a different proof in his Habilitationsschrift of 1951, proof which was published in 1957. Then in 1957 Rieger's theorem was published, which gave a general method for such proof to be carried out, rekindling some interest in non-well-founded axiomatic systems. The next axiom proposal came in a 1960 congress talk of Dana Scott (never published as a paper), proposing an alternative axiom now called SAFA. Another axiom proposed in the late 1960s was Maurice Boffa's axiom of superuniversality, described by Aczel as the highpoint of research of its decade. Boffa's idea was to make foundation fail as badly as it can (or rather, as extensionality permits): Boffa's axiom implies that every extensional set-like relation is isomorphic to the elementhood predicate on a transitive class.\n\nA more recent approach to non-well-founded set theory, pioneered by M. Forti and F. Honsell in the 1980s, borrows from computer science the concept of a bisimulation. Bisimilar sets are considered indistinguishable and thus equal, which leads to a strengthening of the axiom of extensionality. In this context, axioms contradicting the axiom of regularity are known as anti-foundation axioms, and a set that is not necessarily well-founded is called a hyperset.\n\nFour mutually independent anti-foundation axioms are well-known, sometimes abbreviated by the first letter in the following list:\nThey essentially correspond to four different notions of equality for non-well-founded sets. The first of these, AFA, is based on accessible pointed graphs (apg) and states that two hypersets are equal if and only if they can be pictured by the same apg. Within this framework, it can be shown that the so-called Quine atom, formally defined by Q={Q}, exists and is unique.\n\nEach of the axioms given above extends the universe of the previous, so that: V ⊆ A ⊆ S ⊆ F ⊆ B. In the Boffa universe, the distinct Quine atoms form a proper class.\n\nIt is worth emphasizing that hyperset theory is an extension of classical set theory rather than a replacement: the well-founded sets within a hyperset domain conform to classical set theory.\n\nAczel’s hypersets were extensively used by Jon Barwise and John Etchemendy in their 1987 book \"The Liar\", on the liar's paradox; The book is also good introduction to the topic of non-well-founded sets.\n\nBoffa’s superuniversality axiom has found application as a basis for axiomatic nonstandard analysis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3963271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963271", "title": "Ozidi", "text": "Ozidi\n\nOzidi is a folk hero among the Ijo of Nigeria, and the subject of The Ozidi Saga composed by playwright and poet John Pepper Clark. The saga's first performance was in 1966.\n\nAfter his father is murdered by treacherous colleagues, Ozidi seeks vengeance so his father can join his ancestors. His goal is to call home his father from a limbo-like evil grove where the murdered go instead of joining their ancestors.\n\nOzidi vomits his sword and battle outfit out of himself before each battle. He leads his musician-assistants, his grandmother, and the animals and objects that he regurgitates. His grandmother coaches him to many victories, but Ozidi goes too far and kills his uncle and an innocent woman and her newborn son. The Smallpox King comes to take Ozidi in punishment, but Ozidi's mother insists that her son was only being afflicted by Yaws, a mild childhood disease that Ozidi had never contracted. Somehow the Smallpox King was confused and he retreated. Upon recovery, Ozidi gave up his battle sword for good.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16778196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16778196", "title": "Pete Lawrence", "text": "Pete Lawrence\n\nPete Lawrence is a conceptualist, social entrepreneur, recording artist, DJ, event organiser, music programmer writer and broadcaster based in the UK.\n\nLawrence created the concept for The Big Chill in February 1994, originally as a new type of Sunday multimedia club. With his partner at the time, Katrina Larkin, he put together an event at which people were able to network and enjoy an experimental, audio-visual environment, as part of a multi-faceted eight-hour event. It was the first London club to have its own website and to offer free internet access and was initially noted for its ambient and downtempo soundtrack, contributing to the development of the chill out’ boom at the turn of the Millennium.\n\nThis “festival in a club” concept adapted relatively easily to an outdoors setting and in 1995 Pete Lawrence and Katrina Larkin staged the first Big Chill Festival, reaching a capacity of 35,000 by 2007 as one of the top UK festivals. He was also instrumental in taking The Big Chill concept to several locations worldwide in collaboration with The British Council.\n\nLawrence was also involved in The Big Chill's expansion into opening London venues. The Big Chill Bar in Brick Lane, was followed in autumn 2006 with the three story Big Chill House in Kings Cross as well as releasing his own recording project Chilled By Nature. It included a number of EPs, one-off tracks and collaborations, live performances at The Big Chill festival, and the debut album \"Under One Sun\".\n\nIn the mid 80s, he established the Cooking Vinyl label and recorded 'The Texas Campfire Tapes' with singer-songwriter Michelle Shocked which went to No 1 in the UK Independent album charts. He co-edited the book \"Crossfade - a Big Chill Anthology\" (Serpents Tail). In December 2007, Pete Lawrence and Katrina Larkin were voted into Time Out's Top 100 ‘movers and shakers’. Lawrence stood down as a director and shareholder of Chillfest (The Big Chill) in February 2008.\n\nIn September 2017, Lawrence's new project Campfire Convention launched as a social network and membership based events community. Campfire's aims include :\nBuilding a social movement around values, bringing people together to find common ground, real life meet ups, connections and conversations : campaigning, initiatives and engagement at local level via Campfire Beacons, building resources for reference and activism, pioneering a new journalistic media voice, creating new models for a post-capitalist world which reward engagement and global cultural exchange.\n\nCampfire's first outdoor Convention was in August 2016 in Michaelchurch Escley, Herefordshire which included keynote addresses from their patron Brian Eno and peace activist Scilla Elworthy as well as panels, thinkshops, music, art and yoga.\n\n"}
{"id": "47816307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47816307", "title": "Re-recording (music)", "text": "Re-recording (music)\n\nA re-recording is a recording produced following a new performance of a work of music. This is most commonly, but not exclusively, by a popular artist or group. It differs from a reissue, which involves a second or subsequent release of a previously-recorded piece of music.\n\nRe-recordings are often produced decades after the original recordings were released, usually under contract terms more favorable to the artists. This is especially common among acts that originally agreed to contracts that would be considered unfair and exploitative today. When re-recordings are issued under newer contracts, artists can collect far higher royalties for use in films, commercials, and movie trailers. Other acts re-record their work for artistic reasons. Jeff Lynne of the Electric Light Orchestra released with new versions of previous hits like \"Mr. Blue Sky\", the original of which Lynne described as \"[not] quite how I meant it\". Re-recordings commonly appear in online music stores and streaming services, such as the iTunes Store and Spotify; the original recording may or may not be available.\n"}
{"id": "18581264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18581264", "title": "Reading", "text": "Reading\n\nReading is the complex cognitive process of decoding symbols to derive meaning. \n\nSuccess in this process is measured as \"reading comprehension\". Reading is a means for language acquisition, communication, and sharing information and ideas. The symbols are typically visual (written or printed) but may be tactile (Braille). Like all languages, it is a complex interaction between text and reader, shaped by prior knowledge, experiences, attitude, and the language community—which is culturally and socially situated. The reading process requires continuous practice, development, and refinement. Reading requires creativity and critical analysis. Consumers of literature deviate from literal words to create images that make sense to them in the unfamiliar places the texts describe. Because reading is a complex process, it cannot be controlled or restricted to one or two interpretations. There are no concrete laws in reading, but rather it provides readers an escape to produce their own products introspectively. This promotes deep exploration of texts during interpretation.\nReaders use a variety of reading strategies to decode (to translate symbols into sounds or visual representations of speech) and comprehension. Readers may use context clues to identify the meaning of unknown words. Readers integrate the words they have read into their existing framework of knowledge or schema.\n\nOther types of reading are not speech based writing systems, such as music notation or pictograms. The common link is the interpretation of symbols to extract the meaning from the visual notations or tactile signals (as in the case of Braille).\n\nCurrently most reading is either of the printed word from ink or toner on paper, such as in a book, magazine, newspaper, leaflet, or notebook, or of electronic displays, such as computer displays, television, mobile phones or e-readers. Handwritten text may also be produced using a graphite pencil or a pen.\nShort texts may be written or painted on an object.\n\nOften the text relates to the object, such as an address on an envelope, product info on packaging, or text on a traffic or street sign. A slogan may be painted on a wall. A text may also be produced by arranging stones of a different color in a wall or road. Short texts like these are sometimes referred to as environmental print.\n\nSometimes text or images are in relief, with or without using a color contrast. Words or images can be carved in stone, wood, or metal; instructions can be printed in relief on the plastic housing of a home appliance, or myriad other examples.\n\nA requirement for reading is a good contrast between letters and background (depending on colors of letters and background, any pattern or image in the background, and lighting) and a suitable font size. In the case of a computer screen, it is important to see an entire line of text without scrolling.\n\nThe field of visual word recognition studies how people read individual words. A key technique in studying how individuals read text is eye tracking. This has revealed that reading is performed as a series of eye fixations with saccades between them. Humans also do not appear to fixate on every word in a text, but instead pause on some words mentally while their eyes are moving. This is possible because human languages show certain linguistic regularities.\n\nThe process of recording information to read later is writing. In the case of computer and microfiche storage there is the separate step of displaying the written text. For humans, reading is usually faster and easier than writing.\n\nReading is typically an individual activity, though on occasion a person reads out loud for other listeners. Reading aloud for one's own use, for better comprehension, is a form of intrapersonal communication: in the early 1970s has been proposed the dual-route hypothesis to reading aloud, accordingly to which there were two separate mental mechanisms, or cognitive routes, that are involved in this case, with output of both mechanisms contributing to the pronunciation of a written stimulus.\n\nReading to young children is a recommended way to instill language and expression, and to promote comprehension of text. Personalised books for children are recommended to improve engagement in reading by featuring the child themselves in the story.\n\nBefore the reintroduction of separated text in the late Middle Ages, the ability to read silently was considered rather remarkable.\n\nLiteracy is the ability to use the symbols of a writing system. It is the ability to interpret what the information symbols represent, and re-create those same symbols so that others can derive the same meaning. Illiteracy is the inability to derive meaning from the symbols used in a writing system.\nDyslexia refers to a cognitive difficulty with reading and writing. It is defined as brain-based type of learning disability that specifically impairs a person's ability to read. The term dyslexia can refer to two disorders: developmental dyslexia which is a learning disability. Alexia (acquired dyslexia) refers to reading difficulties that occur following brain damage, stroke, or progressive illness.\n\nMajor predictors of an individual's ability to read both alphabetic and nonalphabetic scripts are phonological awareness, rapid automatized naming and verbal IQ. Being taught to read at an early age (such as five years old) does not ultimately result in better reading skills, and if it replaces more developmentally appropriate activities, then it may cause other harms.\n\nMany studies show that increasing reading speed improves comprehension.Reading speed requires a long time to reach adult levels. The table to the right shows how reading-rate varies with age, regardless of the period (1965 to 2005) and the language (English, French, German). The Taylor values probably are higher, for disregarding students who failed the comprehension test. The reading test by the French psychologist Pierre Lefavrais (\"L'alouette\", published in 1967) tested reading aloud, with a penalty for errors, and could, therefore, not be a rate greater than 150 wpm. According to Carver (1990), children's reading speed increases throughout the school years. On average, from grade 2 to college, reading rate increases 14 standard-length words per minute each year (where one standard-length word is defined as six characters in text, including punctuation and spaces). Note that the data from Taylor (English) and Landerl (German) are based on texts of increasing difficulty; other data were obtained when all age groups were reading the same text.\n\nRates of reading include reading for memorization (fewer than 100 words per minute [wpm]); reading for learning (100–200 wpm); reading for comprehension (200–400 wpm); and skimming (400–700 wpm). Reading for comprehension is the essence of the daily reading of most people. Skimming is for superficially processing large quantities of text at a low level of comprehension (below 50%).\n\nAdvice for choosing the appropriate reading-rate includes reading flexibly, slowing when concepts are closely presented and when the material is new, and increasing when the material is familiar and of thin concept. Speed reading courses and books often encourage the reader to continually accelerate; comprehension tests lead the reader to believe his or her comprehension is continually improving; yet, competence-in-reading requires knowing that skimming is dangerous, as a default habit.\n\nScientific studies have demonstrated that reading—defined here as capturing and decoding all the words on every page—faster than 900 wpm is not feasible given the limits set by the anatomy of the eye.\n\nReading speed has been used as a measure in research to determine the effect of interventions on human vision. A Cochrane Systematic Review used reading speed in words per minute as the primary outcome in comparing different reading aids for adults with low vision.\n\nBoth lexical and sub-lexical cognitive processes contribute to how we learn to read.\n\nSub-lexical reading, involves teaching reading by associating characters or groups of characters with sounds or by using phonics or synthetic phonics learning and teaching methodology, which some argue is in competition with whole language methods.\n\nLexical reading involves acquiring words or phrases without attention to the characters or groups of characters that compose them or by using whole language learning and teaching methodology. Some argue that this competes with phonics and synthetic phonics methods, and that the whole language approach tends to impair learning to spell.\n\nOther methods of teaching and learning to read have developed, and become somewhat controversial.\n\nLearning to read in a second language, especially in adulthood, may be a different process than learning to read a native language in childhood.\nThere are cases of very young children learning to read without having been taught. Such was the case with Truman Capote who reportedly taught himself to read and write at the age of five. There are also accounts of people who taught themselves to read by comparing street signs or Biblical passages to speech. The novelist Nicholas Delbanco taught himself to read at age six during a transatlantic crossing by studying a book about boats.\n\nBrain activity in young and older children can be used to predict future reading skill. Cross model mapping between the orthographic and phonologic areas in the brain are critical in reading. Thus, the amount of activation in the left dorsal inferior frontal gyrus while performing reading tasks can be used to predict later reading ability and advancement. Young children with higher phonological word characteristic processing have significantly better reading skills later on than older children who focus on whole-word orthographic representation.\n\nThere are several types and methods of reading, with differing rates that can be attained for each, for different kinds of material and purposes:\n\n\nReading process is therefore a communication context.\n\n\nSome tests incorporate several of the above components at once. For instance, the Nelson-Denny Reading Test scores readers both on the speed with which they can read a passage, and also their ability to accurately answer questions about this passage. Recent research has questioned the validity of the Nelson-Denny Reading Test, especially with regard to the identification of reading disabilities.\n\nReading books and writing are among brain-stimulating activities shown to slow down cognitive decline in old age, with people who participated in more mentally stimulating activities over their lifetimes having a slower rate of decline in memory and other mental capacities. Reading for pleasure has been linked to increased cognitive progress in vocabulary and mathematics during adolescence. \n\nReading from paper and from some screens requires more lighting than many other activities. Therefore, the possibility of doing this comfortably in cafés, restaurants, buses, at bus stops or in parks greatly varies depending on available lighting and time of day.\n\nReading from screens that produce their own light does not depend on external light, except that external light may lessen visual fatigue. For controlling what is on the screen (scrolling, turning the page, etc.), a touch screen or keyboard illumination further reduces dependency on external light.\n\nThe history of reading dates back to the invention of writing during the 4th millennium BC. Although reading print text is now an important way for the general population to access information, this has not always been the case. With some exceptions, only a small percentage of the population in many countries was considered literate before the Industrial Revolution. Some of the pre-modern societies with generally high literacy rates included classical Athens and the Islamic Caliphate.\n\nScholars assume that reading aloud (Latin \"clare legere\") was the more common practice in antiquity, and that reading silently (\"legere tacite\" or \"legere sibi\") was unusual. In his \"Confessions\", Saint Augustine remarks on Saint Ambrose's unusual habit of reading silently in the 4th century AD.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, elite individuals promoted passive reading, rather than creative interpretation. Reading has no concrete laws, but lets readers escape to produce their own products introspectively, promoting deep exploration of texts during interpretation. Some thinkers of that era believed that construction, or the creation of writing and producing a product, was a sign of initiative and active participation in society—and viewed consumption (reading) as simply taking in what constructors made. Also during this era, writing was considered superior to reading in society. They considered readers of that time passive citizens, because they did not produce a product. Michel de Certeau argued that the elites of the Age of Enlightenment were responsible for this general belief. Michel de Certeau believed that reading required venturing into an author's land, but taking away what the reader wanted specifically. This view held that writing was a superior art to reading within the hierarchical constraints of the era.\n\nIn 18th-century Europe, the then new practice of reading alone in bed was, for a time, considered dangerous and immoral. As reading became less a communal, oral practice, and more a private, silent one—and as sleeping increasingly moved from communal sleeping areas to individual bedrooms, some raised concern that reading in bed presented various dangers, such as fires caused by bedside candles. Some modern critics, however, speculate that these concerns were based on the fear that readers—especially women—could escape familial and communal obligations and transgress moral boundaries through the private fantasy worlds in books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37015539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37015539", "title": "Rosia Water Tanks", "text": "Rosia Water Tanks\n\nThe Rosia Water Tanks were large water tanks built at the turn of the nineteenth century at Rosia Bay in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. They were constructed based on the recommendation by Admiral John Jervis, 1st Earl of St Vincent that the Victualling Yard complex be relocated to Rosia Bay. The complex allowed Royal Navy vessels to obtain both food and water at one site. The Rosia Water Tanks remained in the possession of the Ministry of Defence until 2004, at which time they were transferred to the Government of Gibraltar. Despite local and international criticism, and a court case brought by the Gibraltar Heritage Trust, the tanks were demolished in 2006 to make way for affordable housing. When developer OEM International's funding proved insufficient to complete the project the government repossessed the site.\n\nJohn Jervis, 1st Earl St Vincent (1735-1823), Admiral in Charge of the Mediterranean Fleet, made recommendations in 1799 concerning the location of the Victualling Yard in Gibraltar. St Vincent advised the Victualling Yard be relocated from the Old Mole area to Rosia Bay so that both water and food could be provided to Royal Navy vessels from one site. Governor O'Hara did not approve of St Vincent's plan because he proposed to finance it by selling the naval stores at Waterport and Irish Town. However St Vincent won.\n\nNot only did the site allow access to the bay, the presence of Parson's Lodge Battery afforded protection from gunfire. The Victualling Yard complex, including the Victualling Yard, Rosia Water Tanks, and Rosia Mole, was constructed at the turn of the nineteenth century, the tanks begun in 1799 and finished in 1804.\n\nThe Rosia Water Tanks consisted of six parallel underground chambers built by contractor Giovanni Maria Boschetti adjacent to the Victualling Yard of bricks brought from Britain and sand-lime mortar, then waterproofed. The roofs of the Victualling Yard served as a catchment directing rain to a settlement tank, which was then purified by flowing it successively from one tank to the next. The lowest tank was sufficiently high to gravity feed vessels berthed at Rosia Mole. Hoses were used to supply vessels within Rosia Bay, a lighter barge those anchored off it in Gibraltar Harbour.\n\nThe Victualling Yard complex, including the tanks, enabled Vice Admiral Horatio Nelson (1758 – 1805) to maintain his fleet in the Mediterranean. Four days before the 1805 Battle of Trafalgar Lord Nelson notified Rear Admiral John Knight of a water shortage aboard his flagship, \"HMS Victory\", requesting he keep the matter to himself. That letter to Knight, written with Nelson's left hand, as he had lost his right hand, went up for auction at Sotheby's in July 2010.\n\nNelson died during the battle. Afterward \"Victory\" was towed into Rosia Bay and anchored. In addition repairing their ship, the sailors replenished their supplies of food and water. The vessel then returned to England with Nelson's body.\n\nThe tanks were in sufficient condition in the 1950s the navy constructed Rosia Distillery adjacent to the Rosia Cottages. It supplied water from the tanks to lighters which supplied vessels moored in Gibraltar Harbour. The tanks provided the community with water into the late twentieth century. They remained in the possession of the Ministry of Defence through the end of the twentieth century.\n\nThe Rosia Water Tanks were utilised by the Ministry of Defence until April 2004, at which time they were transferred to the Government of Gibraltar. The Gibraltar Heritage Trust sought a legal remedy when the government planned to demolish the tanks and construct a building offering affordable housing, Nelson's View, and underground car parking at the site. During a visit permitted by the courts in January 2006, historian Lionel Culatto assessed the tanks and found them to be in good condition. However, shortly thereafter, the Gibraltar Heritage Trust voted to drop its court case due to fears of the mounting legal costs. The vote prompted the resignations of the trust's chairman, Joe Ballantine, and another board member, Denis King, and also called into question the ability of the Gibraltar Heritage Trust to accomplish its stated mission.\n\nIn February 2006, Marcus Binney, Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London and Architecture Correspondent of \"The Times\", wrote about the controversy. In his column, \"Nelson caves to be turned into a car park,\" Binney reported that: \n\nDr. Ann Coats, Secretary of the Naval Dockyards Society and author of \"History of the Rosia Water Tanks, Gibraltar\", described the Rosia Water Tanks as: \n\nAppeals were made to the Governor of Gibraltar, Sir Francis Richards, to list the tanks with the Gibraltar Heritage Trust. Despite the pleas, neither the tanks nor the Victualling Yard were listed in 2006. Listing was limited to the entrance to the yard. The Rosia Water Tanks were demolished in August 2006 despite strong opposition. The government's actions were the subject of local and international criticism.\n\nJonathan Coad, also a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, is with English Heritage. The author of \"The Royal Dockyards 1690-1850\", he is considered to be a preeminent authority on Royal Naval Dockyard architecture. He contacted the Naval Dockyards Society, expressing his dismay over \"the destruction of the vaulted underground storage tanks, which were a remarkable construction feat\", and continued that \"equally serious will be the impact of the multi-storey building upon the enclosure of the Victualling Yard which will seriously affect the whole setting of this remarkable enclave and destroy the intimate scale of this area.\"\n\nOn 3 February 2006, the Government of Gibraltar issued a press release in which it acknowledged that the Nelson's View Development at the Rosia Water Tanks site had been awarded to the developer (OEM International) without a bidding process. In December 2007, the government repossessed the affordable housing project, initially claiming that it was to protect home purchasers from delays related to litigation. Later, it was learned the developers had defaulted on a £3.5m payment to the contractor. It was revealed that the development at the former Rosia Water Tanks site would have to be \"bail[ed] out from public funds.\" The government announced that: In November 2011, the government indicated that of the 341 apartments that had been sold at Nelson's View, Bayview, and Cumberland Terraces, 239 of the residences had been sold on \"co-ownership\" terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "3253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3253", "title": "Running amok", "text": "Running amok\n\nRunning amok, sometimes referred to as simply amok or gone amok, also spelled amuk, from the Southeast Asian Austronesian languages (especially Malaysian and Indonesian), is \"an episode of sudden mass assault against people or objects usually by a single individual following a period of brooding that has traditionally been regarded as occurring especially in Malay culture but is now increasingly viewed as psychopathological behavior\". The syndrome of \"Amok\" is found in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV TR). The phrase is often used in a less serious manner when describing something that is wildly out of control or causing a frenzy (e.g., a dog tearing up the living room furniture might be termed as \"running amok\").\n\nAmok originated from the Malaysian/Indonesian word \"meng-âmuk\", which when roughly defined means \"to make a furious and desperate charge\". According to Malaysian and Indonesian cultures, amok was rooted in a deep spiritual belief. They believed that amok was caused by the \"hantu belian\", which was an evil tiger spirit that entered one’s body and caused the heinous act. As a result of the belief, those in Indonesian culture tolerated amok and dealt with the after-effects with no ill will towards the assailant.\n\nAlthough commonly used in a colloquial and less-violent sense, the phrase is particularly associated with a specific sociopathic culture-bound syndrome in the cultures of Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei. In a typical case of \"running amok\", an individual (often male), having shown no previous sign of anger or any inclination to violence, will acquire a weapon (traditionally a sword or dagger, but presently any of a variety of weapons) and in a sudden frenzy, will attempt to kill or seriously injure anyone he encounters and himself. Amok typically takes place in a well populated or crowded area. Amok episodes of this kind normally end with the attacker being killed by bystanders or committing suicide, eliciting theories that amok may be a form of intentional suicide in cultures where suicide is heavily stigmatized. Those who do not commit suicide and are not killed typically lose consciousness, and upon regaining consciousness, claim amnesia.\n\nAn early Western description of the practice appears in the journals of Captain James Cook, a British explorer, who encountered amok firsthand in 1770 during a voyage around the world. Cook writes of individuals behaving in a reckless, violent manner, without cause and \"indiscriminately killing and maiming villagers and animals in a frenzied attack.\"\n\nA widely accepted explanation links amok with male honor (amok by women and children is virtually unknown).\nRunning amok would thus be both a way of escaping the world (since perpetrators were normally killed or committed suicide) and re-establishing one's reputation as a man to be feared and respected.\n\n\"Running amok\" is used to refer to the behavior of someone who, in the grip of strong emotion, obtains a weapon and begins attacking people indiscriminately, often with multiple fatalities. An episode of amok may be triggered by a period of depression or highly aggressive behavior. The slang terms \"going postal\" or \"going ballistic\" are similar in scope.\nPolice describe such an event as a killing spree. If the individual is seeking death an alternate method is often \"suicide by cop\".\n\nAmok is often described as a culture-bound (or culture-specific) syndrome, which is a psychological condition whose manifestation is strongly shaped by cultural factors. Other reported culture-bound syndromes are latah and koro. Amok is also sometimes considered one of the subcategories of dissociative disorders (cross-cultural variant).\n\nIn 1849, amok was officially classified as a psychiatric condition based on numerous reports and case studies that showed the majority of individuals who committed amok were, in some sense, mentally ill. The modern DSM-IV method of classification of mental disorders contains two official types of amok disorder; beramok and amok. Beramok is considered to be the more common of the two and is associated with the depression and sadness resulting from a loss and the subsequent brooding process. Loss includes, but is not limited to, the death of a spouse or loved one, divorce, loss of a job, money, power, etc. Beramok is associated with mental issues of severe depression or other mood disorders. Amok, the rarer form, is believed to stem from rage, insult, or a vendetta against a person, society, or object for a wide variety of reasons. Amok has been more closely associated with psychosis, personality disorders, bipolar disorder, and delusions.\n\nEarly travelers in Asia sometimes describe a kind of military amok, in which soldiers apparently facing inevitable defeat suddenly burst into a frenzy of violence which so startled their enemies that it either delivered victory or at least ensured what the soldier in that culture considered an honourable death.\n\nAn example would be during the Battle of Bukit Chandu in Singapore during WWII when 41 outnumbered soldiers of the Malay Regiment, led by Adnan Saidi, charged and went all out against a 13 000 strong invading Japanese Army. They continued the fight armed with just knives and bayonets for three days before they were finally defeated.\n\nThis form of amok appears to resemble the Germanic \"Berserker\", the \"cafard\" or \"cathard\" (Polynesia), \"mal de pelea\" (Puerto Rico), and \"iich'aa\" (Navaho).\n\nIn contemporary Indonesia, the term \"amok\" (\"amuk\") generally refers not to individual violence, but to frenzied violence by mobs. Indonesians now commonly use the term 'gelap mata' (literally 'darkened eyes') to refer to individual amok. Laurens van der Post experienced the phenomenon in the East Indies and wrote in 1955:\n\nIn the Philippines, \"amok\" also means unreasoning murderous rage by an individual. In 1876, the Spanish governor-general of the Philippines José Malcampo coined the term \"juramentado\" for the behavior (from \"juramentar\" - \"to take an oath\"), surviving into modern Philippine languages as \"huramentado\". It has historically been linked with the Moro people of Mindanao, particularly in the Sulu Archipelago, in connection with societal and cultural pressures.\n\nNorse Berserkers and the Zulu battle trance are two other examples of the tendency of certain groups to work themselves up into a killing frenzy.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" Eleventh Edition, some notable cases have occurred among the Rajputs. In 1634, the eldest son of the raja of Jodhpur ran amok at the court of Shah Jahan, failing in his attack on the emperor, but killing five of his officials. During the 18th century, again, at Hyderabad (Sind), two envoys, sent by the Jodhpur chief in regard to a quarrel between the two states, stabbed the prince and twenty-six of his suite before they themselves fell.\n\n"}
{"id": "17608105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17608105", "title": "The Hobbit (film series)", "text": "The Hobbit (film series)\n\nThe Hobbit is a film series consisting of three high fantasy adventure films directed by Peter Jackson. They are based on the 1937 novel \"The Hobbit\" by J. R. R. Tolkien, with large portions of the trilogy inspired by the appendices to \"The Return of the King\", which expand on the story told in \"The Hobbit\", as well as new material and characters written especially for the films. Together they act as a prequel to Jackson's \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy. The films are subtitled \"\" (2012), \"\" (2013), and \"\" (2014).\n\nThe screenplay was written by Fran Walsh, Philippa Boyens, Jackson, and Guillermo del Toro, who was originally chosen to direct before his departure from the project. The films take place in the fictional world of Middle-earth sixty years before the beginning of \"The Lord of the Rings\", and follow hobbit Bilbo Baggins (Martin Freeman), who is convinced by the wizard Gandalf the Grey (Ian McKellen) to accompany thirteen dwarves, led by Thorin Oakenshield (Richard Armitage), on a quest to reclaim the Lonely Mountain from the dragon Smaug (voiced by Benedict Cumberbatch). The films also expand upon certain elements from the novel and other source material, such as Gandalf's investigation at Dol Guldur, and the pursuit of Azog and Bolg, who seek vengeance against Thorin and his kindred.\n\nThe films feature an ensemble cast that also includes James Nesbitt, Ken Stott, Evangeline Lilly, Lee Pace and Luke Evans, with several actors reprising their roles from \"The Lord of the Rings\", including Cate Blanchett, Orlando Bloom, Ian Holm, Christopher Lee, Hugo Weaving, Elijah Wood, and Andy Serkis. The films also feature Manu Bennett, Sylvester McCoy, Stephen Fry, Mikael Persbrandt, Barry Humphries, and Lawrence Makoare. Also returning for production, among others, were illustrators John Howe and Alan Lee, art director Dan Hennah, cinematographer Andrew Lesnie, and composer Howard Shore, while props were again crafted by Weta Workshop, with visual effects managed by Weta Digital.\n\nThe first film in the series premiered at the Embassy Theatre in Wellington, New Zealand on 28 November 2012. One hundred thousand people lined the red carpet on Courtenay Place, and the entire event was broadcast live on television in New Zealand and streamed over the Internet. The second film of the series premiered at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, California on 2 December 2013. The third and final film premiered at the Odeon Leicester Square in London on 1 December 2014.\n\nThe series was one of the highest-grossing film series of all time, and earned more money than \"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy. Although critically considered to be inferior to \"The Lord of the Rings,\" it was nominated for various awards and won several, though not as many as its predecessor series.\n\nJackson and Walsh originally expressed interest in filming \"The Hobbit\" in 1995, then envisaging it as part one of a trilogy (part two would have been based on \"The Lord of the Rings\"). Frustration arose when Jackson's producer, Harvey Weinstein, discovered that Saul Zaentz had production rights to \"The Hobbit\", but that distribution rights still belonged to United Artists (which had kept those rights, believing that filmmakers would prefer to adapt \"The Hobbit\" rather than \"The Lord of the Rings\"). The United Artists studio and its parent corporation Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was for sale in 2005, but Weinstein's attempts to buy the movie rights from the studio were unsuccessful. Weinstein asked Jackson to press on with adapting \"The Lord of the Rings\". Ultimately, \"The Lord of the Rings\" was produced by New Line Cinema, not the Weinsteins, and their rights to film \"The Hobbit\" were set to expire in 2010. In September 2006, the new ownership and management of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer expressed interest in teaming up with New Line and Jackson to make \"The Hobbit\".\nIn March 2005, Jackson launched a lawsuit against New Line, claiming he had lost revenue from merchandising, video and computer games releases associated with \"\". He did not seek a specific settlement, but requested an audit to see whether New Line had withheld money owed him. Although Jackson wanted it settled before he would make the film, he felt the lawsuit was minor and that New Line would still let him make \"The Hobbit\". New Line co-founder Robert Shaye was annoyed with the lawsuit and said in January 2007 that Jackson would never again direct a film for New Line, accusing him of being greedy. MGM boss Harry Sloan halted development, as he wanted Jackson to be involved. By August, after a string of flops, Shaye tried to repair his relationship with the director. He said, \"I really respect and admire Peter and would love for him to be creatively involved in some way in \"The Hobbit\".\" The following month, New Line was fined $125,000 for failing to provide requested accounting documents.\n\nOn 16 December 2007, New Line and MGM announced that Jackson would be executive producer of \"The Hobbit\" and its sequel. The two studios would co-finance the film and the latter studio (via 20th Century Fox) would distribute the film outside North America—New Line's first ever such deal with another major studio. Each film's budget was estimated at US$150 million, which compares to the US$94 million budget for each of the films in Jackson's \"Lord of the Rings\" trilogy. After completion of the merger of New Line Cinema with Warner Bros. in February 2008, the two parts were announced as scheduled for release in December 2011 and 2012. Producer Mark Ordesky, the executive producer of \"The Lord of the Rings\", planned to return to supervise the prequels. Jackson explained he chose not to direct because it would have been unsatisfying to compete with his previous films.\n\nIn February 2008, the Tolkien Estate (through The Tolkien Trust, a British charity) and HarperCollins Publishers filed a suit against New Line for breach of contract and fraud and demanded $220 million in compensation for \"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy. The suit claimed New Line had only paid the Estate an upfront fee of $62,500, despite the trilogy's gross of an estimated $6 billion worldwide from box office receipts and merchandise sales. The suit claimed the Estate was entitled to 7.5% of all profits made by any Tolkien films, as established by prior deals. The suit also sought to block the filming of \"The Hobbit\". The suit was settled in September 2009 for an undisclosed amount. However the Tolkien Trust's 2009 accounts show that it received a payment from New Line Cinema of £24 million, (a little over US$38 million). This amount was the Trust's estimated share in respect of the gross profit participation due for the films based on \"The Lord of the Rings\". \nChristopher Tolkien said: \"The trustees regret that legal action was necessary but are glad that this dispute has been settled on satisfactory terms that will allow the Tolkien Trust properly to pursue its charitable objectives. The trustees acknowledge that New Line may now proceed with its proposed film of The Hobbit.\"\n\nDespite the legal suits, development proceeded and in April 2008, Guillermo del Toro was hired to direct the film. Del Toro has said he was a fan of Jackson's trilogy and had discussed directing a film adaptation of \"Halo\" with him in 2005. Though that project stalled, they kept in contact. In a 2006 interview, del Toro was quoted saying \"I don't like little guys and dragons, hairy feet, hobbits ... I don't like sword and sorcery, I hate all that stuff\". After he signed on to direct in April 2008, Del Toro posted on TheOneRing.net forums that he had been enchanted by \"The Hobbit\" as a child, but found that Tolkien's other books \"contain[ed] geography and genealogy too complex for my prepubescent brain\". In taking the job of director, del Toro was now \"reading like a madman to catch up with a whole new land, a continent of sorts—a cosmology created by brilliant philologist turned Shaman\". He also posted that his appreciation of Tolkien was enhanced by his knowledge of the fantasy genre and the folklore research he had undertaken while making his own fantasy films.\n\nPre-production began around August 2008, with del Toro, Jackson, Walsh and Philippa Boyens writing the scripts. Del Toro collaborated with Jackson, Walsh and Boyens via videoconferencing and flew every three weeks, back and forth from Los Angeles (where some of the designs were done) to New Zealand to visit them. Del Toro spent his mornings writing and afternoons looking at material related to Tolkien to help him understand the writer's work. He watched World War I documentaries and asked for book recommendations from Jackson, who is a collector of World War I memorabilia. Del Toro felt Tolkien's experiences in that war influenced his stories.\n\nBy November 2008, del Toro had said that he, Jackson, Walsh and Boyens would realise something new about the story every week and the script was continually changing. The writing hours increased to twelve each day, as they dedicated three weeks to finally deciding the films' structures. During the first few months of 2009, writing would start from 8:30 am and end at 3:00 pm when del Toro would meet with Weta (i.e., Weta Workshop and Weta Digital film effects companies). Completion of the story outlines and treatments ended in March 2009 and the studios approved the start of writing the screenplay. Filming was expected to take place throughout 2010 in New Zealand, with del Toro renovating the Hobbiton sets near Matamata. For his part, Jackson had kept the Rivendell scale model and the Bag End set (which he has used as a guest house) from the trilogy. During the middle of the shoot, there was expected to be a break which would have allowed del Toro to edit \"The Hobbit\" while sets would be altered for the second film. The director expected the shoot to last 370 days.\n\nJackson revealed in late November 2009 that he anticipated that the script for \"The Hobbit\" would not be finished until the beginning of 2010, delaying the start of production until the middle of that summer (several months later than previously anticipated). The announcement created doubts about whether the film would make its previously-announced release dates of December 2011 and December 2012. Jackson reiterated that no casting decisions had been made. On 22 January 2010, Alan Horn said the first film would likely not be released until the fourth quarter of 2012.\n\nDel Toro and Jackson had a positive working relationship, in which they compromised on disagreements for the benefit of the film. Del Toro believed he would be able to shoot the film himself, although Jackson noted he had similar hopes for filming all of his trilogy and offered to help as second unit director. Del Toro planned on shooting the film in the trilogy's 2.35:1 aspect ratio, rather than his signature 1.85:1 ratio. He hoped to collaborate again with cinematographer Guillermo Navarro. In 2008, he said:\n\nDel Toro shares Jackson's passion for scale models and background paintings, though he wanted to increase the use of animatronics; \"We really want to take the state-of-the-art animatronics and take a leap ten years into the future with the technology we will develop for the creatures in the movie. We have every intention to do for animatronics and special effects what the other films did for virtual reality.\" Spectral Motion (\"Hellboy\", \"Fantastic Four\") was among those del Toro wanted to work with again. Some characters would have been created by mixing computer-generated imagery with animatronics and some would have been created solely with animatronics or animation. Gollum would be entirely digital again; as del Toro noted, \"if it ain't broke, why fix it?\"\n\nDel Toro said that he interpreted \"The Hobbit\" as being set in a \"world that is slightly more golden at the beginning, a very innocent environment\", and that the film would need to \"[take] you from a time of more purity to a darker reality throughout the film, but [in a manner] in the spirit of the book\". He perceived the main themes as loss of innocence, which he likened to the experience of England after World War I, and greed, which he said Smaug and Thorin Oakenshield represent. Bilbo Baggins reaffirms his personal morality during the story's third act as he encounters Smaug and the Dwarves' greed. He added, \"The humble, sort of a sturdy moral fibre that Bilbo has very much represents the idea that Tolkien had about the little English man, the average English man\", and the relationship between Bilbo and Thorin would be the heart of the film. The Elves will also be less solemn.\n\nDel Toro met concept artists John Howe and Alan Lee, Weta Workshop head Richard Taylor, and make-up artist Gino Acevedo in order to keep continuity with the previous films, and he also hired comic book artists to complement Howe's and Lee's style on the trilogy, including Mike Mignola and Wayne Barlowe, who began work around April 2009. He has also considered looking at Tolkien's drawings and using elements of those not used in the trilogy. As Tolkien did not originally intend for the magic ring Bilbo finds to be the all-powerful talisman of evil it is revealed to be in \"The Lord of the Rings\", del Toro said he would address its different nature in the story, but not so much as to draw away from the story's spirit. Each Dwarf would need to look different from the others. Del Toro would have redesigned the Goblins and Wargs and the Mirkwood spiders would also have looked different from Shelob. Del Toro felt the Wargs had to be changed because \"the classical incarnation of the demonic wolf in Nordic mythology is not a hyena-shaped creature\".\n\nDel Toro also wanted the animals to speak so that Smaug's speech would not be incongruous, though he explained portraying the talking animals would be more about showing that other characters can understand them. Smaug would not have a \"snub Simian [mouth] in order to achieve a dubious lip-synch\". Del Toro stated that Smaug would be the first character design begun and the last to be approved.\n\nDel Toro and Jackson considered the sudden introduction of Bard the Bowman and Bilbo's unconsciousness during the Battle of the Five Armies to be \"less cinematic moments\" reminiscent of the novel's greater \"fairy tale world\" than \"The Lord of the Rings\", and they would change them to make \"The Hobbit\" feel more like the trilogy. However, del Toro did say he considered some of these moments iconic and would require the \"fairy tale logic [to] work as is\".\n\nSeveral actors were considered by del Toro for roles in the film. He wrote the part of Beorn specifically for American actor Ron Perlman. Del Toro had originally considered asking Perlman to voice the dragon Smaug, but decided against this. Del Toro met with English actor Brian Blessed to discuss the possibility of him playing Thorin Oakenshield. The director later stated that he thought Ian McShane \"would make the most perfect dwarf\". Frequent del Toro collaborator Doug Jones said that he would love to play the Elvenking Thranduil, but del Toro later stated that he had another role (or roles) in mind for the actor. Del Toro was the one who originally pushed to cast Sylvester McCoy as Radagast the Brown, a choice Peter Jackson later followed. While del Toro initially wanted Ian Holm to reprise the role of Bilbo Baggins, he also said that he \"absolutely\" supported the casting of Martin Freeman as the character, and wanted all other returning \"Lord of the Rings\" characters to be played by the original actors where possible.\n\nIn December 2012, Philippa Boyens expressed regret that del Toro's version of the film remained unmade. She revealed that it would have had a different script and visual elements, and would more closely have resembled a fairy tale. Boyens stated that the most significant script change was to Bilbo's characterisation: \"It shifted and changed into someone who, rather than being slightly younger and more innocent in the world, once had a sense of longing for adventure and has lost it and become fussy and fusty.\"\n\nIn 2010, del Toro left the project because of ongoing delays. On 28 May he explained at a press conference that owing to MGM's financial troubles the \"Hobbit\" project had then not been officially green-lit at the time. \"There cannot be any start dates until the MGM situation gets resolved ... We have designed all the creatures. We've designed the sets and the wardrobe. We have done animatics and planned very lengthy action sequences. We have scary sequences and funny sequences and we are very, very prepared for when it's finally triggered, but we don't know anything until MGM is solved.\" Two days later, del Toro announced at TheOneRing.net that \"In light of ongoing delays in the setting of a start date for filming\", he would \"take leave from helming\", further stating that \"the mounting pressures of conflicting schedules have overwhelmed the time slot originally allocated for the project. ... I remain an ally to it and its makers, present and future, and fully support a smooth transition to a new director\". Reports began to surface around the Internet about possible directors; apparently the studios wanted Jackson, but such names as Neill Blomkamp, Brett Ratner, David Yates and David Dobkin were mentioned.\n\nHowever, this incident received negative reaction from many \"Hobbit\" fans, who were angry at MGM for delaying the project. They also tried willing the studio to sell their rights to Warner Bros. On 27 July, del Toro responded to these angry fans, saying that \"it wasn't just MGM. These are very complicated movies, economically and politically.\"\n\nOn 25 June 2010, Jackson was reported to be in negotiations to direct the two-part film. On 15 October 2010, New Line Cinema and Warner Bros. confirmed that \"The Hobbit\" was to proceed filming with Jackson as director and that the film would be in 3D. As well as confirming Jackson as director, the film was reported to be greenlit, with principal photography to begin in February 2011. Jackson stated that \"Exploring Tolkien's Middle-earth goes way beyond a normal film-making experience. It's an all-immersive journey into a very special place of imagination, beauty and drama.\"\n\nOn 24 September 2010, the International Federation of Actors issued a Do Not Work order, advising members of its member unions (including the Screen Actors Guild) that \"The producers ... have refused to engage performers on union-negotiated agreements.\" This would subject actors who work on the film to possible expulsion from the union. In response, Warner Bros. and New Line Cinema considered taking the production elsewhere, with Jackson mentioning the possibility of filming in Eastern Europe.\n\nPartly out of fear for the Tolkien tourism effect, on 25 October 2010, thousands of New Zealanders organised protest rallies imploring that production remain in New Zealand, arguing that shifting production to locations outside New Zealand would potentially cost the country's economy up to $1.5 billion. After two days of talks with the New Zealand government (including involvement by Prime Minister John Key), Warner Bros. executives decided on 27 October to film \"The Hobbit\" in New Zealand as originally planned. In return, the government agreed to introduce legislation to remove the right of workers to organise trade unions in the film production industry and to give money to big budget films made in New Zealand. The legislation reversed a decision by the New Zealand Supreme Court called \"Bryson v Three Foot Six Ltd\" holding that under the Employment Relations Act 2000, a model maker named Mr Bryson was an \"employee\" who could organise a union to defend his interests. The Employment Relations (Film Production Work) Amendment Bill passed all three readings under urgency on 29 October 2010, 66 votes in favour to 50 opposed. The government's legislation has been criticised as breaching the International Labour Organization's core ILO Convention 87 on freedom of association, and giving an unfair subsidy to protect multinational business interests.\n\nSome have subsequently called the price (further financial subsidies and specific laws made for the producers' benefit) that New Zealand had to pay to retain the movie 'extortionate'. It was also argued that the discussion had occurred in a climate of 'hyperbole and hysteria'.\n\nIn February 2013, emails and documents released under orders of the Ombudsman showed that the union representing actors had already reached an agreement with Warner two days before 20 October protest, but Warner refused to confirm the deal publicly. One union representative said those on the march were 'patsies' that had been fooled into thinking the production would be taken offshore. Further emails released showed Government ministers knew a deal had been reached a week before the protest, despite claiming negotiations were still happening.\n\nThe project had been envisaged as two parts since 2006, but the proposed contents of the parts changed during development. MGM expressed interest in a second film in 2006, set between \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\". Jackson concurred, stating that \"one of the drawbacks of \"The Hobbit\" is its relatively lightweight compared to \"LOTR\" [\"The Lord of the Rings\"] ... There's a lot of sections in which a character like Gandalf disappears for a while – he references going off to meet with the White Council, who are actually characters like Galadriel and Saruman and people that we see in \"Lord of the Rings\". He mysteriously vanishes for a while and then comes back, but we don't really know what goes on.\" Jackson was also interested in showing Gollum's journey to Mordor and Aragorn setting a watch on the Shire.\n\nAfter his hiring in 2008, del Toro confirmed the sequel would be about \"trying to reconcile the facts of the first movie with a slightly different point of view. You would be able to see events that were not witnessed in the first.\" He also noted the story must be drawn from only what is mentioned in \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Lord of the Rings\", as they do not have the rights to \"The Silmarillion\" and \"Unfinished Tales\". Del Toro also added (before writing began) that if they could not find a coherent story for the second film, they would just film \"The Hobbit\", stating \"\"The Hobbit\" is better contained in a single film and kept brisk and fluid with no artificial 'break point'.\" By November 2008, he acknowledged that the book was more detailed and eventful than people may remember. He decided to abandon the \"bridge film\" concept, feeling that it would be better for the two parts to contain only material from \"The Hobbit\":\nDel Toro said that he was faced with two possible places to split the story, including Smaug's defeat. He noted the second film would need to end by leading directly into \"\". In June 2009, del Toro revealed he had decided where to divide the story based on comments from fans about signifying a change in Bilbo's relationship with the dwarves. The second film's story would also have depended on how many actors could have reprised their roles.\n\nAlthough \"The Hobbit\" was originally made as a two-part film, on 30 July 2012, Jackson confirmed plans for a third film, turning his adaptation of \"The Hobbit\" into a trilogy. According to Jackson, the third film would make extensive use of the appendices that Tolkien wrote to expand the story of Middle-Earth (published in the back of \"The Return of the King\"). While the third film, which as its title indicates, depicts the Battle of the Five Armies, largely made use of footage originally shot for the first and second films, it required additional filming as well. The second film was retitled \"The Desolation of Smaug\" and the third film was titled \"There and Back Again\" in August 2012. On 24 April 2014, the third film was renamed \"The Battle of the Five Armies\". On the title change, Jackson said, \"\"There and Back Again\" felt like the right name for the second of a two film telling of the quest to reclaim Erebor, when Bilbo's arrival there, and departure, were both contained within the second film. But with three movies, it suddenly felt misplaced—after all, Bilbo has already arrived \"there\" in the \"Desolation of Smaug\"\". Shaun Gunner, the chairman of The Tolkien Society, supported the decision: \"‘\"The Battle of the Five Armies\"’ much better captures the focus of the film but also more accurately channels the essence of the story.\"\n\nThe following is a list of cast members who voiced or portrayed characters appearing in \"The Hobbit\" films.\n\nIn early October 2010, it was confirmed by the studio that Martin Freeman had been cast in the role of Bilbo Baggins. It was revealed that he had earlier been approached by the producers to play a role in the films, but was forced to turn it down because of scheduling conflicts with the BBC television series \"Sherlock\". At the time, Freeman was quoted as saying, \"[I]f something could be worked out, that would be great. I did it [turned down the role] with a heavy heart, definitely.\" On his casting, Peter Jackson was quoted as saying, \"Despite the various rumours and speculation surrounding this role, there has only ever been one Bilbo Baggins for us. There are a few times in your career when you come across an actor who you know was born to play a role, but that was the case as soon as I met Martin Freeman. He is intelligent, funny, surprising and brave—exactly like Bilbo and I feel incredibly proud to be able to announce that he is our Hobbit.\"\n\nLater in October, it was revealed that several other cast members had joined the project, including Richard Armitage as Thorin Oakenshield, Graham McTavish as Dwalin, Aidan Turner as Kíli, Mark Hadlow as Dori, John Callen as Óin, Stephen Hunter as Bombur and Peter Hambleton as Glóin. On the casting of Armitage, Jackson was quoted as saying, \"Richard is one of the most exciting and dynamic actors working on screen today and we know he is going to make an amazing Thorin Oakenshield. We cannot wait to start this adventure with him and feel very lucky that one of the most beloved characters in Middle Earth is in such good hands.\" McTavish was quoted on his casting, \"I think that I would be very lucky indeed if ever again in my career, I was offered an opportunity that was going to be so iconic in its influence and scale with regards to \"The Hobbit\". I can't think of anything comparable.\" Following McTavish's casting, scheduling conflicts arose while he was working on \"\", resulting in the game's storyline being modified so that McTavish could go to New Zealand to work on the film. On the casting of Turner, Jackson stated, \"Aidan is a wonderfully gifted young actor who hails from Ireland. I'm sure he will bring enormous heart and humor to the role of Kíli.\" On the casting of Hadlow, Jackson said, \"I have worked with Mark Hadlow on many projects [\"Meet the Feebles\" and \"King Kong\"]; he is a fantastic actor. I am thrilled to be working with [him] on these movies.\" Hadlow also plays Bert the Stone-troll. On his casting Callen stated, \"I did wonder about my casting and how they had made the choice—maybe the long hair and the beard sold it, I thought. But now that has all gone. Given that Óin is almost 200 years old I can presume only that it was the age.\" On being cast in the role, Hunter said, \"Being cast in \"The Hobbit\" is really exciting and really an honour. I auditioned for the original \"Lord of the Rings\" way back when I signed with my agent in New Zealand. When I saw the films I thought, 'Man, I so want to do \"The Hobbit\".'\"\n\nOn 1 November 2010, Jackson confirmed that James Nesbitt and Adam Brown had been added to the cast to play Bofur and Ori respectively. It was previously reported that Nesbitt was in negotiations for a part in the film. Jackson was quoted on Nesbitt's casting as saying, \"James's charm, warmth and wit are legendary as is his range as an actor in both comedic and dramatic roles. We feel very lucky to be able to welcome him as one of our cast.\" Nesbitt's daughters also appear in the film series as Sigrid and Tilda, the daughters of Bard the Bowman. Commenting on Brown's casting, Jackson was quoted as saying, \"Adam is a wonderfully expressive actor and has a unique screen presence. I look forward to seeing him bring Ori to life.\" The role also marked Brown's first film appearance.\n\nOn 7 December 2010, it was revealed that several other cast members had joined the project, including Cate Blanchett as Galadriel, Sylvester McCoy as Radagast the Brown, Mikael Persbrandt as Beorn, William Kircher as Bifur, Ken Stott as Balin and Jed Brophy as Nori. Blanchett was the first returning cast member from \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy to be cast in the films, even though her character does not appear in the novel. On her casting, Jackson said, \"Cate is one of my favorite actors to work with and I couldn't be more thrilled to have her reprise the role she so beautifully brought to life in the earlier films.\" McCoy, the former \"Doctor Who\" star, who appeared alongside McKellen in a Royal Shakespeare Company's King Lear, was confirmed to be in negotiations to play a major role as a \"wizard\" in October 2010, leading to speculation he could appear as Radagast the Brown. During the production of \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy, McCoy had been contacted about playing the role of Bilbo and was kept in place as a potential Bilbo for six months before Jackson went with Ian Holm. On the casting of Persbrandt, Jackson was quoted as saying, \"The role of Beorn is an iconic one and Mikael was our first choice for the part. Since seeing him read for the role we can't imagine anyone else playing this character.\" On the casting of Stott, Jackson commented \"Fran and I have long been fans of Ken's work and are excited he will be joining us on this journey.\" The casting of Brophy came after his collaboration with Jackson on several films, including \"Braindead\", \"Heavenly Creatures\", and all three \"Lord of the Rings\" films as various creatures.\n\nOn 7 January 2011, TheOneRing.net confirmed that Elijah Wood had joined the cast to reprise his role of Frodo Baggins in the project. As Frodo hadn't been born during the events of \"The Hobbit\", the inclusion of Frodo indicated that parts of the story would take place shortly before or during the events of \"The Lord of the Rings\". According to TheOneRing.net, \"As readers of 'The Hobbit' know, the tale of 'The Downfall of The Lord of the Rings' and 'The Hobbit or There and Back Again,' are contained in the fictional 'Red Book of Westmarch.' In Peter Jackson's LOTR films, the book is shown on screen and written in by Bilbo and Frodo and handed off to Samwise Gamgee ... The fictional book and either the telling from it or the reading of it, will establish Frodo in the film experiencing Bilbo's story. Viewers are to learn the tale of 'The Hobbit' as a familiar Frodo gets the tale as well.\"\nOn 10 January 2011, it was confirmed that Ian McKellen and Andy Serkis would reprise their respective roles of Gandalf the Grey and Gollum from \"The Lord of the Rings\" film trilogy. Although both actors were expected to return for their roles McKellen was previously quoted in July 2010 on TVNZ's \"Good Morning\" that: \"I'm not under contract and my time is running out. I don't want to give the producers the impression that I'm sitting waiting.\" It was later revealed that Serkis would also serve as second unit director on the films. Serkis stated, \"I think I understand Peter's sensibility and we have a common history of understanding Middle-earth. A lot of the crew from \"The Lord of the Rings\" was returning to work on \"The Hobbit\". There is really a sense of Peter wanting people around him who totally understand the material and the work ethic.\"\n\nOn 11 January 2011, it was confirmed that Christopher Lee would reprise his role as Saruman the White. Lee had originally said he would have liked to have shown how Saruman is first corrupted by Sauron, but would not be comfortable flying to New Zealand at his age. Lee went on to say that if a film were made, he would love to voice Smaug, as it would mean he could record his part in England and not have to travel. On 10 January 2011, it was reported that Lee had entered into negotiations to reprise the role of Saruman.\n\nOn 21 March 2011, Jeffrey Thomas joined the project as the character of Thrór, as did Mike Mizrahi as Thráin II.\n\nOn 4 April 2011, Bret McKenzie was added to the cast as Lindir. His father Peter McKenzie played the role of Elendil in \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nOn 22 April 2011, Jackson confirmed via Facebook that Ian Holm had been added to the cast as old Bilbo Baggins. During the early stages of pre-production, former director Guillermo del Toro indicated that he was interested in having Holm reprise the role of Bilbo, but acknowledged that he might be too old to take on such a physically demanding role. On his potential casting, del Toro stated, \"[Holm] certainly is the paragon we aspire to. He will be involved in some manner, I'm sure.\" He also indicated that he was open to the possibility of Holm narrating the films. On 10 January 2011, Deadline Hollywood reported that Holm had entered into negotiations to play the older Bilbo. On 3 March 2011, Holm revealed that he had been in talks with the producers about reprising the role, but that he had not heard back from them yet.\n\nIn the early stages of production, the role of Thranduil had been linked to actor Doug Jones but on 29 April 2011, Jackson reported on Facebook that the role had gone to Lee Pace. On his casting, Jackson said, \"Casting these Tolkien stories is very difficult, especially the Elven characters and Lee has always been our first choice for Thranduil. He's going to be great. We loved his performance in a movie called \"The Fall\" a few years ago and have been hoping to work with him since. When we were first discussing who would be right for Thranduil, Lee came into mind almost immediately.\"\n\nOn 30 April 2011, Jackson announced that Dean O'Gorman had been hired for the role of Fíli. Jackson stated, \"Dean's a terrific Kiwi actor, who I am thrilled to be working with.\" O'Gorman was a last minute replacement for Rob Kazinsky had originally been cast for the role in October 2010, but left the film on 24 April 2011 \"for personal reasons\".\n\nHugo Weaving's return to the role of Elrond was officially confirmed on 1 May 2011.\n\nOn 19 May 2011, Stephen Fry and Ryan Gage were confirmed to join the project as Master of Lake-town and Alfrid respectively. Fry spoke of his role, saying \"My character is an opportunity for sheer grossness ... [Peter Jackson] had me eating testicles ... gross appetites. I mustn't give too much away but I've got a bald cap and then on top of that a really bad combover wig and this wispy mustache and wispy beard and horrible blotchy skin and disgusting fingernails ... And generally speaking a really unappetising piece of work. And a coward to boot and very, very greedy.\" Gage was originally cast to play Drogo Baggins in December 2010, though according to Jackson, \"Ryan is a great young actor who we originally cast in a small role, but we liked him so much, we promoted him to the much larger Alfrid part\".\n\nOn 27 May 2011, Peter Jackson announced via Facebook that Orlando Bloom would reprise his role as Legolas. Bloom revealed on 25 April 2011 that he had been in contact with Jackson, who had given him a copy of the screenplay and said that there was a high probability that he would return. He was quoted as saying, \"I'm going to bet on it ... But I can't really talk too much about it because it's still sort of in the ether. But I would love to go back to work with Peter Jackson. It would be an honour.\"\n\n19 June 2011, it was revealed that several other cast members had joined the project, including Luke Evans in the role of Bard the Bowman, Evangeline Lilly as Tauriel, Barry Humphries as the Great Goblin and Benedict Cumberbatch as Smaug and The Necromancer. Cumberbatch portrayed both of his roles through motion capture, as did Humphries for his character. The casting of Cumberbatch was prematurely revealed by his \"Sherlock\" co-star Martin Freeman during the BAFTA Television Awards in May 2011. Speculations of his undisclosed role were further fuelled when Ian McKellen wrote on his blog that Philippa Boyens showed him Cumberbatch's screen test, stating that it was \"electrifying, vocally and facially\". Peter Jackson finally revealed on his Facebook page that Cumberbatch was set to play Smaug. Following this, it was also confirmed that he would be portraying The Necromancer as well.\n\nBilly Connolly joined the cast as Dáin II Ironfoot on 9 February 2012. Connolly said of his character \"... this guy will terrify the life out of you. I have a mohawk and tattoos on my head.\"\n\nIn addition, John Bell plays Bain, Manu Bennett plays Azog, Craig Hall plays Galion, Ben Mitchell plays Narzug, John Rawls plays Yazneg, Stephen Ure plays Fimbul and Grinnah, Kiran Shah plays a goblin scribe, and Stephen Colbert was cast in an undisclosed cameo. Conan Stevens was to play Bolg, but he eventually played a Gundabad Orc, also known as Keeper of Dungeons.\n\nPrincipal photography began on 21 March 2011 in Wellington, New Zealand. Filming took place at Wellington Stone Street Studios, the town of Matamata and at other undisclosed locations around New Zealand.\n\nThe costumes for each of the Dwarves included six wigs and eight beards, which were worn by the actors, stunt doubles, and stand-ins.\n\nDuring July 2011, scenes from \"The Hobbit\" were filmed at Pinewood Studios, England. Sets were constructed on the F Stage and N&P Stages for the shoot. Jackson recorded a video blog from the set, which featured Christopher Lee in full makeup and costume as Saruman.\n\nThe second block of shooting in New Zealand began at the end of August and was completed in December 2011.\n\nPrincipal photography ended on 6 July 2012, after 266 days of filming.\n\nDuring May 2013, additional filming for the second and third films began in New Zealand and lasted for 10 weeks.\n\nThe films were filmed in 3D using Red Epic cameras. According to a production diary video, 48 Epic cameras were used during the film's production. The production employed a specialty rig designed by 3ality Technica, using two cameras and a mirror in order to achieve an intraocular effect similar to that of human sight (the distance between the eyes). This is how the depth required for 3D film is achieved.\n\nIn April 2011, Jackson revealed through his Facebook page that he would film \"The Hobbit\" at 48 fps (frames per second) instead of the normal 24 fps.\n\nAdditionally, the films were filmed at a 5K resolution, native to the Red Epic cameras, which provides a more detailed picture than the conventional 4K resolution. The films were recorded digitally onto 128 GB solid-state drives that fit into the Red Epic camera.\n\nPeople for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) asked the New Zealand government to investigate allegations that 27 animals used for the film died due to poor living conditions. Claims also include sheep falling into sinkholes, chickens being mauled by unsupervised dogs, a horse falling over a steep embankment, and another one being left on the ground for three hours after being hobbled. PETA says that instead of \"vainly defending himself\", Peter Jackson should be giving a \"firm assurance that this will never happen again\". They also called Jackson a \"CGI master\", stating that he could easily make convincing CGI animals, instead of using actual ones.\nPeter Jackson denied these allegations in a press conference hours before the premiere of the first film stating that there was \"Absolutely none; no mistreatment, no abuse\". Warner Bros. also released a statement which joined Peter Jackson in denying the allegations, questioning the timing and claiming the primary source of the allegations could be traced to freelance animal wranglers who had been dismissed by the production over a year earlier \"for cause\".\n\nThe music of \"The Hobbit\" film series was composed, produced and (in the case of the first film) orchestrated and conducted by Howard Shore, who scored all three \"The Lord of the Rings\" films. Recording sessions for the first film began on 20 August 2012, at Abbey Road Studios. The second and third films were recorded in New Zealand.\n\nUnlike with the Lord of the Rings, which only received an expanded release after 2005, each Hobbit soundtrack was released in a two-CD, two-hour release. The music features 64-70 new leitmotives, about 40 leitmotives returning from The Lord of the Rings, and a variety of non-orchestral instruments, including bagpipes, didgeridoos and a whole Gamelan orchestra.\n\nThe score for \"An Unexpected Journey\" was primarily played by the London Philharmonic Orchestra (as it was for \"The Lord of the Rings\"), London Voices and Tiffin' Boys choir, although Jackson and Shore chose the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra (which participated in scoring a large section of the Fellowship of the Ring) to score \"The Desolation of Smaug\" and \"The Battle of the Five Armies\". Additional musicians, including two gamelan orchestras, and the London Voices and Tiffin' boys choir, augmented the orchestra. Musicians Neil Finn and Ed Sheeran contributed to the score as well as some actors including Richard Armitage and the cast of dwarves, James Nesbitt and Barry Humphries (in the extended edition). Clara Sanabras and Grace Davidson sang the soprano parts.\n\nAs with \"The Lord of the Rings\" trilogy, Weta Digital was involved in the creation of special effects. However, as opposed to \"The Lord of the Rings\", where the actors who played Orcs portrayed them through full-body makeup and prosthetics, many of those actors in \"The Hobbit\" had computer-generated faces in order to portray them. Many of the actors who played Orcs in this trilogy portrayed them through performance capture. \n\nThe world premiere for \"The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey\" took place on 28 November 2012 in Wellington, New Zealand, with the film's wide release in New Zealand on 12 December. 100,000 people lined the red carpet on Wellington's Courtenay Place for the premiere. The entire event was also broadcast live on TV3 and streamed over the Internet. Tickets to the film's midnight screenings in New Zealand sold out within minutes of going on sale, prompting director Peter Jackson to say that the fans who missed out \"may get something special\" which could include getting to see the film \"possibly even a minute or two before anyone else\". The film was released on 13 December 2012 in the United Kingdom and 14 December 2012 for some other parts of the world. It has a runtime of 169 minutes (2 hours and 49 minutes). The film grossed over $1 billion at the box office, surpassing both \"\" and \"\" nominally.\n\n\"The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug\" premiered on 2 December 2013 in Los Angeles, and was released internationally from 11 December 2013. It grossed over $958 million in box office worldwide. Like the previous installment, it surpassed both \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" and \"The Two Towers\" in nominal box office performance.\n\nThe final film \"The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies\" premiered on 11 December 2014 in London, and was released internationally from 12 December 2014. The release for the third film was originally set for an 18 July 2014 release, but was pushed back when \"\", was announced to be released on the same date, as direct competition to the third installment. It grossed over $956 million in worldwide level in box office, and as the previous two films, it surpassed both \"The Fellowship of the Ring\" and \"The Two Towers\" nominally, although it didn't manage to surpass the previous two films of the series.\n\n\"The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey\" was released on 3D Blu-ray, Blu-ray and DVD in United States on 19 March 2013, and was released in the United Kingdom on 8 April 2013. As of 7 July 2013, DVD/Blu-ray sales in the United States were reported to be around $29,527,413, with almost 3 million units sold. An Extended Edition containing 13 minutes of additional footage and original music was released on 3D Blu-ray, DVD and Blu-ray on 5 November 2013 in the US, and on 11 November 2013 in the UK.\n\n\"The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug\" was released on DVD, 3D Blu-ray and Blu-ray on 7 April 2014 in the United Kingdom and on 8 April 2014 in the United States. An Extended Edition containing 25 minutes of additional footage and original music was released on 3 November 2014 in the UK, and on 4 November 2014 in the US.\n\n\"The Hobbit: The Battle of The Five Armies\" was released on 3D Blu-ray, Blu-ray and DVD on 23 March 2015 in the United Kingdom and on 24 March in the United States. An Extended Edition of the film containing 20 minutes of additional footage and original music was released on 17 November 2015 in the United States and on 23 November in the United Kingdom.\n\n\"An Unexpected Journey\" has won the \"Technical Achievement\" award by the Houston Film Critics Society, who also nominated it for \"Best Original Song\", the award for \"Outstanding Virtual Cinematography\" by the Visual Effects Society, and the Empire Awards for \"Best Actor\" and \"Best Sci-Fi/Fantasy\". Among others, the film has also received three Academy Award nominations, a nomination from the Washington D.C. Area Film Critics Association, four nominations from the Broadcast Film Critics Association, six nominations from the Visual Effects Society, and three nominations from the Phoenix Film Critics Society.\n\nAt an industry event screening in April 2012, Peter Jackson showed a ten-minute clip of the film, and the new High Frame Rate 48 fps format received \"an underwhelming reaction at best\", while \"Variety\" stated that the footage \"looked distinctively sharper and more immediate than everything shown before it, giving the 3D smoother movement and crisp sharpness\". It also reported that it lost \"the cinematic glow of the industry-standard 24 fps\" and that \"human actors seemed overlit and amplified in a way that many compared to modern sports broadcasts ... and daytime television\". One projectionist complained that \"it looked like a made-for-TV movie\".\n\nPeter Jackson claimed that the poor reception \"wasn't particularly surprising\" because \"it does take you a while to get used to it. Ten minutes is sort of marginal, it probably needed a little bit more\". However, once the entire film was released, many critics retained their complaints. While many noted the clarity and immediacy of the action scenes, they also criticised the picture quality as \"hyper-real,\" clear enough to detect \"painted sets\" and \"prosthetic noses\". Some critics did respond positively to the overall effect of the higher frame rate, saying it just takes a while to get used to – still allowing that the extra clarity can make some scenes look like \"actors on a set rather than a scene in a movie\".\n\n\"The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey\" was also released in the current 24 fps standard in many theatres, some of which had not yet switched from film to digital projection.\n\nOn 6 October 2011, Warner Bros. Consumer Products and U.S. toy company The Bridge Direct announced their partnership on worldwide master toy rights for \"The Hobbit\" films. The toy line will include action figures, playsets and role-play accessories like swords and battle axes representing the characters and weapons in the films.\n\nThe first wave of toy products hit store shelves in October 2012, ahead of the release of \"The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey\". U.S. retailers that carry the toy line include Toys \"R\" Us, Kmart, and Walmart. Games Workshop released miniatures from \"The Hobbit\" as part of The Lord of the Rings Strategy Battle Game. The company has had rights to produce miniatures from the original book for some years but has not released any lines, save for a stand-alone game based on the Battle of Five Armies, with original designs not related to \"The Lord of the Rings\" films.\n\nWhile a number of companies were vying for \"The Hobbit\" deal, Warner Bros. Consumer Products awarded the license to Bridge Direct partly because some of its execs and staffers had worked on \"The Lord of the Rings\" toy line during their tenure at other toy companies, including Toy Biz and Play Along. The Bridge Direct, run by toy business veteran Jay Foreman, is best known for toys such as Inkoos activity plush, and the Zhu Zhu Pets plush line.\n\nOn 16 December 2011, Warner Bros. Consumer Products and Lego announced the development of figures and play sets based on the upcoming adaptations of \"The Hobbit\" as well as \"The Lord of the Rings\". The launch of the \"Lego The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey\" was released to coincide with the release of the film adaptation's first part in December 2012.\n\nFollowing the expiration in 2008 of Electronic Arts' license to \"The Lord of the Rings\", Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment acquired the rights to develop a video game based on \"The Hobbit\". When Guillermo del Toro was set to direct he had stated that a video game, if it were to be made, would not be released to tie-in with \"The Hobbit\" film, but rather after their release. Del Toro had stated that while he would like to be involved in the video game's creation, making it at the same time as the film would complicate things due to a \"tight schedule\". In October 2011, Warner Bros. confirmed that a \"Hobbit\" video game would be released in 2012, before the first film's release. However, the studio did not confirm whether or not the game would be a tie-in with the film.\n\nWarner Brothers developed two free-to-play online strategy games in collaboration with Kabam for promoting the film series which were \"The Hobbit: Kingdoms of Middle Earth\" released for Android and iOS on 8 November 2012 and \"The Hobbit: Armies of the Third Age\" playable online on web browsers and as a Facebook app that was released on 21 March 2013.\n\nMonolith Productions developed \"Guardians of Middle-earth\", which was released on 4 December 2012 for PlayStation 3 via the PlayStation Network, and 5 December 2012 for Xbox 360 via Xbox Live Arcade. \"Guardians of Middle-earth\" delivers a multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game set in Middle-earth and crafted specifically for the console systems. Gamers can play in teams of up to 10 players in strategic five versus five competitive multiplayer battle arenas in the epic setting of Middle-earth. Players can develop and master more than 20 guardians, including Gandalf, Sauron, Gollum and many more, forming memorable and unlikely alliances with and against friends. Gamers can connect via an in-game voice communication system, as well as access a comprehensive online stat and leader board system where they can track friends’ victories and defeats. The game featured tie-ins to the released \"The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey\" motion picture which released on 14 December 2012.\n\nOn 25 November, Warner Brothers confirmed \"Lego The Hobbit\" video game. The game's levels only took place in the first two films. The game was released 8 April 2014.\n\nTwo video games were developed to coincide with the film's theatrical release.\n\nA tie-in fighting video game was released simultaneously with the film for Android and iOS platforms which received negative reviews from critics and users.\n\n\"Shadow of Mordor\" was a critically acclaimed Action-adventure video game released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 & Xbox One in October 2014 and for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on 21 November, nearly a week prior to \"\" world premiere in London, on 1 December. The events of the game take place directly after Sauron fled to Mordor, escaping The White Council, which was shown at the beginning of the film. The game was planned to act as an overlap between The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.\n\nIn January 2015 a fan going by the name of \"TolkienEditor\" recut the three Hobbit films into a single, four-and-a-half-hour film that removed much content that many fans had complained about. Much of this material was seen as superfluous, admittedly added by Jackson at the request of the studio, in order to make the films more appealing to a wider audience. This was quickly followed by several other fan made editions with different approaches and lengths.\n\n"}
{"id": "1827768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827768", "title": "The Swallow's Tail", "text": "The Swallow's Tail\n\nThe Swallow's Tail — Series of Catastrophes () was Salvador Dalí's last painting. It was completed in May 1983, as the final part of a series based on the mathematical catastrophe theory of René Thom.\n\nThom suggested that in four-dimensional phenomena, there are seven possible equilibrium surfaces, and therefore seven possible discontinuities, or \"elementary catastrophes\": fold, cusp, swallowtail, butterfly, hyperbolic umbilic, elliptic umbilic, and parabolic umbilic. \"The shape of Dalí’s Swallow’s Tail is taken directly from Thom’s four-dimensional graph of the same title, combined with a second catastrophe graph, the s-curve that Thom dubbed, 'the cusp'. Thom’s model is presented alongside the elegant curves of a cello and the instrument’s f-holes, which, especially as they lack the small pointed side-cuts of a traditional f-hole, equally connote the mathematical symbol for an integral in calculus: formula_1.\"\n\nIn his 1979 speech, \"Gala, Velázquez and the Golden Fleece\", presented upon his 1979 induction into the prestigious Académie des Beaux-Arts of the Institut de France, Dalí described Thom's theory of catastrophes as \"the most beautiful aesthetic theory in the world\". He also recollected his first and only meeting with René Thom, at which Thom purportedly told Dalí that he was studying tectonic plates; this provoked Dalí to question Thom about the railway station at Perpignan, France (near the Spanish border), which the artist had declared in the 1960s to be the center of the universe.\n\nThom reportedly replied, \"I can assure you that Spain pivoted precisely — not in the area of — but exactly there where the Railway Station in Perpignan stands today\". Dalí was immediately enraptured by Thom's statement, influencing his painting \"Topological Abduction of Europe — Homage to René Thom\", the lower left corner of which features an equation closely linked to the \"swallow’s tail\": formula_2 an illustration of the graph, and the term \"queue d'aronde\". The seismic fracture that transverses \"Topological Abduction of Europe\" reappears in \"The Swallow’s Tail\" at the precise point where the y-axis of the swallow's tail graph intersects with the S-curve of the cusp.\n"}
{"id": "8807652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8807652", "title": "Timeline of architectural styles", "text": "Timeline of architectural styles\n\nThis timeline shows the periods of various styles of architecture in a graphical fashion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25409258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25409258", "title": "Traditional witchcraft", "text": "Traditional witchcraft\n\nTraditional witchcraft is a term used to refer to a variety of contemporary forms of witchcraft. Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White described it as \"a broad movement of aligned magico-religious groups who reject any relation to Gardnerianism and the wider Wiccan movement, claiming older, more \"traditional\" roots. Although typically united by a shared aesthetic rooted in European folklore, the Traditional Craft contains within its ranks a rich and varied array of occult groups, from those who follow a contemporary Pagan path that is suspiciously similar to Wicca to those who adhere to Luciferianism\".\n\nAccording to British Traditional Witch Michael Howard, the term refers to \"any non-Gardnerian, non-Alexandrian, non-Wiccan or pre-modern form of the Craft, especially if it has been inspired by historical forms of witchcraft and folk magic\". Another definition was offered by Daniel A. Schulke, the current Magister of the Cultus Sabbati, when he proclaimed that \"traditional witchcraft\" \"refers to a coterie of initiatory lineages of ritual magic, spellcraft and devotional mysticism\".\n\nSome forms of traditional witchcraft are the Feri Tradition, Cochrane's Craft and the Sabbatic craft.\n\nIn 1981, three pseudonymous authors published \"Wicca: The Ancient Way\", in which they used \"traditional witchcraft\" to refer to Gardnerian Wicca.\n\nCochrane’s Craft, which is also known as Cochranianism, is a tradition of traditional witchcraft founded in 1951 by the English Witch Robert Cochrane, who himself claimed to have been taught it by some of his elderly family members, a claim that is disputed by some historians such as Ronald Hutton and Leo Ruickbie.\n\nCochranianism revolved around the veneration of the Horned God and the Mother Goddess, alongside seven polytheistic deities which are viewed as children of the God and Goddess. Cochranian Witchcraft has several features that separate it from other traditions such as Gardnerian Wicca, such as its emphasis on mysticism and philosophy, and Cochrane's attitude that it was not pagan, but only based upon paganism.\n\nThe Feri Tradition (which is a different tradition than Faery, Fairy, Faerie, or Vicia) is an initiatory tradition of Witchcraft distinct from Wicca. It is an ecstatic (rather than fertility) tradition stemming from the experience of Cora and Victor Anderson. Strong emphasis is placed on sensual experience and awareness, including sexual mysticism, which is not limited to heterosexual expression. The Feri Tradition has very diverse influences, such as Huna, Vodou, Faery lore, Kabbalah, Hoodoo, Tantra, and Gnosticism.\n\nAmong the distinguishing features of the Feri tradition is the use of a specific Feri power or energetic current. Feri witches often see themselves as \"fey\": outside social definitions and intentionally living within paradox. They believe that much of reality is unseen, or at least has uncertain boundaries. Within the tradition there is a deep respect for the wisdom of nature, a love of beauty, and an appreciation of bardic and mantic creativity.\n\nCore teachings acknowledged by most branches of the tradition include the concepts of the Three Souls and the Black Heart of Innocence, the tools of the Iron and Pearl Pentacle (now commonly also used by Reclaiming (Neopaganism)), as well as an awareness of \"energy ecology\", which admonishes practitioners to never give away or waste their personal power. Trance experiences and personal connection to the Divine are at the heart of this path, leading to a wide variety of practices throughout the larger body of the tradition.\n\nIn his study of Wicca, Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White characterised Feri as a \"Wiccan\" tradition. He noted however that some practitioners of modern Pagan Witchcraft restrict the term \"Wicca\" to British Traditional Wicca, in which case Feri would not be classified as \"Wicca\"; he deemed this exclusionary definition of the term to be \"unsuitable for academic purposes\". Instead, he characterised Feri as one form of Wicca which is nevertheless distinct from others, such as British Traditional Wicca, Dianic Wicca, and Stregheria.\n\nSabbatic craft, a term coined by Andrew D. Chumbley, is described as \"an initiatory line of spirit-power that can inform all who are receptive to its impetus, and whichwhen engaged with beyond namesmay be understood as a Key unto the Hidden Design of Arte.\" Chumbley sometimes referred to the \"Nameless Faith\", \"Crooked Path\", and \"Via Tortuosa\". He reserved \"Sabbatic Craft\" as a unifying term to refer to the \"convergent lineages\" of the \"Cultus Sabbati,\" a body of traditional witchcraft initiates. \n\nChumbley's works and those of Daniel Schulke on the Cultus Sabbati's \"ongoing tradition of sorcerous wisdom\" continue to serve as the prototypical reference works. The craft is not an ancient, pre-Christian tradition surviving into the modern age. It is a tradition rooted in \"cunning-craft,\" a patchwork of older magical practice and later Christian mythology.\n\nIn his grimoire \"Azoëtia\", Chumbley incorporated diverse iconography from ancient Sumerian, ancient Egyptian, Yezidi, and Aztec cultures. He spoke of a patchwork of ancestral and tutelary spirit folklore which he perceived amidst diverse \"Old Craft\" traditions in Britain as \"a gnostic faith in the Divine Serpent of Light, in the Host of the Gregori, in the Children of Earth sired by the Watchers, in the lineage of descent via Lilith, Mahazael, Cain, Tubal-cain, Naamah, and the Clans of the Wanderers.\" Schulke believed that folk and cunning-crafts of Britain absorbed multicultural elements from \"Freemasonry, Bible divination, Romany charms, and other diverse streams,\" what Chumbley called \"dual-faith observance,\" referring to a \"co-mingling of ‘native’ forms of British magic and Christianity\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1199100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199100", "title": "Unglued", "text": "Unglued\n\nUnglued is a expansion set, the first satirical, non-tournament-legal Magic: The Gathering expansion set released. It came out in August 1998. Its symbol is a cracked egg. Among the themes of the set were chicken, dice rolling and multiplayer Magic games.\n\n\"Unglued\" was originally conceived by then-lead Magic designer Joel Mick and fellow designer Bill Rose. Having helped in the creation of many of the expansion sets of the time, they began talking about cards which were cut from the expansion or were unplayable, based on the rules of the game. Thinking this through, they conceptualized an expansion where all the cards had no place in serious games.\n\n\"Unglued\" was not entirely a commercially successful expansion, but the unique basic land cards - the only cards from the set legal in tournaments - were and still are valuable. The set also developed a cult following among casual Magic fans, and two sequel sets have been released since, \"\" which came out in 2004, and \"\" in 2017.\n\nAll 94 cards in the \"Unglued\" set each had a single word printed on the bottom of the card. Alone these single words made little or no sense but when combined in proper numerical order with other cards in the series spell out the following secret message:\n\n\"Here are some cards that didn't make it to print: Socks of Garfield, Hot Monkey Love, Colonel's Secret Recipe, Squee's Play, Banned in France, Spoon, Disrobing Scepter, Butt Wolf, Lotus Roach, Sesame Efreet, Needless Reminder Text, Chicken Choker, Clockwork Doppelganger, Henway, HELP I'M TRAPPED IN CARTA MUNDI, Mad Cow, Poke, Lord of Wombats, Gratuitous Babe Art, Brothers' War Bonds, Dwarven Kickboxer, Mickey's Drunk, Pact with the Wastes, CoP:BO, Urza's Chia Pet, Shooter, Shoelace, When Chihuahuas Attack, Wall of Cookies, Kobold Ninja, Mucusaur, Kjeldoran Outhouse, Bear in the Woods, Dental , Flavatog, Cereal Killer.\"\n\nThe flavor texts of the cards Double Dip, Double Play, Double Deal, Double Take, and Double Cross form the following limerick:\n\nIn a duel and taking a lickin'...\nThe wizard exclaimed, \"I'm no chicken...\"\n\"I'm facing defeat...\"\n\"But the next time we meet...\"\n\"You're in for a nasty butt kickin'.\"\n\nWhich fit the mechanics of the cards, as all five not only did something for the player when played, but also created a benefit for him at the beginning of his next game against the same opponent.\n\n"}
{"id": "1676527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676527", "title": "Vernissage", "text": "Vernissage\n\nA vernissage (from French, originally meaning “varnishing”) is a term used for a preview of an art exhibition, which may be private, before the formal opening. If the vernissage is not open to the public, but only for invited guests, it is often called a \"private view\".\n\nAt official exhibitions in the nineteenth century, such as the Royal Academy summer exhibition, artists would give a finishing touch to their works by varnishing them. The custom of patrons and the élite of visiting the academies during the varnishing day prior to the formal opening of the exhibition gave rise to the tradition of celebrating the completion of an art work or a series of art works with friends and sponsors. In the twentieth century it became an opportunity to market the works on view to buyers and critics.\n\nThere is a comparable ceremonial ending of art exhibitions, called a \"finissage\", from the French word meaning \"finishing\". Larger art exhibitions may also have an event halfway through their residency called a \"midissage\". These latter terms are rare in English; they are more commonly used in German but not in French. \nThe term \"finissage\" was first used in this context in 2003 by Walter Hilliger and Sabine Sallarsaïb for Geheimat Multinational Gallery in Berlin, Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44762069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44762069", "title": "Vinicius and Tom", "text": "Vinicius and Tom\n\nVinicius (; sometimes \"Vinícius\") is the official mascot of the 2016 Summer Olympics, and Tom is the official mascot of the 2016 Summer Paralympics. Both events were held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The mascots were created by São Paulo-based animation company Birdo, which was selected by a national tender process that began in November 2012. Vinicius's design represents Brazilian wildlife, combining aspects of cats, monkeys, and birds, while Tom's design represents Brazilian plant life.\n\nTenders to create the mascots were only accepted from Brazilian design, illustration, animation, and advertising companies. The final designs were unanimously selected in August 2013 by a panel of judges comprising media professionals and representatives from various Olympic organizations. They were revealed to the public without names on 23 November 2014. Following a three-week online vote which ended on 14 December 2014, the public named the two mascots after Vinicius de Moraes and Tom Jobim, the co-writers of the 1962 bossa nova song \"The Girl from Ipanema\".\n\nMedia involving the mascots includes various merchandise and a series of two-minute animated shorts that were broadcast on Cartoon Network Brazil. Plush dolls of Vinicius were provided to coaches during the Olympic wrestling events to throw into the ring when they wished to challenge a referee's call, a practice many observers found humorous. All Paralympic medalists received a plush doll of Tom, with the leaves on Tom's head the same color as their respective medals. Some observers praised the appearance of the mascots, while others called them \"strange-looking\".\n\nTenders to create the mascots of the 2016 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, were requested in November 2012. The tender process involved design, illustration, animation, and advertising firms exclusively from Brazil, in order to ensure a \"Brazilian-flavoured design\". Directors from the Brazilian film festival Anima Mundi served as consultants in the process. The Rio 2016 organizers sent the agencies involved a list of 17 guidelines, among which were: ... the mascots need to reflect the local culture, but must also be universally understood; they should be aligned with the brand direction of the Rio 2016 logos and with the values of the Olympic and Paralympic movements; they must represent universal values, such as friendship, respect and fair play; they must speak to children in particular, but also resonate with adults. The organizers selected three proposed mascot designs and subjected them to a perception survey with children aged six to twelve in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. The organizers presented each of the three potential mascots to the children, who were unaware that the designs were candidates for the Rio 2016 mascots and were told only about their fictional backgrounds and personality traits. The children responded with comments such as \"'This is my friend', 'This one seems stuck-up', 'This one has cool hair'; and 'That one looks silly'\". The organizers used the children's comments to improve the mascot designs.\n\nIn August 2013, a panel of judges was formed to select the final mascots, comprising representatives of the organizers of Rio 2016, the International Olympic Committee, the Brazilian Olympic Committee, and the Brazilian Paralympic Committee, along with professionals in the fields of animation, illustration, advertising and market research. The judges unanimously chose a set of two mascots, one for the Olympic Games and the other for the Paralympic Games, created by Birdo, a São Paulo-based animation company. After a search of existing intellectual property confirmed that the mascot designs were original, Birdo and the organizers began to create content featuring the mascots, working in secrecy.\n\nOn 22 November 2014, in preparation for the unveiling, the Rio 2016 organizers held a press event in which costumes of the mascots of past Olympic and Paralympic Games visited Rio de Janeiro to meet the new mascots of the Rio 2016 Games. The mascots were revealed to the public on 23 November 2014, the names to be determined by an online public vote. There were three candidates in the vote:\nOn 24 November 2014, the mascots appeared publicly in costumes for the first time at the Ginásio Experimental Olímpico Juan Antonio Samaranch, a school in Rio motivated by the 2016 Summer Olympics and established for talented young athletes. After a three-week voting period, the names \"Vinicius and Tom\" won over \"Oba and Eba\" and \"Tiba Tuque and Esquindim\" on 14 December 2014, tallying 44 percent of 323,327 votes.\n\nIn wrestling, coaches may challenge a referee's call by throwing a predetermined \"soft object\" into the ring. Although this is normally a foam brick, wrestling rules do not specify what the soft object must be. During the 2016 Olympic wrestling events, the organizers provided coaches with soft plush dolls of Vinicius to throw into the ring when they wished to challenge a call. One wrestler's coach received a Vinicius doll with a red shirt, while the opponent's coach received one with a blue shirt.\n\nMany observers found the practice humorous. Luke Meredith, a writer for the Associated Press, wrote that it \"has already led to a few amusing moments where a coach, enraged with a call gone against his wrestler, had to reach for a tiny stuffed animal and fling it across the mat to get the referee's attention.\" NBC Sports commentators for their Olympic coverage began referring to Vinicius as \"the challenge mascot.\" Dustin Nelson, a news writer for the website \"Thrillist\", wrote that the mascot took \"a little of the anger out of a challenge.\" Jason Bryant, the in-house commentator for wrestling at the 2016 Olympics, was slightly surprised to see the practice at the Olympics, given the emphasis there on \"protocol\", but he eventually commented that it does not matter what the challenge object is, particularly if it has cultural significance to the location of the competition. Coach Mike Malinconico argued that the practice does not belong at the Olympic Games, stating, \"The fate of one of my athletes who has been training for this specific moment for four years hangs in the balance of a referee's error. And I have a stuffed animal in my hands.\"\n\nVinicius, named after Brazilian lyricist Vinicius de Moraes, is the Olympic mascot. Vinicius's design represents Brazilian wildlife, combining \"the agility of cats, sway of monkeys and grace of birds.\" The character's arms and legs can stretch unlimited distances. Vinicius's mission is \"to spread joy throughout the world and celebrate the friendship that flourishes between people from all over the world\" at the Olympic Games.\n\nTom, named after Brazilian musician Tom Jobim, is the Paralympic mascot. Tom's design represents the plants of Brazilian forests. Any object can be pulled out of the leaves on Tom's head. His mission is \"to inspire everybody to use creativity and determination to always reach further and have fun.\"\n\nAccording to their fictional backstories, Vinicius and Tom \"were both born from the joy of Brazilians\" after the International Olympic Committee selected Rio de Janeiro to host the 2016 Summer Olympics and Paralympics. Brand director Beth Lula stated that the mascots are intended to reflect the diversity of Brazil's culture and people. The mascots' namesakes, Vinicius de Moraes and Tom Jobim, co-wrote the 1962 bossa nova song \"The Girl from Ipanema\".\n\nA series of animated adventure shorts called \"Vinicius e Tom – Divertidos por Natureza\" (\"Vinicius and Tom – Fun by Nature\" or \"Vinicius and Tom – Natural Entertainers\") began broadcasting on Cartoon Network Brazil on 5 August 2015. The shorts are also available to view on the official website as well as on YouTube, as uploaded by the Organizing Committee's YouTube channel. The series consists of 32 two-minute episodes and is the third television cartoon series based on Olympic mascots and the first such cartoon created in the Americas. The show follows Vinicius and Tom as they live in Brazilian forests and cities. In the series, the mascots are occasionally joined by the \"Carioca Sisters\" (): Bela, Sol, and Vida.\n\nThe series is designed to promote the mascots. Turner Broadcasting System, the owner of Cartoon Network, invested US$750,000 in the series. Cartoon Network helped to coproduce the series, having won an open competition held by the Rio 2016 organizers to select a collaborator for the series. Brand director Beth Lula stated that the mascots \"are one of the principal methods of engaging the public with the Games. The cartoon will give them life, reinforcing the emotional link of the public with the event.\" Although the series is targeted towards children, Sylmara Multini, Director of Licensing and Retail for the Rio 2016 Organizing Committee, stated that it will attract adults too.\n\nThe mascots were included among the merchandise of the Rio 2016 Games, ranging from a Lego kit to life-size dolls. During the Paralympic events, medalists received stuffed toys of Tom, with the leaves on the dolls' heads colored in gold, silver, or bronze to correspond with their medals. The Lego kit featuring Vinicius and Tom is the first time Lego made a commercial version of the official mascots of the Games. An employee at a Rio 2016 merchandise store commented that the mascots were \"the most popular thing by far. ... Kids and adults all love them, especially Vinicius, he is the favourite.\"\n\nThe Rio 2016 Organizing Committee originally estimated that the mascots could make up 25 percent of licensed merchandise sales in Rio. Overall, merchandise sales were 11 percent higher than the original targets, according to Rio 2016 spokesperson Mario Andrada. Two products, a hat in the shape of Vinicius's head and a pair of Havaianas bearing Vinicius, were, respectively, the best-selling and second-best-selling merchandise items during the 2016 Summer Olympics. Reporting for state broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV), Lucrécia Franco at what was CCTV America back then commented that merchandise of the mascots, among other Olympic merchandise, has contributed to strengthened trade relations between China and Brazil.\n\nJulia Glum, in an article in the \"International Business Times\", wrote that the \"mascot for the Olympic Games is almost always strange-looking, and Rio de Janeiro is no exception. ... though they're by far not the craziest Olympic animals to ever exist ...\" In an article published by \"Mic\", Brianna Provenzano referred to the mascots as \"lovable\", describing their appearance as \"sweet and simple\" and highlighting their symbolisms for the animals and plants of Brazil. However, Charlotte Wilder, a writer on \"USA Today\"s sports column \"For The Win\", was unimpressed by Vinicius's design, stating, \"Whoever was in charge of coming up with this creature of the huge hands and feet did exactly what it looks like, which is mash up a bunch of animals, video game characters, and cartoons, stuff it with some synthetic filling, and call it day.\" Robert John Young, Professor of Wildlife Conservation at the University of Salford, criticized Rio 2016 for failing to capitalize on environmental protection by \"inventing\" mascots, rather than using actual animal species. Young also criticized the organizers for not offering a female name in the public vote.\nOn the other hand, Carlos Merigo wrote on Brazilian website \"B9\" that the mascots bring back \"the colorful, loving and fun atmosphere that marked the Olympic mascots over the decades\", calling them a \"return to origins\" following the \"shapelessness\" of Wenlock and Mandeville, the mascots of the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. Neha Prakash, writing on digital media website \"Mashable\", wrote that, compared to the \"terror\" of the mascots of the 2014 Winter Olympics, Vinicius and Tom \"are more nostalgia-inducing than nightmarish\". Multiple observers compared the art style of the mascots to that of the \"Pokémon\" franchise, while Stephen Wood, in an article on the history of Olympic mascots published by \"Paste\", likened them to the style of \"Adventure Time\", an American animated television series. In an entry about 2000 Summer Olympics' unofficial mascot Fatso the Wombat on \"Slate\"'s culture blog \"Brow Beat\", Matthew Dessem wrote that there were no glaring issues with the mascots when compared to previous Olympic mascots: \"Like the best Olympic mascots of yore, Vinicius and Tom are well-suited to plush toys and licensing deals and will be completely forgotten within a year.\" Leila Cobo, in an article published by \"Billboard\", praised the organizers of Rio 2016 for \"celebrating music in a most joyful and profound way\" by naming the Olympic mascot after Vinicius de Moraes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379523", "title": "Wall of Sound", "text": "Wall of Sound\n\nThe Wall of Sound (also called the Spector Sound) is a music production formula developed by American record producer Phil Spector at Gold Star Studios in the 1960s, with assistance from engineer Larry Levine and the session musician conglomerate later known as \"the Wrecking Crew\". The intention was to exploit the possibilities of studio recording to create an unusually dense orchestral aesthetic that came across well through radios and jukeboxes of the era. Spector explained in 1964: \"I was looking for a sound, a sound so strong that if the material was not the greatest, the sound would carry the record. It was a case of augmenting, augmenting. It all fitted together like a jigsaw.\" \n\nCritical shorthand usually reduces the Wall of Sound inaccurately to a maximum of noise. Levine recalled how \"other engineers\" mistakenly thought that the process was \"turning up all the faders to get full saturation, but all that achieved was distortion.\" To attain the Wall of Sound, Spector's arrangements called for large ensembles (including some instruments not generally used for ensemble playing, such as electric and acoustic guitars), with multiple instruments doubling or tripling many of the parts to create a fuller, richer tone. For example, Spector would often duplicate a part played by an acoustic piano with an electric piano and a harpsichord. Mixed well enough, the three instruments would then be indistinguishable to the listener. Additionally, Spector incorporated an array of orchestral instruments (strings, woodwind, brass and percussion) not previously associated with youth-oriented pop music. Reverb from an echo chamber was also highlighted for additional texture. He characterized his methods as \"a Wagnerian approach to rock & roll: little symphonies for the kids\". \n\nThe intricacies of the technique were unprecedented in the field of sound production for popular music. According to Beach Boys leader Brian Wilson, who used the formula extensively: \"In the '40s and '50s, arrangements were considered 'OK here, listen to that French horn' or 'listen to this string section now.' It was all a definite sound. There weren't combinations of sound, and with the advent of Phil Spector, we find sound combinations, which—scientifically speaking—is a brilliant aspect of sound production.\" Session guitarist Barney Kessel noted how \"terribly simple\" it was, however, \"the way [Spector] recorded and miked it, they’d diffuse it so that you couldn't pick out any one instrument. Techniques like distortion and echo were not new, but Phil came along and took these to make sounds that had not been used in the past. I thought it was ingenious.\"\n\nDuring the mid-1950s, Spector worked with Brill Building songwriters Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller during a period where they sought a fuller sound by the use of excessive instrumentation, using up to five electric guitars and four percussionists. This was later to evolve into Spector's Wall of Sound, which Leiber and Stoller consider to be very distinct from what they were doing, stating: \"Phil was the first one to use multiple drum kits, three pianos and so on. We went for much more clarity in terms of instrumental colors, and he deliberately blended everything into a kind of mulch. He definitely had a different point of view.\" Spector's first production was the self-penned 1957 single \"Don't You Worry My Little Pet\", performed with his group the Teddy Bears. The recording was achieved by taking a demo tape of the song and playing it back over the studio's speaker system in order to overdub another performance over it. The end product was a cacophony, with stacked harmony vocals that could not be heard clearly. He would spend the next several years further developing this unorthodox method of recording.\n\nIn the 1960s, Spector usually worked at Gold Star Studios in Los Angeles because of its exceptional echo chambers. He also typically worked with such audio engineers as Larry Levine and the conglomerate of session musicians who later became known as The Wrecking Crew. The sum of his efforts would be officially designated \"Phil Spector's Wall of Sound\" by Andrew Loog Oldham, who coined the term within advertisements for the Righteous Brothers 1964 single \"You've Lost That Lovin' Feeling\".\n\nThe process is almost the same for most of Spector's recordings, with Spector starting by rehearsing the assembled musicians for several hours before recording. The backing track was performed live and recorded monaurally; a bass drum overdub on \"Da Doo Ron Ron\" was the exception to the rule. Songwriter Jeff Barry, who worked extensively with Spector, described the Wall of Sound as \"by and large…a formula arrangement\" with \"four or five guitars…two basses in fifths, with the same type of line…strings…six or seven horns adding the little punches…[and] percussion instruments—the little bells, the shakers, the tambourines\".\n\nBob B. Soxx & the Blue Jeans' version of \"Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah\" formed the basis of Spector and Levine's future mixing practices, almost never straying from the formula it established. For the recording of \"You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'\", engineer Larry Levine described the process thus: they started by recording four acoustic guitars, playing eight bars over and over again, changing the figure if necessary until Spector thought it ready. They then added the pianos, of which there were three, and if they didn't work together, Spector would start again with the guitars. This is followed by three basses, the horns (two trumpets, two trombones, and three saxophones), then finally the drums. The vocals were then added with Bill Medley and Bobby Hatfield singing into separate microphones, and backing vocals supplied by the Blossoms and other singers.\n\nDaniel Lanois recounted a situation during the recording of the track \"Goodbye\" from Emmylou Harris's \"Wrecking Ball\": \"We put a huge amount of compression on the piano and the mandoguitar, and it turned into this fantastic, chimey harmonic instrument. We almost got the old Spector '60s sound, not by layering, but by really compressing what was already there between the melodic events happening between these two instruments.\" Nonetheless, layering identical instrumental parts remained an integral component of many of Spector's productions, as session musician Barney Kessel recalled:\n\nAll early Wall of Sound recordings were made with a three-track Ampex 350 tape recorder. Levine explained that during mixing, \"I [would] record the same thing on two of the [Ampex machine's] three tracks just to reinforce the sound, and then I would erase one of those and replace it with the voice. The console had a very limited equalizer for each input … That was basically it in terms of effects, aside from the two echo chambers that were also there, of course, directly behind the control room.\"\n\nMicrophones in the recording studio captured the musicians' performance, which was then transmitted to an echo chamber—a basement room fitted with speakers and microphones. The signal from the studio was played through the speakers and reverberated throughout the room before being picked up by the microphones. The echo-laden sound was then channeled back to the control room, where it was recorded on tape. The natural reverberation and echo from the hard walls of the echo chamber gave Spector's productions their distinctive quality and resulted in a rich, complex sound that, when played on AM radio, had a texture rarely heard in musical recordings. Jeff Barry noted, \"Phil used his own formula for echo, and some overtone arrangements with the strings.\"\n\nDuring the mixing for \"Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah\", Spector turned off the track designated for electric guitar (played on this occasion by Billy Strange). However, the sound of the guitar could still be heard spilling onto other microphones in the room, creating a ghostly ambiance that obscured the instrument. In reference to this nuance of the song's recording, music professor Albin Zak has written:\n\nLevine disliked Spector's penchant for mic bleeding, accordingly: \"I never wanted all the bleed between instruments — I had it, but I never wanted it — and since I had to live with it, that meant manipulating other things to lessen the effect; bringing the guitars up just a hair and the drums down just a hair so that it didn't sound like it was bleeding.\" In order to offset the mixing problems percussion leakage caused, he applied a minimal number of microphones to the drum kits, using Neumann U67s overhead and RCA 77s on the kick to establish a feeling of presence.\n\nAccording to Zak: \"Aside from the issues of retail and radio exposure, mono recordings represented an aesthetic frame for musicians and producers, who had grown up with them.\" Despite the trend towards multi-channel recording, Spector was vehemently opposed to stereo releases, claiming that it took control of the record's sound away from the producer in favor of the listener, resulting in an infringement of the Wall of Sound's carefully balanced combination of sonic textures as they were meant to be heard. Brian Wilson agreed, stating: \"I look at sound like a painting, you have a balance and the balance is conceived in your mind. You finish the sound, dub it down, and you’ve stamped out a picture of your balance with the mono dubdown. But in stereo, you leave that dubdown to the listener—to his speaker placement and speaker balance. It just doesn't seem complete to me.\"\n\nIt has been inaccurately suggested in critical shorthand that Spector's \"wall of sound\" filled every second with a maximum of noise. Biographer David Hinckley wrote that the Wall of Sound was flexible, more complex, and more subtle, elaborating:\n\nThe Wall of Sound has been contrasted with \"the standard pop mix of foregrounded solo vocal and balanced, blended backing\" as well as the airy mixes typical of reggae and funk. Jeff Barry said: \"[Spector] buried the lead and he \"cannot stop\" himself from doing that … if you listen to his records in sequence, the lead goes further and further in and to me what he is saying is, 'It is \"not\" the song... just listen to those \"strings\". I want \"more\" musicians, it's \"me\".'\" Musicologist Richard Middleton wrote: \"This can be contrasted with the \"open\" spaces and more \"equal\" lines of typical funk and reggae textures [for example], which seem to invite [listeners] to insert [themselves] in those spaces and actively participate.\" Closer reflection reveals that the Wall of Sound was compatible with, even supportive of, vocal protagonism. Such virtuosity was ultimately serving of Spector's own agenda—The Righteous Brothers' vocal prowess provided him a \"secure and prosperous headrest\", such as in Bobby Hatfield's rendering of \"Unchained Melody\".\n\nWagnerian rock derives its characterization from a merge between Spector's Wall of Sound and the operas of Richard Wagner.\n\nThe Wall of Sound forms the foundation of Phil Spector's recordings, in general. However, certain records are considered to have epitomized its use. The Ronettes' version of \"Sleigh Ride\" used the effect heavily. Another prominent example of the Wall of Sound was \"Da Doo Ron Ron\" by The Crystals. Spector himself is quoted as believing his production of Ike and Tina Turner's \"River Deep, Mountain High\" to be the summit of his Wall of Sound productions, and this sentiment has been echoed by George Harrison, who called it \"a perfect record from start to finish\". Spector later produced his album \"All Things Must Pass\" (1970).\n\nPerhaps Phil Spector's most infamous use of his production techniques was on the \"Let It Be\" album. Spector was brought in to salvage the incomplete \"Let It Be\", an album abandoned by The Beatles, performances from which had already appeared in several bootleg versions when the sessions were still referred to as \"Get Back\". \"The Long and Winding Road\", \"I Me Mine\", and \"Across the Universe\" are often singled out by Paul McCartney, and others, as those tracks receiving the greatest amount of post-production work. The modified treatment (often misrepresented as a Wall of Sound, although neither Spector nor the Beatles used this phrase to refer to the production) and other overdubs proved controversial among fans and The Beatles themselves. Eventually, in 2003, \"Let It Be... Naked\" was released, an authorized version without Spector's additions.\nOutside of Spector's own songs, the most recognizable example of the \"Wall of Sound\" is heard on many classic hits recorded by The Beach Boys (e.g., \"God Only Knows\", \"Wouldn't It Be Nice\"—and especially, the psychedelic \"pocket symphony\" of \"Good Vibrations\"), for which Brian Wilson used a similar recording technique, especially during the \"Pet Sounds\" and \"Smile\" eras of the band. Wilson considers \"Pet Sounds\" to be a concept album centered around interpretations of Phil Spector's recording methods. Author Domenic Priore observed, \"The Ronettes had sung a dynamic version of The Students' 1961 hit 'I'm So Young', and Wilson went right for it, but took the Wall of Sound in a different direction. Where Phil would go for total effect by bringing the music to the edge of cacophony – and therefore rocking to the tenth power – Brian seemed to prefer audio clarity. His production method was to spread out the sound and arrangement, giving the music a more lush, comfortable feel.\"\n\nAccording to Larry Levine, \"Brian was one of the few people in the music business Phil respected. There was a mutual respect. Brian might say that he learned how to produce from watching Phil, but the truth is, he was already producing records before he observed Phil. He just wasn't getting credit for it, something that in the early days, I remember really used to make Phil angry. Phil would tell anybody who listened that Brian was one of the great producers.\"\n\nIn 1973, British band Wizzard revived the Wall of Sound in three of their hits \"See My Baby Jive\", \"Angel Fingers\" and \"I Wish It Could Be Christmas Everyday\". Bruce Springsteen would also emulate the Wall of Sound in his recording of \"Born to Run\" (1975).\n\nSpector's Wall of Sound is distinct from what's typically characterized as a \"wall of sound\", according to author Matthew Bannister. During the 1980s, \"Jangle and drone plus reverberation create[d] a contemporary equivalent of Spector's 'Wall of Sound' — a massive, ringing, cavernous noise and a device used by many indie groups: Flying Nun, from Sneaky Feelings' \"Send You\" to Straitjacket Fits and the JPS Experience\". He cites 1960s psychedelic and garage rock such as the Byrds' \"Eight Miles High\" (1966) as a primary musical influence on the movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "11492367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11492367", "title": "World Cinema Project", "text": "World Cinema Project\n\nThe World Cinema Project (WCP) is a non-profit organization devoted to the preservation and restoration of neglected world cinema.\n\nFounded in 2007 as the World Cinema Foundation by Martin Scorsese, it was inspired by the work of The Film Foundation in the United States, a similar venture which Scorsese founded with George Lucas, Stanley Kubrick, Steven Spielberg and Clint Eastwood in 1990.\n\nThe World Cinema Foundation is backed by an advisory board \"Filmmaker Council\" which includes Martin Scorsese, Fatih Akin, Souleymane Cissé, Guillermo Del Toro, Stephen Frears, Alejandro González Iñárritu, Wong Kar-Wai, Abbas Kiarostami, Deepa Mehta, Ermanno Olmi, Raoul Peck, Cristi Puiu, Walter Salles, Abderrahmane Sissako, Elia Suleiman, Bertrand Tavernier, Wim Wenders, and Tian Zhuangzhuang.\n\nAfter leaving his position at the Film Society of Lincoln Center, Kent Jones became the foundation's executive director.\n\n\"Trances\", a music documentary about Nass El Ghiwane an influential Moroccan music group, was picked by Martin Scorsese as the inaugural release for the foundation; it was screened at the Cannes Film Festival in 2007 and at Djemaa el-Fna square in Morocco.\n\n"}
