{"id": "28268111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28268111", "title": "Aberlemno Sculptured Stones", "text": "Aberlemno Sculptured Stones\n\nThe Aberlemno Sculptured Stones are a series of five Class I and II Early Medieval standing stones found in and around the village of Aberlemno, Angus, Scotland.\n\nAberlemno 1, 3 and 5 are located in recesses in the dry stone wall at the side of the road in Aberlemno (). Aberlemno 2 is found in the Kirkyard, 300 yards south of the roadside stones.() In recent years, bids have been made to move the stones to an indoor location to protect them from weathering, but this has met with local resistance and the stones are currently covered in the winter.\n\nAberlemno 4, the Flemington Farm Stone was found 30 yards from the church (), and is now on display in the McManus Galleries, Dundee.\n\nAberlemno 1 is the central roadside stone. It is an unshaped standing stone, bearing incised Pictish symbols, defining it under J Romilly Allen and Joseph Anderson's classification system as a Class I stone. The symbols on one face: the serpent, the double disc and Z-rod and the mirror and comb. The meaning of these symbols is unknown. They are deeply incised in a bold, confident line, and this stone is considered to be one of the finest and best-preserved Pictish symbol stones still standing in or near its original position. The other face of the stone exhibits prehistoric cup marks, showing that it has been re-used.\n\nAberlemno II, found in Aberlemno kirkyard, is a shaped cross-slab, bearing Pictish symbols as well as Christian symbols in relief, defining it as a Class II stone. The stone, carved from Old Red Sandstone, stands tall, wide at the base, tapering to wide at the top, and is thick.\n\nThe west face is inscribed with a quadrilobate Celtic Cross. The cross bears several styles of Celtic pattern designs. The vertical arms are inscribed with three separate knotwork designs, the horizontal arms with keywork designs. The central roundel has a spiral design composed of three interconnecting triskeles. Bordering the cross are a number of Celtic zoomorphic designs, reminiscent of Northumbrian designs and designs from the Book of Kells. A hole has been bored through the upper part of the stone some time after its sculpting.\n\nThe rear face features two Pictish symbols, a notched rectangle with z-rod and a triple disc. Below this are nine figures which have been interpreted as a narrative account of a battle.\n\nUntil recently, it was thought to date to the mid-8th century, but subsequent analysis has suggested a mid-9th century date.\n\nThe western road-side stone is another Class II stone. It has an elaborately decorated ringed cross flanked by adoring angels on one side, and a hunting scene on the reverse, below two large Pictish symbols. This stone is known as Aberlemno 3. This stone has until recently been thought to date from the late eighth century. More recent comparative analyses have suggested that it may be of a later, mid-ninth-century origin.\n\nAberlemno 3 has different proportions to the Kirkyard Cross-slab, being relatively tall and thin, with parallel sides which have incised decoration (those of the other cross-slab are plain). The monument's height and decoration on four faces both suggest it is later in date than Aberlemno 2. Its nearest artistic analogies appear to be sculptures from Easter Ross in northern Scotland, notable the Hilton of Cadboll stone (now in the Museum of Scotland), which has a closely similar hunting scene.\n\nThis stone, found in 1961 is approximately 1.5 metres tall, 0.5 m wide and 0.3 m thick. It has incised symbols on an unworked stone, defining it under J Romilly Allen and Joseph Anderson's classification system as a Class I stone. There are two symbols, a horseshoe and a Pictish Beast. The anterior portion of the beast symbol (facing right) has suffered some damage due to ploughing, but is still easily visible.\n\nThe eastern Class I stone is highly eroded and the incised symbols are extremely difficult to make out. This stone is thought to be unfinished or a later fake. This stone is known as Aberlemno 5.\n\nOn the rear of Aberlemno 2 is a scene showing human figures bearing weapons, apparently engaged in battle. The figures appear in three rows. The top row has an unhelmeted figure on horseback riding behind a helmeted rider, possibly in pursuit. The helmeted rider is armed with a spear and appears to have dropped his sword and shield. The middle row has a helmeted rider armed with a spear and shield facing three unhelmeted infantry soldiers armed with spears, swords and shields. The bottom row shows a mounted and unhelmeted figure and mounted helmeted figure facing each other, both armed with spears. Behind the helmeted rider lies a helmeted casualty, with a bird to his right.\n\nThe battle scene has been interpreted in numerous ways. The earliest record of the stone by Hector Boece, from the 16th century, links the scene with the Battle of Barry (now known to be historically inauthentic):\n\n82. \"Parem cladem nobilissimus Danorum manipulus est sortitus ad Aberlemnonem vicum vix a Bretheno, nunc civitate episcopali sede honestata, quatuor passuum millibus, qui a Scotis interceptus ibidem ferro occubuit. Quo loco ingens lapis est erectus. Huic animantium effigies nonnullis cum characteribus artificiose, ut tum fiebat, quae rem gestam posteritati annunciarent, sunt insculptae.\"<br><br>\n82. \"A noble company of Danes suffered a similar slaughter near the village of Aberlemno, a village four miles distant from Brechin (nowadays a city possessing the honour of an episcopal see), which was intercepted by the Scots and put to the sword. Here a great stone was erected, carved with lifelike figures and an artfully-engraved inscription (according to the lights of those days) to record this achievement for posterity.\"\n\nThis interpretation persisted well into the mid-19th century, some time after antiquarian George Chalmers identified Dunnichen as a possible site of the Battle of Dun Nechtain.\n\nWhile it was noted in 1955 by Robert Stevenson, keeper of the Museum of Antiquities of Scotland that the helmets depicted on the stone were of a general sub-Roman design and the helmeted figures were likely to be Picts, the superficial similarity of the helmets with their long nasal, with the Anglo-Saxon Coppergate Helmet found at York in 1982 has led to the notion that the helmeted figures are Northumbrians. This, coupled with the stone's proximity to Dunnichen ( to the south) led to the interpretation made by historian Graeme Cruickshank that the scene was a depiction of the Battle of Dun Nechtain.\n\nCruickshank's interpretation, published in 1985, 1300 years after the Battle of Dun Nechtain, received general acceptance, although he has been criticised for his suggestions that the stone was created soon after the battle in 685, when the conventional view at the time was that it was sculpted a century later.\n\nThe subsequent identification of Dunachton in Badenoch as a second candidate for the site of the battle, and the revised dating of the stone to the mid 9th century has weakened Cruickshank's argument somewhat, and alternative interpretations have been made, including that the scene depicts a battle between Picts and Vikings, or that it is a memorial to 8th century Pictish king Óengus I, or even that it represents a spiritual struggle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32810996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32810996", "title": "Anger Management (TV series)", "text": "Anger Management (TV series)\n\nAnger Management is an American television sitcom that premiered on FX on June 28, 2012. The series is loosely based on the 2003 film of the same name and stars Charlie Sheen in a variation of the Jack Nicholson character in the film.\n\n\"Anger Management\" broke a ratings record with 5.74 million viewers on its series debut night, which ranks as the most-watched sitcom premiere in cable history.\n\nOn November 7, 2014, FX announced that the series would end after its 100th episode, which aired on December 22, 2014.\n\nThe series revolves around Charlie Goodson (Sheen), a one-time minor league baseball player who struggled to take the next step because of his recurring anger issues. Thanks to a therapist, Dr. Kate Wales (Selma Blair), Charlie was able to get his issues under control and finally make it to the major leagues. But he had a relapse during a big league game, breaking a bat over his knee in anger and causing a career-ending injury.\n\nThe incident inspired Charlie to return to school and become an anger management therapist. Charlie is divorced from his one-time wife, Jennifer (Shawnee Smith), on whom he cheated multiple times during his baseball-playing days. The two still see a lot of each other because they share joint custody of their teenage daughter Sam (Daniela Bobadilla), who has obsessive-compulsive disorder.\n\nCharlie has a complicated relationship with Kate, who is not only his therapist, but also his best friend and a sex-only love interest. He holds regular group sessions for anger-management patients in his home, and also does anger therapy at an area prison.\n\n\n\nOn July 18, 2011, it was announced that a show based on the 2003 film of the same name was in development with Charlie Sheen starring in the role originally played by Jack Nicholson from the film. The series was Sheen's first acting role since he was officially fired from the hit CBS sitcom \"Two and a Half Men\".\n\nOn October 27, 2011, it was announced that FX had picked up the series with an initial ten-episode order which, if successful, FX would then order an additional 90 episodes under a syndication model crafted by Debmar-Mercury. On August 29, 2012 it was announced that the show would be picked up for a further 90 episodes. On January 9, 2013, FX president John Landgraf said that there will essentially be \"45 new episodes per year\". Landgraf also announced that Martin Sheen, who guest-starred in season one as Charlie's on-screen father, would become a season two regular cast member. While Martin did appear more frequently on the show, it was only in selected episodes and he was ultimately not promoted to regular cast member.\n\nFX paid a $600,000-per-episode license fee for the series. To boost its sagging season two ratings, FX announced that four episodes (two of them first-run) would air on FX's parent network Fox on Monday nights in June, starting June 3, 2013.\n\nCasting announcements began in January 2012, with Shawnee Smith and Selma Blair first cast as the two female leads. Smith was cast as Charlie's ex-wife and Blair was cast as Charlie's therapist and possible love interest.\n\nSeveral actresses tested for the two female lead roles, including Julie Benz, Jenica Bergere, Elaine Hendrix (who would get a role on the show), Kate Reinders and Nichole Hiltz.\n\nNext to be cast was Noureen DeWulf, in the role of Lacey, a spoiled rich girl who is sentenced to join the therapy group after shooting her boyfriend in the testicles when he cheated on her. Michael Arden and Daniela Bobadilla were cast as, respectively, Patrick (an openly gay member of Charlie's therapy group) and Sam (Charlie's teenaged daughter who has obsessive-compulsive disorder). Barry Corbin was cast as Ed, a cranky, bigoted Vietnam veteran and the member of the therapy group who is angry at everyone. Originally billed as a recurring character, the producers decided after just two episodes to make Ed a series regular. Derek Richardson was the last actor cast in the series, in the role of Nolan, a frequently stoned member of the therapy group whose anger issue is that he has no anger.\n\nBrian Austin Green, who initially made a guest appearance, was promoted to a starring role following the dismissal of Selma Blair. Denise Richards, Lindsay Lohan, Cee Lo Green, and Kerri Kenney-Silver made guest appearances. Guitarist Slash made a cameo appearance. Sheen's father, Martin Sheen, who made a guest appearance in season one as Charlie's on-screen father, had an expanded role in the second season. FX president John Landgraf said, \"I thought it would be a better series if it was also a multi-generational series\".\n\nOn June 17, 2013, TMZ reported that Sheen had told producers that he would refuse to work should Blair turn up to work that day as a result of her being the most vocal among the cast and crew regarding complaints about his being a \"menace\" to work with – specifically questioning his punctuality and work ethic. The following day, TMZ reported that Sheen had told the producers that, if they refused to fire Blair, then he would quit. Later that day, Lionsgate issued a statement confirming that Blair would not be returning to the show and that a new female lead role would be created to fill the void.\n\nThe new female lead role was described as a \"by-the-book psychiatrist\" who joins Charlie to co-author the sex study research he and Kate had been working on before she left and moved to India. On August 5, 2013, FX announced that Laura Bell Bundy would be replacing Blair as Charlie's new colleague, Dr. Jordan Denby, with production on the first episode featuring Bundy's character beginning that same day. It was announced that Brian Austin Green would have an expanded role following Blair's firing.\n\nOn September 13, 2013, TMZ reported that Blair was threatening both Sheen and Lionsgate Entertainment for the $1.2 million she would have earned had she not been dismissed from the show but also noted that both sides were talking and attempting to reach a settlement. It was also reported that a decision had already been made prior to her dismissal to write her off the show as \"America didn't want to see Charlie with just one girlfriend\" – however, the plan was to phase the character out over eight episodes and that, once Sheen heard of Blair's comments, \"that process was accelerated\" and the character abruptly moved to India.\n\nIn June 2013, a press release for an episode titled \"Charlie and Kate Have Sex for Science\" stated that the episode was set to air on June 27, 2013, as the twenty-sixth episode of the season. Following the aftermath of Blair's dismissal, the planned broadcast was canceled and replaced with \"Charlie and the Hot Nerd\" – the first episode produced without Blair. The status of \"Charlie and Kate Have Sex for Science\" is unknown as all episodes with production codes up to, and including, 1040 (Blair's final episode) have aired. An episode with a similar title, but with different storylines, named \"Charlie Does It For Science\" aired on December 5, 2013.\n\nThe original broadcast was within the United States of America on the cable channel FX from June 28, 2012, and was later broadcast via free-to-air the Fox network from June 3, 2013. In Canada the series premiered on CTV on August 12, 2012. New episodes later aired on M3. In the United Kingdom/Ireland it premiered on Comedy Central on September 12, 2012. Anger Management began airing in Australia on the Nine Network on August 14, 2012, and in New Zealand on TVNZ's TV2 from August 15, 2012.\n\n\"Anger Management\" received largely negative reviews. Based on 33 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, the first season of \"Anger Management\" received an average 21% overall \"Rotten\" approval rating; the website's consensus states, \"\"Anger Management\" is aggressively so-so, with thin characters and a few groan-worthy gags for every good one.\"\n\nMetacritic gave the first season of the show a score of 44 out of 100 based on 33 critics' reviews. Linda Stasi of the \"New York Post\" called the series \"not so bad\", adding \"\"Anger Management\" is pretty conventional up to and including an idiot laugh track—and a character named Charlie—again. But maybe the familiar is what will keep crazy Charlie [Sheen] from killing himself and others in a blind, drunken, psycho haze on set. Or maybe not.\" \"The Wall Street Journal\"s Nancy DeWolf Smith thought the series was \"usually funny, often clever\" and added \"The accomplishment here is that tight writing and editing, a solid cast with good timing and Mr. Sheen's chops as the ne plus ultra of sitcom performers, make the whole thing feel, if not entirely fresh—then crisp.\"\n\nAlan Sepinwall of HitFix stated: \"\"Anger Management\" is Charlie Sheen doing what Charlie Sheen does—on-screen. It's not artful, it's not elegant ... It will likely give his fans what they want. And if there are enough of them to trigger the order for the extra 90 episodes, then FX, Helford and everyone else will feel justified in taking another chance on the guy, despite what happened in the past.\"\n\n\"The Huffington Post\"s Maureen Ryan stated: \"despite the careful attention to image enhancement possibilities, the core ugliness and toxic narcissism of \"Anger Management\" are impossible to ignore. ... Whoever \"Anger Management\" benefits – and it certainly won't be viewers used to FX's usual scripted fare – whole enterprise is really just image management. Nice work if you can get it.\" \"Anger Management\" was renewed for 90 more episodes, and production started on September 24, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2976760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2976760", "title": "Baluster", "text": "Baluster\n\nA baluster—also called spindle or stair stick—is a moulded shaft, square or of lathe-turned form, cut from a rectangular or square plank, one of various forms of spindle in woodwork, made of stone or wood, and sometimes of metal or plastic, standing on a unifying footing, and supporting the coping of a parapet or the handrail of a staircase.\n\nMultiplied in this way, they form a balustrade. Individually, a baluster shaft may describe the turned form taken by a brass or silver candlestick, an upright furniture support, or the stem of a brass chandelier, etc.\n\nAccording to \"OED\", \"baluster\" is derived through the , from , from \"balaustra\", \"pomegranate flower\" [from a resemblance to the swelling form of the half-open flower (\"illustration, below left\")], from Latin \"balaustium\", from Greek βαλαύστιον (\"balaustion\").\n\nThe earliest examples are those shown in the bas-reliefs representing the Assyrian palaces, where they were employed as window balustrades and apparently had Ionic capitals. As an architectural element the balustrade did not seem to have been known to either the Greeks or the Romans, but baluster forms are familiar in the legs of chairs and tables represented in Roman bas-reliefs, where the original legs or the models for cast bronze ones were shaped on the lathe, or in Antique marble candelabra, formed as a series of stacked bulbous and disc-shaped elements, both kinds of sources familiar to \"Quattrocento\" designers.\n\nThe application to architecture was a feature of the early Renaissance: late fifteenth-century examples are found in the balconies of palaces at Venice and Verona. These quattrocento balustrades are likely to be following yet-unidentified Gothic precedents. They form balustrades of colonnettes as an alternative to miniature arcading.\n\nRudolf Wittkower withheld judgement as to the inventor of the baluster and credited Giuliano da Sangallo with using it consistently as early as the balustrade on the terrace and stairs at the Medici villa at Poggio a Caiano (c. 1480), and used balustrades in his reconstructions of antique structures. Sangallo passed the motif to Bramante (his Tempietto, 1502) and Michelangelo, through whom balustrades gained wide currency in the 16th century.\n\nWittkower distinguished two types, one symmetrical in profile that inverted one bulbous vase-shape over another, separating them with a cushionlike torus or a concave ring, and the other a simple vase shape, whose employment by Michelangelo at the Campidoglio steps (c. 1546), noted by Wittkower, was preceded by very early vasiform balusters in a balustrade round the drum of Santa Maria delle Grazie (c. 1482), and railings in the cathedrals of Aquileia (c. 1495) and Parma, in the cortile of San Damaso, Vatican, and Antonio da Sangallo's crowning balustrade on the Santa Casa at Loreto installed in 1535, and liberally in his model for the Basilica of Saint Peter. Because of its low center of gravity, this \"vase-baluster\" may be given the modern term \"dropped baluster\".\n\nThe baluster, being a turned structure, tends to follow design precedents that were set in woodworking and ceramic practices, where the turner's lathe and the potter's wheel are ancient tools. The profile a baluster takes is often diagnostic of a particular style of architecture or furniture, and may offer a rough guide to date of a design, though not of a particular example. \n\nSome complicated Mannerist baluster forms can be read as a vase set upon another vase. The high shoulders and bold, rhythmic shapes of the Baroque vase and baluster forms are distinctly different from the sober baluster forms of Neoclassicism, which look to other precedents, like Greek amphoras. The distinctive twist-turned designs of balusters in oak and walnut English and Dutch seventeenth-century furniture, which took as their prototype the Solomonic column that was given prominence by Bernini, fell out of style after the 1710s.\n\nOnce it had been taken from the lathe, a turned wood baluster could be split and applied to an architectural surface, or to one in which architectonic themes were more freely treated, as on cabinets made in Italy, Spain and Northern Europe from the sixteenth through the seventeenth centuries. Modern baluster design is also in use for example in designs influenced by the Arts and Crafts movement in a 1905 row of houses in Etchingham Park Road Finchley London England.\n\nOutside Europe, the baluster column appeared as a new motif in Mughal architecture, introduced in Shah Jahan's interventions in two of the three great fortress-palaces, the Red Fort of Agra and Delhi, in the early seventeenth century. Foliate baluster columns with naturalistic foliate capitals, unexampled in previous Indo-Islamic architecture according to Ebba Koch, rapidly became one of the most widely used forms of supporting shaft in Northern and Central India in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.\n\nThe modern term baluster shaft is applied to the shaft dividing a window in Saxon architecture. In the south transept of the Abbey in St Albans, England, are some of these shafts, supposed to have been taken from the old Saxon church. Norman bases and capitals have been added, together with plain cylindrical Norman shafts.\n\nBalusters are normally separated by at least the same measurement as the size of the square bottom section. Placing balusters too far apart (to save money) diminishes their aesthetic appeal. Balustrades normally terminate in columns, building walls or more properly in heavy newel posts because otherwise they will not be structurally strong enough.\n\nBalusters may be formed in several ways. Wood and stone can be shaped on the lathe, wood can be cut from square or rectangular section boards, while concrete, plaster, iron, and plastics are usually formed by molding and casting. Turned patterns or old examples are used for the molds.\n\n\nThe word banister (also bannister) refers to the balusters of a stairway. It has been defined as either a handrail, especially on a staircase, or such a handrail together with its supporting structures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52007187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52007187", "title": "Billboard Music Award for Top Dance/Electronic Artist", "text": "Billboard Music Award for Top Dance/Electronic Artist\n\nThe \"Billboard\" Music Award for Top Dance/Electronic Artist.\n\n2011~2013: Top Dance Artist2013~2013: Top EDM Artist2014~present: Top Dance/Electronic Artist\n"}
{"id": "17788260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17788260", "title": "Burnside Fountain", "text": "Burnside Fountain\n\nThe Burnside Fountain is a non-functioning drinking fountain at the southeast corner of Worcester Common in Worcester, Massachusetts. It consists of two parts, a pink granite basin, and a bronze statue of a young boy riding a sea turtle. The basin was designed by architect Henry Bacon, who later designed the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C., and the figure was created by sculptor Charles Y. Harvey. Harvey committed suicide before finishing the sculpture, and Sherry Fry completed the bronze. The Burnside Fountain was commissioned in 1905 by the city of Worcester after Harriet F. Burnside bequeathed US $5,000 to create a fountain to provide fresh water for people, horses and dogs, in the memory of her father, a prominent lawyer. The fountain was installed in 1912 in Central Square, then moved in 1969 to its current location on Worcester Common. In 1970 the statue was stolen, and was re-installed two years later. An attempted theft occurred in 2004.\n\nThe bronze is officially named \"Boy with a Turtle\" but is known to locals as \"Turtle Boy.\" \"Turtle Boy\" has become an unofficial mascot for Worcester, much in the same way the Manneken Pis is for Brussels. The Burnside Fountain's popularity is derived mostly from viewers' incorrect interpretation of the statue. Over its 100-year existence, it has been referenced in stories and songs, as well as having a music contest and a microbrew named after it.\n\nThe Burnside Fountain is wide, tall, and consists of two parts, the basin and the sculpture. The pink granite basin is rectangular and has four large bowls, two on either end, carved into its top. These bowls were originally designed as water troughs for horses, and a smaller, lower, bowl located on the rear of the fountain was designed for dogs.\n\nThe bronze sculpture sits on a circular base in the middle of the basin. The sculpture is officially known as \"Boy with a Turtle,\" as its figure is of a young boy, in the nude, riding a sea turtle. In 1986 the Worcester municipal parks and recreation department described the statue with the sentence, \"The boy holding the turtle, his hair flying, a sly smile on his face, is charming and disarming.\"\n\nSamuel Burnside was a prominent lawyer in Worcester who studied law at Dartmouth College in the early 1800s. Burnside had three daughters, Sophia, Harriet, and Elizabeth, who went on to be called by Frederick Clifton Pierce \"the most notable figures in the life of Worcester.\" The notability of the three daughters was due in part to the prestige and wealth Samuel Burnside had accrued as Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas. Both before and after Samuel Burnside's death on July 25, 1850, his three daughters were known for charitable works, having donated public gardens and a library to the city of Worcester. One daughter's most well-known donation to the city came in the form of a bequest in her will. In 1904, Harriet Burnside died and left $5,000 in her will to the city of Worcester to build a fountain as a memorial to her father.\n\nWhen Burnside bequeathed the money for the fountain, she asked that it be designed for use as a drinking trough for horses and also for dogs. The commission was originally intended for Daniel Chester French, but, according to a paper by Zelotes W. Coombs, French turned down the commission due to \"pressure of other engagements, however... he did supervise the work.\" French assigned the design of the basin to Henry Bacon, who would later work with French on the Lincoln Memorial. The sculpture was assigned to Charles Y. Harvey, a graduate of the American Academy in Rome, who had worked with Augustus Saint-Gaudens on the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial in Boston.\n\nCharles Y. Harvey began work on \"Boy with Turtle\" at his studio in New York City, believing that this work was going to be his masterpiece. Almost immediately he began second guessing his design and feeling that it was inadequate. This negativity was a trait that he had shown many times in the past. Roughly a week after beginning the sculpture, Harvey began hearing voices commanding him to kill himself. A paper about restoring the sculpture written at Worcester Polytechnic Institute claims the voices he was hearing were coming from the partially carved sculpture itself. These voices set the date of Saturday January 27, 1912 for Harvey to kill himself. On that date he laid down his tools, headed to Bronx Park with two razors, and slit his own throat along the west bank of the Bronx River.\n\nAfter Harvey's death, Sherry Fry, a fellow American Academy graduate, was invited to finish the work according to the original designs Harvey had laid out. Fry completed the sculpture, and it was delivered along with the basin to Worcester in 1912. There had been much discussion about where to install the fountain. Central Square, just off the Worcester Common was chosen with only slight opposition from \"market gardeners who had been using the east end of the Common for their summer outdoor market.\" When it was installed in Central Square, There was no dedication ceremony or unveiling for the fountain. A news article on October 11, 1912 stated that Worcester Mayor Philip O’Connell, \"believes it will be well to have the fountain placed in use without ceremony.” This lack of a ceremony is presumably due to Harvey's suicide and the desire to not celebrate such an act.\n\nBy 1912, the use of horse and buggy had fallen out of fashion, and the Burnside Fountain saw little use in its intended purpose. By 1939 citizens of Worcester were already calling for the fountain to be moved to a more suitable place where it could be of more use. It took until 1969 for the Burnside Fountain to be moved from Central Square. It was relocated to the Worcester Common and turned to face Salem Square. One year later, in May 1970, the statue was ripped from its pedestal and stolen. It was returned later that same year, but it took until 1972 for the boy and turtle to be placed back on top of the basin. Another apparent theft attempt happened in 2004 when the bronze sculpture was toppled off its pedestal and left dangling off the basin. The city was quick to fix the statue this time, with it being righted and reattached within days.\n\nIn 2010, the Burnside Fountain was named one of WAAF's \"Hill-Man's 25 Greatest Places in Massachusetts.\" That same year, it was also nominated for \"Worst Public Art in New England\" by a regional Art blog. Around this same time a small group of volunteers began the \"Turtle Boy Urban Gardeners,\" a group dedicated to keeping the plantings around the Burnside Fountain presentable.\n\nFor the last few decades the Burnside Fountain has been in disrepair. A 1986 inventory of public memorials in Worcester, compiled by the municipal parks and recreation department, listed the fountains problems as \"chipped stone, water system, bronze surface corrosion, rust staining, litter,\" and the Smithsonian Art Inventories Catalog surveyed the fountain in September 1994 and listed its condition as \"treatment urgent.\" With the one-hundredth anniversary of the Burnside Fountain coming in 2012, there has been renewed interest in restoring the fountain. Restoration estimates run between USD $40,000 to $60,000, which is more than the city is willing to spend. Probably because of this, there are no official plans to restore the fountain, as of June 2012.\n\nThe statue that sits atop the Burnside Fountain is now commonly referred to as \"Turtle Boy.\" In the tradition of the Manneken Pis in Brussels, \"Turtle Boy\" has become an unofficial mascot for Worcester. Much of the local popularity of the statue is due to bawdy insinuations about how the boy and the turtle are portrayed. Anonymous members of the Worcester community sometimes dress the statue in festive clothes for holidays, local bands write crowd-pleasing songs about it, and the statue has even graced postcards of the city.\n\nThe popularity of \"Turtle Boy\" began around the time it was installed in Central Square. In 1916 the Burnside Fountain's boy and turtle appeared in \"The Cloud Bird\", a children's book by Margaret C. Getchell in which each chapter was about a Worcester landmark. In the eighth chapter, \"The Adventurer in Armor,\" a small girl finds a young, Peter Pan-like faun who had agreed to hold back the turtle. They later go on an adventure upon the turtle's back, but return at the end of the day. By the late 2000s \"Turtle Boy\" was a common term used to align events and objects with Worcester. \nA local music contest was named the \"Turtle Boy Music Awards,\" and the Wormtown Brewing Company in Worcester began selling a \"Turtle Boy Blueberry Ale.\"\n\nKristina Wilson, associate professor in the Department of Visual and Performing Arts at Worcester's Clark University, asked people on campus what they thought of \"Turtle Boy\". One person replied \"Oh, that's Worcester's monument to bestiality.\" Wilson said the sculpture is intended to portray \"innocence, joy, and rebirth,\" and that historically Charles Y. Harvey came from an artistic tradition in which \"the human figure is the apex of beauty, and how well you can capture that is the demonstration of your artistic talents.\" Regarding the artistic merit of the work, Wilson said: \"It's unfortunate, because it really does look like something untoward is going on.\"\n\nMostly because of the ambiguity in what the Burnside Fountain is depicting, \"Turtle Boy\" pops up occasionally in social media. The sculpture also appeared on comedian Daniel Tosh's Tosh.0 blog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23915525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23915525", "title": "Challenge-based learning", "text": "Challenge-based learning\n\nChallenge-based learning (CBL) is a framework for learning while solving real-world Challenges. The framework is collaborative and hands-on, asking all participants (students, teachers, families, and community members) to identify Big Ideas, ask good questions, discover and solve Challenges, gain in-depth subject area knowledge, develop 21st-century skills, and share their thoughts with the world.\n\nChallenge-based learning builds on the foundation of experiential learning, leans heavily on the wisdom of a long history of progressive education, shares the many of the goals of service learning, and the activism of critical pedagogy. The framework is informed by innovative ideas from education, media, technology, entertainment, recreation, the workplace, and society.\n\nThe challenge-based learning framework emerged from the \"Apple Classrooms of Tomorrow—Today\" (ACOT2) project initiated in 2008 by Apple, Inc. to identify the essential design principles of a 21st-century learning environment (Apple Inc., 2008). Starting with the ACOT2 design principles, a team from Apple, Inc. worked with exemplary educators to develop, test and implement challenge-based learning.\n\nUsing Challenges to frame learning experiences originated from an exploration of reality television, conversations with individuals whose lives center on Challenges, and reflection on personal learning experiences inside and outside of the classroom. When faced with a Challenge, successful groups and individuals leverage experience, harness internal and external resources, develop a plan and push forward to find the best solution. Along the way, there is experimentation, failure, success and ultimately consequences for actions. By adding Challenges to learning environments the result is urgency, passion, and ownership – ingredients often missing in schools.\n\nThe initial framework was documented in a white paper written in 2008 and published by Apple, Inc (Nichols and Cator, 2009). Since that time teachers and schools around the world have adopted the framework to improve teaching and learning while allowing students to make an immediate difference in their community.\n\nIn 2009 New Media Consortium published an in-depth study of challenge-based learning in classroom practice. The study, which involved 6 schools in the United States, 29 teachers, and 330 students in 17 disciplines, found the approach produced dramatically effective results, especially for the 9th-grade students considered to be most at risk of dropping out (Johnson, et al., 2009).\n\nIn 2011 an additional study was conducted to test if the framework applied to a larger K-20 audience and to look deeper into the acquisition of 21st century skills. This study includes 19 schools, 90 teachers and 1500 students from three countries. Once again the research demonstrated that CBL is an effective way to engage students, meet curriculum standards, and gain 21st-century skills. The research also concluded that CBL could be used with students of all ages (Johnson and Adams, 2011).\n\nIn 2016 Apple Inc. engaged Digital Promise, and members of the team that created CBL to update the content, manage the website and develop a book (Nichols, et al., 2016).\n\nThe updated framework in organized into three phases:\nThroughout the process, all participants are expected to document the experience, reflect on practice and share the experience with the world.\n\nThe CBL framework has been extended into new areas including strategic planning, workplace training (O'Mahony, et al., 2012), and mobile software instruction and development (Santos, et al., 2015).\n\nChallenge-based learning is a flexible framework, with each implementation, new ideas surface, the framework is reviewed, and the model evolves.\n\nChallenge-based learning provides:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6677", "title": "Classical liberalism", "text": "Classical liberalism\n\nClassical liberalism is a political ideology and a branch of liberalism which advocates civil liberties under the rule of law with an emphasis on economic freedom. Closely related to economic liberalism, it developed in the early 19th century, building on ideas from the previous century as a response to urbanization and to the Industrial Revolution in Europe and the United States. Notable individuals whose ideas contributed to classical liberalism include John Locke, Jean-Baptiste Say, Thomas Robert Malthus, and David Ricardo. It drew on the classical economic ideas espoused by Adam Smith in Book One of \"The Wealth of Nations\" and on a belief in natural law, utilitarianism, and progress. The term \"classical liberalism\" was applied in retrospect to distinguish earlier 19th-century liberalism from the newer social liberalism.\n\nCore beliefs of classical liberals included new ideas—which departed from both the older conservative idea of society as a family and from the later sociological concept of society as complex set of social networks. Classical liberals believe that individuals are \"egoistic, coldly calculating, essentially inert and atomistic\" and that society is no more than the sum of its individual members.\n\nClassical liberals agreed with Thomas Hobbes that government had been created by individuals to protect themselves from each other and that the purpose of government should be to minimize conflict between individuals that would otherwise arise in a state of nature. These beliefs were complemented by a belief that laborers could be best motivated by financial incentive. This belief led to the passage of the Poor Law Amendment Act 1834, which limited the provision of social assistance, based on the idea that markets are the mechanism that most efficiently leads to wealth. Adopting Thomas Robert Malthus's population theory, they saw poor urban conditions as inevitable, they believed population growth would outstrip food production and they regarded that consequence desirable because starvation would help limit population growth. They opposed any income or wealth redistribution, which they believed would be dissipated by the lowest orders.\n\nDrawing on ideas of Adam Smith, classical liberals believed that it is in the common interest that all individuals be able to secure their own economic self-interest. They were critical of what would come to be the idea of the welfare state as interfering in a free market. Despite Smith’s resolute recognition of the importance and value of labor and of laborers, they selectively criticized labour's group rights being pursued at the expense of individual rights while accepting corporations' rights, which led to inequality of bargaining power.\n\nClassical liberals argued that individuals should be free to obtain work from the highest-paying employers while the profit motive would ensure that products that people desired were produced at prices they would pay. In a free market, both labor and capital would receive the greatest possible reward while production would be organized efficiently to meet consumer demand.\n\nClassical liberals argued for what they called a minimal state, limited to the following functions:\n\nThey asserted that rights are of a negative nature, which require other individuals (and governments) to refrain from interfering with the free market, opposing social liberals who assert that individuals have positive rights, such as the right to vote, the right to an education, the right to health care and the right to a living wage. For society to guarantee positive rights, it requires taxation over and above the minimum needed to enforce negative rights.\n\nCore beliefs of classical liberals did not necessarily include democracy or government by a majority vote by citizens because \"there is nothing in the bare idea of majority rule to show that majorities will always respect the rights of property or maintain rule of law\". For example, James Madison argued for a constitutional republic with protections for individual liberty over a pure democracy, reasoning that in a pure democracy a \"common passion or interest will, in almost every case, be felt by a majority of the whole...and there is nothing to check the inducements to sacrifice the weaker party\".\n\nIn the late 19th century, classical liberalism developed into neo-classical liberalism, which argued for government to be as small as possible to allow the exercise of individual freedom. In its most extreme form, neo-classical liberalism advocated Social Darwinism. Right-libertarianism is a modern form of neo-classical liberalism.\n\nFriedrich Hayek identified two different traditions within classical liberalism: the \"British tradition\" and the \"French tradition\". Hayek saw the British philosophers Bernard Mandeville, David Hume, Adam Smith, Adam Ferguson, Josiah Tucker and William Paley as representative of a tradition that articulated beliefs in empiricism, the common law and in traditions and institutions which had spontaneously evolved but were imperfectly understood. The French tradition included Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Marquis de Condorcet, the Encyclopedists and the Physiocrats. This tradition believed in rationalism and sometimes showed hostility to tradition and religion. Hayek conceded that the national labels did not exactly correspond to those belonging to each tradition: Hayek saw the Frenchmen Montesquieu, Benjamin Constant and Alexis de Tocqueville as belonging to the \"British tradition\" and the British Thomas Hobbes, Joseph Priestley, Richard Price and Thomas Paine as belonging to the \"French tradition\". Hayek also rejected the label \"laissez-faire\" as originating from the French tradition and alien to the beliefs of Hume and Smith.\n\nGuido De Ruggiero also identified differences between \"Montesquieu and Rousseau, the English and the democratic types of liberalism\" and argued that there was a \"profound contrast between the two Liberal systems\". He claimed that the spirit of \"authentic English Liberalism\" had \"built up its work piece by piece without ever destroying what had once been built, but basing upon it every new departure\". This liberalism had \"insensibly adapted ancient institutions to modern needs\" and \"instinctively recoiled from all abstract proclamations of principles and rights\". Ruggiero claimed that this liberalism was challenged by what he called the \"new Liberalism of France\" that was characterised by egalitarianism and a \"rationalistic consciousness\".\n\nIn 1848, Francis Lieber distinguished between what he called \"Anglican and Gallican Liberty\". Lieber asserted that \"independence in the highest degree, compatible with safety and broad national guarantees of liberty, is the great aim of Anglican liberty, and self-reliance is the chief source from which it draws its strength\". On the other hand, Gallican liberty \"is sought in government...the French look for the highest degree of political civilization in organizational, that is, in the highest degree of interference by public power\".\n\nClassical liberalism in Britain developed from Whiggery and radicalism, was also heavily influenced by French physiocracy and represented a new political ideology. Whiggery had become a dominant ideology following the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and was associated with the defence of the British Parliament, upholding the rule of law and defending landed property. The origins of rights were seen as being in an ancient constitution, which had existed from time immemorial. These rights, which some Whigs considered to include freedom of the press and freedom of speech, were justified by custom rather than by natural rights. They believed that the power of the executive had to be constrained. While they supported limited suffrage, they saw voting as a privilege rather than as a right. However, there was no consistency in Whig ideology and diverse writers including John Locke, David Hume, Adam Smith and Edmund Burke were all influential among Whigs, although none of them was universally accepted.\n\nFrom the 1790s to the 1820s, British radicals concentrated on parliamentary and electoral reform, emphasising natural rights and popular sovereignty. Richard Price and Joseph Priestley adapted the language of Locke to the ideology of radicalism. The radicals saw parliamentary reform as a first step toward dealing with their many grievances, including the treatment of Protestant Dissenters, the slave trade, high prices and high taxes.\n\nThere was greater unity to classical liberalism ideology than there had been with Whiggery. Classical liberals were committed to individualism, liberty and equal rights. They believed that required a free economy with minimal government interference. Writers such as John Bright and Richard Cobden opposed both aristocratic privilege and property, which they saw as an impediment to the development of a class of yeoman farmers. Some elements of Whiggery opposed this new thinking and were uncomfortable with the commercial nature of classical liberalism. These elements became associated with conservatism.\nClassical liberalism was the dominant political theory in Britain from the early 19th century until the First World War. Its notable victories were the Catholic Emancipation Act of 1829, the Reform Act of 1832 and the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846. The Anti-Corn Law League brought together a coalition of liberal and radical groups in support of free trade under the leadership of Richard Cobden and John Bright, who opposed militarism and public expenditure. Their policies of low public expenditure and low taxation were adopted by William Ewart Gladstone when he became Chancellor of the Exchequer and later Prime Minister. Classical liberalism was often associated with religious dissent and nonconformism.\n\nAlthough classical liberals aspired to a minimum of state activity, they accepted the principle of government intervention in the economy from the early 19th century with passage of the Factory Acts. From around 1840 to 1860, \"laissez-faire\" advocates of the Manchester School and writers in \"The Economist\" were confident that their early victories would lead to a period of expanding economic and personal liberty and world peace, but would face reversals as government intervention and activity continued to expand from the 1850s. Jeremy Bentham and James Mill, although advocates of \"laissez-faire\", non-intervention in foreign affairs and individual liberty, believed that social institutions could be rationally redesigned through the principles of utilitarianism. The Conservative Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli rejected classical liberalism altogether and advocated Tory democracy. By the 1870s, Herbert Spencer and other classical liberals concluded that historical development was turning against them. By the First World War, the Liberal Party had largely abandoned classical liberal principles.\n\nThe changing economic and social conditions of the 19th century led to a division between neo-classical and social (or welfare) liberals, who while agreeing on the importance of individual liberty differed on the role of the state. Neo-classical liberals, who called themselves \"true liberals\", saw Locke's \"Second Treatise\" as the best guide and emphasised \"limited government\" while social liberals supported government regulation and the welfare state. Herbert Spencer in Britain and William Graham Sumner were the leading neo-classical liberal theorists of the 19th century. Neo-classical liberalism has continued into the contemporary era, with writers such as John Rawls. The evolution from classical to social/welfare liberalism is for example reflected in Britain in the evolution of the thought of John Maynard Keynes.\n\nIn the United States, liberalism took a strong root because it had little opposition to its ideals, whereas in Europe liberalism was opposed by many reactionary or feudal interests such as the nobility, the aristocracy, the landed gentry, the established church and the aristocratic army officers.\n\nThomas Jefferson adopted many of the ideals of liberalism, but in the Declaration of Independence changed Locke's \"life, liberty and property\" to the more socially liberal \"Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness\". As the United States grew, industry became a larger and larger part of American life; and during the term of its first populist President, Andrew Jackson, economic questions came to the forefront. The economic ideas of the Jacksonian era were almost universally the ideas of classical liberalism. Freedom was maximised when the government took a \"hands off\" attitude toward the economy. \n\nHistorian Kathleen G. Donohue argues:\n\nLeading magazine \"The Nation\" espoused liberalism every week starting in 1865 under the influential editor Edwin Lawrence Godkin (1831–1902).\n\nThe ideas of classical liberalism remained essentially unchallenged until a series of depressions, thought to be impossible according to the tenets of classical economics, led to economic hardship from which the voters demanded relief. In the words of William Jennings Bryan, \"You shall not crucify the American farmer on a cross of gold\". Classical liberalism remained the orthodox belief among American businessmen until the Great Depression.\n\nThe Great Depression of the 1930s saw a sea change in liberalism, with priority shifting from the producers to consumers. Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal represented the dominance of modern liberalism in politics for decades. In the words of Arthur Schlesinger Jr.: \n\nAlan Wolfe summarizes the viewpoint that there is a continuous liberal understanding that includes both Adam Smith and John Maynard Keynes: \n\nThe view that modern liberalism is a continuation of classical liberalism is not universally shared. James Kurth, Robert E. Lerner, John Micklethwait, Adrian Wooldridge and several other political scholars have argued that classical liberalism still exists today, but in the form of American conservatism. According to Deepak Lal, only in the United States does classical liberalism—through American conservatives—continue to be a significant political force.\n\nCentral to classical liberal ideology was their interpretation of John Locke's \"Second Treatise of Government\" and \"A Letter Concerning Toleration\", which had been written as a defence of the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Although these writings were considered too radical at the time for Britain's new rulers, they later came to be cited by Whigs, radicals and supporters of the American Revolution. However, much of later liberal thought was absent in Locke's writings or scarcely mentioned and his writings have been subject to various interpretations. For example, there is little mention of constitutionalism, the separation of powers and limited government.\n\nJames L. Richardson identified five central themes in Locke's writing: individualism, consent, the concepts of the rule of law and government as trustee, the significance of property and religious toleration. Although Locke did not develop a theory of natural rights, he envisioned individuals in the state of nature as being free and equal. The individual, rather than the community or institutions, was the point of reference. Locke believed that individuals had given consent to government and therefore authority derived from the people rather than from above. This belief would influence later revolutionary movements.\n\nAs a trustee, government was expected to serve the interests of the people, not the rulers; and rulers were expected to follow the laws enacted by legislatures. Locke also held that the main purpose of men uniting into commonwealths and governments was for the preservation of their property. Despite the ambiguity of Locke's definition of property, which limited property to \"as much land as a man tills, plants, improves, cultivates, and can use the product of\", this principle held great appeal to individuals possessed of great wealth.\n\nLocke held that the individual had the right to follow his own religious beliefs and that the state should not impose a religion against Dissenters, but there were limitations. No tolerance should be shown for atheists, who were seen as amoral, or to Catholics, who were seen as owing allegiance to the Pope over their own national government.\n\nAdam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\", published in 1776, was to provide most of the ideas of economics, at least until the publication of John Stuart Mill's \"Principles of Political Economy\" in 1848. Smith addressed the motivation for economic activity, the causes of prices and the distribution of wealth and the policies the state should follow to maximise wealth.\n\nSmith wrote that as long as supply, demand, prices and competition were left free of government regulation, the pursuit of material self-interest, rather than altruism, would maximise the wealth of a society through profit-driven production of goods and services. An \"invisible hand\" directed individuals and firms to work toward the public good as an unintended consequence of efforts to maximise their own gain. This provided a moral justification for the accumulation of wealth, which had previously been viewed by some as sinful.\n\nHe assumed that workers could be paid wages as low as was necessary for their survival, which was later transformed by David Ricardo and Thomas Robert Malthus into the \"iron law of wages\". His main emphasis was on the benefit of free internal and international trade, which he thought could increase wealth through specialisation in production. He also opposed restrictive trade preferences, state grants of monopolies and employers' organisations and trade unions. Government should be limited to defence, public works and the administration of justice, financed by taxes based on income.\n\nSmith's economics was carried into practice in the nineteenth century with the lowering of tariffs in the 1820s, the repeal of the Poor Relief Act that had restricted the mobility of labour in 1834 and the end of the rule of the East India Company over India in 1858.\n\nIn addition to Smith's legacy, Say's law, Thomas Robert Malthus' theories of population and David Ricardo's iron law of wages became central doctrines of classical economics. The pessimistic nature of these theories provided a basis for criticism of capitalism by its opponents and helped perpetuate the tradition of calling economics the \"dismal science\".\n\nJean-Baptiste Say was a French economist who introduced Smith's economic theories into France and whose commentaries on Smith were read in both France and Britain. Say challenged Smith's labour theory of value, believing that prices were determined by utility and also emphasised the critical role of the entrepreneur in the economy. However, neither of those observations became accepted by British economists at the time. His most important contribution to economic thinking was Say's law, which was interpreted by classical economists that there could be no overproduction in a market and that there would always be a balance between supply and demand. This general belief influenced government policies until the 1930s. Following this law, since the economic cycle was seen as self-correcting, government did not intervene during periods of economic hardship because it was seen as futile.\n\nMalthus wrote two books, \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\" (published in 1798) and \"Principles of Political Economy\" (published in 1820). The second book which was a rebuttal of Say's law had little influence on contemporary economists. However, his first book became a major influence on classical liberalism. In that book, Malthus claimed that population growth would outstrip food production because population grew geometrically while food production grew arithmetically. As people were provided with food, they would reproduce until their growth outstripped the food supply. Nature would then provide a check to growth in the forms of vice and misery. No gains in income could prevent this and any welfare for the poor would be self-defeating. The poor were in fact responsible for their own problems which could have been avoided through self-restraint.\n\nRicardo, who was an admirer of Smith, covered many of the same topics, but while Smith drew conclusions from broadly empirical observations he used deduction, drawing conclusions by reasoning from basic assumptions While Ricardo accepted Smith's labour theory of value, he acknowledged that utility could influence the price of some rare items. Rents on agricultural land were seen as the production that was surplus to the subsistence required by the tenants. Wages were seen as the amount required for workers' subsistence and to maintain current population levels. According to his iron law of wages, wages could never rise beyond subsistence levels. Ricardo explained profits as a return on capital, which itself was the product of labour, but a conclusion many drew from his theory was that profit was a surplus appropriated by capitalists to which they were not entitled.\n\nUtilitarianism provided the political justification for implementation of economic liberalism by British governments, which was to dominate economic policy from the 1830s. Although utilitarianism prompted legislative and administrative reform and John Stuart Mill's later writings on the subject foreshadowed the welfare state, it was mainly used as a justification for \"laissez-faire\".\n\nThe central concept of utilitarianism, which was developed by Jeremy Bentham, was that public policy should seek to provide \"the greatest happiness of the greatest number\". While this could be interpreted as a justification for state action to reduce poverty, it was used by classical liberals to justify inaction with the argument that the net benefit to all individuals would be higher.\n\nClassical liberals saw utility as the foundation for public policies. This broke both with conservative \"tradition\" and Lockean \"natural rights\", which were seen as irrational. Utility, which emphasises the happiness of individuals, became the central ethical value of all liberalism. Although utilitarianism inspired wide-ranging reforms, it became primarily a justification for \"laissez-faire\" economics. However, classical liberals rejected Smith's belief that the \"invisible hand\" would lead to general benefits and embraced Malthus' view that population expansion would prevent any general benefit and Ricardo's view of the inevitability of class conflict. \"Laissez-faire\" was seen as the only possible economic approach and any government intervention was seen as useless and harmful. The Poor Law Amendment Act 1834 was defended on \"scientific or economic principles\" while the authors of the Elizabethan Poor Law of 1601 were seen as not having had the benefit of reading Malthus.\n\nHowever, commitment to \"laissez-faire\" was not uniform and some economists advocated state support of public works and education. Classical liberals were also divided on free trade as Ricardo expressed doubt that the removal of grain tariffs advocated by Richard Cobden and the Anti-Corn Law League would have any general benefits. Most classical liberals also supported legislation to regulate the number of hours that children were allowed to work and usually did not oppose factory reform legislation.\n\nDespite the pragmatism of classical economists, their views were expressed in dogmatic terms by such popular writers as Jane Marcet and Harriet Martineau. The strongest defender of \"laissez-faire\" was \"The Economist\" founded by James Wilson in 1843. \"The Economist\" criticised Ricardo for his lack of support for free trade and expressed hostility to welfare, believing that the lower orders were responsible for their economic circumstances. \"The Economist\" took the position that regulation of factory hours was harmful to workers and also strongly opposed state support for education, health, the provision of water and granting of patents and copyrights.\n\n\"The Economist\" also campaigned against the Corn Laws that protected landlords in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland against competition from less expensive foreign imports of cereal products. A rigid belief in \"laissez-faire\" guided the government response in 1846–1849 to the Great Famine in Ireland, during which an estimated 1.5 million people died. The minister responsible for economic and financial affairs, Charles Wood, expected that private enterprise and free trade, rather than government intervention, would alleviate the famine. The Corn Laws were finally repealed in 1846 by the removal of tariffs on grain which kept the price of bread artificially high, but it came too late to stop the Irish famine, partly because it was done in stages over three years.\n\nSeveral liberals, including Smith and Cobden, argued that the free exchange of goods between nations could lead to world peace. Erik Gartzke states: \"Scholars like Montesquieu, Adam Smith, Richard Cobden, Norman Angell, and Richard Rosecrance have long speculated that free markets have the potential to free states from the looming prospect of recurrent warfare\". American political scientists John R. Oneal and Bruce M. Russett, well known for their work on the democratic peace theory, state: \n\nIn \"The Wealth of Nations\", Smith argued that as societies progressed from hunter gatherers to industrial societies the spoils of war would rise, but that the costs of war would rise further and thus making war difficult and costly for industrialised nations: \nCobden believed that military expenditures worsened the welfare of the state and benefited a small, but concentrated elite minority, summing up British imperialism, which he believed was the result of the economic restrictions of mercantilist policies. To Cobden and many classical liberals, those who advocated peace must also advocate free markets. The belief that free trade would promote peace was widely shared by English liberals of the 19th and early 20th century, leading the economist John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946), who was a classical liberal in his early life, to say that this was a doctrine on which he was \"brought up\" and which he held unquestioned only until the 1920s. In his review of a book on Keynes, Michael S. Lawlor argues that it may be in large part due to Keynes' contributions in economics and politics, as in the implementation of the Marshall Plan and the way economies have been managed since his work, \"that we have the luxury of not facing his unpalatable choice between free trade and full employment\". A related manifestation of this idea was the argument of Norman Angell (1872–1967), most famously before World War I in \"The Great Illusion\" (1909), that the interdependence of the economies of the major powers was now so great that war between them was futile and irrational; and therefore unlikely.\n\n"}
{"id": "289407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289407", "title": "Computer art scene", "text": "Computer art scene\n\nThe computer art scene, or simply artscene, is the community interested and active in the creation of computer-based artwork.\n\nThe history of computer art predates the computer art scene for several decades, with the first experiments having taken place in the early 1950s. Devices like plotters and teletypewriters were commonly used instead of video display screens. The earliest precursors to ASCII art can be found in RTTY art, that is, pictures created by amateur radio enthusiasts with teleprinters using the Baudot code.\n\nIn the early days of microcomputers, what could be shown on a typical video display screen was limited to plain and simple text, such as that found in the ASCII code set. In the early 1980s, users of IBM PC compatible computers began to experiment with ways of forming simple pictures and designs using only the 255 characters within the Extended ASCII character set, specifically known as code page 437, created by IBM. Modems and networking technology allowed computer users to communicate with each other over bulletin board systems (BBSes); the operators of these BBSes used ASCII art to enhance the aesthetic appearance of their systems. The common user interface or video mode shared by all systems was plain text. As a result, a \"scene\" of artists arose to fill the need for original art to distinguish one BBS from another.\n\nMany home computers of the late 1970s and early 1980s were able to display 16 colors in 320x200 or 640x200. At a time when IBM PCs were limited to monochrome (2 colors) or CGA (4 colors), the Atari 800 and Commodore 64 were being used at home to create 16-color art (see upper half of image at right).\n\nIn 1985, the Commodore Amiga arrived with the ability to display 640x480 near-photorealistic 4096-color graphics that could be exported via the NTSC standard. Eventually this capability was used by Disney animators in movies such as \"The Little Mermaid\" and by TV producers in shows such as \"SeaQuest\" and \"Babylon 5\".\n\nAs computer technology developed, the American National Standards Institute X3 committee invented a standard method of terminal control using escape sequences called \"ANSI X3.64-1979\". This protocol allowed for text and cursor positioning as well as defining foreground and background color attributes for the text.\n\nEventually, text artists began incorporating this new level of flexibility to the existing medium of ASCII art by adding color to their text-based art, or animating their art by manipulating the cursor control codes. This is what is commonly referred to today as \"ANSI art\" that is used in many scene nfos.\n\nA decade later, the popularity of ANSI art had increased significantly (largely due to the similarly increasing interest in the BBS) and ANSI artists began to form into \"groups\", not unlike graffiti \"crews.\" The first ANSI group was called Aces of ANSI Art (AAA). Though no official founding date can be established for this group, its earliest surviving tribute packs are dated December 1991 and includes art dated back to 1989.\n\nOther groups like ACiD (ANSI Creators in Demand) and iCE (Insane Creators Enterprises) quickly began to spring up. Beginning in June 1992, these groups would release their work in monthly \"ARTPACKS,\" which were collections of ASCII art submitted by the group's various members, as well as news and membership lists. These artpacks were then spread far and wide by BBS users. Some of the same groups from the 1990s still exist today; their art is now primarily distributed using the internet.\n\nA later method of transmitting graphics over a BBS was developed called Remote Imaging Protocol or RIP, which required special software on both the BBS and the terminal end. RIP was still basically text, but the text referred to the positions of lines, curves, fills, and other steps in drawing graphics on an EGA display of 640x350x16 colors. While RIP never caught on in the BBS world, the art scene embraced it as a form of expression, if not a viable method of displaying art on a BBS.\n\nIn 1987 IBM introduced the VGA card. Early VGA graphics were \"high resolution\" images, generally using an 8-bit depth (256 colors) and a resolution of 320x200x256, 360x480x256 (hacked Mode X), or 640x480x16 colors. VGA was not intended to be displayed via a BBS and the vast majority of the early works in the IBM PC artscene were distributed as coded executables called \"\"loaders\" or \"intros\" rather than raw bitmap images. In fact, it was considered to be \"lame\"\" to release an uncoded VGA work of art from the early- to mid-1990s, a sure indication that your group was not skilled enough to retain a worthy programmer.\n\nThe advent of custom image viewers developed by groups within the artscene, such as ACiD View and iCEView, began to shift the perception of how VGA art should be distributed and what the accepted practice should be. A coded VGA which did not take any of the advantages of being an executable, like special effects or music, became viewed as an impractical use of disk space—all of this in turn spawned a number of competing image viewers, and even \"Viewer Wars\" between rival art groups. Talented underground artists such as CatBones continued to help pioneer and define what is now referred to as the \"hirez artscene\", further championing the move away from coded VGA to stand-alone imagery with his impressive artwork. \"Hirez\" today implies higher resolutions than before, such as a 1024x768 pixel canvas or larger, greater depth of color, and is created with much more sophisticated and modern software.\n\nDespite the fact that contributors to the artscene can be found worldwide, the scene continues to remain detached from mainstream bbs and internet culture. This can be seen as a result of the artscene's early affiliations with hacker and software piracy (warez) organizations. As early demoscene groups were organized by cracktros coders, artscene members were often found designing the .nfo files detailing warez releases. In addition much of the ansi art provided for warez BBSes was drawn by future members of the artscene. Prior to the popularity of the internet in the 1990s, the most efficient way to distribute software and files across BBSes was via a courier system. Both the warez scene and the artscene utilized this system, and in many cases warez couriers could be found distributing monthly artpacks.\n\nIn addition to connection that the various had, a common attitude and relationship between scene members developed. The general belief that \"newbies are lame\" and \"veterans are elite\", as well as the use of leetspeek, created an environment that was sometimes difficult for new members to enter. In particular, many artsceners' distrust and bitterness towards new America Online users in the 1990s may have eroded the possibility for a wider membership base and audience for the artscene.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57225457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57225457", "title": "Cultural legacy of Mazeppa", "text": "Cultural legacy of Mazeppa\n\n\nIvan Mazepa (1639–1709) was a significant figure in the history of Ukraine. One story about him says that as a young man, he was caught \"in flagrante\" with a noblewoman, whose husband punished him by tying him naked to a wild horse and setting them free; eventually he reached the Cossacks and became their military leader. This caught the attention of the English poet Lord Byron (\"mad, bad, and dangerous to know\"), whose \"Mazeppa\" (1819) brought the events to wider attention. His narrative poem inspired many paintings, particularly by French Romantics, which in turn stimulated musical compositions, stage plays, more poems, and so on. New life was breathed into the equestrian tale when it was transposed to the American Wild West.\n\nMazepa served as Hetman of Zaporizhian Host in 1687–1708. He played an important role in the Battle of Poltava (1709), where after learning that the Russian Tsar, Peter the Great, intended to replace him with Alexander Menshikov, he deserted his army and sided with King Charles XII of Sweden. The political consequences and interpretation of this desertion have resonated in the national histories both of Russia and of Ukraine. The alienation of Mazepa from Ukrainian historiography continued during the Soviet period, but post-1991 in independent Ukraine there have been strong moves to rehabilitate Mazepa's image, although he remains a controversial figure.\n\nLord Byron published his narrative poem in 1819. According to the poem, the young Mazeppa has a love affair with a Polish Countess Theresa while serving as a page at the Court of King John II Casimir Vasa. Countess Theresa was married to a much older Count. On discovering the affair, the Count punishes Mazeppa by tying him naked to a wild horse and setting the horse loose. The bulk of the poem describes the traumatic journey of the hero strapped to the horse. The poem has been praised for its \"vigor of style and its sharp realization of the feelings of suffering and endurance\".\n\nThere is no historical evidence to support that Mazepa was exiled from Poland because of a love affair, or that he was punished by being strapped to a wild horse. However, this colorful legend was in circulation before Byron published his poem. Voltaire repeats it in \"History of Charles XII, King of Sweden\" (1731). This appears to have been Byron's main source for his poem: his 'Advertisement' to the poem includes three long quotations from this work. Several critics have also speculated that Byron was familiar with the \"Mémoires d'Azéma\" (1764) by the French writer André Guillaume Contant Dorville, as there are significant similarities between the plot of that novel and of Byron's poem.\n\nByron's poem was both popular and influential in the Romantic period. Horses in art had long been a popular theme, so when the poem was translated into French the same year by Amédée Pichot, a wave of French painters decided to depict Mazeppa's \"wild ride\", including Théodore Géricault (1823, now held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art), Eugène Delacroix (1824, Finnish National Gallery), Horace Vernet (1826, Musée Calvet in Avignon), and Louis Boulanger (1827, the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rouen). Boulanger's \"The Ordeal of Mazeppa\" and Vernet's \"Mazeppa and the Wolves\" both competed in the Salon of 1827.\n\nA theatrical version of the story soon appeared: a show called \"Mazeppa, or the Tartar Horse\" premiered at Antonio Franconi's Cirque Olympique in Paris in 1825. This was copied in both the USA and England. Aleksandr Pushkin wrote a poem-response to Byron entitled \"Poltava\" (1828–29), which opens with an epigraph from the Englishman's poem, and in which he portrays Mazeppa as a villain who betrayed Russians.\n\nVictor Hugo was inspired by the French Romantic paintings to compose \"Mazeppa\", one of the major pieces in \"Les Orientales\" (1829), which he dedicated to Boulanger. The first part of his poem describes Mazeppa's run across Ukrainian plains. The second part compares Mazeppa to a poet banned from the living world because of his eccentricities, the banned poet is attached to the wild horse of his inspiration. The comparison to the poet ends by saying that this crazy trip through suffering finally gives success and glory to the poet.\n\nThe playwright Henry M. Milner wrote \"Mazeppa; or, The wild horse of Tartary. A romantic drama, in three acts. Dramatised from Lord Byron's poem by H.M. Milner, and adapted to the stage under the direction of Mr. Ducrow.\" (This was Andrew Ducrow, the \"Father of British circus equestrianism\" and proprietor of Astley's Amphitheatre.) It appeared in London in 1831. Over the next several years it toured the US, until \"at one point, five different productions of the play were showing in San Francisco\".\n\nJohn Frederick Herring Sr., an Englishman who started out as a stagecoach driver, painted several versions of the story: two are \"after Horace Vernet\" (circa 1833, Tate and in 1842 \"MAZEPPA\". In 1846, the American lithographer Nathaniel Currier, of Currier and Ives, prepared four plates, with Byronic quotations; the artworks are now at Bridgeman Art Library.\n\nJuliusz Słowacki, a major figure in the Polish Romantic period, wrote a play entitled \"Mazeppa\" (1840). Although he is now considered the father of modern Polish drama, it was the only one of his dramas that was put on stage during his lifetime. James Malcolm Rymer, a British writer of penny dreadfuls, wrote \"Mazeppa; or, The Wild Horse of the Ukraine: A Romance\" (1850).\n\nMusicians were also inspired. Carl Loewe composed a tone-poem. A generation after Hugo published his poem, it became the literary inspiration for a symphonic poem (1851) and a Transcendental Étude (1852) by Franz Liszt. Another French Romantic painter, Théodore Chassériau, re-interpreted Byron's poem, with \"Cossack girl at Mazeppa 's body\" (1851, Musée des Beaux-Arts de Strasbourg). The Irishman Michael William Balfe composed a cantata known as \"The Page\" or \"Mazeppa\" in 1861.\n\nMilner's play was adapted and burlesqued over the decades. For example, in 1856 it was re-written as an equestrian burlesque in two acts, by blackface minstrel entertainer Charles \"Charlie\" White. The main antagonist is Castiron, and his daughter is Olinska. The Mazeppa story became \"a well-worn melodrama in dire need of revitalization\", which it received from the performer Adah Isaacs Menken. Other women had played Mazeppa, including Charlotte Cushman, but Menken's interpretation -- \"sexing up\" the part, scandalously performing the nude scene clad only in a flesh-colored bodystocking—really caught the public imagination. Many other female Mazeppas followed, as did a new wave of burlesques. \"Mazeppa\" was very popular during the American Civil War and became the most widely performed drama in the American west from the 1860s until the turn of the century, and was also popular in London.\n\nAgnes Thatcher Lake, a circus performer and equestrian all her life, took a production of \"Mazeppa\" to Europe in 1865, performing before Prince Karl of Prussia. She then took her production across the United States, the only circus to do so, performing under her company's big top tents in towns and cities without a theatre big enough to host a stage show. A 2009 biography of Lake (who later married Wild Bill Hickok) estimates that two million Americans saw her athletic interpretation of Mazeppa, many more than saw Menken's sexualised one .\n\nIn 1877, Albert Aiken wrote a dime novel called \"The Indian Mazeppa or The Madman of the Plains\", in which the myth is transposed to the Wild West.\n\nPushkin's poem became the subject of an opera entitled \"Mazeppa\", written between 1881 and 1883, with three acts and six scenes. The music is by Tchaikovsky and the libretto by Victor Burenin. It is set in Ukraine in the 18th century, and is a story about love, abduction, political persecution and vengeful murder.\n\nIn 1910, Francis Boggs produced a short film based on the stage play of Byron's poem titled \"Mazeppa or the Wild horse of Tartary\".\n\nIn 1991, Ukraine declared independence, and Mazeppa rose again in international consciousness. A French drama film titled \"Mazeppa\", based loosely on the lives of the painter Géricault and the equestrian Franconi, won a prize at the 1993 Cannes Film Festival. Gericault decided to stay and live with the circus and painted only horses to try and understand the mystery of this animal; Mazeppa embodies a man carried away by his passion.\n\nA Ukrainian film by Yuri Ilyenko loosely based on historical facts, called \"A Prayer for Hetman Mazepa\" was released in 2002.\n\nA South African interpretation of the Mazepa-Mazeppa motif describes it as \"Romantic Phaethon\" (a character in Greek mythology who drove the sun-chariot too recklessly) and points to its appeal to Modernist poets such as Bertol Brecht and Roy Campbell.\n"}
{"id": "682524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682524", "title": "Culture of Cuba", "text": "Culture of Cuba\n\nThe culture of Cuba is a complex mixture of different, often contradicting, factors and influences. The Cuban people and their customs are based on European, African and Amerindian influences.\n\nThe music of Cuba, including the instruments and the dances, is mostly of European and African origin. Most forms of the present day are creolized fusions and mixtures of these two great sources. Almost nothing remains of the original Native traditions.\n\nFernando Ortíz, the first great Cuban folklorist, described Cuba's musical innovations as arising from the interplay ('transculturation') between African slaves settled on large sugarcane plantations and Spanish or Canary Islanders who grew tobacco on small farms. The African slaves and their descendants reconstructed large numbers of percussive instruments and corresponding rhythms. The great instrumental contribution of the Spanish was their guitar, but even more important was the tradition of European musical notation and techniques of musical composition.\n\nAfrican beliefs and practices are most certainly an influence in Cuba's music. Polyrhythmic percussion is an inherent part of African life & music, as melody is part of European music. Also, in African tradition, percussion is always joined to song and dance, and to a particular social setting. It is not simply entertainment added to life, it \"is\" life. The result of the meeting of European and African cultures is that most Cuban popular music is creolized. This creolization of Cuban life has been happening for a long time, and by the 20th century, elements of African belief, music and dance were well integrated into popular and folk forms.\n\nThe roots of most Afro-Cuban musical forms lie in the cabildos, self-organized social clubs for the African slaves, separate cabildos for separate cultures. The cabildos were formed mainly from four groups: the Yoruba (the Lucumi in Cuba); the Congolese (Palo in Cuba); Dahomey (the Fon or Arará). Other cultures were undoubtedly present, but in smaller numbers, and they did not leave such a distinctive presence. At the same time, African religions were transmitted from generation to generation throughout Cuba, Haiti, other islands and Brazil. These religions, which had a similar but not identical structure, were known as \"Lucumi\" or \"Regla de Ocha\" if they derived from the Yoruba, \"Palo\" from Central Africa, \"Vodú\" from Haiti, and so on. The term \"Santería\" was first introduced to account for the way African spirits were joined to Catholic saints, especially by people who were both baptized and initiated, and so were genuinely members of both groups. By the 20th century, elements of Santería music had appeared in popular and folk forms.\n\nOne of the main rhythmic fusions in Cuban music is the son. Other typical Cuban forms are the habanera, the guaracha, the danzón, the rumba, the bolero, the chachachá, the mambo,the cha-cha-cha, the punto, and many variations on these themes. Cuban music has been immensely popular and influential in other countries. It was the original basis of salsa and contributed not only to the development of jazz, but also to Argentinian tango, Ghanaian high-life, West African Afrobeat, and Spanish nuevo flamenco. Within modern Cuba, there are also popular musicians working in the rock and reggaeton idioms.\n\nCuban hip-hop is one of the latest genres of music to be embraced not only by the country's youth but also, more reluctantly, by the government. Initially, hip-hop was shunned by the authorities, because of its affiliation to America and capitalism. As more Cuban youth put their own energy and style into the music, Cuban hip-hop eventually became more acceptable. \"The Cuban government now sees rap music – long considered the music of American imperialism – as a road map to the hearts and minds of the young generation\" is one opinion.\n\n and the benefits of sports (he loved and used to play baseball) has resulted in Cuba's relative international success for a population of 11 million in sporting events such as the Olympic Games. Unlike in most of Latin America, but like many nations of the Caribbean and some of Central America, football is not a major game in Cuba, but is gaining popularity. Baseball is the most popular sport in Cuba. Introduced by American dockworkers in Havana in the 19th century, the game has played a role in Cuban independence from Spain. Banned in 1895 by the Spanish, secret games funded José Martí's revolt. Cuban \"peloteros\" rank highly internationally and some have migrated to Major League Baseball in the United States. The Cuba national baseball team finished second in the first World Baseball Classic against the Japanese national team. Boxing is also rather popular in Cuba. They also enjoy basketball, track and field, volleyball, and rugby union.\n\nEvery year, Cuba holds the School Sports Games, a competition for students . The best athletes from age 11 to 16 are invited to be tested for the Schools for Sports Initiation (Spanish acronym: EIDE). EIDE students attend regular classes, receive advanced coaching and take part in higher level competitions. The top graduates from the school enter one of several Schools of Higher Athletic Performance (Spanish acronym: ESPA).\n\nA ration book called a \"libreta\" is supposed to guarantee a range of products from shops, however, there are still massive shortages and even rations are not guaranteed to be delivered timely or at all.\nThe Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 ended grain imports from that country, which were used to feed cattle and chickens. In 1991, beef, chicken, milk and eggs became scarce.\n\nA lack of fuel for agricultural machinery meant that crops had to be harvested manually (by people), drastically decreasing Cuba's food production capabilities. These problems have improved a little in recent years, but shortages are still common. To supplement their rations, Cubans resort to non-rationed food stores (where prices are nevertheless several times those of the \"libreta\"), or to the black market.\n\nTraditional Cuban food is, as most cultural aspects of this country, a syncretism of Spanish, African and Caribbean cuisines, with a small but noteworthy Chinese influence. The most popular foods are black beans, rice, and meat.\n\nOne example of traditional Cuban cuisine, or \"criollo\" as it is called, is \"moros y cristianos\", \"Moors and Christians\", rice with black beans. \"Criollo\" uses many different seasonings, with some of the most common being onion and garlic. Cassava, rice, beans, eggs, tomatoes, lettuce, chicken, beef and pork are all common ingredients.\n\nCoffee is of high quality and grown mainly for export.\n\nCuba's policy on religion has changed much since 1959, when religious Cubans were persecuted and could be denied jobs or an education by the government.\n\nIn the 1970s, the relationship between the government and religious institutions (especially the Roman Catholic Church) began to improve. By 1976, the state granted Cuban citizens religious freedom, with some restrictions. In 1992, the constitution was amended to allow total religious freedom. About 60% of Cubans today are Catholic. Some Catholic traditions were lost, but the church has imported the Mexican Christmas play (pastorela) trying to reconnect Cubans to Christianity. Cuba is a primarily Christian country.\n\nAnother large religion in Cuba is Santería. Santería is a blend of Catholicism and traditional Yoruba religions. When African slaves first arrived in Cuba during the 16th century, they were taught a few simple prayers and were baptised by the Spanish. The slaves combined this limited form of Catholicism with their traditional religions to create Santería, which survives to this day. During colonial times and into the early Republic, many Cubans suffered from intense ethnocentrism and confused Afro-Cuban religion with black magic and witchcraft. This caused them to associate practitioners of Santería and other Afro-Cuban cultures with criminals and the underworld, and to discriminate against practitioners without understanding the nature of their religion. Because most practitioners of Santería in those years were of African heritage, racist attitudes emerged around the religion, and many whites in Cuba considered it to be subversive and threatening. Those who practiced Santería often resorted to secrecy as a way to avoid persecution. Fernando Ortiz, Lydia Cabrera, and Rómulo Lachatañeré are considered the founders of Afro-Cuban studies in Cuba and were the first to give scholarly attention to Santería as an important religion in Cuba.\n\nAs a former colony of Spain, Cuba uses the Spanish language. After the Cuban Revolution, the term \"compañero/compañera\", meaning \"comrade\", came to gradually replace the traditional \"señor/señora\" as the universal polite title of address for strangers. A significant number of Afro-Cubans as well as biracial Cubans speak Haitian Creole. Haitian Creole is the second-most spoken language as well as a recognized one in Cuba, with approximately 300,000 speakers - about 4% of the population. (Haiti was a French colony - Saint-Domingue - from the early 17th century, and the final years of the 1791–1804 Haitian Revolution brought a wave of French settlers fleeing with their Haitian slaves to Cuba.)\n\nMany words from Cuban Amerindian languages have entered common usage in both Spanish and English, such as the Taíno words \"canoa\", \"tobacco\" and \"huracán\". Some of the place names are Indian, such as Guanabacoa and Guanajay.\n\nEnglish is often used in big cities.\n\nWhen speaking to the elderly, or to strangers, Cubans speak more formally as a sign of respect. They shake hands upon greeting someone and farewelling them. Men often exchange friendly hugs (\"abrazos\") and it is also common for both men and women to greet friends and family with a hug and a kiss on the cheek. Informalities like addressing a stranger with 'mi corazón' (\"my heart\"), 'mi vida' (\"my life\"), or 'cariño' (\"dear\") occur commonly.\n\nThe Revolution of 1959 sparked the turning point in Cuban family life by promoting women's equality. New laws and policies resulted in women being educated, employed, and increased their civil/human rights. Cuban revolutionary thought promoted class equality rather than gender equality, but women still benefited indirectly from social changes. Because Cubans, like many Latin Americans, tend to live together as a nuclear family, grandparents often provide childcare for women in the household who work outside the home, or attend school. The Maternity Law actually 'created' the working woman in Cuba [state when this law was passed, and what it says]. \"Whereas in 1955, 13 percent of the workforce was women, by 1989, the number had risen to 38.7 percent of the workforce in Cuba.\". In addition, The Family Code of 1975, especially Article 26 of the code, called for women and men to take equal responsibility for domestic labor and childcare. Marriages, divorce, children's rights, adoption, and marital property were addressed in this new law, as were the division of family responsibilities, equal rights for marriage partners, and the sharing of household tasks. However, there were still 'personal' obligations that women had to assume with marriage, such as 'maternal rights,' which were a norm in Cuban traditional society. Despite progressive measures imposed by law, some traditions remained intact, and new norms for the Cuban family took time to develop.\n\nMarriage rates in Cuba have traditionally been significantly stagnant. In the 1980s and the early 1990s marriage rates were relatively high, with 151 and 171 marriages per every 1000 inhabitants respectively. Women [university] educated tended to get married at an older age, and have fewer children; compared to \"publicly schooled\" educated women. Informal relations between a married man and an unmarried woman has been evaluated as such; \"28% were women under 30 while the percentage of married women in that time was 23% (as of the late 1980's).\" \"Women under the age of 20 were 21% opposed to the 7% of women married at that age (still in the same time period).\". Yet, this is seen as a typical circumstance in Cuba at that time. Legal marriages vs. illegal marriages are 35% vs. 28%. On average in the 1980s most people got married around 19 to 20 years old, still, with a more developed educational system women are becoming more independent, studying, and working better jobs, that since \"1994 most people are now getting married around the ages of 30-35.\".\n\nDivorce rates have been a growing fight in Cuba. When the revolution of 1959 occurred, divorce rates were starting to be observed for the first time. Comparing this information throughout different time periods in Cuban life, in \"1960 it was 0.1%, 0.3% in the 1980's, 0.35% in 1990, 0.41% in 1991, 0.51% in 1992.\". This contributed to the fact Cubans moving away from the Catholic Church and therefore divorce was no longer a social stigma as it had been in the past. Also, when the economy started picking up and in 1998, the divorce rate returned to the rate in \"1990 of 0.35%, and 0.354%.\". The divorce rate skyrocketed in 1991 and 1992 to a point of collapse, in an almost instantaneous result of the secession of the USSR. \"The import/export dropped about 80%,\" petroleum that was received by Russia ceased, and this did not rebuild (economically) until 2000, when agricultural growth started to pick up. However, Cuba hit rock bottom in 1994, only two years after the succession of the USSR. This was during the Special Period in Cuba which created additional strain on marriages and split families apart for economic reasons.\n\nCuba is somewhat pro-choice despite the historically strong Catholic influence on moral culture in the nation. When Cuba moved away from the Catholic Church, abortion was legalized and negative social and religious consequences for women faded. The Church has little to no impact on the way women think about abortion. The use of contraceptives, birth control, and abortions seem to keep family sizes somewhat small and \"modern\" in comparison to other Latin American countries.\n\n\"The state does not give any special aid to one parent families; however, it gives special needs to the children of single parent families. The Cuban government supports women being economically independent, though, dislikes the results of higher divorce rates, more underage impregnated teens, and female-headed households.\". With the Family Code of 1975, which aimed at strengthening the standard (two-parent nuclear family), was not the case. Remarriage and re-coupling was common, so divorce rates reflected a minority of Cuba's population as divorce. \"As of 1992, couples under the ages of 20 were likely to get divorced,\" as were couples in urban areas. It is estimated that around \"200,000 single parents are present in Cuba.\" As a matter of fact, observations in the Cuban community in \"1992 shows that 15-20% of households with children are headed by women alone.\" \n\nPre-Revolutionary attempts for children shelters, protection houses, and places to keep children off the street were clearly expressed by Skaine:\nAs of the 1600s when the \"House of the Abandoned\" was founded, however was soon neglected, and in 1705 a new management took over the house and named it \"Foundling House\" though this too was unsuccessful. The \"House of Charity\" was founded before the revolution, nevertheless, also took its place in the shadows of success because protection of the children and the conditions in which they lived were not guaranteed. In 1959, the Ministry of Social Welfare was created and the houses were not part of the state. Now it was the state that had to provide for the minors. In 1960 the Government assigned the Federation of Cuban Women (FCW) to take charge of these houses, and set them up accordingly; ages 0–3 (homes with cradles), ages 3–6 (pre-scholastic farms), ages 6–12 (scholastic farms), ages 12–18 (youthful farms). This was then refined with The Family Code of 1975 (giving certain rights/obligations to parents), the Code of the Childhood and the Youth, approved in 1978, and the Decree Law 76 of January 1984 (which created a national network of centers that took care of minors without shelter). This new law centered on children up to the age of 5 with daycare, helped with homes for minors ages 6–17, and also helped children who were in school past the age of 17.\nThis gave rise for adoption. The Family Code of 1975 made adoption legal for the protection of minors who were without families. \"There were a few stipulations with this, i.e. the adopters had to be 25 years or older, economically stable, morally sound, and be able to conduct their selves as sound parents.\" Complete adoption is most prominent in Cuba. Complete adoption consists of severing all ties with the adoptees biological parents and that in the adopted family and the child has all the same rights as an actual 'biological' child of that family. Legally adopted children are looked upon as biological children.\n\nThe Castro government claims to have improved women's rights since the revolution, and today, most women work outside of the home. They are assisted by things such as childcare facilities, which are common in Cuba. In 1974, the Family Code was passed, giving men and women equal rights and responsibilities for housework, childrearing and education. However, despite government policy, and as with much of Latin America, \"machismo\" is common, and stereotypes of women continue to exist.\n\nIn the Special Period of Cuba, the time after the Soviet Union collapsed and was no longer able to support Cuba financially, leading the small communist nation to seek more tourism. As tourism increased, there followed an increase in prostitution in Cuba.\n\nA dance style recently emerged, which involves fast and suggestive shaking of the women's lower torso section, simulating sexual activity. With this type of dance, the woman's body is seen as more \"solo\", with moves such as the (all-over-the-place) and (shake-shudder) and the (waist auction). This idea has offended other women, who see this kind of inappropriate, as degrading, forcing them to live up to expectations of pleasing their male partners.\n\nFairley says people in Cuba used to dance by facing their partners, and that nowadays it is often a \"back to front\" dance. She states that the way women dances with reggaeton can be compared with sex position and pornography, and claims that Cuba has \"open and healthy attitudes toward sexuality\".\n\nCuban literature began to develop its own style in the early 19th century. The major works published in Cuba during that time dealt with issues of colonialism, slavery and the mixing of races in a creole society. Notable writers of this genre include Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda, and Cirilo Villaverde, whose novel \"Cecilia Valdés\" was a landmark. Following the abolition of slavery in 1886, the focus of Cuban literature shifted to themes of independence and freedom as exemplified by José Martí, who led the modernista movement in Latin American literature. The poet Nicolás Guillén's famous \"Motivos del son\" focused on the interplay between races. Others like Dulce María Loynaz, José Lezama Lima and Alejo Carpentier dealt with more personal or universal issues. And a few more, such as Reinaldo Arenas and Guillermo Cabrera Infante, earned international recognition in the postrevolutionary era.\n\nCuba is the birthplace of the literary genre that is called testimonial literature. In 1970 Cuba's literary forum Casa de las Américas recognized testimonial literature as an official literary genre. Miguel Barnet's literary texts were foundational in launching this new genre. Specifically Barnet's 1966 \"Biografía de un Cimarrón\" (Biography of a Runaway Slave), where he recorded the oral history of former slave Esteban Montejo, is used to place testimonial literature on the literary platform of Casa de las Américas.\n\nSince Casa de las Américas is a government agency responsible for promoting cultural development, the revolutionary government supports this literary addition and finds it aligned with the spirit of the revolution. In this way, testimonial literature serves the revolutionary ideology in providing a voice for the people, specifically a group of people who were underrepresented and formerly oppressed prior to the Cuban Revolution. For the purpose it serves, this literary genre then gets accredited beyond Cuba and becomes a representative genre in other revolutionary countries, where empowering the majority of its people is important.\n\nAccording to the author of testimonial texts, a testimony is significant because it uses a direct source: A person's account of current aspects in Latin American reality. Testimonial literature is then defined within the boundaries of autobiographical accounts, documentary narratives, eyewitness reports, and oral histories that are later transcribed into a literary format.\n\nYears after the 1950s and 1960s, a time of political and social unrest in Cuba, testimonial literature acknowledged personal accounts of historical figures such as that of Ernesto Che Guevara and other rebel leaders. Testimonial literature also acknowledged the diaries and letters of ordinary people, such as Olga Alonso, Daura Olema, Mercedes Santos, Mirta Muñiz, and Sandra Gonzalez, women that participated in the literacy campaign and other voluntary programs after the triumph of the Revolution.\n\nIn 1997 Daisy Rubiera Castillo's testimonial biography of her mother, Maria de los Reyes Castillo Bueno, \"\", was a finalist in Casa de las Américas' literary competition. Described as the first Cuban testimonial narrative that used gender as an analytical tool, it constitutes the closest perspective with direct knowledge of the experience we have of Black Cuban women's lives since the period of slavery.\n\nAnother example of testimonial literature is Juan Francisco Manzano's (1797–1853) \"Autobiography of a Slave\", which is the only known autobiography written by a slave in Cuba. Though self written many years prior to the identification of testimonial literature, Manzano's personal account of his life as a house slave is worthy of mention, as it fits perfectly into the criteria of this genre, providing a voice for the voiceless.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409824", "title": "Dance in mythology and religion", "text": "Dance in mythology and religion\n\nDance is present in mythology and religion globally. Dance has certainly been an important part of ceremony, rituals, celebrations and entertainment since before the birth of the earliest human civilizations. Archeology delivers traces of dance from prehistoric times such as the 5,000-year-old Bhimbetka rock shelters paintings in India and Egyptian tomb paintings depicting dancing figures from c. 3300 BC.\n\nOne of the earliest structured uses of dances may have been in the performance and in the telling of myths. It was also sometimes used to show feelings for one of the opposite gender. It is also linked to the origin of \"love making.\" Before the production of written languages, dance was one of the methods of passing these stories down from generation to generation.\n\nAnother early use of dance may have been as a precursor to ecstatic trance states in healing rituals. Dance is still used for this purpose by many cultures from the Brazilian rainforest to the Kalahari Desert.\n\nAn early manuscript describing dance is the Natya Shastra on which is based the \"modern\" interpretation of classical Indian dance (e.g. Bharathanatyam).\n\nIn a classical Greek song, Apollo, the god of medicine, music and poetry, one of the twelve greater gods and son of the chief god Zeus, was called The Dancer. In a Greek line Zeus himself is represented as dancing. Terpsichore is one of the nine Muses, representing dancing and dramatic chorus. In Sparta, a province of ancient Greece, the law compelled parents to exercise their children in dancing from the age of five years. They were led by grown men, and sang hymns and songs as they danced. \nIn very early times a Greek chorus, consisting of the whole population of the city, would meet in the market-place to offer up thanksgivings to the god of the country. Their jubilees were always attended with hymn-singing and dancing.\n\nThe Torah, the Psalms, and many other scriptures reference dance:\n\nOld Testament\n\nNew Testament\n\nFrom a Hindu point of view, the whole Universe is being brought into existence as the manifestation of the dance of the Supreme Dancer, Nataraja. In the Hindu scriptures, every god has his or her own style (lasya and tandava respectively represent two aspects of dance) we read about 23 celestial beings called Apsarases who dance to please the gods and express the supreme truths in the magic of movement.\n\nThe dance in the Hinduism used to be a part of a sacred temple ritual, especially in South and Eastern India, where the female priestesses devadasi's worshiped different aspects of the Divine through the elaborate language of mime and gestures. Natyashastra is the most ancient and the most elaborate scripture describing every element and aspect of this sacred art-worship.\n\nThe temple dance gradually evolved into what is known today as the South Indian Classical Dance that still preserves many ritualistic elements of Hinduism. Some of the classical Indian dancers are believed to be incarnations of apsaras.\n\nSee Seungmu\n\n\nIn the Protoevangelium of James, it is reported that Mary danced before the Ark of the Covenant in the Temple of Jerusalem at the time of her presentation.\n\nThroughout the history of Christianity, several denominations and independent congregations prohibited social dancing for various reasons; however, dance has always been a part of the social life of many Christians. Christian lyrics are found in the sounds of Ballroom, Country, Rock and Roll, Latin, Night Club, and other dance music. Ballet originated in Italy at weddings.\n\nNumerous examples of traditional dance can be found in modern Roman Catholic communities. The Brazilian dance and martial art of capoeira (particularly capoeira angola) is regularly performed—including between \"capoeiristas\" of different sexes—to lyrics and \"ladinhas\" (litanies) praising God, the saints, and the Virgin. In a similar vein, several genres of dance music in Romani people/Romani culture involve religious themes and lyrics. In the Philippines, the \"Subli\"—a devotional dance of the Catholic Tagalogs in Batangas Province—honours the True Cross. Finally, the celebrations of Carnival and Mardi Gras feature dance.\n\nMany Charismatic and Pentecostal Protestant denomonations practice dance during worship services. Congregants frequently dance during services as an act of worship. Some Charismatics practice prophetic dance, a religious practice in which practitioners believe they are representing what the Lord is doing through their movements. This is often accompanied with banners, ribbons and, instruments. Bethel Church in Redding, California has a school where people who wished to be trained in prophetic dance can go.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22209363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22209363", "title": "EcoCAR", "text": "EcoCAR\n\nEcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge is a three-year competition that builds on the 19-year history of U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) advanced vehicle technology competitions by giving engineering students the chance to design and build advanced vehicles that demonstrate leading-edge automotive technologies, with the goal of minimizing the environmental impact of personal transportation and illustrating pathways to a sustainable transportation future. The DOE has again joined General Motors (GM), the Government of Canada (Transport Canada, Natural Resources Canada), and other sponsors for this new competition series, named the EcoCAR Challenge. Argonne National Laboratory, a DOE research and development facility, will organize and operate the EcoCAR Challenge. Some previous types of advanced vehicle technology competitions include FutureTruck, FutureCar, and Challenge X. These type of competitions are usually supported by one or more of the Big Three American Automobile Manufacturers. \n\nThe DOE announced a Notice of Program Interest for North American colleges and universities with accredited engineering programs to compete for the opportunity to participate in EcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge—a new international collegiate vehicle engineering competition—through a request-for-proposal (RFP) process in 2008.\n\nEcoCAR seeks to advance the level of vehicle technology capable of reducing petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while demonstrating the real-world performance of a range of technology options. Schools interested in receiving an RFP describing in detail the requirements for competing for one of the up to 17 available slots in EcoCAR were invited to express their interest.\n\nThe technologies explored in EcoCAR are identical to those being investigated by the automotive industry to meet the demands of improved energy efficiency and dramatic reductions in Greenhouse gas (GHG)s, as well as to address California zero-emissions vehicle (ZEV) regulations. These technologies include full-function electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and fuel cell hybrid vehicles. The only fuels approved for use in EcoCAR are E10 ethanol, E85 ethanol, B20 biodiesel, compressed gaseous hydrogen, and the energy carrier electricity.\n\nTeams selected will design and integrate advanced-technology powertrains, lightweight materials, and aerodynamic improvements into a production vehicle. Using this approach, EcoCAR will explore pathways for future vehicles while giving the student participants the knowledge and experience they need to rapidly develop critical engineering skills and become the next generation of leaders in the automotive industry.\n\nEcoCAR is based on a real-world integrated vehicle design and development process. Teams of engineers from the selected schools will develop their vehicles following a modified GM Global Vehicle Development Process (GVDP) for each phase of the three-year competition. By the end of the competition, the sponsors expect fully developed vehicles equivalent to prototypes ready for a production decision. While applying proven methods for engineering successful prototype vehicles, students will learn real-world engineering skills that will make them highly effective in the automotive industry. At the conclusion of each of EcoCAR’s three years, a week-long competition involving all of the participating schools will take place at a GM vehicle proving ground or other appropriate location in North America.\n\nTeams will receive $10,000 in seed money in Year One, a wide range of powertrain components, a vehicle donated by GM, and technical and mentoring support from the competition sponsors. EcoCAR teams will also have a GM mentor knowledgeable in technologies relevant to the team assigned to assist them during the competition. Substantial funds will also be provided to each university to support a full-time graduate student who will provide the team with leadership and continuity over the three-year program.\n\nSchools will be required to match cash seed money donations from EcoCAR sponsors and to provide class credit for students participating in the competition, release time equal to at least one class per semester for a faculty advisor from the engineering school, and logistical and promotional support for their team. Teams may also be asked to match seed money each year to support a full-time, graduate-level engineering team leader. A signed letter of support will be required from the Dean of the Engineering Department with each proposal. If accepted into EcoCAR, each school will be required to sign an annual Good Faith Agreement reaffirming the school's full support of their team and explicitly stating its willingness to participate in all EcoCAR activities with at least one faculty advisor in attendance.\n\nAs part of the competition, EcoCAR teams are required to participate in different types of outreach events. These events include things such as press releases, community outreach, K-12 education, etc. Each team is asked to reach out to their communities and get them interested in EcoCAR.\n\nIn Year One (2009), teams use modeling and simulation to develop their vehicle architecture. \n\nYear One final results \n\nIn Year Two (2010), designs are turned into functioning prototype vehicles. \n\nYear Two final results \n\nIn the Final Third Year (2011), Vehicles are refined to “Near Showroom Quality”. \n\nYear Three final results\nYear Three was the final year of the EcoCAR: The NeXt Challenge competition, succeeded by EcoCAR 2, and EcoCAR 3 \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14827315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14827315", "title": "Editora Globo", "text": "Editora Globo\n\nEditora Globo S.A. (Globo Editors) is a Brazilian publishing house, property of Fundação Roberto Marinho. It began as a bookstore called Livraria do Globo, created in Porto Alegre, in December 1883, by Laudelino Pinheiro de Barcellos and Saturnino Alves Pinto.\n\nThe bookstore \"Livraria do Globo\" begun as in a little store located at \"Rua da Praia\" Number 268. The bookstore was open daily from 6:30 am to 10:00 pm, including Saturdays. With a little business success, the bookstore started working as a copy and paperwork center, making bookbidings and other small services and the building where it was located underwent a slight remodeling.\n\nIts first branch store was created in Santa Maria, near the old ferryway center of Rio Grande do Sul. The \"Livraria do Globo's\" owners decided to create an own magazine, called \"Revista do Globo\".\n\nIn the 1940s, the bookstore company reached its top success, with three branch stores in Brazil's South Region and offices in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. In 1986, the bookstore was sold to Rio Gráfica Editora, property of Fundação Roberto Marinho, that decided to rename its publishing house to Editora Globo, which continues as the current name.\n\nThese are the main titles published by Editora Globo (books are not included because there are innumerous titles published on many different subjects):\nHave been published 1002 books and 69 collections.\n\n"}
{"id": "753416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753416", "title": "Elements of music", "text": "Elements of music\n\nMusic can be analysed by considering a variety of its elements, or parts (aspects, characteristics, features), individually or together. A commonly used list of the main elements includes pitch, timbre, texture, volume, duration and form. The elements of music may be compared to the elements of art or design.\n\nAccording to Howard , there is little dispute about the principal constituent elements of music, though experts differ on their precise definitions. Harold Owen bases his list on the qualities of sound: pitch, timbre, intensity, and duration . Most definitions of music include a reference to sound (; ; ; ) and sound perception can be divided into six cognitive processes. They are: pitch, duration, loudness, timbre, sonic texture and spatial location ().\n\nA parameter is any element that can be manipulated (composed) separately from other elements or focused on separately in an educational context. Leonard B. Meyer compares distinguishing parameters within a culture by their different constraints to distinguishing independent parameters within music, such as melody, harmony, timbre, \"etc.\" . The first person to apply the term \"parameter\" to music may have been Joseph Schillinger, though its relative popularity may be due to Werner Meyer-Eppler . \"Gradation\" is gradual change within one parameter, or an overlapping of two blocks of sound.\n\nMeyer gives melody, rhythm, timbre, harmony, \"and the like\" , while Narmour lists, melody, harmony, rhythm, dynamics, tessitura, timbre, tempo, meter, texture, \"and perhaps others\" . According to McClellan, two things should be considered, the quality or state of an element and its change over time . Alan P. proposed a theoretical research model that assumes three aspects are always present in musical activity: concept, behaviour, and sound. Virgil lists the \"raw materials\" of music in order of their supposed discovery: rhythm, melody, and harmony; including counterpoint and orchestration. Near the end of the twentieth century music scholarship began to give more attention to social and physical elements of music . For example: performance, social, gender, dance, and theater.\n\nDoes the definition of music determine its aspects, or does the combination of certain aspects determine the definition of music? For example, intensional definitions list aspects or elements that make up their subject.\n\nSome definitions refer to music as a score, or a composition (; ; ): music can be read as well as heard, and a piece of music written but never played is a piece of music notwithstanding. The process of reading music, at least for trained musicians, involves a process, called \"inner hearing\" or \"audiation\" by Gordon, where the music is heard in the mind as if it were being played . This suggests that while sound is often considered a required aspect of music, it may not be.\n\nJean points out that \"any element belonging to the total musical fact can be isolated, or taken as a strategic variable of musical production.\" Nattiez gives as examples Mauricio Kagel's \"Con Voce\" [with voice], where a masked trio silently mimes playing instruments. In this example sound, a common element, is excluded, while gesture, a less common element, is given primacy. However Nattiez goes on to say that despite special cases where sound is not immediately obvious (because it is heard in the mind): \"sound is a minimal condition of the musical fact\" .\n\nThere is disagreement about whether some aspects of music are universal, as well as whether the concept of music is universal. This debate often hinges on definitions. For instance, the fairly common assertion that \"tonality\" is a universal of all music may necessarily require an expansive definition of tonality. A pulse is sometimes taken as a universal, yet there exist solo vocal and instrumental genres with free and improvisational rhythms no regular pulse , one example being the alap section of an Indian classical music performance. Harwood questions whether a \"cross-cultural musical universal\" may be found in the music or in the making of music, including performance, hearing, conception, and education .\n\nOne aspect that is important to bear in mind when examining multi-cultural associations, is that an English-language word (i.e. the word \"music\"), not a universal concept, is the object of scrutiny. For this reason it is important to approach apparently equivalent words in other languages with caution. Based on the many disparate definitions that can be found just in English language dictionaries (; ; ; ), it seems there is no agreement on what the word \"Music\" means in English, let alone determining a potentially equivalent word from another culture.\n\nKenneth Gourlay describes how, since different cultures include different elements in their definitions of music, dance, and related concepts, translation of the words for these activities may split or combine them, citing Nigerian musicologist Chinyere Nwachukwu's definition of the Igbo term \"nkwa\" as an activity combining and/or requiring singing, playing musical instruments, and dancing . He then concludes that there exists \"nonuniversality of music and the universality of nonmusic.\"\n\nOther terms used to discuss particular pieces include:\n\nFor a more comprehensive list of terms see: List of musical topics\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5008300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5008300", "title": "Emblem of Laos", "text": "Emblem of Laos\n\nThe National Emblem of the Lao People's Democratic Republic shows the national shrine Pha That Luang. A dam is pictured which as a symbol of power generation at the reservoir Nam Ngum, an asphalt street is also pictured, as well as a stylized watered field. \n\nIn the lower part is a section of a gear wheel. The inscription on the left reads \"Peace, Independence, Democracy\" (lao script: ສັນຕິພາບ ເອກະລາດ ປະຊາທິປະໄຕ) and on the right, \"Unity and Prosperity\" (lao script: ເອກະພາບ ວັດຖະນາຖາວອນ.)\n\nThe coat of arms was modified in August 1991 in relation to the fall of the Soviet Union. The Communist red star and hammer and sickle were replaced with the national shrine at Pha That Luang. The coat of arms is specified in the Laotian constitution:\n"}
{"id": "1216583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216583", "title": "Farewell speech", "text": "Farewell speech\n\nA farewell speech or farewell address is a speech given by an individual leaving a position or place. They are often used by public figures such as politicians as a to the preceding career, or as statements delivered by persons relating to reasons for their leaving. The term is often used as a euphemism for \"retirement speech\", though it is broader in that it may include geographical or even biological conclusion. In the Classics, a term for a dignified and poetic farewell speech is \"apobaterion\" (ἀποβατήριον), standing opposed to the \"epibaterion\", the corresponding speech made upon arrival.\n\nMany U.S. presidential speeches have been given the moniker \"farewell address\" since George Washington's address in 1796. Some notable examples:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "15950438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15950438", "title": "Friar Rush", "text": "Friar Rush\n\nFriar Rush (', ', \"\") is the title of a medieval Low German legend, surviving in a 1488 edition in verse form. During the 16th and 17th centuries, numerous High German, Scandinavian (Danish and Swedish), Dutch and English translations and adaptations in \"Volksbuch\" or chap book form were printed. The first High German edition dates to 1515, printed in Strassburg.\nThe story along with those of Till Eulenspiegel, Faust and Marcolf was among the most successful popular literature in 16th-century Germany.\nThe various adaptations vary in their style and focus, some intending to set a moral example or criticize excesses in monastic life, others simply intending to amuse the reader.\n\nA connection between Friar Rush and Hödekin, a kobold figure of German folklore, was suggested by the Shakespeare scholar George Lyman Kittredge, who noted the connection has been made in Reginald Scott's \"Discoverie of Witchcraft\", 1584. Kittredge (1900) criticizes the then-common identification of Friar Rush with Robin Goodfellow as simplistic.\n\nIn the narrative, the devil enters a monastery posing as a man called \"Bruder Rausch\" (\"Broder Ruus\" and variants, in the English version \"Frier Rush\"; the Early Modern German ', ' is the term for a loud swooshing noise). Acting as a prankster, Friar Rush causes various episodes of commotion among the monks. Working in the kitchen, Friar Rush takes to organizing women for the abbot and the other monks every night. On one occasion, he is about to be chastised by the cook for being delayed. Rush throws the cook into a boiling cauldron and takes his place, working to the satisfaction of the monks for seven years, but constantly causing strife among them. Rush's demonic identity is finally discovered by the abbot, who expels him from the monastery by means of the sacred mass. In the High German version, Rush then travels to England and possesses the king's daughter. He is again exorcized after the abbot is called in from Saxony for the purpose, who banishes the demon inside a hill near the monastery.\n\nFriar Rush appears in Elizabethan playwright Thomas Dekker's \"If This Be Not a Good Play the Devill is in It.\"\n\nNineteenth-century German writer Wilhelm Hertz published a novel \"Bruder Rausch\" in 1882 based on the story.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24149237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24149237", "title": "GRE Psychology Test", "text": "GRE Psychology Test\n\nThe GRE Psychology subject test is a standardized test used in admission decisions by some graduate programs in psychology in several English-speaking countries, especially in the United States.\n\nThere are three major components to this test: (1) Experimental, (2) Social, and (3) Other areas. \nThe score ranges from 200 to 880, although 90% of test-takers score between 440 and 760, with 50th percentile around 615. The average score on Psychology subject test is 577 at Master's level and 633 at Doctoral level.\n\nTest Item Development\n\nThe questions used for the GRE Psychology Test are written by a committee of six faculty members (many who did not know how the test was designed until they were asked to join the committee) from various colleges and universities throughout the United States. Each member writes 15-20 test items each year, as well as, many other faculty members write and submit additional items. These items are then discussed by the committee over a three-day session. During this time, the members accept, reword, or reject the submitted items from the various faculty members. After the draft of questions are assembled, the test is then given to a GRE Sensitivity Committee to screen for items that may not “represent ethnic minorities, women, people with disabilities, and other groups in a favorable light and that the items are not likely to offend anyone” (Kalat & Matlin, 2000, p. 25). Items are not put on the test as “experimental items” that will not be scored. However, point-biserial correlations and percentage of students who answered each item correctly are examined after each administration of the test.\n\nSome graduate programs do not require submission of Psychology subject test scores, whereas in other programs it is recommended or mandatory. Among those universities that do require Psychology subject test, the minimal requirements may also vary. For example, applicants for the Ph.D. program in Clinical Psychology at Hofstra University are required to have a Psychology subject score not lower than 65th percentile (about 660 points)\n\nBased on data collected from 1986 to 1990, correlations were conducted between first-year graduate school GPAs and undergraduate GPA, as well as, various different GRE tests and subtests. The GRE Psychology Test shows to correlate better with first-year graduate school GPAs than does the GRE General Test (\"r\" = .33); the GRE Psychology Test correlates equivocally with undergraduate GPA correlations (both equal \"r\" = .37). However, it is also stated that a GRE subject test correlates with degree attainment only \"r\" = .21. While it has strong correlations when comparing to some facets of graduate school, overall it does not predict who will graduate and who will not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56374226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56374226", "title": "Hayati Fashion Week", "text": "Hayati Fashion Week\n\nHayati Fashion Week (HFW) is an annual series of events when modest fashion collections from Nigeria and other African countries are shown to the press and general public. HFW was founded by Fatima Togbe in 2017.\n\nThe inaugural event took place in 2017 and was sponsored by the Medicaid Cancer Foundation (MCF). Other sponsors include Dunes Center, Pandora, Nestle brand Maggi, Vlisco and Arith & Paul.\n\nHayati Fashion Week was created as a response to the lack of representation of modest fashion on major Nigerian fashion platforms. It has provided designers, models, artists and other businesses who cater to the Nigerian modest industry, a platform to showcase their creativity, passion, and work, directly to their desired audience. The event features Runway shows, exhibitions, and a networking soiree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46675480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46675480", "title": "Hive Propolis", "text": "Hive Propolis\n\nhive | Propolis is a science fiction and dystopian novel by Daniel D.W. and the first volume of The Hive Transmedia Project. The book was published by Mythos Media and HiveTech Media on May 10, 2015. The book contains decipherable easter eggs as well as scannable QR codes for music, animation, videos and a transmedia storyline.\n\nIn the year 2023, Millions connect to Hive (human interface for virtual evolution), an augmented-reality technology that consolidates an individual's devices and technology into a holographic visual display that is projected from their mind. The system creates a collective consciousness with its users and their communication is transferred through a virtual telepathy. Meanwhile, The Disconnected are left in its wake; forced to adapt to a primitive lifestyle in the outskirts of Hive cities. Conflict is inevitable, however the reality behind Hive may be even stranger than anyone realized. \nPropolis follows nine-year-old Samantha Plessis, as she witnesses her family opt into beta testing this new product to receive health insurance benefits to treat her immune disorder. Since her disease prevents her from connecting to Hive, she becomes gradually alienated by her family, whose method of communication is now changing. Her mother, father and sister attitudes and moods change from her perspective; becoming less patient with her, and doing things out of the ordinary. Their consequential negligence and alienation lead to choices that threaten her safety, and for two years she compares her family to empty cicada chassis'. During an update for the beta-testers to the full version on Hive Day in 2025, Samantha watches her family and a number of people in her town collapse at once to their death. She then is adopted by her grandfather and moves to his farm, where he informs her of his predictions of an upcoming war.\n\nMeanwhile, HiveTech CEO Miles Parker, struggles for control of his company with his father, Dr. Lewis Dean Parker. Dr. Parker lives omnipresently on the Hive servers, as a digital copy of his human consciousness after he was cryogenically frozen pre-mortem in 2015. After Miles becomes distraught over the millions dying from the update, Dr. Parker uploads a sedative called \"propolis\" into his system. Miles then becomes complacent and Dr. Parker reveals that Hive in the future will become \"the agency of the world.\"\n\n\n\"Geekadelphia\" said, \"If you're looking for 21st century science fiction that escapes the page itself, this is it. Be excited.\" and \"(Do you) feel like print science fiction could use a kick in the pants to propel it into modernity? Local author Daniel Dw may have just published the novel you're looking for.\" \n\"Rep Radio\" called Propolis, \"Beautifully written and incredibly unique with its incorporation of multi-media. A game-changer for all future literature.\" \n\n\"hive | Propolis,\" includes a new and unique twist with dynamic scannable QR codes embedded within the book itself. This provides story-enhancing soundtrack, video and animation, and interactive story clues that invite a reader to take part in a real-world transmedia rabbit hole. This transmedia twist creates an ever-changing and evolving medium, sending you clues to real-world places and events announced through social media accounts that the reader must discover from the story itself.\n\nUsing the book, a reader can decipher clues to the transmedia timelines and external sources for a simulated reality story.\n\n"}
{"id": "5540375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5540375", "title": "ISO 639:j", "text": "ISO 639:j\n\n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n!() \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n! \n"}
{"id": "32606735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32606735", "title": "Information Center for Israeli Art", "text": "Information Center for Israeli Art\n\nThe \" Information Center for Israeli Art \" is the largest collection of primary resources documenting the history of the Israeli art in Israel. Over 12,000 artists files are housed in the Center in the Israel Museum, Jerusalem.\n\nAs a research center within the Israel Museum, the Information Center for Israeli Art houses materials related to a broad variety of Israeli visual art and artists. All regions of the country and numerous eras and art movements are represented. In addition to the papers of artists, the Center collects documentary material from art galleries, art dealers, and art collectors. It also houses a collection of over 700 Israeli art-related videos and publishes a selection of over 5,800 Israeli artist biographies online.\n\nThe Information Center reopened in June 2011, after extensive museum renovations. The Center offers its visitors a wealth of material collected since 1975, now easily accessible through the computerized information system. Center visitors from all around the world can enjoy services providing them with digital information by email.\n\nThe Information Center for Israeli Art documents and catalogs information about Israeli artists and their work from the very beginning of Israeli art till today. The center encompasses over 12,800 artists – painters, sculptors, photographers, graphic designers, industrial designers, ceramicists, silversmiths and more. The material in the Center is collected into artist files, for prominent and well-known artists as well as those who have not been widely exhibited. The database and artist files include biographical information, newspaper clippings and articles regarding art shows in Israel and abroad, invitations to exhibitions, films, slides, catalogs and photographs or artwork.\n\nThe Information Center for Israeli Art contains important and unique collections from many galleries and artists. One example of this is the Debel Gallery Archives. The Debel Gallery was established in 1973 in Jerusalem. Since January 2007 the Debel Gallery Archive is housed within the Information Center for Israeli Art at the Israel Museum, Jerusalem. It includes background material, exhibition histories, photos of invitations from 1973 to 1990, recordings of interviews with artists, correspondence with artists, and much more.\nAn additional collection of rich visual material documenting Israeli art is the Israel Zafrir Photographer Archive, containing over 10,000 photographs of Israeli artwork and artists. The Gabriel Talphir Archive consists of letters and photographs sent by artists to the well known art critic and author. The Nahum Zolotov Archive, also found in the Center, contains sketches and notations from the renowned Israeli architect. The Frank E. van Raalte Film Archive contains over 100 films interviewing Israeli artists. The Bat Sheva and Archive contains personal writings and letters of artists including Sionah Tagger, Israel Paldi and Arieh Lubin. The Artifact Gallery Archive contains exhibitions and artists files including Nahum Tevet, Philip Rantzer and Diti Almog. In addition, the Max (Mordechai) Farbmann and the Jakob Eisenscher Archives include photographs, letters and newspaper articles about these Israeli artists.\n\nAs of January 2010, new information received by the Information Center for Israeli Art is filed digitally. In 2011, the Center database had been enriched with over 25,000 newspaper articles, and the number of exhibitions documented in the Center surpassed 15,000. The Center website offers bilingual information on 5800 selected Israeli artists and includes a short biography, thousands of Israeli works of art from the Israel Museum collection and other art collections from around the world as well as a comprehensive list of exhibitions for each artist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41752896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41752896", "title": "Insidious (film series)", "text": "Insidious (film series)\n\nInsidious is a series of American horror films created by Leigh Whannell. There are four films in the franchise – \"Insidious\" (2010), \"\" (2013), \"\" (2015) and \"\" (2018) – which have grossed a total of $539 million worldwide on a combined budget of $26.5 million.\n\nThe first two films were directed by James Wan, while the third film was directed by Leigh Whannell, who also served as the screenwriter for all four films. Adam Robitel directed the fourth installment. FilmDistrict released the first and second films, while Focus Features and Universal Pictures handled the third and fourth, respectively.\n\nThe first two films center on a couple who, after their son mysteriously enters a comatose state and becomes a vessel for ghosts in an astral plane, are continuously haunted by demons of a hellish realm known as \"the Further\" until they take from the family what they want most: life. The third film, a prequel, focuses on the same psychic who helped the family; this time she comes to the aid of a young girl who calls out to the dead, and the fourth follows her when her own family becomes haunted. All plots are depicted as case files of demonologists.\n\nInsidious was directed by James Wan, written by Leigh Whannell, and starred Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne and Barbara Hershey. The story centers on a couple whose son inexplicably enters a comatose state and becomes a vessel for ghosts in an astral dimension. The film was released in theaters on April 1, 2011, and is FilmDistrict's first theatrical release. A sequel, \"\", was released on September 13, 2013, with Wan returning as director and Whannell returning as screenwriter. The film's success led to it being used as inspiration for a maze in 2013's annual Halloween Horror Nights.\n\nInsidious: Chapter 2 was also directed by James Wan. The film stars Patrick Wilson and Rose Byrne reprising their roles as Josh and Renai Lambert, a husband and wife who seek to uncover the secret that has left them dangerously connected to the spirit world. The film was released on September 13, 2013. It was a box-office success, grossing over $160 million worldwide, but received mixed reviews.\n\nInsidious: Chapter 3 is the third film in the series, written and directed by Leigh Whannell. The film is a prequel to the haunting of the Lambert family in the first two films, and stars Stefanie Scott. Dermot Mulroney, Lin Shaye, and Whannell. It's about a girl—Quinn—who is haunted by a demon after trying to call out to her mother Lillith, who died. It was released on June 5, 2015.\n\nPrior to the release of \"Insidious: Chapter 3\", Leigh Whannell was asked, \"If there is a \"Insidious: Chapter 4\", would that be a sequel to \"Chapter 3\", another prequel to the original or will it continue in this timeline or go to a whole new timeline?\" Whannell replied, \"I don't know. I haven't really thought about it yet. But for the purposes of this interview, I'll say that I'd like to explore the time between this film and the first film. That whole area there where Elise has rediscovered her gift, I think you could have a lot of adventures before she arrives. So I think there is a lot of room there. We've kind of established Lin [Shaye] in this particular film as kind of this superhero, so that would be kind of interesting to explore in the other films.\" It was announced on May 16, 2016, that \"Chapter 4\" will have an October 20, 2017, release date with Whannell writing, Jason Blum, Oren Peli and James Wan producing, Adam Robitel directing, and Lin Shaye returning to reprise her role as Elise Rainier. On October 11, 2016, the film was given a new release date for 2018, and pushed it back to January 5, 2018.\n\nIn an interview, Whannell stated that if there is going to be a sequel, he currently doesn't know if he will be the one writing the script. On February 22, 2018, reports came stating that the fifth installment is in development after the box office success of \"Insidious: The Last Key\".\n\nKey\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6070674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070674", "title": "Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children", "text": "Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children\n\nThe Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children (KABC) is a clinical instrument (psychological diagnostic test) for assessing cognitive development. Its construction incorporates several recent developments in both psychological theory and statistical methodology. The test was developed by Alan S. Kaufman and Nadeen L. Kaufman in 1983 and revised in 2004. The test has been translated and adopted for many countries, such as the Japanese version of the K-ABC by the Japanese psychologists Tatsuya Matsubara, Kazuhiro Fujita, Hisao Maekawa, and Toshinori Ishikuma.\n\nThe KABC also gives special attention to certain emerging testing needs, such as use with handicapped groups, application to problems of learning disabilities, and appropriateness for cultural and linguistic minorities. The authors rightly caution, however, that success in meeting these special needs must be judged through practical use over time. They also point out that the KABC should not be regarded as \"the complete test battery\"; like any other test, it should be supplemented and corroborated by other instruments to meet individual needs, such as the Stanford-Binet, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, McCarthy scales, or neuropsychological tests.\n\nThe original KABC was developed from neuropsychological theory, merging left brain-right brain research on cerebral specialisation (e.g., Sperry, 1968) with Luria’s sequential simultaneous processing dichotomy (Luria, 1966) and work in cognitive psychology. The KABC focuses on the processes needed to solve problems rather than their content i.e. verbal vs. non verbal. The KABC was one of the first intelligence tests to be principally derived from strong theoretical basis and the first intelligence test to be based in neuropsychological theory (Reynolds & Kamphaus, 1997). An important feature of the KABC is that it yielded smaller than average score differences than was typical between African American and European American ethnic groups, making it particularly useful when assessing children of difference ethnicities.\n\nThe second edition (KABC-II) which was published in 2004, is an individually administered measure of the processing and cognitive abilities of children and adolescents aged 3–18. As with the original KABC, the KABC-II is a theory-based instrument. However the KABC-II differs in its conceptual framework and test structure. While the KABC is grounded in simultaneous/sequential processing approach the KABC-II incorporates two distinct theoretical models. The KABC-II is grounded in a dual theoretical foundation: the Cattell-Horn-Carroll (CHC) psychometric model of broad and narrow abilities and Luria’s neuropsychological theory of processing.\n\nThere are a number of important revisions in the KABC-II:\n\n\nWith the KABC-II, the examiner can choose which theoretical model to follow. Typically the Cattell-Horn-Carroll model is useful for children from a mainstream cultural and language background. Or if Crystallized Ability would not be a fair indicator of the child’s cognitive ability, examiners may choose the Luria model which excludes verbal ability.\n\nThe KABC-II has 18 subtests of two types: core and supplementary. Before testing the examiner decides which model to follow: Luria or CHC. The subtests are grouped into 4 or 5 scales depended on the age and interpretive model chosen. Luria’s model consists of four scales: Sequential Processing Scale, Simultaneous processing Scale, Learning Ability and Planning Ability. CHC model renames these: Short Term Memory (Gsm), Visual Processing (Gv), Long Term Storage and Retrieval (Glr) and Fluid Reasoning (Gf) plus an additional 5th scale Crystallised Ability (Gc).\n\nKABC-II scales and their subtests include:\n\nSimultaneous/Gv\n\n\nSequential/Gsm\n\n\nPlanning/Gf\n\n\nLearning/Glr\n\n\nKnowledge(Gc) included in the CHC model only\n\n\nKABC-II yields two general intelligence composite scores: Mental Processing Index (MPI; Luria’s model) and Fluid-Crystallised Index (FCI; CHC model). The Luria model takes 25–60 minutes to administer while the CHC model takes 30–75 minutes to administer depending on the child’s age.\n\nThe KABC-II was standardised between 2001 and 2003 on 3,025 3- to 18-year-olds in 39 states and the District of Columbia. The KABC-II is co normed with the KTEA-II (Kaufman & Kaufman, 2004b). Correlation studies have been completed with: KABC, WISC, WISC-III, WPPSI-III, KAIT, WJ-III COG, PIAT-R, WJ-III ACH and WIAT-II. Special group studies (clinical validity studies) included: those with Emotional Disturbances, ADHD, Autistic Disorder, Intellectual disability, Learning Disability (Written expression, Mathematics and Reading) and those classed as Gifted.\n\nThe internal consistency reliability coefficient for core and supplementary subtests demonstrate the KABC-II has good reliability. The median reliability for the 3-6 age band is .85 (range .69-.92) and .87 (range .74-.93) for 7-18. Retest reliabilities of the global scales ranged from 0.72 to 0.94 where retest stability increasing with age.\n\nThe KABC-II helps to identify an individual’s strengths and weaknesses in cognitive ability and mental processing. The information proved by the KABC-II can facilitate clinical and educational planning, treatment planning and placement decisions. As with most psychological assessments the utility can be improved when combined with other tools.\n\nThe approach to understanding intelligence with the most supported and published research over the longest period of time is based on psychometric testing. It is also by far the most widely used in practical settings. Intelligence quotient (IQ) tests include the Stanford-Binet, Raven's Progressive Matrices, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and the Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children. There are also psychometric tests that are not intended to measure intelligence itself but some closely related construct such as scholastic aptitude. In the United States examples include the SSAT, the SAT, the ACT, the GRE, the MCAT, the LSAT, and the GMAT.[1]\nIntelligence tests are widely used in educational,[18] business, and military settings because of their efficacy in predicting behavior. IQ and g (discussed in the next section) are correlated with many important social outcomes—individuals with low IQs are more likely to be divorced, have a child out of marriage, be incarcerated, and need long-term welfare support, while individuals with high IQs are associated with more years of education, higher status jobs and higher income.[19] Intelligence is significantly correlated with successful training and performance outcomes, and IQ/g is the single best predictor of successful job performance.[1][20]\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67408", "title": "Maamme", "text": "Maamme\n\n\"Maamme\" () or \"Vårt land\" (; both meaning \"Our Land\") is Finland's national anthem. The music was composed by the German immigrant Fredrik Pacius, with (original Swedish) words by Johan Ludvig Runeberg, and with this music it was performed for the first time on 13 May 1848. Originally it was written for the 500th anniversary of Porvoo and for that occasion it was Runeberg himself who wrote the music. The poem has been influenced by the \"Szózat\" (Appeal) of Mihály Vörösmarty,\nboth in style and content.\n\nThe melody of \"Maamme\" is also used for the national anthem of Estonia with a similarly themed text, \"Mu isamaa, mu õnn ja rõõm\" (\"My Fatherland, My Happiness and Joy\", 1869). It is also considered to be the ethnic anthem for the Livonians as \"Min izāmō\" (\"My Fatherland\").\n\nThe original poem, written in 1846 but not printed until 1848, had 11 stanzas and formed the prologue to the verse cycle \"The Tales of Ensign Stål\" (\"Fänrik Ståhls Sägner\"), a classic example of Romantic nationalism. The current Finnish language text is usually attributed to the 1889 translation of \"Ensign Stål\" by Paavo Cajander, but in fact originates from the 1867 translation by Julius Krohn.\n\n\"The Tales of Ensign Stål\" were much appreciated throughout all of Scandinavia. Up until the time of Finland's independence in 1917–18, when the song began to be recognized as specifically applying to Finland, Pacius's tune and Runeberg's text were often also sung in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Note that in the original Swedish text there is no reference to Finland (except for in verses 4 and 10, which are rarely sung), only to a country in the north, but the Finnish text explicitly refers to Finland. The poem's theme is, furthermore, remarkably similar to that of the national anthems of Sweden (Du gamla, Du fria) and Norway (Ja, vi elsker dette landet).\n\nThere is no law regarding an official national anthem in Finland, in the way the Coat of arms and flag of Finland are legally defined. Instead its position has been established gradually by convention over the years.\n\nToday, \"Maamme\" is firmly established by convention. Children learn it in school; in formal occasions it is sung both in Finnish and in Swedish. It is played at sporting events, such as the Olympics. In the 1880s and in the 1920s there were more attempts to replace it with a Finnish language version but these ceased by the 1930s. Some Finns have proposed that the Finnish national anthem be changed to \"Finlandia\" by Jean Sibelius, with lyrics by V.A. Koskenniemi (Finnish) and Joel Rundt (Swedish). There are also those who simply prefer \"Finlandia\" as a musical piece, although critics claim that it is difficult to sing.\n\nIt is said that Pacius composed the tune in four days. It was popular throughout the 19th century, but established as national anthem only after Pacius' death.\n\nThe melody of \"Maamme\" has similarities with the German drinking song \"Papst und Sultan\". Many believe that Fredrik Pacius intentionally or unintentionally copied parts of the tune. Another Finnish patriotic song, \"Sotilaspoika\", composed by Pacius, also includes similarities with \"Papst und Sultan\".\n\nThe original lyrics consist of eleven verses but it is customary to sing the first verse and the last verse, unless the people gathered are mixed Finnish and Swedish speaking. In the later case three verses are sung: the first in Finnish, the first in Swedish and the last in Finnish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21161169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21161169", "title": "Manduriano", "text": "Manduriano\n\nManduriano is a dialect of the Sicilian language, spoken by the majority of the inhabitants of Manduria, in southern Apulia; it is a sub-dialect of Salentino.\n"}
{"id": "50334376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50334376", "title": "Mathematical fiction", "text": "Mathematical fiction\n\nMathematical fiction is a genre of creative fictional work in which mathematics and mathematicians play important roles. The form and the medium of the works are not important. The genre may include short stories, novels or plays; comic books; films, videos, or audios. One of the earliest, and much studied, work of this genre is , an 1884 satirical novella by the English schoolmaster Edwin Abbott Abbott. Mathematical fiction may have existed since ancient times, but it was recently rediscovered as a genre of literature; since then there has been a growing body of literature in this genre, and the genre has attracted a growing body of readers. For example, Abbot's Flatland spawned a sequel in the 21st century: a novel titled \"Flatterland\", authored by Ian Stewart and published in 2001.\n\nAlex Kasman, a Professor of Mathematics at College of Charleston, who maintains a database of works that could possibly be included in this genre, has a broader definition for the genre: Any work \"containing mathematics or mathematicians\" has been treated as mathematical fiction. Accordingly, \"Gulliver's Travels\" by Jonathan Swift, \"War and Peace\" by Lev Tolstoy, \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\" by George Bernard Shaw, and several similar literary works appear in Kasman's database because these works contain references to mathematics or mathematicians, even though mathematics and mathematicians are not important in their plots. According to this broader approach, the oldest extant work of mathematical fiction is \"The Birds\", a comedy by the Ancient Greek playwright Aristophanes performed in 414 BCE. Kasman's database has a list of more than one thousand items of diverse categories like literature, comic books and films.\n\nThe top ten results turned up by a search of the website of Mathematical Association of America using the keywords \"mathematical fiction\" contained references to the following works of mathematical fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2509041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2509041", "title": "Mimizuka", "text": "Mimizuka\n\nThe , an alteration of the original is a monument in Kyoto, Japan, dedicated to the sliced noses of killed Korean soldiers and civilians as well as Ming Chinese troops taken as war trophies during the Japanese invasions of Korea from 1592 to 1598. The monument enshrines the severed noses of at least 38,000 Koreans killed during Toyotomi Hideyoshi's invasions.\nThe shrine is located just to the west of Toyokuni Shrine, the Shinto shrine honoring Hideyoshi in Kyoto.\n\nTraditionally, Japanese warriors brought back the heads of enemies slain on the battlefield as proof of their deeds. Nose collection in lieu of heads became a feature of the second Korean invasion. Remuneration was paid to soldiers by their \"daimyō\" commanders based on the severed heads upon submission to collection stations, where inspectors meticulously counted, recorded, salted and packed the noses bound for Japan. However, because of the number of civilians killed along with soldiers, and crowded conditions on the ships that transported troops, it was far easier to just bring back noses instead of whole heads. Hideyoshi was especially insistent upon receiving noses of people his samurai had killed as proof that his men really were killing people in Korea.\n\nJapanese chroniclers on the second invading campaign mention that the ears hacked off the faces of the massacred were also of ordinary civilians mostly in the provinces Gyeongsang, Jeolla, and Chungcheong. In the second invasion Hideyoshi's orders were thus:\n\nOne hundred and sixty-thousand Japanese troops had gone to Korea where they had taken 185,738 Korean heads and 29,014 Chinese ones, a grand total of 214,752. As some might have been discarded, it is improbable to enumerate how many were killed in total during the war. \nThe Mimizuka was dedicated September 28, 1597. Though the exact reasons as to its construction are not entirely known, scholars contend that during the second Japanese invasion of Korea in 1597, Toyotomi Hideyoshi demanded his commanders show receipts of their martial valor in the destruction, dispatching congratulatory letters to his high-ranking warriors in the field as evidence of their service. Hideyoshi then ordered the relics entombed in a shrine on the grounds of Hokoji Temple, and set Buddhist priests to work praying for the repose of the souls of the hundreds of thousands of Koreans from whose bodies they had come; an act that chief priest Saishō Jōtai (1548–1608) in a fit of toadyism would hail as a sign of Hideyoshi's \"great mercy and compassion.\" The shrine initially was known as , Mound of Noses, but several decades later this would come to be regarded as too cruel-sounding a name, and would be changed to the more euphonious but inaccurate , Mound of Ears, the misnomer by which it is known to this day. Other nose tombs dating from the same period are found elsewhere in Japan, such as at Okayama.\n\nThe Mimizuka is almost unknown to the Japanese public unlike to the Koreans. The British historian Stephen Turnbull called the Mimizuka \"...Kyoto's least mentioned and most often avoided tourist attraction\". A plaque, which was later removed, stood in front of the Ear Mound in the 1960s with the passage, \"One cannot say that cutting off noses was so atrocious by the standard of the time.\" Most guidebooks do not mention the Ear Mound, and only a few Japanese or foreign tourists visit the site. The majority of visiting tourists are Korean – Korean tour buses are often seen parked near the Ear Mound.\n\nIn 1982, not a single Japanese school textbook mentioned the Ear Mound. As of 1997, the mound is referred to in about half of all high-school history textbooks according to Shigeo Shimoyama, an official of Jikkyo, a publishing company. The publisher released the first Japanese text book mentioning the Ear Mound in the mid-1980s. The Education Ministry of Japan at that time opposed the description as \"too vivid\" and pressured the publisher to reduce the tone and also to praise Hideyoshi for religiously dedicating the Ear Mound to store the spirits of the killed people.\n\nIn the 1970s under the Park Chung-hee administration, some of the officials of the South Korean government asked Japan to level the monument. However, most Koreans said that the mound should stay in Japan as a reminder of past savagery.\nActivity since the 1990s is aptly conveyed thus:\nOn September 28, 1997, the 400th anniversary of the Mimizuka, a ceremony was held in respect for those killed, which people of all nationalities and faiths attended. The current caretaker of Mimizuka as of August 2009 is Shimizu Shirou (清水四郎).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12550775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12550775", "title": "Mixed-blood", "text": "Mixed-blood\n\nThe term mixed-blood in the United States is most often employed for individuals of mixed European and Native American ancestry. Some of the most prominent in the 19th century were mixed-blood or mixed-race descendants of fur traders and Native American women along the northern frontier. The fur traders tended to be men of social standing, and they often married or had relationships with daughters of Native American chiefs, consolidating social standing on both sides. They formed the upper tier of what was for years in the 18th and 19th centuries a two-tier society at settlements at trading posts, with other Europeans, American Indians and mixed-blood or Métis workers below them. Mixed-blood is also used occasionally in Canadian accounts to refer to the nineteenth century Anglo-Métis population rather than Métis, which referred to people of First Nations and French descent.\n\nSimilarly in the Southeast, the Cherokee and other tribes started having inter-generational marriage and sexual relationships with the Europeans in the early 1700s. Many Cherokee bands and families were quick to see the economic benefits of having trade, land and business dealings with Europeans, strengthened through marriages. Prominent Cherokee and Creek leaders of the 19th century were of mixed-descent but, born to Indian mothers in matrilineal kinship societies, they identified fully and were accepted as Indian and grew up in those cultures.\n\nRenowned persons of mixed-blood ancestry in United States' history are many. One such example is Jean Baptiste Charbonneau, who guided the Mormon Battalion from New Mexico to the city of San Diego in California in 1846, and then accepted an appointment there as \"alcalde\" of Mission San Luis Rey. Both his parents worked with the Lewis and Clark Expedition, his mother \"Sacagawea\" as the invaluable Shoshone guide, and his French-Canadian father Toussaint Charbonneau as an interpreter of Shoshone and Hidatsa, cook and laborer. J.B. Charbonneau is depicted on the United States dollar coin along with his mother \"Sacagawea\".\n\nAnother example is Jane Johnston Schoolcraft, inducted into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame in 2008, in recognition of her literary contributions. She is recognized as the first Native American literary writer and poet, and the first Native American poet to write in an indigenous language. Jane Johnston was the daughter of a wealthy Scots-Irish fur trader and his Ojibwe wife, who was daughter of an Ojibwe chief. Johnston Schoolcraft was born in 1800 and lived most of her life in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, where she grew up in both cultures and learned French, English and Ojibwe. She wrote in English and Ojibwe. She married Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, who became a renowned ethnographer, in part due to her and her family's introduction to Native American culture. A major collection of her writings was published in 2007.\n\nLouise Erdrich is one of the best known contemporary Native American authors, whose fiction deals with the Ojibwe-American heritage of her Minnesota and reservation upbringing. She is of Ojibwe, German-American, and French ancestry. Among her many awards have been a Guggenheim Fellowship and National Book Critics Circle Award (1984), the latter for her early novel \"Love Medicine\". In numerous novels over the last 20 years, she has created a richly imagined fictional universe of Native American and European American small town and reservation life.\n\n\"Mestizo\" is the contemporary term of choice for Hispanic individuals (whether US-born or immigrant) of a similar mixed ancestry (Indigenous and European), but based on different groups. Many Hispanic-Americans who have identified as \"white\" are of Spanish descent, having had ancestors in the southwestern United States for several generations prior to annexation of that region into the United States. However, identification on the US Census has historically been limited by its terminology, and the option to only select one \"race\" in the past. Others have classified themselves as mestizo, particularly those who also identify as Chicano. Hispanics of Puerto Rican and Cuban descent are most numerous on the East Coast, especially in Florida, New York and New England.\n\nThe most recent Hispanic immigrants, who arrived during mid-century until today, have mainly identified as mestizo or Amerindian. They have come from Mexico, Central and South America. Of the over 35 million Hispanics counted in the Federal 2000 Census, the overwhelming majority of the 42.2% who identified as \"some other race\" are believed to be mestizos—a term not included on the US Census but widely used in Latin America. Of the 47.9% of Hispanics who identified as \"White Hispanic\", many acknowledge possessing Amerindian ancestry, as do many European Americans who identify as \"White\". Hispanics identifying as multiracial amounted to 6.3% (2.2 million) of all Hispanics; they likely included many mestizos as well as individuals of mixed Amerindian and African ancestry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40411", "title": "Mnemonic", "text": "Mnemonic\n\nA mnemonic (, the first \"m\" is silent) device, or memory device, is any learning technique that aids information retention or retrieval (remembering) in the human memory. Mnemonics make use of elaborative encoding, retrieval cues, and imagery as specific tools to encode any given information in a way that allows for efficient storage and retrieval. Mnemonics aid original information in becoming associated with something more accessible or meaningful—which, in turn, provides better retention of the information. Commonly encountered mnemonics are often used for lists and in auditory form, such as short poems, acronyms, or memorable phrases, but mnemonics can also be used for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms. Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial, personal, surprising, physical, sexual, humorous, or otherwise \"relatable\" information, rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information.\n\nThe word \"mnemonic\" is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός (\"mnēmonikos\"), meaning \"of memory, or relating to memory\" and is related to Mnemosyne (\"remembrance\"), the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology. Both of these words are derived from μνήμη (\"mnēmē\"), \"remembrance, memory\". Mnemonics in antiquity were most often considered in the context of what is today known as the art of memory.\n\nAncient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types of memory: the \"natural\" memory and the \"artificial\" memory. The former is inborn, and is the one that everyone uses instinctively. The latter in contrast has to be trained and developed through the learning and practice of a variety of mnemonic techniques.\n\nMnemonic systems are techniques or strategies consciously used to improve memory. They help use information already stored in long-term memory to make memorisation an easier task.\n\nThe general name of mnemonics, or \"memoria technica,\" was the name applied to devices for aiding the memory, to enable the mind to reproduce a relatively unfamiliar idea, and especially a series of dissociated ideas, by connecting it, or them, in some artificial whole, the parts of which are mutually suggestive. Mnemonic devices were much cultivated by Greek sophists and philosophers and are frequently referred to by Plato and Aristotle. In later times the poet Simonides was credited for development of these techniques, perhaps for no reason other than that the power of his memory was famous. Cicero, who attaches considerable importance to the art, but more to the principle of order as the best help to memory, speaks of Carneades (perhaps Charmades) of Athens and Metrodorus of Scepsis as distinguished examples of people who used well-ordered images to aid the memory. The Romans valued such helps in order to support facility in public speaking.\n\nThe Greek and the Roman system of mnemonics was founded on the use of mental places and signs or pictures, known as \"topical\" mnemonics. The most usual method was to choose a large house, of which the apartments, walls, windows, statues, furniture, etc., were each associated with certain names, phrases, events or ideas, by means of symbolic pictures. To recall these, an individual had only to search over the apartments of the house until discovering the places where images had been placed by the imagination.\n\nIn accordance with said system, if it were desired to fix a historic date in memory, it was localised in an imaginary town divided into a certain number of districts, each of with ten houses, each house with ten rooms, and each room with a hundred quadrates or memory-places, partly on the floor, partly on the four walls, partly on the roof. Therefore, if it were desired to fix in the memory the date of the invention of printing (1436), an imaginary book, or some other symbol of printing, would be placed in the thirty-sixth quadrate or memory-place of the fourth room of the first house of the historic district of the town. Except that the rules of mnemonics are referred to by Martianus Capella, nothing further is known regarding the practice until the 13th century.\n\nAmong the voluminous writings of Roger Bacon is a tractate \"De arte memorativa\". Ramon Llull devoted special attention to mnemonics in connection with his \"ars generalis.\" The first important modification of the method of the Romans was that invented by the German poet Konrad Celtes, who, in his \"Epitoma in utramque Ciceronis rhetoricam cum arte memorativa nova\" (1492), used letters of the alphabet for associations, rather than places. About the end of the 15th century, Petrus de Ravenna (b. 1448) provoked such astonishment in Italy by his mnemonic feats that he was believed by many to be a necromancer. His \"Phoenix artis memoriae\" (Venice, 1491, 4 vols.) went through as many as nine editions, the seventh being published at Cologne in 1608.\n\nAbout the end of the 16th century, Lambert Schenkel (\"Gazophylacium\", 1610), who taught mnemonics in France, Italy and Germany, similarly surprised people with his memory. He was denounced as a sorcerer by the University of Louvain, but in 1593 he published his tractate \"De memoria\" at Douai with the sanction of that celebrated theological faculty. The most complete account of his system is given in two works by his pupil Martin Sommer, published in Venice in 1619. In 1618 John Willis (d. 1628?) published \"Mnemonica; sive ars reminiscendi\", containing a clear statement of the principles of topical or local mnemonics. Giordano Bruno included a \"memoria technica\" in his treatise \"De umbris idearum,\" as part of his study of the \"ars generalis\" of Llull. Other writers of this period are the Florentine Publicius (1482); Johannes Romberch (1533); Hieronimo Morafiot, \"Ars memoriae\" (1602);and B. Porta, \"Ars reminiscendi\" (1602).\n\nIn 1648 Stanislaus Mink von Wennsshein revealed what he called the \"most fertile secret\" in mnemonics — using consonants for figures, thus expressing numbers by words (vowels being added as required), in order to create associations more readily remembered. The philosopher Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz adopted an alphabet very similar to that of Wennsshein for his scheme of a form of writing common to all languages.\n\nWennsshein's method was adopted with slight changes afterward by the majority of subsequent \"original\" systems. It was modified and supplemented by Richard Grey (1694-1771), a priest who published a \"Memoria technica\" in 1730. The principal part of Grey's method is briefly this:\n\nTo assist in retaining the mnemonical words in the memory, they were formed into memorial lines. Such strange words in difficult hexameter scansion, are by no means easy to memorise. The vowel or consonant, which Grey connected with a particular figure, was chosen arbitrarily.\n\nA later modification was made in 1806 Gregor von Feinaigle, a German monk from Salem near Constance. While living and working in Paris, he expounded a system of mnemonics in which (as in Wennsshein) the numerical figures are represented by letters chosen due to some similarity to the figure or an accidental connection with it. This alphabet was supplemented by a complicated system of localities and signs. Feinaigle, who apparently did not publish any written documentation of this method, travelled to England in 1811. The following year one of his pupils published \"The New Art of Memory\" (1812), giving Feinaigle's system. In addition, it contains valuable historical material about previous systems.\n\nOther mnemonists later published simplified forms, as the more complicated menemonics were generally abandoned. Methods founded chiefly on the so-called laws of association (cf. Mental association) were taught with some success in Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA wide range of mnemonics are used for several purposes. The most commonly used mnemonics are those for lists, numerical sequences, foreign-language acquisition, and medical treatment for patients with memory deficits.\n\nA common mnemonic for remembering lists is to create an easily remembered acronym, or, taking each of the initial letters of the list members, create a memorable phrase in which the words with the same acronym as the material. Mnemonic techniques can be applied to most memorisation of novel materials.\nSome common examples for first letter mnemonics:\n\nMnemonic phrases or poems can be used to encode numeric sequences by various methods, one common one is to create a new phrase in which the number of letters in each word represents the according digit of pi. For example, the first 15 digits of the mathematical constant pi (3.14159265358979) can be encoded as \"Now I need a drink, alcoholic of course, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics\"; \"Now\", having 3 letters, represents the first number, 3. Piphilology is the practice dedicated to creating mnemonics for pi.\n\nAnother is used for \"calculating\" the multiples of 9 up to 9 × 10 using one's fingers. Begin by holding out both hands with all fingers stretched out. Now count left to right the number of fingers that indicates the multiple. For example, to figure 9 × 4, count four fingers from the left, ending at your left-hand index finger. Bend this finger down and count the remaining fingers. Fingers to the left of the bent finger represent tens, fingers to the right are ones. There are three fingers to the left and six to the right, which indicates 9 × 4 = 36. This works for 9 × 1 up through 9 × 10.\n\nFor remembering the rules in adding and multiplying two signed numbers, Balbuena and Buayan (2015) made the letter strategies LAUS (like signs, add; unlike signs, subtract) and LPUN (like signs, positive; unlike signs, negative), respectively.\n\nMnemonics may be helpful in learning foreign languages, for example by transposing difficult foreign words with words in a language the learner knows already, also called \"cognates\" which are very common in the Spanish language. A useful such technique is to find linkwords, words that have the same pronunciation in a known language as the target word, and associate them visually or auditorially with the target word.\n\nFor example, in trying to assist the learner to remember \"ohel\" (אוהל), the Hebrew word for \"tent\", the linguist Ghil'ad Zuckermann proposes the memorable sentence \"\"Oh hell\", there's a raccoon in my \"tent\"\". The memorable sentence \"There's a \"fork\" in \"Ma’s leg\"\" helps the learner remember that the Hebrew word for \"fork\" is \"mazleg\" (מזלג)., Similarly, to remember the Hebrew word \"bayit\" (בית), meaning \"house\", one can use the sentence \"that's a lovely \"house\", I'd like to \"buy it\".\" The linguist Michel Thomas taught students to remember that \"estar\" is the Spanish word for \"to be\" by using the phrase \"to be a star\".\n\nAnother Spanish example is by using the mnemonic \"Vin Diesel Has Ten Weapons\" to teach irregular command verbs in the you form. Spanish verb forms and tenses are regularly seen as the hardest part of learning the language. With a high number of verb tenses, and many verb forms that are not found in English, Spanish verbs can be hard to remember and then conjugate. The use of mnemonics has been proven to help students better learn foreign languages, and this holds true for Spanish verbs. A particularly hard verb tense to remember is command verbs. Command verbs in Spanish are conjugated differently depending on who the command is being given to. The phrase, when pronounced with a Spanish accent, is used to remember \"Ven Di Sal Haz Ten Ve Pon Sé\", all of the irregular Spanish command verbs in the you form. This mnemonic helps students attempting to memorize different verb tenses.\nAnother technique is for learners of gendered languages to associate their mental images of words with a colour that matches the gender in the target language. An example here is to remember the Spanish word for \"foot,\" \"pie,\" [pee-ay] with the image of a foot stepping on a pie, which then spills blue filling (blue representing the male gender of the noun in this example).\n\nFor French verbs which use etre as a participle: DR and MRS VANDERTRAMPP: descendre, rester, monter, revenir, sortir, venir, arriver, naître, devenir, entrer, rentrer, tomber, retourner, aller, mourir, partir, passer.\n\nMasculine countries in French (le): \"Neither can a breeze make a sane Japanese chilly in the USA.\" Netherlands, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Senegal, Japan, Chile & (les) USA.\n\nMnemonics can be used in aiding patients with memory deficits that could be caused by head injuries, strokes, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis and other neurological conditions.\n\nIn a study conducted by Doornhein and De Haan, the patients were treated with six different memory strategies including the mnemonics technique. The results concluded that there were significant improvements on the immediate and delayed subtest of the RBMT, delayed recall on the Appointments test, and relatives rating on the MAC from the patients that received mnemonics treatment. However, in the case of stroke patients, the results did not reach statistical significance.\n\nAcademic study of the use of mnemonics has shown their effectiveness. In one such experiment, subjects of different ages who applied mnemonic techniques to learn novel vocabulary outperformed control groups that applied contextual learning and free-learning styles.\n\nMnemonics vary in effectiveness for several groups ranging from young children to the elderly. Mnemonic learning strategies require time and resources by educators to develop creative and effective devices. The most simple and creative mnemonic devices usually are the most effective for teaching. In the classroom, mnemonic devices must be used at the appropriate time in the instructional sequence to achieve their maximum effectiveness.\n\nMnemonics were seen to be more effective for groups of people who struggled with or had weak long-term memory, like the elderly. Five years after a mnemonic training study, a research team followed-up 112 community-dwelling older adults, 60 years of age and over. Delayed recall of a word list was assessed prior to, and immediately following mnemonic training, and at the 5-year follow-up. Overall, there was no significant difference between word recall prior to training and that exhibited at follow-up. However, pre-training performance gains scores in performance immediately post-training and use of the mnemonic predicted performance at follow-up. Individuals who self-reported using the mnemonic exhibited the highest performance overall, with scores significantly higher than at pre-training. The findings suggest that mnemonic training has long-term benefits for some older adults, particularly those who continue to employ the mnemonic.\n\nThis contrasts with a study from surveys of medical students that approximately only 20% frequently used mnemonic acronyms.\n\nIn humans, the process of aging particularly affects the medial temporal lobe and hippocampus, in which the episodic memory is synthesized. The episodic memory stores information about items, objects, or features with spatiotemporal contexts. Since mnemonics aid better in remembering spatial or physical information rather than more abstract forms, its effect may vary according to a subject's age and how well the subject's medial temporal lobe and hippocampus function.\n\nThis could be further explained by one recent study which indicates a general deficit in the memory for spatial locations in aged adults (mean age 69.7 with standard deviation of 7.4 years) compared to young adults (mean age 21.7 with standard deviation of 4.2 years). At first, the difference in target recognition was not significant.\n\nThe researchers then divided the aged adults into two groups, aged unimpaired and aged impaired, according to a neuropsychological testing. With the aged groups split, there was an apparent deficit in target recognition in aged impaired adults compared to both young adults and aged unimpaired adults. This further supports the varying effectiveness of mnemonics in different age groups.\n\nMoreover, a different research was done previously with the same notion, which presented with similar results to that of Reagh et al. in verbal mnemonics discrimination task.\n\nStudies (notably \"The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two\") have suggested that the short-term memory of adult humans can hold only a limited number of items; grouping items into larger chunks such as in a mnemonic might be part of what permits the retention of a larger total amount of information in short-term memory, which in turn can aid in the creation of long-term memories.\n\n"}
{"id": "22984547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22984547", "title": "Muka", "text": "Muka\n\nMuka is prepared fibre of New Zealand flax (). Prepared primarily by scraping, pounding and washing, it is a key material in Māori traditional textiles where it is usually used in tāniko or twined weaving.\n\nIn pre-European times, muka was widely used by the Māori and was the primary fibre used for weaving clothing. \"Patu muka\" or pounding stones were a distinct tool type.\n\nIn the early colonial period, muka was a trade staple, often being traded for muskets with devastating effects. Well into the European era it was used for paper, clothing and sacking, with large commercial workings Foxton and elsewhere.\n\nSince the Māori renaissance the resurgence in traditional Māori weaving has seen up-swing in the use of muka, especially for art and high-end craft items. Usually woven muka is distinguished from woven (unprepared) flax which is only suitable for coarse work such as bags (kete) and panels.\n"}
{"id": "41458357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41458357", "title": "New Hampshire Troubadour", "text": "New Hampshire Troubadour\n\nThe New Hampshire Troubadour was a monthly magazine supported by the State Planning and Development Commission of New Hampshire which was originally published from 1931-1951. It was subsequently published under several private owners and titles, most prominently as \"New Hampshire Profiles\".\n\nIt was briefly revived under the original name for a few years early in the twenty-first century, as a quarterly magazine published by a 501(c)(3) charitable organization with no paid employees.\n\nThe magazine's first editor was Thomas Dreier.\n\nDuring the \"Troubadour\"'s original run three covers were illustrated by American artist Maxfield Parrish.\n\n"}
{"id": "305659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305659", "title": "Old Frisian", "text": "Old Frisian\n\nOld Frisian is a West Germanic language spoken between the 8th and 16th centuries in the area between the Rhine and Weser on the European North Sea coast. The Frisian settlers on the coast of South Jutland (today's Northern Friesland) also spoke Old Frisian but no medieval texts of this area are known. The language of the earlier inhabitants of the region between the Zuiderzee and Ems River (the Frisians mentioned by Tacitus) is attested in only a few personal names and place-names. Old Frisian evolved into Middle Frisian, spoken from the 16th to the 19th century.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages, Frisia stretched from the area around Bruges, in what is now Belgium, to the Weser River in northern Germany. At the time, the Frisian language was spoken along the entire southern North Sea coast. This region is referred to as Greater Frisia or Frisia Magna, and many of the areas within it still treasure their Frisian heritage. However, by 1300, their territory had been pushed back to the Zuiderzee (now the IJsselmeer), and the Frisian language survives along the coast only as a substrate.\n\nThe people from what are today northern Germany and Denmark who settled in England from about 400 onwards came from the same regions and spoke more or less the same language as the people who lived in Frisia (as medieval Friesland is usually called to distinguish it from the present-day regions with that name). Hence, a close relationship exists between Old Frisian and Old English.\n\nGenerally, Old Frisian phonologically resembles Old English. In particular, it shares the palatalisation of velar consonants also found in Old English. For example, whereas the closely related Old Saxon and Old Dutch retain the velar in \"dag\", Old Frisian has \"dei\" and Old English has \"dæġ\" . When followed by front vowels the Germanic changed to a sound. The Old Frisian for \"church\" was \"tzirke\" or \"tzerke\", in Old English it was \"ċiriċe\" , while Old Saxon and Old Dutch have the unpalatalised \"kirika\". Another feature shared between the two is Anglo-Frisian brightening, which fronted \"a\" to \"e\" under some circumstances. In unstressed syllables, \"o\" merges into \"a\", and \"i\" into \"e\" as in Old English.\n\nThe old Germanic diphthongs *\"ai\" and *\"au\" become \"ē\"/\"ā\" and \"ā\", respectively, in Old Frisian, as in \"ēn\"/\"ān\" (\"one\") from Proto-Germanic *\"ainaz\", and \"brād\" from *\"braudą\" (\"bread\"). In comparison, these diphthongs become \"ā\" and \"ēa\" (\"ān\" and \"brēad\") in Old English, and \"ē\" and \"ō\" (\"ēn\" and \"brōd\") in Old Saxon. The diphthong *\"eu\" generally becomes \"ia\", and Germanic *\"iu\" is retained. These diphthongs initially began with a syllabic (stressed) \"i\", but the stress later shifts to the second component, giving to \"iā\" and \"iū\". For example, \"thiād\" (\"people\") and \"liūde\" from Proto-Germanic *\"þeudō\" and *\"liudīz\".\n\nBetween vowels, \"h\" generally disappears (\"sian\" from *\"sehwaną\"), as in Old English and Old Dutch. Word-initial \"h-\" on the other hand is retained. Old Frisian retains \"th\" in all positions for longer than Old Dutch and Old Saxon do, showing the gradual spread of the shift from \"th\" to \"d\" from south to north, beginning in southern Germany in the 9th century as part of the High German consonant shift, but not reaching Frisian until the 13th or 14th century.\n\nOld Frisian (c. 1150–c. 1550) retained grammatical cases. Some of the texts that are preserved from this period are from the 12th or 13th centuries, but most are from the 14th and 15th centuries. Generally, all these texts are restricted to legal writings. Although the earliest written examples of Frisian—stray words in a Latin context—are from approximately the 9th century, there are a few examples of runic inscriptions from the region which are older and in a very early form of the Frisian language. These runic writings however usually consist of no more than inscriptions of a single or few words.\n\nThere are some early Frisian names preserved in Latin texts, and some runic (Futhorc) inscriptions, but the oldest surviving texts in Old Frisian date from the 13th century, in particular official and legal documents. They show a considerable degree of linguistic uniformity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22577", "title": "Old Prussian language", "text": "Old Prussian language\n\nOld Prussian is an extinct Baltic language once spoken by the Old Prussians, the Baltic peoples of Prussia (not to be confused with the later and much larger German state of the same name)—after 1945 northeastern Poland, the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia and southernmost part of Lithuania.\n\nThe language is called Old Prussian to avoid confusion with the German dialects Low Prussian and High Prussian and the adjective \"Prussian\", which is also often used to relate to the later German state. Old Prussian began to be written down in the Latin alphabet in about the 13th century, and a small amount of literature in the language survives.\n\nIn addition to Prussia proper, the original territory of the Old Prussians might have included eastern parts of Pomerelia (some parts of the region east of the Vistula River). The language might have also been spoken much further east and south in what became Polesia and part of Podlasie, with the conquests by Rus and Poles starting in the 10th century and the German colonisation of the area that began in the 12th century.\n\nOld Prussian was closely related to the other extinct Western Baltic languages, namely Curonian, Galindian and Sudovian. It is related to the Eastern Baltic languages such as Lithuanian and Latvian, and more distantly related to Slavic. Compare the Old Prussian \"\", (), and .\n\nOld Prussian contained loanwords from Slavic languages (e.g., Old Prussian ' \"hound\", like Lithuanian ' and Latvian ', comes from Slavic (compare , ; ; , as well as a few borrowings from Germanic, including from Gothic (e.g., Old Prussian ' \"awl\" as with Lithuanian ', Latvian ') and from Scandinavian languages.\n\nGroups of people from Germany, Poland, Lithuania, France, Scotland, England, and Austria (see Salzburg Protestants) found refuge in Prussia during the Protestant Reformation and thereafter. Such immigration caused a slow decline in the use of Old Prussian, as the Prussians adopted the languages of their more recently arrived co-citizens, particularly German. Baltic Old Prussian probably ceased to be spoken around the beginning of the 18th century due to many of its remaining speakers dying in the famines and bubonic plague epidemics which harrowed the East Prussian countryside and towns from 1709 until 1711. The Germanic regional dialect of Low German spoken in Prussia (or East Prussia), called Low Prussian (cf. High Prussian, also a Germanic language), preserved a number of Baltic Prussian words, such as ', from the Old Prussian ', for \"shoe\" in contrast to common Low German ' (standard German ').\n\nUntil the 1930s, when the National Socialist government of Germany began a program of Germanisation, and 1945, when the Soviets and Poland annexed East Prussia, one could find Old Prussian river- and place-names there, such as ' and '.\n\nLord's Prayer in Lithuanian dialect of Nadruvia, corrupted (Simon Prätorius)\n\n\nWith other monuments being merely word lists, the grammar of Old Prussian is reconstructed chiefly on the basis of the three Catechisms. There is no consensus on the number of cases that Old Prussian had, and at least four can be determined with certainty: nominative, genitive, accusative and dative, with different desinences. There are traces of a vocative case, such as in the phrase ' \"O God the Lord\", reflecting the inherited PIE vocative ending *'. There was a definite article (' m., ' f.); three genders: masculine, feminine and neuter, and two numbers: singular and plural. Declensional classes were '-stems, '-stems (feminine), '-stems (feminine), '-stems, '-stems, '/'-stems, '/\"\"-stems and consonant-stems. Present, future and past tense are attested, as well as optative forms (imperative, permissive), infinitive, and four participles (active/passive present/past).\n\nA few linguists and philologists are involved in reviving a reconstructed form of the language from Luther's catechisms, the Elbing Vocabulary, place names, and Prussian loanwords in the Low Prussian dialect of German. Several dozen people use the language in Lithuania, Kaliningrad, and Poland, including a few children who are natively bilingual. The Prusaspirā Society has published their translation of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's \"The Little Prince\". The book was translated by Piotr Szatkowski (Pīteris Šātkis) and released in 2015. The other efforts of Baltic Prussian societies include the development of online dictionaries, learning apps and games. There also have been several attempts to produce music with lyrics written in the revived Baltic Prussian language, most notably in the Kaliningrad Oblast by Romowe Rikoito, Kellan and Āustras Laīwan, but also in Lithuania by Kūlgrinda in their 2005 album \"Prūsų Giesmės\" (Prussian Hymns), and in Latvia by Rasa Ensemble in 1988 and Valdis Muktupāvels in his 2005 oratorio \"Pārcēlātājs Pontifex\" featuring several parts sung in Prussian.\n\nImportant in this revival was Vytautas Mažiulis, who died on 11 April 2009, and his pupil Letas Palmaitis, leader of the experiment and author of the website \"Prussian Reconstructions\". Two late contributors were Prāncis Arellis (), Lithuania, and Dailūns Russinis (Dailonis Rusiņš), Latvia. After them, Twankstas Glabbis from Kaliningrad oblast and Nērtiks Pamedīns from East-Prussia, now Polish Warmia-Mazuria actively joined.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8781542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8781542", "title": "On the Frontier", "text": "On the Frontier\n\nOn the Frontier: A Melodrama in Two Acts, by W. H. Auden and Christopher Isherwood, was the third and last play in the Auden-Isherwood collaboration, first published in 1938. \n\nThe play tells the story of the outbreak of war between the fictional European countries of Ostnia and Westland. Some of the action takes place in the \"Ostnia-Westland Room\", an imaginary setting in which two rooms, one in an Ostnian household, one in a Westland household, each occupy half the stage, and the family in one house are unaware of the family in the other - although the son and daughter of the two families sense each other's existence. Other scenes take place in the office of the Westland dictator. The play ends in a visionary scene between the two lovers who have never met in real life.\n\nThe play was produced in October 1938 at the Cambridge Arts Theatre, in a production by the Group Theatre (London). The incidental music for the play was composed by Benjamin Britten.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11238788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11238788", "title": "Pantheism controversy", "text": "Pantheism controversy\n\nThe pantheism controversy () was an event in German cultural history that lasted between 1785–1789 which had an effect throughout Europe.\n\nA conversation between the German philosopher Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi and the German dramatist Gotthold Ephraim Lessing in 1780 led Jacobi to a protracted study of Baruch Spinoza's works. Lessing had avowed that he knew no philosophy, in the true sense of that word, save Spinozism.\n\nJacobi's \"Über die Lehre des Spinozas\" (1st ed. 1785, 2nd ed. 1789) expressed sharply and clearly his strenuous objection to a dogmatic system in philosophy, and drew upon him the vigorous enmity of the Berlin group, led by Moses Mendelssohn. Jacobi claimed that Spinoza's doctrine was pure materialism, because all Nature and God are said to be nothing but extended substance. This, for Jacobi, was the result of Enlightenment rationalism and it would finally end in absolute atheism. Mendelssohn disagreed with Jacobi, saying that there is no actual difference between theism and pantheism. The entire issue became a major intellectual and religious concern for European civilization at the time, which Immanuel Kant rejected, as he thought that attempts to conceive of transcendent reality would lead to antinomies in thought.\n\nJacobi was ridiculed for trying to reintroduce into philosophy the antiquated notion of unreasoning belief, was denounced as an enemy of reason, as a pietist, and as a Jesuit in disguise, and was especially attacked for his use of the ambiguous term \"Glaube\" (German: \"belief, faith\"). \n\nWilli Goetschel argues that Jacobi's publication significantly shaped the reception of Spinoza's doctrine for centuries following its publication, obscuring the nuance of Spinoza's philosophic work.\n\nThe Pantheism controversy is also notable for its development of and influence upon prominent philosophical terms in German culture, including the idea of nihilism and claims that God is dead.\n\nJacobi's next important work, \"David Hume Über den Glauben, oder Idealismus und Realismus\" (1787), was an attempt to show not only that the term \"Glaube\" had been used by the most eminent writers to denote what he had employed it for in the \"Letters on Spinoza\", but that the nature of the cognition of facts as opposed to the construction of inferences could not be otherwise expressed. In this writing, and especially in the appendix, Jacobi came into contact with the critical philosophy, and subjected the Kantian view of knowledge to searching examination.\n\nThe attraction of Spinoza's philosophy to late eighteenth-century Europeans was that it provided an alternative to materialism, atheism, and deism. Three of Spinoza's ideas strongly appealed to them:\n\n"}
{"id": "24768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24768", "title": "Pizza", "text": "Pizza\n\nPizza is a savory dish of Italian origin, consisting of a usually round, flattened base of leavened wheat-based dough topped with tomatoes, cheese, and various other ingredients (anchovies, olives, meat, etc.) baked at a high temperature, traditionally in a wood-fired oven. In formal settings, like a restaurant, pizza is eaten with knife and fork, but in casual settings it is cut into wedges to be eaten while held in the hand. Small pizzas are sometimes called pizzettas. \n\nThe term \"pizza\" was first recorded in the 10th century in a Latin manuscript from the Southern Italian town of Gaeta in Lazio, on the border with Campania. Modern pizza was invented in Naples, and the dish and its variants have since become popular in many countries. Today it is one of the most popular foods in the world and a common fast food item in Europe and North America, available at pizzerias (restaurants specializing in pizza), restaurants offering Mediterranean cuisine, and via pizza delivery. Many companies sell ready-baked frozen pizzas to be reheated in an ordinary home oven. \n\nThe \"Associazione Verace Pizza Napoletana\" (lit. True Neapolitan Pizza Association) is a non-profit organization founded in 1984 with headquarters in Naples which aims to promote traditional Neapolitan pizza. In 2009, upon Italy's request, Neapolitan pizza was registered with the European Union as a Traditional Speciality Guaranteed dish.\n\nThe word \"pizza\" () first appeared in a Latin text from the central Italian town of Gaeta, then still part of the Byzantine Empire, in 997 AD; the text states that a tenant of certain property is to give the bishop of Gaeta \"duodecim pizze\" (\"twelve pizzas\") every Christmas Day, and another twelve every Easter Sunday.\n\nSuggested etymologies include:\n\nFoods similar to pizza have been made since the neolithic age. Records of people adding other ingredients to bread to make it more flavorful can be found throughout ancient history. The ancient Greeks supplemented their bread with oils, herbs, and cheese, and in the 6th century BC, the Persian soldiers of Achaemenid Empire during the rule King Darius I baked flatbreads with cheese and dates on top of their battle shields. An early reference to a pizza-like food occurs in the Aeneid, when Celaeno, queen of the Harpies, foretells that the Trojans would not find peace until they are forced by hunger to eat their tables (Book III). In Book VII, Aeneas and his men are served a meal that includes round cakes (like pita bread) topped with cooked vegetables. When they eat the bread, they realize that these are the \"tables\" prophesied by Celaeno.\n\nModern pizza evolved from similar flatbread dishes in Naples in the 18th or early 19th century. Prior to that time, flatbread was often topped with ingredients such as garlic, salt, lard, cheese, and basil. It is uncertain when tomatoes were first added and there are many conflicting claims. Until about 1830, pizza was sold from open-air stands and out of pizza bakeries, and pizzerias keep this old tradition alive today. \n\nA popular contemporary legend holds that the archetypal pizza, \"pizza Margherita\", was invented in 1889, when the Royal Palace of Capodimonte commissioned the Neapolitan pizzaiolo (pizza maker) Raffaele Esposito to create a pizza in honor of the visiting Queen Margherita. Of the three different pizzas he created, the Queen strongly preferred a pizza swathed in the colors of the Italian flag: red (tomato), green (basil), and white (mozzarella). Supposedly, this kind of pizza was then named after the Queen, although recent research casts doubt on this legend. An official letter of recognition from the Queen's \"head of service\" remains on display in Esposito's shop, now called the Pizzeria Brandi.\n\nPizza was brought to the United States with Italian immigrants in the late nineteenth century and first appeared in areas where Italian immigrants concentrated. The country's first pizzeria, Lombardi's, opened in 1905. Following World War II, veterans returning from the Italian Campaign after being introduced to Italy's native cuisine proved a ready market for pizza in particular. Since then pizza consumption has exploded in the U.S. Pizza chains such as Domino's, Pizza Hut, and Papa John's, pizzas from take and bake pizzerias, and chilled or frozen pizzas from supermarkets make pizza readily available nationwide. 13% of the US population consumes pizza on any given day.\n\nPizza is prepared fresh, frozen, and as portion-size slices or pieces. Methods have been developed to overcome challenges such as preventing the sauce from combining with the dough and producing a crust that can be frozen and reheated without becoming rigid. There are frozen pizzas with raw ingredients and self-rising crusts.\n\nAnother form of uncooked pizza is available from take and bake pizzerias. This pizza is assembled in the store, then sold to customers to bake in their own ovens. Some grocery stores sell fresh dough along with sauce and basic ingredients, to complete at home before baking in an oven.\n\nIn restaurants, pizza can be baked in an oven with stone bricks above the heat source, an electric deck oven, a conveyor belt oven or, in the case of more expensive restaurants, a wood or coal-fired brick oven. On deck ovens, pizza can be slid into the oven on a long paddle, called a peel, and baked directly on the hot bricks or baked on a screen (a round metal grate, typically aluminum). Prior to use, a peel may be sprinkled with cornmeal to allow pizza to easily slide onto and off of it. When made at home, it can be baked on a pizza stone in a regular oven to reproduce the effect of a brick oven. Cooking directly in a metal oven results in too rapid heat transfer to the crust, burning it. Aficionado home-chefs sometimes use a specialty wood-fired pizza oven, usually installed outdoors. Dome-shaped pizza ovens have been used for centuries, which is one way to achieve true heat distribution in a wood-fired pizza oven. Another option is grilled pizza, in which the crust is baked directly on a barbecue grill. Greek pizza, like Chicago-style pizza, is baked in a pan rather than directly on the bricks of the pizza oven.\n\nWhen it comes to preparation, the dough and ingredients can be combined on any kind of table. With mass production of pizza, the process can be completely automated. Most restaurants still use standard and purpose-built pizza preparation tables. Pizzerias nowadays can even opt for hi tech pizza preparation tables that combine mass production elements with traditional techniques.\n\nThe bottom of the pizza, called the 'crust', may vary widely according to style; thin as in a typical hand-tossed Neapolitan pizza, or thick as in a deep-dish Chicago-style. It is traditionally plain, but may also be seasoned with garlic or herbs, or stuffed with cheese. The outer edge of the pizza is sometimes referred to as the \"cornicione\". Pizza dough often contains sugar, both to help its yeast rise and enhance browning of the crust.\n\nDipping sauce specifically for pizza was invented by American pizza chain Papa John's Pizza in 1984, and has since become popular when eating pizza, especially the crust.\n\nMozzarella is commonly used on pizza, with the highest quality buffalo mozzarella produced in the surroundings of Naples. Today, other cheeses have been used as pizza ingredients (particularly Italian cheeses), including provolone, pecorino romano, ricotta, and scamorza. Less expensive processed cheeses or cheese analogues have been developed for mass-market pizzas to produce desirable qualities like browning, melting, stretchiness, consistent fat and moisture content, and stable shelf life. This quest to create the ideal and economical pizza cheese has involved many studies and experiments analyzing the impact of vegetable oil, manufacturing and culture processes, denatured whey proteins and other changes in manufacture. In 1997 it was estimated that annual production of pizza cheese was in the U.S. and in Europe.\n\nAuthentic Neapolitan pizza (\"pizza napoletana\") is made with San Marzano tomatoes, grown on the volcanic plains south of Mount Vesuvius, and mozzarella di bufala Campana, made with milk from water buffalo raised in the marshlands of Campania and Lazio. This mozzarella is protected with its own European protected designation of origin. Other traditional pizzas include \"pizza alla marinara\", which is topped with marinara sauce and is supposedly the most ancient tomato-topped pizza,\npizza capricciosa, which is prepared with mozzarella cheese, baked ham, mushroom, artichoke and tomato, and pizza pugliese, prepared with tomato, mozzarella and onions.\n\nA popular variant of pizza in Italy is Sicilian pizza (locally called \"sfincione\" or \"sfinciuni\"), a thick-crust or deep-dish pizza originating during the 17th century in Sicily: it is essentially a focaccia that is typically topped with tomato sauce and other ingredients. Until the 1860s, \"sfincione\" was the type of pizza usually consumed in Sicily, especially in the Western portion of the island. Other variations of pizzas are also found in other regions of Italy, for example \"pizza al padellino\" or \"pizza al tegamino\", a small-sized, thick-crust and deep-dish pizza typically served in Turin, Piedmont.\n\nArgentina, and more specifically Buenos Aires, received a massive Italian inmigration at the turn of the 19th century. Immigrants from Naples and Genoa opened the first pizza bars, though over time Spanish residents came to own the majority of the pizza businesses. \n\nStandard Argentine pizza has a thicker crust, called \"media masa\" (half dough) than traditional Italian style pizza and includes more cheese. Argentine gastronomy tradition, served pizza with fainá, which is a Genovese chick pea-flour dough placed over the piece of pizza, and moscato wine. The most popular variety of pizza is called \"muzarela\" (mozzarella), similar to Neapolitan pizza (bread, tomato sauce and cheese), but made with a thicker \"media masa\" crust, triple cheese and tomato sauce, usually also with olives. It can be found in nearly every corner of the country; Buenos Aires is considered the city with the most pizza bars by person of the world. Other popular varieties include jam, tomato slices, red pepper and longaniza. Two Argentine born varieties of pizza with onion, are also very popular: fugazza with cheesse and fugazzetta. The former one consists in a regular pizza crust topped with cheese and onions; the later has the cheese between two pizza crusts, with onions on top.\n\nCommon toppings for pizza in the United States include ground beef, mushrooms, onions, pepperoni, pineapple, garlic, olives, peppers, carrots, tomatoes, spinach, anchovies, chicken, bacon, ham and sausage. Distinct regional types developed in the 20th century, including California, Chicago, Greek, New Haven, Detroit, St. Louis, and New York styles. The first pizzeria in the U.S. was opened in New York's Little Italy in 1905 and since then regions throughout the U.S. offer variations, including deep-dish, stuffed, pockets, turnovers, rolled and pizza-on-a-stick, each with seemingly limitless combinations of sauce and toppings.\n\nAnother variation is grilled pizza, created by taking a fairly thin, round (more typically, irregularly shaped) sheet of yeasted pizza dough, placing it directly over the fire of a grill and then turning it over once the bottom has baked and placing a thin layer of toppings on the baked side. Toppings may be sliced thin to ensure that they heat through, and chunkier toppings such as sausage or peppers may be precooked before being placed on the pizza. Garlic, herbs, or other ingredients are sometimes added to the pizza or the crust to maximize the flavor of the dish.\n\nGrilled pizza was offered in the United States at the Al Forno restaurant in Providence, Rhode Island by owners Johanne Killeen and George Germon in 1980. Although it was inspired by a misunderstanding that confused a wood-fired brick oven with a grill, grilled pizza did exist prior to 1980, both in Italy, and in Argentina where it is known as \"pizza a la parrilla\". It has become a popular cookout dish, and there are even some pizza restaurants that specialize in the style. The traditional style of grilled pizza employed at Al Forno restaurant uses a dough coated with olive oil, strained tomato sauce, thin slices of fresh mozzarella, and a garnish made from shaved scallions, and is served uncut. The final product can be likened to flatbread with pizza toppings. Another Providence establishment, Bob & Timmy's Grilled Pizza, was featured in a Providence-themed episode of the Travel Channel's \"Man v. Food Nation\" in 2011.\n\nThe world's largest pizza was prepared in Rome in December 2012, and measured . The pizza was named \"Ottavia\" in homage to the first Roman emperor Octavian Augustus, and was made with a gluten-free base. The world's longest pizza was made in\nFontana, California in 2017 and measured .\n\nThe world's most expensive pizza listed by \"Guinness World Records\" is a commercially available thin-crust pizza at Maze restaurant in London, United Kingdom, which costs . The pizza is wood fire-baked, and is topped with onion puree, white truffle paste, fontina cheese, baby mozzarella, pancetta, cep mushrooms, freshly picked wild mizuna lettuce, and fresh shavings of a rare Italian white truffle.\n\nThere are several instances of more expensive pizzas, such as the \"Pizza Royale 007\" at Haggis restaurant in Glasgow, Scotland, which has caviar, lobster and is topped with 24-carat gold dust, and the caviar pizza made by Nino's Bellissima pizzeria in New York City, New York. However, these are not officially recognized by \"Guinness World Records\". Additionally, a pizza was made by the restaurateur Domenico Crolla that included toppings such as sunblush-tomato sauce, Scottish smoked salmon, medallions of venison, edible gold, lobster marinated in cognac, and champagne-soaked caviar. The pizza was auctioned for charity in 2007, raising .\n\nIn 2017, the world pizza market was $128 billion and in the US it was $44 billion spread over 76,000 pizzerias. Overall, 13% of the U.S. population aged 2 years and over, consumed pizza on any given day.\n\nSome mass-produced pizzas by fast food chains have been criticized as having an unhealthy balance of ingredients. Pizza can be high in salt, fat and calories (food energy). The USDA reports an average sodium content of 5,101 mg per pizza in fast food chains. There are concerns about negative health effects. Food chains have come under criticism at various times for the high salt content of some of their meals.\n\nFrequent pizza eaters in Italy have been found to have a relatively low incidence of cardiovascular disease and digestive tract cancers relative to infrequent pizza eaters, although the nature of the correlation between pizza and such perceived benefits is unclear. Pizza consumption in Italy might only indicate adherence to traditional Mediterranean dietary patterns, which have been shown to have various health benefits.\n\nSome attribute the apparent health benefits of pizza to the lycopene content in pizza sauce, which research indicates likely plays a role in protecting against cardiovascular disease and various cancers.\n\nNational Pizza Month is an annual observance that occurs for the month of October in the United States and some areas of Canada. This observance began in October 1984, and was created by Gerry Durnell, the publisher of \"Pizza Today\" magazine. During this time, some people observe National Pizza Month by consuming various types of pizzas or pizza slices, or going to various pizzerias.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46544101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46544101", "title": "Project Re-ED", "text": "Project Re-ED\n\nProject Re-ED, the Project on the Re-Education of Emotionally Disturbed Children, is a program to provide effective and affordable mental health services for children. The program focuses on teaching a child effective ways of acting in and responding to the child’s social groups (family, schools, peer groups) and also working with those social groups to help them provide a more supportive environment for the child. It began as a pilot project in the 1960s at two residential facilities in Tennessee and North Carolina. It later expanded to more facilities, and the principles of treatment developed in the project have been replicated and adapted in many other programs. \n\nThe program was initiated by an 8-year grant awarded in 1961 by the National Institute of Mental Health to the George Peabody College for Teachers (then a separate school, now part of Vanderbilt University) along with the states of Tennessee and North Carolina. Nicholas Hobbs, a psychology professor and chair the Division of Human Development at Peabody College, was the project’s primary developer. The two states each provided a small residential school – Cumberland House in Nashville, TN and Wright School in Durham, NC – and at the end of the grant period the states assumed responsibility for continuing and funding the program. Within a couple of decades, more than two dozen re-ed schools had been established, and many more facilities had applied principles developed in the re-ed program.\n\nThe program was a response to a 1954 study from the Southern Regional Education Board and the National Institute of Mental Health which noted the lack of adequate services and facilities for emotionally disturbed children available at the time in the southeast United States. The structure of the Re-ED program was inspired in large part by residential programs in post-World War II Scotland and France addressing mental health needs in children resulting from effects of the war. These programs were staffed largely by teachers who received primarily on-the-job practical training in psychological therapy. Following that model, Project Re-ED carefully selected effective, experienced teachers with demonstrated adaptability and creativity, and provided them with one year of graduate level practical and theoretical training in working with emotionally disturbed children.\n\nDevelopment of the program was guided by social learning theory and ecological theory, and the program takes an educational rather than a therapeutic approach.\n\nFollowing social learning theory, the program considers it important to focus on assisting children to learn new and more positive ways to interact with others in a social setting. \n\nFollowing ecological theory, the program emphasizes a holistic approach of addressing issues in the family, school, peer group, and other social settings of a child’s life together at the same time. This way, counsellors can see how troubling issues in each of these social settings influence each other, rather than addressing each setting in isolation.\n\nThe approach of the re-education method is to view emotionally disturbed children’s problems as symptoms resulting from problems in the child’s social settings. So, rather than seeing the goal as curing a child’s mental illness in long-term private, individual therapy, the program seeks to restructure a child’s environment and teach the child how to act more constructively and positively within that environment. \n\nFollow-up studies indicate that the program does effectively attain its goal of restoring and improving social operation of children and their environment in a relatively short amount of time (with an average stay in the program of about 7 months) relative to similar children not in the program. A study of the results in children ages 6-12 found a substantial reduction in problem behaviors among former students in the program, with greater gains associated with younger age and a longer stay in the program. Another study found positive results among adolescents in the program, including among students who had not done well in other programs. Both of these studies noted, however, the difficulty of determining what specific aspects of such a program influence which positive results. In general, the program is judged a viable and effective means of providing help to emotionally disturbed children.\n\n"}
{"id": "9928955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9928955", "title": "Rastra", "text": "Rastra\n\nRastra is a tradename for a particular insulating concrete form (ICF) used to make walls for buildings. It is one of the earliest such products, in production since 1972, and is composed of concrete and thastyron. Thastyron is a mixture of plastic foam and binder that is composed of eighty-five percent recycled post consumer polystyrene waste that are molded into blocks. The main components of rastra are cement, water and expanded polystyrene.\n\nRastra is sustainable in its production because no energy is used in the curing process, and only one to three kilowatt hour (kWh) is required to make each block. After the blocks are trimmed to exact size, the remaining debris is recycled to create new blocks. No byproducts are released in the production process that are considered a burden to the environment.\n\nRastra blocks come in different sizes, and can be easily cut with woodworking tools to form the desired shape. These blocks are commonly attached together with clamps or glue to form a grid-like system. Rebar is then run through the grid, which is then filled with concrete.\n\nPolystyrene concrete was invented in 1960. BASF, a German chemical conglomerate, originally created this product, but found no successful applications. An Austrian-Swiss-based company modified the product and created what is known as Rastra.\n\nAs a thermal barrier, Rastra has a four-hour fire rating with no flame spread and no smoke development. A five-hour fire endurance test of a ten-inch-thick wall with temperatures exceeding two thousand degrees Fahrenheit on the face of the wall showed that the wall did not conduct heat. This lowers the number of health hazards during a fire and also makes building repairs easier afterwards.\n\nThastyron has a compressive strength of 56 pound-force per square inch (psi) and a tensile strength of 43 psi. Rastra has a low toxicity level. Rastra is highly frost, fungus, and mildew-resistant. The sound insulation is greater than 50 decibel(dB).\n\nAs a heat insulation, rastra keeps a room at a constant temperature and evens out temperature changes, both of which can lower energy use. It also has a low heat penetration depth.\n"}
{"id": "42993804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42993804", "title": "Rational series", "text": "Rational series\n\nIn mathematics and computer science, a rational series is a generalisation of the concept of formal power series over a ring to the case when the basic algebraic structure is no longer a ring but a semiring, and the indeterminates adjoined are not assumed to commute. They can be regarded as algebraic expressions of a formal language over a finite alphabet.\n\nLet \"R\" be a semiring and \"A\" a finite alphabet.\n\nA \"noncommutative polynomial\" over \"A\" is a finite formal sum of words over \"A\". They form a semiring formula_1.\n\nA \"formal series\" is a \"R\"-valued function \"c\", on the free monoid \"A\", which may be written as\n\nThe set of formal series is denoted formula_3 and becomes a semiring under the operations\n\nA non-commutative polynomial thus corresponds to a function \"c\" on \"A\" of finite support.\n\nIn the case when \"R\" is a ring, then this is the \"Magnus ring\" over \"R\".\n\nIf \"L\" is a language over \"A\", regarded as a subset of \"A\" we can form the \"characteristic series\" of \"L\" as the formal series\n\ncorresponding to the characteristic function of \"L\".\n\nIn formula_3 one can define an operation of iteration expressed as\n\nand formalised as\n\nThe \"rational operations\" are the addition and multiplication of formal series, together with iteration.\nA rational series is a formal series obtained by rational operations from formula_1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8965926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8965926", "title": "Sand table", "text": "Sand table\n\nA sand table uses constrained sand for modelling or educational purposes. The original version of a sand table may be the abax used by early Greek students. In the modern era, one common use for a sand table is to make terrain models for military planning and wargaming.\n\nAn abax was a table covered with sand commonly used by students, particularly in Greece, to perform studies such as writing, geometry, and calculations.\n\nAn abax was the predecessor to the abacus. Objects, such as stones, were added for counting and then columns for place-valued arithmetic. The demarcation between an abax and an abacus seems to be poorly defined in history; moreover, modern definitions of the word \"abacus\" universally describe it as a frame with rods and beads and, in general, do not include the definition of \"sand table\".\n\nThe sand table may well have been the predecessor to some board games. (\"The word abax, or abacus, is used both for the reckoning-board with its counters and the play-board with its pieces, ...\"). \"Abax\" is from the old Greek for \"sand table\".\n\nAn Arabic word for sand (or dust) is \"ghubar\" (or \"gubar\"), and Western numerals (the decimal digits 0–9) are derived from the style of digits written on \"ghubar\" tables in North-West Africa and Iberia, also described as the 'West Arabic' or 'gubar' style.\n\nSand tables have been used for military planning and wargaming for many years as a field expedient, small-scale map, and in training for military actions. In 1890 a Sand table room was built at the Royal Military College of Canada for use in teaching cadets military tactics; this replaced the old sand table room in a pre-college building, in which the weight of the sand had damaged the floor. The use of sand tables increasingly fell out of favour with improved maps, aerial and satellite photography, and later, with digital terrain simulations. More modern sand tables have incorporated Augmented Reality, such as the Augmented Reality Sandtable (ARES) developed by the Army Research Laboratory. Today, virtual and conventional sand tables are used in operations training.\n\nIn 1991, \"Special Forces teams discovered an elaborate sand-table model of the Iraqi military plan for the defense of Kuwait City. Four huge red arrows from the sea pointed at the coastline of Kuwait City and the huge defensive effort positioned there. Small fences of concertina wire marked the shoreline and models of artillery pieces lined the shore area. Throughout the city were plastic models of other artillery and air defense positions, while thin, red-painted strips of board designated supply routes and main highways.\"\n\nIn 2006, Google Earth users looking at satellite photography of China found a several \"kilometre\" large \"sand table\" scale model, strikingly reminiscent of a mountainous region (Aksai Chin) which China occupies militarily in a disputed zone with India, 2400 km from the model's location. Speculation has been rife that the terrain is used for military exercises of familiarisation.\nA sand table is a device useful for teaching in the early grades and for special needs children.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51355074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51355074", "title": "Sebastian Martin", "text": "Sebastian Martin\n\nSebastian Martin (also known as \"Healer Baba\" by media) was a controversial faith healer who claimed to cure all ailments through Jesus, including HIV, cancer, kidney, heart and other diseases through miracles.\n\nHe founded the Ashirward Prayer Centre as a venue for faith healing. Murdered rationalist Narendra Dabholkar had filed a police complaint against Sebastian and his associates for practicing alleged black magic. and police had closed down the prayer center for its alleged black magic activities.\n\nSebastian shot to fame after his videos of ‘healing patients’ went viral on YouTube and other social media platforms.\n\nSebastian, a severe diabetic patient, died on 17 August 2016 at Bhuigaon after a prolonged illness. Some critics wrote articles about him stating that if he could heal others, why couldn't he heal himself.\n"}
{"id": "46881932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46881932", "title": "Skylanders: SuperChargers", "text": "Skylanders: SuperChargers\n\nSkylanders: SuperChargers is a role-playing action-adventure platformer video game developed by Vicarious Visions and Beenox and published by Activision. It was released on September 20, 2015 for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Wii U, and was released on October 18, 2015 for iOS. Skylanders: SuperChargers Racing was released as a standalone title for Wii and the Nintendo 3DS on the same date, and it features only the racing portion developed by Beenox. The game is the fifth installment of the \"Skylanders\" series. It introduces vehicles for the first time in the series.\n\nSimilar to its predecessors, \"Skylanders: SuperChargers\" is a \"toy-to-life\" video game in which players can place toy figurine on the \"Portal of Power\", which allows players to play as the figurine-represented character in-game. The game introduces a redesigned \"Portal of Power\", in which the surface has become larger and wider so as to accommodate vehicles, which is of larger size than typical characters. Vehicles are one of the newly introduced features in \"SuperChargers\". According to Activision, about 50% of the game must be completed through driving. Vehicles are divided into three classes, which include land vehicles, sea vehicles and sky vehicles. With the use of ground vehicles and water vehicles, players can race on land or dive underwater on several different tracks, while the flying ship features an \"autopilot system\" which can guide players to their destination automatically. Players can have the option to accelerate and decelerate the ship.\n\nEach track is filled with obstacles, which players must evade, and each has its own alternate routes, which can help a player to reach the finish line faster. Players must defeat a boss before they reach the finish line and they must solve a puzzle before they proceed. Players can also collect parts for vehicles to upgrade it. A customization screen automatically opens up after the player collects a part. Player can also choose to purchase mods to upgrade the vehicle via an in-game currency called \"Gearbits\", which can be earned through completing missions and stages. Each character has their own matching vehicles, and once the player finds out the correct combination, the character will enter a \"Supercharge\" state, which grants the vehicle additional abilities. The 117 characters introduced in the series since \"\" will still be playable in \"SuperChargers\", but the game will only include 20 new figurines, due to the inclusion of vehicles. Returning characters, such as Stealth Elf and Trigger Happy are re-imagined with new abilities and a new upgrade tree. Additionally, the Nintendo versions of the game exclusively feature special guest appearances by Donkey Kong and Bowser of the \"Mario\" series fame, whom have Skylanders toy figures that can double as Amiibo figures for other games.\n\nThe game can also be played cooperatively with another player. Only one vehicle can be used, with one player driving while the other one defends against threats.\n\nThe Skystones minigame return in a deeper more refined form. The traps collected in \"Skylanders: Trap Team\" will directly play into this, adding a unique Skystone to play. As per previous iterations, a Starter Pack including a portal will be available in shops, however, consumers will also be able to download the title at a cheaper price, and use their existing portal from \"Skylanders: Trap Team\".\n\n\"Skylanders: SuperChargers\" introduces twenty matching pairs of vehicles and Superchargers. There are numerous variant figures of Skylanders and vehicles. There are also trophies that allow the players to race as villains; these come in racing action packs. A Kaos trophy is included in the dark edition of the game's starter pack.\n\nKaos narrates his previously failed plans as he tells the Portal Masters that he has captured Master Eon, Flynn, Cali, and Hugo. Now that Kaos has control of the portals, he tells the players that they are getting cut off from Skylands forever. Hugo manages to get through to the Portal Masters stating that they must place a land vehicle on the portal so that they can get the Skylanders to Skylands. Once that is done, the Skylanders infiltrate a transport ship owned by Count Moneybone where they manage to free Hugo, Cali, and Flynn. Hugo tells them that there are other prisoners on the transport ship that need freeing too. Upon getting topside, Flynn, Cali, and Hugo see a contraption that is \"eating the sky.\" Hugo's book glows as Master Eon's message states that he has been taken captive and that Kaos has used the Darkness to construct the Sky Eater. In order to combat it, a special team of Skylanders called the SuperChargers have been assembled to help combat the Sky Eater utilizing special rift engines that utilize the same technology as the portals.\n\nAt Motley Meadows, the Skylanders find that it is under the attack of the Sky Eater and they rescue the inhabitants. Back on the transport ship, they work to take out Count Moneybone's fighter ships that are targeting the escape pods that he had activated and asks the Portal Master to bring in help. Upon gaining control of the lead ship, they fall back to the Skylander Academy. Kaos learns from Glumshanks that some of the Trolls have been complaining about the Darkness getting bigger from the skies that it eats. Count Moneybone tells Kaos the status on Master Eon's confinement.\n\nHugo discovers that he has the sock of Master Eon. The Skylanders head to the Cloudscraper Mountains to seek out the Cloudbreather Dragon, who can track Master Eon to where he is being held with the scent of the sock. However, the forces of Kaos have seized the mountain and try to kidnap the Dragon. The Superchargers liberate the dragon just in time. The Cloudbreather Dragon tells them that Eon is currently trapped in the Land of The Undead. However, in order to get there, they must upgrade the Skylander's vehicles Rift Engines using the Thunderous Bolt from Cloud Kingdom. However, upon arrival, it seems that the place has been overtaken by Kaos, courtesy of Lord Stratosfear. He will not allow the Skylanders to take the bolt, so they must defeat him first. The Skylanders take down the transport ships invading the kingdom and attack Lord Stratosfear's Storm Generator. Upon Lord Stratosfear's defeat, all of the vehicles are upgraded by the Thunderous Bolt to travel to the Land of The Undead.\n\nThe Superchargers make it to the outskirts of the Detention Center and learn about the Perspective gates, which shifts gravity according to the position of the gate. Fighting their way though the prison and freeing as many prisoners as possible, Count Moneybone is defeated and Eon is freed. Kaos then learns of the defeat, but before he can act, the Darkness becomes sentient and proceeds to lead Kaos in the direction he needs.\n\nMeanwhile, Master Eon tells the Superchargers that they need to defeat the threat of the Darkness by finding out how the Ancients defeated it the last time; however, the only records of this is in the Spell Punk Library, which only a Spell Punk can navigate. The Superchargers go to BattleBrawl Island in order to defeat SpellSlamzer, a Spell Punk. The Superchargers then head to the Spell Punk Library, where they learn that the Darkness was let into Skylands by \"The Dark Rift Engine\", a super powerful Rift Engine, and the Core of Light was developed as a weapon against the Darkness, but it was never completed. They decide to seek the author of a book, Pomfrey Le Fuzzbottom in hopes that he can tell them how to complete the Core of Light.\n\nAt the Sky Eater, Kaos is convinced by the Darkness to rule the universe, not just Skylands. Glumshanks tries to talk Kaos out of it, but the Darkness convinces Kaos to fire Glumshanks. Glumshanks, now jobless, leaves the Sky Eater and is taken to the Skylander Academy. Buzz is suspicious of Glumshanks, but agrees to give him a trial basis.\n\nThe Superchargers head to Gladfly Glades, where they meet a strange collector who promises to give them Fuzzbottom if they can reach him, while shrunk to microscopic size. The Superchargers get to Fuzzbottom, who tells them that the last part of the Core of Light is The Eye of the Ancients, which will turn it into a weapon against the Darkness. However, it is in possession of a Lobster Titan, and the only way to match the Titan's power is to use the Kolossal Kernel, which is in possession of their old enemy, Cluck, who has also started a fast food chain called Cap'n Cluck's King Size Chicken. However, this is a front for a chicken army, led by Cluck, and financed by the money he gets from selling his chicken, which he is growing with the Kolossal Kernel. The Superchargers defeat Cluck and take the Kolossal Kernel, which Mags then pops into popcorn. The Superchargers then use the Kolossal Kernel to grow to titan size and defeat the Lobster Titan, gaining the Eye of the Ancients.\n\nMags then completes the Core of Light, but Kaos has been warned by the Darkness that the Core of Light has been completed, and attacks the Skylander Academy, destroying the Core of Light for good. Glumshanks then sacrifices himself so that the Superchargers can escape. They escape, but they now have no weapon against the Darkness. Pandergast then announces the Ridepacolypse Demolition Derby, and the grand prize is Glumshanks. The Skylanders win the derby and get Glumshanks back.\n\nBack at the Academy, Glumshanks proposes that the Superchargers use the Dark Rift Engine to send the Darkness back where it came from. Eon tells them that the Vault of the Ancients is the most likely place that the Dark Rift Engine could be. The Superchargers, Flynn, Tessa and Glumshanks head to the vault, where they meet a flower-like Watch Wraith named Pluck, who gives the Superchargers the ability to attract and repulse things (or \"Push\" and \"Pull\"). The Superchargers recover the Dark Rift Engine, but cannot use their \"Push\" or \"Pull\" powers outside of the Vault.\n\nOnce the Superchargers return, they are attacked by Sky Pirates who kidnap Mags. The Superchargers get on the Flying Bandit Train and fight Captain BlubberBeard, who wants Mags to make their train go faster. BlubberBeard is defeated and Mags finishes modifying the Dark Rift Engine to send the Darkness back to where it came from.\n\nMeanwhile, Kaos is confronted by an imaginary Glumshanks, who is trying to stop him from destroying all of Skylands. Kaos begins to doubt that he is doing the right thing in destroying Skylands. He confronts the Darkness about this, but the Darkness threatens to take away his powers, so Kaos opens a Mega Rift to destroy all of Skylands.\n\nThe Superchargers, Flynn, Cali and Glumshanks then launch an all out attack on the Sky Eater and make it to Kaos's throne room, where Kaos attacks the Superchargers with the full Power of the Darkness, but he still loses. The Darkness then freezes everyone except for Kaos. Kaos then gets fed up with the Darkness telling him what to do and activates the Dark Rift Engine, and escapes with the Superchargers and their allies. The credits then roll.\n\nSuddenly, the Darkness pulls the Rift back open and sucks in the credits. The Darkness then put the remains of the Sky Eater as armor and Eon tells the player that all of their training has led them to this battle, with the Darkness pulling the Superchargers into a void. The Superchargers defeat the Darkness and go back to the Academy, where Kaos tells them that just because the Darkness is gone does not mean that evil is still out there and joins the Academy as \"the Ultimate Evil Consultant of Ultimate Evil\" until he can find out how to get his powers back. Cali asks Buzz if that's a real job, and Buzz says that this is the best way to keep an eye on Kaos for the moment. Flynn then says that they need to do something awesome, which Cali, Buzz, Tessa, Mags, and Hugo all try saying their own versions of \"Boom\", but Flynn doesn't like them, Flynn finally suggests they all do it together. Everyone then says their own versions of \"Boom!\". Eon then narrates the player out, until Kaos interrupts him, taking over the closing narration. The credits roll (for real this time).\n\nA new \"Skylanders\" video game was confirmed by publisher Activision on February 5, 2015. The inclusion of vehicles and the game's title was leaked on May 26, 2015, ahead of its official reveal on June 3, 2015.\n\nThe racing elements of the full game were developed by Beenox. The Nintendo 3DS and Wii versions only feature this racing portion, because porting the full current generation game was considered \"a big challenge\" and game director Maxime Montcalm said that \"nobody could do it\". With the announcement of \"\", \"SuperChargers Racing\" is considered the final \"Skylanders\" installment to be released on the Wii and Nintendo 3DS.\n\n\"Skylanders: SuperChargers\" received positive reviews. Aggregating review website Metacritic gave the Wii U version 87/100 based on 13 reviews, the PlayStation 4 version 81/100 based on 51 reviews and the Xbox One version 76/100 based on 15 reviews.\n\nActivision reported in February 2016 that the game missed their sales expectations.\n\n"}
{"id": "9881680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9881680", "title": "Speak, Bird, Speak Again", "text": "Speak, Bird, Speak Again\n\nSpeak, Bird, Speak Again: A book of Palestinian folk tales is a book first published in English in 1989 by Palestinian authors Ibrahim Muhawi and professor of sociology and anthropology at Bir Zeit University Sharif Kanaana.\n\nAfter the original English book of 1989, a French version, published by UNESCO, followed in 1997, and an Arabic one in Lebanon in 2001.\n\nThe book contains a collection of 45 Palestinian folk tales drawn from a collection of two hundred tales narrated by women from different areas of historic Palestine (the Galilee, the West Bank, and Gaza). The stories collected were chosen on the basis of their popularity, their aesthetic and narrative qualities, and what they tell about popular Palestinian culture dating back many centuries. The authors spent 30 years collecting the material for the book.\n\nThe English version of the book is studied as part of literature courses at both University of California at Berkeley and Chicago University, and Kana'nah himself taught the study of the book in the masters programs at Bir Zeit University.\n\nSome of the folk tales from \"Speak, Bird, Speak Again\" have been used in other collections/books:\n\nIn 2007 the Hamas-run Palestinian Authority (PA) banned the book and issued a directive to pull Professor Kanaana's book from school libraries and destroy it, however, the ban was later lifted. The book was misinterpreted, explained the author, \"since it was not meant to be taught to children, as it is taught at the masters and doctorate level [in literature studies].\"\n\nThe Palestinian novelist Zakariya Mohammed warned that Hamas' decision to ban the book, which is a collection of 45 folk tales, was \"only the beginning\" and he urged intellectuals to take action. He said: \"If we don't stand up to the Islamists now, they won't stop confiscating books, songs and folklore\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29272473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29272473", "title": "The Untitled Kartik Krishnan Project", "text": "The Untitled Kartik Krishnan Project\n\nThe Untitled Kartik Krishnan Project is a 2010 Indian film produced and directed by independent filmmaker Srinivas Sunderrajan. It is a Hindi-English drama-thriller film with English subtitles shot on HDV in black-and-white. It is touted as India's first Mumble Core film. The film was shot entirely on location in Mumbai, India. It was screened at the 2010 Mumbai International Film Festival in the New Faces of Indian Cinema Section on 26 October 2010 and on 5 June 2011 at Transylvania International Film Festival in competition\n\nIn a bustling office in Mumbai, Kartik Krishnan (Kartik Krishnan) sits behind his desk coding HTML websites when he chances upon a blog on cinema featuring Independent filmmakers. This sparks his intentions to make his own short film, thus leading him to contact Srinivas Sunderrajan (Vishwesh K), an independent filmmaker who had met Kartik's idol and famed director Quentin Tarantino at an international film festival, who in turn agrees to guide Kartik through the process.\n\nAs Kartik begins piecing the story, cast and screenplay together, several inexplicable phenomena start emerging in his life including a sinister stalker (D Santosh) dressed in official government clothing; and the sudden appearance of a strange future-telling antique toy.\n\nTroubled with these bizarre developments and the unresolved feelings that he harbours for Swara Bhaskar (Swara Bhaskar), his colleague, Kartik embarks on an extraordinary journey that transcends love, life and logic itself.\n\n\nThe film was shot on weekends over nearly a year since most of the actors had day jobs and they could only afford to spare the weekend. Also, since there were no location permits, the cast and crew used to sometimes end up without a location for a week, which meant the shoot had to be shifted to the next week. Since the cast were all good friends of Sunderrajan, they agreed to work for free. A lot of the 'time stretch' happened because of location unavailability. And when the location was ready, the actors would be unavailable due to other commitments. True to guerrilla filmmaking, many times the extras and the crowd in the frames did not even know that shooting was being done.\n\nAt any given point of time, only the director, the cinematographer and the lead actor, and depending on which location was being filmed - the secondary character was present on the sets. Mid-way through shooting the original script, the main location (the protagonist's house) collapsed. One day the building was there, and the next day the third floor caved in on the second. And so the location was cordoned off, even though 60 percent of shooting was still left to be done at that location.\n\nThe script was outlined, yet completely improvised by the actors with the director often giving the actors a free hand. In keeping with its meta fiction genre, the film's characters were named after the actors who played them and many instances in the film have been based on real events which transpired between the cast and crew.\n\nThe initial edit was done on a borrowed Macbook (in-between shooting days) and later the post production, VFX & Sound Design (Vijesh Rajan) of the film was done in a one-month time-span on a home computer so that it could be sent out within several film festivals' deadlines. After seeing an initial screening, director Anurag Kashyap helped to promote the film.\n\n\n16. ^ Shalini Seth (12 February 2011). \"The New Indie Brigade\". Yuva. Retrieved 28 March 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "21342679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342679", "title": "The arts and politics", "text": "The arts and politics\n\nA strong relationship between the arts and politics, particularly between various kinds of art and power, occurs across historical epochs and cultures. As they respond to contemporaneous events and politics, the arts take on political as well as social dimensions, becoming themselves a focus of controversy and even a force of political as well as social change.\n\nA widespread observation is that a great talent has a free spirit. For instance Pushkin, who some scholars regard as Russia's first great writer, attracted the mad irritation of the Russian officialdom and particularly of the Tsar, since he \"instead of being a good servant of the state in the rank and file of the administration and extolling conventional virtues in his vocational writings (if write he must), composed extremely arrogant and extremely independent and extremely wicked verse in which a dangerous freedom of thought was evident in the novelty of his versification, in the audacity of his sensual fancy, and in his propensity for making fun of major and minor tyrants.\"\n\nAccording to Groys, \"Art has its own power in the world, and is as much a force in the power play of global politics today as it once was in the arena of cold war politics.\"\n\nPertaining to such politically-intractable phenomena as the Modern conflicts in the Middle East, however, some artists and social critics believe that \"art is useless as a tool for political change.\" There are, nevertheless, examples where artists employ art in the service of political change.\n\nThe Italian poet Ungaretti, when interviewed on transgression by director Pasolini for the 1964 \"Love Meetings\" documentary, said that the foundation of poetry is to transgress all laws: \"I am a poet and as such I begin transgressing all the laws by doing poetry\".\n\nThe Situationist International (SI), a small group of international political and artistic agitators with roots in Marxism, Lettrism and the early 20th-century European artistic and political avant-gardes formed in 1957, aspired to major social and political transformations; before disbanding in 1972 and splitting into a number of different groups, including the Situationist Bauhaus, the Antinational, and the Second Situationist International, the first SI became active in Europe through the 1960s and elsewhere throughout the world and was characterized by an anti-capitalist and surrealist perspective on aesthetics and politics, according to Italian art historian Francesco Poli. In the works of the situationists, Italian scholar Mirella Bandini observes, there is no separation between art and politics; the two confront each other in revolutionary terms .\n\nHistorically, revolutionary ideas have emerged first among artists and intellectuals. That's why a precise mechanism to defuse the role of artists and intellectuals is to relegate them into specialized, compartmentalized disciplines, in order to impose unnatural dichotomies as the \"separation of art from politics\". Once artistic-intellectual works are separated from current events and from a comprehensive critique of society, they are sterilized and can be safely integrated into the official culture and the public discourse, where they can add new flavours to old dominant ideas and play the role of a gear wheel in the mechanism of the society of the spectacle.\n\n\"Not content with claiming leftwing music\", posters for the Conservative Party in the UK recycled iconic art styles of \"socialist revolution\" to communicate its political message in 2008.\n\nCzech sculptor David Černý's \"Entropa\", a sculpture commissioned to mark the Czech presidency of the European Union Council during the first semester of 2009, illustrates how art can come into conflict with politics, creating various kinds of controversy in the process, both intentionally and unintentionally. \"Entropa\" attracted controversy both for its stereotyped depictions of the various EU member states and for having been a creation of Černý and two friends rather than, as Černý purported, a collaboration of 27 artists from each of the member states. Some EU members states reacted negatively to the depiction of their country, with Bulgaria, for instance, deciding to summon the Czech Ambassador to Sofia in order to discuss the illustration of the Balkan country as a collection of squat toilets (ČTK). This \"Europe-wide hoax … reveals deeper truths\" not only about the countries but \"about art itself\" (Gavrilova).\n\nAccording to Esti Sheinberg, a lecturer in music at the University of Edinburgh, in her book \"Irony, Satire, Parody and the Grotesque in the Music of Shostakovich\", in \"the traditional Russian perception of the arts\", an \"interrelationship between artistic technique and ideological content is the main aesthetic criterion\" (ix; cf. Blois).\n\nLudwig van Beethoven did not use the original title \"Ode to Freedom\" of Friedrich Schiller's lyric, known in English as \"Ode to Joy\" (1785), in setting it to music in the final movement of his Ninth Symphony (1824), which \"Napoleonic censors had forced the poet to change to 'Ode to Joy'.\" After the fall of the Berlin Wall, on 9 November 1989, that Christmas Day, when Leonard Bernstein conducted a performance of Beethoven's Ninth at the site of the former East German–West German border in Berlin, a concert telecast nationally in the United States, he substituted \"Freedom\" for \"Joy\" to reflect his own \"personal message\".\n\nIn February 1952, the United States Customs Service seized the passport of Paul Robeson, preventing him from leaving the United States to travel to the Fourth Canadian Convention of the International Union of Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; but, after \"The convention heard Robeson sing over the telephone\", the union organized \"a concert on the US-Canada border\". According to the account of the \"Paul Robeson Centennial Celebration\": \"Robeson sang and spoke for 45 minutes. He introduced his first song stating 'I stand here today under great stress because I dare, as do you—all of you, to fight for peace and for a decent life for all men, women and children' … [and, accompanied by Lawrence Brown on piano,] proceeded to sing spirituals, folk songs, labour songs, and a passionate version of Old Man River, written for him in the [1920s], slowly enunciating 'show a little grit and you land in jail', underlining the fact that his government had turned the entire country into a prison for Robeson and many others.\"\n\nIn the 1960s the songs of Pete Seeger, Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, and others protested further racism, war, and the military-industrial complex, continuing an American artistic tradition of political protest founded during its colonial era.\n\nIn force from July 1985 until May 2002 and considered by its opponents a Draconian \"anti-music law\", the Teen Dance Ordinance (TDO), imposing restrictions on clubs admitting those under the legal drinking age of 21 in Seattle, Washington, was still the subject of protracted political and legal opposition in U.S. Federal Court in early 2002, when a suit filed by the Joint Artists and Music Promotions Action Committee (JAMPAC) in 2000 was still being adjudicated. In May 2002, Judge Lasnik ruled for the City of Seattle on JAMPAC's suit, finding no Constitutional infringement of the First Amendment and deciding that the matter is a political one for the Seattle City Council to decide, not the courts; during the course of the suit, Mayor Schell's successor, Greg Nickels, a proponent of the bill, resubmitted the ordinance to the Seattle City Council, and, on 12 August 2002, the new All-Ages Dance Ordinance (AADO) replaced the TDO, but was not considered much of an improvement by its critics.\n\nIn May 2008 a \"Promoters Ordinance\" proposed by the Chicago City Council aroused opposition in Chicago, Illinois, for being regarded as overly restrictive and stifling free expression.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the Licensing Act 2003, the London Borough of Hillingdon cited \"the interest of public order and the prevention of terrorism\" as reasons for expecting promoters of live music events to complete the Metropolitan Police's Form 696. Though later clarified by a police spokesperson as not \"\", the perceived \"demand\" for the information solicited on such \"risk assessment\" forms motivated Jon McClure, lead singer with Reverend and The Makers, to post an electronic petition in the \"E-Petitions\" section of the official website of Gordon Brown, the UK Prime Minister, at Number10.gov.uk, in order to facilitate protest against what McClure alleges is \"racial discrimination\" occasioned by such bureaucratic constraints, which some have deemed \"police authoritarianism\". It begins: \"We the undersigned petition the Prime Minister to Scrap the unnecessary and draconian usage of the 696 Form from London music events\". By 11 November 2008, according to Orlowski, \"A dozen London boroughs [had] implemented a 'risk assessment' [Form 696] policy for live music that permits the police to ban any live music if they fail to receive personal details from the performers 14 days in advance.\" Orlowski points out: The demand explicitly singles out performances and musical styles favoured by the black community: garage and R&B, and MCs and DJs. ... However all musical performances – from one man playing a guitar on up – are subject to the demands once implemented by the council. And the threat is serious: failure to comply 'may jeopardise future events by the promoter or the venue'. ... UK Music chief Feargal Sharkey ... speaking to the Department of Culture Media and Sport's hearing on venue licensing today [11 Nov. 2008] [concluded that] ... 'Live music is now a threat to the prevention of terrorism'. ... In response, Detective Superintendent Dave Eyles from the Met's clubs and vice office told us that 10,000 such Risk Assessments would be processed this year. He said they weren't : ... 'We can't demand it – we recommend that you provide it as best practice. But you're bloody silly if you don't, because you're putting your venue at risk.' By early March 2009, over 16,000 British citizens or residents had signed McClure's E-Petition, which remained open to potential signatories until 1 December 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2515213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515213", "title": "Torchy Blane", "text": "Torchy Blane\n\nTorchy Blane is a fictional female reporter starring in a series of films in the 1930s. Warner Bros. produced nine films between 1937 and 1939. The Torchy Blane series were popular second features during the later 1930s and were mixtures of mystery, action, adventure, and fun. \n\nDuring the pre-World War II period, newspaper reporter was one of the few roles in American cinema that portrayed women positively, as intelligent, competent, self-reliant, and career-oriented—virtually equal to men. Of these role models, Torchy Blane, a beautiful, headline-hunting, wisecracking female reporter was perhaps the best known. The typical plot of movies featuring the character have the resilient, fast-talking Torchy solving a crime (the central element of the film's plot) before her less-than-perceptive boyfriend, loud-mouthed police detective Steve McBride, can.\n\nIn 1936, Warner Bros. began to develop an adaptation of the \"MacBride and Kennedy\" stories by detective novelist Frederick Nebel. For the film version, Kennedy is changed to a woman named Teresa \"Torchy\" Blane and is now in love with MacBride's character. Torchy was loosely based on Kennedy. She was also more compatible with the Hays code than a faithful on-screen adaptation of Kennedy would have been. \n\nThe first film was based on Nebel's \"Macbride and Kennedy\" story \"No Hard Feelings.\" The story was later adapted again as the 1941 film \"A Shot in the Dark\". Director Frank MacDonald immediately knew who he wanted for the role of Torchy Blane. Glenda Farrell had already played hard-boiled reporters in earlier Warner Bros. films, \"Mystery of the Wax Museum\" (1933) and \"Hi, Nellie!\" (1934), she was quickly cast in the first Torchy Blane movie, \"Smart Blonde\", with Barton MacLane playing detective Steve McBride. Farrell and MacLane would co-star in seven of the nine Torchy Blane films by Warner Bros. \"Smart Blonde\" were released on January 2, 1937, the film was a surprise hit, and Warner Bros. made eight more movies from 1937 to 1939. \n\nIn the fifth Torchy Blane film, \"Torchy Blane in Panama\" (1938), Warner Bros. replaced Farrell and MacLane (a pairing that was loved by the moviegoing public) with Lola Lane and Paul Kelly as Torchy and Steve. Negative fan reaction led Warner Bros. to recast Farrell and MacLane in the leading roles. They starred in three more Torchy Blane films. In 1939, Farrell left the studio, and Warner Bros. recast the roles with Jane Wyman and Allen Jenkins. The public again reacted negatively to the new casting. \"Torchy Blane... Playing with Dynamite\" (1939) would be the final film in the series. A leftover Torchy Blane script was adapted into the 1939 film \"Private Detective\", also starring Jane Wyman. The only actor appearing in all nine Torchy Blane films was Tom Kennedy as Gahagan, McBride's slow-witted cop sidekick given to bursts of poetry.\n\nIn seven of the nine films featuring the character, Torchy Blane was played by Glenda Farrell. In her role as Torchy, Farrell was promoted as being able to speak 400 words in 40 seconds. On her portrayal of the character, Farrell said in her 1969 \"Time\" interview: \"So before I undertook to do the first Torchy, I determined to create a real human being—and not an exaggerated comedy type. I met those [news-women] who visited Hollywood and watched them work on visits to New York City. They were generally young, intelligent, refined and attractive. By making Torchy true to life, I tried to create a character practically unique in movies.\"\n\nSuperman co-creator Jerry Siegel credited Glenda Farrell's portrayal of Torchy Blane as the inspiration for the \"Daily Planet\" reporter Lois Lane and the name of actress Lola Lane as his inspiration for Lois' name. Joanne Siegel, Siegel's wife and the original model for Lois Lane, also cited Farrell's portrayal of Torchy as Siegel's inspiration for Lois.\n\nWarner Archive released a boxed set DVD collection featuring all nine Torchy Blane films on March 29, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "5127346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127346", "title": "Ulla Winblad", "text": "Ulla Winblad\n\nUlla Winblad was a semi-fictional character in many of Carl Michael Bellman's works. She is at once an idealised rococo goddess and a tavern prostitute, and a key figure in Bellman's songs of \"Fredman's Epistles\". The character was partly inspired by Maria Kristina Kiellström (1744-1798).\n\nPaul Britten Austin summarizes Ulla Winblad's dual nature: \n\n\"Fredman's Epistles\" are distinctive in combining realism - drink, poverty, gambling, prostitution, old age - with elegant mythological rococo flourishes, enabling Bellman to achieve both comic and elegiac effects. Britten Austin cites Afzelius:\n\nThe sluttiest of the barmaids \"on the rosiest mythological clouds\" is of course Ulla Winblad. In Epistle 36, (\"Concerning Ulla Winblad's flight\"), Bellman \"at his most rococo\" describes Ulla asleep in a tavern bedroom - while the owner peeps through the keyhole and three excited drunks wait outside. As she wakes, three rococo cupids assist her with make-up, perfume, and her hair. Then she runs into the bar, revives herself with a glass of brandy, and leaves with the blindest of the waiting fellows, \"leaving the inmates of the tavern, shaken, to contemplate \"Ulla's\" glass where she has left it, empty and broken on the bar.\"\n\nThe fictional Ulla Winblad and the real Maria Kristina Kiellström have frequently been confused, but were not at all the same. Kiellström, born in 1744 in a poor family, did borrow her stepmother's surname, Winblad (the name means \"vine-leaf\"). About 1763, she found a job in a silk factory. At the age of about twenty Kiellström became notorious for being made pregnant by a Swedish nobleman, Count Wilhelm Schildt. And in 1767, while without regular employment, she was accused of wearing a red silk cape, a banned luxury item: but unlike Ulla, she was acquitted. By 1770, Kiellström had moved out of the town centre; she and another girl, whose name was Ulla, were both officially recorded as being suspected by their landlord of \"loose living\".\n\nBellman met Kiellström in about 1769. Soon afterwards, he sang of Ulla Winblad for the first time in Fredman's Epistle number 25, entitled \"Which is an attempt at a pastoral in Bacchanalian taste, written on Ulla Winblad's crossing to Djurgården\". It begins with rococo \"angels, dolphins, zephyrs and the whole might of Paphos (compare the illustration of Boucher's \"Birth of Venus\") and musical flourishes on the horn (\"Corno\") and ends with Ulla as \"my nymph\" and the sentiment \"May love come into our lives\".\n\nBellman worked up the silk cape incident into the beautiful rococo Epistle 28, where Fredman sees a \"goddess\", elegantly dressed, with illegally flounced and frilled petticoats.\n\nKiellström married a customs officer, Eric Nordström, in 1772: Bellman found him his job. The couple lived very close to Bellman, and \"Norström\" too appears in the Epistles; a \"quarrelsome violent man\" and a drinker, he died in a police cell. Kiellström was still attractive enough to remarry at the age of 42; her second husband, 11 years younger than her, complained that she was \"generally and in printed songs known for passionate living.\"\n\nFredman's Epistle 71, \"the apogee, perhaps, of all that is typically \"bellmansk\"\" evokes the Swedish countryside at Djurgården in summertime, as Bellman imagines riding out of town and finding Ulla at her window. The song is called a Pastorale, and titled \"To Ulla at her window, Fisherman's Cottage, lunchtime, one summer's day\". It begins\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1275160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1275160", "title": "Wiener Werkstätte", "text": "Wiener Werkstätte\n\nThe Wiener Werkstätte (engl.: \"Vienna Workshop\"), established in 1903 by Koloman Moser and Josef Hoffmann, was a production community of visual artists in Vienna, Austria bringing together architects, artists and designers working in ceramics, fashion, silver, furniture and the graphic arts. It is regarded as a pioneer of modern design, and its influence can be seen in later styles such as Bauhaus and Art Deco.\n\nFollowing World War I, the workshop was beset by financial troubles and material shortages. Attempts to expand the workshop's base were unsuccessful, and ultimately it was forced to close in 1932.\n\nThe enterprise evolved from the Vienna Secession, founded in 1897 as a progressive alliance of artists and designers. From the start, the Secession had placed special emphasis on the applied arts, and its 1900 exhibition surveying the work of contemporary European design workshops prompted the young architect Josef Hoffmann and his artist friend Koloman Moser to consider establishing a similar enterprise.\nFinally in 1903, with backing from the industrialist Fritz Wärndorfer, the Wiener Werkstätte began operations in three small rooms; it soon expanded to fill a three-story building with separate, specially designed facilities for metalwork, leatherwork, bookbinding, woodworking and a paint shop. The range of product lines also included; leather goods, enamel, jewellery, postcards and ceramics. The Wiener Werkstätte even had a millinery department.\n\nBeginning with the 14th Exhibition of the Vienna Sezession in 1902, the radical distinctiveness of certain Viennese artists began to emerge, setting a foundation for the widespread Modernist movement; this became known as Wiener-Werkstätte-Stil (literally, the Vienna Workshops Style). Among the innovators was the Viennese architect Josef Hoffmann. His cubist sculpture created in 1902 marked a break into independence for many Viennese artists. His works from this period are especially remarkable when one considers that the term \"cubism\" only found its way into the art lexicon around 1907 to describe the work of Pablo Picasso.\n\nMost of the objects produced in the Wiener Werkstatte were stamped with a number of different marks: the trademark of the Wiener Werkstatte, the monogram of the designer and that of the craftsman, who created it. The Wiener Werkstatte had about 100 employees in 1905, of whom 37 were masters of their trade.\n\nThe seat of the venture was in Neustiftgasse 32–34, where a new building was adapted to their requirements. Eventually the project exhausted Wärndorfer's fortune. The circle of customers of the Wiener Werkstatte and Josef Hoffmann mainly consisted of artists and Jewish upper middle class supporters of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Several branches of the workshop were opened in Karlsbad 1909, Marienbad, Zürich 1916/17, New York 1922, Berlin 1929. \nIn architectural commissions such as the Sanatorium Purkersdorf and the Palais Stoclet in Brussels, the Wiener Werkstätte was able to realize its ideal of the Gesamtkunstwerk (total artwork), a coordinated environment in which everything down to the last detail was consciously designed as an integral part of the whole project.\n\nFor several years, beginning in 1904, the Wiener Werkstätte had its own carpentry workshop. Josef Hoffmann designed a furniture line noted for its simple forms for the firm of Jacob & Josef Kohn. But only few pieces of furniture were made there. Most of the furniture known as Wiener Werkstätte Furniture were made by cabinet-makers as: Portois & Fix, Johann Soulek, Anton Herrgesell, Anton Pospisil, Friedrich Otto Schmidt and Johann Niedermoser. Some historians now believe that there are no existing original products of the Wiener Werkstätte Furniture division. \n\nFrom 1905, the Wiener Werkstatte produced handpainted and printed silks. The Backhausen firm was responsible for the machine-printed and woven textiles. In 1907, the Wiener Werkstätte took over distribution for the Wiener Keramik, a ceramics workshop headed by Michael Powolny and Berthold Löffler. And in the same year Moser, embittered by the financial squabbling, left the Wiener Werkstätte, which subsequently entered a new phase, both stylistically and economically.\n\nThe founding of textile and fashion divisions in 1909 and 1910 brought a further shift in the Wiener Werkstätte's emphasis—away from the architectural and toward the ephemeral. After a close brush with bankruptcy in 1913, Wärndorfer left to America and the following year Otto Primavesi, a banker from Moravia, took over as chief financier and patron.\n\nDuring and immediately following the First World War the Wiener Werkstatte was influenced by a new generation of artists and craftsmen. It was Dagobert Peche whose ornamental, almost baroque fancies exerted the most palpable influence. \nAfter the war, material shortages encouraged experimentation with less durable, less expensive materials such as wood, ceramics and papier-mâché. One of the ceramics contributors was Walter Bosse. The original, grand Gesamtkunstwerk vision became diluted and submerged by the Kunstgewerbliches—the artsy-craftsy.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1920s, Philipp Hausler attempted to eliminate the \"bad habits\" and \"extravagances\" which devoured so much money by broadening the workshop's base. The WW artists, however, insisted upon their accustomed exclusivity, and Hausler left in 1925.\" Attempts to expand the workshop's scope—adding such items as wallpaper to its limited program of industrial licenses, and establishing branches in Berlin, New York and Zurich—were not particularly successful. The Werkstätte's financial situation grew desperate due to the effects of the war and the onset of the worldwide Depression in 1929. In the 1932 it was compelled to declare bankruptcy and closed.\n\nWith its avant-garde, artistic, yet timeless designs, the Wiener-Werkstaette-Stil influenced generations of architects and designers in the 20th century. The Bauhaus in Germany, Art Deco in America from 1920 to 1940, Scandinavian design from 1940-1960 (see for example Arne Jacobsen), as well as Italian design (see Mario Bellini) between 1960 and 1980, were all strongly influenced by the Wiener Werkstätte.\n\nA work representative is the Stoclet Palace in Brussels, which is considered a \"Gesamtkunstwerk\" of the company.\n\nThe chocolate company Altmann & Kühne uses many of the designs of the company for its chocolate boxes, as does Demel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
