{"id": "40170617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40170617", "title": "2013 New Brunswick python attack", "text": "2013 New Brunswick python attack\n\nAn African rock python killed two boys in Campbellton, New Brunswick, Canada on August 5, 2013. The boys, who were aged four and six, were sleeping in an apartment above their friend's father's pet store. The python – which had been in a specially made enclosure in the apartment – had escaped, crawled through an air duct, and fallen through a ceiling tile above where the boys were sleeping. Following the incident, the python was euthanized. The python's owner was charged with criminal negligence for not preventing the deaths, but was found not guilty in a jury trial in November 2016.\n\nThe African rock python is one of the five largest snake species in the world (along with the green anaconda, reticulated python, Burmese python and amethystine python). At least two other examples of humans killed by an African rock python have been reported. A ten-year-old boy was reportedly killed and swallowed in South Africa in 2002, and a three-year-old boy was reportedly strangled by a African rock python in Centralia, Illinois in 2000. A closely related species, a Burmese python, reportedly strangled a 28-year-old Brampton man in 1992.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said the python escaped from its enclosure in the apartment and entered the living room where the boys were sleeping via the ventilation system. The python was approximately long and weighed . The boys, ages 4 and 6, were brothers who were visiting their friend, whose father owned a pet shop below the apartment where they were staying.\n\nThe owner of the python – Jean-Claude Savoie – was interviewed by the Canadian network Global TV. According to the interview, the python was not in the pet store downstairs, but rather in a specially-built cage in the apartment upstairs. The python escaped from its enclosure through a hole in the ceiling, where a ventilation fan had been removed for maintenance. This gave the snake direct access to the air ducts in the ceiling, which then collapsed under the snake's weight above the living room. The air duct containing the snake crashed through the ceiling tiles and onto the boys, who were sleeping on a floor mattress located about eight feet from the snake's enclosure.\n\nSeveral experts expressed skepticism about the incident and said that such behaviour by this type of snake would be extremely unusual, although there have been some previous reports of deadly attacks on humans. According to the reports, the snake did not consume the bodies after strangling the brothers. This – together with the fact that more than one child was killed in a single incident and that the other occupants of the apartment were reportedly not awakened by the disturbance – prompted questions about the circumstances regarding the alleged attack. Reptilia zoo facilities manager Lee Parker said, \"They don't go on killing sprees. It doesn't make sense to me.\" Though these objections have been made, the possibility that the incident may be a homicide rather than an animal attack has been ruled out by the RCMP.\n\nCourt records revealed that the pet shop owner was found pacing outside of the store with blood on his hands and wearing shorts by police who first arrived on the scene. Contrary to prior reports, the store owner told arriving police that the snake was still unaccounted for, leaving one to speculate whether the blood belonged to the boys or was his own (due to being bitten by the \"enraged\" snake or cut by debris from the collapsed ceiling).\n\nKentucky Reptile Zoo director Jim Harrison stated that it was theoretically possible for the large python to have constricted around both boys at the same time, a theory supported by University of Texas professor, Neil Ford. Harrison also mentioned that since the boys handled a variety of farm animals (horses, llamas, goats, cats and dogs) earlier that day, they may have smelled like food to the snake.\n\nAlthough the pet shop was registered as a reptile zoo, police said that the province does not allow pythons and that the owner probably did not have the proper permits and authorization to keep the python under his care.\n\nThe python was euthanized by authorities.\nA coroner's preliminary autopsy report released on August 7 said that the boys died of asphyxiation.\n\nThe owner of the python and the mother of the two brothers had Facebook accounts that reporters used to obtain pictures. The two boys could be seen cleaning a large glass enclosure belonging to a green anaconda in pictures their mother posted on Facebook. This enclosure later held the African rock python that, unlike the green anaconda, was able to escape.\n\nMember of the Legislative Assembly Donald Arseneault expressed frustration in April 2014 that the province would not review New Brunswick's Fish and Wildlife Act until the RCMP investigation was completed. Minister of Natural Resources Paul Robichaud defended the delay, saying that the completed RCMP investigation would help inform a review of the current law.\n\nAlthough the incident was treated as an accident, the RCMP arrested Savoie in Montreal on February 5, 2015. On March 31, 2015, Savoie was charged with criminal negligence for not preventing the deaths. However, he was found not guilty in a jury trial in November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "8918557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8918557", "title": "Ambush predator", "text": "Ambush predator\n\nAmbush predators or sit-and-wait predators are carnivorous animals that capture or trap prey by stealth or by strategy (typically not conscious), rather than by speed or by strength. Ambush predators sit and wait for prey, often from a concealed position, and then launch a rapid surprise attack.\n\nThe ambush may be set by hiding in a burrow, by camouflage, by aggressive mimicry, or by the use of a trap. The predator then uses a combination of senses to assess the prey and to time the strike. Nocturnal ambush predators such as cats and snakes have vertical slit pupils, helping them to judge the distance to prey in dim light. Different ambush predators use a variety of means to capture their prey, from the long sticky tongues of chameleons to the expanding mouths of frogfishes.\n\nAmbush predation is widely distributed in the animal kingdom, spanning some members of numerous groups such as the starfish, cephalopods, crustaceans, spiders, insects such as mantises, and vertebrates such as many snakes and fishes.\n\nAmbush predators usually remain motionless (sometimes hidden) and wait for prey to come within ambush distance before pouncing. Ambush predators are often camouflaged, and may be solitary. Pursuit predation becomes a better strategy than ambush predation when the predator is faster than the prey. Ambush predators use many intermediate strategies. For example, when a pursuit predator is faster than its prey over a short distance, but not in a long chase, then either stalking or ambush becomes necessary as part of the strategy.\n\nAmbush often relies on concealment, whether by staying out of sight or by means of camouflage. \n\nAmbush predators such as trapdoor spiders on land and mantis shrimps in the sea rely on concealment, constructing and hiding in burrows. These provide effective concealment at the price of a restricted field of vision. \n\nTrapdoor spiders excavate a burrow and seal the entrance with a web trapdoor hinged on one side with silk. The most well-known door is the \"cork\"-type, which is thick and beveled to precisely fit the opening. The other is the \"wafer\"-type door, a simpler sheet of silk and dirt. The top of the door is usually camouflaged with bits of debris such as twigs and rock, making it very difficult to detect. The spider spins silk fishing lines, or trip wires, that radiate out of the burrow entrance. When the spider is using the trap to capture prey, its chelicerae hold the door shut on the end furthest from the hinge. The vibrations of passing prey are conducted by the silk and alert the spider whereupon it quickly throws open the door, ambushes the prey and returns with it down the tube.\n\nMany ambush predators make use of camouflage so that their prey can come within striking range without detecting their presence. Among fishes, the warteye stargazer (\"Gillellus uranidea\") buries itself nearly completely in the sand and waits for prey. The devil scorpionfish (\"Inimicus filamentosus\") typically lies partially buried on the sea floor or on a coral head during the day, covering itself with sand and other debris to further camouflage itself. The tasselled wobbegong is a shark whose adaptations as an ambush predator include a strongly flattened and camouflaged body with a fringe that breaks up its outline.\n\nMany ambush predators actively attract their prey towards them before ambushing them. These animals are often classified as aggressive mimics. The promise of nourishment as a way of attracting prey. The alligator snapping turtle (\"Macrochelys temminckii\") is a well-camouflaged ambush predator. Its tongue bears a conspicuous pink extension that resembles a worm and can be wriggled around; fish that try to eat the \"worm\" are themselves eaten by the turtle. Similarly, some snakes employ caudal luring (tail luring) to entice small vertebrates into striking range.\n\nThe zone-tailed hawk (\"Buteo albonotatus\"), which resembles the turkey vulture (\"Cathartes aura\"), flies among flocks of turkey vultures, then suddenly breaks from the formation and ambushes one of them as its prey. There is however some controversy about whether this is a true case of wolf in sheep's clothing mimicry.\n\nFlower mantises are aggressive mimics, resembling flowers convincingly enough to attract prey that come to collect pollen and nectar. The orchid mantis \"Hymenopus coronatus\" actually attracts its prey, pollinator insects, more effectively than flowers do. Crab spiders, similarly, are coloured like the flowers they habitually rest on, but again, they can lure their prey even away from flowers.\n\nSome ambush predators build traps to help capture their prey. Lacewings are a flying insect in the order Neuroptera. In some species, their larval form, known as the antlion, is an ambush predator. Eggs are laid in the earth, often in caves or under a rocky ledge. The juvenile creates a small, crater shaped trap. The antlion hides under a light cover of sand or earth. When an ant, beetle or other prey slides into the trap, the antlion grabs the prey with its powerful jaws.\n\nSome but not all web-spinning spiders are sit-and-wait ambush predators. The sheetweb spiders (Linyphiidae) tend to stay with their webs for long periods and so resemble sit-and-wait predators, whereas the orb-weaving spiders (such as the Araneidae) tend to move frequently from one patch to another (and thus resemble active foragers).\n\nAmbush predators must time their strike carefully. They need to detect the prey, assess it as worth attacking, and strike when it is in exactly the right place. They have evolved a variety of adaptations that facilitate this assessment. For example, pit vipers prey on small birds, choosing targets of the right size for their mouth gape: larger snakes choose larger prey. They prefer to strike prey that is both warm and moving; their pit organs between the eye and the nostril contain infrared (heat) receptors, enabling them to find and perhaps judge the size of their small, warm-blooded prey.\n\nThe deep-sea tripodfish \"Bathypterois grallator\" uses tactile and mechanosensory cues to identify food in its low-light environment. The fish faces into the current, waiting for prey to drift by. \n\nSeveral species of Felidae (cats) and snakes have vertically elongated (slit) pupils, advantageous for nocturnal ambush predators as it helps them to estimate the distance to prey in dim light; diurnal and pursuit predators in contrast have round pupils.\n\nAmbush predators often have adaptations for seizing their prey rapidly and securely. The capturing movement has to be rapid to trap the prey, given that the attack is not modifiable once launched. Zebra mantis shrimp (\"Lysiosquillina maculata\") capture agile prey such as fish primarily at night while hidden in burrows, striking very hard and fast (mean peak speed 2.30 m s–1 and mean duration 24.98 ms).\n\nChameleons (family Chamaeleonidae) are highly adapted as ambush predators. They can change colour to match their surroundings and often climb through trees with a swaying motion, probably to mimic the movement of the leaves and branches they are surrounded by. All chameleons are primarily insectivores and feed by ballistically projecting their tongues, often twice the length of their bodies, to capture prey. The tongue is projected in as little as 0.07 seconds, and is launched at an acceleration of over 41 \"g\". The power with which the tongue is launched, over 3000 W kg, is more than muscle can produce, indicating that energy is stored in an elastic tissue for sudden release.\n\nAll fishes face a basic problem when trying to swallow prey: opening their mouth may pull food in, but closing it will push the food out again. Frogfishes capture their prey by suddenly opening their jaws, with a mechanism which enlarges the volume of the mouth cavity up to 12-fold and pulls the prey (crustaceans, molluscs and other whole fishes) into the mouth along with water; the jaws close without reducing the volume of the mouth cavity. The attack can be as fast as 6 milliseconds,\n\nAmbush predation is widely distributed across the animal kingdom. It is found in many vertebrates including fishes such as the frogfishes (anglerfishes) of the sea bottom, and the pikes of freshwater; \nreptiles including crocodiles, snapping turtles, the mulga dragon, and many snakes such as the black mamba;\nmammals such as the cats; and birds such as the anhinga (darter). The strategy is found in several invertebrate phyla including arthropods such as mantises, purseweb spiders, and some crustaceans; cephalopod molluscs such as the colossal squid; and starfish such as \"Leptasterias tenera\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8010084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8010084", "title": "Andrew Carnegie Whitfield", "text": "Andrew Carnegie Whitfield\n\nAndrew Carnegie Whitfield (born 1910), the nephew of wealthy steel magnate Andrew Carnegie, mysteriously disappeared shortly after he departed from Roosevelt Field on Long Island, New York on the morning of April 17, 1938.\n\nWhitfield was a graduate of Princeton University and had been employed as a business executive. An amateur pilot, Whitfield owned a small red and silver Taylor Cub airplane which he occasionally flew (mostly for recreation). At the time of his disappearance, he had accumulated 200 hours of flying experience.\n\nWhen Whitfield departed in his small silver and red Taylor Cub monoplane, he had planned to land at an airfield in Brentwood, New York (approximately away). He was only supposed to be in the air for fifteen minutes, but Andrew never arrived as scheduled. One source reported that Whitfield's plane had been flying steadily—but then Whitfield \"nosed his plane into a mild easterly wind, [and] disappeared from sight.\"\n\nHis plane had enough fuel for a 150-mile flight. Neither Whitfield nor his plane has ever been recovered.\n\nAn investigation discovered that (on the same day he vanished) he had checked into a hotel in Garden City on Long Island under an alias he occasionally employed: \"Albert C. White.\" Hotel records indicated that Whitfield/White had paid $4 in advance for the room and never checked out. When the hotel room was searched, it was discovered that his personal belongings (including his passport), clothing, cuff links engraved with his initials, two life insurance policies (in his name listing his wife, Elizabeth Halsey Whitfield, as the beneficiary), and several stock and bond certificates made out in Andrew's and Elizabeth's names, were all left behind in the hotel room. Phone records also indicated that he had called his home while his family was out looking for him, and a telephone operator reported that she heard him say over the phone, \"Well, I am going to carry out my plan.\"\n\nPolice concluded that Whitfield had committed suicide by deliberately flying his plane into the Atlantic Ocean despite there being no evidence to substantiate this theory. Although a thorough search of the coastal areas surrounding Long Island was conducted, no plane wreckage was ever discovered. There was no evidence that at the time of Whitfield's disappearance he was having any personal or business problems. Whitfield had married (formerly Elizabeth Halsey) earlier that year and had been planning to move to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania (with his new wife) the same month that he disappeared.\n\n"}
{"id": "656192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=656192", "title": "Anthony, Duke of Brabant", "text": "Anthony, Duke of Brabant\n\nAnthony, Duke of Brabant, also known as Antoine de Brabant, Antoine de Bourgogne and Anthony of Burgundy (August 1384 – 25 October 1415, at the battle of Agincourt), was Count of Rethel (1402–1406), Duke of Brabant, Lothier and Limburg (1406–1415), and Co-Duke of Luxemburg (1411-1415). \n\nAnthony was the son of Philip II, Duke of Burgundy, and Margaret III, Countess of Flanders, and brother of John the Fearless. When his grandaunt Joanna died childless in 1406, Anthony inherited the Duchy of Brabant, Lothier, and Limburg, thus becoming the first Brabantian ruler of the House of Valois.\n\nThe Duke of Brabant arrived late to the Battle of Agincourt, and in his eagerness to reach the field, he dressed in improvised armour and wore a surcoat made from a trumpeter's flag. He fought valiantly but was captured by some English archers. He was executed along with the rest of the prisoners ordered by Henry V of England, the English being unaware of his high status and ransom value.\n\nThe execution was carried out as the much smaller English force found itself stretched to its limits, guarding prisoners with the battle still not won. A counterattack on the King's baggage train (guarded only by women and children) is thought to have driven King Henry to the decision, thinking he was being attacked from the rear and some chroniclers have given Brabant's belated charge as this very cause, adding to the Duke's chivalric but tragic final story (see \"Agincourt\", J. Barker 2005). Subsequently the executions stopped immediately the attack was seen to falter.\n\nHe married at Arras on 21 February 1402 Jeanne de St. Pol (d. 1407), daughter of Waleran III of Luxembourg, Count of Ligny and Saint-Pol. They had two children:\n\nHe married again at Brussels, on 16 July 1409, Elisabeth of Görlitz, duchess of Luxembourg (November 1390 – 8 August 1451), daughter of John, Duke of Görlitz. They had two children:\nHe also had two illegitimate daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "56119094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56119094", "title": "Ardys (general)", "text": "Ardys (general)\n\nArdys is known from the writings of the Greek historian Polybius. He was an experienced general who commanded the right wing of the army of Antiochus the Great in his battle against the Seleucid rebel Molon in 220 BCE. He distinguished himself in the next year in the siege of Seleucia Pieria.\n"}
{"id": "658223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658223", "title": "Autonomic computing", "text": "Autonomic computing\n\nAutonomic computing (also known as AC) refers to the self-managing characteristics of distributed computing resources, adapting to unpredictable changes while hiding intrinsic complexity to operators and users. Initiated by IBM in 2001, this initiative ultimately aimed to develop computer systems capable of self-management, to overcome the rapidly growing complexity of computing systems management, and to reduce the barrier that complexity poses to further growth.\n\nThe AC system concept is designed to make adaptive decisions, using high-level policies. It will constantly check and optimize its status and automatically adapt itself to changing conditions. An autonomic computing framework is composed of autonomic components (AC) interacting with each other. An AC can be modeled in terms of two main control schemes (local and global) with sensors (for self-monitoring), effectors (for self-adjustment), knowledge and planner/adapter for exploiting policies based on self- and environment awareness. This architecture is sometimes referred to as Monitor-Analyze-Plan-Execute (MAPE).\n\nDriven by such vision, a variety of architectural frameworks based on \"self-regulating\" autonomic components has been recently proposed. A very similar trend has recently characterized significant research in the area of multi-agent systems. However, most of these approaches are typically conceived with centralized or cluster-based server architectures in mind and mostly address the need of reducing management costs rather than the need of enabling complex software systems or providing innovative services. Some autonomic systems involve mobile agents interacting via loosely coupled communication mechanisms.\n\n\"Autonomy-oriented computation\" is a paradigm proposed by Jiming Liu in 2001 that uses artificial systems imitating social animals' collective behaviours to solve difficult computational problems. For example, ant colony optimization could be studied in this paradigm.\n\nForecasts suggest that the computing devices in use will grow at 38% per year and the average complexity of each device is increasing. Currently, this volume and complexity is managed by highly skilled humans; but the demand for skilled IT personnel is already outstripping supply, with labour costs exceeding equipment costs by a ratio of up to 18:1. Computing systems have brought great benefits of speed and automation but there is now an overwhelming economic need to automate their maintenance.\n\nIn a 2003 IEEE \"Computer Magazine\" article, Kephart and Chess \nwarn that the dream of interconnectivity of computing systems and devices could become the “nightmare of pervasive computing” in which architects are unable to anticipate, design and maintain the complexity of interactions. They state the essence of autonomic computing is system self-management, freeing administrators from low-level task management while delivering better system behavior.\n\nA general problem of modern distributed computing systems is that their complexity, and in particular the complexity of their management, is becoming a significant limiting factor in their further development. Large companies and institutions are employing large-scale computer networks for communication and computation. The distributed applications running on these computer networks are diverse and deal with many tasks, ranging from internal control processes to presenting web content to customer support.\n\nAdditionally, mobile computing is pervading these networks at an increasing speed: employees need to communicate with their companies while they are not in their office. They do so by using laptops, personal digital assistants, or mobile phones with diverse forms of wireless technologies to access their companies' data.\n\nThis creates an enormous complexity in the overall computer network which is hard to control manually by human operators. Manual control is time-consuming, expensive, and error-prone. The manual effort needed to control a growing networked computer-system tends to increase very quickly.\n\n80% of such problems in infrastructure happen at the client specific application and database layer. Most 'autonomic' service providers guarantee only up to the basic plumbing layer (power, hardware, operating system, network and basic database parameters).\n\nA possible solution could be to enable modern, networked computing systems to manage themselves without direct human intervention. The \"Autonomic Computing Initiative\" (ACI) aims at providing the foundation for autonomic systems. It is inspired by the autonomic nervous system of the human body. This nervous system controls important bodily functions (e.g. respiration, heart rate, and blood pressure) without any conscious intervention.\n\nIn a self-managing autonomic system, the human operator takes on a new role: instead of controlling the system directly, he/she defines general policies and rules that guide the self-management process. For this process, IBM defined the following four types of property referred to as self-star (also called self-*, self-x, or auto-*) properties. \n\nOthers such as Poslad and Nami and Bertel have expanded on the set of self-star as follows:\n\nIBM has set forth eight conditions that define an autonomic system:\n\nThe system must\n\nEven though the purpose and thus the behaviour of autonomic systems vary from system to system, every autonomic system should be able to exhibit a minimum set of properties to achieve its purpose:\n\n\nIBM defined five evolutionary levels, or the \"autonomic deployment model\", for the deployment of autonomic systems:\n\nThe design complexity of Autonomic Systems can be simplified by utilizing design patterns such as the model-view-controller (MVC) pattern to improve concern separation by encapsulating functional concerns.\n\nA basic concept that will be applied in Autonomic Systems are closed control loops. This well-known concept stems from Process Control Theory. Essentially, a closed control loop in a self-managing system monitors some resource (software or hardware component) and autonomously tries to keep its parameters within a desired range.\n\nAccording to IBM, hundreds or even thousands of these control loops are expected to work in a large-scale self-managing computer system.\n\nA fundamental building block of an autonomic system is the sensing capability (\"Sensors S\"), which enables the system to observe its external operational context. Inherent to an autonomic system is the knowledge of the \"Purpose\" (intention) and the \"Know-how\" to operate itself (e.g., bootstrapping, configuration knowledge, interpretation of sensory data, etc.) without external intervention. The actual operation of the autonomic system is dictated by the \"Logic\", which is responsible for making the right decisions to serve its \"Purpose\", and influence by the observation of the operational context (based on the sensor input).\n\nThis model highlights the fact that the operation of an autonomic system is purpose-driven. This includes its mission (e.g., the service it is supposed to offer), the policies (e.g., that define the basic behaviour), and the “survival instinct”. If seen as a control system this would be encoded as a feedback error function or in a heuristically assisted system as an algorithm combined with set of heuristics bounding its operational space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13959574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13959574", "title": "Bask", "text": "Bask\n\nBask, (1956–1979) bred at the Albigowa State Stud in Poland and foaled in 1956, was a bay Arabian stallion who was imported into the United States in 1963 by Dr. Eugene LaCroix of Lasma Arabians and became a major sire of significance in the Arabian breed.\n\nBask's sire was Witraz, by the famed Ofir, who also sired Witez II. His dam was Balalajka, a daughter of Amurath-Sahib, deemed one of Poland's finest broodmares. He was sent to the race track, as it was typical in the time for horses to be sent to race as three-year-olds in order to determine the horse's athletic ability and soundness. In 1961, Albigowa ceased breeding Arabians, so after his horse racing career, Bask was sent to the Janow Podlaski stud.\n\nBask was a member of a \"family\" of considerable significance. All but one of Balalajka's progeny were by Witraz, and hence full siblings to Bask. His full sister Arfa was the dam of Argos, who was an important sire in Great Britain for Patricia Lindsay. His full sister Bandola was a mare of significance known as \"the Queen of Poland\", and was the dam of Bandos, by Negatiw. Bask's 3/4 sister Bachantka (by Wielki Szlem) had been imported to the United States in 1961 by Varian Arabians, where she was a Top Ten champion and major foundation mare for the Varian program.\n\nBask's name was chosen by Roman Pankiewicz, who was deputy manager of Albigowa at the time. Pankiewicz stated, \"I always tried to give horses short, nice names, easy to translate – because their export had already begun in those times. And Bask [in Polish] is a courageous inhabitant of the Basque Country in Spain...the Basques are hard-working people. And so the horse became Bask. That name suited him like no other.\"\n\nHaving raced extensively in Poland, (4/40, 8/7/7) Bask was not evaluated as breeding stock until he was six. He never was put to stud in Poland, because the Janów Podlaski stud already stood a number of Witraz sons. For this reason, the Poles were also willing to sell him. He was actually scheduled to be gelded upon his return from the track, but instead was purchased for the relatively modest sum of $3000 by Dr. LaCroix, who initially intended to resell him to a Swedish breeder, but when that sale fell through, took the horse to America.\n\nUpon arrival in the United States, after a very rough journey by ship, Bask was put to stud and retrained for the show ring. Bask earned his Legion of Merit from the International Arabian Horse Association (now Arabian Horse Association), and was the 1964 United States National Champion Halter stallion and the 1965 United States National Park horse Champion, one of only four Arabian stallions to ever win national championships in both halter and performance. He was also 1967 reserve national champion in the harness driving equivalent of park, formal driving. He is the only horse to have ever won dual national championships in halter and park.\n\nBask sired 1050 purebred Arabian foals, most in the time before artificial insemination was widespread in the horse industry, and 196 of these were United States or Canadian National Champions. His impact on American Arabian horse breeding has been described as \"colossal\".\n\nBask died on July 24, 1979 from colic. His body is now interred at the Kentucky Horse Park in its Champions Cemetery, and he is honored with a bronze statue in the lobby of the International Museum of the Horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "57044227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57044227", "title": "Boleslaus, son of Děpolt", "text": "Boleslaus, son of Děpolt\n\nBoleslaus, son of Děpolt (Czech: Boleslav Děpoltovic) (1182 or 1183 – April 9 1241 at Battle of Legnica) also known as \"Szepiołka\" was a Moravian Prince. He was the son of Děpolt III, and brother to Děpolt IV, Soběslav I, and Otto of the (a cadet branch of the Přemyslid dynasty). He died as a childless bachelor. \nIn 1202, he was banished by the king Ottokar I of Bohemia, and he later returned in 1204. For the second time he was exiled in 1233 or 1234 by the king Wenceslaus I of Bohemia. At that time, he went to the court Henryk I Brodaty in Poland. \n\nSome Polish medieval chronicles referred to him as the \"Margrave of Moravia\" but this title had no merit because Bohemia and Moravia were ruled at that time jointly by one king, Wenceslaus I of Bohemia. Boleslaus styled himself as \"Dux Boemiae\" (\"Duke of Bohemia\"). \n\nHe commanded volunteer Bavarian miners from Goldberg (Złotoryja) and a Moravian detachment at the Battle of Legnica, alongside the Poles. During the battle he was shot by an arrow hitting below his ear.\n"}
{"id": "17775573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17775573", "title": "Capital punishment in Liechtenstein", "text": "Capital punishment in Liechtenstein\n\nCapital punishment has been completely abolished in Liechtenstein. It was abolished for murder in 1987 and for treason in 1989.\n\nThe last death sentence was pronounced in 1977, when a 42-year-old man was sentenced to be hanged for the 1976 murders of his wife and two children; the sentence was later commuted by Franz Josef II to fifteen years' imprisonment. \n\nThe last execution occurred in 1785, when a 41-year-old homeless woman from Altenstadt in Feldkirch was beheaded with an axe for burglary and theft.\n"}
{"id": "51172566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51172566", "title": "Cleopatra Tawo", "text": "Cleopatra Tawo\n\nCleopatra Tawo, known more commonly as Cleo Tao (died 1 December 2017) was a radio host at Planet FM 101.1 in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria. She was the host of the radio shows \"DayBreak on Planet\" and \"AutoMania\". Before joining Planet FM, Tawo worked at Rhythm FM 93.7 in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, where she hosted shows such as \"Morning Drive\", \"Afternoon Drive\", \"Sunday at the Rhythm\" and \"Midnight Caller\".\n\nTawo was raised in Port Harcourt, the capital of Rivers State, Nigeria. She grew up in a Catholic family originally from Boki, though her parents were enlightened liberals who encouraged entertainment in their home.\n\nTawo was trained as a lawyer before venturing into radio broadcasting in 2000. Her first professional employment as a radio host was at Silverbird's Rhythm FM 93.7 in Port Harcourt. There, she hosted several shows including \"Morning Drive\", \"Afternoon Drive\", \"Sunday at the Rhythm\" and \"Midnight Caller\". She was later employed at Planet FM 101.1 Uyo, where she hosted shows like \"Daybreak on Planet\" and \"AutoMania\". Tawo was also the station's Head Of Programmes.\n\nOn 19 December 2005, she was arrested along with colleague Klem Ofuokwu by agents of the State Security Service (SSS). They were charged with airing fabricated news about a bridge failure on Rhythm 93.7 FM Port Harcourt. Rivers State Attorney General Henry Ajumogobia withdrew the charges on 2 February 2006. They had been detained for two weeks before being released on bail.\n\nDuring late November 2017, Tawo began suffering from a respiratory illness and was admitted to a hospital. On 1 December 2017, she died at the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital. Tawo was admitted to UUTH's emergency intensive care unit. Prior to her demise, she had posted a status update on her facebook account that \"[she] had a respiratory challenge, I’m responding to treatment. I’ll be out soon. Thnx for your kind prayers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35512549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35512549", "title": "Complicated grief disorder", "text": "Complicated grief disorder\n\nIn psychiatry, complicated grief disorder (CGD) is a proposed disorder for those who are significantly and functionally impaired by prolonged grief symptoms for at least one month after six months of bereavement. It is distinguished from non-impairing grief and other disorders (such as major depressive disorder and posttraumatic stress disorder). This disorder has been reviewed by the DSM-5 work groups, who have decided that it be called Persistent complex bereavement disorder and placed it in the chapter on Conditions for Further Study in the new DSM-5.\n\nComplicated grief is considered when an individual’s ability to resume normal activities and responsibilities is continually disrupted beyond six months of bereavement. Six months is considered to be the appropriate point of CGD consideration, since studies show that most people are able to integrate bereavement into their lives by this time.\n\nThe symptoms of complicated grief are mentioned in the most-recently proposed diagnostic criteria; they include maladaptive thoughts and behaviors related to the death or the deceased, continuous emotional dysregulation about the death, social isolation and suicidal ideation.\n\nAlthough more research is needed to determine the multiple pathways to complicated grief disorder, preexisting conditions (such as major depression, PTSD, and sleep disorders) are thought to exacerbate the interruption of the natural healing process.\n\nThere are some known predictive characteristics for CGD. An individual is at increased risk for CGD if they are:\n\nUntreated CGD has clinically significant consequences. A high level of impairment can be pervasive, including destructive thoughts and behaviors (such as substance abuse). CGD may worsen the course of preexisting disorders and contribute to the development of new ones.\n\nAccording to Shear et al. (2011):\n\nCGD is an atypical grief response, occurring only in a minority of the bereaved population. It is considered more common in those experiencing disasters, violence or the loss of a child.\n\nIt has also been found in family members (or friends) of:\n\nCGD is found to be prevalent cross-culturally in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia.\n\nCGD is relatively unresponsive to antidepressants or interpersonal psychotherapy; however, recent studies support the use of CG-targeted psychotherapy (similar to PTSD-targeted psychotherapy). Other methods of psycho-pharmacological treatment are under investigation.\n\nAlthough the DSM-5 work groups have suggested using \"adjustment disorder, specified as bereavement-related\" to diagnose complicated grief, opposing opinions contend that this does not fit the nature of CGD and is an inappropriate diagnosis for those suffering from CGD.\n\nFollowing the DSM-5 work groups’ recommendation to remove the bereavement-exclusionary criteria, there is some concern that the addition of CGD may increase the possibility of medicalizing the grieving process. However, proponents of CGD claim that with proper clinical assessment only those with abnormally incapacitating levels of grief will receive this diagnosis and benefit from treatment. Furthermore, despite the possibility of diagnosis-related stigma the clinical necessity for treatment is a priority for those suffering from CGD.\n\nAn individual’s culture plays a large role in determining an inappropriate pattern of grief, and it is necessary to consider cultural norms before reaching a CGD diagnosis. There are cultural differences in expected emotional levels, their expression and duration; the external symptoms of grief differ in non-Western cultures, presenting increased somatization.\n\n\nTafà, M., Cerniglia, L., Cimino, S., Ballarotto, G., Marzilli, E., & Tambelli, R. (2018). Predictive values of early parental loss and psychopathological risk for physical problems in early adolescents. Frontiers in psychology, 9.\n\n"}
{"id": "18504221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18504221", "title": "Compression of morbidity", "text": "Compression of morbidity\n\nThe compression of morbidity in public health is a hypothesis put forth by James Fries, professor of medicine at Stanford University School of Medicine. The hypothesis was supported by a 1998 study of 1700 University of Pennsylvania alumni over a period of 20 years.\n\nFries' hypothesis is that the burden of lifetime illness may be compressed into a shorter period before the time of death, if the age of onset of the first chronic infirmity can be postponed. This hypothesis contrasts to the view that as the age of countries' populations tends to increase over time, they will become increasingly infirm and consume an ever-larger proportion of the national budget in healthcare costs.\n\nFries posited that if the hypothesis is confirmed, healthcare costs and patient health overall will be improved. In order to confirm this hypothesis, the evidence must show that it is possible to delay the onset of infirmity, and that corresponding increases in longevity will at least be modest. The evidence is at best mixed. Vincent Mor's \"The Compression of Morbidity Hypothesis: A Review of Research and Prospects for the Future\" argues that \"Cross-national evidence for the validity of the compression of morbidity hypothesis originally proposed by Fries is generally accepted. Generational improvements in education and the increased availability of adaptive technologies and even medical treatments that enhance quality of life have facilitated continued independence of older persons in the industrialized world. Whether this trend continues may depend upon the effect of the obesity epidemic on the next generation of older people.\" See also \"Mortality and Morbidity Trends: Is There Compression of Morbidity?\" for recent evidence against the hypothesis. \nThere may also be age versus cohort effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30582905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30582905", "title": "Death and state funeral of Leonid Brezhnev", "text": "Death and state funeral of Leonid Brezhnev\n\nOn 10 November 1982, Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev, the third General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) and the fifth leader of the Soviet Union, died aged 75, a month before his 76th birthday after suffering a heart attack following years of serious ailments. His death was officially acknowledged on 11 November simultaneously by Soviet radio and television. After five days of national mourning, Brezhnev was given a state funeral and then buried in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis. Yuri Andropov, Brezhnev's eventual successor as general secretary, was chairman of the committee in charge of managing Brezhnev's funeral, held on 15 November 1982, five days after his death.\n\nThe funeral was attended by 32 heads of state, 15 heads of government, 14 foreign ministers and four princes; U.S. President Ronald Reagan sent George H. W. Bush, the Vice President of the United States. Eulogies were delivered by Yuri Andropov, Dmitriy Ustinov, Anatoly Alexandrov, and a factory worker.\n\nBrezhnev had struggled with several ailments since 1974, most notably heart disease, leukemia, jaw cancer, emphysema and circulatory disease, all of which had been exacerbated by his heavy smoking and obesity. There had been rumours of Brezhnev's death ever since the mid-1970s; he had been absent from important meetings demanded by protocol and it was rumoured that his health was in decline. Brezhnev had rarely appeared in public for most of 1982 and was usually surrounded by doctors, although the Soviet Government insisted that he was not ill. He suffered a severe stroke in May 1982, but refused to relinquish office until he died on 10 November 1982 after suffering a heart attack. He was honored with a state funeral in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis on the Red Square after a five-day period of nationwide mourning.\n\nThe first hint of his death to the Soviet people came at 7:15 p.m. Moscow Time, when the usual television programs were altered and a pop music concert was replaced by a documentary on Vladimir Lenin. On \"Vremya\", the Soviet Union's state television newscast, the hosts wore somber clothes instead of their normally informal dress code. At first, Soviet citizens believed it was Andrei Kirilenko who had died, as he had not been present at the 65th anniversary of the October Revolution a few days earlier (he died in 1990). Furthermore, other abrupt changes to the television line-up occurred, such as the appearance of an unscheduled program of war reminiscences and the replacement of an ice hockey game on Channel Two with Tchaikovsky's \"Pathétique\" symphony. Brezhnev's death was announced on 11 November simultaneously by Soviet radio and television hosts. The television announcement was read by Igor Kirillov with tears in his eyes at 11 a.m. Moscow Time.\n\nFirst World commentators had already speculated that Brezhnev had died when he failed to sign a message of congratulations to José Eduardo dos Santos, the President of Angola, for the Angolan Independence Day. This was a breach of protocol, and, as Brezhnev had earlier signed messages to all Soviet-aligned heads of state, the absence of his signature was seen as suspicious. The delay in declaring the death of Brezhnev was seen by some First World commentators as proof of the ongoing power struggle in the Soviet leadership over who would succeed him. Konstantin Chernenko was seen as the most likely candidate to succeed Brezhnev.\n\nOn 11 November Yuri Andropov was elected chairman of the committee in charge of managing Brezhnev's funeral. This election marked the beginning of Brezhnev's funeral. The occasion was seen as a sign by First World commentators that Andropov was the most likely candidate for the position of general secretary.\n\nDuring the funerals of Soviet leaders there was a custom of displaying their decorations on velvet cushions, which were carried in the procession behind the coffin. This task was traditionally given to an escort of senior officers, each carrying a cushion with one decoration on it. However, as Brezhnev had more than two hundred decorations, several were placed on each cushion. Brezhnev's funeral officer escort ultimately included forty-four persons.\n\nGalina Brezhneva, Brezhnev's disgraced daughter, was constantly followed by two burly guards. Andropov, Brezhnev's successor as general secretary, embraced Viktoria Brezhneva but allegedly turned his back to Galina. This claim has been disputed, with a \"Time\" article dating back to 1982 claiming that Andropov embraced both, and not just Viktoria. Even so, during Andropov's fifteen-month rule Galina stopped appearing in public. At the funeral, Andropov praised Brezhnev for his \"struggle for the relaxation of international tensions and for delivering mankind from the threat of nuclear war\" and his détente policy. Andrei Kirilenko, a leading Politburo member, burst into tears when confronting Viktoria at the funeral.\n\nThe Moscow \"militsiya\" sealed off downtown Moscow during the funeral on 15 November. Large avenues were tightly guarded by the police and the Moscow military garrison. The soldiers, who stood in front of the House of the Unions, wore black-edged red armbands. The House of the Unions was decorated by numerous red flags and other communist symbols. Brezhnev's body lay in state for three days at the House of the Unions. On the third day the coffin was placed on an artillery carriage towed by an olive-green BRDM-2 armored vehicle of the Red Army—led by dozens of wreaths as well as Brezhnev's decorations carried by Soviet military personnel and other mourners—to the Lenin Mausoleum on the Red Square, where it was greeted by speeches by Andropov; Minister of Defence Dmitriy Ustinov; Anatoly Alexandrov, the President of the Academy of Sciences; and a factory worker. After the speeches, pallbearers, led by Andropov and Nikolai Tikhonov, Chairman of the Council of Ministers, carried the coffin to another location close to the mausoleum. It was here that Brezhnev's family made their farewell. Before the body was laid to rest Viktoria kissed Brezhnev on the face in accordance with Russian traditions. As Brezhnev's body was lowered into the grave a military squad saluted while an orchestra played the Soviet national anthem. According to \"Time\" magazine Brezhnev's death was mourned by the majority of Soviets.\n\nBrezhnev's body reportedly sustained two falls. As the coffin was lifted into place for the lying in state at the Column Hall of the House of the Unions, Brezhnev's body fell through the bottom. After that, a new, metal-plated coffin was made, and as it was lowered into the grave, the funeral servants could not handle its weight and the coffin fell with a loud crash into the grave hole. This account, however, was contested by Georgy Kovalenko, one of the funeral servants—according to him, twenty minutes before the deposition of the coffin he was asked by the Kremlin custodian Semyon Shornikov to lower the coffin simultaneously with the chime of bells.\n\nThe funeral was attended by 32 heads of state, 15 heads of government, 14 foreign ministers and four princes. Among the foreign dignitaries to attend the funeral were President and General Secretary Heng Samrin of Kampuchea, Prime Minister Pierre Mauroy of France, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, President Babrak Karmal of Afghanistan, President Fidel Castro of Cuba, Foreign Minister Huang Hua of China, Yasser Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization, First Secretary and Prime Minister Wojciech Jaruzelski of Poland, President Mengistu Haile Mariam of Ethiopia, President Moussa Traoré of Mali, State Chairman and General Secretary Erich Honecker of East Germany, President Nicolae Ceaușescu of Romania and President Hafez al-Assad of Syria, among others. Assad declared seven days of mourning in Syria when Brezhnev's death was announced. Also in attendance was Pierre Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada, who brought along his son and future Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Ronald Reagan, the President of the United States, did not attend but sent a delegation headed by Vice President George H. W. Bush. Secretary of State George Shultz, Central Intelligence Agency Director William Casey and National Security Advisor William P. Clark tried to persuade Reagan to attend the funeral. Reagan rejected the idea; furthermore, he stated that he had no intention to alter US policy towards the Soviet Union because of Brezhnev's death.\n\nAmong notable condolences was one from Ronald Reagan, the President of the United States, who woke up at 3:35 a.m. to write a two-paragraph message about Brezhnev. Reagan called Brezhnev \"one of the world's most important figures for nearly two decades\" and expressed hopes for the improvement of Soviet–US relations. Pope John Paul II promised \"a particular thought for the memory of the illustrious departed one\", while former West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt said Brezhnev's death would \"be painfully felt\". The government of the People's Republic of China (PRC) expressed \"deep condolences\" and Indira Gandhi, the Prime Minister of India, said \"he [Brezhnev] stood by us in our moment of need\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22625701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22625701", "title": "European Calcium Society", "text": "European Calcium Society\n\nThe European Calcium Society is a non-profit society that aims to develop relationships between different generations of scientists in Europe working in the field of calcium signaling and the proteins involved in the Calcium Toolkit.\n\nThe First European Symposium took place in 1989 and covered calcium binding proteins in normal and transformed cells. The symposium resulted from a 30 month gestation.\n\nThe symposium filled a gap given the lack of European fora in which young European researchers could participate (the International Symposium was held in Asilomar, CA 1986, in Nagoya in 1988, in Banff, Canada, etc.)\n\nA European Union grant called Stimulation Action was awarded to Roland Pochet in November 1986. Long discussions in 1988 between Pochet and Jacques Haiech at Mont Sainte-Odile who pointed out the importance of European researchers in calcium binding proteins (Hamoir, Liége,1955, Pechere, Montpellier, 1965, Drabikowski, Varsovie, 1970) and the strong support received from Claus Heizmann.\n\n1997 was important because the “European Calcium Society” was registered under E.U. guidelines, which had earlier rejected a proposal to finance the fourth symposium because of lack of structure. In 1997 they created the group's first ECS Web site, logo, newsletter and a set of statutes published in the “Moniteur belge” as an “Arrêté Royal du 22 septembre 1997” signed by King Albert II.\n\n1998-2005 was a consolidation period. Since 2000, ECS has been selected as an EU High-level Scientific Conference allowing it to offer grants to young European researchers. The board was enlarged to include Volker Gerke and Steve Moss. ECS provided posters, prizes and recently special grants for young researchers.\n\nSince its creation, 30 to 35% of the participants at ECS symposia were young researchers (below 35 years old). Encouraging young researchers to participate has always been one of the main objectives.\n\nSince 1992 Heizmann has sponsored the publication of significant articles in the scientific journal Biochimica et Biophysica Acta. A newsletter is also produced twice a year (May and November).\n\nIn 2007, ECS launched its first workshop, in Ariège (France). The second took place in June 2009 in Smolenice (Slovakia).\n"}
{"id": "38255399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38255399", "title": "Exposome", "text": "Exposome\n\nThe exposome encompasses the totality of human environmental (i.e. non-genetic) exposures from conception onwards, complementing the genome, first proposed in 2005 by a cancer epidemiologist. As of 2016 it may not be possible to measure or model.\n\nThe exposome was first proposed in 2005 by cancer epidemiologist Christopher Paul Wild in an article entitled \"Complementing the genome with an \"exposome\": the outstanding challenge of environmental exposure measurement in molecular epidemiology\". The concept of the exposome and how to assess it has led to lively discussions with varied views in 2010,2012, and 2014, \n\nIn his 2005 article, Wild stated, \"At its most complete, the exposome encompasses life-course environmental exposures (including lifestyle factors), from the prenatal period onwards.\" The concept was first proposed to draw attention to the need for better and more complete environmental exposure data for causal research, in order to balance the investment in genetics. According to Wild, even incomplete versions of the exposome could be useful to epidemiology. In 2012, Wild outlined methods, including personal sensors, biomarkers, and 'omics' technologies, to better define the exposome. He described three overlapping domains within the exposome:\nIn late 2013, this definition was explained in greater depth in the first book on the exposome. \nIn 2014, the same author revised the definition to include the body's response with its endogenous metabolic processes which alter the processing of chemicals.\n\nFor complex disorders, specific genetic causes appear to account for only 10-30% of the disease incidence, but there has been no standard or systematic way to measure the influence of environmental exposures. Some studies into the interaction of genetic and environmental factors in the incidence of diabetes have demonstrated that \"environment-wide association studies\" (EWAS, or exposome-wide association studies) may be feasible. However, it is not clear what data sets are most appropriate to represent the value of \"E\".\n\nAs of 2016, it may not be possible to measure or model the full exposome, but several European projects have started to make first attempts.\nIn 2012, the European Commission awarded two large grants to pursue exposome-related research.\n\nThe HELIX project at the Barcelona-based Centre for Research in Environmental Epidemiology was launched around 2014, and aimed to develop an early-life exposome.\nA second project, Exposomics, based at Imperial College London, launched in 2012, aimed to use smartphones utilizine GPS and environmental sensors to assess exposures. \nIn late 2013, a major initiative called the \"Health and Environment-Wide Associations based on Large Scale population Surveys\" or HEALS, began. Touted as the largest environmental health-related study in Europe, HEALS proposes to adopt a paradigm defined by interactions between DNA sequence, epigenetic DNA modifications, gene expression, and environmental factors.\n\nIn December 2011, the US National Academy of Sciences hosted a meeting entitled \"Emerging Technologies for Measuring Individual Exposomes.\" A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention overview, \"Exposome and Exposomics\", outlines the three priority areas for researching the occupational exposome as identified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) has invested in technologies supporting exposome-related research including biosensors, and supports research on gene-environment interactions.\n\nThe idea of a Human Exposome Project, analogous to the Human Genome Project, has been proposed and discussed in numerous scientific meetings, but as of 2017, no such project exists. Given the lack of clarity on how science would go about pursuing such a project, support has been lacking. Reports on the issue include:\n\n\nThe concept of the exposome has contributed to the 2010 proposal of a new paradigm in disease phenotype, \"the unique disease principle\": Every individual has a unique disease process different from any other individual, considering uniqueness of the exposome and its unique influence on molecular pathologic processes including alterations in the interactome. This principle was first described in neoplastic diseases as \"the unique tumor principle\". Based on this unique disease principle, the interdisciplinary field of molecular pathological epidemiology (MPE) integrates molecular pathology and epidemiology.\n\n"}
{"id": "10871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10871", "title": "FM-2030", "text": "FM-2030\n\nFM-2030 (October 15, 1930 – July 8, 2000) was a Belgian-born Iranian-American author, teacher, transhumanist philosopher, futurist, consultant and athlete. FM-2030 was born Fereidoun M. Esfandiary ().\n\nHe became notable as a transhumanist with the book \"Are You a Transhuman?: Monitoring and Stimulating Your Personal Rate of Growth in a Rapidly Changing World\", published in 1989. In addition, he wrote a number of works of fiction under his original name F.M. Esfandiary.\n\nThe son of an Iranian diplomat, he travelled widely as a child, living in 17 countries by age 11; then, as a young man, he represented Iran as a basketball player at the 1948 Olympic Games in London and served on the United Nations Conciliation Commission for Palestine from 1952 to 1954.\n\nIn the mid-1970s F.M. Esfandiary legally changed his name to FM-2030 for two main reasons. Firstly, to reflect the hope and belief that he would live to celebrate his 100th birthday in 2030; secondly, and more importantly, to break free of the widespread practice of naming conventions that he saw as rooted in a collectivist mentality, and existing only as a relic of humankind's tribalistic past. He viewed traditional names as almost always stamping a label of collective identity—varying from gender to nationality—on the individual, thereby existing as prima facie elements of thought processes in the human cultural fabric, that tended to degenerate into stereotyping, factionalism, and discrimination. In his own words, \"Conventional names define a person's past: ancestry, ethnicity, nationality, religion. I am not who I was ten years ago and certainly not who I will be in twenty years. [...] The name 2030 reflects my conviction that the years around 2030 will be a magical time. In 2030 we will be ageless and everyone will have an excellent chance to live forever. 2030 is a dream and a goal.\"\n\nHe was a lifelong vegetarian and said he would not eat anything that had a mother. FM-2030 once said, \"I am a 21st century person who was accidentally launched in the 20th. I have a deep nostalgia for the future.\" He taught at The New School, University of California, Los Angeles, and Florida International University. He worked as a corporate consultant for Lockheed and J. C. Penney. He was also an atheist.\n\nOn July 8, 2000, FM-2030 died from pancreatic cancer and was placed in cryonic suspension at the Alcor Life Extension Foundation in Scottsdale, Arizona, where his body remains today. He did not yet have remote standby arrangements, so no Alcor team member was present at his death, but FM-2030 was the first person to be vitrified, rather than simply frozen as previous cryonics patients had been. FM-2030 was survived by four sisters and one brother.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58917920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58917920", "title": "Farid Ahmedov", "text": "Farid Ahmedov\n\nFarid Ahmedov () (19 January 1986, Jalilabad District, Azerbaijan – 4 September 2010, Tartar District, Azerbaijan) was an Azerbaijani officer. He was posthumously awarded For Heroism Medal. \n\nFarid Ahmedov was born on 19 January 1986 in the Jalilabad District of Azerbaijan. In 2013 he was graduated from Secondary School No. 1 named after Nizami Ganjavi. Meanwhile, he was admitted to the Azerbaijan High Military School named after Heydar Aliyev from which he graduated with a rank of lieutenant in 1988. In 2008, he completed a training course at the Training and Education Center. From 2008 to 2009, he served as an officer in Ganja.\n\nOn September 4, 2010, Ahmedov was killed in a shooting along the frontline between Azerbaijani and Armenian and Karabakh forces. The body of Farid Ahmedov remained under Armenian control for 63 days. Finally, his body was returned to Azerbaijan on November 6 following the agreement reached by presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan in Astrakhan in October 2010. \n\nOn 7 November 2010, Ilham Aliyev, the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, signed an order on awarding Farid Aliyev with the title of \"For heroism\" Medal. According to the Decree, he was awarded the medal for his bravery while performing his military service in a very dangerous situation.\n\nA documentary about Ahmedov’s personal life and military career was released in January 2014. \n\n"}
{"id": "3698899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698899", "title": "Gina Cerminara", "text": "Gina Cerminara\n\nGina Cerminara (April 11, 1914 – April 1984) was an American author in the fields of parapsychology, spirituality and reincarnation. She was born in Milwaukee and received BA, MA, and Ph.D. degrees in psychology from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Her years of research regarding Edgar Cayce led her to publish a book about reincarnation in 1950 titled \"Many Mansions\". Her other books on reincarnation include \"The World Within\", \"Many Lives, Many Loves\" and \"Insights for the Age of Aquarius\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43703721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43703721", "title": "Higher-order theories of consciousness", "text": "Higher-order theories of consciousness\n\nHigher-order theories of consciousness postulate that consciousness consists in perceptions or thoughts about first-order mental states. In particular, phenomenal consciousness is thought to be higher-order representation of perceptual or quasi-perceptual contents, such as visual images.\n\nHigher-order theories are distinguished from other cognitive/representational accounts of consciousness which suggest that merely first-order mentality of certain sorts constitutes consciousness.\n\nHigher-order theory can account for the distinction between unconscious and conscious brain processing. Both types of mental operations involve first-order manipulations, and according to higher-order theory, what makes cognition conscious is a higher-order observation of the first-order processing.\n\nIn neuroscience terms, higher-order theory is motivated by the distinction between first-order information in early sensory regions versus higher-order representations in prefrontal and parietal cortices.\n\nAlso called inner-sense theory, this version of higher-order theory proposes that phenomenal consciousness consists not in immediate sensations but in higher-level sensing of those sensations. Or put another way:\nOne motivation for this approach is that it accounts for phenomenal consciousness absent beliefs or behaviors associated with those experiences—so that, e.g., someone could feel pain without necessarily exhibiting functional reactions to pain.\n\nDavid Rosenthal is a foremost advocate of this view. It claims that a mental state is conscious when it's the subject of a higher-order thought (HOT). Phenomenal consciousness in particular corresponds to certain kinds of mental states (e.g., visual inputs) that are the subjects of HOTs. Rosenthal excludes the special case in which one learns about one's lower-order states by conscious deduction. For instance, if psychoanalysis could reveal one's unconscious motives, this would not suddenly make them conscious.\n\nThe dispositionalist mirrors the actualist view except that the first-order mental state needn't actually be thought about—it only needs to be available to potentially be thought about.\n\nWhile actualist accounts would seem to require immense higher-order computation on all first-order percepts, dispositionalist accounts do not; they merely require \"availability\" of first-order information. Such availability could come from, e.g., global broadcasting as in the Global Workspace Theory.\n\nSelf-representational higher-order theories consider the higher-order state to be \"constitutive\" or \"internal\" to its first-order state. This may be either because\nAn example of the second, \"part-whole\" self-representational theory is Vincent Picciuto's \"quotational theory of consciousness\" in which consciousness consists of \"mentally quoting\" a first-order perception.\n\nIn this theory, higher-level processing determines that a first-order representation is reliable.\n\nSimilar to a HOT view, this theory proposes that the brain \"learns\" when there exists a trustworthy lower-level representation.\n\nHigher-order theories originated in philosophy, but they have also gained some scientific defenders. Here are some examples of evidence supporting higher-order views:\n\nEdmund Rolls defends a higher-order account of consciousness. He argues that consciousness consists in higher-order thoughts allowing one to monitor and correct errors and \"that the brain systems that are required for consciousness and language are similar.\" Qualia like pain become conscious when \"they enter into a specialized linguistic symbol-manipulation system, which is part of a higher-order thought system\" that helps with, inter alia, \"flexible planning of actions.\"\n\nScott Sturgeon argues against inner-sense theory on the grounds that it could give rise to disorders in which, e.g., one has a first-order perception of red which mis-triggers a second-order sense of \"looks orange\". But we don't see any such disorders in neurology. More generally, inner-sense and actualist views face the \"targetless higher-order representation problem\" in which there might be, e.g., a higher-order experience/thought about perceiving red without a corresponding first-order redness percept. One reply is that this is no more a problem for higher-order theories than for other neuroscientific theories of consciousness, which also involve many layers of processing that could theoretically be inconsistent.\n\nPeter Carruthers points out that inner sense of or actualist HOTs about first-order percepts might greatly increase the computing power required to consciously process stimuli, for not only does one need to have a perception, but one then needs to have another (perhaps highly detailed) perception or thought about that perception.\n\nThe \"rock objection\" notes that thinking about a rock doesn't cause the rock to \"light up\" with consciousness, so why does thinking about a first-order percept cause it to light up? Higher-order theorists reply that first-order states need to be mental states, which rocks are not.\n"}
{"id": "35197499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35197499", "title": "Hollow log coffin", "text": "Hollow log coffin\n\nA hollow log coffin is a type of coffin used by the Yolngu people of Arnhem Land, Australia. It consists of a tree trunk hollowed out by termites and painted by a clan member of the deceased, with the bones placed inside. Hollow log coffins are also known as dupun, \"lorrkon\", \"djalumbu\", \"badurru\", \"mudukundja\", \"mululu\", and \"larajeje\" in Aboriginal languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "55332931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55332931", "title": "Hussein Ali Abdulle", "text": "Hussein Ali Abdulle\n\nHussein Ali Abdulle (died 9 May 2017 in Mogadishu, Somalia) was a Somali football coach and former player. \n\nRepresenting the \"Ocean Stars\" in many international competitions and matches during the 1960s and 70s, Abdulle was seen as one of Somalia's most respected footballers of his time and went on to coach the national team. \n\nHe died on 9 May 2017 aged 71 after a long illness in his Mogadishu home and was interred afterwards.\n\nFIFA President Gianni Infantino gave his commiserations in a letter to the Somali Football Federation two days after Abdulle's passing.\n"}
{"id": "34938019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34938019", "title": "Industrial forensics", "text": "Industrial forensics\n\nIndustrial forensics is a holistic-based analytical and consultative response to problems encountered at any stage in the industrial manufacturing process. It differs from a traditional analytical approach that routinely identifies a problem and then reports the data in that its goal is to understand the problem, interpret the data and use those elements to prevent the problem from recurring. It is both prognostic and diagnostic. In its broadest sense, it is a holistic approach that examines each step in the product life cycle from initial R&D through final product and beyond to predict, identify, prevent and resolve manufacturing issues.\n\nA professional services laboratory that practices industrial forensics is an extension of the client's scientific organization. It identifies with the client's process and collaborates in the three areas that encompass all of the steps in the product life cycle: research and development (R&D), environmental health and safety (EH&S) and quality control (QA/QC). By examining each step in the manufacturing process in light of one or more of these areas, the laboratory obtains the data it needs to support the manufacturer's materials, processes and product before development, during the process and in the final product. The industrial forensic laboratory uses all available resources including bridging non-traditional expertise and technology and using standard approved methods as well as defining new procedures.\n\nAn industrial forensics laboratory works either as an R&D partner or an independent contractor selected for specific expertise. When working as an industrial partner, the laboratory becomes involved at the earliest stage of product development offering advice on raw materials selection and specifications. In the role of an outside expert, laboratory personnel and resources are made available to supplement the client's in-house capabilities. As an integral part of the R&D service provided, an industrial forensics laboratory is capable of determining root cause of failure at any step of the process in industries that range from nanotechnology to steel manufacturing.\n\nAn industrial forensics laboratory assists industry in interpreting and applying government guidelines and regulations throughout the manufacturing process. The laboratory recommends measures needed to handle environmental concerns to both workers and product. The laboratory can also determine sources of pollutants during the manufacturing process that may affect the working environment and can design sampling and collection plans to monitor that process.\n\nThe industrial forensics laboratory works with the manufacturer to proactively address quality issues during the manufacturing process as well as post-production issues related to product recall, warranty claims or product liability. The laboratory has the resources to provide litigation support.\n\n"}
{"id": "31491156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31491156", "title": "International Violence Against Women Act", "text": "International Violence Against Women Act\n\nThe International Violence Against Women Act of 2015 (I-VAWA) is proposed legislation to address violence against women through United States foreign policy. The legislation was introduced in the 114th United States Congress in March, 2015. Similar legislation was introduced in the 110th and 111th United States Congress but was not passed into law.\n\nAt least 1 in 3 women around the world are subject to sexual, physical or other abuse during their life, per estimates by the United Nations Development Fund for Women. Not only does violence against women prevent mothers from raising healthy children, it also affects the economic progress and stability within the country in which they live.\n\nThe International Violence Against Women Act of 2015 (I-VAWA) (S.713, HR. 1340) was introduced to ensure that addressing violence against women is included in the nation's foreign policy, with best practices for preventing violence, protecting victims and prosecuting offenders.\n\nThe legislation was the result of efforts by:\n\nExperts in related fields from 40 international and 150 U.S. groups provided input for the legislation.\n\nThe House of Representatives Bill (HR. 1340) was brought before the 114th Congress, sponsored by Representative Janice Schakowsky, Illinois's 9th congressional district. The Senate Bill (S.713), was introduced by Senator Barbara Boxer of California.\n\nI-VAWA has been criticized on the grounds that it would discriminate against male victims and impose Western values upon other societies. According to Wendy McElroy, a research fellow at The Independent Institute, the Act \"constitutes a 5-year redirection of foreign aid funds in order to insert politically-correct feminism into the structure of other nations\" and \"revictimizes every male victim by denying his existence.\"\n\nMany organizations support the I-VAWA Act, some of which are:\n\n"}
{"id": "34276164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34276164", "title": "Jules de Saint-Pol", "text": "Jules de Saint-Pol\n\nJules de Saint-Pol (16 December 1810 – 8 September 1855) was a French general.\n"}
{"id": "16542576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16542576", "title": "Kirti Sri Rajasinha of Kandy", "text": "Kirti Sri Rajasinha of Kandy\n\nKirti Sri Raja Singha was the second Nayaka king of Kandy. He was a prince from the Madurai Nayak Dynasty and the brother-in-law of Sri Vijaya Raja Singha. He succeeded his brother-in-law to the throne in 1751.\n\nThe king is credited for the revival of Buddhism and literature in Sri Lanka. Under the guidance and influence of Weliwita Sri Saranankara Thero, with the Dutch assistance, king Kirti Sri Raja Singha successfully invited Bhikkus from Siam (Thailand) to revive the higher ordination of Buddhist monks in Sri Lanka.\n\nHe also built the existing inner temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic and Raja Maha Vihara (Gangarama) in Kandy. During his reign the Mahavamsa chronicle was continued from the time of Parakramabahu IV of Dambadeniya. He also rebuilt the Munneswaram temple close to Chilaw.\n\nIn 1761 King Kirti Sri Rajasinha attacked the Dutch garrisons and forts at Matara, Katuwana, Tangalle, Marakade and Urubokke, completely destroying them, and killing Dutch while some surrendered and ended up as prisoners.\n\nIn order to revenge the humiliation, the new Dutch governor Van Eck had immediate plans to attack Kandy, but the weakness in fortification and garrison forbade the Dutch. Later they did attack in 1764 and in 1765. Hence, in the early part of 1763 the Dutch were only consolidating their positions and gradually expelling Kandyans from the territories taken over from Dutch. Throughout 1763 the King continually sought peace and sent his envoys to discuss terms. The Governor wished the King to cede the three four and seven Korales and Puttlam and hand over the entire coastline of island to the Dutch. The king was not agreeable to any demand that diminished his sovereignty and was deliberately delaying a settlement hoping for help from the English in Madras after his discussion and negotiations with John Pybus 1762.\n\nThe King in mid-1762 sought help from George Pigot, Governor of Fort St George Madras for assistance. The British eager to obtain the monopoly of trading in cinnamon, pepper, betel nut (puwak) from the Kandyan Kings also wanted to expel the Dutch from the coasts. A reason to call on the British for assistance by the Kandyan King in 1762 was that after the treaty of Paris, the Dutch poured troops into Sri Lanka. They were bent on capturing Kandy from six directions (1764). Anticipating such a scenario the King sent an envoy to the English Governor of Madras to assist him in expelling the Dutch. This envoy, a junior Kandyan Official in the military made a clandestine trip to Madras Fort, and the English responded by sending their councilor Mr Pybus.\n\nJohn Pybus, a writer of the British East India Company, sailed to Kandy with a backup of five ships and about 200 armed men. A British vessel brought Pybus to Trincomalee on 5 May 1762. The Dutch knew of the arrival of Pybus through their spies and they were kept informed of his movements. Pybus took an exhausting covert trip to meet the King on 24 May 1762. After several talks without any conclusive decisions Pybus left after a month. The King gave him a ring, sword, a gold chain with breast jewels and left the country crossing the river at Puttalam pass while the Dissawa who accompanied Pybus presented the ships commander Samuel Cornish a gold chain and a ring in the name of King \"\"Keerthi Sri Rajasinha \".\"\n\nJohn Pybus in his notes described the King as a man of tolerable stature, reddish in complexion and very brisk in his movements. Pybus was amazed as to how the Kandyans had managed to fight a war with Dutch and had captured Matara Dutch Fort. He wrote that \"They had put every European to the sword except two officers who are now prisoners of the country.\"\n\nHe married the daughter of one Nadukattu Sami Nayakkar in 1749. He further married three more Nayakkar queens from Madurai, but had no children. He also married two daughters of Vijaya Manna Naicker who was the grandson of Vijaya Raghava Nayak. He had six daughters and two sons by his favorite Sinhala lady (Yakada Doli), daughter of the late Dissava (Headman) of Bintenna, granddaughter of the blind and aged Mampitiya Dissave. Both his sons survived the king and his daughters married Nayakkar relatives of the king. Mampitiya’s sons claim for the throne was overlooked and the choice fell on the king’s brother who was living in court.\n\nThe king died on January 2, 1782, of the injuries caused two months before by a fall from his horse after a reign of 35 years which the people saw as a great religious revival, and had a sentimental attachment to the King.\n\nThere are very many life-size portraits of King Kirti Sri Raja Singha in all the temples he renovated and built. But the most famous are the four life sized wooden statues of the king today, two of them can be seen at Dambulla temple and at Malwatta temple in Kandy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56044030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56044030", "title": "Landlady's wig", "text": "Landlady's wig\n\nLandlady's wig can refer to two kinds of seaweeds:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2628197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2628197", "title": "List of unsolved deaths", "text": "List of unsolved deaths\n\nThis list of unsolved deaths includes notable cases where victims have been murdered or have died under unsolved circumstances, including murders committed by unknown serial killers. The mysteriously-deceased are listed chronologically by year. (For \"serial killer cases\" which span multiple years, entries are listed under the year the first murder took place.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16040639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16040639", "title": "List of victims of the Babi Yar massacre", "text": "List of victims of the Babi Yar massacre\n\nThis is a list of victims of the Babi Yar massacre. During September 29—30, 1941, a special team of German SS aided by Ukrainian police killed 33,771 Jews. Subsequent massacres also included Ukrainians and Poles. The Babi Yar massacre is considered to be \"the largest single massacre in the history of the Holocaust\". Executions of Jews, Ukrainians, Gypsies and others continued in Babi Yar throughout the period of the Nazi occupation of Kiev, ending with the beginning of the Battle of Kiev (1943), totalling up to 120,000 victims.\n\nA list of some Jewish victims, including 26 of those who died in the Babi Yar, is available here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7397035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7397035", "title": "Manslaughter", "text": "Manslaughter\n\nManslaughter is a common law legal term for homicide considered by law as less culpable than murder. The distinction between murder and manslaughter is sometimes said to have first been made by the ancient Athenian lawmaker Draco in the 7th century BC.\n\nThe definition of manslaughter differs among legal jurisdictions.\n\nIn voluntary manslaughter, the offender had no prior intent to kill and acted \"in the moment\" under circumstances that could cause a reasonable person to become emotionally or mentally disturbed. Examples could include a defender killing a home invader without being placed in a life or death situation. There are mitigating circumstances that reduce culpability, such as when the defendant kills only with an intent to cause serious bodily harm. Voluntary manslaughter in some jurisdictions is a lesser included offense of murder. The traditional mitigating factor was provocation; however, others have been added in various jurisdictions.\n\nThe most common type of voluntary manslaughter occurs when a defendant is provoked to commit homicide. This is sometimes described as a crime of passion. In most cases, the provocation must induce rage or anger in the defendant, although some cases have held that fright, terror, or desperation will suffice.\n\nAssisted suicide is suicide committed with the aid of another person, sometimes a physician.\n\nIn some places, including parts of the United States, assisted suicide is punishable as manslaughter. \nIn other countries such as Switzerland and Canada, and in some U.S. states, as long as legal safeguards are observed, assisted suicide is legal.\n\n\"Involuntary manslaughter\" is the homicide of a human being without intent of doing so, either expressed or implied. It is distinguished from voluntary manslaughter by the absence of intention. It is normally divided into two categories, constructive manslaughter and criminally negligent manslaughter, both of which involve criminal liability.\n\nConstructive manslaughter is also referred to as \"unlawful act\" manslaughter. It is based on the doctrine of constructive malice, whereby the malicious intent inherent in the commission of a crime is considered to apply to the consequences of that crime. It occurs when someone kills, without intent, in the course of committing an unlawful act. The malice involved in the crime is transferred to the killing, resulting in a charge of manslaughter.\n\nFor example, a person who fails to stop at a red traffic light while driving a vehicle and hits someone crossing the street could be found to intend or be reckless as to assault or criminal damage (see \"DPP v Newbury\"). There is no intent to kill, and a resulting death would not be considered murder, but would be considered involuntary manslaughter. The accused's responsibility for causing death is constructed from the fault in committing what might have been a minor criminal act. Reckless driving or reckless handling of a potentially lethal weapon may result in a death that is deemed manslaughter.\n\nInvoluntary manslaughter may be distinguished from accidental death. A person who is driving carefully, but whose car nevertheless hits a child darting out into the street, has not committed manslaughter. A person who pushes off an aggressive drunk, who then falls and dies, has probably not committed manslaughter, although in some jurisdictions it may depend whether \"excessive force\" was used or other factors.\n\nAs manslaughter is not defined by legislation in Australia, common law decisions provide the basis for determining whether an act resulting in death amounts to manslaughter by unlawful and dangerous act. To be found guilty of manslaughter by an unlawful and dangerous act, the accused must be shown to have committed an unlawful act which is contrary to the criminal law, and that a reasonable person in the position of the accused would have known that by their act, they were exposing the victim to an ‘appreciable risk of serious injury’.\n\nCriminally negligent manslaughter is variously referred to as criminally negligent homicide in the United States, and gross negligence manslaughter in England and Wales. In Scotland and some Commonwealth of Nations jurisdictions the offence of culpable homicide might apply.\n\nIt occurs where death results from serious negligence, or, in some jurisdictions, serious recklessness. A high degree of negligence is required to warrant criminal liability. A related concept is that of willful blindness, which is where a defendant intentionally puts themself in a position where the defendant will be unaware of facts which would render them liable.\n\nCriminally negligent manslaughter occurs where there is an omission to act when there is a duty to do so, or a failure to perform a duty owed, which leads to a death. The existence of the duty is essential because the law does not impose criminal liability for a failure to act unless a specific duty is owed to the victim. It is most common in the case of professionals who are grossly negligent in the course of their employment. An example is where a doctor fails to notice a patient's oxygen supply has disconnected and the patient dies (\"R v Adomako\"). Another example could be leaving a child locked in a car on a hot day.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, such as some U.S. States, there exists the specific crime of vehicular or intoxication manslaughter. An equivalent in Canada is causing death by criminal negligence under the Criminal Code, punishable by a maximum penalty of life imprisonment.\n\nThe definition of manslaughter differs from one jurisdiction to another.\n\nThe law generally differentiates between levels of criminal culpability based on the \"mens rea\", or state of mind, or the circumstances under which the killing occurred (mitigating factors). Manslaughter is usually broken down into two distinct categories: \"voluntary manslaughter\" and \"involuntary manslaughter\". However, this is not the case in all jurisdictions, for example, in the U.S. state of Florida.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, such as the U.K., Canada, and some Australian states, \"adequate provocation\" may be a partial defense to a charge of murder, which, if accepted by the jury, would convert what might otherwise have been a murder charge into manslaughter.\n\nIn Australia, specifically New South Wales, manslaughter is referred to, however not defined, in the \"Crimes Act 1900\" (NSW).\n\nManslaughter exists in two forms in New South Wales: Voluntary or Involuntary Manslaughter. In New South Wales, in cases of voluntary manslaughter, both the \"actus reus\" (literally guilty act) and \"mens rea\" (literally guilty mind) for murder are proven but the defendant has a partial defence, such as extreme provocation or diminished responsibility. In cases of involuntary manslaughter, the \"actus reus\" for murder is present but there is insufficient \"mens rea\" to establish such a charge.\n\nThere are two categories of involuntary manslaughter at common law: manslaughter by unlawful and dangerous act and manslaughter by criminal negligence. The authority for the \"actus reus\" and \"mens rea\" of involuntary manslaughter by an unlawful and dangerous act is the High Court of Australia case of \"Wilson v R\". This case determined that the act that caused the death must breach the criminal law and that the act must carry an appreciable risk of serious injury (\"actus reus\"). Regarding the \"mens rea\", the court held that the accused must intend to commit the unlawful act and that a reasonable person in the position of the accused would have realised or recognised that the act carried an appreciable risk of serious injury. Manslaughter by criminal negligence, on the other hand, finds its authority in the Victorian case of \"Nydam v R\", confirmed by the High Court of Australia in \"R v Lavender\" and \"Burns v R\". In \"Nydam v R\", the Court described the office at [445] in the following terms:In order to establish manslaughter by criminal negligence, it is sufficient if the prosecution shows that the act which caused the death was done by the accused consciously and voluntarily, without any intention of causing death or grievous bodily harm but in circumstances which involved such a great falling short of the standard of care which a reasonable man would have exercised and which involved such a high risk that death or grievous bodily harm would follow that the doing of the act merited criminal punishment.\n\nCanadian law distinguishes between justifiable, accidental and culpable homicide. If a death is deemed a culpable homicide, it generally falls under one of four categories (first-degree murder, second-degree murder, manslaughter, and infanticide).\n\nCanadian law defines manslaughter as \"a homicide committed without the intention to cause death, although there may have been an intention to cause harm\". There are two broad categories of manslaughter: unlawful act, and criminal negligence.\n\nUnlawful act is when a person commits a crime that unintentionally results in the death of another person.\n\nCriminal negligence is when the homicide was the result of an act that showed wanton or reckless disregard for the lives of others.\n\nIn English law, manslaughter is a less serious offence than murder. In England and Wales, the usual practice is to prefer a charge of murder, with the judge or defence able to introduce manslaughter as an option (see lesser included offence). The jury then decides whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty of either murder or manslaughter. Manslaughter may be either voluntary or involuntary, depending on whether the accused has the required \"mens rea\" for murder.\n\nThe Homicide Act 1957 and Coroners and Justice Act 2009 are relevant acts.\n\nVoluntary manslaughter occurs when the defendant avails themself of the three statutory defenses described in the Homicide Act 1957 (provocation, diminished responsibility, and a suicide pact).\n\nInvoluntary manslaughter occurs when the agent has no intention (mens rea) of committing murder, but caused the death of another through recklessness or criminal negligence. The crime of involuntary manslaughter can be subdivided into two main categories: constructive manslaughter and gross negligence manslaughter.\n\nManslaughter is a crime in the United States. Definitions can vary among jurisdictions, but the U.S. follows the general principle that manslaughter involves causing the death of another person in a manner less culpable than murder, and observes the distinction between voluntary and involuntary manslaughter.\n\nCivil Law jurisdictions, such as the French Code, use \"murder\" or \"involuntary homicide\" to cover the crime of manslaughter, and reserve \"assassination\" for the crime of premeditated murder.\n\n"}
{"id": "234657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234657", "title": "Mary Bell", "text": "Mary Bell\n\nMary Flora Bell (born 26 May 1957) is an English woman who, as a child aged 10–11 in 1968, strangled to death two young boys in Scotswood, an inner-city suburb in the West End district of Newcastle upon Tyne. She was convicted in December 1968 of the manslaughter of Martin Brown (aged 4) and Brian Howe (aged 3).\n\nSince her release from prison in 1980, she has lived under a series of pseudonyms. Her identity has been protected by a court order, which has also been extended to protect the identity of her daughter. In 1998, Bell collaborated with Gitta Sereny on an account of her life, in which she details the abuse she suffered as a child at the hands of her mothera prostituteand her mother's clients.\nBell's mother Betty (née McCrickett) was a prostitute who was often absent from the family home, travelling to Glasgow to work. Mary (nicknamed May) was her first child, born when Betty was 17 years old. It is not known who Mary's biological father was. For most of her life she believed it to be Billy Bell, a habitual criminal who was later arrested for armed robbery, but Bell married McCrickett when Mary was a baby.\n\nIndependent accounts from family members strongly suggest that Betty had more than once attempted to kill Mary and make her death look accidental during the first few years of her life. Her family was suspicious when Mary \"fell\" from a window, and when she \"accidentally\" consumed sleeping pills. On one such occasion, an independent witness saw Betty giving the pills to her daughter as sweets. Mary herself says she was subjected to repeated sexual abuse, her mother forcing her from the age of four to engage in sexual acts with men.\n\nIt was reported after this \"fall\" that Mary experienced, that she had suffered from brain damage. At the time this was reported as a result of the fall, however we now know this may be due to the abuse she has experienced as a child, from her own mother. Mary had damage to her prefrontal cortex, an are associated with voluntary movements and decision-making.\n\nOn 25 May 1968, the day before her 11th birthday, Mary Bell strangled 4-year-old Martin Brown in a derelict house. She was believed to have committed this crime alone. Between that time and a second killing, she and a friend, Norma Joyce Bell (1955–1989; no relation), aged 13, broke into and vandalised a nursery in Scotswood, leaving notes that claimed responsibility for the killing. The police dismissed this incident as a prank.\n\nOn 31 July 1968, the two girls took part in the death, again by strangulation, of 3-year-old Brian Howe, in a wasteland in the same Scotswood area. Police reports concluded that Mary Bell had later returned to his body to carve an \"M\" into the boy's stomach. Mary Bell also used a pair of scissors to cut off some of Howe's hair, scratch his legs, and mutilate his penis.\n\nOn 17 December 1968, at Newcastle Assizes, Norma Bell was acquitted but Mary Bell was convicted of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, the jury taking their lead from her diagnosis by court-appointed psychiatrists who described her as displaying \"classic symptoms of psychopathy\". The judge, Justice Cusack, described her as dangerous and said she posed a \"very grave risk to other children\". She was sentenced to be detained at Her Majesty's pleasure, effectively an indefinite sentence of imprisonment. She was initially sent to Red Bank secure unit in Newton-Le-Willows, Lancashire – the same facility that would house Jon Venables, one of James Bulger's killers, 25 years later.\n\nAfter her conviction, Bell was the focus of a great deal of attention from the British press and also from the German magazine \"Stern\". Her mother repeatedly sold stories about her to the press and often gave reporters writings she claimed to be by her daughter. Bell herself made headlines when, in September 1977, she briefly escaped from Moor Court open prison, where she had been held since her transfer from a young offenders institution to an adult prison a year earlier. Her penalty for this was a loss of prison privileges for 28 days.\n\nFor a time, Bell also lived in a girls' remand home at Cumberlow Lodge in South Norwood (in a house built by Victorian inventor William Stanley).\n\nIn 1980, Bell, aged 23, was released from Askham Grange open prison after having served 12 years and was granted anonymity (including a new name), allowing her to start a new life. Four years later she had a daughter, born on 25 May 1984. Bell's daughter did not know of her mother's past until Bell's location was discovered by reporters in 1998 and she and her mother had to leave their house with bed sheets over their heads.\n\nBell's daughter's anonymity was originally protected only until she reached the age of 18. However, on 21 May 2003, Bell won a High Court battle to have her own anonymity and that of her daughter extended for life. Any court order permanently protecting the identity of a convict in Britain is consequently sometimes known as a \"Mary Bell order\".\n\nBell is the subject of two books by Gitta Sereny: \"The Case of Mary Bell\" (1972), an account of the killings and trial, and \"Cries Unheard: the Story of Mary Bell\" (1998), an in-depth biography based on interviews with Bell and relatives, friends and professionals who knew her during and after her imprisonment. This second book was the first to detail Bell's account of sexual abuse at the hands of her mother, a prostitute who specialised as a dominatrix, and her mother's clients.\n\nThe publication of \"Cries Unheard\" was controversial because Bell received payment for her participation. The payment was criticised by the tabloid press, and Tony Blair's government attempted to find a legal means to prevent its publication on the grounds that a criminal should not profit from his or her crimes, but the attempt was unsuccessful.\n\nBell is one of thirteen child killers reported on in the book \"Children Who Kill: Profiles of Pre-teen and Teenage Killers\" by author Carol Anne Davis, published in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51434916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51434916", "title": "Operational continuity", "text": "Operational continuity\n\nOperational continuity refers to the ability of a system to continue working despite damages, losses or critical events. In the Human Resources and Organizational domain, including IT, it implies the need to determine the level of resilience of the system, its ability to recover after an event, and build a system that resists to external and internal events or is able to recover after an event without losing its external performance management capability. Organizational Continuity is achieved only with specific corporate planning. In the material domain, it determines the need to adopt redundant systems, performance monitoring systems, and can even imply the practice to cannibalize or to remove serviceable assemblies, sub-assemblies or components from a repairable or serviceable item of equipment in order to install them on another, in order to keep the external system performance active.\nOperational continuity may be referred to single systems, single individuals, up to teams or entire complex systems such as IT infrastructures, implying the ability of an organization or system to continue to provide its mission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29136076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29136076", "title": "Perspectives on capitalism by school of thought", "text": "Perspectives on capitalism by school of thought\n\nThroughout modern history, a variety of perspectives on capitalism have evolved based on different schools of thought.\n\nAdam Smith was one of the first influential writers on the topic with his book \"The Wealth of Nations\", which is generally considered to be the start of classical economics which emerged in the 18th century. To the contrary, Karl Marx considered capitalism to be a historically specific mode of production and considered capitalism a phase of economic development that would pass and be replaced by pure communism. In conjunction with his criticism of capitalism was Marx's belief that exploited labor would be the driving force behind a social revolution to a socialist-style economy. For Marx, this cycle of the extraction of the surplus value by the owners of capital or the bourgeoisie becomes the basis of class struggle.\n\nThis argument is intertwined with Marx's version of the labor theory of value asserting that labor is the source of all value and thus of profit. Max Weber considered market exchange rather than production as the defining feature of capitalism. In contrast to their counterparts in prior modes of economic activity, capitalist enterprises was their rationalization of production, directed toward maximizing efficiency and productivity; a tendency leading to a sociological process of enveloping rationalization. According to Weber, workers in pre-capitalist economic institutions understood work in terms of a personal relationship between master and journeyman in a guild, or between lord and peasant in a manor.\n\nMeanwhile institutional economics, once the main school of economic thought in the United States, holds that capitalism cannot be separated from the political and social system within which it is embedded. In the late 19th century, the German Historical School of economics diverged with the emerging Austrian School of economics, led at the time by Carl Menger. Later generations of followers of the Austrian School continued to be influential in Western economic thought through much of the 20th century. The Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, a forerunner of the Austrian School of economics, emphasized the creative destruction of capitalism—the fact that market economies undergo constant change.\n\nThe Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek were among the leading defenders of market economy against 20th century proponents of socialist planned economies. Among Mises's arguments were the economic calculation problem, which was first proposed by Mises in 1920 and later expounded by Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market solution is the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how a good or service should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for it. Mises and Hayek argued that only market capitalism could manage a complex, modern economy.\n\nPartially opposed to that view, the British economist John Maynard Keynes argued in his 1937 \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money\" that capitalism suffered a basic problem in its ability to recover from periods of slowdowns in investment. Keynes argued that a capitalist economy could remain in an indefinite equilibrium despite high unemployment. Keynes tried to provide solutions to many of Marx’s problems without completely abandoning the classical understanding of capitalism. His work attempted to show that regulation can be effective and that economic stabilizers can rein in the aggressive expansions and recessions that Marx disliked.\n\nThese changes sought to create more stability in the business cycle and reduce the abuses of laborers. Keynesian economists argue that Keynesian policies were one of the primary reasons capitalism was able to recover following the Great Depression.\n\nSupply-side economics developed during the 1970s in response to Keynesian economic policy and in particular the failure of demand management to stabilize Western economies during the stagflation of the 1970s in the wake of the oil crisis in 1973. It drew on a range of non-Keynesian economic thought, particularly Austrian School thinking on entrepreneurship and new classical macroeconomics. The intellectual roots of supply-side economics have also been traced back to various early economic thinkers such as Ibn Khaldun, Jonathan Swift, David Hume, Adam Smith and Alexander Hamilton. Typical policy recommendations of supply-side economics are lower marginal tax rates and less regulation. Maximum benefits from taxation policy are achieved by optimizing the marginal tax rates to spur growth, although it is a common misunderstanding that supply side economics is concerned only with taxation policy when it is about removing barriers to production more generally.\n\nToday, the majority academic research on capitalism in the English-speaking world draws on neoclassical economic thought. It favors extensive market coordination and relatively neutral patterns of governmental market regulation aimed at maintaining property rights; deregulated labor markets; corporate governance dominated by financial owners of firms; and financial systems depending chiefly on capital market-based financing rather than state financing.\n\nMilton Friedman took many of the basic principles set forth by Adam Smith and the classical economists and gave them a new twist. One example of this is his article in the September 1970 issue of \"The New York Times\", where he claims that the social responsibility of business is \"to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits…(through) open and free competition without deception or fraud\". This is similar to Smith’s argument that self-interest in turn benefits the whole of society.\n\nWork like this helped lay the foundations for the coming marketization (or privatization) of state enterprises and the supply-side economics of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. The Chicago School of economics is best known for its free market advocacy and monetarist ideas. According to Friedman and other monetarists, market economies are inherently stable if left to themselves and depressions result only from government intervention.\n\nThe classical school of economic thought emerged in Britain in the late 18th century. The classical political economists Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Jean-Baptiste Say and John Stuart Mill published analyses of the production, distribution and exchange of goods in a market that have since formed the basis of study for most contemporary economists.\n\nIn France, Physiocrats like François Quesnay promoted free trade based on a conception that wealth originated from land. Quesnay's \"Tableau Économique\" (1759) described the economy analytically and laid the foundation of the Physiocrats' economic theory, followed by Anne Robert Jacques Turgot who opposed tariffs and customs duties and advocated free trade. Richard Cantillon defined long-run equilibrium as the balance of flows of income and argued that the supply and demand mechanism around land influenced short-term prices.\n\nSmith's attack on mercantilism and his reasoning for \"the system of natural liberty\" in \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776) are usually taken as the beginning of classical political economy. Smith devised a set of concepts that remain strongly associated with capitalism today, particularly his theory of the \"invisible hand\" of the market, through which the pursuit of individual self-interest unintentionally produces a collective good for society. It was necessary for Smith to be so forceful in his argument in favor of free markets because he had to overcome the popular mercantilist sentiment of the time period.\nHe criticized monopolies, tariffs, duties and other state enforced restrictions of his time and believed that the market is the most fair and efficient arbitrator of resources. This view was shared by David Ricardo, second most important of the classical political economists and one of the most influential economists of modern times.\n\nIn \"The Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\" (1817), Ricardo developed the law of comparative advantage, which explains why it is profitable for two parties to trade, even if one of the trading partners is more efficient in every type of economic production. This principle supports the economic case for free trade. Ricardo was a supporter of Say's law and held the view that full employment is the normal equilibrium for a competitive economy. He also argued that inflation is closely related to changes in quantity of money and credit and was a proponent of the law of diminishing returns, which states that each additional unit of input yields less and less additional output.\n\nThe values of classical political economy are strongly associated with the classical liberal doctrine of minimal government intervention in the economy, though it does not necessarily oppose the state's provision of a few basic public goods. Classical liberal thought has generally assumed a clear division between the economy and other realms of social activity, such as the state.\n\nKarl Marx considered capitalism to be a historically specific mode of production (the way in which the productive property is owned and controlled, combined with the corresponding social relations between individuals based on their connection with the process of production).\n\nFor Marx, the capitalist stage of development or \"bourgeois society\" represented the most advanced form of social organization to date, but he also thought that the working classes would come to power in a worldwide socialist or communist transformation of human society as the end of the series of first aristocratic, then capitalist and finally working class rule was reached.\nFollowing Adam Smith, Marx distinguished the use value of commodities from their exchange value in the market. According to Marx, capital is created with the purchase of commodities for the purpose of creating new commodities with an exchange value higher than the sum of the original purchases. For Marx, the use of labor power had itself become a commodity under capitalism because the exchange value of labor power—as reflected in the wage—is less than the value it produces for the capitalist.\n\nHe argues this difference in values constitutes surplus value, which the capitalists extract and accumulate. In his book \"\", Marx argues that the capitalist mode of production is distinguished by how the owners of capital extract this surplus from workers—all prior class societies had extracted surplus labor, but capitalism was new in doing so via the sale-value of produced commodities. He argues that a core requirement of a capitalist society is that a large portion of the population must not possess sources of self-sustenance that would allow them to be independent and must instead be compelled to survive to sell their labor for a living wage.\nIn conjunction with his criticism of capitalism was Marx's belief that exploited labor would be the driving force behind a revolution to a socialist-style economy. For Marx, this cycle of the extraction of the surplus value by the owners of capital or the bourgeoisie becomes the basis of class struggle. This argument is intertwined with Marx's version of the labor theory of value asserting that labor is the source of all value and thus of profit.\nIn \"Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism\" (1916), Vladimir Lenin modified classic Marxist theory and argued that capitalism necessarily induced monopoly capitalism—which he also called \"imperialism\"—to find new markets and resources, representing the last and highest stage of capitalism. Some 20th-century Marxian economists consider capitalism to be a social formation where capitalist class processes dominate, but are not exclusive.\n\nTo these thinkers, capitalist class processes are simply those in which surplus labor takes the form of surplus value, usable as capital whiles other tendencies for utilization of labor nonetheless exist simultaneously in existing societies where capitalist processes are predominant. However, other late Marxian thinkers argue that a social formation as a whole may be classed as capitalist if capitalism is the mode by which a surplus is extracted even if this surplus is not produced by capitalist activity as when an absolute majority of the population is engaged in non-capitalist economic activity.\n\nDavid Harvey extends Marxian thinking through which he theorizes the differential production of place, space and political activism under capitalism. He uses Marx’s theory of crisis to aid his argument that capitalism must have its \"fixes\", but that we cannot predetermine what fixes will be implemented, nor in what form they will be.\n\nThis idea of fix is suggestive and could mean fix as in stabilize, heal or solve, or as in a junky needing a fix—the idea of preventing feeling worse in order to feel better. In \"Limits to Capital\" (1982), Harvey outlines an overdetermined, spatially restless capitalism coupled with the spatiality of crisis formation and its resolution. Furthermore, his work has been central for understanding the contractions of capital accumulation and international movements of capitalist modes of production and money flows.\n\nIn his essay, \"Notes towards a theory of uneven geographical development\", Harvey examines the causes of the extreme volatility in contemporary political economic fortunes across and between spaces of the world economy. He bases this uneven development on four conditionalities, being the material embedding of capital accumulation processes in the web of socio-ecological life; accumulation by dispossession; the law-like character of capital accumulation in space and time; and political, social and \"class\" struggles at a variety of geographical scales.\n\nIn some social sciences, the understanding of the defining characteristics of capitalism has been strongly influenced by 19th century German social theorist Max Weber. Weber considered market exchange rather than production as the defining feature of capitalism. In contrast to their counterparts in prior modes of economic activity, capitalist enterprises are characterized by their rationalization of production, directed toward maximizing efficiency and productivity, a tendency leading to a sociological process of enveloping rationalization. According to Weber, workers in pre-capitalist economic institutions understood work in terms of a personal relationship between master and journeyman in a guild, or between lord and peasant in a manor.\n\nIn his book \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\" (1904–1905), Weber sought to trace how a particular form of religious spirit, infused into traditional modes of economic activity, was a condition of possibility of modern Western capitalism. For Weber, the spirit of capitalism was in general that of ascetic Protestantism—this ideology was able to motivate extreme rationalization of daily life, a propensity to accumulate capital by a religious ethic to advance economically and thus also the propensity to reinvest capital: this was sufficient then to create \"self-mediating capital\" as conceived by Marx.\n\nThis is pictured in Proverbs 22:29 \"Seest thou a man diligent in his calling? He shall stand before kings\" and in Colossians 3:23 \"Whatever you do, do your work heartily, as for the Lord rather than for men\". In the \"Protestant Ethic\", Weber further stated that \"moneymaking—provided it is done legally—is, within the modern economic order, the result and the expression of diligence in one’s calling\" and \"If God show you a way in which you may lawfully get more than in another way (without wrong to your soul or to any other), if you refuse this, and choose the less gainful way, you cross one of the ends of your calling, and you refuse to be God's steward, and to accept His gifts and use them for him when He requireth it: you may labour to be rich for God, though not for the flesh and sin\" (p. 108).\n\nMost generally for Weber, Western capitalism was the \"rational organization of formally free labor\". The idea of the \"formally free\" laborer meant in the double sense of Marx that the laborer was both free to own property and free of the ability to reproduce his labor power, i.e. was the victim of expropriation of his means of production. It is only on these conditions, still abundantly obvious in the modern world of Weber, that Western capitalism is able to exist.\n\nFor Weber, modern Western capitalism represented the order \"now bound to the technical and economic conditions of machine production which to-day determine the lives of all the individuals who are born into this mechanism, not only those directly concerned with economic acquisition, with irresistible force. Perhaps it will so determine them until the last ton of fossilized coal is burnt\" (p. 123). This is further seen in his criticism of \"specialists without spirit, hedonists without a heart\" that were developing in his opinion with the fading of the original Puritan \"spirit\" associated with capitalism.\n\nOnce the main school of economic thought in the United States, institutional economics holds that capitalism cannot be separated from the political and social system within which it is embedded. It emphasizes the legal foundations of capitalism (see John R. Commons) and the evolutionary, habituated and volitional processes by which institutions are erected and then changed (see John Dewey, Thorstein Veblen and Daniel Bromley).\n\nOne key figure in institutional economics was Thorstein Veblen who in his book \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" (1899) analyzed the motivations of wealthy people in capitalism who conspicuously consumed their riches as a way of demonstrating success. The concept of conspicuous consumption was in direct contradiction to the neoclassical view that capitalism was efficient.\n\nIn \"The Theory of Business Enterprise\" (1904), Veblen distinguished the motivations of industrial production for people to use things from business motivations that used, or misused, industrial infrastructure for profit, arguing that the former is often hindered because businesses pursue the latter. Output and technological advance are restricted by business practices and the creation of monopolies. Businesses protect their existing capital investments and employ excessive credit, leading to depressions and increasing military expenditure and war through business control of political power.\n\nFrom the perspective of the German Historical School, capitalism is primarily identified in terms of the organization of production for markets. Although this perspective shares similar theoretical roots with that of Weber, its emphasis on markets and money lends it different focus. For followers of the German Historical School, the key shift from traditional modes of economic activity to capitalism involved the shift from medieval restrictions on credit and money to the modern monetary economy combined with an emphasis on the profit motive.\nIn the late 19th century, the German Historical School of economics diverged with the emerging Austrian School of economics, led at the time by Carl Menger. Later generations of followers of the Austrian School continued to be influential in Western economic thought through much of the 20th century. The Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter, a forerunner of the Austrian School of economics, emphasized the \"creative destruction\" of capitalism—the fact that market economies undergo constant change.\n\nAt any moment of time, posits Schumpeter, there are rising industries and declining industries. Schumpeter and many contemporary economists influenced by his work argue that resources should flow from the declining to the expanding industries for an economy to grow, but they recognized that sometimes resources are slow to withdraw from the declining industries because of various forms of institutional resistance to change.\n\nThe Austrian economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek were among the leading defenders of market economy against 20th century proponents of socialist planned economies. Mises and Hayek argued that only market capitalism could manage a complex, modern economy.\nAmong their arguments were the economic calculation problem, which was first proposed by Mises in 1920 and later expounded by Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market solution is the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how a good or service should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for it. The price conveys embedded information about the abundance of resources as well as their desirability which in turn allows corrections that prevent shortages and surpluses on the basis of individual consensual decisions.\n\nMises and Hayek argued that this is the only possible solution and without the information provided by market prices socialism lacks a method to rationally allocate resources. Mises argued in a famous 1920 article \"Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth\" that the pricing systems in socialist economies were necessarily deficient because if government owned or controlled the means of production, then no rational prices could be obtained for capital goods as they were merely internal transfers of goods in a socialist system and not \"objects of exchange\", unlike final goods, therefore they were unpriced and hence the system would be necessarily inefficient since the central planners would not know how to allocate the available resources efficiently. This led him to declare \"that rational economic activity is impossible in a socialist commonwealth\". Mises developed his critique of socialism more completely in his 1922 book \"Socialism: An Economic and Sociological Analysis\".\n\nSince a modern economy produces such a large array of distinct goods and services and consists of such a large array of consumers and enterprises, asserted Mises and Hayek, the information problems facing any other form of economic organization other than market capitalism would exceed its capacity to handle information. Thinkers within supply-side economics built on the work of the Austrian School and particularly emphasize Say's law that \"supply creates its own demand\". To this school, capitalism is defined by lack of state restraint on the decisions of producers.\n\nAustrian economists claim that Marx failed to make the distinction between capitalism and mercantilism. They argue that Marx conflated the imperialistic, colonialistic, protectionist and interventionist doctrines of mercantilism with capitalism.\n\nAustrian economics has been a major influence on some forms of right-libertarianism in which \"laissez-faire\" capitalism is considered to be the ideal economic system. It influenced economists and political philosophers and theorists including Henry Hazlitt, Hans-Hermann Hoppe, Israel Kirzner, Murray Rothbard, Walter Block and Richard M. Ebeling.\n\nIn his 1937 \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money\", the British economist John Maynard Keynes argued that capitalism suffered a basic problem in its ability to recover from periods of slowdowns in investment. Keynes argued that a capitalist economy could remain in an indefinite equilibrium despite high unemployment.\n\nEssentially rejecting Say's law, he argued that some people may have a liquidity preference that would see them rather hold money than buy new goods or services, which therefore raised the prospect that the Great Depression would not end without what he termed in the \"General Theory\" \"a somewhat comprehensive socialization of investment\".\n\nKeynesian economics challenged the notion that \"laissez-faire\" capitalist economics could operate well on their own without state intervention used to promote aggregate demand, fighting high unemployment and deflation of the sort seen during the 1930s. He and his followers recommended \"pump-priming\" the economy to avoid recession: cutting taxes, increasing government borrowing and spending during an economic down-turn. This was to be accompanied by trying to control wages nationally partly through the use of inflation to cut real wages and to deter people from holding money.\nKeynes tried to provide solutions to many of Marx’s problems without completely abandoning the classical understanding of capitalism. His work attempted to show that regulation can be effective and that economic stabilizers can rein in the aggressive expansions and recessions that Marx disliked. These changes sought to create more stability in the business cycle and reduce the abuses of laborers. Keynesian economists argue that Keynesian policies were one of the primary reasons capitalism was able to recover following the Great Depression. However, the premises of Keynes’s work have since been challenged by neoclassical and supply-side economics and the Austrian School.\n\nAnother challenge to Keynesian thinking came from his colleague Piero Sraffa and subsequently from the Neo-Ricardian school that followed Sraffa. In Sraffa's highly technical analysis, capitalism is defined by an entire system of social relations among both producers and consumers, but with a primary emphasis on the demands of production. According to Sraffa, the tendency of capital to seek its highest rate of profit causes a dynamic instability in social and economic relations.\n\nSupply-side economics is a school of macroeconomic thought that argues that economic growth can be most effectively created by lowering barriers for people to produce (supply) goods and services, such as adjusting income tax and capital gains tax rates and by allowing greater flexibility by reducing regulation. Consumers will then benefit from a greater supply of goods and services at lower prices.\n\nThe term \"supply-side economics\" was thought for some time to have been coined by journalist Jude Wanniski in 1975, but according to Robert D. Atkinson's \"Supply-Side Follies\" the term \"supply side\" (\"supply-side fiscalists\") was first used in 1976 by Herbert Stein (a former economic adviser to President Nixon) and only later that year was this term repeated by Jude Wanniski. Its use connotes the ideas of economists Robert Mundell and Arthur Laffer. Today, supply-side economics is often conflated with the politically rhetorical term \"trickle-down economics\", but as Jude Wanniski points out in his book \"The Way The World Works\" trickle-down economics is conservative Keynesianism associated with the Republican Party.\nTypical policy recommendations of supply-side economics are lower marginal tax rates and less regulation. Maximum benefits from taxation policy are achieved by optimizing the marginal tax rates to spur growth, although it is a common misunderstanding that supply side economics is concerned only with taxation policy when it is about removing barriers to production more generally.\n\nMany early proponents argued that the size of the economic growth would be significant enough that the increased government revenue from a faster-growing economy would be sufficient to compensate completely for the short-term costs of a tax cut and that tax cuts could in fact cause overall revenue to increase.\n\nToday, the majority academic research on capitalism in the English-speaking world draws on neoclassical economic thought. It favors extensive market coordination and relatively neutral patterns of governmental market regulation aimed at maintaining property rights; deregulated labor markets; corporate governance dominated by financial owners of firms; and financial systems depending chiefly on capital market-based financing rather than state financing.\n\nMilton Friedman took many of the basic principles set forth by Adam Smith and the classical economists and gave them a new twist. One example of this is his article in the September 1970 issue of \"The New York Times\", where he claims that the social responsibility of business is \"to use its resources and engage in activities designed to increase its profits…(through) open and free competition without deception or fraud\". This is similar to Smith’s argument that self-interest in turn benefits the whole of society. Work like this helped lay the foundations for the coming marketization (or privatization) of state enterprises and the supply-side economics of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher.\n\nThe Chicago School of economics is best known for its free market advocacy and monetarist ideas. According to Friedman and other monetarists, market economies are inherently stable if left to themselves and depressions result only from government intervention.\nFriedman argued that the Great Depression was result of a contraction of the money supply controlled by the Federal Reserve and not by the lack of investment as John Maynard Keynes: \"There is likely to be a lag between the need for action and government recognition of the need; a further lag between recognition of the need for action and the taking of action; and a still further lag between the action and its effects\". Ben Bernanke, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, is among the economists today generally accepting Friedman's analysis of the causes of the Great Depression.\n\nNeoclassical economists, today the majority of economists, consider value to be subjective, varying from person to person and for the same person at different times and thus reject the labor theory of value. Marginalism is the theory that economic value results from marginal utility and marginal cost (the marginal concepts). These economists see capitalists as earning profits by forgoing current consumption, by taking risks, and by organizing production.\n\nMainstream economics is a loose term used to refer to the non-heterodox economics taught in prominent universities. It is most closely associated with neoclassical economics, or more precisely by the neoclassical synthesis, which combines neoclassical approach to microeconomics with Keynesian approach to macroeconomics.\n\nMainstream economists are not generally separated into schools, but two major contemporary orthodox economic schools of thought are the \"saltwater and freshwater schools\". The saltwater schools consist of the universities and other institutions located near the East and West Coast of the United States, such as Berkeley, Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Pennsylvania, Princeton, Columbia, Duke, Stanford and Yale. Freshwater schools include the University of Chicago, Carnegie Mellon University, the University of Rochester and the University of Minnesota. They were referred to as the \"freshwater school\" since Pittsburgh, Chicago, Rochester and Minneapolis are located nearer to the Great Lakes.\n\nThe Saltwater school is associated with Keynesian ideas of government intervention into the free market while the Freshwater schools are skeptical of the benefits of the government. Mainstream economists do not in general identify themselves as members of a particular school, but they may be associated with approaches within a field such as the rational-expectations approach to macroeconomics.\n\n"}
{"id": "734864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734864", "title": "Philips van der Aa", "text": "Philips van der Aa\n\nPhilips van der Aa (died after 1586) was a politician in the Seventeen Provinces and a statesman of the Dutch Republic during its struggle for independence, the Eighty Years' War. \n\nHe was born in Mechelen, and was mayor of the city in 1564, but was banished by the Duke of Alva. He returned on the side of William I, Prince of Orange (William the Silent). In 1572, he came back to power in Mechelen by cunning. In 1573 he was assigned as councillor at the court of Diederik Sonoy, and in 1574 he became commander in Gorkum.\n\n"}
{"id": "48346075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48346075", "title": "Piero Ciampi", "text": "Piero Ciampi\n\nPiero Ciampi (Livorno, 28 September 1934 – Rome, 19 January 1980) was an Italian singer-songwriter.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11062043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11062043", "title": "Porphyromonas gingivalis", "text": "Porphyromonas gingivalis\n\nPorphyromonas gingivalis belongs to the phylum Bacteroidetes and is a nonmotile, Gram-negative, rod-shaped, anaerobic, pathogenic bacterium. It forms black colonies on blood agar.\n\nIt is found in the oral cavity, where it is implicated in certain forms of periodontal disease, as well as in the upper gastrointestinal tract, the respiratory tract, and the colon. It has also been isolated from women with bacterial vaginosis. Collagen degradation observed in chronic periodontal disease results in part from the collagenase enzymes of this species. It has been shown in an \"in vitro\" study that \"P. gingivalis\" can invade human gingival fibroblasts and can survive in them in the presence of considerable concentrations of antibiotics. \"P. gingivalis\" also invades gingival epithelial cells in high numbers, in which cases both bacteria and epithelial cells survive for extended periods of time. \nHigh levels of specific antibodies can be detected in patients harboring \"P. gingivalis\".\n\nIn addition, \"P. gingivalis\" has been linked to rheumatoid arthritis. It contains the enzyme peptidyl-arginine deiminase, which is involved in citrullination. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have an increased incidence of periodontal disease, antibodies against the bacterium are significantly more common in these patients.\n\n\"P. gingivalis\" is divided into K-serotypes based upon capsular antigenicity of the various types.\n\nThe genome of \"P. gingivalis\" has been described in 2003 and revealed 1,990 open reading frames (i.e. protein-coding sequences), encoded by 2,343,479 bp, with an average G+C content of 48.3%. An estimated 463 genes are essential.\n\nArg-gingipain (Rgp) and lys-gingipain (Kgp) are secreted by \"P. gingivalis.\" These gingipains serve many functions for the organism, which contributes to its survival and virulence.\n\nArg-gingipains have been found to play a key role in the collection of nutrients for \"P. gingivalis\" survival. Rgp degrades large peptides of the host organism to provide the bacterium with an abundant nitrogen and carbon source from human albumin serum. \"P. gingivalis\" can also degrade transferrin within host cells which provides the organism with an abundant iron source needed to perform multiple cellular functions.\n\nThe gingipains are also responsible for a number of necessary functions related to host invasion and colonization. Rgp gingipains are necessary for adhesion and invasion as they processed precursor proteins of long fimbriae. The \"P. gingivalis\" genes encoding RgpA, Kgp, and hemagglutinin A (HagA) were strongly expressed after incubation with \"T. denticola\". The hemagglutinin adhesion domain-containing proteins act to increase adhesive capacities of \"P. gingivalis\" with other bacterial species. They are also associated with coordinating the integrity of the biofilm in the developing and maturation phase. Lys- gingipains (Kgp) can bind to immobilized matrix proteins fibrinogen and fibronectin and may have a role in host colonization.\n\nGingipains also have the ability to degrade multiple signals of the host immune response. They have the ability to cleave subclass 1 and 3 IgG antibodies as well as proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6, TNF-α and IL-8 in regions of high \"P. gingivalis\" concentration., which impairs host immune response function. Rgp can inhibit IL-2 accumulation in T-cells, which enables it to evade the host adaptive immune response, by modulating T-cell communication and proliferation.\n\nGingipains are key factors in tissue damage symptoms of periodontitis, which results from the degradation of matrix metalloproteins, collagen, and fibronectin. Degradation of these substrates interferes with interactions between host cells and the extracellular matrix, therefore impeding wound healing and causing destruction of periodontal tissues. Rgp is responsible for eliciting the host inflammatory response via the p38α MAPK transduction pathway. This response likely contributes to the inflammatory nature of periodontitis and is involved in tissue and bone destruction.\n\nThe encapsulated strain of \"P. gingivalis\" is much more virulent than the nonencapsulated strain in a mouse abscess model. The capsule is a capsular polysaccharide and when present down regulates cytokine production especially proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α, indicating host evasion responses. However, other studies have found the CPS to elicit host immune responses like PMN migration and dose and time dependent expression of cell migration chemokines like MCP-1, KC, MIP-2 and RANTES in CPS-challenged murine peritoneal macrophages. These conditions are likely to contribute to the inflammatory lesions observed in periodontitis.\n\nVaccines made from \"P. gingivalis\" CPS apparently impair oral bone loss in murine models. These vaccines have been able to elicit potent immune responses such as increased IgM and IgG responses that recognize whole \"P. gingivalis\" organisms.\n\nFimbriae are appendages involved in cellular attachment and greatly contribute to virulence and are found on many Gram-negative and some Gram-positive bacteria.\n\n\"P. gingivalis\" virulence is heavily associated with fimbriae as they have been characterized to be key factors in adhesion, invasion, and colonization. Fimbriae are also responsible for invasion of membrane vesicles into host cells. They were found to bind to cellular α5β1 integrins, which mediated adherence and impaired the homeostatic controls of host cells. Fimbriae were also found to be associated with modulating β2 integrin adhesive activity for uptake by monocytes using the CD14/TLR2/PI3K signaling complex, which may contribute to intracellular evasion tactics by \"P. gingivalis\". \"P. gingivalis\" has long fimbriae, short fimbriae, and accessory components, each of which have distinct functions.\n\nLong fimbriae (FimA), also known as major fimbriae, are long, peritrichous, filamentous components. They have a role in initial attachment and organization of biofilms, as they act as adhesins that mediate invasion and colonization of host cells contributing to \"P. gingivalis\" virulence.\n\nShort fimbriae (Mfa1), also known as minor fimbriae, have distinct roles from long fimbriae and are characterized to be essential for cell-cell auto aggregation and recruitment for microcolony formation. Short fimbriae are involved in cell-cell adhesion with other dental commensals. It was found to coadhere and develop biofilm in conjunction with \"Streptococcus gordonii\" by interaction with SspB streptococcal surface polypeptide. This interaction may be essential in the invasion of dentinal tubules by \"P. gingivalis\".\n\nFim C, D, and E accessory components associate with the main FimA protein and have a role in binding with matrix proteins and interaction with CXC-chemokine receptor 4. Loss of function experiments have confirmed that \"P. gingivalis\" mutants deficient for Fim C, D, or E have drastically attenuated virulence.\n\n\"P. gingivalis\" has many ways of evading host immune responses which affects its virulence. It does this by using a combination of gingipain proteases, a capsular polysaccharide, induction of host cell proliferation, and the cleavage of chemokines responsible for neutrophil recruitment.\n\nVirulent \"P. gingivalis\" further modulates leukocyte recruitment by proteolysis of cytokines and chemokines that are secreted by the host cells. The arg-gingipain and lys-gingipains are responsible for this proteolysis. In a study using a mouse model, \"P. gingivalis\" was specifically found to down-regulate IL-8 induction, causing delayed neutrophil recruitment. Prevention of neutrophil recruitment may inhibit the clearance of the bacterium from the site of infection allowing for colonization.\"P. gingivalis\" is able to evade opsonophagocytosis from PMN’s by using Gingipain K (Kgp) to cleave IgG 1 and 3. This further modulates immune response by impairing signaling. Other studies have found that \"P. gingivalis\" can subvert the complement pathway through C5αR and C3αR, which modulates the killing capacity of leukocytes, allowing for uncontrolled bacterial growth. \"P. gingivalis\" was also found to inhibit pro inflammatory and antimicrobial responses in human monocytes and mouse macrophages by fimbrial binding to CXCR4, inducing PKA signaling and inhibiting TLR-2-mediated immune response.\n\nOnce in the host cells, \"P. gingivalis\" is capable of inhibiting apoptosis by modulating the JAK/Stat pathway that controls mitochondrial apoptotic pathways. A proliferative phenotype maybe beneficial to the bacterium as it provides nutrients, impairs host cell signaling, and compromises the integrity of the epithelial cell layer, allowing for invasion and colonization.\n\n\"P. gingivalis\" is a “red” bacterium and a “keystone” bacterium in the onset of chronic adult periodontitis. Though it is found in low abundance in the oral cavity, it causes a microbial shift of the oral cavity, allowing for uncontrolled growth of the commensal microbial community. This leads to periodontitis through the disruption of the host tissue homeostasis and adaptive immune response. After using laser capture microdissection plus qRT-PCR to detect \"P. gingivalis\" in human biopsies, colocalization of \"P. gingivalis\" with CD4+ T cells was observed. However, the infection mechanism of T cells by \"P. gingivalis\" remains unknown.\n\n\"P. gingivalis\" has been associated with increasing the virulence of other commensal bacteria in both \"in vivo\" and \"in vitro\" experiments. \"P. gingivalis\" outer membrane vesicles were found to be necessary for the invasion of epithelial cells of \"Tannerella forsythia\". \"P. gingivalis\" short fimbriae were found to be necessary for coculture biofilm formation with \"Streptococcus gordonii\". Interproximal and horizontal alveolar bone loss in mouse models are seen in coinfections involving \"P. gingivalis\" and \"Treponema denticola\". The role of \"P. gingivalis\" as a community activist in periodontitis is seen in specific pathogen-free mouse models of periodontal infections. In these models, \"P. gingivalis\" inoculation causes significant bone loss, which is a significant characteristic of the disease. In contrast, germ free mice inoculated with a \"P. gingivalis\" monoinfection incur no bone loss, indicating that \"P. gingivalis\" alone cannot induce periodontitis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58492716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58492716", "title": "Post-work society", "text": "Post-work society\n\nIn futurology, post-work society will be a time when all jobs in the world will be automated and humans will have nothing to work.\n"}
{"id": "844530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844530", "title": "Professional ethics", "text": "Professional ethics\n\nProfessional ethics encompass the personal, and corporate standards of behavior expected by professionals.\n\nThe word professionalism originally applied to vows of a religious order. By at least the year 1675, the term had seen secular application and was applied to the three learned professions: Divinity, Law, and Medicine. The term professionalism was also used for the military profession around this same time.\n\nProfessionals and those working in acknowledged professions exercise specialist knowledge and skill. How the use of this knowledge should be governed when providing a service to the public can be considered a moral issue and is termed professional ethics.\n\nIt is capable of making judgments, applying their skills, and reaching informed decisions in situations that the general public cannot because they have not attained the necessary knowledge and skills. One of the earliest examples of professional ethics is the Hippocratic oath to which medical doctors still adhere to this day.\n\nSome professional organizations may define their ethical approach in terms of a number of discrete components. Typically these include:\n\nMost professionals have internally enforced codes of practice that members of the profession must follow to prevent exploitation of the client and to preserve the integrity of the profession. This is not only for the benefit of the client but also for the benefit of those belonging to that profession. Disciplinary codes allow the profession to define a standard of conduct and ensure that individual practitioners meet this standard, by disciplining them from the professional body if they do not practice accordingly. This allows those professionals who act with a conscience to practice in the knowledge that they will not be undermined commercially by those who have fewer ethical qualms. It also maintains the public’s trust in the profession, encouraging the public to continue seeking their services.\n\nIn cases where professional bodies regulate their own ethics, there are possibilities for such bodies to become self-serving and fail to follow their own ethical code when dealing with renegade members. This is particularly true of professions in which they have almost a complete monopoly on a particular area of knowledge. For example, until recently, the English courts deferred to the professional consensus on matters relating to their practice that lay outside case law and legislation.\n\nIn many countries there is some statutory regulation of professional ethical standards such as the statutory bodies that regulate nursing and midwifery in England and Wales. Failure to comply with these standards can thus become a matter for the courts.\n\nFor example, a lay member of the public should not be held responsible for failing to act to save a car crash victim because they could not give an appropriate emergency treatment. Though, they are responsible for attempting to get help for the victim. This is because they do not have the relevant knowledge and experience. In contrast, a fully trained doctor (with the correct equipment) would be capable of making the correct diagnosis and carrying out appropriate procedures. Failure of a doctor to not help at all in such a situation would generally be regarded as negligent and unethical. Though, if a doctor helps and makes a mistake that is considered negligent and unethical, there could be egregious repercussions. An untrained person would only be considered to be negligent for failing to act if they did nothing at all to help and is protected by the \"Good Samaritan\" laws if they unintentionally caused more damage and possible loss of life.\n\nA business may approach a professional engineer to certify the safety of a project which is not safe. While one engineer may refuse to certify the project on moral grounds, the business may find a less scrupulous engineer who will be prepared to certify the project for a bribe, thus saving the business the expense of redesigning.\n\nOn a theoretical level, there is debate as to whether an ethical code for a profession should be consistent with the requirements of morality governing the public. Separatists argue that professions should be allowed to go beyond such confines when they judge it necessary. This is because they are trained to produce certain outcomes which may take moral precedence over other functions of society. For example, it could be argued that a doctor may lie to a patient about the severity of his or her condition if there is reason to believe that telling the patient would cause so much distress that it would be detrimental to his or her health. This would be a disrespect of the patient's autonomy, as it denies the patient information that could have a great impact on his or her life. This would generally be seen as morally wrong. However, if the end of improving and maintaining health is given a moral priority in society, then it may be justifiable to contravene other moral demands in order to meet this goal. Separatism is based on a relativist conception of morality that there can be different, equally valid, moral codes that apply to different sections of society and differences in codes between societies (see moral relativism). If moral universalism is ascribed to, then this would be inconsistent with the view that professions can have a different moral code, as the universalist holds that there is only one valid moral code for all..\n\nAs attending college after high school graduation becomes a standard in the lives of young people, colleges and universities are becoming more business-like in their expectations of the students. Although people have differing opinions about if it is effective, surveys state that it is the overall goal of the university administrators. Setting up a business-like atmosphere helps students get adjusted from a more relaxed nature, like high school, towards what will be expected of them in the business world upon graduating from College.\n\nCodes of conduct, such as the St. Xavier Code of Conduct, are becoming more a staple in the academic lives of students. While some of these rules are based solely on academics others are more in depth than in previous years. Such as, detailing the level of respect expected towards staff and gambling.\n\nNot only do codes of conduct apply while attending the schools at home, but also while studying abroad. Schools also implement a code of conduct for international study abroad programs which carry over many of the same rules found in most student handbooks.\n\n"}
{"id": "443854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=443854", "title": "Rh disease", "text": "Rh disease\n\nRh disease (also known as rhesus isoimmunisation, Rh (D) disease, rhesus incompatibility, rhesus disease, RhD hemolytic disease of the newborn, rhesus D hemolytic disease of the newborn or RhD HDN) is a type of hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN). The disease ranges from mild to severe, and typically occurs only in some second or subsequent pregnancies of Rh negative women where the fetus's father is Rh positive, leading to a Rh+ pregnancy. During birth, the mother may be exposed to the infant's blood, and this causes the development of antibodies, which may affect the health of subsequent Rh+ pregnancies. In mild cases, the fetus may have mild anaemia with reticulocytosis. In moderate or severe cases the fetus may have a more marked anaemia and erythroblastosis fetalis (hemolytic disease of the newborn). When the disease is very severe it may cause hydrops fetalis or stillbirth.\n\nRh disease is generally preventable by treating the mother during pregnancy or soon after delivery with an intramuscular injection of anti-RhD immunoglobulin (Rho(D) immune globulin). The RhD protein is coded by the RHD gene.\n\nDuring any pregnancy a small amount of the baby's blood can enter the mother's circulation. If the mother is Rh negative and the baby is Rh positive, the mother produces antibodies (including IgG) against the rhesus D antigen on her baby's red blood cells. During this and subsequent pregnancies the IgG is able to pass through the placenta into the fetus and if the level of it is sufficient, it will cause destruction of rhesus D positive fetal red blood cells leading to the development of Rh disease. It may thus be regarded as insufficient immune tolerance in pregnancy. Generally rhesus disease becomes worse with each additional rhesus incompatible pregnancy.\n\nThe main and most frequent sensitizing event is child birth (about 86% of sensitized cases), but fetal blood may pass into the maternal circulation earlier during the pregnancy (about 14% of sensitized cases). Sensitizing events during pregnancy include c-section, miscarriage, therapeutic abortion, amniocentesis, ectopic pregnancy, abdominal trauma and external cephalic version. However, in many cases there was no apparent sensitizing event.\n\nThe incidence of Rh disease in a population depends on the proportion that are rhesus negative. Many non-Caucasian peoples have a very low proportion who are rhesus negative, so the incidence of Rh disease is very low in these populations. In Caucasian populations about 1 in 10 of all pregnancies are of a rhesus negative woman with a rhesus positive baby. It is very rare for the first rhesus positive baby of a rhesus negative woman to be affected by Rh disease. The first pregnancy with a rhesus positive baby is significant for a rhesus negative woman because she can be sensitized to the Rh positive antigen. In Caucasian populations about 13% of rhesus negative mothers are sensitized by their first pregnancy with a rhesus positive baby. Without modern prevention and treatment, about 5% of the second rhesus positive infants of rhesus negative women would result in stillbirths or extremely sick babies. Many babies who managed to survive would be severely ill. Even higher disease rates would occur in the third and subsequent rhesus positive infants of rhesus negative women. By using anti-RhD immunoglobulin (Rho(D) immune globulin) the incidence is massively reduced.\n\nRh disease sensitization is about 10 times more likely to occur if the fetus is ABO compatible with the mother than if the mother and fetus are ABO incompatible.\n\n\nBlood is generally drawn from the father to help determine fetal antigen status. If he is homozygous for the antigen, there is a 100% chance of all offspring in the pairing to be positive for the antigen and at risk for HDN. If he is heterozygous, there is a 50% chance of offspring to be positive for the antigen. This test can help with knowledge for the current baby, as well as aid in the decision about future pregnancies. With RhD, the test is called the RhD genotype. With RhCE, and Kell antigen it is called an antigen phenotype.\n\n\nIn some cases, the direct coombs will be negative but severe, even fatal HDN can occur. An indirect coombs needs to be run in cases of anti-C, anti-c, and anti-M. Anti-M also recommends antigen testing to rule out the presence of HDN. \n\nMost Rh disease can be prevented by treating the mother during pregnancy or promptly (within 72 hours) after childbirth. The mother has an intramuscular injection of anti-Rh antibodies (Rho(D) immune globulin). This is done so that the fetal rhesus D positive erythrocytes are destroyed before the immune system of the mother can discover them and become sensitized. This is passive immunity and the effect of the immunity will wear off after about 4 to 6 weeks (or longer depending on injected dose) as the anti-Rh antibodies gradually decline to zero in the maternal blood.\n\nIt is part of modern antenatal care to give all rhesus D negative pregnant women an anti-RhD IgG immunoglobulin injection at about 28 weeks gestation (with or without a booster at 34 weeks gestation). This reduces the effect of the vast majority of sensitizing events which mostly occur after 28 weeks gestation. Giving Anti-D to all Rhesus negative pregnant women can mean giving it to mothers who do not need it (because her baby is Rhesus negative or their blood did not mix). Many countries routinely give Anti-D to Rhesus D negative women in pregnancy. In other countries, stocks of Anti-D can run short or even run out. Before Anti-D is made routine in these countries, stocks should be readily available so that it is available for women who need Anti-D in an emergency situation.\n\nA recent review found research into giving Anti-D to all Rhesus D negative pregnant women is of low quality. However the research did suggest that the risk of the mother producing antibodies to attack Rhesus D positive fetal cells was lower in mothers who had the Anti-D in pregnancy. There were also fewer mothers with a positive Kleihauer–Betke test (which shows if the mother’s and unborn baby’s blood has mixed).\nAnti-RhD immunoglobulin is also given to non-sensitized rhesus negative women immediately (within 72 hours—the sooner the better) after potentially sensitizing events that occur earlier in pregnancy.\n\nThe discovery of cell-free DNA in the maternal plasma has allowed for the non-invasive determination of the fetal RHD genotype. In May 2017, the Society for Obstetrics and Gynecology of Canada is now recommending that the optimal management of the D-negative pregnant woman is based on the prediction of the fetal D-blood group by cell-free DNA in maternal plasma with targeted antenatal anti-D prophylaxis. This provides the optimal care for D-negative pregnant women and has been adopted as the standard approach in a growing number of countries around the world. It is no longer considered appropriate to treat all D-negative pregnant women with human plasma derivatives when there are no benefits to her or to the fetus in a substantial percentage of cases.\n\n\n\nThe rhesus blood type was first discovered in 1937 by Karl Landsteiner and Alexander S. Wiener, who listed it in and alongside their tables for blood-typing and cross-matching.\n\nIn 1939 Philip Levine and Rufus E. Stetson published their findings about a family who had a stillborn baby who died of hemolytic disease of the newborn. The mother was aged 25 and it was her second pregnancy and she suffered blood loss at the delivery. Both parents were blood group O and the husband's blood was used to give the mother a blood transfusion, but the mother suffered a severe transfusion reaction. They investigated this transfusion reaction. Since the mother and the father were both blood group O, they concluded that there must be a previously undiscovered blood group antigen that was present on the husband's RBCs (red blood cells) but was not present on the mother's RBCs and that the mother had formed antibodies against the new blood group antigen. This suggested for the \"first time\" that a mother could make blood group antibodies because of immune sensitization to her fetus's RBCs. They did not name this blood group antigen, but it was subsequently found to be the rhesus factor.\n\nIn 1941, Group O: a patient of Dr. Paul in Irvington, NJ, delivered a normal infant in 1931: this pregnancy was followed by a long period of sterility. The second pregnancy (April, 1941) resulted in an infant suffering icterus gravis. In May 1941, the third anti-Rh serum (M.S.) of Group O became available. \n\nThe first treatment for Rh disease was an exchange transfusion, which was invented by Alexander S. Wiener. That procedure was further refined by Harry Wallerstein, a transfusionist. Although the most effective method of treating the problem at the time, it was only partially ameliorative in cases where damage to the neonate had already been done. Children with severe motor damage and/or retardation could result. However, it is estimated that in the two decades it was used approximately 200,000 lives were saved, and the great majority were not brain damaged.\n\nRonald Finn, in Liverpool, England applied a microscopic technique for detecting fetal cells in the mother's blood. It led him to propose that the disease might be prevented by injecting the at-risk mother with an antibody against fetal red blood cells. He proposed this for the first time to the public on February 18, 1960. A few months later, he proposed at a meeting of the British Genetical Society that the antibody be anti-RhD.\n\nNearly simultaneously with him, William Pollack, then of Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, and researchers John Gorman and Vincent Freda of New York City's Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, having come to the same realization, set out to prove it by injecting a group of male prisoners at Sing Sing Correctional Facility with antibody provided by Ortho, obtained by a fractionation technique developed by Pollack (who also provided Finn with several vials of antibody during a visit by Finn to Ortho).\n\nAnimal studies had previously been conducted by William Pollack, using a rabbit model of Rh. This model, named the rabbit HgA-F system, was a perfect animal model of human Rh, and enabled Pollack's team to gain experience in preventing hemolytic disease in rabbits by giving specific HgA antibody, as was later done with Rh-negative mothers. One of the needs was a dosing experiment that could be used to determine the level of circulating Rh-positive cells in an Rh-negative pregnant female derived from her Rh-positive fetus. This was first done in the rabbit system, but subsequent human tests at the University of Manitoba conducted under Pollack's direction confirmed that this result matched the human dosing perfectly. The dose is 20 µG of antibody for 1mL of Rh-positive red cells.\n\nSir William Liley performed the first successful intrauterine transfusion in 1972.\n\nGorman's sister-in-law was the first at risk woman to receive a prophylactic injection on January 31, 1964. Clinical trials set up by Pollack in 42 clinical centers in the US, Great Britain, Germany, Sweden, Italy, and Australia confirmed their hypothesis, and the vaccine was finally approved in England and the United States in 1968. The FDA approved the drug under the name RhoGAM, with a fixed dose of 300 µG, to be given within three days postpartum. There being no known harm done by delaying the dosage for a week or more after birth, Ortho asked the FDA to grant permission for it to be given without a postpartum time restriction. In addition, John M. Bowman, one of the researchers at the University of Manitoba, and Freda pushed to allow antepartum use. All of this was subsequently granted. Within a year or so, the antibody had been injected with great success into more than 500,000 women. Time magazine picked it as one of the top ten medical achievements of the 1960s. By 1973, it was estimated that in the US alone, over 50,000 babies' lives had been saved. The use of Rh immune globulin to prevent the disease in babies of Rh negative mothers has become standard practice, and the disease, which used to claim the lives of 10,000 babies each year in the US alone, has been virtually eradicated in the developed world. The achievement was made almost entirely without support from the NIH, who rejected the New York group's proposal twice. The group got instead only a small grant ($329,765 over 10 years) from the City of New York. The total cost of the effort was only a couple of million dollars, which is about the cost of the life-time care of a half-dozen irreparably brain-damaged children. In 1980, Cyril Clarke, Ronald Finn, John Gorman, Vincent Freda, and William Pollack each received an Albert Lasker Award for Clinical Medical Research for their work on rhesus blood types and the prevention of Rh disease.\n\nTwo of the Canadian researchers from the University of Manitoba, Bruce Chown, John M. Bowman and under the leadership of the President of the Winnipeg Rh Institute, Albert D. Friesen, PhD, licensed a version of the vaccine, known as WinRho, in 1980. The drug is sold in 35 countries by the Manitoba-based research firm Cangene, listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange with worth of about $175 million. Cangene was purchased by the Winnipeg Rh Institute, a facility founded by Chown and Bowman and dedicated to conducting research into blood related diseases. Chown is honored by the Canadian Medical Hall of Fame for his lifelong work with erythroblastosis fetalis.\n\nJames Harrison, OAM, also known as the Man with the golden arm, is a blood plasma donor from Australia. He has made over 1000 donations throughout his lifetime, and these donations are estimated to have saved over two million unborn babies from the condition. Up to 2015, every batch of anti-D in Australia was made from his blood.\n\nOnce a woman has antibodies, she is at high risk for a transfusion reaction. For this reason, she must carry a medical alert card at all times and inform all doctors of her antibody status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28153", "title": "Search for extraterrestrial intelligence", "text": "Search for extraterrestrial intelligence\n\nThe search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) is a collective term for scientific searches for intelligent extraterrestrial life, for example, monitoring electromagnetic radiation for signs of transmissions from civilizations on other planets.\n\nScientific investigation began shortly after the advent of radio in the early 1900s, and focused international efforts have been going on since the 1980s. In 2015 Stephen Hawking and Russian billionaire Yuri Milner announced a well-funded effort called the Breakthrough Initiatives.\n\nThere have been many earlier searches for extraterrestrial intelligence within the Solar System. In 1896, Nikola Tesla suggested that an extreme version of his wireless electrical transmission system could be used to contact beings on Mars. In 1899, while conducting experiments at his Colorado Springs experimental station, he thought he had detected a signal from that planet since an odd repetitive static signal seemed to cut off when Mars set in the night sky. Analysis of Tesla's research has ranged from suggestions that Tesla detected nothing, he simply misunderstood the new technology he was working with, to claims that Tesla may have been observing signals from Marconi's European radio experiments and even that he could have picked up naturally occurring Jovian plasma torus signals. In the early 1900s, Guglielmo Marconi, Lord Kelvin and David Peck Todd also stated their belief that radio could be used to contact Martians, with Marconi stating that his stations had also picked up potential Martian signals.\n\nOn August 21–23, 1924, Mars entered an opposition closer to Earth than at any time in the century before or the next 80 years. In the United States, a \"National Radio Silence Day\" was promoted during a 36-hour period from August 21–23, with all radios quiet for five minutes on the hour, every hour. At the United States Naval Observatory, a radio receiver was lifted above the ground in a dirigible tuned to a wavelength between 8 and 9 km, using a \"radio-camera\" developed by Amherst College and Charles Francis Jenkins. The program was led by David Peck Todd with the military assistance of Admiral Edward W. Eberle (Chief of Naval Operations), with William F. Friedman (chief cryptographer of the United States Army), assigned to translate any potential Martian messages.\n\nA 1959 paper by Philip Morrison and Giuseppe Cocconi first pointed out the possibility of searching the microwave spectrum, and proposed frequencies and a set of initial targets.\n\nIn 1960, Cornell University astronomer Frank Drake performed the first modern SETI experiment, named \"Project Ozma\", after the Queen of Oz in L. Frank Baum's fantasy books. Drake used a radio telescope in diameter at Green Bank, West Virginia, to examine the stars Tau Ceti and Epsilon Eridani near the 1.420 gigahertz marker frequency, a region of the radio spectrum dubbed the \"water hole\" due to its proximity to the hydrogen and hydroxyl radical spectral lines. A 400 kilohertz band around the marker frequency was scanned, using a single-channel receiver with a bandwidth of 100 hertz. He found nothing of interest.\n\nSoviet scientists took a strong interest in SETI during the 1960s and performed a number of searches with omnidirectional antennas in the hope of picking up powerful radio signals. Soviet astronomer Iosif Shklovsky wrote the pioneering book in the field, \"Universe, Life, Intelligence\" (1962), which was expanded upon by American astronomer Carl Sagan as the best-selling book \"Intelligent Life in the Universe\" (1966).\n\nIn the March 1955 issue of \"Scientific American\", John D. Kraus described an idea to scan the cosmos for natural radio signals using a flat-plane radio telescope equipped with a parabolic reflector. Within two years, his concept was approved for construction by Ohio State University. With a total of US$71,000 in grants from the National Science Foundation, construction began on an plot in Delaware, Ohio. This Ohio State University Radio Observatory telescope was called \"Big Ear\". Later, it began the world's first continuous SETI program, called the Ohio State University SETI program.\n\nIn 1971, NASA funded a SETI study that involved Drake, Bernard M. Oliver of Hewlett-Packard Corporation, and others. The resulting report proposed the construction of an Earth-based radio telescope array with 1,500 dishes known as \"Project Cyclops\". The price tag for the Cyclops array was US$10 billion. Cyclops was not built, but the report formed the basis of much SETI work that followed.\n\nThe Ohio State SETI program gained fame on August 15, 1977, when Jerry Ehman, a project volunteer, witnessed a startlingly strong signal received by the telescope. He quickly circled the indication on a printout and scribbled the exclamation \"Wow!\" in the margin. Dubbed the \"Wow! signal\", it is considered by some to be the best candidate for a radio signal from an artificial, extraterrestrial source ever discovered, but it has not been detected again in several additional searches.\n\nIn 1980, Carl Sagan, Bruce Murray, and Louis Friedman founded the U.S. Planetary Society, partly as a vehicle for SETI studies.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Harvard University physicist Paul Horowitz took the next step and proposed the design of a spectrum analyzer specifically intended to search for SETI transmissions. Traditional desktop spectrum analyzers were of little use for this job, as they sampled frequencies using banks of analog filters and so were restricted in the number of channels they could acquire. However, modern integrated-circuit digital signal processing (DSP) technology could be used to build autocorrelation receivers to check far more channels. This work led in 1981 to a portable spectrum analyzer named \"Suitcase SETI\" that had a capacity of 131,000 narrow band channels. After field tests that lasted into 1982, Suitcase SETI was put into use in 1983 with the Harvard/Smithsonian radio telescope at Oak Ridge Observatory in Harvard, Massachusetts. This project was named \"Sentinel\" and continued into 1985.\n\nEven 131,000 channels were not enough to search the sky in detail at a fast rate, so Suitcase SETI was followed in 1985 by Project \"META\", for \"Megachannel Extra-Terrestrial Assay\". The META spectrum analyzer had a capacity of 8.4 million channels and a channel resolution of 0.05 hertz. An important feature of META was its use of frequency Doppler shift to distinguish between signals of terrestrial and extraterrestrial origin. The project was led by Horowitz with the help of the Planetary Society, and was partly funded by movie maker Steven Spielberg. A second such effort, META II, was begun in Argentina in 1990, to search the southern sky. META II is still in operation, after an equipment upgrade in 1996.\n\nThe follow-on to META was named \"BETA\", for \"Billion-channel Extraterrestrial Assay\", and it commenced observation on October 30, 1995. The heart of BETA's processing capability consisted of 63 dedicated fast Fourier transform (FFT) engines, each capable of performing a 2-point complex FFTs in two seconds, and 21 general-purpose personal computers equipped with custom digital signal processing boards. This allowed BETA to receive 250 million simultaneous channels with a resolution of 0.5 hertz per channel. It scanned through the microwave spectrum from 1.400 to 1.720 gigahertz in eight hops, with two seconds of observation per hop. An important capability of the BETA search was rapid and automatic re-observation of candidate signals, achieved by observing the sky with two adjacent beams, one slightly to the east and the other slightly to the west. A successful candidate signal would first transit the east beam, and then the west beam and do so with a speed consistent with Earth's sidereal rotation rate. A third receiver observed the horizon to veto signals of obvious terrestrial origin. On March 23, 1999, the 26-meter radio telescope on which Sentinel, META and BETA were based was blown over by strong winds and seriously damaged. This forced the BETA project to cease operation.\n\nIn 1978, the NASA SETI program had been heavily criticized by Senator William Proxmire, and funding for SETI research was removed from the NASA budget by Congress in 1981; however, funding was restored in 1982, after Carl Sagan talked with Proxmire and convinced him of the program's value. In 1992, the U.S. government funded an operational SETI program, in the form of the NASA Microwave Observing Program (MOP). MOP was planned as a long-term effort to conduct a general survey of the sky and also carry out targeted searches of 800 specific nearby stars. MOP was to be performed by radio antennas associated with the NASA Deep Space Network, as well as the radio telescope of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory at Green Bank, West Virginia and the radio telescope at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. The signals were to be analyzed by spectrum analyzers, each with a capacity of 15 million channels. These spectrum analyzers could be grouped together to obtain greater capacity. Those used in the targeted search had a bandwidth of 1 hertz per channel, while those used in the sky survey had a bandwidth of 30 hertz per channel.\n\nMOP drew the attention of the United States Congress, where the program was ridiculed and canceled one year after its start. SETI advocates continued without government funding, and in 1995 the nonprofit SETI Institute of Mountain View, California resurrected the MOP program under the name of Project \"Phoenix\", backed by private sources of funding. Project Phoenix, under the direction of Jill Tarter, is a continuation of the targeted search program from MOP and studies roughly 1,000 nearby Sun-like stars. From 1995 through March 2004, Phoenix conducted observations at the Parkes radio telescope in Australia, the radio telescope of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Green Bank, West Virginia, and the radio telescope at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. The project observed the equivalent of 800 stars over the available channels in the frequency range from 1200 to 3000 MHz. The search was sensitive enough to pick up transmitters with 1 GW EIRP to a distance of about 200 light-years. According to Prof. Tarter, in 2012 it costs around \"$2 million per year to keep SETI research going at the SETI Institute\" and approximately 10 times that to support \"all kinds of SETI activity around the world\".\n\nMany radio frequencies penetrate Earth's atmosphere quite well, and this led to radio telescopes that investigate the cosmos using large radio antennas. Furthermore, human endeavors emit considerable electromagnetic radiation as a byproduct of communications such as television and radio. These signals would be easy to recognize as artificial due to their repetitive nature and narrow bandwidths. If this is typical, one way of discovering an extraterrestrial civilization might be to detect artificial radio emissions from a location outside the Solar System.\n\nMany international radio telescopes are currently being used for radio SETI searches, including the Low Frequency Array (LOFAR) in Europe, the Murchison Widefield Array (MWA) in Australia, and the Lovell Telescope in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe SETI Institute collaborated with the Radio Astronomy Laboratory at the Berkeley SETI Research Center to develop a specialized radio telescope array for SETI studies, something like a mini-cyclops array. Formerly known as the One Hectare Telescope (1HT), the concept was renamed the \"Allen Telescope Array\" (ATA) after the project's benefactor Paul Allen. Its sensitivity would be equivalent to a single large dish more than 100 meters in diameter if completed. Presently, the array under construction has 42 dishes at the Hat Creek Radio Observatory in rural northern California.\n\nThe full array (ATA-350) is planned to consist of 350 or more offset-Gregorian radio dishes, each in diameter. These dishes are the largest producible with commercially available satellite television dish technology. The ATA was planned for a 2007 completion date, at a very modest cost of US$25 million. The SETI Institute provided money for building the ATA while University of California, Berkeley designed the telescope and provided operational funding. The first portion of the array (ATA-42) became operational in October 2007 with 42 antennas. The DSP system planned for ATA-350 is extremely ambitious. Completion of the full 350 element array will depend on funding and the technical results from ATA-42.\n\nATA-42 (ATA) is designed to allow multiple observers simultaneous access to the interferometer output at the same time. Typically, the ATA snapshot imager (used for astronomical surveys and SETI) is run in parallel with the beam forming system (used primarily for SETI). ATA also supports observations in multiple synthesized pencil beams at once, through a technique known as \"multibeaming\". Multibeaming provides an effective filter for identifying false positives in SETI, since a very distant transmitter must appear at only one point on the sky.\n\nSETI Institute's Center for SETI Research (CSR) uses ATA in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence, observing 12 hours a day, 7 days a week. From 2007-2015, ATA has identified hundreds of millions of technological signals. So far, all these signals have been assigned the status of noise or radio frequency interference because a) they appear to be generated by satellites or Earth-based transmitters, or b) they disappeared before the threshold time limit of ~1 hour. Researchers in CSR are presently working on ways to reduce the threshold time limit, and to expand ATA's capabilities for detection of signals that may have embedded messages.\n\nBerkeley astronomers used the ATA to pursue several science topics, some of which might have turned up transient SETI signals, until 2011, when the collaboration between the University of California and the SETI Institute was terminated.\n\nCNET published an article and pictures about the Allen Telescope Array (ATA) on December 12, 2008.\n\nIn April 2011, the ATA was forced to enter an 8-month \"hibernation\" due to funding shortfalls. Regular operation of the ATA was resumed on December 5, 2011.\n\nIn 2012, new life was breathed into the ATA thanks to a $3.6M philanthropic donation by Franklin Antonio, Co-Founder and Chief Scientist of QUALCOMM Incorporated. This gift supports upgrades of all the receivers on the ATA dishes to have dramatically (2x - 10x from 1–8 GHz) greater sensitivity than before and supporting sensitive observations over a wider frequency range from 1–18 GHz, though initially the radio frequency electronics go to only 12 GHz. As of July, 2013 the first of these receivers was installed and proven. Full installation on all 42 antennas is expected in June, 2014. ATA is especially well suited to the search for extraterrestrial intelligence SETI and to discovery of astronomical radio sources, such as heretofore unexplained non-repeating, possibly extragalactic, pulses known as fast radio bursts or FRBs.\n\nSERENDIP (Search for Extraterrestrial Radio Emissions from Nearby Developed Intelligent Populations) is a SETI program launched in 1979 by the Berkeley SETI Research Center. SERENDIP takes advantage of ongoing \"mainstream\" radio telescope observations as a \"piggy-back\" or \"commensal\" program, using large radio telescopes including the NRAO 90m telescope at Green Bank and the Arecibo 305m telescope. Rather than having its own observation program, SERENDIP analyzes deep space radio telescope data that it obtains while other astronomers are using the telescopes.\n\nThe most recently deployed SERENDIP spectrometer, SERENDIP V.v, was installed at the Arecibo Observatory in June 2009 and is currently operational. The digital back-end instrument is an FPGA-based 128 million-channel digital spectrometer covering 200 MHz of bandwidth. It takes data commensally with the seven-beam Arecibo L-band Feed Array (ALFA). The program has found around 400 suspicious signals, but there is not enough data to prove that they belong to extraterrestrial intelligence.\n\n\"Breakthrough Listen\" is a ten-year initiative with $100 million funding begun in July 2015 to actively search for intelligent extraterrestrial communications in the universe, in a substantially expanded way, using resources that had not previously been extensively used for the purpose. It has been described as the most comprehensive search for alien communications to date. The science program for Breakthrough Listen is based at Berkeley SETI Research Center, located in the Astronomy Department at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nAnnounced in July 2015, the project is observing for thousands of hours every year on two major radio telescopes, the Green Bank Observatory in West Virginia and the Parkes Observatory in Australia. Previously, only about 24 to 36 hours of telescope per year was used in the search for alien life. Furthermore, the Automated Planet Finder at Lick Observatory is searching for optical signals coming from laser transmissions. The massive data rates from the radio telescopes (24 GB/s at Green Bank) necessitated the construction of dedicated hardware at the telescopes to perform the bulk of the analysis. Some of the data are also analyzed by volunteers in the SETI@home distributed computing network. Founder of modern SETI Frank Drake is one of the scientists on the project's advisory committee.\n\nChina's 500 meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST) lists \"detecting interstellar communication signals\" as part of its science mission. It is funded by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and managed by the National Astronomical observatories (NAOC) of Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). FAST is the first radio observatory built with SETI as a core scientific goal. FAST consists of a fixed diameter spherical dish constructed in a natural depression sinkhole caused by karst processes in the region. It is the world's largest filled-aperture radio telescope.\nAccording to its website, FAST could search out to 28 light-years, and would be able to reach 1400 stars. If the transmitter's radiated power is increased to 1000,000 MW, FAST would be able to reach one million stars. This is compared to the Arecibo 305 meter telescope detection distance of 18 light-years.\n\nSETI@home was conceived by David Gedye along with Craig Kasnoff and is a popular volunteer distributed computing project that was launched by the Berkeley SETI Research Center at the University of California, Berkeley, in May 1999. It was originally funded by The Planetary Society and Paramount Pictures, and later by the state of California. The project is run by director David P. Anderson and chief scientist Dan Werthimer. Any individual can become involved with SETI research by downloading the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing (BOINC) software program, attaching to the SETI@home project, and allowing the program to run as a background process that uses idle computer power. The SETI@home program itself runs signal analysis on a \"work unit\" of data recorded from the central 2.5 MHz wide band of the SERENDIP IV instrument. After computation on the work unit is complete, the results are then automatically reported back to SETI@home servers at University of California, Berkeley. By June 28, 2009, the SETI@home project had over 180,000 active participants volunteering a total of over 290,000 computers. These computers give SETI@home an average computational power of 617 teraFLOPS. In 2004 radio source SHGb02+14a set off speculation in the media that a signal had been detected but researchers noted the frequency drifted rapidly and the detection on three SETI@home computers fell within random chance.\n\nAs of 2010, after 10 years of data collection, SETI@home has listened to that one frequency at every point of over 67 percent of the sky observable from Arecibo with at least three scans (out of the goal of nine scans), which covers about 20 percent of the full celestial sphere.\n\nSETI Net is a private search system created by a single individual. It is closely affiliated with the SETI League and is one of the project Argus stations (DM12jw).\n\nThe SETI Net station consists of off-the-shelf, consumer-grade electronics to minimize cost and to allow this design to be replicated as simply as possible. It has a 3-meter parabolic antenna that can be directed in azimuth and elevation, an LNA that covers the 1420 MHz spectrum, a receiver to reproduce the wideband audio, and a standard personal computer as the control device and for deploying the detection algorithms.\n\nThe antenna can be pointed and locked to one sky location, enabling the system to integrate on it for long periods. Currently the Wow! signal area is being monitored when it is above the horizon. All search data are collected and made available on the Internet archive.\n\nSETI Net started operation in the early 1980s as a way to learn about the science of the search, and has developed several software packages for the amateur SETI community. It has provided an astronomical clock, a file manager to keep track of SETI data files, a spectrum analyzer optimized for amateur SETI, remote control of the station from the Internet, and other packages.\n\nFounded in 1994 in response to the United States Congress cancellation of the NASA SETI program, The SETI League, Inc. is a membership-supported nonprofit organization with 1,500 members in 62 countries. This grass-roots alliance of amateur and professional radio astronomers is headed by executive director emeritus H. Paul Shuch, the engineer credited with developing the world's first commercial home satellite TV receiver. Many SETI League members are licensed radio amateurs and microwave experimenters. Others are digital signal processing experts and computer enthusiasts.\n\nThe SETI League pioneered the conversion of backyard satellite TV dishes in diameter into research-grade radio telescopes of modest sensitivity. The organization concentrates on coordinating a global network of small, amateur-built radio telescopes under Project Argus, an all-sky survey seeking to achieve real-time coverage of the entire sky. Project Argus was conceived as a continuation of the all-sky survey component of the late NASA SETI program (the targeted search having been continued by the SETI Institute's Project Phoenix). There are currently 143 Project Argus radio telescopes operating in 27 countries. Project Argus instruments typically exhibit sensitivity on the order of 10 Watts/square metre, or roughly equivalent to that achieved by the Ohio State University Big Ear radio telescope in 1977, when it detected the landmark \"Wow!\" candidate signal.\n\nThe name \"Argus\" derives from the mythical Greek guard-beast who had 100 eyes, and could see in all directions at once. In the SETI context, the name has been used for radio telescopes in fiction (Arthur C. Clarke, \"Imperial Earth\"; Carl Sagan, \"Contact\"), was the name initially used for the NASA study ultimately known as \"Cyclops,\" and is the name given to an omnidirectional radio telescope design being developed at the Ohio State University.\n\nWhile most SETI sky searches have studied the radio spectrum, some SETI researchers have considered the possibility that alien civilizations might be using powerful lasers for interstellar communications at optical wavelengths. The idea was first suggested by R. N. Schwartz and Charles Hard Townes in a 1961 paper published in the journal \"Nature\" titled \"Interstellar and Interplanetary Communication by Optical Masers\". However, the 1971 Cyclops study discounted the possibility of optical SETI, reasoning that construction of a laser system that could outshine the bright central star of a remote star system would be too difficult. In 1983, Townes published a detailed study of the idea in the United States journal \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", which was met with widespread agreement by the SETI community.\n\nThere are two problems with optical SETI. The first problem is that lasers are highly \"monochromatic\", that is, they emit light only on one frequency, making it troublesome to figure out what frequency to look for. However, emitting light in narrow pulses results in a broad spectrum of emission; the spread in frequency becomes higher as the pulse width becomes narrower, making it easier to detect an emission.\n\nThe other problem is that while radio transmissions can be broadcast in all directions, lasers are highly directional. Interstellar gas and dust is almost transparent to near infrared, so these signals can be seen from greater distances, but the extraterrestrial laser signals would need to be transmitted in the direction of Earth in order to be detected.\n\nOptical SETI supporters have conducted paper studies of the effectiveness of using contemporary high-energy lasers and a ten-meter diameter mirror as an interstellar beacon. The analysis shows that an infrared pulse from a laser, focused into a narrow beam by such a mirror, would appear thousands of times brighter than the Sun to a distant civilization in the beam's line of fire. The Cyclops study proved incorrect in suggesting a laser beam would be inherently hard to see.\n\nSuch a system could be made to automatically steer itself through a target list, sending a pulse to each target at a constant rate. This would allow targeting of all Sun-like stars within a distance of 100 light-years. The studies have also described an automatic laser pulse detector system with a low-cost, two-meter mirror made of carbon composite materials, focusing on an array of light detectors. This automatic detector system could perform sky surveys to detect laser flashes from civilizations attempting contact.\n\nSeveral optical SETI experiments are now in progress. A Harvard-Smithsonian group that includes Paul Horowitz designed a laser detector and mounted it on Harvard's optical telescope. This telescope is currently being used for a more conventional star survey, and the optical SETI survey is \"piggybacking\" on that effort. Between October 1998 and November 1999, the survey inspected about 2,500 stars. Nothing that resembled an intentional laser signal was detected, but efforts continue. The Harvard-Smithsonian group is now working with Princeton University to mount a similar detector system on Princeton's 91-centimeter (36-inch) telescope. The Harvard and Princeton telescopes will be \"ganged\" to track the same targets at the same time, with the intent being to detect the same signal in both locations as a means of reducing errors from detector noise.\n\nThe Harvard-Smithsonian SETI group led by Professor Paul Horowitz built a dedicated all-sky optical survey system along the lines of that described above, featuring a 1.8-meter (72-inch) telescope. The new optical SETI survey telescope is being set up at the Oak Ridge Observatory in Harvard, Massachusetts.\n\nThe University of California, Berkeley, home of SERENDIP and SETI@home, is also conducting optical SETI searches and collaborates with the NIROSETI program. The optical SETI program at Breakthrough Listen is being directed by Geoffrey Marcy, an extrasolar planet hunter, and it involves examination of records of spectra taken during extrasolar planet hunts for a continuous, rather than pulsed, laser signal. This survey uses the Automated Planet Finder 2.4-m telescope at the Lick Observatory, situated on the summit of Mount Hamilton, east of San Jose, California, USA. The other Berkeley optical SETI effort is being pursued by the Harvard-Smithsonian group and is being directed by Dan Werthimer of Berkeley, who built the laser detector for the Harvard-Smithsonian group. This survey uses a 76-centimeter (30-inch) automated telescope at Leuschner Observatory and an older laser detector built by Werthimer.\n\nIn May 2017, astronomers reported studies related to laser light emissions from stars, as a way of detecting technology-related signals from an alien civilization. The reported studies included KIC 8462852, an oddly dimming star in which its unusual starlight fluctuations may be the result of interference by an artificial megastructure, such as a Dyson swarm, made by such a civilization. No evidence was found for technology-related signals from KIC 8462852 in the studies.\n\nGamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are candidates for extraterrestrial communication. These high-energy bursts are observed about once per day and originate throughout the observable universe. SETI currently omits gamma ray frequencies in their monitoring and analysis because they are absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere and difficult to detect with ground-based receivers. In addition, the wide burst bandwidths pose a serious analysis challenge for modern digital signal processing systems. Still, the continued mysteries surrounding gamma-ray bursts have encouraged hypotheses invoking extraterrestrials. John A. Ball from the MIT Haystack Observatory suggests that an advanced civilization that has reached a technological singularity would be capable of transmitting a two-millisecond pulse encoding bits of information. This is \"comparable to the estimated total information content of Earth's biosystem—genes and memes and including all libraries and computer media\".\n\nThe possibility of using interstellar messenger probes in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence was first suggested by Ronald N. Bracewell in 1960 (see Bracewell probe), and the technical feasibility of this approach was demonstrated by the British Interplanetary Society's starship study Project Daedalus in 1978. Starting in 1979, Robert Freitas advanced arguments for the proposition that physical space-probes are a superior mode of interstellar communication to radio signals. See Voyager Golden Record.\n\nIn recognition that any sufficiently advanced interstellar probe in the vicinity of Earth could easily monitor the terrestrial Internet, Invitation to ETI was established by Prof. Allen Tough in 1996, as a Web-based SETI experiment inviting such spacefaring probes to establish contact with humanity. The project's 100 Signatories includes prominent physical, biological, and social scientists, as well as artists, educators, entertainers, philosophers and futurists. Prof. H. Paul Shuch, executive director emeritus of The SETI League, serves as the project's Principal Investigator.\n\nInscribing a message in matter and transporting it to an interstellar destination can be enormously more energy efficient than communication using electromagnetic waves if delays larger than light transit time can be tolerated. That said, for simple messages such as \"hello,\" radio SETI could be far more efficient. If energy requirement is used as a proxy for technical difficulty, then a solarcentric Search for Extraterrestrial Artifacts (SETA) may be a useful supplement to traditional radio or optical searches.\n\nMuch like the \"preferred frequency\" concept in SETI radio beacon theory, the Earth-Moon or Sun-Earth libration orbits might therefore constitute the most universally convenient parking places for automated extraterrestrial spacecraft exploring arbitrary stellar systems. A viable long-term SETI program may be founded upon a search for these objects.\n\nIn 1979, Freitas and Valdes conducted a photographic search of the vicinity of the Earth-Moon triangular libration points and , and of the solar-synchronized positions in the associated halo orbits, seeking possible orbiting extraterrestrial interstellar probes, but found nothing to a detection limit of about 14th magnitude. The authors conducted a second, more comprehensive photographic search for probes in 1982 that examined the five Earth-Moon Lagrangian positions and included the solar-synchronized positions in the stable L4/L5 libration orbits, the potentially stable nonplanar orbits near L1/L2, Earth-Moon , and also in the Sun-Earth system. Again no extraterrestrial probes were found to limiting magnitudes of 17–19th magnitude near L3/L4/L5, 10–18th magnitude for /, and 14–16th magnitude for Sun-Earth .\n\nIn June 1983, Valdes and Freitas used the 26 m radiotelescope at Hat Creek Radio Observatory to search for the tritium hyperfine line at 1516 MHz from 108 assorted astronomical objects, with emphasis on 53 nearby stars including all visible stars within a 20 light-year radius. The tritium frequency was deemed highly attractive for SETI work because (1) the isotope is cosmically rare, (2) the tritium hyperfine line is centered in the SETI waterhole region of the terrestrial microwave window, and (3) in addition to beacon signals, tritium hyperfine emission may occur as a byproduct of extensive nuclear fusion energy production by extraterrestrial civilizations. The wideband- and narrowband-channel observations achieved sensitivities of 5–14 x 10 W/m²/channel and 0.7-2 x 10 W/m²/channel, respectively, but no detections were made.\n\nTechnosignatures, including all signs of technology with the exception of the interstellar radio messages that define traditional SETI, are a recent avenue in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence. Technosignatures may originate from various sources, from megastructures such as Dyson spheres and space mirrors or space shaders to the atmospheric contamination created by an industrial civilization, or city lights on extrasolar planets, and may be detectable in the future with large hypertelescopes.\n\nTechnosignatures can be divided into three broad categories: astroengineering projects, signals of planetary origin, and spacecraft within and outside the Solar System.\n\nAn astroengineering installation such as a Dyson sphere, designed to convert all of the incident radiation of its host star into energy, could be detected through the observation of an infrared excess from a solar analog star, or by the star's apparent disappearance in the visible spectrum over several years. After examining some 100,000 nearby large galaxies, a team of researchers has concluded that none of them display any obvious signs of highly advanced technological civilizations.\n\nAnother hypothetical form of astroengineering, the Shkadov thruster, moves its host star by reflecting some of the star's light back on itself, and would be detected by observing if its transits across the star abruptly end with the thruster in front. Asteroid mining within the Solar System is also a detectable technosignature of the first kind.\n\nIndividual extrasolar planets can be analyzed for signs of technology. Avi Loeb of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics has proposed that persistent light signals on the night side of an exoplanet can be an indication of the presence of cities and an advanced civilization. In addition, the excess infrared radiation and chemicals produced by various industrial processes or terraforming efforts may point to intelligence.\n\nLight and heat detected from planets need to be distinguished from natural sources to conclusively prove the existence of civilization on a planet. However, as argued by the Colossus team,\na civilization heat signature should be within a \"comfortable\" temperature range, like terrestrial urban heat islands, i.e. only a few degrees warmer than the planet itself. In contrast, such natural sources as wild fires, volcanoes, etc. are significantly hotter, so they will be well distinguished by their maximum flux at a different wavelength.\n\nExtraterrestrial craft are another target in the search for technosignatures. Magnetic sail interstellar spacecraft should be detectable over thousands of light-years of distance through the synchrotron radiation they would produce through interaction with the interstellar medium; other interstellar spacecraft designs may be detectable at more modest distances. In addition, robotic probes within the Solar System are also being sought out with optical and radio searches.\n\nFor a sufficiently advanced civilization, hyper energetic neutrinos from Planck scale accelerators should be detectable at a distance of many Mpc.\n\nItalian physicist Enrico Fermi suggested in the 1950s that if technologically advanced civilizations are common in the universe, then they should be detectable in one way or another. (According to those who were there, Fermi either asked \"Where are they?\" or \"Where is everybody?\")\n\nThe Fermi paradox is commonly understood as asking why extraterrestrials have not visited Earth, but the same reasoning applies to the question of why signals from extraterrestrials have not been heard. The SETI version of the question is sometimes referred to as \"the Great Silence\".\n\nThe Fermi paradox can be stated more completely as follows:\nThere are multiple explanations proposed for the Fermi paradox, ranging from analyses suggesting that intelligent life is rare (the \"Rare Earth hypothesis\"), to analyses suggesting that although extraterrestrial civilizations may be common, they would not communicate, or would not travel across interstellar distances.\n\nScience writer Timothy Ferris has posited that since galactic societies are most likely only transitory, an obvious solution is an interstellar communications network, or a type of library consisting mostly of automated systems. They would store the cumulative knowledge of vanished civilizations and communicate that knowledge through the galaxy. Ferris calls this the \"Interstellar Internet\", with the various automated systems acting as network \"servers\". If such an Interstellar Internet exists, the hypothesis states, communications between servers are mostly through narrow-band, highly directional radio or laser links. Intercepting such signals is, as discussed earlier, very difficult. However, the network could maintain some broadcast nodes in hopes of making contact with new civilizations.\n\nAlthough somewhat dated in terms of \"information culture\" arguments, not to mention the obvious technological problems of a system that could work effectively for billions of years and requires multiple lifeforms agreeing on certain basics of communications technologies, this hypothesis is actually testable (see below).\n\nA significant problem is the vastness of space. Despite piggybacking on the world's most sensitive radio telescope, Charles Stuart Bowyer said, the instrument could not detect random radio noise emanating from a civilization like ours, which has been leaking radio and TV signals for less than 100 years. For SERENDIP and most other SETI projects to detect a signal from an extraterrestrial civilization, the civilization would have to be beaming a powerful signal directly at us. It also means that Earth civilization will only be detectable within a distance of 100 light-years.\n\nThe International Academy of Astronautics (IAA) has a long-standing SETI Permanent Study Group (SPSG, formerly called the IAA SETI Committee), which addresses matters of SETI science, technology, and international policy. The SPSG meets in conjunction with the International Astronautical Congress (IAC) held annually at different locations around the world, and sponsors two SETI Symposia at each IAC. In 2005, the IAA established the SETI: Post-Detection Science and Technology Taskgroup (Chairman, Professor Paul Davies) \"to act as a Standing Committee to be available to be called on at any time to advise and consult on questions stemming from the discovery of a putative signal of extraterrestrial intelligent (ETI) origin.\"\n\nHowever, the protocols mentioned apply only to radio SETI rather than for METI (Active SETI). The intention for METI is covered under the SETI charter \"Declaration of Principles Concerning Sending Communications with Extraterrestrial Intelligence\".\n\nOn October 2000 astronomers Iván Almár and Jill Tarter presented a paper to The SETI Permanent Study Group in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil which proposed a scale (modelled after the Torino scale) which is an ordinal scale between zero and ten that quantifies the impact of any public announcement regarding evidence of extraterrestrial intelligence; the Rio scale has since inspired the 2005 San Marino Scale (in regard to the risks of transmissions from Earth) and the 2010 London Scale (in regard to the detection of extraterrestrial life) The Rio Scale itself was revised in 2018.\n\nThe SETI Institute does not officially recognize the Wow! signal as of extraterrestrial origin (as it was unable to be verified). The SETI Institute has also publicly denied that the candidate signal Radio source SHGb02+14a is of extraterrestrial origin though full details of the signal, such as its exact location have never been disclosed to the public. Although other volunteering projects such as Zooniverse credit users for discoveries, there is currently no crediting or early notification by SETI@Home following the discovery of a signal.\n\nSome people, including Steven M. Greer, have expressed cynicism that the general public might not be informed in the event of a genuine discovery of extraterrestrial intelligence due to significant vested interests. Some, such as Bruce Jakosky have also argued that the official disclosure of extraterrestrial life may have far reaching and as yet undetermined implications for society, particularly for the world's religions.\n\nActive SETI, also known as messaging to extraterrestrial intelligence (METI), consists of sending signals into space in the hope that they will be picked up by an alien intelligence.\n\nIn November 1974, a largely symbolic attempt was made at the Arecibo Observatory to send a message to other worlds. Known as the Arecibo Message, it was sent towards the globular cluster M13, which is 25,000 light-years from Earth. Further IRMs Cosmic Call, Teen Age Message, Cosmic Call 2, and A Message From Earth were transmitted in 1999, 2001, 2003 and 2008 from the Evpatoria Planetary Radar.\n\nPhysicist Stephen Hawking, in his book \"A Brief History of Time\", suggests that \"alerting\" extraterrestrial intelligences to our existence is foolhardy, citing mankind's history of treating his fellow man harshly in meetings of civilizations with a significant technology gap. He suggests, in view of this history, that we \"lay low\". In one response to Hawking, in September 2016, astronomer Seth Shostak, allays such concerns. Astronomer Jill Tarter also disagrees with Hawking, arguing that aliens developed and long-lived enough to communicate and travel across interstellar distances would have evolved a cooperative and less violent intelligence. She does think it is too soon for humans to attempt active SETI and that humans should be more advanced technologically first but keep listening in the meantime.\n\nThe concern over METI was raised by the science journal \"Nature\" in an editorial in October 2006, which commented on a recent meeting of the International Academy of Astronautics SETI study group. The editor said, \"It is not obvious that all extraterrestrial civilizations will be benign, or that contact with even a benign one would not have serious repercussions\" (Nature Vol 443 12 October 06 p 606). Astronomer and science fiction author David Brin has expressed similar concerns.\n\nRichard Carrigan, a particle physicist at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory near Chicago, Illinois, suggested that passive SETI could also be dangerous and that a signal released onto the Internet could act as a computer virus. Computer security expert Bruce Schneier dismissed this possibility as a \"bizarre movie-plot threat\".\n\nTo lend a quantitative basis to discussions of the risks of transmitting deliberate messages from Earth, the SETI Permanent Study Group of the International Academy of Astronautics adopted in 2007 a new analytical tool, the San Marino Scale. Developed by Prof. Ivan Almar and Prof. H. Paul Shuch, the scale evaluates the significance of transmissions from Earth as a function of signal intensity and information content. Its adoption suggests that not all such transmissions are equal, and each must be evaluated separately before establishing blanket international policy regarding active SETI.\n\nHowever, some scientists consider these fears about the dangers of METI as panic and irrational superstition; see, for example, Alexander L. Zaitsev's papers. Biologist João Pedro de Magalhães also proposed in 2015 transmitting an invitation message to any extraterrestrial intelligences watching us already in the context of the Zoo Hypothesis and inviting them to respond, arguing this would not put us in any more danger than we are already if the Zoo Hypothesis is correct.\n\nOn 13 February 2015, scientists (including Geoffrey Marcy, Seth Shostak, Frank Drake, Elon Musk and David Brin) at a convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, discussed Active SETI and whether transmitting a message to possible intelligent extraterrestrials in the Cosmos was a good idea; one result was a statement, signed by many, that a \"worldwide scientific, political and humanitarian discussion must occur before any message is sent\". On 28 March 2015, a related essay was written by Seth Shostak and published in \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe Breakthrough Message program is an open competition announced in July 2015 to design a digital message that could be transmitted from Earth to an extraterrestrial civilization, with a US$1,000,000 prize pool. The message should be \"representative of humanity and planet Earth\". The program pledges \"not to transmit any message until there has been a wide-ranging debate at high levels of science and politics on the risks and rewards of contacting advanced civilizations\".\n\nAs various SETI projects have progressed, some have criticized early claims by researchers as being too \"euphoric\". For example, Peter Schenkel, while remaining a supporter of SETI projects, wrote in 2006 that\n\nSETI has also occasionally been the target of criticism by those who suggest that it is a form of pseudoscience. In particular, critics allege that no observed phenomena suggest the existence of extraterrestrial intelligence, and furthermore that the assertion of the existence of extraterrestrial intelligence has no good Popperian criteria for falsifiability, as explained in a 2009 editorial in \"Nature\", which said:\n\n\"Nature\" added that SETI was \"marked by a hope, bordering on faith\" that aliens were aiming signals at us, that a hypothetical alien SETI project looking at Earth with \"similar faith\" would be \"sorely disappointed\" (despite our many untargeted radar and TV signals, and our few targeted Active SETI radio signals denounced by those fearing aliens), and that it had difficulties attracting even sympathetic working scientists and Government funding because it was \"an effort so likely to turn up nothing\".\n\nHowever \"Nature\" also added that \"Nonetheless, a small SETI effort is well worth supporting, especially given the enormous implications if it did succeed\" and that \"happily, a handful of wealthy technologists and other private donors have proved willing to provide that support\".\n\nSupporters of the Rare Earth Hypothesis argue that advanced lifeforms are likely to be very rare, and that, if that is so, then SETI efforts will be futile. However the Rare Earth Hypothesis itself faces many criticisms.\n\nIn 1993 Roy Mash claimed that \"Arguments favoring the existence of extraterrestrial intelligence nearly always contain an overt appeal to big numbers, often combined with a covert reliance on generalization from a single instance\" and concluded that \"the dispute between believers and skeptics is seen to boil down to a conflict of intuitions which can barely be engaged, let alone resolved, given our present state of knowledge\". In 2012 Milan M. Ćirković (who was then research professor at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade and a research associate of the Future of Humanity Institute at the University of Oxford claimed that Mash was unrealistically over-reliant on excessive abstraction that ignored the empirical information available to modern SETI researchers.\n\nGeorge Basalla, Emeritus Professor of History at the University of Delaware, is a critic of SETI who argued in 2006 that \"extraterrestrials discussed by scientists are as imaginary as the spirits and gods of religion or myth\", and has in turn been criticized by Milan M. Ćirković for, among other things, being unable to distinguish between \"SETI believers\" and \"scientists engaged in SETI\", who are often sceptical (especially about quick detection), such as Freeman Dyson (and, at least in their later years, Iosif Shklovsky and Sebastian von Hoerner), and for ignoring the difference between the knowledge underlying the arguments of modern scientists and those of ancient Greek thinkers.\n\nMassimo Pigliucci, Professor of Philosophy at CUNY-City College, asked in 2010 whether SETI is \"uncomfortably close to the status of pseudoscience\" due to the lack of any clear point at which negative results cause the hypothesis of Extraterrestrial Intelligence to be abandoned, before eventually concluding that SETI is \"almost-science\", which is described by Milan M. Ćirković as Pigliucci putting SETI in \"the illustrious company of string theory, interpretations of quantum mechanics, evolutionary psychology and history (of the 'synthetic' kind done recently by Jared Diamond)\", while adding that his justification for doing so with SETI \"is weak, outdated, and reflecting particular philosophical prejudices similar to the ones described above in Mash and Basalla\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15404618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15404618", "title": "Sexual repression", "text": "Sexual repression\n\nSexual repression is a state in which a person is prevented from expressing their own sexuality. Sexual repression is often associated with feelings of guilt or shame, being associated with sexual impulses. What constitutes sexual repression is subjective and can vary greatly between cultures and moral systems. Many religions have been accused of fostering sexual repression.\n\nSome ideologies seek to repress certain forms of sexual expression, such as homosexuality, and some cultures even use violent practices such as genital modification and mutilation, honor killings, or stoning, in an attempt to regulate human sexual behavior.\n\nSigmund Freud was the first to use the term widely, and argued that it was one of the roots of many problems in Western society. Freud believed that people's naturally strong instincts toward sexuality were repressed by people in order to meet the constraints imposed on them by civilized life. However, Freud's ideas about sexual repression have not been without their critics. According to sex therapist Bernard Apfelbaum, Freud did not base his belief in universal innate, natural sexuality on the strength of sexual desire he saw in people, but rather on its weakness. In some periods of Indian history anaphrodisiacs were utilised in order to lower libidos.\n\nMost forms of Christianity strongly discourage homosexual behavior.\n\nMany forms of Islam have strict sexual codes which include banning homosexuality, demanding virginity before marriage accompanied by a ban on fornication, and can require modest dress-codes for men and women.\n\nVarious countries have laws against sexual acts outside marriage. In countries such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Oman, Mauritania, United Arab Emirates, Sudan, Yemen, any form of sexual activity outside marriage is illegal.\n\nMarriage has been seen as a means of controlling sexuality. Some forms of marriage, such as child marriage, are often practiced as a means of regulating the sexuality of girls, by ensuring they do not have several partners, thus preserving their virginity for the future husband. According to the BBC World Service:\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female genital cutting or female circumcision, \"comprises all procedures that involve partial or total removal of the external female genitalia, or other injury to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons\".\nThe practice is concentrated in 27 countries in Africa as well as Iraqi Kurdistan, Yemen and Indonesia; and more than 125 million girls and women today are estimated to have been subjected to FGM.\n\nFGM does not have any health benefits, and has serious negative effects on health; including complications during childbirth.\n\nFGM is used as a way of controlling female sexuality; the World Health Organization (WHO) states:\n\nFGM is condemned by international human rights instruments. The Istanbul Convention prohibits FGM (Article 38). FGM is also considered a form a violence against women by the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women which was adopted by the United Nations in 1993; according to which: \"Article Two: Violence against women shall be understood to encompass, but not be limited to, the following: (a) Physical, sexual and psychological violence occurring in the family, including [...] female genital mutilation [...]\".\n\nMale circumcision has been practiced as a surgical means of sexual repression in some cultures, although it may be practiced for various reasons, with the World Health Organization recommending it as a means of reducing HIV/AIDS. Circumcision is also a religious tradition in Judaism and Islam. According to medieval Jewish theologian Moses Maimonides, the \"reason\" for male circumcision is \"the wish to bring about a decrease in sexual intercourse and a weakening of the organ in question, so that this activity be diminished and the organ be in as quiet a state as possible.\" \n\nIn the late-nineteenth century, circumcision of the penis was prescribed by John Harvey Kellogg as a \"cure\" for masturbation. William Acton, a leading authority on sexuality in mid-Victorian Britain, advocated male circumcision in order to prevent \"undue excitement of the sexual desires … which it is our object to repress.\"\n\nA \"biocultural analysis\" of male circumcision supports the hypothesis \"that a practical consequence of circumcision, complementary to any religious-symbolic function, is to make a circumcised male less sexually excitable and distractible, and, hence, more amenable to his group's authority figures.\"\n\nAn honor killing is the homicide of a member of a family or social group by other members, due to the perpetrators' belief that the victim has brought shame or dishonor upon the family or community, usually for reasons such as refusing to enter an arranged marriage, being in a relationship that is disapproved by their relatives, having sex outside marriage, becoming the victim of rape, dressing in ways which are deemed inappropriate, or engaging in homosexual relations. According to a UN Expert Group Meeting on good practices in legislation to address harmful practices against women:\n\nVarious cultures attempt to repress homosexual sexual expression. As of 2014, same-sex sexual acts are punishable by prison in 70 countries, and in five other countries and in parts of two others, homosexuality is punishable with the death penalty. Apart from criminal prosecution, LGBT individuals may also face social stigmatization and serious violence (see violence against LGBT people).\n\nSome researchers have hypothesized a relationship between sexual repression and rape. However, they have been unable to find any support for this hypothesis - whether the tremendous difficulty of measuring sexual repression is to blame, or whether the theory is simply false, is unknown.\n\nSexual repression is often viewed as a key issue within feminism, although feminist views on sexuality vary widely.\n\nMichel Foucault, in his \"The History of Sexuality\", neither refutes nor confirms what he calls the \"repressive hypothesis.\" Instead, he says sexuality has become an important topic to understand and manipulate for the purpose of nation building. Through categorization of sexuality, the idea of repression was born. While he agrees sexuality has become much more controlled, he equates it to necessity. Furthermore, it is through psychiatric and medical discourse on sexuality that it has become repressed.\n\nFoucault argues that religious confession as well as psychiatric procedure codify confession within as a means of extracting truth. Because the mechanisms of sex were obscure, it was elusive by nature and its mechanisms escaped observation. By integrating it into the beginnings of a scientific discourse, the nineteenth century altered the scope of confession. Confession tended no longer to be concerned solely with what the subject wished to hide but with what was hidden from himself. It had to be extracted by force, since it involved something that tried to stay hidden. This relationship of truth scientifically validated the view of the confessed which could assimilate, record, and verify this obscure truth.\n\nMany countries have developed a much more liberal attitude towards sexuality, but in some it has become less so:\n\nReproduction-based sex was urged by Mao Zedong, but later politicians instituted a one-child policy. In a country where atheism is popular, the restriction cannot be ascribed to religion but to nationalist motives.\n\n"}
{"id": "14682638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14682638", "title": "Social graph", "text": "Social graph\n\nThe social graph in the Internet context is a graph that depicts personal relations of internet users. In short, it is a model or representation of a social network, where the word graph has been taken from graph theory. The social graph has been referred to as \"the global mapping of everybody and how they're related\".\n\nThe term was popularized at the Facebook F8 conference on May 24, 2007, when it was used to explain how the newly introduced Facebook Platform would take advantage of the relationships between individuals to offer a richer online experience. The definition has been expanded to refer to a social graph of all Internet users.\n\nSince explaining the concept of the social graph, Mark Zuckerberg, one of the founders of Facebook, has often touted Facebook's goal of offering the website's social graph to other websites so that a user's relationships can be put to use on websites outside Facebook's control.\n\nSeveral issues have come forward regarding the existing implementation of the social graph owned by Facebook. For example, currently, a social networking service is unaware of the relationships forged between individuals on a different service. This creates an online experience that is not seamless, and instead provides for a fragmented experience due to the lack of an openly available graph between services. In addition, existing services define relationships differently.\n\n, Facebook's social graph is the largest social network dataset in the world, and it contains the largest number of defined relationships between the largest number of people among all websites because it is the most widely used social networking service in the world. Concern has focused on the fact that Facebook's social graph is owned by the company and is not shared with other services, giving it a major advantage over other services and preventing its users from taking their graph with them to other services when they wish to do so, such as when a user is dissatisfied with Facebook. Google has attempted to offer a solution to this problem by creating the Social Graph API, released in January 2008, which allows websites to draw publicly available information about a person to form a portable identity of the individual, in order to represent a user's online identity. This did not, however, experience Google's desired uptake and was thus retired in 2012. Facebook introduced its own Graph API at the 2010 f8 conference. Both companies monetise collected data sets through direct marketing and social commerce. In December 2016, Microsoft acquired LinkedIn for $26.2 billion.\n\nFacebook's Graph API allows websites to draw information about more objects than simply people, including photos, events, and pages, and their relationships between each other. This expands the social graph concept to more than just relationships between individuals and instead applies it to virtual non-human objects between individuals, as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3294779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3294779", "title": "Somatic effort", "text": "Somatic effort\n\nSomatic effort refers to the total investments of an organism in its own development, differentiation, and maintenance which consequently increases its reproductive potential.\n"}
{"id": "53084083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53084083", "title": "Spurius Furius Medullinus Fusus (consul 464 BC)", "text": "Spurius Furius Medullinus Fusus (consul 464 BC)\n\nSpurius Furius Medullinus Fusus (d. 453 BC) was a Roman politician in the 5th century BC, and was consul in 464 BC, and consul suffect in 453 BC.\n\nMedullinus was the brother of Publius Furius Medullinus Fusus, consul in 472 BC. The \"cognomina\" \"Medullinus Fusus\" has been reconstructed from multiple sources. Dionysius of Halicarnassus gives the \"praenomen\" \"Servius\" in place of \"Spurius\". Medullinus was the father of Lucius Furius Medullinus (military tribune with consular power in 432, 425, and 420 BC).\n\nIn 464 BC, he was elected consul with Aulus Postumius Albus Regillensis. The two consuls led separate campaigns against the Aequi, Medullinus in Hernician territory. In an initial battle the Aequi were victorious, and the Roman forces led by Furius were besieged in their camp. Later Furius led his troops in a sortie. They burst forth from their besieged camp and attacked the Aequi. The Roman attack initially succeeded, however the consul's brother Publius, (who had been consul in 472 BC and was serving as a legatus under his brother's command) led his forces too far from the main Roman force, and was cut off and killed. This led the consul to pursue him, and Spurius Furius himself was wounded, and only just rescued from the enemy. The Aequi besieged the Romans in their camp once again, and displayed the head of the consul's brother. But then the proconsul Titus Quinctius Capitolinus Barbatus arrived with Latin and Hernican forces, and attacked the Aequian army. The besieged Roman army again broke forth from the camp, and the Aequian army was soundly defeated. The Roman forces led by Quinctius and Furius then assisted the other consul Postumius in driving a separate Aequian force from Roman territory.\n\nIn 453 BC a pestilence ravaged Rome. According to Dionysius of Halicarnassus, a Spurius Fusus (probably the consul of 464 BC), was made consul suffect to replace the consul Sextus Quinctilius Varus, who died from the pestilence. Medullinus also died of the pestilence later that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1058491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1058491", "title": "Statue menhir", "text": "Statue menhir\n\nA statue menhir is a type of carved standing stone created during the later European Neolithic.\n\nThe statues consist of a vertical slab or pillar with a stylised design of a human figure cut into it, sometimes with hints of clothing or weapons visible.\n\nThey are most commonly found in southern and western France, Catalonia, Corsica, Sardinia, Italy and the Alps. A group from the Iron Age also is known in Liguria and Lunigiana.\n\nThere are two in Guernsey, \"La Gran' Mère du Chimquière\" ('the Grandmother of the Cemetery'), a highly detailed example in the churchyard of Parish of Saint Martin, and another known simply as \"La Gran' Mère\" in the Parish of Castel. The latter is an earlier, less detailed example found buried underneath the porch of the parish church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41317721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41317721", "title": "The Cat Lady", "text": "The Cat Lady\n\nThe Cat Lady is an indie psychological horror graphic adventure video game developed by Harvester Games for Microsoft Windows and Linux.\n\nThe protagonist is Susan Ashworth, a chronically depressed, middle-aged woman with no friends. She hates flowers, and her only companions are stray cats, whom she summons to her flat by playing her piano. She is known in her neighborhood as the cat lady.\n\nOne night, Susan decides to take her own life, but this leads her to explore a strange place in death where she encounters the Queen of Maggots, who grants her immortality and gives her the task of ridding the world of five psychopaths referred to as the \"parasites\".\n\nSusan then returns to the world of the living to wake up in a hospital bed and is soon forced to carry out her task. She meets Liz in the hospital, a friendly nurse unhappy with her job, who tells Susan her \"daughter\" saved her; much to the chagrin and annoyance of Susan, who has no daughter. Annoyed by the hospital's constant druggings and wanting to get home, Susan attempts to escape, only to be stopped by Doctor X - the hospitals' psychiatrist. She reveals her feelings and past to Doctor X, and tells him how Liz killed herself the night before. Doctor X, knowing Susan is aware of Liz's death, traps and kills Susan. She awakes later in some kind of hidden torture basement to the screams of another victim. Upon searching around, she discovers that Doctor X kills his patients to reform them as artwork. Susan then leaves, possibly after killing Doctor X.\n\nShe returns to her house, attempting to return to her normal life. Whilst summoning the cats, she receives an angry complaint from a neighbour, who threatens to call pest control. After this, she meets Mitzi, a young, homeless woman willing to be her new roommate. She had lied about being Susan's daughter merely to save her life. When Susan sees the Queen of Maggots behind Mitzi, she realises she is close to death, leading Mitzi to reveal she has cancer. Susan learns that Mitzi had a boyfriend named Jack who was driven to insanity upon learning of her cancer. He stumbled upon a suicide forum online, in which a troll called the \"Eye of Adam\" lured people to kill themselves using a mixture of two household chemicals. Jack has attempted to persuade her into it, though Mitzi had refused, leaving Jack to kill himself. Mitzi insists that she just wants to find the person, who is in the flat, to \"talk\" with them before she dies. Soon after, Susan investigates outside after hearing the cats howling outside, only to be kidnapped by the pest controller.\nSusan awakes in the pest controllers' house, tied to a table. The man reveals he is sexually attracted to Susan, and had previously sought after other women, though his wife then interrupts and pours bleach over Susan's face. The pest controller, seeing Susan so bloodied, loses interest in her and abandons her with a gun, unaware of Susan's immortality. Susan awakes and finds the house littered with cat and human meat. She unsuccessfully calls the police and then Mitzi, asking for the chemical combination used by Jack, and uses this to murder the couple.\n\nUpon returning to the flat, Susan and Mitzi slowly reconcile and become friends, and Susan agrees to help Mitzi find the Eye of Adam. When having coffee, Mitzi naively asks Susan if she has children, unknowingly bringing up her pained memories. After breaking a mug, Mitzi attempts to apologise before Susan angrily walks out, only to be murdered by a man pretending to offer flowers. Susan awakes on some kind of dock, her in limbo state between life and death, where she has to blow out another candle to reveal another death.\n\nAwaking in the flat, she is tied to Mitzi in the bath, where they fail to escape. Susan reveals her hatred for flowers; ten years ago, she was young mother to Zoe, married to a taxi driver named Eric. One night, whilst Eric was working, Susan was at home with Zoe. She spoke to a man on the phone, supposedly her admirer, who sent her flowers whilst she was married. Susan hid the flowers in Zoe's room with the window open. Eric returned home, angrily informing Susan of a terrorist attack happening earlier that day, nearly killing him. Susan was oblivious to this as she was talking to her admirer, who promptly called to interrupt the conversation. Whilst Eric and Susan argued, Zoe's rare allergy to pollen reacted with the pollen coming from the flowers, eventually killing her. Susan also reveals to Mitzi that Eric was found dead shortly after, leaving her alone and depressed in the same flat.\n\nThe man returns, untying Susan and hanging Mitzi from the ceiling, attempting to kill her. The man orders Susan to play the piano for him, summoning the cats, who eat him. Susan unties Mitzi, and they set out trying to find the Eye of Adam. Whilst searching, they meet Joe and Ivy Davis from Downfall, an old man, and a young mother with her baby - which Susan finds uncomfortable.\n\nThe game deals with mature themes such as depression, suicide, murder and cancer, but also provides moments of humor and hope.\n\nThe ending of the game is slightly modified based on player's choices.\n\nThe game has English-only voice acting.\n\n\"The Cat Lady\" received generally favorable reviews. It received an aggregated score of 81/100 based on 11 reviews on Metacritic. Keven Van Ord of GameSpot gave the game a very positive review, and concluded it by saying, \"If you seek horror, The Cat Lady may sometimes freak you out, though probably not outright scare you. But that horror is in service of a touching character portrait—a portrait that's authentically, poignantly askew.\" The game won Best Story in the 2012 Aggie Awards.\n"}
{"id": "20538488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20538488", "title": "Thomas Brattle", "text": "Thomas Brattle\n\nThomas Brattle (June 20, 1658 – May 18, 1713) was a well-educated and prosperous Boston merchant who served as treasurer of Harvard College, and was a member of the intellectually elite Royal Society.\n\nThomas Brattle was born on June 20, 1658 in Boston, Massachusetts to Elizabeth Brattle née Tyng and Captain Thomas Brattle. He was the couple's second child and the first son to survive past infancy. He had eight siblings, including William Brattle and Catherine Winthrop. Brattle's date of birth is often confused with the first-born son of the Brattle family (also named Thomas Brattle) – who was born on, and died on, September 5, 1657.\n\nAs a child, Thomas Brattle was exposed to radical forms of the Puritan faith, primarily through his father's participation in the controversial founding of the Third (South) Church, which advocated for ecclesiastical reforms. The church's membership included many notable members such as Samuel Sewall, Samuel Adams, and Benjamin Franklin. At one point in time, Thomas' father, Captain Brattle, was named the wealthiest man in the colony. After the death of his father, Thomas was appointed administrator of the estate on April 12, 1683, leaving him with a large sum of money and a healthy plot of land.\n\nBefore attending Harvard University in 1676, he attended the Boston Latin School. This school was open to all boys regardless of class, and served to educate and prepare the young men for university. The Boston Latin School is where Brattle met influential Puritan leader Cotton Mather. Although the two men agreed on many social and political ideologies later in life, they did not see eye to eye during their time at the Boston Latin School. It is documented that Thomas Brattle and other schoolmates enjoyed picking on Cotton Mather (to the point where he wrote to his father, Increase Mather, and requested to come home early). After his time at the Boston Latin School, Brattle attended Harvard University and received an AB in mathematics and science.\n\nIn 1676, Brattle graduated from Harvard College with an A.B., equivalent to our modern B.A. At Harvard, Brattle developed marked skill in mathematics and science. Though he is most well known for \"The Witchcraft Delusion\", which was written to argue against the Salem Witch Trials, Brattle was interested in many areas including mathematics, architecture, and astronomy.\n\nBrattle gained most of his education on his own due to the bad leadership at Harvard in his undergraduate years. He used whatever books that were available and studied with John Foster and Dr. William Avery. Brattle wrote a letter to John Flamsteed, a mentor of his, stating that no one at Harvard could teach him mathematics so he took it upon himself to do so. Thomas and a group of other prominent colonists studied several comets that appeared in the late seventeenth century. He wrote several essays on these comets.\n\nBrattle later travelled abroad and then settled in Boston in 1693, where he pursued a short business career and gave several gifts to Harvard. That same year, he was appointed as the Harvard College treasurer and he served in that position for twenty years until his death. During his time as treasurer, the finances of the college grew exponentially. Brattle was a member of the intellectually elite Royal Society. The Royal Society was a new group of scientific thinkers that practiced a more intense and rational thought process. This group grew much larger in the eighteenth century when it was headed by Sir Isaac Newton. Sir Isaac Newton was so impressed with Brattle's work that he planned to procure his papers on astronomy and math after Brattle's death in order to benefit the Royal Society. In an attempt to obtain them, Newton tried to make his brother, William Brattle, a member of the Society, however William declined. In 1711, Brattle attempted to use a mathematical algorithm in order to end small pox. Although he failed, it can be seen that Brattle was heavily involved in education and scientific discovery. (Kennedy) Brattle made more substantial contributions to science than any other American of the day.\n\nThomas Brattle's mother was Elizabeth Brattle and his father Captain Thomas Brattle. He was one of four children, including his brother, William Brattle (and nephew William Brattle), and his two sisters, Elizabeth Oliver and Katherine Winthrop Eyre.\n\nBrattle was an accomplished amateur mathematician and astronomer which eventually lead him to becoming the unofficial professor of mathematics and astrology at Harvard. There he taught and trained students in return for their assistance in his research. His work was directly influenced by the ideas of Robert Boyle and John Flamsteed, which he communicated to his students. In addition to being a professor, he became the treasurer of Harvard College after numerous donations. Circumstantial evidence indicates that he designed Stoughton Hall at Harvard and his own Brattle Street Meeting House.\n\nBrattle lived in London from 1682-1689 in order to study science. There he was involved in both scientific communities which can \"help us understand a good deal about the progress of scientific expertise in colonial New England,\" since he was able to communicate information to both communities. Among his accomplishments, he was also a member of Royal Society, and Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company of Massachusetts.\n\nBrattle was also the principal founder of the Brattle Street Church, which broke away from the Congregational church. This sparked an intense dispute between Brattle and famous Puritan minister, Cotton Mather. Rather than being similar to the Puritans, his church was more like the Church of England. He was eulogized by the Reverend Benjamin Colman as \"worth Christian philosopher, who was also the glory of his country in respect to his excelling knowledge of mathematics\". Brattle died in Boston, MA, but his death date is still questioned to this day. He was buried in Boston, MA.\n\nIn early October 1692, Brattle wrote a letter to an English clergyman which was critical of the Salem Witch Trials. The letter was circulated widely in Boston at the time, and it continues to be studied for its reasoned attack on the witchcraft trials in Salem. The \"highly literate\" and \"satirical tone\" of the letter was seen as writing beyond its time, leading Perry Miller to call it a \"milestone in American literature.\" Brattle denounced the persecution of suspected witches, and his letter revealed a \"chink in the armor\" of Puritan ideology. Brattle presents a compelling argument against the legal premises and procedures involved in the afflictions, accusations, and executions, with a particular focus on the invalidity of spectral evidence in proceedings.\n\nBrattle's letter was designed to illustrate the wrongful convictions that the Court of Oyer and Terminer made during this time as they based their evidence on witchcraft from intangible evidence. He was careful to not critique the \"Salem Gentlemen\", which he referred to as the judges and ministers, but rather focused on critiquing the methods they used. After Governor Phips read Brattle's letter, he ordered that the courts could no longer use intangible evidence as a source to convict individuals of witchcraft. Phips dissolved the court entirely within the same month. Six months later, the Superior Court of Massachusetts took over the remaining witchcraft cases and no one was found guilty. Although Brattle's letter was written after 20 people were already wrongfully convicted, his powerful letter helped shape the future of Salem.\n\nAs a result of the reaction toward theological, political, and cultural transformations that affected the whole of New England in the later half of the 17th century, the Brattle Street Church was formed as a result of radical development in the evolution of colonial congregationalism - bringing reason and religion together in a new church. The Congregational Church was broadly catholic, but used conservative principles of congregationalism (that just liberty and privilege should be allowed to all, while imposing nothing upon an individual). Although it did not make any radical changes from contemporary theological consensus - its foundation did represent the first concrete fragmentation of a previously united New England Congregational Community.\n\nOutside of his involvement in the Salem witch trials, Brattle and his younger brother William provided new radical ideas that the Puritan Church did not agree with. Brattle preached some of these more liberal ideas in the church he founded, the Brattle Street Church, which led to an argument with Puritan minister Cotton Mather. Also, both Thomas and William improved Harvard College. Thomas donated money many times, served as treasurer of the college, and was an unofficial professor of astronomy and mathematics. When Thomas died, he left the New World with a new rational approach towards thought.\n\nBrattle is also credited as being the first person to import an organ to the colonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "19650770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19650770", "title": "Traffic Homicide Investigator", "text": "Traffic Homicide Investigator\n\nA Traffic Homicide Investigator (THI) is a term used primarily in the United States of America for a police employee, generally a sworn law enforcement officer, who is assigned to investigate fatalities resulting from motor vehicle collisions.\n\nTraffic Homicide Investigator's have special training that goes beyond standard accident investigation and equips them to conduct an investigation of the site of a serious or fatal collision and to treat it as a crime scene. They are usually a traffic officer who has investigated a great number of nonfatal crashes and have advanced towards more in-depth crash investigation. Although they may not be the first responder to a traffic-related fatality, they will be called upon to take over the investigation at an early stage and see it through to its conclusion.\n\nTraffic Homicide Investigators are \"part physicist, part policeman and part victim's advocate\". They carefully document the scene of a crash, ideally in a manner thorough enough to allow specially trained officers to reconstruct the scene at a later time, after the roadway has been reopened. This includes documenting the precise details of the roadway on which the fatality occurred; the state of any vehicles involved, including the use of safety features; the condition, legal status and attitude of the operator or operators of any vehicles, and any other local factors such as the weather and the presence or absence of appropriate road signage. \n\nIn addition, investigators will conduct interviews with drivers and witnesses to assist in building up an overall picture of what led to the crash.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, specialised collision investigators working as part of the local police force's traffic unit will usually handle collisions that result in death or serious injury. They receive training equivalent to this in the USA and conduct their investigations with similar methodology.\n\n"}
{"id": "6986591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6986591", "title": "White Lady (ghost)", "text": "White Lady (ghost)\n\nA White Lady is a type of female ghost dressed in all white reportedly seen in rural areas and associated with some local legend of tragedy. While White Lady legends are found in many countries around the world, they are most prominent in parts of the United States, Ireland and Great Britain. Common to many of these legends is the theme of loss of a daughter or husband and a sense of purity before death (as opposed to the Lady in Red ghost).\n\nIn popular medieval legend, a White Lady is fabled to appear by day as well as by night in a house in which a family member is soon to die. According to \"The Nuttall Encyclopædia\", these spirits were regarded as the ghosts of deceased ancestresses.\n\nCalled \"Dama Branca\" or \"Mulher de Branco\" in Portuguese, the Brazilian Lady in White is said to be the ghost of a young woman who died of childbirth or violent causes. According to legend, she appears as a pale woman in a long white dress or a sleeping gown, and although usually speechless, will occasionally recount her misfortunes. The origins of the myth are not clear, Luís da Câmara Cascudo's \"Dicionário do Folclore Brasileiro\" (Brazilian Folklore Dictionary) proposes that the ghost is related to the violent deaths of young white women who were murdered by their fathers or husbands in an \"honor\" killing. The most frequent reasons for these honor killings were adultery (actual or suspected), denial of sex, or abuse. Monteiro Lobato in his book \"Urupês\" describes a young woman starved to death by her husband because he suspected she was in love with a black slave and only gave her the stewed meat of his corpse for food.\n\nA popular legend claims that the surroundings of the Montmorency Falls, near Quebec City are haunted by a white lady. It is said to be the spirit of a young \"Canadienne\" woman whose soon-to-be husband was killed while fighting against the British in the battle of Beauport. The young couple allegedly used to meet near the top of the falls and, accordingly, the grieving woman is said to have chosen the site to end her life by throwing herself in the raging waters while wearing the wedding dress that she had recently ordered to be made. A smaller waterfall in the vicinity now bears the name Chute de la Dame Blanche \"(White Lady Waterfall)\" in reference to this legend.\n\nThe best-known White Lady of the Czech Republic is the ghost of Perchta of Rožmberk at Rožmberk Castle. Perchta of Rožmberk (c. 1429–1476) was a daughter of an important Czech nobleman, Oldřich II of Rožmberk. She married another nobleman, Jan of Lichtenštejn (John of Liechtenstein) in 1449. The marriage was quite unhappy. One of the reasons might have been the fact that Perchta's father had been reluctant to pay the agreed dowry. Legend has it that as her husband was dying, he asked for her forgiveness for his treatment of her. Perchta refused, and her husband cursed her. This is why she haunts his holdings, which include Český Krumlov Castle, where she has been seen most often. During her married life, Perchta wrote many letters to her father and brothers with colourful descriptions of her unhappy family life. Some 32 of these letters had been handed down.\n\nThe most famous white lady of Estonia resides in Haapsalu castle. She is said to be the woman who a canon fell in love with. She hid in the castle as a choir boy, and remained a secret for a long time. But when the Bishop of Ösel-Wiek visited Haapsalu she was discovered, and immured in the wall of the chapel for her crime. To this day she is said to look out of the Baptistery’s window and grieve for her beloved man. She can be seen on clear August full-moon nights.\n\nA White Lady was first reported to be seen in the Berliner Schloss in 1625 and sightings were reported up until 1790. This castle is the residence of the kings of Prussia, so the Lady has been linked to several historical figures:\n\n\nThere is a legend of a White Lady who was a prince's wife in the town of Rheda-Wiedenbrück, Westphalia. The prince was away, fighting in the Thirty Years' War, and his wife took a wandering minstrel as a lover. The prince returned unexpectedly, caught the two lovers, and drowned the minstrel in the moat. He then took his wife and encased her behind a wall in his manor with some food and water, so that she wouldn't cheat on him again as he returned to the fighting. The prince died in battle, the food and water ran out, and his wife died. Her spirit now haunts the manor. When the manor was renovated, the new owner had his builders tear down the wall behind which she was immured. The next day, the worker who tore down the wall was working on the roof of the manor when he fell, broke his back, and died. The manor is called \"Haus Aussel\".\n\nThe White Lady is the name of a female ghost that lives in Verdala Palace in the small forest of Buskett, Rabat, Malta.\n\nLegend has it that many years ago, a woman was to be married to a man she did not love. Her father told her that she must always do as her fiancé said since he was soon to be her husband. On the day of her wedding, she committed suicide by jumping off a balcony. This is why she is to this day known as the White Lady, because she was wearing her wedding gown on the day of her death. It is said that she haunts the Verdala Palace and many people who attend the August moon ball confirm that she does indeed appear in the palace.\n\nAccording to another Maltese legend, the White Lady of Mdina was killed by her lover after she was forced to marry another man. Many have claimed to see this spirit, always after eight o'clock in the evening. She usually appears to children under eight years old, heart-broken teenage boys, and elderly men. While she tells the children goodnight and bids them to return home, she advises the teenagers to \"find another\" or to join her and become a part of her \"shadow\" (her ghostly followers). She also attempts to lure elderly men into her \"shadow\".\n\n\"Vrouwen in wit\" (plural of \"vrouw in wit\"), or \"witte wieven\" as these women are called in local dialects, are mythical creatures of Lower Saxon origin and so most known in the eastern and northern parts of the Netherlands. Sometimes referred to as \"witte joffers\" ('white maidens'), they can have both a benevolent as well as a malevolent nature. Often related with witches and/or ghosts, they show many similarities with the banshee, the fairy, and the elf. Understood as malevolent beings, they abduct or switch newborns, abduct women, and punish people who have treated them badly. As benevolent beings, they may aid in childbirth or offer good advice. Indeed, though the adjective \"wit\" means 'white', it may originally refer to the Germanic word \"wid\", related to English 'wit' and 'wise', and so may be better understood as 'wise women', as they are known in Germany, where they are connected to the Völva.\n\nThey are believed to dwell in tumuli, the Hunebedden and on the moors. Wisps of mist and fog banks are sometimes called \"witte wieven\".\n\nThe Schinveldse Bossen forest is also home to another White Lady story. Archival evidence suggests that the forest was once home to a castle farm that was built in 1396. In the 17th century (estimated 1667), this site was burned down killing the daughter of Lord Lambert Reynart. This historical event has spawned a few variations on a White Lady ghost story based around the death of the woman who burned with the castle farm. The most common versions of the tale involve the woman having two fighting lovers or of the site being burned on her wedding day by a jealous nobleman. However, all versions claim that she now wanders the forest as a ghost in a long white dress, some saying she only appears at midnight, and others saying she only appears on nights of the full moon. The site of the former castle farm is referred to as Lammendam after the ghost who supposedly haunts the area. The term is a Dutch adaptation of the French \"La Madame Blanche\". It is now protected as a cultural historical site.\n\nIn popular culture, Dutch singer Joep Rademakers mentions this ghost in his song: \"t Sjilves Paradies\". Dutch symphonic black metal band Carach Angren also has a full concept album dedicated to this version of The White Lady.\n\nWhite Ladies are popular ghost story topics in the Philippines. White Ladies are often used to convey horror and mystery to young children for storytelling. Sightings of White Ladies are common around the country. The most prominent one is the White Lady of Balete Drive in Quezon City. It is said that it is the ghost of a long-haired woman in a white dress who, according to legend, died in a car accident while driving along Balete Drive. Most stories about her were told by taxi drivers doing the graveyard shift, such as the one where a taxi crosses Balete Drive and a very beautiful woman is asking for a ride. The cabbie then looks behind and sees the woman's face was full of blood and bruises, causing him to abandon his taxi in terror.\n\nIn other instances, it is said that when solitary people drive on that street in the early morning, they briefly see the face of a white-clad woman in the rear-view mirror before she quickly disappears. Some accidents on this road are blamed on apparitions of the White Lady.\n\nMany sources have said this legend was actually manufactured by a reporter in the 1950s, and also a possible combination of multiple stories from the area.\n\nIn Hungarian mythology, a white lady was the ghost of a girl or young woman that died violently, usually young women who committed suicide, were murdered or died while imprisoned. The ghost is usually bound to a specific location and is often identified as a specific person (i.e. Elizabeth Báthory).\n\nIn Thailand, there is a story of teenagers going into a deserted house in Thawi Watthana, suburban Bangkok to look for ghosts and afterwards died from accidents. In each case, witnesses claim to have seen the presence of a mysterious long hair woman in a white dress. A medium claimed that this was a vengeful spirit named \"Dao\" or \"Deuan\".\n\nSeveral tales out of the U.K. also suggest that the White Lady may be a victim of murder or suicide who died before she could tell anyone the location of some hidden treasure. Around 1800, the castle of Blenkinsopp in Northumberland was occupied by a family. One night the parents woke to their boy screaming \"The White Lady!\" By the time they arrived at his bedside, she had vanished, but the boy reported that the lady had been angry and tried to take him away after he refused to accompany her to a box of gold buried in the vaults below. She could not rest while it was there. The same events took place the following three nights. When the child began sleeping with his parents, the White Lady no longer disturbed him, but he never again traveled through the castle alone for fear of her. A second instance of treasure being involved exists in Welsh tradition. Near Bridgend, Glamorgan in Wales, \"Dynes Mewn Gwyn\", or the lady in white, appeared to guard a treasure located in the tower of Ogmore Castle. When a man had the courage to approach her, she rewarded him with half the treasure. In his greed, he took it all, but the White Lady retaliated, her fingers turning into claws. The man later wasted away and died.\n\nThe White Lady (also known as the \"Running Lady\") of Beeford, East Yorkshire resides on the \"Beeford Straight\", a stretch of road between Beeford and Brandesburton. Motorists have reported her apparition running across the Beeford Straight toward the junction of North Frodingham. Anecdotal tales also report a motorcyclist picking up a female hitchhiker on the same stretch of road. A few miles later the motorcyclist, upon turning around, noticed the passenger had vanished. In one instance, a car crashed into a tree killing 6 people. It is rumored to be the white lady's curse.\n\nIn another story a White Lady is seen retracing her steps as she was said to have jumped off the Portchester Castle while trying to retrieve her fallen child. Her spirit is said to haunt the castle to this day.\n\nA White Lady who is said to haunt Durand-Eastman Park in Rochester, New York. Also known as the Lady in the Lake, the 19th-century White Lady wanders the park area, obsessively looking for the body of her daughter, who was slain by a boyfriend or group of hoodlums, depending on the story you hear. Legend has it that the human White Lady either killed herself in grief, or died alone and heartbroken.\n\n\"The Lady in White\" or the \"White Lady of Avenel\", is the most commonly reported apparition at Avenel (Bedford, Virginia). The apparition is thought to be Mary Frances \"Fran\" Burwell, of the Burwell family of Virginia. \"The legend has it that she stayed on the front porch waiting for her husband to come home from the Civil War, but he never did.\" says Adam Stupin, founder of SouthWest Virginia Ghost Hunters.\n\n\"The Ghostly Sphinx of Metedeconk\" by Stephen Crane recounts the tale of a White Lady whose lover was drowned in 1815.\nUnion Cemetery in Easton, Connecticut has reported sightings of a white lady since the late 1940s, said to haunt the nearby Stepney Cemetery in Monroe, Connecticut.\n\nTolamato Cemetery in St. Augustine, Florida, has been home to stories of a haunting by a \"lady in white\" since the 19th century. Legend states that the ghost is the spirit of a young woman who died suddenly on her way to be married, and who was buried in her wedding dress.\n\nIn Mukilteo, Washington, there have been many alleged reports of a Lady In White vanishing hitchhiker just off of Clearview Drive in the forest or on the road near the treeline.\n\nIn Madisonville, Louisiana there is a legend about a woman called \"The Silk Lady\". Her ghost is said to haunt Palmetto Flats by Highway 22. The story goes that back in the mid-1800s there was a woman who was riding back from town after seeing her lover off. She was riding down an old logging trail when a snake spooked her horse. She fell, hit her head, and died as a result of the injury. Several people have reported her as a woman dressed in a wispy, silky dress and that her feet don't touch the ground. When she sees someone she is said to cackle like a banshee.\n\nIn Altoona, Pennsylvania she is known as the White Lady of Whopsy. Her ghost is said to haunt Wopsononock Mountain and Buckhorn Mountain in the western part of Altoona. It's said that she and her husband had an ill-fated crash over what's known as Devil's Elbow as you head into the city itself where both of them tumbled over the side of the mountain. According to legend, she is seen looking for her husband on foggy nights, has been picked up as a hitch hiker, and her reflection is not seen in the mirror but she always disappears around Devil's Elbow.\n\nIn Yermo, California at the Calico Ghost Town, author Lorin Morgan-Richards is said to have seen the ghost of a White Lady up close while it roamed the outskirts of town and he wrote about it in detail in his book \"Welsh in the Old West\".\n\nIn Fremont, California there are White Lady (called the White Witch) ghost sightings in Niles Canyon. A woman named Lowerey was one of the first people in the area killed in an automobile accident. People claim to have seen her in a cemetery in the area with strange lights and local legend says you can see her walking the ridge between the Niles Hollywood-style sign and the canyon.\n\nIn Hattiesburg, Mississippi a Woman in White is connected with the history of Burnt Bridge Road. In the 1970s a woman was killed in a car accident while crossing a wooden bridge over a small gully. The resulting fire destroyed the bridge, which was later rebuilt in concrete, and gave the road its new name. The charred and decaying remains of the original bridge can still be seen near the new bridge.\n\nIn Dallas, Texas at White Rock Lake Park it is reported that ghost of a twenty-year-old looking girl, known as \"The Lady of White Rock Lake\" described as wearing a water soaked 1930s evening dress, who usually appears at night along the roadside of East Lawther Drive. Witnesses claim the phantom asks to be taken to her home on Gaston Avenue in Dallas before disappearing in the car during the ride leaving behind a waterlogged car seat. Legend claims the woman to be a drowning victim from a boating accident in the 1930s. Reports of the ghostly encounters were published in Dallas-area newspapers in the 1960s.\n\n\n"}
