{"id": "38784031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38784031", "title": "2013 European aflatoxin contamination", "text": "2013 European aflatoxin contamination\n\nIn February–March 2013 several European countries, including Romania, Serbia, Croatia reported nationwide contamination of milk for human consumption (and possibly of derivative products) with aflatoxins. The details are still scarce.\n\nIt was reported in March that feed originating from Serbia and imported in the Netherlands and Germany was contaminated. It was also reported in March that tests revealed contamination in milk produced by two Dutch farms. Milk in Germany was also tested but so far is reported as not tainted. Nevertheless, Russia announced it would ban imports from the German farms that received contaminated feed. On March 20, Romanian farmers dumped milk in protest after the government banned milk from five farms, which remain unnamed. Danone Romania also withdrew some 75 tons of milk products from the shelves.\n\nThe European Commissions' Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF) has reported 10 notifications of aflatoxin B1 in maize of European origin since the last maize harvest in autumn 2012. In the 10 years prior to the last harvest—between 2001 and 2011—a total of nine cases of aflatoxins were reported in maize. Aflatoxins have been mainly an \"import problem\" up to now. However, global warming is increasingly affecting the mycotoxin map in Europe, producing \"tropical toxins\" within Europe's borders.\n\nIn Serbia the contamination turned into a political scandal after the government raised the internal milk contamination standards to tenfold of those from the EU. This higher limit however is the one practiced in the United States and two-thirds of the world.\n\nOn February 22, The Iowa Department of Agriculture found elevated Aflatoxin concentrations in dog food manufactured at a Pro-Pet facility in Kansas City, KS. The corn component of the dog food was reportedly contaminated with aflatoxins, though the contributing corn load passed screening at the facility. There are no reports of milk infestation in Iowa.\n\n"}
{"id": "50497762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50497762", "title": "Abortion in Saint Kitts and Nevis", "text": "Abortion in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nAbortion law in Saint Kitts and Nevis, a country in the West Indies and a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, is modelled on British legislation. Abortion is permitted in circumstances where a woman's life is threatened by pregnancy.\n\nAbortion law in Saint Kitts and Nevis, as in numerous other Commonwealth member countries, is based on the British Offences against the Person Act 1861. Abortion is addressed in Part IX of Saint Kitts and Nevis's own Offences against the Person Act, in Sections 53 and 54, which state that any woman who unlawfully attempts to procure an abortion is guilty of felony and can be imprisoned for up to ten years with or without hard labour. A third party who administers an unlawful abortion is subject to the same penalty while the supplier of an instrument or substance with the knowledge that it will be used to cause an unlawful abortion is guilty of misdemeanour and faces a penalty of up to two years in prison.\n\nThe Infant Life (Preservation) Act, which was adapted from the British Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929, permits abortion at any stage of pregnancy so long as the procedure is performed \"in good faith for the purpose only of preserving the life of the mother\". It states that a person who causes an abortion after 28 weeks of pregnancy is guilty of \"child destruction\", a felony, and is punishable with life imprisonment with or without hard labour. Saint Kitts and Nevis also follows precedents set in British abortion law, such as \"Rex v. Bourne\" (1938), in which the court ruled that an abortion performed on a teenage rape victim was lawful as it prevented harm to the victim's physical and mental health.\n\nA three-year study of abortion practices in the northeast Caribbean, published in 2005, noted that women from Saint Kitts and Nevis who are seeking abortions often travel to nearby Caribbean countries in order to remain anonymous.\n\n"}
{"id": "9969667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9969667", "title": "Abraham Low", "text": "Abraham Low\n\nAbraham Low (1891–1954), was a Jewish-American neuropsychiatrist noted for his work establishing self-help programs for the mentally ill, and criticism of Freudian psychoanalysis.\n\nLow was born February 28, 1891, in Baranów Sandomierski, Poland.\n\nLow attended grade school, high school and medical school in France from 1910 to 1918. He continued his medical education in Austria, serving in the Medical Corps of the Austrian Army. He graduated with a medical degree in 1919, after his military service, from the University of Vienna Medical School. After serving an internship in Vienna, Austria from 1919 to 1920, he immigrated to the United States, obtaining his U.S. citizenship in 1927.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1925 he practiced medicine in both New York, New York and Chicago, Illinois. In 1925 he was appointed as an instructor of neurology at the University of Illinois Medical School and became an associate professor of psychiatry. In 1931 Low was appointed Assistant Director and in 1940 became Acting Director of the University's Neuropsychiatric Institute.\n\nFrom 1931 to 1941 he supervised the Illinois State Hospitals. During this time he conducted demanding seminars with the staff and interviewed the most severe mental patients in the wards. In 1936, Low's \"Studies in Infant Speech and Thought\" was published by the University of Illinois Press. Some sixty papers are by Low dealing variously with such topics as: Histopathology of brain and spinal cord, studies on speech disturbances (aphasias) in brain lesions, clinical testing of psychiatric and neurological conditions, studies in shock treatment, laboratory investigations of mental diseases; and several articles on group psychotherapy had been published in medical periodicals.\n\nIn 1954 Low died at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. His contributions to the psychiatric and mental health communities are often not well known, but his work has and continues to assist numerous individuals in the area of mental health.\n\nIn 1937, Low founded Recovery, Inc. He served as its medical director from 1937 to 1954. During this time he presented lectures to relatives of former patients on his work with these patients and the before and after scenarios. In 1941, Recovery Inc. became an independent organization. Low's three volumes of \"The Technique of Self-help in Psychiatric Aftercare\" (including \"Lectures to Relatives of Former Patients\") were published by Recovery, Inc. in 1943. Recovery's main text, \"Mental Health Through Will-Training\", was originally published in 1950. During the organization's annual meeting in June 2007 it was announced that Recovery, Inc. would thereafter be known as Recovery International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56630559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56630559", "title": "Agricultural expansion", "text": "Agricultural expansion\n\nAgricultural expansion describes the growth of agricultural land (arable land, pastures, etc.) in the 21st century as a direct consequence of human overpopulation with an estimated 10 to 11 billion humans by end of this century and the required food and energy security. It is foreseen that most nonagricultural terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems of the world will be affected adversely (habitat loss, land degradation). The intensified food and biofuel production will particularly affect tropical regions.\n\nMost modern agriculture relies on intensive methods. Further expansion of the predominant farming types that rest on a small number of highly productive crops has led to a significant loss of biodiversity on a global scale already.\nIn the light of the already occurring and potential massive ecological effects, the need for sustainable practices is more urgent than ever.\n\nThe FAO predicts that global arable land use will continue to grow from a in 2014 to in 2050, with most of this growth projected to result from developing countries. At the same time, arable land use in developed countries is likely to continue its decline.\n\nA well-known example of already ongoing agricultural expansion is the proliferation of palm oil production areas or the land conversion/deforestation for soy bean production in South America. Today's land grabbing activities are often a consequence of the strive for agricultural land by growing economies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4411538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411538", "title": "Apothecaries Act 1815", "text": "Apothecaries Act 1815\n\nThe Apothecaries Act 1815 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (citation 55 Geo.lll, c.194) with the long title \"An Act for better regulating the Practice of Apothecaries throughout England and Wales\". The Act introduced compulsory apprenticeship and formal qualifications for apothecaries, in modern terms general practitioners, under the license of the Society of Apothecaries. It was the beginning of regulation of the medical profession in the UK. The Act required instruction in anatomy, botany, chemistry, \"materia medica\" and \"physic\", in addition to six months' practical hospital experience.\n\nDespite the Act, training of medical people in Britain remained disparate. Thomas Bonner, in part quoting M. Jeanne Peterson, notes that \"The training of a practitioner in Britain in 1830 could vary all the way from classical university study at Oxford and Cambridge to a series of courses in a provincial hospital to 'broom-and-apron apprenticeship in an apothecary's shop'\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43149099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43149099", "title": "Aspergillomarasmine A", "text": "Aspergillomarasmine A\n\nAspergillomarasmine A is an polyamino acid naturally produced by the mold \"Aspergillus versicolor\". The substance has been reported to inhibit two antibiotic resistance carbapenemase proteins in bacteria, New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1 (NDM-1) and Verona integron-encoded metallo-beta-lactamase (VIM-2), and make those antibiotic-resistant bacteria susceptible to antibiotics. Aspergillomarasmine A is toxic to leaves of barley and other plants, being termed as \"Toxin C\" when produced by \"Pyrenophora teres\".\n\nThe molecule is a tetracarboxylic acid with four -COOH groups. One section of the molecule is the amino acid aspartic acid. This has two alanine molecules attached. Aspergillomarasmine B differs in that the last alanine is replaced by glycine.\n\nThe crystalline substance was first isolated in 1956, but its name was given until 1965.\n\nIn addition to \"Aspergillus versicolor\", aspergillomarasmine A is also produced by the ascomycete \"Pyrenophora teres\" where it acts as a toxin in the barley net-spot blotch disease. In \"P. teres\", a biosynthetic precursor of aspergillomarasmine A, \"L\",\"L\"-\"N\"-(2-amino-2-carboxyethyl)-aspartic acid has also been isolated and found to contribute to the phytotoxic properties of this microbe. This precursor, aspergillomarasmine A itself, and a lactam form (anhydroaspergillomarasmine A) are together termed the marasmines.\n\nOther producers of aspergillomarasmine A include \"Aspergillus flavus\", \"Aspergillus oryzae\", \"Colletotrichum gloeosporioides\", and \"Fusarium oxysporum\".\n\nIn mice the LD50 toxic dose of aspergillomarasmine A is 159.8 mg/kg.\n\nAspergillomarasmine A takes the form of colourless crystals. The chemical is insoluble in common organic solvents, but can dissolve in water under either basic or strongly acidic conditions.\n\nAnhydroaspergillomarasmine A, a lactam of aspergillomarasmine A, chemically called [1-(2-amino-2carboxyethyl)-6-carboxy-3-carboxymethyl-3-piperazinone], can also be found in \"Pyrenophora teres\". The relative amount of these two toxins is dependent upon the pH of the growth medium, with lower pH favouring the lactam form. The lactam can be hydrolyzed to aspergillomarasmine A by treating it with trifluoroacetic acid.\n\nAspergillomarasmine A functions as a chelating agent, sequestering Fe ions. It can inhibit endothelin converting enzymes even in the live rat, probably by chelating metals required by metalloproteases.\n\nWhen heated, aspergillomarasmine A decomposes between 225° and 236 °C. Hydrolysis produces L-aspartic acid and racemic 2,3-diamino-propionic acid. [α] at pH 7 is -48°.\n\nWith nitrous acid aspergillomarasmine A is deaminated, and isoserine with aspartic acid is formed.\n\nTitration reveals changes in ionisation at pK 3.5 and 4.5 due to carboxylic acid groups, and pK 9.5 and 10 due to amino groups.\n\nTreatment with ninhydrin shows a purple colour.\n"}
{"id": "317047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317047", "title": "Associationism", "text": "Associationism\n\nAssociationism is the idea that mental processes operate by the association of one mental state with its successor states.\n\nThe idea is first recorded in Plato and Aristotle, especially with regard to the succession of memories. Members of the principally British \"Associationist School\", including John Locke, David Hume, David Hartley, Joseph Priestley, James Mill, John Stuart Mill, Alexander Bain, and Ivan Pavlov, asserted that the principle applied to all or most mental processes. Later members of the school developed very specific principles elaborating how associations worked and even a physiological mechanism bearing no resemblance to modern neurophysiology. For a fuller explanation of the intellectual history of associationism and the \"Associationist School\", see \"Association of Ideas\".\n\nSome of the ideas of the Associationist School anticipated the principles of conditioning and its use in behavioral psychology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49033035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49033035", "title": "CanniMed", "text": "CanniMed\n\nCanniMed Therapeutics Inc. is a Canadian public licensed producer of medical cannabis. It is primarily focused on cannabis oil. The company's predecessor, Prairie Plant Systems, was established in 1988 and is located in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. In 2013 CanniMed became the first cannabis producer to be licensed under Health Canada regulations that were issued that year. It went public in 2016, and in March 2018 almost all of its stock was acquired by a rival producer, Aurora Cannabis, following a hostile takeover to which company management finally consented.\n\nThe predecessor to CanniMed, Prairie Plant Systems, was established in 1988. PPS began its business by providing fruit trees to orchards. Fruit products include Saskatoon berries, haskap (blue honeysuckle) and dwarf sour cherries. In 1990, it entered a joint venture with Hudson Bay Mining to establish an underground growth chamber in the Trout Lake mine in Flin Flon, Manitoba.\n\nIn 2000, PPS received a contract from Health Canada to grow medical cannabis. It used its facility in Flin Flon for this purpose. From that time until 2013, PPS was the only company given a Health Canada license to grow cannabis, although as of 2012 only 12% of medical cannabis users used PPS, with most of the rest growing their own cannabis. In 2000 PPS set up a US subsidiary called SubTerra, and in 2003, it acquired the White Pine mine in Michigan, for use in bio-pharmaceutical research. In 2009, PPR lost its lease to the Flin Flon facility when a deposit of zinc was discovered below it, and so the company built its first above-ground cannabis growing facility.\n\nIn 2012, PPS through SubTerra announced its intention to grow medical cannabis in its Michigan mine, based on the 2008 legalization of medical cannabis in Michigan. In 2014 SubTerra bought an Upper Michigan power company in order to secure energy supply to its research facilities.\n\nIn 2013, Health Canada changed its medical cannabis regulations, banning in-home production and opening up commercial production to additional companies, and that year PPS and its new subsidiary CanniMed Ltd. became first producers to be certified under the regulations.\n\nIn June 2015 CanniMed received Health Canada approval for clinical trial of cannabis in adults with osteoarthritis of the knee. In January 2016, CanniMed received Health Canada approval to sell edible cannabis oil. On December 29, 2016, it held an IPO on the Toronto Stock Exchange, raising $69 million. The new public company was named CanniMed Therapeutics, and had Cannimed Ltd. and Prairie Plant Systems as subsidiaries. In March 2017, it announced a deal to distribute its products with PharmaChoice, a Canadian co-operative pharmacy chain. In April 2017, it announced a $10 million expansion of its facility in Saskatoon.\n\nIn November 2017, Aurora Cannabis started trying to acquire CanniMed, and claimed it had the support of 38% of shareholders. CanniMed management responded by rejecting the offer, and proposing an alternative merger with Newstrike Resources, a recreational cannabis firm, instead. In January, Newstrike shareholders approved the proposed merger, but CanniMed management started to reconsider Aurora's offer. In January 2018, Cannimed called off its proposed acquisition of Newstrik and agreed to be bought by Aurora for $1.1 billion in stock and cash to create a larger company than the industry leader at the time, Canopy Growth Corporation. Aurora had put out an offer to buy CanniMed's stock from its holders for cash and Aurora stock; the offer terminated at the end of March and by that time Aurora owned around 96% of CanniMed stock, and had paid out around 69.3 million of its shares and $134 million in cash. Aurora said at that time that it would compel the remaining shareholders to sell their stock and would formally absorb CanniMed at a later date. In April 2018 the CEO of CanniMed, Brent Zettl, resigned and Andre Jerome was appointed interim CEO. Around the time of acquisition CanniMed's stock price rose dramatically as people anticipated the legalization of cannabis in Canada in the summer of 2018, raising concerns about a bubble.\n\n"}
{"id": "1753023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1753023", "title": "Capital punishment in New Zealand", "text": "Capital punishment in New Zealand\n\nCapital punishment in New Zealand first appeared in a codified form when it became a British territory in 1840, and was first employed in 1842. It was last used in 1957, abolished for murder in 1961, and abolished altogether, including for treason, in 1989. During the period that it was in effect, 85 people were executed.\n\nThe method of execution was always by hanging. At first, there were many possible execution sites all around the country, but later, the only two cities where hangings were carried out were Wellington (the capital) and Auckland (now the largest city). Initially, there was no professional hangman employed—the executioner was simply chosen from among any who were deemed qualified. On occasion, convicted criminals were employed as hangmen, often in exchange for reduced sentences or monetary reward. In 1877, the sheriff of Blenheim recommended that a professional executioner be hired. Tom Long, an Irishman who claimed to have been an executioner in Australia, was hired as the first official hangman. He was the only official hangman to be publicly known; others remained anonymous.\n\nThe first person to be sentenced to death was a Māori youth named Maketu, who was found guilty of murdering a pakeha shepherd. However, he died of dysentery before the sentence could be carried out. The first person to be executed was Wiremu Kingi Maketu, who was found guilty of murdering five people on Motuarohia Island, in the Bay of Islands. The people killed were Thomas Bull, employed by Elisabeth Roberton, who was also murdered along with her son aged eight, her daughter of two, and a girl of nearly three named Isabella Brind, the natural daughter of one Captain Brind by a Maori woman, the daughter of Rewa, chief of Ngapuhi in that area. Mrs Roberton's husband, Captain John Roberton, had drowned prior in Paroa Bay, just opposite the island. Thomas Bull had a reputation for strength and brutality. He seemed at all times to have made a set at Maketu and had on several occasions struck, thrown, or otherwise maltreated him. Maketu, was unable to defend himself against such an opponent; nor indeed did it conform with his notions of dignity to do so, he being by virtue of his chiefly rank above combat with one who was a servant and whom he therefore regarded on the same plane as a slave. Maketu, therefore, bided his time for revenge. Maketu then killed Thomas Bull in the night with an axe; he then brutally murdered Mrs Roberton, who was shouting abuse at him and then went to murder the two girls (ransacking the house and then burning Mrs Roberton and the two children within it). The boy ran up Pa Hill, where Maketu chased him and threw him off the cliff. He was sentenced to death by an all-white jury (his defence had wanted a half-white, half-Māori jury) in an Auckland court, and executed in March 1842.\n\nAll the people executed were men, except Minnie Dean, found guilty of infanticide in 1895, and all were convicted of murder, except for Hamiora Pere, convicted of treason. However, before Dean's trial, imprisonment and execution, several other women had been found guilty of Infanticide in nineteenth-century New Zealand, but had had their death sentences commuted to life imprisonment. These were Caroline Whitting (1872), Phoebe Veitch (1883) and Sarah-Jane and Anna Flannagan (1891). The last person to be executed was Walter James Bolton, for poisoning his wife, on 18 February 1957.\n\nWhen the Labour Party formed its first government following the 1935 general election, it commuted all death sentences to life imprisonment. In 1941, the Crimes Amendment Act changed the penalty for murder from death to life imprisonment with hard labour. The only crimes for which the death penalty still applied were treason and piracy.\n\nThe Labour Party lost power to the more conservative National Party, which had pledged to reintroduce capital punishment, in 1949. During that earlier period, support and opposition for capital punishment were clearly delineated on partisan grounds. The National Party supported the restoration and maintenance of the death penalty, while the Labour Party opposed it. During debate over the Capital Punishment Act 1950, Labour expressed concern about the constitutional implications of the concentration of executive power in this context, while National Party Attorney-General Clifton Webb referred to the alleged \"deterrent\" value of the death penalty as potential threat and punitive severity. However, Webb was relatively sparing in his use of the death penalty, while his successor, Attorney-General Jack Marshall (1955–1958), was a hardliner on that issue and the number and pace of executions accelerated, arousing debate.\n\nDuring the time that the National Party was in office (1949–1958), 36 people were convicted of murder, and 22 of those were sentenced to death. The final decision on executions rested with Cabinet, and only eight of the condemned were executed. The rest were commuted to life imprisonment. Even then, professional opinion was divided. Film censor Gordon Mirams did not regard spectacles of hanging as appropriate content within crime dramas and western films and excised such content and dialogue on the basis of family propriety.\n\nAccording to Department of Justice historian Pauline Engel, the British Royal Commission on Capital Punishment (1953) may have heavily influenced the rise of abolitionism, as did the controversies that surrounded the executions of Harry Whiteland and Edward Te Whiu, which raised questions about post-war trauma, intellectual and developmental disability as factors for leniency.\n\nSocial historian Redmer Yska has argued that such concern arose much earlier. When the National Party restored capital punishment in 1950, it became an administrative ordeal for civil servants involved, particularly those within correctional facilities like Mount Eden Prison in Auckland, law enforcement and the judiciary. Corrections staff needed to maintain suicide watch for the convicted felon, conduct regular health checks and provide pastoral care for the condemned individual's relatives, as well as insure prison security during executions.\n\nOfficial requirements mandated the presence of a magistrate, doctor and sheriffs. During the late fifties, Attorney-General Jack Marshall accelerated the pace of executions and post-traumatic stress disorder, alcoholism and duodenal haemorrhaging developed amongst two of the three staff obliged to participate during execution procedures. In cases of political import, prudent reprieves and commuted penalties did occur, as happened when three Niue Islanders were sentenced to death after killing a manifestly brutal and oppressive Resident Commissioner. On that occasion, the Public Questions Committee of the Presbyterian Church of New Zealand became involved in strenuously lobbying against the verdict.\n\nClass differences were also seen to affect the verdict. Dr. Senga Wintringham was convicted of manslaughter, rather than murder, in February 1955, after shooting and killing Dr Bill Saunders. Wintringham claimed that she had only meant to intimidate him, rather than kill him. \"The Peoples Voice\", newspaper of the Communist Party of New Zealand, criticised the perceived \"double standard\" in this context, as the courts had just convicted and sentenced nineteen-year-old British migrant and itinerant labourer Frederick Foster to death, despite questions about mental illness and intellectual impairment in his context, as well as appeals from his mother. Foster had shot and killed Sharon Skeffington, his former girlfriend. Although Foster was sentenced to death and executed, defence counsel Dr Martyn Finlay succeeded in raising questions about the limited intellectual capabilities and mental health of the condemned person in this context. Similar questions would arise in the trial, conviction and execution of Albert Webb. The \"New Zealand Listener\" editorialised against the death penalty in July 1955, and received supportive feedback from its letters page correspondents.\n\nEddie Te Whiu was hanged in August 1955, after he had killed an elderly widow in Ngararatunua, near Kamo, when an attempted burglary went wrong. Abolitionist sentiment grew again, as, with the Foster and Black cases, there was perceptible anxiety about the failure of \"deterrence\" value in the context of violent homicides, and whether Te Whiu should have been convicted of manslaughter instead, due to his dysfunctional family origins and limited intellectual capabilities. As a result, a National Committee for Abolition of the Death Penalty was formed in November 1956, with branches in Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.\n\nEngel and Maureen Garing have drawn attention to the involvement of Protestant Christian opposition to capital punishment. In 1941 and 1951, the Christian Social Justice League, Christchurch Anglican Diocesan Synod and Methodist Public Questions Committee supported abolition, as did individual Catholics, although their hierarchy remained neutral in this debate. The New Zealand Theosophical Society also opposed capital punishment, and the Churches of Christ and Baptist Union declared its opposition in the late fifties. As religious opposition grew, it provided opponents of capital punishment with an organisational base that was used to good effect. Redmer Yska notes that clergy often refused to participate in legitimising executions through their presence, of whatever denomination.\n\nAs a consequence of controversy over the perceived escalation in use of capital punishment, abolitionist petitions started to circulate as well. In 1956, a proposal for a referendum on capital punishment was put forward by the Minister of Justice, Jack Marshall. This referendum was to be voted on during the 1957 general election, but the proposal was defeated.\n\nMeanwhile, Walter James Bolton (1888–1957) was executed at Mount Eden Prison in Auckland in February 1957, after he had allegedly poisoned his wife with arsenic. Given that the National Party lost that election, there were to be no further executions within New Zealand. However, while the election saw a short-lived Labour government elected, capital punishment was not debated in Parliament again before the National party regained power after the 1960 election.\n\nIn 1961, the National Party reaffirmed its support for the death penalty, although restricted its use to premeditated murders, and those committed during another crime or during an escape from custody. The issue of capital punishment generated intensive debate within the National Party—the Minister of Justice in the Second National Government, who was responsible for introducing the Crimes Bill 1961, Ralph Hanan, strongly opposed the death penalty, while Jack Marshall, the Deputy Prime Minister, had condoned its use while serving as Minister of Justice and Attorney General, as noted above.\n\nAware of growing public opposition to capital punishment, the National Party allowed its MPs to exercise a conscience vote in Parliament, and ten National MPs subsequently voted in favour of abolition. The result was a majority of 11 against capital punishment, 41-30. The ten National MPs were Rev. Ernest Aderman, Gordon Grieve, Ralph Hanan, Duncan MacIntyre, Robert Muldoon, Herbert Pickering, Logan Sloane, Brian Talboys, Mrs Esme Tombleson and Bert Walker. The death penalty was therefore abolished for murder, being retained only for treason and other similar acts in theory. In principle, this meant that de facto abolition had occurred from that point onward.\n\nThese last theoretical vestiges of capital punishment were abolished under the Palmer Labour cabinet in November 1989 with the passage of the \"Abolition of the Death Penalty Act 1989\", and there were no further executions during the interim period. Passage of the \"Abolition of the Death Penalty Act\" ended all capital punishment in New Zealand. The Cook Islands, which based its statutes on New Zealand law, formally retained the death penalty for treason until it was abolished in 2007. The death penalty was never used in the Cook Islands.\n\nOccasional calls to reinstate capital punishment still occur, but no major political party has made capital punishment an element of any of their election manifestos since the 1989 Abolition act.\n\nA 2004 1 News Colmar Brunton poll found 28% were in favour of bringing back the death penalty, 67% did not want to bring the death penalty back, and 5% were undecided. In a 2013 Curia poll for TV3’s \"The Nation\", 38% of New Zealanders were in favour of the death penalty—a nominal increase from the 28% in 2004—while 55% were opposed it, and 7% were undecided. Also in the poll, 35% of Labour voters favoured the death penalty and National voters' support polled at 44%. Least likely to be in favour were Green Party voters at 19%, but the strongest support came from New Zealand First voters at 84%. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11095531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11095531", "title": "Carl Leone", "text": "Carl Leone\n\nCarl Desmond Leone (born c.1976) is a Canadian businessman from Windsor, Ontario. Leone was jailed after pleading guilty in a Windsor court to 15 counts of aggravated sexual assault for not informing his sexual partners of his positive HIV status. It is believed he has been charged with exposing more women to the AIDS-causing virus than anyone in Canadian history.\n\nIn 1997, Leone was told by Windsor Essex County Health Unit workers that he was HIV-positive. Seven years later on June 6, 2004, he was arrested. On June 10, police issued a public safety advisory that resulted in more than 100 people seeking HIV tests for having been a partner of Leone or possibly being linked to him. Under Canadian criminal law, people knowing they are HIV positive have a legal duty to disclose their HIV status before engaging in behaviors that put another person at significant risk of serious bodily harm. This is the result of the 1998 ruling by the Supreme Court of Canada in R. v. Cuerrier, which held that a partner cannot truly give informed consent if the other fails to disclose their HIV status.\n\nComplainants said they would not have been Leone's partner had he been truthful about his status. Six of the 22 complainants tested positive for HIV (three of them learned of their condition after his arrest) with the same rare strain that Leone was infected with. The strain is extremely rare in Canada, and the number of local cases represented an unusually high concentration for the country and constituted a public health issue for the Public Health Agency of Canada. Dr. Paul Sandstrom, director of the National HIV & Retrovirology Laboratories, testified that \"Windsor cluster\" was unique in North America because it is a different HIV strain infection than the one that began spreading across North America in the early-1980s and is more commonly found in Southeast Asia.\n\nInitially, Leone was refused bail but turned to well-known criminal defence lawyer Edward Greenspan who successfully appealed the decision. Leone was released after posting bail of nearly $800,000.\n\nBy the time of the trial, Leone was represented by Andrew Bradie. On April 27, 2007, prior to any of the complainants testifying, Leone agreed to plead guilty. The agreement spared the complainants the experience of testifying and also marked the first time he publicly acknowledged his HIV-positive status.\nOn October 23, 2007, the Deputy Attorney General of Ontario approved the Crown attorney's motion to pursue a dangerous offender designation for Leone. Under the Criminal Code, a person designated a dangerous offender may be indefinitely incarcerated so that they do not get released into society if there is a fear they may re-offend due to their violent tendencies.\n\nAt the time of sentencing, the Windsor Star interviewed detectives Pat Keane and Bill Stibbard, who investigated the case, and a pair of Leone's victims who were 17 and 18 at the time of Leone's offences. The detectives and women described how Leone lured the teenage girls (under the drinking age) through internet chatrooms and online messengers to night clubs, drugged them, took them to other locations, and engaged in unprotected sex with their unconscious bodies. The detectives said that at least four victims claimed that Leone had raped them while unconscious. The detectives also told of a 16-year-old girl and another woman, who was a virgin when she met Leone, whom he infected with HIV. In trial, Leone's parole officer claimed that Leone informed her that he had purchased date rape drugs from drug dealers.\n\nLeone was sentenced to 18 years in prison in April 2008, with eligibility for parole in six years. The judge said he was unable to designate him a dangerous offender because there was insufficient evidence that he would commit similar offences if released.\n"}
{"id": "25211466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211466", "title": "Chesapeake Regional Information System for our Patients", "text": "Chesapeake Regional Information System for our Patients\n\nThe Chesapeake Regional Information System for our Patients (CRISP) is a nonprofit organization created to function as Maryland’s state-designated health information exchange (HIE), by the Maryland Health Care Commission. CRISP currently serves as the HIE for Maryland and the District of Columbia. CRISP is advised by a wide range of stakeholders who are responsible for healthcare throughout the region.\n\nHealth information exchange allows clinical information to move electronically among disparate health information systems. The goal of the HIE is to deliver the right health information to the right place at the right time – providing safer, timelier, efficient, effective, equitable, patient centered care. In doing so, CRISP offers a suite of tools aimed at improving the facilitation of care for their service region’s providers. CRISP was created by Johns Hopkins Medicine, MedStar Health, the University of Maryland Medical System and Erickson Retirement Communities, and receives input from a wide range of sources, including clinicians, hospitals, patients, privacy advocates, payers, and regulators and policymakers.\n\nAudacious Inquiry is one of several contracted service providers and developers that works with CRISP to enable and manage exchange services and initially served as the program director for the effort. Initiate Systems (IBM) and Axolotl Corporation (Ingenix) were selected in 2009 to provide software as a service to enable clinical information exchange via CRISP. CRISP replaced Axolotl with Mirth Results (NextGen) in 2011.\n\nIn 2006, CRISP began at a Spring meeting between John Erickson and the CIOs of Maryland’s three largest hospital systems, asking how to make medical records for seniors available when they visited the hospital. By 2008, CRISP had partnered with MHCC to plan an HIE for Maryland, the processed engaged dozens of healthcare stakeholders. CRISP received $10 million in seed funding through an adjustment in the reimbursement rates for participating hospitals. The Office of the National Coordinator awarded Maryland $9.3 million to implement statewide health information exchange through CRISP. In the 2009 legislative session, Governor Martin O’Malley signed into law House Bill 706, which gives the Maryland Health Care Commission (MHCC) the authority to regulate the state’s insurance industry to provide incentives for doctors to connect their practices to CRISP’s health information exchange. Maryland's Health IT Extension Center became a reality in 2010 with a grant from the department of Health and Human Services for $5.5 million. Today, CRISP has connected with all of the acute care hospitals in Maryland and DC, and has rolled out several new services, and dozens of new features. CRISP has even expanded their connectivity through partnerships with neighboring HIEs.\n\nAt CRISP’s inception, an HIE Policy Board was convened by the MHCC. The board has oversight authority for establishing the policies that govern the statewide HIE. For more information about the Policy Board click here. Additionally, CRISP, in coordination with the MHCC, has developed a governance model that includes a Board of Advisors to provide guidance and input to the CRISP Board of Directors on certain key decisions during the development and operations of the HIE. The Board of Advisors is intended to be broad-based to ensure that a breadth of interested organizations have the opportunity to participate and represent their constituencies. There are currently over 30 organizations represented.\n\nThe Board of Advisors is organized into five committees:\n\n"}
{"id": "50293604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50293604", "title": "Childbirth in India", "text": "Childbirth in India\n\nChildbirth practices in India are shaped by the prevalence of Hinduism and joint-family living, India's young average population, the lower national average age at marriage, and disparities in social status and literacy between men and women. Inadequate maternal health care services in India are a result of poor organization, the huge rural-urban divide, and large interstate disparities coupled with stringent social-economic and cultural constraints.\n\nThe joint-family system is one of the basic features of Hindu social organization. Therefore, since Hinduism is the primary practiced religion in India, the joint-family system constitutes the majority of family structures in India. The joint-family system is described as follows:\n“In structure, it comprises a married man, his father, his grandfather and his collaterals within three generations. The different kinsmen along with their spouses and children occupy the same dwelling, eat and worship together, and enjoy property in common. They cooperate in economic activity and, even if the members are differentiated occupationally, pool their earnings. The joint-family provides nursing care for the sick and afflicted, social security for the unemployed, and support for the aged”\n“They share the various routines, problems, and joys of social living, have strong feelings of mutual obligation during crises, and regard self-interest as being identical with family welfare. Their respect for the wisdom and justice of the eldest male permits him and his spouse to render decisions which affect each and every member of the unit”\n\n“The median ages at marriage for women and men in Central India are slightly lower than the national averages. Early age at marriage is especially rampant in the villages, and among couples belonging to the Hindu and Buddhist faiths”. Moreover, the age at which males and females get married in India have remained constant for several decades. In the 1960s, it was reported that the median ages at marriage in India are 16.4 years for urban women, 14.6 years for rural women, 23.0 years for urban men, and 20.2 years for rural men.\n\nThe literacy rate in India has improved considerably over time. The rate has increased from 43.56 percent in 1981 to 52.11 percent in 1991. Literacy rates do vary significantly among different regions of the nation. For example, the literacy rate is higher in south India than in the north. Also, a significant literacy gap exists between men and women. In 1991, the male literacy rate reached 62.86 percent and the female literacy rate was only 39.42 percent.\n\nTwo thousand years ago, the position of women in the Hindu society was described as, “a woman should never be independent. Her father has authority over her in childhood, husband in her youth, and in old age her son has authority over her”. However, following post-independence in India, there has been some change in the status of women, however it seems that change only exists among women who are wealthier and have had opportunities for education and employment. The older societal male dominated views regarding women still prevails in rural areas.\n\nFarming is the largest single occupation in India. Approximately 28 percent of the Indian population lives below the poverty line with large inter-state variations. Poverty in India is concentrated in the central and eastern states, therefore, poverty levels are significantly higher than the nation's average in these areas. The central and eastern states of India account for 55 percent of the total poor population in India. Coincidentally, these poor states also contributed to half of the maternal deaths in India. This is most likely due to the fact that the use of maternal care services are very limited in these states.\n\nAlternatively, the western and southern states of India are economically and demographically more advanced than the northern and eastern states. Subsequently, these states account for only 17 percent of maternal deaths most likely due to a higher use of maternal care services in these areas. Studies indicate that there is a negative association between the use of maternal care and maternal mortality ratio.\n\nIn 2011, 69 percent of India’s population was rural. Many citizens live in villages and are involved in agriculture, which to a westerner seems similar to small town. The rural areas often have inhabitants that live below the poverty line. Alternatively, a portion of the population lives in cities, which is noted as the wealthiest portion of the population. However, the urban population includes many poor people from the countryside who often live in slums that contain a fifth of India’s city dwellers. This portion of the population often works as laborers or in services. India has a huge urban middle class as well that are businessmen and professionals.\n\nIn India deaths due to malnutrition, famines, and gastro-intestinal ailments are being decreased through improved agricultural production and distribution and the purification of water supplies.\n\nIn addition, the Government of India and the World Health Organization have launched national programs of medical care and preventive medicine which, on the basis of recent surveys, appear effective in lowering the incidence of smallpox, cholera, plague, malaria, filariasis, tuberculosis, and venereal diseases.\n\nIn regard to maternal healthy theories, age at marriage and fertility have been shown to be correlated. Also, poor states in India contributed to half of the maternal deaths in India. Therefore, there is a negative association between the use of maternal care and maternal mortality ratio.\n\nThe percent of women in India who had an unmet need for family planning is 21 percent. 75 percent of women have one visit covered by insurance for antenatal visits. 50 percent of women have at least 4 antenatal visits covered by their insurance. 67 percent of women in India have their births attended by a skilled medical professional. Only 8 percent of births resulted in a cesarean section. 48 percent of woman went to their postnatal visits 2 days after their birth.\n\nThe total fertility rate per woman in India is 2.5.\n\nThe average life expectancy in India is 66 years old. For women, it is specifically 68 years old and for men it is 64 years old.\n\nIn 2015, India’s maternal mortality was 174 per 100,000 live births. In 2005, it was estimated that the maternal mortality ratio in India is 16 times higher than that of Russia, 10 times that of China and 4 times higher than Brazil. Among developing countries, India contributes to the largest amount of births in the world a year, averaging 27 million births. However, unfortunately India also accounts for 20 percent of global maternal deaths in year.\n\nPrenatal care access and utilization is largely affected by socioeconomic status, geographic location, and maternal education and autonomy. Use of prenatal care increased 12 percent from 1992 to 2006, but this increase was due to greater utilization by non-poor women. Poor women’s utilization of prenatal care remained relatively stagnant, at only 6.3 percent. Geographically, some Indian states have significantly lower rates of prenatal care. For example, according to 2006 studies in Uttar Pradesh, only 9 percent of women receive prenatal care, as opposed to 72 percent in Tamil Nadu. Higher rates in Tamil Nadu could be a result of the Janani Suraksha Yojana program, which financially incentivizes women to have birth in a health facility and receive a tubal ligation after 1 to 2 births. This program has also resulted in lower maternal mortality rate (MMR), lower fertility rate, and higher female literacy rate.\n\nPregnancy is perceived positively in India, and most married women are extremely happy to learn of their pregnancy. Fertility is highly valued, and community members may begin to look negatively upon a woman if she is married for a year without any sign of pregnancy. If a couple is infertile, they will often seek out a piece of dried skin from the umbilical cord of a friend’s baby. Eating this is believed to improve fertility.\n\nIn preparing for birth, Indian women who live with their husbands generally seek counsel from their mothers-in-law. The advice of maternal figures is highly valued, and expectant mothers will follow the childbearing rituals passed down to them by their mother-in-law. Sleep positions, eating habits, and level of activity are all influenced by the views of older women of the family. Aside from what is told to them, women receive very little knowledge regarding birth itself. Often, women are very fearful for their birth, as they have only been told of the pain from others.\n\nThe maternal figures of the family, especially the mothers-in-law, pass on customs regarding nutrition, hygiene, and daily activities during pregnancy. Frequently, “cold” foods such as fruit are avoided during pregnancy for fear of causing sickness or stillbirth. In some traditions, women may only drink hot tea and rice milk.\n\nThe older women of the family determine each expectant mother’s activity level and sleep habits, following family tradition. Some women are told to increase their activity levels in order to prepare the body for the hard work of labor, while other rest throughout pregnancy to save energy. Sleeping may also be regulated, and some women never sleep on their back or turn over during pregnancy.\n\nPain is expected during labor and is seen as part of the natural labor process. There is little knowledge about options such as epidurals in some communities. Depending on birth location, some women receive pain relief from warm water and massage, while other receive little support or even human touch. In hospital births, private hospitals have a higher rate of pain relief. One study found the rate for private hospitals to be 9.9 percent while the public hospitals had a rate of 0.9 percent.\n\nDuring labour, the mother and child both needs adequate monitoring. Inadequate monitoring during labour can increase the chances of the baby going into distress which can potentially lead to the death of child before birth. It is also known as still birth. Its an unfortunate scenario that the largest number of stillbirths, more than 330,000 every year, happen only in India. \n\nFemale relatives and neighbors may support the mother by serving tea, heating water, and helping with wrapping the newborn after birth.\n\nBirth location often determines the amount and type of supportive behavior. Women who give birth in hospitals are generally supported by nurses, although the extent of this support varies. Some express dissatisfaction with the lack of physical touch and comfort in the hospital. At home, women are supported by the “wise women” of the family with massage and warm water, although this also varies by family.\n\nOn average, 83.1 percent of births are attended by skilled health personnel. However, this varies greatly by region. Traditional birth assistants (TBAs) attend 37 percent of home births in India. These TBAs often lack knowledge and literacy regarding safe birthing practices, but could have a large influence in reducing maternal mortality if properly trained. If educated properly on birthing positions, sanitary practices, weighing of the baby, maintaining adequate newborn body temperature, and handling postpartum hemorrhage, maternal and infant health in India could improve dramatically. The other 63 percent of home births are unattended, and women who deliver in a health facility or hospital are cared for by nurses and doctors.\n\nThe majority of TBAs, who attend 37 percent of home births in India, are married and have not been to school. They may be trained or untrained, but the trained TBAs are generally younger with less work experience, and are paid for their services. The untrained TBAs are older, more experienced, and are generally unpaid. Most TBAs entered the field after either attending several family births, birthing their own child, or following the footsteps of a family member.\n\nThe decision about where the birth is to take place is made by the woman’s father or brother. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 61 percent of births in India take place at home, and the majority of these are not attended by a skilled birthing assistant. Seventy-six percent of mothers reported using the sitting or squatting position for their last birth. The remaining 24 percent birthed in the supine position. Eating and drinking customs, as well as rest, activity, and movement during labor, are determined by the mother-in-law or other older maternal figure in the family.\n\nAfter the placenta is delivered, the cord is cut and an herbal oil, face powder, or ash mixture is rubbed on the cut section. The placenta is buried near the home, or in some communities burned. Nine days after birth, a ceremony is conducted at the placental burial site to announce the name of the baby. At home births, the baby is sometimes not caught after being delivered and remains lying on the floor until the placenta is delivered.\n\nThe cesarean section rate in India was 8.2 percent in 2008, which is below the WHO’s recommended 10-15 percent. However, this number is higher in some private hospitals. The use of interventions such as episiotomies, induction, and cesarean section varies between private and public hospitals. A study of women in Delhi found that the cesarean rate in private hospitals was 53.8 percent while the rate at public hospitals was 23.7 percent. The same study reported that the episiotomy rate in private hospitals was 74.9 percent compared to the public hospital rate of 57.8 percent. The rates of induction of labor were found to be 30.8 percent and 20.6 percent.\n\nThe postpartum period begins after the delivery of the placenta. In Hindu communities, a “sutak” or “pollution confinement” period, which is a length of time for which the mother and baby are considered unclean, follows the birth. The mother and baby are in a place of confinement, usually a room in the home, during the “sutak” period. This can range in length from 3 to 10 days, and no family or community members may interact with the mother and baby during this time. At the end of this period, a “kuan pujan” or “ceremony at the well” occurs, in which the mother and baby are purified and considered clean. In Muslim communities, this period does not exist. The baby is sprinkled with holy water in a ritual bath.\n\nWomen receive a henna tattoo after birth, which is meant to prevent depression and sickness and promote bonding between mother and baby. A ceremony is conducted on the ninth day postpartum to announce the name of the baby at the placental burial site. Additionally, the “kuan pujan” ceremony is performed around the same time to signify the cleanliness of mother and baby.\n\nHindu women may follow the “hot” and “cold” balanced diet. “Hot” foods are those high in protein, sodium, and acid, while “cold” foods are those that are sweet or starchy. Many women are advised to avoid cold foods to avoid sickness, and have more hot foods during the postpartum period to relieve stomach pain. Other women in India generally continue to heed the advice of their mothers-in-law regarding the postnatal period.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, 54.8 percent of women utilized contraception in 2008. Female sterilization constitutes two-thirds of contraception use in Southern India, and is popular throughout the country. In some areas, there are financial incentives for undergoing tubal ligation after one or two children. Women who are Muslim, educated, or of higher socioeconomic status are more likely to choose more traditional, temporary methods of contraception instead of sterilization. Poor women typically experience more unwanted pregnancies, and therefore worse birth outcomes, due to lack of contraception access. Sterilization is less common for women who have not yet had a son.\n\nMany women mark their babies’ faces with “bindi” and tie small threads around the baby's’ wrists, ankles, and neck to ward off evil spirits. On the ninth day postpartum, a ceremony to name the child is conducted at the site of the placental burial.\n\nA male baby is considered preferable in Indian culture. Despite laws prohibiting sex-selective abortions, they still occur, and have caused an unbalanced male to female sex ratio in India. Due to their higher status, it is custom in some areas to wait until the male baby is at least 1 year old before cutting his hair. In this ceremony, done at a Hindu temple, the family offers thanks for the blessing of a son.\n\nIf delivered by a TBA, the baby will most likely be bathed with warm water immediately by the assistant. In some communities, women report waiting at least 9 days before bathing their baby, with some waiting as long as 3 months. It is believed to cause sickness and fever in a young baby. Incense is also frequently used after bathing the baby, as it is believed to kill germs and dry the hair more quickly.\n\nNewborns are given warm water, honey, mustard oil, tea, or goat’s/cow’s milk after birth, before breastfeeding is initiated. Most women initiate breastfeeding within a few hours after birth, and continue to exclusively breastfeed for 6–7 months. The newborn is typically not weighed after birth in India. Several factors contribute to the absence of weighing, such as lack of access to scales at home, lack of knowledge of scale usage in the hospital, belief that the “evil eye” will come upon the baby, and cultural tradition passed on through the generations. Due to this factor, most babies are simply said to be 2.5 to 3 kg, even when they have not been weighed. As India accounts for 40 percent of the world’s low birth weight newborns, this is a large area of focus for improvement.\n\nCircumcision is linked to both outdated hygiene practices and religious beliefs. Among the Muslim community, it is seen as a mandatory ritual.\n\nThe infant mortality rate is 47 per 1000 live births and the neonatal mortality rate is 32 per 1000 live births.\n"}
{"id": "33283145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33283145", "title": "Danny Birt", "text": "Danny Birt\n\nDanny Birt is an American-born Music Therapist and Massage Therapist, but is more widely known as an award-winning author of science fiction and fantasy literary works, and as a composer and performer of filk and other music.\n\nDanny Birt was born and raised in the western half of the United States. He attended high school and junior college at New Mexico Military Institute in Roswell, NM, Loyola University New Orleans for his bachelor's degrees, and Shenandoah University for his master's degree. Birt is a medical professional in the fields of Music Therapy and Massage Therapy.\n\nToday, Birt is most widely known for his published science fiction and fantasy works, and his published instrumental and parody music. Birt is invited frequently to appear at renaissance festivals and to be a panelist at literary science fiction and fantasy conventions, where he commonly gives live musical performances.\n\n\"Between a Roc and a Hard Place\" (Toybox Books, November 2010) is a children’s/YA chapter book about a baby dragon who is abandoned as an egg and is raised by a family of birds (Rocs). The book’s cover art and illustrations are by Swedish artist Richard Svensson.\n\n\"Between a Roc and a Hard Place\" has been recognized with the following awards:\n\nThe book has been praised by some reviewers for its take on such diverse themes as adoption and environmentalism, but has been criticized by other reviewers as having too advanced a vocabulary for younger readers, yet being too short a story for older readers.\n\n\"Pinkbeard\" in the anthology Spells and Swashbucklers (Dragon Moon Press, 2012)\n\n\"Stealing the Sky\" in the anthology Tales of Fortannis (Double Dragon Publishing, 2011)\n\n\"What Does Luck Taste Like?\" in the anthology Time in a Bottle (Altered Dimensions, 2010)\n\n\"Booty Haul\" in the anthology Rum and Runestones (Dragon Moon Press, 2010)\n\n\"A Spell of Bad Weather\" in Realms Magazine (Black Matrix Publishing, 2009)\n\n\"Murphy the Android and His Law\" in Abandoned Towers Magazine (Cyberwizard Productions, 2008)\n\nFive 55-word Fantasy Stories in the CWP anthology Strange Worlds of Lunacy (CyberAliens Press, 2008)\n\n\"The Laurian Pentology\", a five-book collegiate-level epic fantasy series. The series includes:\n\nIn addition to having a master's degree in music therapy and being certified as a Music Therapist, Birt is a published composer, and is a frequent live performer of filk music at American science fiction and fantasy conventions. Birt was the coordinator of the Filk/Music programming track for the 2010 North American Science Fiction Convention and for DeepSouthCon50 in 2012 \n\nSome of the songs from Birt’s 2007 album \"Warped Children’s Songs\" have been featured on local and national radio programs such as The Dr. Demento show, and on internet comedy music sites such as The FuMP.\n\n\"Narcoleptic Pianist on CDbaby\" (Somnifacient Records, 2002) – an hour-long nonstop piano solo written for insomniacs.\n\n\"Warped Children’s Songs\" (Somnifacient Records, 2007) – parodies of children’s songs, such as Mary Had A Business Plan and Row, Row, Row Your Raft.\n\n\"Piano Petrissage on CDbaby\" (Somnifacient Records, 2010) – an hour-plus nonstop piano solo composed and arranged for play during massage therapy sessions, yoga sessions, and meditation.\n\n\"Od-Ditties on CDbaby\" (Somnifacient Records, 2011) - Recorded Live at RavenCon 2011; songs to make your inner nerd snicker.\n\n\"Otter Teas on CDbaby\" (Somnifacient Records, 2013) Songs ranging from King Arthur to Harry Potter, from Dungeons & Dragons to Star Wars, and from Mole Day to the hypothalamus, this filk album covers some of fandom's favorite haunts \"shotgun-style.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "5995619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5995619", "title": "Dysgammaglobulinemia", "text": "Dysgammaglobulinemia\n\nDysgammaglobulinemia is a type of immune disorder characterized by a reduction in some types of gamma globulins, resulting in heightened susceptibility to some infectious diseases where primary immunity is antibody based.\n\nIt is distinguished from hypogammaglobulinemia, which is a reduction in \"all\" types of gamma globulins.\n\nHyper IgM syndrome can be considered a form of dysgammaglobulinemia, because it results from a failure of transformation from IgM production to production of other antibodies, and so the condition can be interpreted as a reduction of the other types.\n\n"}
{"id": "55516057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55516057", "title": "Executive Order 13813", "text": "Executive Order 13813\n\nThe Executive Order Promoting Healthcare Choice and Competition, also known as the Trumpcare Executive Order, or Trumpcare, is an Executive Order signed by President Donald Trump on October 12, 2017, which directs federal agencies to modify how the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of the Obama Administration is implemented. The order included a directive to federal agencies to end rules forbidding employers from using health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs) to pay individual insurance premiums.\n\nIn a separate announcement made shortly after the order was signed, Trump announced that he would end subsidies to health insurance companies that sell to low-income consumers through the state health insurance marketplaces.\n\nSome sources have described the effect of these executive actions as replacing Obamacare with a new healthcare regime; several days after signing the order, Donald Trump himself stated in a press conference that reporters should no longer refer to \"Obamacare\" because \"it's gone, there is no such thing as Obamacare anymore\".\n\nThe first executive order signed by U.S. President Donald Trump, executed just hours after he was sworn into office on January 20, 2017, was Executive Order 13765, titled \"Executive Order Minimizing the Economic Burden of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Pending Repeal\". The order set out interim procedures in anticipation of repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (popularly known as the ACA, or Obamacare). The order came on Trump's campaign pledges to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which Trump stated would take a long time, with a replacement possibly not being ready until 2018.\n\nOn May 4, 2017, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the American Health Care Act of 2017 (ACHA) by a narrow margin of 217–213, sending the bill to the Senate for deliberation. It would repeal the parts of the Affordable Care Act within the scope of the federal budget, including provisions contained within the Internal Revenue Code such as the \"individual mandates\" (in ), employer mandates (in ) and various taxes ( et. seq.), and also modifications to the federal Medicaid program (in Sections 111-116 and 121).\n\nThe nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projected that the AHCA would increase the number of uninsured people by 23 million over 10 years, but would decrease the federal budget deficit by $119 billion over the same period (about 1%), mainly by cutting Medicaid coverage for lower income Americans. Both the House AHCA bill and Senate BCRA bill would cut taxes largely for wealthy Americans. Insurance premiums were projected to decrease for younger, healthier, and wealthier people, while older and poorer people would likely see their premiums increase.\n\nSenate Republicans initially approached the AHCA with an unprecedented level of secrecy; a group of 13 Republican Senators drafted the Senate's substitute version in private, raising bipartisan concerns about a lack of transparency and about the all-male composition of the committee. On June 22, 2017, Republicans released the first discussion draft for an amendment to the bill. On July 25, 2017, although no amendment proposal had yet garnered majority support, Senate Republicans voted to advance the bill to the floor and begin formal consideration of amendments.\n\nOn July 28, 2017, the bill was returned to the calendar after the Senate rejected several amendments, including , the \"Skinny Repeal\" package offered by Sen. Mitch McConnell, which failed on a 49–51 vote. Sens. John McCain, Susan Collins, and Lisa Murkowski were the only Republicans to vote against the measure. On September 13, 2017, Senators Graham, Cassidy, Heller, and Johnson released a draft amendment to the bill that \"repeals the structure and architecture of Obamacare and replaces it with a block grant given annually to states\". However, it was not voted upon due to lack of support. The deadline for Congressional Republicans to end the ACA as part of the Congressional budget reconciliation process (which would enable Senate Republicans to pass new legislation with 51 votes, rather than 60) then expired on September 30, 2017.\n\nFollowing the failure of Congress to repeal the ACA through legislation, Trump issued the new order. Both supporters and critics asserted that the provisions of the order were intended to redefine the American health care market and effectively replace Obamacare with a new health care regime. Trump briefly forgot to sign the order before leaving the signing ceremony, but was ushered back to the table by Vice President Mike Pence to complete this step. Senator Rand Paul, who attended the signing, described the order as \"the biggest free market reform of health care in a generation\".\n\nThe order reverses a number of aspects of Obamacare upon which that regime had relied.\n\nSection 1, title \"Policy\", lays out the policies supporting the provisions of the order, noting that the order directs that the government \"facilitate the purchase of insurance across State lines\" and prioritizes \"association health plans (AHPs), short-term, limited-duration insurance (STLDI), and health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs)\". Whereas Obamacare had prohibited insurance companies from selling low-cost short term health insurance plans \"that can circumvent some of the mandates created under Obamacare\", such as requiring coverage for persons with preexisting conditions, and requiring coverage for various medical services. The order reversed this prohibition, and also directs the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury to ease access to \"association health plans\", which also need not provide the coverage that had been mandated by Obamacare, and expands health savings accounts.\n\nSection 2, titled \"Expanded Access to Association Health Plans\", directs the Secretary of Labor to take steps to \"expand access to health coverage by allowing more employers to form AHPs\".\n\nSection 3, titled \"Expanded Availability of Short-Term, Limited‑Duration Insurance\", directs the Secretaries of the Treasury, Labor, and Health and Human Services to take steps to \"expand the availability of STLDI\".\n\nSection 4, titled \"Expanded Availability and Permitted Use of Health Reimbursement Arrangements\", directs the Secretaries of the Treasury, Labor, and Health and Human Services to take steps to \"increase the usability of HRAs, to expand employers' ability to offer HRAs to their employees, and to allow HRAs to be used in conjunction with nongroup coverage\".\n\nA separate decision on the same day commonly associated with the executive order resulted in no longer paying the cost sharing reduction (CSR) subsidies, which are payments to insurers to keep premiums down for low-income persons. The Congressional Budget Office reported in August 2017 that not making the CSR payments could increase health insurance premiums on the ACA exchanges by as much as 20% and add nearly $200 billion to the budget deficit over a decade. The deficit increase is because the premium tax credit subsidy (the largest Affordable Care Act subsidy) increases to offset increases in health insurance premium amounts, far outweighing savings from not paying the smaller CSR subsidy.\n\nCritics described the Executive Order as another part of an ongoing strategy to sabotage the ACA by enabling insurance companies to circumvent ACA mandates and sell insurance that does not cover mandated conditions, and excludes individuals with pre-existing conditions. Other elements alleged to be part of the sabotage strategy include denying funding not mandated by law for cost sharing reduction (CSR) subsidies, significantly reducing funding for enrollment advertising and support efforts, asserting that the ACA exchanges are in a \"death spiral\" (contrary to CBO conclusions), and conducting negative advertising campaigns, among other measures.\n\nFor example, President Trump tweeted on October 13, 2017 that: \"The Democrats ObamaCare is imploding. Massive subsidy payments to their pet insurance companies has stopped. Dems should call me to fix!\". Journalist Ezra Klein wrote that: \"Trump has long held the view that if he can inflict sufficient damage to the Affordable Care Act, Democrats will have no choice but to cut a deal — on Trump’s terms — to save it\". \n\nJournalist Sarah Kliff wrote that: \"Trump announced last week he would stop making [CSR] payments. But let's be clear: That decision will cause the federal government to spend billions more subsidizing insurance companies, not less.\" That is because the savings from reducing CSR payments is less than increases in the insurance premium tax credits, which rise along with sizable (20%+) premium increases for 2018 caused by Trump's threats to the CSR payments during 2017. Kliff used the CBO estimate of $194 billion in higher budget deficits from stopping CSR payments as an estimate of the net impact over a decade.\n\nJournalist David Leonhardt wrote on October 15, 2017: \"Last week, the administration took several steps to deprive people of health insurance. In doing so, it has both a short-term goal (have the federal government do less to help vulnerable citizens) and a long-term goal (sabotage Obamacare, so that Congress can more easily repeal the law)\". He continued: \"When [the executive order] takes full effect, it will most likely allow a variety of cheap insurance plans that don’t cover many treatments. These plans will siphon healthy families from the normal markets, raising prices on the sick. It will work nicely for healthy families, until it doesn’t. If they get sick and want insurance that pays for their treatments, they will be out of luck\".\n\nAccording to The Economist, Trump’s plans \"are likely to end up inflicting the most pain on self-employed, middle- to upper-income folk—in other words, on a Republican constituency\".\n\nSenator Lamar Alexander and Senator Patty Murray reached a compromise to amend the Affordable Care Act to fund cost cost-sharing reductions. President Trump had stopped paying the cost sharing subsidies and the Congressional Budget Office estimated his action would cost $200 billion, cause insurance sold on the exchange to cost 20% more and cause one million people to lose insurance. The plan will also provide more flexibility for state waivers, allow a new \"Copper Plan\" or catastrophic coverage for all, allow interstate insurance compacts, and redirect consumer fees to states for outreach.\n\nAlthough Trump initially expressed support for the compromise, he later reversed course by tweeting a dismissive tweet about it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10639502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10639502", "title": "FINEX Management Services", "text": "FINEX Management Services\n\nFINEX Management Services, Inc. is a privately held US Corporation headquartered in Tarrytown, New York. FINEX provides systems for the automation of private medical practices, including analysis of non-medical business systems; IT systems with hardware, billing, scheduling and EMR software; and human resource services including non-medical staff recruitment, training, supervision and management. The company employs more than fifty billing, bookkeeping and medical practice management specialists, and serves medical practices billing over $250 million a year throughout the Greater New York Metropolitan region.\n"}
{"id": "873037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873037", "title": "Federally Qualified Health Center", "text": "Federally Qualified Health Center\n\nA Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) is a reimbursement designation from the Bureau of Primary Health Care and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. This designation is significant for several health programs funded under the Health Center Consolidation Act (Section 330 of the Public Health Service Act).\n\nFQHC is a community-based organization that provides comprehensive primary care and preventive care, including health, oral, and mental health/substance abuse services to persons of all ages, regardless of their ability to pay or health insurance status. Thus, they are a critical component of the health care safety net. FQHCs are called Community/Migrant Health Centers (C/MHC), Community Health Centers (CHC), and 330 Funded Clinics. FQHCs are automatically designated as health professional shortage facilities.\n\nHealth programs funded include:\n\n\nFQHCs operate under a consumer Board of Directors governance structure and function under the supervision of the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), which is part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). FQHCs were originally meant to provide comprehensive health services to the medically underserved to reduce the patient load on hospital emergency rooms.\n\nTheir mission has changed since their founding. Their mission now is to enhance primary care services in underserved urban and rural communities. In particular, they serve underserved, underinsured, and uninsured Americans, including migrant workers and non-U.S. citizens.\n\nFQHCs provide their services to all persons regardless of ability to pay, and charge for services on a community board approved sliding-fee scale that is based on patients' family income and size. FQHCs must comply with Section 330 program requirements.\n\nIn return for serving all patients regardless of ability to pay, the centers receive from the Federal government cash grant, cost-based reimbursement for their Medicaid patients, and malpractice coverage under the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA).\n\nThe government also designates a category of health centers as \"FQHC Look-Alikes.\" These health centers do not receive grants under Section 330 but are determined by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to meet the requirements for receiving a grant based on the Health Resources and Services Administration recommendations. Also, FQHC Look-Alikes receive cost-based reimbursement for their Medicaid services, but do not receive malpractice coverage under FTCA or a cash grant. Look-Alikes also qualify as health professional shortage areas (HPSA) automatically.\n\nFQHC benefit under Medicare became effective October 1, 1991, when Section 1861(aa) of the Social Security Act was amended by Section 4161 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. FQHCs provide Medicare beneficiaries with preventive primary health services such as immunizations, visual acuity and hearing screenings, and prenatal and post-partum care. However, eyeglasses, hearing aids, and preventive dental services are not covered under the FQHC preventive primary services. A FQHC Prospective Payment System (PPS) was scheduled to be implemented in 2014. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) mandates that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) collect and analyze health services data prior to developing and implementing the new payment system. This requires that the appropriate revenue code and Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) code be listed with each service provided. Currently, Medicare pays FQHC directly based on an all-inclusive per visit payment.\n\nIn June 2011, the Department of Health and Human Services announced the Federally Qualified Health Center Advanced Primary Care Practice (FQHC APCP) demonstration project. This demonstration project is conducted under the authority of Section 1115A of the Social Security Act, which was added by section 3021 of the ACA and establishes the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (Innovation Center). The CMS and Innovation Center in partnership with HRSA will operate the demonstration. This initiative was designed to evaluate the impact of the advanced primary care practice (APCP) model, also referred to as the patient-centered medical home (PCMH) on improving health, quality of care and lowering the cost of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries. The ACA will pay an estimated $42 million over three years (November 1, 2011 to October 31, 2014) to 500 FQHCs to coordinate care for 195,000 Medicare patients. Participating FQHCs agree to adopt care coordination practices set by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and are expected to achieve Level 3 patient-centered medical home recognition.\n\nPresident Bush launched the Health Centers Initiative to significantly increase access to primary health care services in 1,200 communities through new or expanded health center sites. Between 2001 and 2006, the number of patients treated at health centers increased by over 4.7 million, representing a nearly 50 percent increase in just five years. In 2006 the number of patients served topped the 15 million mark for the first time.\n\nThroughout the United States there are over 1,000 health centers that operate approximately 6,000 sites. In 2010, the health centers served an estimated 20 million patients. The data collected via the Uniform Data System (UDS) reports that of those patients served, 62 percent were members of a racial or ethnic minority (predominantly Hispanic), 93 percent lived at or below 200 percent of the federal poverty level, 72 percent lived at or below 100 percent of the federal poverty level, and 38 percent were uninsured. In particular, during 2010 health centers served 862,775 migrant and seasonal farm workers and their families; more than 1 million individuals experiencing homelessness; and 172,731 residents of public housing.\n\nThe health center program's annual federal funding has grown from $1.16 billion in fiscal year 2001 to $1.99 billion in fiscal year 2007. The passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) in March 2010 resulted in provisions that increased federal funding to FQHCs to help them meet the anticipated health care demand of millions of Americans who will gain health care coverage as result of the health reform law. The ACA set aside $11 billion for community health centers over a period of five years to meet this goal.\n\n"}
{"id": "531611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531611", "title": "Foodborne illness", "text": "Foodborne illness\n\nFoodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food, as well as toxins such as poisonous mushrooms and various species of beans that have not been boiled for at least 10 minutes.\n\nSymptoms vary depending on the cause, and are described below in this article. A few broad generalizations can be made, e.g.: The incubation period ranges from hours to days, depending on the cause and on how much was consumed. The incubation period tends to cause sufferers to not associate the symptoms with the item consumed, and so to cause sufferers to attribute the symptoms to gastroenteritis for example.\n\nSymptoms often include vomiting, fever, and aches, and may include diarrhea. Bouts of vomiting can be repeated with an extended delay in between, because even if infected food was eliminated from the stomach in the first bout, microbes (if applicable) can pass through the stomach into the intestine and begin to multiply. Some types of microbes stay in the intestine, some produce a toxin that is absorbed into the bloodstream, and some can directly invade deeper body tissues.\n\nFoodborne illness usually arises from improper handling, preparation, or food storage. Good hygiene practices before, during, and after food preparation can reduce the chances of contracting an illness. There is a consensus in the public health community that regular hand-washing is one of the most effective defenses against the spread of foodborne illness. The action of monitoring food to ensure that it will not cause foodborne illness is known as food safety. Foodborne disease can also be caused by a large variety of toxins that affect the environment.\n\nFurthermore, foodborne illness can be caused by pesticides or medicines in food and natural toxic substances such as poisonous mushrooms or reef fish.\n\nBacteria are a common cause of foodborne illness. In the United Kingdom during 2000, the individual bacteria involved were the following: \"Campylobacter jejuni\" 77.3%, \"Salmonella\" 20.9%, 1.4%, and all others less than 0.56%. In the past, bacterial infections were thought to be more prevalent because few places had the capability to test for norovirus and no active surveillance was being done for this particular agent. Toxins from bacterial infections are delayed because the bacteria need time to multiply. As a result, symptoms associated with intoxication are usually not seen until 12–72 hours or more after eating contaminated food. However, in some cases, such as Staphylococcal food poisoning, the onset of illness can be as soon as 30 minutes after ingesting contaminated food.\n\nMost common bacterial foodborne pathogens are:\n\nOther common bacterial foodborne pathogens are:\n\nLess common bacterial agents:\n\nIn addition to disease caused by direct bacterial infection, some foodborne illnesses are caused by enterotoxins (exotoxins targeting the intestines). Enterotoxins can produce illness even when the microbes that produced them have been killed. Symptom appearance varies with the toxin but may be rapid in onset, as in the case of enterotoxins of \"Staphylococcus aureus\" in which symptoms appear in one to six hours. This causes intense vomiting including or not including diarrhea (resulting in staphylococcal enteritis), and staphylococcal enterotoxins (most commonly staphylococcal enterotoxin A but also including staphylococcal enterotoxin B) are the most commonly reported enterotoxins although cases of poisoning are likely underestimated. It occurs mainly in cooked and processed foods due to competition with other biota in raw foods, and humans are the main cause of contamination as a substantial percentage of humans are persistent carriers of \"S. aureus\". The CDC has estimated about 240,000 cases per year in the United States.\n\n\nThe rare but potentially deadly disease botulism occurs when the anaerobic bacterium \"Clostridium botulinum\" grows in improperly canned low-acid foods and produces botulin, a powerful paralytic toxin.\n\n\"Pseudoalteromonas tetraodonis\", certain species of Pseudomonas and Vibrio, and some other bacteria, produce the lethal tetrodotoxin, which is present in the tissues of some living animal species rather than being a product of decomposition.\n\nMany foodborne illnesses remain poorly understood.\n\n\nPrevention is mainly the role of the state, through the definition of strict rules of hygiene and a public services of veterinary surveying of animal products in the food chain, from farming to the transformation industry and delivery (shops and restaurants). This regulation includes:\n\nIn August 2006, the United States Food and Drug Administration approved Phage therapy which involves spraying meat with viruses that infect bacteria, and thus preventing infection. This has raised concerns, because without mandatory labelling consumers would not be aware that meat and poultry products have been treated with the spray.\n\nAt home, prevention mainly consists of good food safety practices. Many forms of bacterial poisoning can be prevented by cooking it sufficiently, and either eating it quickly or refrigerating it effectively. Many toxins, however, are not destroyed by heat treatment.\n\nTechniques that help prevent food borne illness in the kitchen are hand washing, rinsing produce, preventing cross-contamination, proper storage, and maintaining cooking temperatures. In general, freezing or refrigerating prevents virtually all bacteria from growing, and heating food sufficiently kills parasites, viruses, and most bacteria. Bacteria grow most rapidly at the range of temperatures between , called the \"danger zone\". Storing food below or above the \"danger zone\" can effectively limit the production of toxins. For storing leftovers, the food must be put in shallow containers\nfor quick cooling and must be refrigerated within two hours. When food is reheated, it must reach an internal temperature of or until hot or steaming to kill bacteria.\n\nThe term alimentary mycotoxicosis refers to the effect of poisoning by mycotoxins through food consumption. The term mycotoxin is usually reserved for the toxic chemical products produced by fungi that readily colonize crops. Mycotoxins sometimes have important effects on human and animal health. For example, an outbreak which occurred in the UK in 1960 caused the death of 100,000 turkeys which had consumed aflatoxin-contaminated peanut meal. In the USSR in World War II, 5,000 people died due to alimentary toxic aleukia (ALA). The common foodborne Mycotoxins include:\n\nViral infections make up perhaps one third of cases of food poisoning in developed countries. In the US, more than 50% of cases are viral and noroviruses are the most common foodborne illness, causing 57% of outbreaks in 2004. Foodborne viral infection are usually of intermediate (1–3 days) incubation period, causing illnesses which are self-limited in otherwise healthy individuals; they are similar to the bacterial forms described above.\n\nMost foodborne parasites are zoonoses.\n\n\nSeveral foods can naturally contain toxins, many of which are not produced by bacteria. Plants in particular may be toxic; animals which are naturally poisonous to eat are rare. In evolutionary terms, animals can escape being eaten by fleeing; plants can use only passive defenses such as poisons and distasteful substances, for example capsaicin in chili peppers and pungent sulfur compounds in garlic and onions. Most animal poisons are not synthesised by the animal, but acquired by eating poisonous plants to which the animal is immune, or by bacterial action.\n\nSome plants contain substances which are toxic in large doses, but have therapeutic properties in appropriate dosages.\n\n\nIn 1883, the Italian, Professor Salmi, of Bologna, introduced the generic name \"\" (from Greek \"ptōma\", \"fall, fallen body, corpse\") for alkaloids found in decaying animal and vegetable matter, especially (as reflected in their names) putrescine and cadaverine. The 1892 \"Merck's Bulletin\" stated, \"We name such products of bacterial origin ptomaines; and the special alkaloid produced by the comma bacillus is variously named Cadaverine, Putrescine, etc.\" While \"The Lancet\" stated, \"The chemical ferments produced in the system, the... ptomaines which may exercise so disastrous an influence.\" It is now known that the \"disastrous... influence\" is due to the direct action of bacteria and only slightly to the alkaloids. Thus, the use of the phrase \"ptomaine poisoning\" is now obsolete.\n\nTainted potato salad sickening hundreds at a Communist political convention in Massillon, Ohio, and aboard a Washington DC cruise boat in separate incidents during a single week in 1932 drew national attention to the dangers of so-called \"ptomaine poisoning\" in the pages of the American news weekly, \"Time.\"\nAnother newspaper article from 1944 told of more than 150 persons being hospitalized in Chicago with ptomaine poisoning apparently from rice pudding served by a chain of restaurants.\n\nThe delay between the consumption of contaminated food and the appearance of the first symptoms of illness is called the incubation period. This ranges from hours to days (and rarely months or even years, such as in the case of listeriosis or bovine spongiform encephalopathy), depending on the agent, and on how much was consumed. If symptoms occur within one to six hours after eating the food, it suggests that it is caused by a bacterial toxin or a chemical rather than live bacteria.\n\nThe long incubation period of many foodborne illnesses tends to cause sufferers to attribute their symptoms to gastroenteritis.\n\nDuring the incubation period, microbes pass through the stomach into the intestine, attach to the cells lining the intestinal walls, and begin to multiply there. Some types of microbes stay in the intestine, some produce a toxin that is absorbed into the bloodstream, and some can directly invade the deeper body tissues. The symptoms produced depend on the type of microbe.\n\nThe infectious dose is the amount of agent that must be consumed to give rise to symptoms of foodborne illness, and varies according to the agent and the consumer's age and overall health. Pathogens vary in minimum infectious dose; for example, \"Shigella sonnei\" has a low estimated minimum dose of < 500 colony-forming units (CFU) while \"Staphylococcus aureus\" has a relatively high estimate.\n\nIn the case of \"Salmonella\" a relatively large inoculum of 1 million to 1 billion organisms is necessary to produce symptoms in healthy human volunteers, as \"Salmonellae\" are very sensitive to acid. An unusually high stomach pH level (low acidity) greatly reduces the number of bacteria required to cause symptoms by a factor of between 10 and 100.\n\nAsymptomatic subclinical infection may help spread these diseases, particularly \"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, V. cholerae,\" and \"Yersinia\". For example, as of 1984 it was estimated that in the United States, 200,000 people were asymptomatic carriers of \"Salmonella\".\n\nGlobally, infants are a population that are especially vulnerable to foodborne disease. The World Health Organization has issued recommendations for the preparation, use and storage of prepared formulas. Breastfeeding remains the best preventative measure for protection of foodborne infections in infants.\n\nIn the United States, using FoodNet data from 2000–2007, the CDCP estimated there were 47.8 million foodborne illnesses per year (16,000 cases for 100,000 inhabitants) with 9.4 million of these caused by 31 known identified pathogens.\n\nThis data pertains to reported medical cases of 23 specific pathogens, as opposed to total population estimates of all food-borne illness for the United States.\n\nIn France, for 750,000 cases (1210 per 100,000 inhabitants):\n\nA study by the Australian National University, published in November 2014, found in 2010 that there were an estimated 4.1 million cases of foodborne gastroenteritis acquired in Australia on average each year, along with 5,140 cases of non-gastrointestinal illness. The study was funded by the Australian Department of Health, Food Standards Australia New Zealand and the NSW Food Authority.\n\nThe main causes were Norovirus, pathogenic Escherichia coli, Campylobacter spp. and non-typhoidal Salmonella spp., although the causes of approximately 80% of illnesses were unknown. Approximately 25% (90% CrI: 13%–42%) of the 15.9 million episodes of gastroenteritis that occur in Australia were estimated to be transmitted by contaminated food. This equates to an average of approximately one episode of foodborne gastroenteritis every five years per person. Data on the number of hospitalisations and deaths represent the occurrence of serious foodborne illness. Including gastroenteritis, non-gastroenteritis and sequelae, there were an estimated annual 31,920 (90% CrI: 29,500–35,500) hospitalisations due to foodborne illness and 86 (90% CrI: 70–105) deaths due to foodborne illness circa 2010. This study concludes that these rates are similar to recent estimates in the US and Canada.\n\nA main aim of this study was to compare if foodborne illness incidence had increased over time. In this study, similar methods of assessment were applied to data from circa 2000, which showed that the rate of foodborne gastroenteritis had not changed significantly over time. Two key estimates were the total number of gastroenteritis episodes each year, and the proportion considered foodborne. In circa 2010, it was estimated that 25% of all episodes of gastroenteritis were foodborne. By applying this proportion of episodes due to food to the incidence of gastroenteritis circa 2000, there were an estimated 4.3 million (90% CrI: 2.2–7.3 million) episodes of foodborne gastroenteritis circa 2000, although credible intervals overlap with 2010. Taking into account changes in population size, applying these equivalent methods suggests a 17% decrease in the rate of foodborne gastroenteritis between 2000 and 2010, with considerable overlap of the 90% credible intervals.\n\nThis study replaces a previous estimate of 5.4 million cases of food-borne illness in Australia every year, causing:\n\nMost foodborne disease outbreaks in Australia have been linked to raw or minimally cooked eggs or poultry. The Australian Food Safety Information Council estimates that one third of cases of food poisoning occur in the home\n\nThe vast majority of reported cases of foodborne illness occur as individual or sporadic cases. The origin of most sporadic cases is undetermined. In the United States, where people eat outside the home frequently, 58% of cases originate from commercial food facilities (2004 FoodNet data). An outbreak is defined as occurring when two or more people experience similar illness after consuming food from a common source.\n\nOften, a combination of events contributes to an outbreak, for example, food might be left at room temperature for many hours, allowing bacteria to multiply which is compounded by inadequate cooking which results in a failure to kill the dangerously elevated bacterial levels.\n\nOutbreaks are usually identified when those affected know each other. However, more and more, outbreaks are identified by public health staff from unexpected increases in laboratory results for certain strains of bacteria. Outbreak detection and investigation in the United States is primarily handled by local health jurisdictions and is inconsistent from district to district. It is estimated that 1–2% of outbreaks are detected.\n\nIn postwar Aberdeen (1964) a large-scale (>400 cases) outbreak of typhoid occurred, caused by contaminated corned beef which had been imported from Argentina. The corned beef was placed in cans and because the cooling plant had failed, cold river water from the Plate estuary was used to cool the cans. One of the cans had a defect and the meat inside was contaminated. This meat was then sliced using a meat slicer in a shop in Aberdeen, and a lack of cleaning the machinery led to spreading the contamination to other meats cut in the slicer. These meats were then eaten by the people of Aberdeen who then became ill.\n\nSerious outbreaks of foodborne illness since the 1970s prompted key changes in UK food safety law. These included the death of 19 patients in the Stanley Royd Hospital outbreak and the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE, mad cow disease) outbreak identified in the 1980s. The death of 21 people in the 1996 Wishaw outbreak of \"E. coli\" O157 was a precursor to the establishment of the Food Standards Agency which, according to Tony Blair in the 1998 white paper \"A Force for Change\" Cm 3830, \"would be powerful, open and dedicated to the interests of consumers\".\n\nIn May 2015, for the second year running, England’s Food Standards Agency devoted its annual Food Safety Week to – “The Chicken Challenge”. The focus was on the handling of raw chicken in the home and in catering facilities in a drive to reduce the worryingly high levels of food poisoning from the \"campylobacter\" bacterium. Anne Hardy argues that widespread public education of food hygiene can be useful, particularly through media (T.V cookery programmes) and advertisement. She points to the examples set by Scandinavian societies.\n\nIn 2001, the Center for Science in the Public Interest petitioned the United States Department of Agriculture to require meat packers to remove spinal cords before processing cattle carcasses for human consumption, a measure designed to lessen the risk of infection by variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease. The petition was supported by the American Public Health Association, the Consumer Federation of America, the Government Accountability Project, the National Consumers League, and Safe Tables Our Priority. This was opposed by the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, the National Renderers Association, the National Meat Association, the Pork Producers Council, sheep raisers, milk producers, the Turkey Federation, and eight other organizations from the animal-derived food industry.\n\nNone of the US Department of Health and Human Services targets regarding incidence of foodborne infections were reached in 2007.\n\nA report issued in June 2018 by NBC's Minneapolis station using research by both the CDC and the Minnesota Department of Health concluded that foodborne illness is on the rise in the U.S. The CDC has reported approximately four thousand cases of food poisoning annually in the last few years. Experts cite increased handling of food by humans as a major contributor, leading to outbreaks of parasites such as \"E. coli\" and cyclospora which can only come from human fecal matter.\n\nThe World Health Organization Department of Food Safety and Zoonoses (FOS) provides scientific advice for organizations and the public on issues concerning the safety of food. Its mission is to lower the burden of foodborne disease, thereby strengthening the health security and sustainable development of Member States. Foodborne and waterborne diarrhoeal diseases kill an estimated 2.2 million people annually, most of whom are children. WHO works closely with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) to address food safety issues along the entire food production chain—from production to consumption—using new methods of risk analysis. These methods provide efficient, science-based tools to improve food safety, thereby benefiting both public health and economic development.\n\nThe International Food Safety Authorities Network (INFOSAN) is a joint program of the WHO and FAO. INFOSAN has been connecting national authorities from around the globe since 2004, with the goal of preventing the international spread of contaminated food and foodborne disease and strengthening food safety systems globally. This is done by:\n\n\nMembership to INFOSAN is voluntary, but is restricted to representatives from national and regional government authorities and requires an official letter of designation. INFOSAN seeks to reflect the multidisciplinary nature of food safety and promote intersectoral collaboration by requesting the designation of Focal Points in each of the respective national authorities with a stake in food safety, and a single Emergency Contact Point in the national authority with the responsibility for coordinating national food safety emergencies; countries choosing to be members of INFOSAN are committed to sharing information between their respective food safety authorities and other INFOSAN members. The operational definition of a food safety authority includes those authorities involved in: food policy; risk assessment; food control and management; food inspection services; foodborne disease surveillance and response; laboratory services for monitoring and surveillance of foods and foodborne diseases; and food safety information, education and communication across the farm-to-table continuum.\n\nFood and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and The World Health Organization published have made a global ranking of food-borne parasites using a multicriteria ranking tool concluding that \"Taenia solium\" was the most relevant, followed by \"Echinococcus granulosus\", \"Echinococcus multilocularis\", and \"Toxoplasma gondii\". The same method was used regionally to rank the most important food-borne parasites in Europe ranking \"Echinococcus multilocularis\" of highest relevance, followed by \"Toxoplasma gondii\" and \"Trichinella spiralis\".\n\nFood may be contaminated during all stages of food production and retailing. In order to prevent viral contamination, regulatory authorities in Europe have enacted several measures:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20130586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20130586", "title": "Grim Reaper (advertisement)", "text": "Grim Reaper (advertisement)\n\nThe Grim Reaper commercial is a 1987 Australian television commercial aimed at raising public awareness on the dangers of AIDS. Created as part of a $3 million education campaign by the National Advisory Committee on AIDS (NACAIDS), the advertisement depicted the Grim Reaper bowling in a bowling alley and knocking over men, women, and child \"pins\" which represented AIDS victims. The commercial first screened on 5 April 1987 and was highly controversial, one reason being that the Grim Reaper became identified with gay men. Nevertheless, the commercial was regarded as highly successful in educating the Australian public about the issue. The commercial was created by Siimon Reynolds and spoken by voice-over artist John Stanton.\n\nSiimon Reynolds on the idea of the commercial:\n\n...bowling was in my head. I was bowling every week. And I used to love the animation at Christmas with... for Scrooge, where the Grim Reaper came and visited Scrooge. And I thought, \"Well, maybe the Grim Reaper could machine-gun them.\" Then I thought, no, that'll be a five-second ad and it'll be too short. What's another way he could kill them? He could bowl balls at them. And those two things came together.\n\nOf course, back then, the data was unclear. In some countries - for instance, Italy - almost as many women who had AIDS as men. I think there was also a bit of a political fear that there'll be a backlash against gays if everybody thinks it's some kind of gay plague. But, you know, other countries had failed in their AIDS education because heterosexuals weren't listening. We really had to wake people up. There was a lot of information about how to stop AIDS out there, but no-one was reading it. \nThe commercial became controversial for offending some members of the gay community. Australian AIDS pioneer Ron Penny regretted the fact this occurred:\n\nThe downside was that the Grim Reaper became identified with gay men rather than as the Reaper. That was what we had unintentionally produced - [the belief] by some that the Reaper was people with HIV infection, rather than the Reaper harvesting the dead.\n\nI think there's never been anything on television or any media that has ever matched it in terms of impact, but no advertising can be without some downside, and that was never intended. But it at least made people aware and probably did change sexual practices of heterosexuals.\n"}
{"id": "49157804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49157804", "title": "Health in Tonga", "text": "Health in Tonga\n\nLife expectancy in Tonga, which was once in the mid-70s, has fallen to 64. Up to 40% of the population is said to have type 2 diabetes.\n\nThe people of Tonga are the most obese in the world, with 52.4% of men and 67.2% of women diagnosed as obese. This is thought to be as a result of dietary changes. The consumption of imported meat, particularly mutton flaps, has replaced the islanders' traditional diet of fish, root vegetables and coconuts.\n\nTāufaʻāhau Tupou IV, who died in 2006, holds the Guinness World Record for being the heaviest-ever monarch - 200kg.\n\n"}
{"id": "7856554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7856554", "title": "Ikatan Naturopatis Indonesia", "text": "Ikatan Naturopatis Indonesia\n\nIkatan Naturopatis Indonesia (Indonesian Naturopath Association, or I.N.I.) is the national organisation for traditional Chinese medicine practitioners (known as \"sin she\") in Indonesia. Address: Jln Hayam Wuruk no: 114.\n\nLike modern medical organisations, the I.N.I. maintains a code of ethics for its members, and represents the interests of the traditional Chinese medical profession when dealing with the Indonesian government. It also promotes knowledge about Chinese medicine, not only within the Indonesian Chinese community, but also amongst the Indonesian population in general.\n\nThe I.N.I. is notable for launching a legal action in the Indonesian High Court (Makhamah agung), and for lobbying the Indonesian Attorney General (Jaksa agung), securing an exemption from a law banning the use of Chinese language in Indonesia, allowing traditional Chinese herbalists to write prescriptions in the Chinese language, with a promise that the I.N.I. does not intend to rebel or overthrow the Indonesian government.\n\nChinese Indonesian\n"}
{"id": "31827286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31827286", "title": "International Association for Dance Medicine &amp; Science", "text": "International Association for Dance Medicine &amp; Science\n\nThe International Association for Dance Medicine & Science (IADMS) was formed in 1990 with the goal summarized in its mission statement:\n\nIADMS enhances the health, well-being, training, and performance of dancers by cultivating educational, medical, and scientific excellence.\nAs at 2016, the association had a membership of over 900 in 35 countries.\n\nSince its inception, the association has held an annual meeting (scientific conference) at venues around the world. These conferences, currently four days in length, are multidisciplinary, with lectures, symposia, and forums on dance medicine, dance science, and dance education, as well as movement sessions. The conferences are attended by physicians, physical therapists, allied health professionals, alternative healthcare practitioners, psychologists, arts administrators, artistic directors, choreographers, dance educators, dance scientists, movement specialists, and dancers. Continuing education credits for healthcare professionals are provided.\n\nThe association publishes a quarterly peer-reviewed scientific journal, \"Journal of Dance Medicine & Science\" (by subscription, print and online) which is indexed in MEDLINE and \"The IADMS Bulletin for Teachers\" (free, online only).\n\nResource papers on numerous topics and in several languages, written by medical, scientific, and dance professionals, are available for free download on the association's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "4733847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733847", "title": "International Federation of Associations of Anatomists", "text": "International Federation of Associations of Anatomists\n\nThe International Federation of Associations of Anatomists (IFAA) is an umbrella scientific organization of national and multinational Anatomy Associations, dedicated to anatomy and biomorphological sciences.\n\nIn 1903, Prof. Nicolas, from Nancy, France, was successful in founding the International Federation of Associations of Anatomists.\n\nThe first International Congress of Anatomy was held in Geneva in 1905 and started as a committee to organize five yearly conferences.\n\n56 member Associations of the International Federation of Associations of Anatomists. The IFAA is the only international body representing all aspects of anatomy and anatomical associations.\n\nSince 1989 the Federative International Committee on Anatomical Terminology (FICAT) under IFAA auspices, has met to analyze and study the international morphological terminology (Anatomy, Histology and Embryology), releasing updated \"Terminologia Anatomica\" in 1998 and \"Terminologia Histologica\" in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53675175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53675175", "title": "Jacques Katmor", "text": "Jacques Katmor\n\nJacques Mory-Katmor () (born 4 September 1938 in Cairo, Cairo Governorate, Egypt as Jacques Mory; died 6 September 2001 at the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center in Tel Aviv, Tel Aviv District, Israel) was an Israeli bohemian/counterculture experimental filmmaker, painter, and, multimedia artist, of anarchical, underground, and, independent leanings.\n\nBorn into a wealthy, Jewish, family in Cairo, his father was a realtor and tile factory owner, he was, nonetheless, educated in a Jesuit school, and, upon turning 18, travelled to Paris and Switzerland, in order to study art at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts, eventually, in 1960, immigrating to Israel, where, after serving in the Artillery Corps, taking part in the Six-Day War, during the 1960s and 1970s, he gathered, around himself, a group of artists and intellectuals, calling itself \"The Third Eye,\" a commune, dedicated to lysergic acid diethylamide and cannabis, the ideas of Timothy Leary, and, bands such as Pink Floyd, The Moody Blues, and, Grateful Dead, which, included, amongst others, filmmakers and artists such as , , Amnon Salomon, , , and, . He considered himself to be strongly influenced by Friedrich Nietzsche and the Marquis de Sade, as well as, by surrealism's artists such as André Masson and Hans Bellmer, Dada, the Situationist International's artists such as Guy Debord, the Beat Generation, Bernard Malamud, the band Faust, and, lettrism, and, eventually, changed his last name, on Avoth Yeshurun's suggestion, into a phonetic rendering of \"quatre mortes\", French for \"four deaths.\" His apartment, located at Dizengoff Street 40 in Tel Aviv, where, eventually, his only film was shot, was a cornerstone of city life, during that time. He married translator, model, and, editor , daughter of poet Avoth Yeshurun, while, working on his highly avant-garde 1969 film \"A Woman's Case\", in which, she starred, a time, during which, he met, and, casted into his film, model and it girl Ann Tochmeyer, most famous, during that period, for, appearing on the covers of magazines such as \"HaOlam HaZeh\", which, he married, after divorcing his wife, after he finished the shooting. The film was a commercial failure, and, hindered his ability to pursue his career as a filmmaker. Other works included creating television programs showcasing the works of artists such as Moshe Gershuni, Yosl Bergner (1971), Yaacov Agam (1973), and, Michail Grobman (1974). Some years later, around 1974, he left Israel for Cambodia, Canada, and, Thailand, with Tochmeyer leaving for San Francisco, and, finally, later, around 1975, for Amsterdam, together with Tochmeyer, returning in 1991. Reportedly, while abroad, they both became addicted to cocaine and heroin, while, squatting in abject poverty, forcing him to work in pornography, and, Tochmeyer, to work as a stripper, while, essentially, living in a sort of open relationship, together with artist . Officially, the cause of his death was listed as alcoholism-related.\n\nThe Horse Hospital held a retrospective in his honor between 12 October and 9 November 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "711196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711196", "title": "List of hospitals in Israel", "text": "List of hospitals in Israel\n\nThis is a list of hospitals in Israel by district and city.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGeneral hospitals:\n\nSpecialised hospitals and research facilities:\n\n\nGeneral hospitals:\n\nSpecialised hospitals:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54197982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54197982", "title": "List of investigational sexual dysfunction drugs", "text": "List of investigational sexual dysfunction drugs\n\nThis is a list of investigational sexual dysfunction drugs, or drugs that are currently under development for clinical treatment of sexual dysfunction but are not yet approved. \"Chemical/generic names are listed first, with developmental code names, synonyms, and brand names in parentheses.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55269610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55269610", "title": "List of people who died on the toilet", "text": "List of people who died on the toilet\n\nList of people who died on the toilet where individuals have died while using a toilet facility or in the process of defecation or urination. This includes all confirmed historical figures and more modern recent notable cases of deaths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19723", "title": "MUMPS", "text": "MUMPS\n\nMUMPS (\"Massachusetts General Hospital Utility Multi-Programming System\"), or M, is a general-purpose computer programming language originally designed in 1966 for the healthcare industry. Its differentiating feature is its \"built-in\" database, enabling high-level access to disk storage using simple symbolic program variables and subscripted arrays; similar to the variables used by most languages to access main memory.\n\nIt continues to be used today by many large hospitals and banks to provide high-throughput transaction data processing.\n\nMUMPS was developed by Neil Pappalardo, Robert Greenes, and Curt Marble in Dr. Octo Barnett's animal lab at the Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) in Boston during 1966 and 1967.\n\nThe original MUMPS system was, like Unix a few years later, built on a spare DEC PDP-7. Octo Barnett and Neil Pappalardo were also involved with MGH's planning for a Hospital Information System, obtained a backward compatible PDP-9, and began using MUMPS in the admissions cycle and laboratory test reporting. MUMPS was then an interpreted language, yet even then, incorporated a hierarchical database file system to standardize interaction with the data.\n\nSome aspects of MUMPS can be traced from Rand Corporation's JOSS through BBN's TELCOMP and STRINGCOMP. The MUMPS team deliberately chose to include portability between machines as a design goal. Another feature, not widely supported for machines of the era, in operating systems or in computer hardware, was multitasking, which was also built into the language itself.\n\nThe portability was soon useful, as MUMPS was shortly adapted to a DEC PDP-15, where it lived for some time. MUMPS was developed with the support of a government research grant, and so MUMPS was released to the public domain (no longer a requirement for grants), and was soon ported to a number of other systems including the popular DEC PDP-8, the Data General Nova and the DEC PDP-11 and the Artronix PC12 minicomputer. Word about MUMPS spread mostly through the medical community, and by the early 1970s was in widespread use, often being locally modified for their own needs.\n\nBy the early 1970s, there were many and varied implementations of MUMPS on a range of hardware platforms. The most widespread was DEC's MUMPS-11 on the PDP-11, and MEDITECH's MIIS. In 1972, many MUMPS users attended a conference which standardized the then-fractured language, and created the MUMPS Users Group and MUMPS Development Committee (MDC) to do so. These efforts proved successful; a standard was complete by 1974, and was approved, on September 15, 1977, as ANSI standard, X11.1-1977. At about the same time DEC launched DSM-11 (Digital Standard MUMPS) for the PDP-11. This quickly dominated the market, and became the reference implementation of the time. Also, InterSystems sold ISM-11 for the PDP-11 (which was identical to DSM-11).\n\nDuring the early 1980s several vendors brought MUMPS-based platforms that met the ANSI standard to market. The most significant were:\n\nOther companies developed important MUMPS implementations:\n\nThis period also saw considerable MDC activity. The second revision of the ANSI standard for MUMPS (X11.1-1984) was approved on November 15, 1984.\n\n\n\nThe US Department of Veterans Affairs (formerly the Veterans Administration) was one of the earliest major adopters of the MUMPS language. Their development work (and subsequent contributions to the free MUMPS application codebase) was an influence on many medical users worldwide. In 1995, the Veterans Affairs' patient Admission/Tracking/Discharge system, Decentralized Hospital Computer Program (DHCP) was the recipient of the Computerworld Smithsonian Award for best use of Information Technology in Medicine. In July 2006, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) / Veterans Health Administration (VHA) was the recipient of the Innovations in American Government Award presented by the Ash Institute of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University for its extension of DHCP into the Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA). Nearly the entire VA hospital system in the United States, the Indian Health Service, and major parts of the Department of Defense CHCS hospital system use MUMPS databases for clinical data tracking. In 2015 the Department of Defense awarded a 10 year contract to Leidos, Cerner, and Accenture to replace CHCS. In 2017 the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) announced that it would replace VistA with Cerner by 2024 or 2025. That contract did not affect the 2015 VHA contract for an online appointment scheduling from Epic, so the VHA will continue to use MUMPS. \n\nOther healthcare IT companies using MUMPS include Epic, MEDITECH, GE Healthcare (formerly IDX Systems and Centricity), AmeriPath (part of Quest Diagnostics), Care Centric, Allscripts, Coventry Healthcare, EMIS, and Sunquest Information Systems (formerly Misys Healthcare). Many reference laboratories, such as DASA, Quest Diagnostics, and Dynacare, use MUMPS software written by or based on Antrim Corporation code. Antrim was purchased by Misys Healthcare (now Sunquest Information Systems) in 2001.\n\nMUMPS is also widely used in financial applications. MUMPS gained an early following in the financial sector and is in use at many banks and credit unions. It is used by Ameritrade, the largest online trading service in the US, with over 12 billion transactions per day, as well as by the Bank of England and Barclays Bank, among others.\n\nSince 2005, the use of MUMPS has been either in the form of GT.M or InterSystems Caché. The latter is being aggressively marketed by InterSystems and has had success in penetrating new markets, such as telecommunications, in addition to existing markets. The European Space Agency announced on May 13, 2010 that it will use the InterSystems Caché database to support the Gaia mission. This mission aims to map the Milky Way with unprecedented precision.\n\nMUMPS is a language intended for and designed to build database applications. Secondary language features were included to help programmers make applications using minimal computing resources. The original implementations were interpreted, though modern implementations may be fully or partially compiled. Individual \"programs\" run in memory \"partitions\". Early MUMPS memory partitions were limited to 2048 bytes so aggressive abbreviation greatly aided multi-programming on severely resource limited hardware, because more than one MUMPS job could fit into the very small memories extant in hardware at the time. The ability to provide multi-user systems was another language design feature. The word \"Multi-Programming\" in the acronym points to this. Even the earliest machines running MUMPS supported multiple jobs running at the same time. With the change from mini-computers to micro-computers a\nfew years later, even a \"single user PC\" with a single 8-bit CPU and 16K or 64K of memory could support multiple users, who could connect to it from (non-graphical) video display terminals.\n\nSince memory was tight originally, the language design for MUMPS valued very terse code. Thus, every MUMPS command or function name could be abbreviated from one to three letters in length, e.g. Quit (exit program) as Q, $P = $Piece function, R = Read command, $TR = $Translate function. Spaces and end-of-line markers are significant in MUMPS because line scope promoted the same terse language design. Thus, a single line of program code could express, with few characters, an idea for which other programming languages could require 5 to 10 times as many characters. Abbreviation was a common feature of languages designed in this period (e.g., FOCAL-69, early BASICs such as Tiny BASIC, etc.). An unfortunate side effect of this, coupled with the early need to write minimalist code, was that MUMPS programmers routinely did not comment code and used extensive abbreviations. This meant that even an expert MUMPS programmer could not just skim through a page of code to see its function but would have to\nanalyze it line by line.\n\nDatabase interaction is transparently built into the language. The MUMPS language provides a hierarchical database made up of persistent sparse arrays, which is implicitly \"opened\" for every MUMPS application. All variable names prefixed with the caret character (\"^\") use permanent (instead of RAM) storage, will maintain their values after the application exits, and will be visible to (and modifiable by) other running applications. Variables using this shared and permanent storage are called \"Globals\" in MUMPS, because the scoping of these variables is \"globally available\" to all jobs on the system. The more recent and more common use of the name \"global variables\" in other languages is a more limited scoping of names, coming from the fact that unscoped variables are \"globally\" available to any programs running in the same process, but not shared among multiple processes. The MUMPS Storage mode (i.e. Globals\nstored as persistent sparse arrays), gives the MUMPS database the characteristics of a document-oriented database.\n\nAll variable names which are not prefixed with caret character (\"^\") are temporary and private. Like global variables, they also have a hierarchical storage model, but are only \"locally available\" to a single job, thus they are called \"locals\". Both \"globals\" and \"locals\" can have child nodes (called \"subscripts\" in MUMPS terminology). Subscripts are not limited to numerals—any ASCII character or group of characters can be a subscript identifier. While this is not uncommon for modern languages such as Perl or JavaScript, it was a highly unusual feature in the late 1970s. This capability was not universally implemented in MUMPS systems before the 1984 ANSI standard, as only canonically numeric subscripts were required by the standard to be allowed. Thus, the variable named 'Car' can have\nsubscripts \"Door\", \"Steering Wheel\" and \"Engine\", each of which can contain a value and have subscripts of their own. The variable ^Car(\"Door\") could have a nested variable subscript of \"Color\" for example. Thus, you could say\n\nto modify a nested child node of ^Car. In MUMPS terms, \"Color\" is the 2nd subscript of the variable ^Car (both the names of the child-nodes and the child-nodes themselves are likewise called subscripts). Hierarchical variables are similar to objects with properties in many object oriented languages. Additionally, the MUMPS language design requires that all subscripts of variables are automatically kept in sorted order. Numeric subscripts (including floating-point numbers) are stored from lowest to highest. All non-numeric subscripts are stored in alphabetical order following the numbers. In MUMPS terminology, this is \"canonical order\". By using only non-negative integer subscripts, the MUMPS programmer can emulate the arrays data type from other languages. Although MUMPS does not natively offer a full set of DBMS features such as mandatory schemas, several DBMS systems have been built on top of it that provide\napplication developers with flat-file, relational and network database features.\n\nAdditionally, there are built-in operators which treat a delimited string (e.g., comma-separated values) as an array. Early MUMPS programmers would often store a structure of related information as a delimited string, parsing it after it was read in; this saved disk access time and offered considerable speed advantages on some hardware.\n\nMUMPS has no data types. Numbers can be treated as strings of digits, or strings can be treated as numbers by numeric operators (\"coerced\", in MUMPS terminology). Coercion can have some odd side effects, however. For example, when a string is coerced, the parser turns as much of the string (starting from the left) into a number as it can, then discards the rest. Thus the statement codice_1 is evaluated as codice_2 in MUMPS.\n\nOther features of the language are intended to help MUMPS applications interact with each other in a multi-user environment. Database locks, process identifiers, and atomicity of database update transactions are all required of standard MUMPS implementations.\n\nIn contrast to languages in the C or Wirth traditions, some space characters between MUMPS statements are significant. A single space separates a command from its argument, and a space, or newline, separates each argument from the next MUMPS token. Commands which take no arguments (e.g., codice_3) require two following spaces. The concept is that one space separates the command from the (nonexistent) argument, the next separates the \"argument\" from the next command. Newlines are also significant; an codice_4, codice_3 or codice_6 command processes (or skips) everything else till the end-of-line. To make those statements control multiple lines, you must use the codice_7 command to create a code block.\n\nA simple Hello world program in MUMPS might be:\n\nand would be run from the MUMPS command line with the command codice_8. Since MUMPS allows commands to be strung together on the same line, and since commands can be abbreviated to a single letter, this routine could be made more compact:\n\nThe 'codice_9' after the text generates a newline.\n\nANSI X11.1-1995 gives a complete, formal description of the language; an annotated version of this standard is available online.\n\nData types: There is one universal datatype, which is implicitly coerced to string, integer, or floating-point datatypes as context requires.\n\nBooleans (called \"truthvalues\" in MUMPS): In IF commands and other syntax that has expressions evaluated as conditions, any string value is evaluated as a numeric value, and if that is a nonzero value, then it is interpreted as True. codice_10 yields 1 if a is less than b, 0 otherwise.\n\nDeclarations: None. All variables are dynamically created at the first time a value is assigned.\n\nLines: are important syntactic entities, unlike their status in languages patterned on C or Pascal. Multiple statements per line are allowed and are common. The scope of any IF, ELSE, and FOR command is \"the remainder of current line.\"\n\nCase sensitivity: Commands and intrinsic functions are case-insensitive. In contrast, variable names and labels are case-sensitive. There is no special meaning for upper vs. lower-case and few widely followed conventions. The percent sign (%) is legal as first character of variables and labels.\n\nPostconditionals: execution of almost any command can be controlled by following it with a colon and a truthvalue expression. codice_11 sets A to \"FOO\" if N is less than 10; codice_12 performs PRINTERR if N is greater than 100. This construct provides a conditional whose scope is less than a full line.\n\nAbbreviation: You can abbreviate nearly all commands and native functions to one, two, or three characters.\n\nReserved words: None. Since MUMPS interprets source code by context, there is no need for reserved words. You may use the names of language commands as variables. There has been no contest such as the International Obfuscated C Code Contest for MUMPS, despite the potential of examples such as the following, perfectly legal, MUMPS code:\n\nMUMPS can be made more obfuscated by using the contracted operator syntax, as shown in this terse example derived from the example above:\n\nArrays: are created dynamically, stored as B-trees, are sparse (i.e. use almost no space for missing nodes), can use any number of subscripts, and subscripts can be strings or numeric (including floating point). Arrays are always automatically stored in sorted order, so there is never any occasion to sort, pack, reorder, or otherwise reorganize the database. Built in functions such as $DATA, $ORDER, $NEXT(deprecated) and $QUERY functions provide efficient examination and traversal of the fundamental array structure, on disk or in memory.\n\nLocal arrays: variable names not beginning with caret (i.e. \"^\") are stored in memory by process, are private to the creating process, and expire when the creating process terminates. The available storage depends on implementation. For those implementations using partitions, it is limited to the partition size, (A small partition might be 32K). For other implementations, it may be several megabytes.\n\nGlobal arrays: codice_13. These are stored on disk, are available to all processes, and are persistent when the creating process terminates. Very large globals (for example, hundreds of gigabytes) are practical and efficient in most implementations. This is MUMPS' main \"database\" mechanism. It is used instead of calling on the operating system to create, write, and read files.\n\nIndirection: in many contexts, codice_14 can be used, and effectively substitutes the contents of VBL into another MUMPS statement. codice_15 sets the variable ABC to 123. codice_16 performs the subroutine named REPORT. This substitution allows for lazy evaluation and late binding as well as effectively the operational equivalent of \"pointers\" in other languages.\n\nPiece function: This breaks variables into segmented pieces guided by a user specified separator string (sometimes called a \"delimiter\"). Those who know awk will find this familiar. codice_17 means the \"third caret-separated piece of STRINGVAR.\" The piece function can also appear as an assignment (SET command) target.\n\ncodice_18 yields \"std\".\n\nAfter\ncodice_19 causes X to become \"office@world.std.com\" (note that $P is equivalent to $PIECE and could be written as such).\n\nOrder function: This function treats its input as a structure, and finds the next index that exists which has the same structure except for the last subscript. It returns the sorted value that is ordered after the one given as input. (This treats the array reference as a content-addressable data rather than an address of a value)\n\ncodice_20 yields 6, codice_21 yields 10, codice_22 yields 10, codice_23 yields 15, codice_24 yields \"\".\n\nHere, the argument-less \"For\" repeats until stopped by a terminating \"Quit\". This line prints a table of i and stuff(i) where i is successively 6, 10, and 15.\n\nFor iterating the database, the Order function returns the next key to use.\n\nMulti-User/Multi-Tasking/Multi-Processor: MUMPS supports multiple simultaneous users and processes even when the underlying operating system does not (e.g., MS-DOS). Additionally, there is the ability to specify an environment for a variable, such as by specifying a machine name in a variable (as in codice_25), which can allow you to access data on remote machines.\n\nSome aspects of MUMPS syntax differ strongly from that of more modern languages, which can cause confusion. Whitespace is not allowed within expressions, as it ends a statement: codice_26 is an error, and must be written codice_27. All operators have the same precedence and are left-associative (codice_28 evaluates to 50). The operators for \"less than or equal to\" and \"greater than or equal to\" are codice_29 and codice_30 (that is, the boolean negation operator codice_31 plus a strict comparison operator).\n\nMUMPS lacks a while statement; a GOTO statement can be used to simulate one. By default, the IF, ELSE, and FOR statements use the rest of the line as their block. The DO statement allows one of them to span multiple lines; periods (codice_32) are used to indent the lines in a DO block. The ELSE statement does not need a corresponding IF, as it operates by inspecting the value in the builtin system variable codice_33.\n\nMUMPS scoping rules are more permissive than other modern languages. Declared local variables are scoped using the stack. A routine can normally see all declared locals of the routines below it on the call stack, and routines cannot prevent routines they call from modifying their declared locals. By contrast, undeclared variables (variables created by using them, rather than declaration) are in scope for all routines running in the same process, and remain in scope until the program exits.\n\nAll of the following positions can be, and have been, supported by knowledgeable people at various times:\n\nSome of the contention arose in response to strong M advocacy on the part of one commercial interest, InterSystems, whose chief executive disliked the name MUMPS and felt that it represented a serious marketing obstacle. Thus, favoring M to some extent became identified as alignment with InterSystems. The dispute also reflected rivalry between organizations (the M Technology Association, the MUMPS Development Committee, the ANSI and ISO Standards Committees) as to who determines the \"official\" name of the language. Some writers have attempted to defuse the issue by referring to the language as \"M[UMPS]\", square brackets being the customary notation for optional syntax elements. A leading authority, and the author of an open source MUMPS implementation, Professor Kevin O'Kane, uses only 'MUMPS'.\n\nThe most recent standard (ISO/IEC 11756:1999, re-affirmed on 25 June 2010), still mentions both M and MUMPS as officially accepted names.\n\nMassachusetts General Hospital registered \"MUMPS\" as a trademark with the USPTO on November 28, 1971, and renewed it on November 16, 1992 - but let it expired on August 30, 2003.\n\nMUMPS invites comparison with the Pick operating system. Similarities include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2621065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621065", "title": "Medical University of Vienna", "text": "Medical University of Vienna\n\nThe Medical University of Vienna (German: \"Medizinische Universität Wien\") is a public university located in Vienna, Austria. It is the direct successor to the faculty of medicine at the University of Vienna, founded in 1365 by Rudolf IV, Duke of Austria. As one of the oldest medical schools in the world, it is the oldest in the German-speaking countries, and was the second medical faculty in the Holy Roman Empire, after the Charles University of Prague.\n\nThe Medical University of Vienna is the largest medical organisation in Austria, as well as one of the top-level research institutions in Europe and provides Europe's largest hospital, the Vienna General Hospital, with all of its medical staff.\nIt consists of 31 university clinics and clinical institutes, and 12 medical-theoretical departments, which perform around 48,000 operations each year. The Vienna General Hospital has about 100,000 patients treated as inpatients and 605,000 treated as outpatients each year.\n\nThere have been seven Nobel prize laureates affiliated with the medical faculty, and fifteen in total with the University of Vienna. These include Robert Bárány, Julius Wagner-Jauregg and Karl Landsteiner, the discoverer of the ABO blood type system and the Rhesus factor. Sigmund Freud qualified as a doctor at the medical faculty and worked as a doctor and lecturer at the General Hospital, carrying out research into cerebral palsy, aphasia and microscopic neuroanatomy.\n\nIn the 2014–15 Times Higher Education Rankings, the Medical University of Vienna is listed among the top 15 medical schools in Europe and 49th in the world. (Clinical, Pre-Clinical and Health).\n\nIn 2016, there were 6,093 applicants for 660 places in medicine proper and 80 in dentistry, which corresponds to an admission rate of about 12.14%. Admission is based upon ranking in an admission test called \"MedAT\", which is carried out every summer in conjunction with the three other public medical schools of Austria: the Medical University of Graz, the Medical University of Innsbruck and the Medical Faculty at the Johannes Kepler University Linz.\n\nAs the founding member of the \"Alma mater Rudolfina\" (University of Vienna) founded in 1365, the medical faculty was already widely renowned in medieval times as an authority in medicine. Faculty records from as far back as 1399 document its mediation in disputes between barber surgeons, midwives, and local landowners. During the reign of Maria Theresia, Viennese medicine first attained international significance. The Habsburg Monarch summoned the Dutch physician, Gerard van Swieten, to Vienna. He in turn laid the foundation for the Vienna Medical School and paved the way for other leading figures. Anton de Haen, Maximilian Stoll, Lorenz Gasser, Anton von Störck, and the discoverer of the percussion technique, Leopold Auenbrugger, all taught and conducted research in the imperial city. Based on longstanding traditions, what now is referred to as \"bedside teaching\" also became the paradigmatic educational method during this period.\n\nWhen the Vienna General Hospital opened in 1784, physicians acquired a new facility that gradually developed into the most important research center. During the 19th century, the \"Second Viennese Medical School\" emerged with the contributions of physicians such as Karl Rokitansky, Josef Skoda, Ferdinand von Hebra and Ignaz Philipp Semmelweis. Basic medical science expanded and specialization advanced. Furthermore, the first dermatology, eye, as well as otolaryngology clinics in the world were founded in Vienna.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, Viennese Medicine belonged to the first class internationally. Clemens von Pirquet defined the concepts of \"allergy\" and \"serum sickness,\" Ernst Peter Pick conducted significant experiments on the chemical specificity of immunological reactions, and the Vienna School of Dentistry (founded by Bernhard Gotlieb) reached its zenith in the 1920s. All four Nobel Prizes, which were granted to (former) Viennese physicians during the next decades Robert Bárány (1914), Julius Wagner-Jauregg (1927), Karl Landsteiner (1930), and Otto Loewi (1936)], were the result of work undertaken at this time. The excellent tradition and research extended well into the First Austrian Republic. Under the auspices of the Medical Association of Vienna, which was founded in Vienna, well-received postgraduate courses for doctors worldwide were organized into the 1930s.\n\nWith the annexation of Austria by National Socialist Germany on 13 March 1938 the darkest phase in Viennese medicine began. More than half of the University medical instructors, mostly those of Jewish descent, and 65% of Viennese physicians were dismissed. Many renowned researchers, physicians, and students were forced to emigrate or died in concentration camps and under other tragic circumstances.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War II difficult years lay ahead of the University. The past glory had faded considerably. Moreover, 75% of all university medical instructors had to be dismissed because of their moderate to heavy involvement with the National Socialist regime. They were gradually replaced by a newly trained generation of educators. This double rupture in Viennese Medicine, which occurred in just a few years, caused repercussions that lasted for long after the war.\n\nAfter the independence of the medical faculty as an independent institution the newly founded pure medical university could reposition itself in international research and regain international recognition. For example, in the fields of bionic reconstruction, some notable results could be achieved. A British soldier who lost his arm during the Afghanistan war received a bionic reconstruction at the department of surgery of the Vienna General Hospital.\nFurthermore, the Vienna General Hospital and Medical University of Vienna are the largest centre for lung transplantation in Europe and the second-largest lung transplantation centre worldwide after the University of Pittsburgh. Up until 2009, over 1,000 lung transplants had been performed and currently about 100 transplantations are carried out per year.\n\nThe Medical University of Vienna is the reference center of Siemens for the seven Tesla magnetic resonance imaging scanner \"MAGNETOM 7T\". Founded in 2003, the High Field MR Centre (HFMR) acts today as a core research facility for the Medical University of Vienna. It combines basic research and development of methods with a strong focus on applications in neuroscience, musculoskeletal research, oncology and metabolism. The declared goal is to validate the potential of ultra-high field (UHF) MRI in clinical applications.\n\nThe Medical University of Vienna, through its history as the University of Vienna's Faculty of Medicine, has a long history of teaching and research. Some of the personalities having taught and learned at the institution are included in the following lists.\n\nCurrently, there are five eligible programmes:\n\n\nMedicine and dentistry both are of a duration of six years and require higher education entrance qualification. In Austria and Switzerland this would correspond to a Matura, in Germany the Abitur or similar qualifications from other EU countries.\nLanguage of instruction is German, but usually students are expected to be able to be fluent in English. A diploma thesis is required to graduate and can be written in German or English.\n\nThe courses of study lead to the degree of \"Dr. med. univ.\" for medical doctors and \"Dr. med. dent.\" for dentists, which correspond to MD in the United States or MBBS or MBChB in the United Kingdom.\nGraduates have the right to move freely within the European Union and to start a specialty training.\n\n\nMedical informatics is a master's degree and requires a bachelor's degree (Bologna Process) for application.\n\n\nApplied medical science and PhD both are postdoc programmes i.e. require a medical degree or similar.\nFor students of the university, possibility is given to start the PhD-programme during the medical programme.\n\nThe Museum of the Medical University is mainly housed in the \"Josephinum\", designed and built in 1783-1785 to house the medical-surgical academy.\nThe building includes a six-room collection of 1,192 wax anatomical and obstrectical models made in Florence by Clemente Susini under the supervision of Paolo Mascagni between 1784 and 1788.\n\n"}
{"id": "5924684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5924684", "title": "Multiple Myeloma Research Consortium", "text": "Multiple Myeloma Research Consortium\n\nThe mission of the Multiple Myeloma Research Consortium (MMRC) is to champion collaboration with and integration across academia and industry and to focus on speed and innovation to bring the most promising multiple myeloma treatments to patients faster. It was founded by Kathy Giusti, a myeloma patient and founder and chief executive officer of the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF).\n\nThe MMRC comprises 14 member institutions nationwide that form its clinical trials network. It is led by an executive committee in Norwalk, Connecticut, and a steering committee and progress review committee composed of researchers from MMRC Member Institutions. The MMRC also includes a shared tissue bank of annotated tissue and peripheral blood samples from multiple myeloma patients.\n\nThe MMRC currently comprises fourteen world-renowned academic institutions: Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, Mayo Clinic, City of Hope National Medical Center, Emory University, Indiana University, Hackensack University Medical Center, Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Center, University Health Network (Princess Margaret Cancer Centre), University of California, San Francisco Medical Center, University of Chicago, University of Michigan, and the Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine.\n\nThe MMRC Tissue Bank serves as a “bridge” between laboratory and clinical research conducted by the MMRC and is a resource to advance the MMRC Multiple Myeloma Genomics Initiative.\n\nThe MMRC is focused on advancing Phase I and Phase II clinical trials of novel compounds and combination approaches. To date, the MMRC has opened through its clinical trials network 22 clinical trials with industry partners – including Novartis, Celgene, Merck, and Proteolix. MMRC clinical trials are also designed to include correlative studies to better understand what drugs are most effective in treating various sub-groups of patients with myeloma, laying the foundation for the development of personalized medicine.\n\nThe MMRC Multiple Myeloma Genomics Initiative comprehensive genomic analysis program. It was designed to rapidly accelerate progress made against multiple myeloma by significantly improving the understanding of the biology of the disease. It is spearheaded by the MMRC and in collaboration with the Broad Institute and the Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50569157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50569157", "title": "NIA rhesus macaque calorie restriction study", "text": "NIA rhesus macaque calorie restriction study\n\nThe NIA rhesus macaque calorie restriction study was a study started in 1987 by the National Institute of Aging. It showed that calorie restriction did not extend years of life or reduce age-related deaths in rhesus monkeys. It did improve certain measures of health, however.\n\nThese results were publicized as being different from the Wisconsin rhesus macaque calorie restriction study, which also started in 1987 and showed an increase in the lifespan of rhesus macaques following calorie restriction.\n"}
{"id": "2145998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2145998", "title": "North Vista Hospital", "text": "North Vista Hospital\n\nNorth Vista Hospital is a for-profit hospital owned and operated by Prime Healthcare Services and is the only hospital in North Las Vegas, Nevada. The hospital provides 177 beds.\n\nThe hospital opened in 1959 as North Las Vegas Hospital with 33 beds. It was later renamed Community Hospital and Lake Mead Hospital Medical Center and has undergone several expansions, including construction of the west tower and Women's Plaza complex in the mid 1990s.\n\nIn 2014, its former owner IASIS Healthcare sold it to Prime Healthcare Services.\n"}
{"id": "1813186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813186", "title": "Nurse education", "text": "Nurse education\n\nNurse education consists of the theoretical and practical training provided to nurses with the purpose to prepare them for their duties as nursing care professionals. This education is provided to nursing students by experienced nurses and other medical professionals who have qualified or experienced for educational tasks. Most countries offer nurse education courses that can be relevant to general nursing or to specialized areas including mental health nursing, pediatric nursing and post-operatory nursing. Courses leading to autonomous registration as a nurse typically last four years. Nurse education also provides post-qualification courses in specialist subjects within nursing.\n\nDuring past decades, the changes in education have replaced the more practically focused, but often ritualistic, training structure of conventional preparation. Nurse education integrates today a broader awareness of other disciplines allied to medicine, often involving inter-professional education, and the utilization of research when making clinical and managerial decisions. Orthodox training can be argued to have offered a more intense practical skills base, but emphasized the handmaiden relationship with the physician. This is now outmoded, and the impact of nurse education is to develop a confident, inquiring graduate who contributes to the care team as an equal. In some countries, not all qualification courses have graduate status.\n\nTraditionally, from the times prior to Florence Nightingale, nursing was seen as an apprenticeship, often undertaken in religious institutes such as convents by young women, although there has always been a proportion of male nurses, especially in mental health services. In 1860 Nightingale set up the first nurse training school at St Thomas' Hospital, London. Nightingale's curriculum was largely base around nursing practice, with instruction focused upon the need for hygiene and task competence. Her methods are reflected in her \"Notes on Nursing\", (1898).\n\nSome other nurses at that time, notably Ethel Gordon Fenwick, were in favor of formalized nursing registration and curricula that were formally based in higher education and not within the confines of hospitals.\n\nNurse education in the United States is conducted within university schools, although it is unclear who offered the first degree level program. So far as known Yale School of Nursing became the first autonomous school of nursing in the United States in 1923.\n\nIn November 1955, a World Health Organization (WHO) study group on the education of nurses met in Brussels and made several recommendations, including that \"At least one experimental school of nursing be set up in each country.\" In the UK, the first department of Nursing Studies at the University of Edinburgh was established in 1956, with a five-year integrated degree programme introduced in 1960. Several other universities across the UK during the 1960s. In 1974 La Trobe University commenced the very first nursing course in Australia.\n\nThere are multiple entry levels into nursing. This has led to confusion for the public, as well as other healthcare professionals. The earliest schools of nursing offered a Diploma in Nursing and not an actual academic degree. Community colleges began offering an Associate of Science in Nursing degree, and some diploma programs switched to this model. Universities then began to offer Bachelor of Science in Nursing and Bachelor of Nursing degrees, followed by Master of Science in Nursing degrees, and Doctor of Nursing Practice degrees.\n\nPre-registration nurse training and education in the UK is now via a bachelor's degree (a UK Level 6 qualification) following the phasing-out of the Diploma of Higher Education (a UK Level 5 qualification) in Nursing which was previously offered at universities and colleges.\n\nTo become a student nurse, individuals must apply through the University and Colleges Admissions Service (commonly referred to as \"UCAS\") to their nursing degree choices, choosing from one of the four nursing fields: Adult, Children, Mental Health and Learning Disabilities. Requirements for entry to a pre-reg nursing degree are usually five GCSEs (including mathematics, English language and at least one science subject) at Grade C or above, along with three A-Level subjects (preferably but not essentially science-based) at Grade C or above, although the majority of universities will seek higher grades due to the competition for places. Key Skills courses are generally no-longer accepted as an alternative to GCSEs, however science or healthcare-based BTEC Level 3 Extended Diplomas and Access courses are most oftem accepted in lieu of A-Level qualifications.\n\nIf successful following interview, the student will study a \"core\" first year, learning basic nursing competencies essential to all four of the above fields. It is then from second year and onwards that the degree will begin to focus on the student's chosen field. Following completion of the degree, the applicant will be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) as a Registered Nurse in their field of practice, using the post-nominal RNA, RNC, RNMH or RNLD as appropriate to their degree qualification.\n\nThere are two specific pathways individuals can take if they wish to become a nurse in Western Australia (WA). They can decide to study at university to become a registered nurse (RN), alternatively they can study at Technical and Further Education (TAFE) to become an enrolled nurse (EN). Both pathways require a variety of entry requirements whether it be passing year 12 Maths, English and Human Biology along with receiving a specific Australian Tertiary Admission Rank (ATAR) also known as a score for university or providing prior learning experiences and legal clearances for TAFE. Either way individuals need to be aware these requirements can vary year to year and that is why they are recommended to contact each university or institute to find out entry requirements.\n\nIn WA there are four universities where individuals can choose to attend if they are wanting to complete a nursing degree.\n\nEdith Cowan University (ECU) is located at Joondalup and South West (Bunbury) campus. ECU offers the Bachelor of Science (Nursing) degree which individuals can choose to study for three years full time or six years part time both on campus.\n\nCurtain University is located in Bently, WA. This university offers an Undergraduate Nursing degree additionally referred to as Bachelor of Science (Nursing). This degree runs on campus for three and a half years full time however, students can request to study this degree part time.\n\nMurdoch University also offers offer a Bachelor of Nursing degree with a three year completion date. The university offers this degree at Peel or South Street campus in Murdoch, WA.\n\nThe final university that offers a nursing degree in WA is located throughout Fremantle and is known as the University of Notre Dame. This university offer a Bachelor of Nursing degree which will take three years to achieve.\n\nWhen students graduate from one of the four universities listed above they will be fully qualified as an RN and have a wide variety of job opportunities available. However, if individuals discover that university is not for them or can not gain entry into university, it is not the end of the world because there are alternative pathways available.\n\nAttending TAFE is an alternative career pathway for individuals that still wish to pursue this profession. There are six institutes spread across WA which offer a Diploma of Nursing (Enrolled-Division 2 Nursing). These institutes include C.Y.O’Connor Institute, Great Southern Institute of Technology, Goldfields Institute of Technology, Pilbara Institute, South West Institute of Technology and West Coast Institute of Training. All institutes in WA roughly take eighteen months to complete the diploma when studying full time. Once a student successfully graduates from the Diploma of Nursing (Enrolled-Division 2 Nursing) they will be qualified as an EN.\n\nOverall, there are alternative pathways available however an RN holds higher qualifications than an EN. There are key similarities of an RN and an EN as they both desire to fulfil their dreams of becoming a nurse and they must be registered with the Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia, by complying with the Board’s registration standards.\n\nNursing education includes instruction in topic areas. These are nursing assessment, nursing diagnosis, and nursing care planning. \nIn the United States, nursing students learn through traditional classroom and lab instruction. Nursing education also involves clinical rotations and simulation, throughout their schooling, to develop care planning and clinical reasoning. At the end of schooling, nursing students in the US and Canada, must take and pass the NCLEX, National Council of Licensure Examination to practice.\n\nThere are a variety of areas where nurses can specialise in and they may decide they want to be qualified in one or several specialities over the course of their career. Here are an array of some of the nursing specialty fields available:\n\nAmong nurse educators, arguments continue about the ideal balance of practical preparation and the need to educate the future practitioner to manage healthcare and to have a broader view of the practice. To meet both requirements, nurse education aims to develop a lifelong learner who can adapt effectively to changes in both the theory and practice of nursing.\n\nWhile it is clear that the use of Medical simulation in nursing education is important for improving practice, patient safety, and interprofessional team skills, the balance of simulation to clinical time remains in the hands of the institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "763780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763780", "title": "Occupational noise", "text": "Occupational noise\n\nOccupational noise is the amount of acoustic energy received by an employee's auditory system when they are working in the industry. Occupational noise, or industrial noise, is often a term used in occupational safety and health, as sustained exposure can cause permanent hearing damage.\n\n\"Twenty-two million workers are exposed to potentially damaging noise at work each year. Last year, U.S. business paid more than $1.5 million in penalties for not protecting workers from noise.\" - OSHA\n\nOccupational noise is considered an occupational hazard traditionally linked to loud industries such as ship-building, mining, railroad work, welding, and construction, but can be present in any workplace where hazardous noise is present.\n\nIn the United States, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) work together to provide standards and regulations for noise in the workplace.\n\nNational Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) have all set standards on hazardous occupational noise in their respective industries. Each industry is different, as workers' tasks and equipment differ, but most regulations agree that noise becomes hazardous when it exceeds 85 decibels, for an 8-hour time exposure (typical work shift). This relationship between allotted noise level and exposure time is known as an Exposure action value (EAV) or Permissible exposure limit (PEL). The EAV or PEL can be seen as equations which manipulate the allotted exposure time according to the intensity of the industrial noise. This equation works as an inverse, exponential, relationship. As the industrial noise intensity increases, the allotted exposure tie, to still remain safe, decreases.\n\nThe above calculations of PEL and EAV are based on measurements taken to determine the intensity of that particular industrial noise. A-weighted measurements are commonly used to determine noise levels that can cause harm to the human ear. There are also special exposure meters available that integrate noise over a period of time to give an value (equivalent sound pressure level), defined by standards.\n\nOccupational noise, if experienced repeatedly, at high intensity, for an extended period of time, can cause noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) which is then classified as occupational hearing loss.\n\nNoise, in the context of industrial noise, is hazardous to a person's hearing because of its loud intensity through repeated long-term exposure. In order for noise to cause hearing impairment for the worker, the noise has to be close enough, loud enough, and sustained long enough to damage the hair cells in the auditory system. Please see Occupational hearing loss or Noise-induced hearing loss for more information regarding the physiology of hearing loss. These factors have been taken into account by the governing occupational health and safety organization to determine the unsafe noise exposure levels and durations for their respective industries.\n\nNoise can also affect the safety of the employee and others. Noise can be a causal factor in work accidents as it may mask hazards and warning signals and impede concentration. High intensity noise interferes with vital workplace communication which increases the chance of accidents and decreases productivity.\n\nNoise may also act synergistically with other hazards to increase the risk of harm to workers. In particular, toxic materials (e.g. some solvents, metals, asphyxiants and pesticides) have some ototoxic properties that may affect hearing function.\n\nModern thinking in occupational safety and health further identifies noise as hazardous to workers' safety and health. This hazard is experienced in various places of employment and through a variety of sources.\n\nNoise, in the context of industrial noise, is hazardous to a persons hearing because of its loud intensity through repeated long-term exposure. In order for Noise to cause Hearing impairment for the worker, the noise has to be close enough, loud enough and the listener has to be exposed for long enough. These factors have been taken into account by the governing occupational health and safety organizations as they determine the unsafe noise exposure levels and durations for their respective industries.\n\nNational Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) have all set standards on hazardous occupational noise in their respective industries. Each industry is different, as workers tasks and equipment differ, but most regulations agree that noise becomes hazardous when it exceeds 85 Decibel, for an 8-hour exposure (typical work shift). This relationship between allotted noise level and exposure time is known as an Exposure action value (EAV) or Permissible exposure limit (PEL). The EAV or PEL can be seen as equations which manipulate the allotted exposure time according to the intensity of the industrial noise. This equation works as an inverse relationship. As the industrial noise intensity increases, the allotted exposure time, to still remain safe, decreases.\n\nThese above calculations of PEL and EAV are based on measurements taken to determine the intensity of that particular industrial noise. A-weighted measurements are commonly used to determine noise levels that can cause harm to the human ear. There are also special exposure meters available that integrate noise over a period of time to give an value (equivalent sound pressure level), defined by standards.\n\nThere are several ways to limit your exposure to hazardous occupational noise. The hierarchy of controls is a guideline for reducing hazardous noise. First, the company can eliminate the noise source. If the noise source cannot be eliminated, the company must try to reduce the noise with alternative methods. This process is called acoustic quieting. \n\nAcoustic quieting is the process of making machinery quieter by damping vibrations to prevent them from reaching the observer. The company can isolate the certain piece of machinery by placing materials on the machine or in between the machine and the worker to decreases the signal intensity that reaches the worker's ear.\n\nTo decrease an employee's exposure to hazardous noise, the company can also take administrative control by limiting the employee's exposure time. This can be done by changing work shifts and switching employees out from the noise exposure area. Lastly, to decrease occupational noise exposure, hearing protection should be used. There are several types of earplugs and earmuffs that can be used to attenuate the noise to a safe level.\n\nFor a more detailed description of the hierarchy of controls, please see Occupational hearing loss. \n\nSince the hazards of occupational noise exposure were realized, programs and initiatives such as the US Buy Quiet program have been set up to regulate or discourage noise exposure. The Buy Quiet initiative promotes the purchase of quieter tools and equipment and encourages manufacturers to design quieter machines. Additionally, the Safe-In-Sound Award was created to recognize successes in hearing loss prevention programs or initiatives.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "6265065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6265065", "title": "Packers and Stockyards Act", "text": "Packers and Stockyards Act\n\nThe Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 (7 U.S.C. §§ 181-229b; P&S Act) was enacted following the release in 1919 of the Report of the Federal Trade Commission on the meatpacking industry.\n\nAs the outbreak of World War I occurred and the cost of living rose, President Woodrow Wilson ordered the FTC to investigate the industry from the \"hoof to the table\" to determine whether or not there were any \"manipulations, controls, trusts, combinations, or restraints out of harmony with the law or the public interest.\"\n\nThe FTC reported packers were manipulating markets, restricting flow of foods, controlling the price of dressed meat, defrauding producers and consumers of food and crushing competition. The FTC, in fact, recommended governmental ownership of the stockyards and their related facilities.\n\nThe meat packing industry had also become a prime concern of Wilson's Attorney General Alexander Mitchell Palmer. After threatening an antitrust suit, in February 1920 Palmer managed to force the \"Big Five\" packers (Armour, Cudahy, Morris, Swift and Wilson) to agree to a consent decree under the Sherman Antitrust Act which drove the packers out of all non-meat production, including stockyards, warehouses, wholesale and retail meat.\n\nAgitation for legislation to regulate the packers persisted into the Warren Harding administration despite the decree. The United States Congress sought to protect farm profits through the Emergency Tariff of 1921 on May 27. Congress passed the Packers and Stockyards Act on August 15, 1921 as H.R. 6320 and the law went into effect in September 1921. Congress would go on to pass the Future Trading Act the next week and granted farmers' co-ops broad antitrust immunity in the Capper-Volstead Act on February 18, 1922.\n\nThe Act's purpose at the time it was passed was to \"regulate interstate and foreign commerce in live stock, live-stock produce, dairy products, poultry, poultry products, and eggs, and for other purposes.\" It prohibited packers from engaging in unfair and deceptive practices, giving undue preferences to persons or localities, apportioning supply among packers in restraint of commerce, manipulating prices, creating a monopoly or conspiring to aid in unlawful acts. The Act also made stockyards quasi-public utilities and required yard officers, agents and employees to register with the government. Stockyards were forbidden from dealing in the livestock they handled, and required them to maintain accurate weights and measures and pay shippers promptly. However, not all stockyards were under the jurisdiction of the Act. Only those with pen space larger than twenty thousand square feet were regulated.\n\nToday, the Act's scope has expanded to regulate the activity of livestock dealers, market agencies, live poultry dealers and swine contractors as well as meatpackers.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States upheld the act in \"Stafford v. Wallace\" (1922). Chief Justice William Howard Taft reasoned the act was a valid exercise under the interstate Commerce Clause because it addressed the same problem as the injunction upheld in \"Swift & Co. v. United States\" (1905).\n\nIn 1996, a group of cattle feeders brought a class action lawsuit under the P&S Act against Iowa Beef Packers for captive supply agreements. In 2004, a jury delivered a verdict for the plaintiffs, finding damages of $1.2 billion. The verdict was then thrown out by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in \"Pickett v. Tyson Fresh Meats Inc.\" (2005) because it found the meatpacker had a legitimate business reason to limit competition.\n\nIn 2008, a federal district court found that Pilgrim's Pride had given undue advantages to Lonnie \"Bo\" Pilgrim, its founder and chairman. Judge Emilio M. Garza of United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed, over a dissent by Judge Thomas Morrow Reavley. The Fifth Circuit en banc then reversed, voting 9-7 in \"Wheeler v. Pilgrim's Pride Corp.\" (2009). Judge Reavley wrote that all claims under the P&S Act must prove adverse impact to competition, over a dissent by Judge Garza.\n\nThe P&S Act is administered by the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) of the United States Department of Agriculture. In 2010, GIPSA Administrator J. Dudley Butler and United States Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust Christine A. Varney held a series of hearing on monopsony, market manipulation, and market concentration in agriculture. On June 22, 2010, GIPSA published a proposed rule that would have reduced the legal standard for anti-competitive practices, forbidden unfair practices and undue advantages even without harm to competition, and ensured producers had access to arbitration. In addition, the proposed rule sought to combat price fixing by prohibiting packers from selling to other packers and preventing multiple packers from using a single buyer.\n\nThe proposed rule was supported by the National Farmers Union and the U.S. Cattlemen's Association but opposed by the National Cattlemen's Beef Association and the National Chicken Council. USDA estimated the rule would cost between $21.3 million to $72.1 million. The American Meat Institute estimated the rule would cost $14 billion.\n\nOn November 3, 2011, GIPSA announced it would publish the final rule, but without the controversial price fixing measures. On November 18, 2011, Congress defunded USDA's implementation of most of the rest of the rule. Assistant AG Varney and Administrator Butler had both resigned by the end of January 2012.\n\nCongress continued defunding the rule in riders to the 2013, 2014, and 2015 appropriation bills. An amendment to permanently repeal the GIPSA rule in the Agricultural Act of 2014 failed after meatpackers' opposition to the rule was lampooned on Last Week Tonight with John Oliver.\nThe Act has been updated several times to keep pace with a changing and dynamic industry.\n\nThe first major amendment to the Act was in 1958, when Congress expanded the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to include all auction markets operating in commerce. Before 1958, only auction markets with an area of 20,000 square feet (1,858 m) or more were covered. In addition, jurisdiction over market agencies and dealers was expanded to include all of their livestock activities in commerce, including those away from stockyards.\n\nIn 1976, the Act was amended to increase financial protection to livestock producers and to expand USDA jurisdiction. This amendment:\n\nIn subsequent legislation that amount was increased to $11,000 for packers, swine contractors, stockyard owners, market agencies, or dealers, and $27,000 for live poultry dealers.\n\nIn 1987, the Act was amended to provide trust protection to live poultry sellers and contract growers in the event of nonpayment for poultry by live poultry dealers and in 2000 it was amended to require P&SP to perform an annual assessment of the cattle and hog industries.\n\nThe Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill) amended the Act to regulate certain activities of swine contractors who enter into swine production contracts with contract growers.\n\nIn general, the amendment made swine contractors subject to certain provisions of the Packers and Stockyards Act. The amendment prohibited certain activities of swine contractors, required swine contractors to maintain certain records, and held them responsible for the acts of their employees, officers, and agents. The amendment also gave swine production contract growers the right to sue swine contractors in federal district court. The amendment did not impose any new bonding or registration requirements, establish a trust for swine production contract growers, or establish any prompt payment requirements for swine contractors.\n\nChronological amendments and revisions to the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "28889156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28889156", "title": "Problem Gambling Foundation of New Zealand", "text": "Problem Gambling Foundation of New Zealand\n\nThe Problem Gambling Foundation of New Zealand (PGF) is a national non-profit organisation in New Zealand predominantly funded by the Ministry of Health with funds received from the gambling levy.\n\nPGF is the largest single treatment provider for problem gambling in Australasia, with over 60 locations throughout New Zealand and a staff of 70. Qualified counselors provide free, professional and confidential counseling services for gamblers and others affected by gambling; a dedicated public health team works on problem-gambling issues in the community with a health promotion approach.\n\nPGF's Asian Family Services provides professional counseling and advice in Cantonese, Mandarin, Korean, Vietnamese, Khmer and Thai.\n\nThe PGF began as the Compulsive Gambling Society (CGS) in 1988 with funding from the New Zealand Lottery Grants Board. Psychiatrist Fraser McDonald helped three men who were experiencing problems with gambling establish the CGS because, at that time, there were no services available for gambling problems. CGS started out as a telephone service, with the first national hotline of its type beginning in 1992. As the need grew, services expanded to include face-to-face services; a second clinic was opened in Manurewa in 1993.\n\nIn 2001 The PGF succeeded the CGS, moving from an addictions and medical-based philosophy to a public-health approach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7960257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7960257", "title": "Pseudoachondroplasia", "text": "Pseudoachondroplasia\n\nPseudoachondroplasia is an inherited disorder of bone growth. It is a genetic autosomal dominant disorder. It is generally not discovered until 2-3 years of age, since growth is normal at first. Pseudoachondroplasia is usually first detected by a drop of linear growth in contrast to peers, a curious, waddling gait or arising lower limb deformities. \n\nPseudoachondroplasia (also known as PSACH, Pseudoachondroplastic dysplasia, and Pseudoachondroplastic spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia syndrome) is an osteochondrodysplasia that results in mild to severely short stature due to the inhibition of skeletal growth primarily in the limbs. Though similarities in nomenclature may cause confusion, Pseudoachondroplasia should not be confused with achondroplasia, which is a clinically and genetically distinct skeletal dysplasia. Pseudoachondroplasia is caused by a heterozygous mutation in the gene encoding cartilage oligomeric matrix protein COMP. Mutation in the COMP gene can also multiple epiphyseal dysplasia. Despite the radioclinical similarities between pseudoachondroplasia and multiple epiphyseal dysplasia, the latter is less severe.132400 \n\nDisproportionate short stature, deformity of the lower limbs, short fingers, and \nligamentous laxity give pseudoachondroplasia its distinctive features. The average height of adult males with the condition is around 120 centimeters (3 ft, 11 in), while adult females are typically around 116 cm (3ft, 9in). Affected individuals are not noticeably short at birth. Patients with pseudoachondroplasia present with gait abnormalities, lower limb deformity, or a retarded growth rate that characteristically appear at age 2-3 years. Disproportionate short stature is characterized by shortening of proximal limb segments (humeri and femora) also called rhizomelic shortening. Other known clinical features include, genu valgum/varum, brachydactyly (short fingers), supple flexion deformity of the hips, knees, hyperlordosis of lumbar spine, rocker bottom feet and broadening of the metaphyseal ends of long bones especially around the wrists, knees and ankles. Patients with pseudoachondroplasia have normal intelligence and craniofacial features, “Figure 1”, “Figure 2”, “Figure 3”. \n\nPseudoachondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, though one case of a very rare autosomal recessive form has been documented. The offspring of affected individuals are at 50% risk of inheriting the mutant allele. Prenatal testing by molecular genetic examination is available if the disease-causing mutation has been identified in an affected family member (Hecht et al. 1995). \n\nCOMP is an extracellular calcium binding protein directly involved in chondrocyte migration and proliferation. It is observed at a high frequency in chondrocytes in developing bone and tendon. In pseudochondroplasia, COMP is not secreted, but instead collects in the chondrocytes, ultimately poisoning and killing them. Though some chondrocytes do manage to survive, growth is significantly reduced, resulting in the characteristically short limbs and seemingly unaffected face and torso of those inflicted with the disorder (OMIM 2008). Mutations in COMP result in a phenotypic spectrum that varies from pseudochondroplasia (at the most extreme end) to multiple epiphyseal dysplasia or MED (a genetically similar, though milder skeletal dysplasia). \n\nStudies conducted by Hetch et al. suggest that type IX collagen, a collagen active specifically in the construction of cartilage, plays a key role in pseudoachondroplasia. The researchers found that IX collagen was amassed within the pseudoachondroplasia chondrocytes. This discovery suggests that the pathogenesis of pseudoachondroplasia involves the interactions of the mutant COMP gene products with specific cartilage components, such as type IX collagen, and that it is not solely the result of the effects of mutant molecules on the production and secretion of COMP (OMIM 2008).\n\nThe COMP gene is located on chromosome 19p13.1; its precise locus is P49747. COMP contains 19 exons. The cartilage oligomeric matrix protein is 757 aa (OMIM 2008). COMP protein is found in the extracellular matrix, a complex web of proteins and other molecules that form in the spaces between the cells that make up ligaments and tendons. It is also found near chondrocytes (cartilage-forming cells). Chondrocytes play a vital role in osteogenesis (the formation of bone), particularly in the spine, hips, and limbs where osteogenesis begins with the formation of cartilage, which is then calcified and transformed into bone. We do not yet fully understand the normal function of COMP protein, though it is believed to play a part in cellular growth, division and apoptosis (self-destruction) of cells, as well as participating in the regulation of cell movement and attachment (OMIM 2008). \n\nNearly 60 mutations in the COMP gene have been identified in individuals with pseudoachondroplasia. However, the mutation responsible for the most common allele is a deletion of one codon within a very short triplet repeat (GAC), in which the 469th amino acid, an aspartic acid, is deleted (OMIM 2008).\n\nExact diagnosis remains widely built on precise history taking, with the characteristic clinical and radiographic skeletal features. Genetic diagnosis is based on DNA sequencing. Because plasma COMP levels are significantly reduced in patients with COMP mutations, such as pseudoachondroplasia, measuring plasma COMP levels has become a reliable means of diagnosing this and pathopysiologically similar disorders. \nAccurate assessment of plain radiographic findings remains an important contributor to diagnosis of pseudoachondroplasia. It is noteworthy that vertebral radiographic abnormalities tend to resolve over time. Epiphyseal abnormalities tend to run a progressive course. Patients usually suffer early-onset arthritis of hips and knees. Many unique skeletal radiographic abnormalities of patients with pseudoachondroplasia have been reported in the literature. \n\nThere is currently no cure for pseudoachondroplasia. However, management of the various health problems that result from the disorder includes medications such as analgesics (painkillers) for joint discomfort, osteotomy for lower limb deformities, and the surgical treatment of scoliosis. Prevention of some related health problems includes physical therapy to preserve joint flexibility and regular examinations to detect degenerative joint disease and neurological manifestations (particularly spinal cord compression). Additionally, healthcare providers recommend treatment for psychosocial issues related to short stature and other physical deformities for both affected individuals and their families (OMIM 2008). \n\nPseudoachondroplasia is one of the most common skeletal dysplasias affecting all racial groups. However, no precise incidence figures are currently available (Suri et al. 2004). \n\nIn 1995 the gene responsible for Pseudoachondroplasia was identified by a research team led by Dr. Jacqueline Hecht of The University of Texas-Houston, Health Science Center. This discovery additionally shed light on the COMP protein, which the team recognized as somehow involved in skeletal growth and height determination (Hetch et al. 1995). \n\nIn 1997, Hetch and her colleagues from the Research Department at Shriners Hospital for Children in Portland, Oregon conducted further research, which led to their discovery that the intracellular fate of mutant COMP is determined by the environment of individual chondrocytes, contrary to the previous notion that COMP activities leading to Pseudoachondroplasia were determined by structural effects of the mutation on COMP; this meant that COMP activities are cell-specific (Hetch et al. 1995). \n\nHetch et al. also discovered type IX collagen accumulated within the Pseudoachondroplasia chondrocytes. This discovery indicated the pathogenesis of Pseudoachondroplasia results from the interactions of the products of the mutant COMP allele with certain “cartilage components,” particularly with type IX collagen (Hetch et al. 1995).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36562510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36562510", "title": "REGI Base Foundation", "text": "REGI Base Foundation\n\nThe REGI Base Foundation is a nonprofit organization based in Prague, Czech Republic, which provides medical treatment for veterans of foreign wars.\n\nWith a facility currently being constructed in Svémyslice, Czech Republic.\n\nThe intent is to provide a location where wounded warriors can receive year-round care if they cannot be treated at home or by the state.\n\nThe inspiration for REGI Base Foundation came after Chief Warrant Officer Jiří (Regi) Schams was severely wounded during a suicide attack in March 2008 in the Helmand province of Afghanistan. Regi himself had little chance for survival after the attack, but showed signs of improvement after several months of treatment. Regi was confined to a wheelchair due to his brain injury that had affected his motor skills and coordination. Regi died on January 7, 2015 due to complications from cancer. His legacy and inspiration live on to continue the treatment and care for wounded veterans from across the globe.\n\nThe aim of the Foundation is to build a facility in the Czech Republic with equipment to provide care and rehabilitation to veterans with disabilities. This will provide for social, health, and cultural rehabilitation.\n\nUpon completion, the complex will include a dedicated medical section and provide housing units for long-term therapy clients and hotel-type rooms (for the accommodation of visitors).\n\nThe center will be open to veterans from both NATO member states and other international armed forces.\n\nIn addition to its original location, REGI Base is also pursuing an expansion of the foundation in San Antonio, Texas, to serve wounded veterans within the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "21436421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21436421", "title": "Royal Institute of Health Sciences (Bhutan)", "text": "Royal Institute of Health Sciences (Bhutan)\n\nThe Royal Institute of Health Sciences (RIHS) is one of two main medical education centers in Bhutan, the other being the Institute of Traditional Medicine Services. The RIHS was established in Thimphu in 1974 as a member college of the Royal University of Bhutan, and is associated with the National Referral Hospital. The RIHS offers diploma and certificate programmes for nurses, medical technicians and other primary health care workers. The institute received the World Health Organization's 50th Anniversary Award for Primary Health Care in 1998. \nHealth infrastructure is improving in Bhutan and there is growing number of trained human resources, but the country still had only 2 doctors per 10,000 population in 2005. \nThe RIHS cannot train doctors, so Bhutan must send candidates to neighboring countries such as Bangladesh, India, Myanmar and Sri Lanka for their MBBS course.\n\nThe institute trains auxiliary nurse midwives, general nurse midwives and assistant nurses. \nA joint initiative between La Trobe University, the World Health Organization and the Royal Government of Bhutan gives Bhutanese qualified nurses the opportunity to obtain a bachelor's degree. \nStudents who successfully complete this program are eligible to apply for postgraduate studies in Australia.\n\nThe RIHS conducts a two-year Pharmacy Technician Course, teaching students pharmacy and pharmacology, with basic introductions to physiology, anatomy, health education, first aid etc. Other health work trainees are also taught pharmacology and pharmacy on similar lines.\n\nThe RIHS offers a 2 years of certificate program in Physiotherapy, following which the students work for a few more months in the general referral hospital, and are then sent out to provide services in various districts across the country.\n\nThe institute also trains health assistants, basic health workers, and technicians of various other disciplines such as laboratory, dental, medical radiography, ophthalmology and operation theater.\n"}
{"id": "19093787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19093787", "title": "Sarcopenic obesity", "text": "Sarcopenic obesity\n\nSarcopenic obesity is a medical condition which is defined as the presence of both sarcopenia and obesity. Sarcopenia refers to the presence of low muscle mass and either low muscular strength or low physical performance. When this is accompanied by a high fat mass the condition is known as sarcopenic obesity.\n\nThe symptoms are similar to those of sarcopenia and obesity. The individual may show a BMI that is appropriate and healthy to his or her age but will look fat in appearance.\n\nThe disease is caused due to a variety of reasons:\n\nThe problem of diagnosing a person with the condition is hard as there is no reference value for the appropriate lean mass. This is because healthy people tend to show variations in their composition due to their body types.\n\nAn appropriate weight training and weight loss program can help to improve the patient's condition.\nThe term is a mix of two different words- Sarcopenia and Obesity. \"Sarcopenia\" meaning loss of muscle and \"Obesity\" which is the increase in fat percentage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1058555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1058555", "title": "Schema (psychology)", "text": "Schema (psychology)\n\nIn psychology and cognitive science, a schema (plural \"schemata\" or \"schemas\") describes a pattern of thought or behavior that organizes categories of information and the relationships among them. It can also be described as a mental structure of preconceived ideas, a framework representing some aspect of the world, or a system of organizing and perceiving new information. Schemata influence attention and the absorption of new knowledge: people are more likely to notice things that fit into their schema, while re-interpreting contradictions to the schema as exceptions or distorting them to fit. Schemata have a tendency to remain unchanged, even in the face of contradictory information. Schemata can help in understanding the world and the rapidly changing environment. People can organize new perceptions into schemata quickly as most situations do not require complex thought when using schema, since automatic thought is all that is required.\n\nPeople use schemata to organize current knowledge and provide a framework for future understanding. Examples of schemata include academic rubrics, social schemas, stereotypes, social roles, scripts, worldviews, and archetypes. In Piaget's theory of development, children construct a series of schemata, based on the interactions they experience, to help them understand the world.\n\nBefore psychology separated from philosophy, the term \"schema\" was prominently discussed in philosophy by Immanuel Kant.\n\nEarly developments of the idea in psychology emerged with the gestalt psychologists and Jean Piaget: the term \"schema\" was introduced by Piaget in 1923. The concept was popularized in psychology and education through the work of the British psychologist Frederic Bartlett, who drew on the term body schema used by neurologist Henry Head. It was expanded into schema theory by educational psychologist Richard C. Anderson. Since then, other terms have been used to describe schema such as \"frame\", \"scene\" and \"script\".\n\nThrough the use of schemata, a heuristic technique to encode and retrieve memories, the majority of typical situations do not require much strenuous processing. People can quickly organize new perceptions into schemata and act without effort.\n\nHowever, schemata can influence and hamper the uptake of new information (proactive interference), such as when existing stereotypes, giving rise to limited or biased discourses and expectations (prejudices), lead an individual to \"see\" or \"remember\" something that has not happened because it is more believable in terms of his/her schema. For example, if a well-dressed businessman draws a knife on a vagrant, the schemata of onlookers may (and often do) lead them to \"remember\" the vagrant pulling the knife. Such distortion of memory has been demonstrated. (See below.)\n\nSchemata are interrelated and multiple conflicting schemata can be applied to the same information. Schemata are generally thought to have a level of activation, which can spread among related schemata. Which schema is selected can depend on factors such as current activation, accessibility, priming and emotion.\n\n\"Accessibility\" is how easily a schema comes to mind, and is determined by personal experience and expertise. This can be used as a cognitive shortcut; it allows the most common explanation to be chosen for new information.\n\nWith priming, a brief imperceptible stimulus temporarily provides enough activation to a schema so that it is used for subsequent ambiguous information. Although this may suggest the possibility of subliminal messages, the effect of priming is so fleeting that it is difficult to detect outside laboratory conditions. Furthermore, the mere exposure effect—which requires consciousness of the stimuli—is far more effective than priming.\n\nThe original concept of schemata is linked with that of reconstructive memory as proposed and demonstrated in a series of experiments by Bartlett. By presenting participants with information that was unfamiliar to their cultural backgrounds and expectations and then monitoring how they recalled these different items of information (stories, etc.), Bartlett was able to establish that individuals' existing schemata and stereotypes influence not only how they interpret \"schema-foreign\" new information but also how they recall the information over time. One of his most famous investigations involved asking participants to read a Native American folk tale, \"The War of the Ghosts\", and recall it several times up to a year later. All the participants transformed the details of the story in such a way that it reflected their cultural norms and expectations, i.e. in line with their schemata. The factors that influenced their recall were:\n\nBartlett's work was crucially important in demonstrating that long-term memories are neither fixed nor immutable but are constantly being adjusted as schemata evolve with experience. In a sense it supports the existentialist view that people construct the past and present in a constant process of narrative/discursive adjustment, and that much of what people \"remember\" is actually confabulated (adjusted and rationalized) narrative that allows them to think of the past as a continuous and coherent string of events, even though it is probable that large sections of memory (both episodic and semantic) are irretrievable at any given time.\n\nAn important step in the development of schema theory was taken by the work of D.E. Rumelhart describing the understanding of narrative and stories. Further work on the concept of schemata was conducted by W.F. Brewer and J.C. Treyens, who demonstrated that the schema-driven expectation of the presence of an object was sometimes sufficient to trigger its erroneous recollection. An experiment was conducted where participants were requested to wait in a room identified as an academic's study and were later asked about the room's contents. A number of the participants recalled having seen books in the study whereas none were present. Brewer and Treyens concluded that the participants' expectations that books are present in academics' studies were enough to prevent their accurate recollection of the scenes.\n\nIn the 1970s, computer scientist Marvin Minsky was trying to develop machines that would have human-like abilities. When he was trying to create solutions for some of the difficulties he encountered he came across Bartlett's work and decided that if he was ever going to get machines to act like humans he needed them to use their stored knowledge to carry out processes. To compensate for that he created what was known as the frame construct, which was a way to represent knowledge in machines. His frame construct can be seen as an extension and elaboration of the schema construct. He created the frame knowledge concept as a way to interact with new information. He proposed that fixed and broad information would be represented as the frame, but it would also be composed of slots that would accept a range of values; but if the world didn't have a value for a slot, then it would be filled by a default value. Because of Minsky's work, computers now have a stronger impact on psychology. In the 1980s, David Rumelhart extended Minsky's ideas, creating an explicitly psychological theory of the mental representation of complex knowledge.\n\nRoger Schank and Robert Abelson developed the idea of a script, which was known as a generic knowledge of sequences of actions. This led to many new empirical studies, which found that providing relevant schema can help improve comprehension and recall on passages.\n\nNew information that falls within an individual's schema is easily remembered and incorporated into their worldview. However, when new information is perceived that does not fit a schema, many things can happen. The most common reaction is to simply ignore or quickly forget the new information. This can happen on a deep level— frequently an individual does not become conscious of or even perceive the new information. People may also interpret the new information in a way that minimizes how much they must change their schemata. For example, Bob thinks that chickens don't lay eggs. He then sees a chicken laying an egg. Instead of changing the part of his schema that says \"chickens don't lay eggs\", he is likely to adopt the belief that the animal in question that he has just seen laying an egg is not a real chicken. This is an example of disconfirmation bias, the tendency to set higher standards for evidence that contradicts one's expectations. However, when the new information cannot be ignored, existing schemata must be changed or new schemata must be created (accommodation).\n\nJean Piaget (1896–1980) was known best for his work with development of human knowledge. He believed knowledge was constructed on cognitive structures, and he believed people develop cognitive structures by accommodating and assimilating information. Accommodation is creating new schema that will fit better with the new environment or adjusting old schema. Accommodation could also be interpreted as putting restrictions on a current schema. Accommodation usually comes about when assimilation has failed. Assimilation is when people use a current schema to understand the world around them. Piaget thought that schemata are applied to everyday life and therefore people accommodate and assimilate information naturally. For example, if this chicken has red feathers, Bob can form a new schemata that says \"chickens with red feathers can lay eggs\". This schemata will then be either changed or removed, in the future.\n\nAssimilation is the reuse of schemata to fit the new information. An example would be, when an unfamiliar dog is seen, a person will probably just integrate it into their dog schema. However, if the dog behaves strangely, and in ways that doesn't seem dog-like, there will be accommodation as a new schema is formed for that particular dog. With Accommodation and Assimilation comes the idea of equilibrium. Piaget describes equilibrium as a state of cognition that is balanced when schema are capable of explaining what it sees and perceives. When information is new and cannot fit into existing schema this is called disequilibrium and this is an unpleasant state for the child's development. When disequilibrium happens, it means the person is frustrated and will try to restore the coherence of his or her cognitive structures through accommodation. If the new information is taken then assimilation of the new information will proceed until they find that they must make a new adjustment to it later down the road, but for now the child remains at equilibrium again. The process of equilibration is when people move from the equilibrium phase to the disequilibrium phase and back into equilibrium.\n\nSchemata about oneself are considered to be grounded in the present and based on past experiences. Memories are framed in the light of one's self-conception. For example, people who have positive self-schemata (i.e. most people) selectively attend to flattering information and selectively ignore unflattering information, with the consequence that flattering information is subject to deeper encoding, and therefore superior recall. Even when encoding is equally strong for positive and negative feedback, positive feedback is more likely to be recalled. Moreover, memories may even be distorted to become more favorable, for example, people typically remember exam grades as having been better than they actually were. However, when people have negative self views, memories are generally biased in ways that validate the negative self-schema; people with low self-esteem, for instance, are prone to remember more negative information about themselves than positive information. Thus, memory tends to be biased in a way that validates the agent's pre-existing self-schema.\n\nThere are three major implications of self-schemata. First, information about oneself is processed faster and more efficiently, especially consistent information. Second, one retrieves and remembers information that is relevant to one's self-schema. Third, one will tend to resist information in the environment that is contradictory to one's self-schema. For instance, students with a particular self-schema prefer roommates whose view of them is consistent with that schema. Students who end up with roommates whose view of them is inconsistent with their self-schema are more likely to try to find a new roommate, even if this view is positive. This is an example of self-verification.\n\nAs researched by Aaron Beck, automatically-activated negative self-schemata are a large contributor to depression. According to Cox, Abramson, Devine, and Hollon (2012), these self-schemata are essentially the same type of cognitive structure as stereotypes studied by prejudice researchers (e.g., they are both well-rehearsed, automatically activated, difficult to change, influential toward behavior, emotions, and judgments, and bias information processing).\n\nThe self-schema can also be self-perpetuating. It can represent a particular role in society that is based on stereotype, for example: \"If a mother tells her daughter she looks like a tom boy, her daughter may react by choosing activities that she imagines a tom boy would do. Conversely, if the mother tells her she looks like a princess, her daughter might choose activities thought to be more feminine.\" This is an example of the self-schema becoming self-perpetuating when the person at hand chooses an activity that was based on an expectation rather than their desires.\n\nSchema therapy was founded by Jeffrey Young and represents a development of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) specifically for treating personality disorders. \"Early maladaptive schemata\" are described by Young as broad and pervasive themes or patterns made up of memories, feelings, sensations, and thoughts regarding oneself and one's relationships with others. They are considered to develop during childhood or adolescence, and to be dysfunctional in that they lead to self-defeating behavior. Examples include schemata of abandonment/instability, mistrust/abuse, emotional deprivation, and defectiveness/shame.\n\nSchema therapy blends CBT with elements of Gestalt therapy, object relations, constructivist and psychoanalytic therapies in order to treat the characterological difficulties which both constitute personality disorders and which underlie many of the chronic depressive or anxiety-involving symptoms which present in the clinic. Young said that CBT may be an effective treatment for presenting symptoms, but without the conceptual or clinical resources for tackling the underlying structures (maladaptive schemata) which consistently organize the patient's experience, the patient is likely to lapse back into unhelpful modes of relating to others and attempting to meet their needs. Young focused on pulling from different therapies equally when developing schema therapy. The difference between cognitive behavioral therapy and schema therapy is the latter \"emphasizes lifelong patterns, affective change techniques, and the therapeutic relationship, with special emphasis on limited reparenting\". He recommended this therapy would be ideal for clients with difficult and chronic psychological disorders. Some examples would be eating disorders and personality disorders. He has also had success with this therapy in relation to depression and substance abuse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1865114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1865114", "title": "Singapore Red Cross", "text": "Singapore Red Cross\n\nThe Singapore Red Cross (SRC) began on 30 September 1949 as part of the British Red Cross Society. On 6 April 1973, the Singapore Red Cross was officially incorporated by the Parliament of Singapore. It was appointed as the National Blood Donor Recruiter by the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) in 2001.\n\nThe governing of SRC is done by a 27- to 33-member council headed by a chairperson who is appointed by the president of the Republic of Singapore, the patron of the SRC. The council is responsible for pursuing the objectives of the SRC as laid down by the act of Parliament and its constitution. The council consults three appointed commissions providing expertise: the Finance Commission, the Legal Commission and the Medical Commission.\n\nThe general management is overseen by the executive committee, with operation responsibilities vested in the Red Cross Youth Division, the Adult Volunteer Division, the Chapters Division, and various standing committees, task forces and resource panels. Implementation of the policies and directives laid down by the council is done by the secretariat, which is headed by the secretary general. Volunteers and staff work together in organising and implementing the activities and programmes of the SRC.\n\n\n\nThe Singapore Red Cross was heavily involved in the relief effort of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami that occurred on December 26, 2004.\n\nOn 8 May 2005, Singapore Red Cross celebrated the 142nd anniversary of the Red Cross movement with the launch of events spanning two months, starting with a blood donation drive at Red Cross House.\n\nOn 26 July 2018, SRC announced S$50,000 in humanitarian aid for victims of the Attapeu dam collapse.\n"}
{"id": "6908288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6908288", "title": "St. Vincent's Medical Center (Bridgeport)", "text": "St. Vincent's Medical Center (Bridgeport)\n\nSt. Vincent's Medical Center is a 397-bed acute care Catholic hospital in Bridgeport, Connecticut.\n\nThe hospital is now controlled by Ascension Health, the nation's largest Catholic and largest nonprofit health system, which is in turn controlled by several religious orders, including the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul which founded St. Vincent's Medical Center.\n\nThe hospital has a medical staff of 450 physicians and has a total of more than 1,800 employees.\n\nSt. Vincent's website says the institution has \"one of the largest angioplasty programs in New England,\" a bariatric surgery center, and extensive cancer and orthopedic services.\n\nThe hospital also has a \"contemporary\" Family Birthing Center with private rooms for labor, delivery and recovery, a private bathroom and sleeping accommodations for the father, and an entertainment center.\n\nPsychiatric services include an on-site psychiatric unit for acute care and the Hall-Brooke Behavioral Health Services (formerly the independent Hall-Brooke Hospital) an inpatient and outpatient behavioral health facility in Westport, Connecticut.\n\nSt. Vincent's is affiliated with Frank H. Netter MD School of Medicine at Quinnipiac University. In 2016 St. Vincent's announced a deal with Veterans Choice Program to provide healthcare to veterans.\n\nSt. Vincent's Medical Center runs St. Vincent's College, which offers associate degrees in General Studies, Medical Assisting, Nursing, and Radiography. St. Vincent's College also offers a Bachelor of Science degree in Radiologic Sciences and a RN to BSN program. \nThe school also offers certificates (less than one year of study) in the following subjects: Central Sterile Processing Technician, Healthcare Management (online), Healthcare Reimbursement Specialist, Health Promotion (online), Hospital Coding Specialist, Medical Assisting, Medical Office Assistant, Multi-Skilled Assistant, Navigator Certificate Program,\nPharmacy Technician and an RN Refresher.\n\nThe hospital was founded by the Daughters of Charity religious order and incorporated on May 19, 1903. Its first building had 75 beds and was built at a cost of $250,000. It opened its doors on June 28, 1905; more than 70 patients were treated by the end of that first day.\n\nOn Easter Sunday, April 17, 1976, a new hospital building opened just behind the original one. That day, William J. Riordan, then president and chief executive officer of the hospital, directed the transfer of 209 patients to the new structure, a building nearly twice the size of the old one.\n\nWhen the move was made to the new building, the hospital's name was changed from St. Vincent's Hospital to St. Vincent's Medical Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50873599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50873599", "title": "Staff (head) gauge", "text": "Staff (head) gauge\n\nA staff (head) gauge is calibrated scale which is used to provide a visual indication of liquid level. When used on an inclined or sloped surface, a staff gauge is usually calibrated so that the indicated level is the true vertical level.\n\nStaff gauges are commonly installed at stream gauging stations to indicate the water stage. They are also used to indicate the water level (and hence flow rate) in open channel primary devices (flumes or weirs).\n\n"}
{"id": "37744064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37744064", "title": "Street workout", "text": "Street workout\n\nStreet workout is a physical activity performed mostly in outdoor parks or public facilities. It originated in Ancient Greece, but became a popular movement in Russia, Eastern Europe, and the United States, especially in New York City, Baltimore's urban neighborhoods and Myanmar. It has now spread all over the world. It is a combination of athletics, calisthenics, and sports. Street workout is a modern name for bodyweight workouts in outdoor parks. Street workout teams and organized competitions exist.\n\nA typical street workout routine often consists of physical exercises such as pull-ups, chin-ups, push-ups, dips, muscle-ups, sit-ups and squats. Street workout also involves some static (isometric) holds such as the human flag, front lever, back lever and planche.\n\nStreet workout is divided in two main branches, the first one being strength training and the second dynamics. Strength training includes the isometric holds like: planche, front lever, back lever, etc. Also, strength training includes single arm pull ups, hefestos, muscle-ups and many others. Dynamics includes movements like 360s and its variations, switchblades, and an incredible variety of tricks developed by the athletes which are connected with other moves in order to create routines or sets.\n\nSome of the main benefits of street workout activities are: \n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century, classic exercises were modified and combined with elements from other sports. The starting point of the whole was New York. Through the sports parks there, people could do their workout without fitness studios. Sport or workout parks consist mostly of different pull-up bars, bars and hammocks, so that training is mainly with one's own body weight.\n\nDifferent groups developed their own style by combining classical calisthenics with exercises from gymnastics, break dance, hip hop and freerunning, or to develop new movements themselves. These groups presented videos of the novel form of calisthenics on the internet and thus triggered a regular boom, especially in Eastern Europe.\n\nIn 2011 the first World Championship for Calisthenics / Street Workout in Riga was held. The WSWCF is the World Street Workout and Calisthenics Federation. Since then, a world championship has been held every year.\n\nAmong the best-known representatives of the modern calisthenics are the groups Barentaz, Baristi, Barstarzz, Bar-Barians and Street Workout Ukraine, and individuals such as Hannibal for King and Frank Medrano.\n\nA typical street workout routine consists of:\nStreet workouts are usually performed outdoor or in specifically designed street workout parks. A typical street workout park looks like a playground with a soft underground and consists of several bars, poles and other objects used for body weight exercises.\nIn street workout, people often create teams.\n\n2011\n\nThe first World Championship took place in Riga, Latvia, August 27–28, 2011.\n\nWinners of Street Workout World Championship 2011 Freestyle category:\n\n1st place: Evgeny Kozyr (Ukraine)\nWinners of Street Workout World Championship 2011 Power category:\n\n1st place: Artjom Shipilo (Latvia)\n\n2nd place: Janis Losevs (Latvia)\n\n3rd place: Deividas Smailys (Lithuania)\n\n2012\n\nIn 2012 the World Championship took place in Riga, Latvia, August 4, 2012.\n\n1st place: Yevgeny Kocherha (Ukraine)\n\n2nd place: Yevgeny Kozyr (Ukraine)\n\n3rd place: Nikolay Labanov (Russia)\n\n2013\n\nThe third World Champion ship was held in Riga, Latvia, August 3, 2013.\n\n1st place: Andzej Zilo (Lithuania)\n\n2nd place: Vadym Oleynik (Ukraine)\n\n3rd place: Akos Szarka (Hungary)\n\n2014\n\nThe fourth World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia, July 26, 2014.\n\n1st place: Eryc Ortiz (France)\n\n2nd place:. Christopher James Luera (USA)\n\n3rd place: Robert Polonski (Lithuania)\n\n2015\n\nThe fifth World Championship took place in Riga, Latvia, April 22, 2015.\n\n1st place: Eryc Ortiz (France)\n\n2nd place: Robert Polonski (Lithuania)\n\n3rd place: Daniel Laizans (Latvia)\n\n2016\n\nThe sixth World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia, July 23, 2016.\n\n1st place: Hassannejad Payam (Iran)\n\n2nd place: Daniels Laizans (Latvia)\n\n3rd place: Viktor Kamenov (Bulgaria)\n\n2017\n\nThe seventh World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia\n\n1st place: Daniels Laizans (Latvia)\n\n2ste place: Viktor Kamenov (Bulgaria)\n\n3ste place: Enghu Mohd Ikhwan (Malaysia)\n\n2018\n\nMEN:\n\nThe eighth World Championship took place in Moscow, Russia, September 7-8, 2018. \n\n1st place: Gohan San (France)\n\n2ste place: Allendes Orellana Victor (Chile)\n\n3ste place: Eroteev Stefan (Bulgaria)\n\nWOMEN:\n\n1st place: Modzelewska Natalia (Poland)\n\n2ste place: Staneva Tzvetelina (Bulgaria)\n\n3ste place: Minten Dineke (Netherlands)\n\nThe World Street Workout and Calisthenics Federation (WSWCF) is a non-governmental and non-profit organisation operating worldwide. It was founded April 8, 2011. WSWCF's main office is located in Riga, Latvia. The current president of the WSWCF is Maris Slezins.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42295440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42295440", "title": "Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency", "text": "Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency\n\nThe Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency (, TLV) is an agency of the Swedish government. It was founded in 2002, and is located on Fleminggatan in Stockholm. TLV's remit is to determine which pharmaceutical products, care-related medical devices and dental care procedures shall be subsidized by the state. It also determine retail margins for all pharmacies in Sweden, regulate the substitution of medicines at the pharmacies and supervise certain areas of the pharmaceutical market.\n\nThe fact that a central government agency has the decision on which pharmaceutical products and medical devices are to be subsidized is partly the result of a goal to make pharmaceutical benefits equal across Sweden.\n\nIt is the Government that decides, via the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, which activities TLV shall undertake.\n\nPharmaceutical companies submit applications for their products to be subsidized and covered by the high-cost threshold, which TLV then makes a decision on. TLV also reviews the pharmaceuticals already covered by the high-cost threshold to see whether or not they should remain so. TLV bases its decisions on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act and takes into account three fundamental principles:\n\nTLV decides on the high-cost threshold for dental care and is responsible for determining which rules apply to dental care benefits. This involves deciding on what is to be subsidized and the reference prices that will apply to various dental treatments. The reference prices are used to calculate the subsidy the patient will receive for various treatments.\n\nTLV is responsible for the regulations concerning how pharmacies exchange more expensive medicines for ones with the same active ingredients but a lower price; the generic exchange. The exchange results in price competition on pharmaceuticals, which frees up several billions of kronor every year. TLV also determines the level of compensation that pharmacies receive for handling prescription products; the pharmacies' trade margin.\n\nIn the matter of whether a medicine or medical device is to be covered by the high-cost threshold, TLV bases its decision on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act. For dental treatment, TLV works from the National Dental Care Subsidy Act.\n\nTLV's own regulations TLVFS are a supplement to the acts and ordinances that govern its activities.\n\nTLV collaborates with expert parties in the fields of medicine, dentistry and finance, as well as with county councils and other authorities active in the sector. There is also an extensive collaboration with various patient organisations and relevant trade organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "33942770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33942770", "title": "The Free Market Cure", "text": "The Free Market Cure\n\nThe Free Market Cure is a series of four short documentary films, each of which tells a separate story about the failure of socialized medicine in each of the subjects' lives. The films focus on the \"single-payer\" system as seen in Canada, the likes of which has been advocated by other filmmakers, like Michael Moore in his film Sicko.\n\nThe series is meant to offer examples of cautionary tales which give cause to question the nature of the effectiveness of socialized medicine, particularly for individuals in the United States, whose government is gradually taking steps towards socializing medicine. \n\nThis film challenges what the filmmaker calls the \"myth\" of the suffering uninsured in America. The film gives several pieces of evidence to support its claims. The film claims that according to the U.S. Census Bureau's 2007 data, 17 million (38%) of the approximately 45 million uninsured people in the U.S. live in households that have incomes greater than $50,000 per year, an amount that Devon Herrick of the National Center for Policy Analysis asserts is high enough that one could reasonably assume that the members of such a household should be able to afford some degree of health insurance coverage. Furthermore, 9 million (20%) of the uninsured, make more than $75,000 per year. Additional demographics that make up a significant portion of the uninsured are the 18 million 18- to 34-year-olds that the film refers to as the \"young invincibles\", who spend four times as much money on alcohol, tobacco, entertainment, and dining out as on out-of-pocket healthcare, as well as the estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S. that the film asserts receive healthcare without being insured.\n\nIn addition to the undocumented immigrants, citizens of other nations can request \"compassionate entry\" at the U.S. border, and be picked up by American ambulances and taken to American hospitals to receive treatment.\n\nHerrick later says that uninsured people in the United States tend to receive 50-60% of the amount of care that insured people do. He says that, effectively, the country is disincentivizing people from paying for their health insurance.\n\nThe short follows a Canadian woman named Janice Fraser, who suffers from a bladder disease that has caused her bladder to be incapable of functioning properly, leading to near constant pain, frequent infections and accompanying high fevers. Janice needed an operation to insert an electrical implant which would stimulate her bladder to function. However, the Canadian specialist that consulted her explained that he was only allowed to perform 12 such operations per year, and that Janice was number 32 on the list and would likely have to wait nearly 3 years for the operation. Janice and her mother offered to pay for the procedure to get it done more quickly, but were turned downed, as this is against Canadian law in the single-payer system. They received little help from their parliamentary representative, nor from George Smitherman, the Ontario Minister of Health, who the film describes as the \"ultimate healthcare gatekeeper for the 12.5 million citizens of Ontario.\" \n\nMeanwhile, Susan Gapka, a male-to-female transsexual, was able to enlist the help of Smitherman and the government in paying for her sex change operation.\n\nWhile she waited for her implant, Janice's constant infections eventually worsened to the point that necessitated the removal of her bladder completely in order to save her life.\n\nLindsay McCreith is a Canadian man who began having serious headaches and eventually suffered a seizure in January 2006. His doctor suspected a brain tumor may be the cause, and recommended that Mr. McCreith get an MRI, but was told that he would have to wait 4 months to get one. Instead of waiting, private medical broker Rick Baker of Timely Medical Alternatives directed McCreith to get an MRI done in the U.S.; he was able to obtain an MRI in Buffalo, NY one day later, and learned that he did indeed have a golf ball-sized mass in his brain. He proceeded with his medical treatments in the U.S. instead of waiting for it in Canada. Baker says that they were able to compress the entire process, from MRI to consultation to biopsy to surgery to 4.5 weeks, and estimated that McCreith might have waited as long as 8 months in Canada - a potentially life-threateningly long wait.\n\nMcCreith attempted to gain reimbursement from the Canadian government of the $28,000 of medical expenses, but was denied because he didn't have the proper permission from the Canadian government to seek treatment abroad, a process of applications and appeals that can last 8 months.\n\nBaker goes on to state that he is weary of the attempts by some Americans to duplicate the Canadian single-payer healthcare system, saying, \"where will I send my clients...you people will be waiting two and three years for surgery, I'll have nowhere to send Canadians.\"\n\n\"The Lemon\" draws parallels between collectivized healthcare systems and the East German Trabant, a noisy, inefficient, underpowered automobile that remained a symbol of communist inefficiency and lack of ingenuity, mostly unchanged for nearly thirty years. East Germans would typically have to wait 8 years to receive their own Trabant, an unappealing vehicle that lacked even basic features, like fuel gauges. \n\nLike East Germans waiting for their Trabants, the movie implies, so too do Canadians like Shirley Healey wait for life-saving treatment. Ms. Healey suffered from mesenteric ischemia, and was unable to obtain prompt treatment, being told she'd have to wait about 2 months. Her doctor, Robert W. Ellett, M.D., having seen another patient with the same condition die after waiting 3 months, urged Ms. Healey to seek medical treatment in the U.S. Dr. Ellett explained that while there were a sufficient number of rooms in the local ICU near her in British Columbia to receive her and other patients after surgery, many of them sit empty, because \"they're not funded rooms.\"\n\nMs. Healey did pay for her operation in Washington, and doctors there found that her artery was nearly completely blocked, a life-threatening condition that would have caused her intestines to perfuse inadequately, leading her to, in essence, starve to death.\n"}
{"id": "48860682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48860682", "title": "The Yoddhas", "text": "The Yoddhas\n\nYoddhas – Indians Fighting Against Cancer is a non-government organisation dedicated to the well-being of cancer patients throughout India.\n\nIt was founded in January 2014 by Rahul Yadav, in the wake of his own diagnosis with multiple myeloma. Initially, the patient-to-patient group consisted of Yadav and other patients he had met at the hospital. As of April 2015, the group has a support base of about 4,000 members. Yoddhas was created as a means to overcome a deficit of strong online support systems in the country. It is a peer-to-peer support group where everyone discusses about their illness and support each other that mainly consists of cancer patients as well as close friends and relatives of people fighting cancer.\n\nYoddhas offers a platform for patients, doctors and Caregivers to connect and help each other. The program also tries to explore and talk about the best ways to help each other. They also promote awareness about Stem Cell Donorship. The Yoddhas support group also focuses on aiding patients with emotional, factual and psychological support. The patient group motivates and inspires each other by sharing health tips, personal stories and initiating discussions. Apart from this, it tries to generate cancer awareness among the youth by involving them in its social campaigns.\n\nThe NGO tried to bring awareness to cancer through a social media campaign called 'Happiness Week', campaigns like their hashtag #YspreadHappiness attempt to generate awareness for the cause which had a reach of 60,000 people across India. It has also collaborated with well-known institutes such as IIM Indore, Symbiosis Institute of Management Studies (SIMS) and Delhi University to carry out social awareness activities such as Nukkad Natak (street play). The group has its presence in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru and Kolkata as of January 2015.\n\nYoddhas – Indians Fighting Against Cancer was awarded the second prize in the Best Project category of the UNESCO Youth Citizen Entrepreneurship Competition in the year 2014, in Berlin. It also received the People's Choice Award under the Best Project's Category in the same competition.\n\nhttp://paper.hindustantimes.com/epaper/iphone/showpage.aspx?issue=10872016122500000000001001&page=6&returnUrl=http%253a%252f%252fpaper.hindustantimes.com%252fepaper%252fiphone%252fhomepage.aspx%2523_title10872016122500000000001001%252fwatitle10872016122500000000001001%252f1087%252f10872016122500000000001001%252f6%252ftrue&x=0.3713355048859935&y=0.3744493392070485"}
{"id": "23607619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23607619", "title": "Water banking", "text": "Water banking\n\nWater banking is the practice of forgoing water deliveries during certain periods, and “banking” either the right to use the forgone water in the future, or saving it for someone else to use in exchange for a fee or delivery in kind. It is usually used where there is significant storage capacity to facilitate such transfers of water.\n\nIn Spain water banking was given a legislative basis by the 1999 Water Law. The socialist government elected in 2004 planned to create a public water bank in each hydrographical basin as part of its AGUA programme. This would allow historical water resources to be re-allocated according to \"criteria of equity, efficiency, and sustainability\".\n\nIn the United States, water banking is typically regulated and managed at the state level.\n"}
{"id": "33131132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33131132", "title": "Women in dentistry", "text": "Women in dentistry\n\nThere is a long history of women in dentistry.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
