{"id": "8339167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8339167", "title": "Abd al-Qadir II", "text": "Abd al-Qadir II\n\nAbd al-Qadir II was a ruler of the Kingdom of Sennar (1603/4 - 1606). According to James Bruce, he was the son of Unsa I, whom Bruce describes as \"a weak and ill-inclined man\" While he was ruler of Sennar, Emperor Susenyos of Ethiopia sent to Abd al-Qadir a \"nagarit\", or kettle-drum, richly decorated with gold, which was one of the traditional emblems of an Ethiopian negus or king; in return, Abd al-Qadir sent Susenyos a trained hunting falcon. Shortly after this diplomatic exchange, he was deposed by his brother Adlan.\n\nAt some point following his deposition from the throne in 1606, Emperor Susenyos of Ethiopia appointed him governor of Chilga (also known as Ayikel), an important market town near the Ethiopian border with Sennar.\n"}
{"id": "30864767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864767", "title": "Abu Hudhayfa ibn 'Utba", "text": "Abu Hudhayfa ibn 'Utba\n\nAbu Hudhayfa ibn Utbah (Arabic: أبو حذيفة بن عتبة; died 633), full name Abu Hudhayfa ibn Utbah ibn Rabi'ah was an early companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. He was the son of Utbah ibn Rabi'ah, one of the Leaders of Banu Abd Shams. He was the brother of Walid ibn Utbah and Hind bint Utbah, the wife of Abu Sufyan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57182965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57182965", "title": "Archaeal initiation factors", "text": "Archaeal initiation factors\n\nArchaeal initiation factors are proteins that are used during the translation step of protein synthesis in archaea. The principal functions these proteins perform include ribosome RNA/mRNA recognition, delivery of the initiator Met-tRNA, methionine bound tRNAi, to the 40s ribosome, and proofreading of the initiation complex.\n\nOf the three domains of life, archaea, eukaryotes, and bacteria, the number of archaeal TIFs is somewhere between eukaryotes and bacteria; eukaryotes have the largest number of TIFs, and bacteria, having streamlined the process, have only three TIFs. Not only are archaeal TIF numbers between that of bacteria and eukaryote numbers, but archaeal initiation factors are seen to have both traits of eukaryotic and prokaryotic intiation factors. Two core TIFs, IF1/IF1A and IF2/IF5B are conserved across the three domains of life. There is also a semi-universal TIF found in all archaea and eukaryote called IF1/SUI1, but only in certain bacterial species (YciH). In archeaes and eukaryotes, these TIFs help correct the identification of the intiation codon, while its function is unknown in bacteria. Just between eukaryote and archaea, a/eIF2 (trimer) and aIF6 in archaeas are conserved in eukaryotes as eIF2(trimer) and eIF6 TIFs.\n\nAIF1 plays a role in occupying the ribosomal A site, helping the unambiguous placement of tRNAi in the P site of in the large ribosomal subunit.\n\nThe main function of archaeal IF2 is to join the ribosomal subunits (small and large) to form the complete single (monomeric) mRNA bound ribosome unit in the late stages of initiation.\n\nThe a/eIF2 binds to the 40S small subunit of the ribosome to help guide the start translation of mRNA into proteins.\n"}
{"id": "1670693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1670693", "title": "Biollante", "text": "Biollante\n\nBiollante first appears in the 1989 film \"Godzilla vs. Biollante\". After Godzilla's return in 1984, Dr. Genshiro Shiragami attempts to use the monster's cells to genetically enhance various species of plants to create crops resistant to harsh weather. His attempts are initially thwarted when a bomb destroys his laboratory and kills his daughter Erika. Shiragami splices her DNA with that of a rose, which is nearly destroyed five years later by an earthquake. Hoping to make the rose immortal, he further splices its DNA with those of Godzilla, resulting in the creation of a hybrid mutant he christens Biollante. The creature roots itself into Lake Ashino, where it begins calling out to its progenitor Godzilla. Godzilla arrives and incinerates Biollante, whose spores float into the atmosphere. The spores later land near Osaka in the form of a much more Godzilla-like Biollante, who fights Godzilla to a standstill until the latter retreats after being weakened by the Anti-Nuclear Energy Bacteria. Biollante subsequently dissolves again and floats into space, with an image of Erika being seen among the spores.\n\nThe creature makes a brief cameo appearance in \"Godzilla vs. SpaceGodzilla\", where it is speculated that its cells floating in space may have contributed to the creation of the monster SpaceGodzilla.\n\nBiollante was first conceived by dentist Shinichiro Kobayashi, who was the winner of a story writing contest for a sequel to \"The Return of Godzilla\". In developing the character, Kobayashi kept in mind how he would feel if his daughter died, and combined this with a mental image he had consisting of Godzilla being consumed by a flower. His idea of Biollante's origins was not too different from those of the final film, though the creature was portrayed in his submission as having no direct link to Godzilla, and of having human-level intelligence, as well as maintaining the memories of Erika. The draft's portrayal of the character had her psychically communicating with a reporter via images of flowers with human faces, and the final Biollante creature had a woman's face.\n\nKoichi Kawakita, who had previously worked for Tsuburaya Productions, was assigned to designing and realizing Biollante by Toho after the company became impressed at his work in \"Gunhed\". Kawakita made use of \"Gunhed\"'s special effects team Studio OX, though designing and building the Biollante props proved problematic, as traditional suitmation techniques made realizing the requested design of the creature's first form difficult, and the resulting cumbersome model for Biollante's final form was met with disbelief from the special effects team. Biollante's first form was performed by Masao Takegami, who sat within the model's trunk area on a platform just above water level. While the creature's head movements were simple to operate, its vines were controlled by an intricate array of overhead wires which proved difficult for Godzilla performer Kenpachiro Satsuma to react to during combat scenes as they offered no tension, thus warranting Satsuma to feign receiving blows from them, despite not being able to perceive them. Creature designer Shinji Nishikawa originally designed Biollante's head as much more flowerlike, with four petal-like jaws, though the film's producers insisted on a more reptilian head. Biollante's final form proved even more difficult to operate than the previous model, as its vine network took hours to rig up on set and required 32 wires to operate, far more than required to operate King Ghidorah in the following film. Visibility in the final form Biollante suit was poor, thus causing difficulties for Takegami in aiming the creature's head when firing sap, which permanently stained anything it landed on.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58685900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58685900", "title": "Bioresilience", "text": "Bioresilience\n\nBioresilience refers to the ability of a whole species or an individual of a species to adapt to change. Initially the term applied to changes in the natural environment, but increasingly it is also used for adaptation to anthropogenically induced change.\n\nAlexander von Humboldt was the first to note the resilience of life forms with increasing altitude and the accompanying decreasing prevalence in numbers, and he documented this in the 18th century on the slopes of the volcano Chimborazo.\n\nUnderstanding of bioresilience evolved from research led by The Mountain Institute when establishing two of the national parks that surround Mount Everest, Makalu-Barun National Park in Nepal, and Qomolangma National Nature Preserve in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China. The research documented greater biodiversity at Everest’s base than higher up. There were progressively fewer documented species as the mountain ascended into higher biomes, from subtropical to temperate to alpine to Arctic-like. These fewer species, though, had greater biologic robustness correlating directly with increasing bioresilience. \n\nMonitoring of bioresilience, beginning in the Everest ecosystem but expanding to other mountain ecologies globally is being carried out by the Biomeridian Project at Future Generations University.\n\nThe concept of bioresilience has also been applied to human health to explain aging or chronic diseases decrease the ability of the body to adapt; in such cases, the system becomes rigid and unable to cross different life demands. As the human body loses robustness with age, an individual becomes unable to accommodate new life demands, be they contagions, stress, or events such as injury or even jet lag.\n\nThe importance of resilience in biological systems has been widely recognized in terms of the impacts on life by anthropogenic changes. Accelerating environmental change and continuing loss of genetic resources positions lower biodiversity around the planet threatening ecosystem services. A major mitigating factor will be life forms with higher resilience. \n\nParalleling the work in mountain environments, a growing number of studies is applying the concept of bioresilience to assess the robustness of life in other ecological systems challenged by the Anthropocene. One such study was with the adaptive renewal and natural perturbation in Lake Victoria, the world’s second largest freshwater lake.\n"}
{"id": "16683816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16683816", "title": "Bobby Black (footballer)", "text": "Bobby Black (footballer)\n\nBobby Black (c.1927 – 4 June 2012) was a Scottish footballer from Thornhill, Dumfries and Galloway who played for East Fife and Queen of the South and was also capped by the Scottish League. Black later was an all England bowls champion.\n\nHaving played at East Fife during undoubtedly the best period in the club's history Black won a League Cup medal with them in 1949–50. The Methil side made the Scottish Cup final that season and finished fourth in Scotland's top division. Two seasons later (Bobby Black's last at the club) they would surpass this league position and finish third – an achievement unsurpassed by the club and equalled only once.\n\nOther players at the club in this era included 1938 Scottish Cup winners with East Fife Tommy Adams and Willie Laird and players who played for Scotland while with the club, Allan Brown, Henry Morris, George Aitken, Davie Duncan, Charlie Fleming and Andy Matthew. Jimmy Philp was another like Black who enjoyed Scottish League Cup success with the Methil club.\n\nFrom his first year playing for East Fife, the 1946-47 season, until his departure in 1952, Black scored 23 goals in 78 league matches.\n\nIn 1952, Black signed for his local senior club Queen of the South in Dumfries. Black departed the Dumfries club in 1961 after 346 appearances and 120 goals scored. Black is the third highest all-time goalscorer for the club, behind Jim Patterson with 251 goals and current Queens striker Stephen Dobbie who is currently on 137 goals. \n\nUnder the management of Jimmy McKinnell Junior at Queens, a large part of Black's career at Queens included a large part of the most successful period in the club's history. Also at Queens at this time were goalkeeper Roy Henderson, full backs Dougie Sharpe and Jimmy Binning and the club's record scorer (251 strikes makes Jim Patterson the goals king of Queens). Consistent mid table finishes in the top division in the early and mid 1950s peaked with a sixth-place finish in 1956 – a finish surpassed only once in the club's history. Queen's were subsequently relegated to the Scottish Second Division in 1959.\n\nBobby Black's displays at outside right were recognised at international level when he was capped for the Scottish League XI against the League of Ireland XI in Dublin in 1954 and notched two goals in a 3–1 victory. Black's son, young Bobby, played for Queen of the South between 1971 and 1973 making 35 appearances and scoring four goals. Bobby's other son Russell was also a footballer, playing for Sheffield United and Halifax Town. In his two seasons at Halifax he scored 14 goals in 72 league appearances.\n\nHis grandson Jamie Paterson was also a footballer who played for Scunthorpe United, Halifax Town and Doncaster Rovers in the senior ranks and with Barrow in non-league football.\n\nBlack played his entire career wearing the same pair of football boots. Black's preference was to have his boots repaired rather than replacing them. The boots are now on display in the Doonhamers Museum at Palmerston Park.\n\nAfter leaving Queen of the South Black played non-league football for Bath City and Bridgwater Town in England. In his later years he lived in Somerset until he died on 4 June 2012 aged 85.\n\nBlack's great-grandson is the Greenock Morton striker Denny Johnstone.\n\n"}
{"id": "3251004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3251004", "title": "Body donation", "text": "Body donation\n\nBody donation, anatomical donation, or body bequest is the donation of a whole body after death for research and education. Donated bodies are mostly used for medical education and research. They are used for gross anatomy, surgical anatomy and for furthering medical education. For years, only medical schools accepted bodies for donation, but now private programs also accept donors. Depending on the program's need for body donation, some programs accept donors with different specifications.\n\nBody donation is important for understanding the human body and for making advancements in science. There is usually no cost to donate a body to science; donation programs will often provide a stipend and/or cover the cost of cremation or burial once a donated cadaver has served its purpose and is returned to the family for interment. \n\nAny person wishing to donate their body may do so through a willed body program. The donor may be required, but not always, to make prior arrangements with the local medical school, university, or body donation program before death. Individuals may request a consent form, and will be supplied information about policies and procedures that will take place after the potential donor is deceased.\n\nAnatomical donation is still relatively rare, and in attempts to increase these donations, many countries have instituted programs and regulations surrounding the donation of cadavers or body parts. For example, in some states within the United States and for academic-based programs, a person must make the decision to donate their remains themselves prior to death; the decision cannot be made by a power of attorney. If a person decides not to donate their whole body, or they are unable to, there are other forms of donation via which one can contribute their body to science after death, such as organ donation and tissue donation.\n\nMany religions show support for anatomical donations. The Hindu, Buddhist, Muslim, and Christian, religions all support the idea of body donation and/or organ donation for the betterment of the world. The support of these religions is critical in many parts of the world as many people actively practice these religions.\n\nIn 1948, the Anatomy Act was passed in all of India’s states. This allows bodies to be donated by the donor and bodies to be claimed for medical and research use if there is no claim to one’s body within a 48-hour timeframe. Similar to the US, India also has specific guidelines for accepting bodies for donations. Donations that are not deemed suitable include bodies with HIV/AIDS, hepatitis (A, B, and C), donated organs, extreme BMI, or skin diseases.\n\nSome leaders have donated their bodies for medical research, such as communist leader Jyoti Basu and Jana Sangh leader Nanaji Deshmukh. Nowadays, many people in India donate their bodies after death by signing a pledge form with two accompanying witness signatures.\n\nBody donation in the UK is governed by the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) under the auspices of the Human Tissue Act 2004. The HTA licenses and inspects establishments, such as medical schools, which teach anatomy using donated bodies. Under the Human Tissue Act, written consent must be given prior to death; consent cannot be given by anyone else after death.\n\nThe Human Tissue Authority provides information to donors about where they can donate and answers many prevalent questions related to tissue donation on their website. The Human Tissue Authority provides the links to each establishment’s information, but each establishment has its own guidelines for body donation. The HTA also provides the tools to find donation sites local to the person wishing to donate their body, or tissues.\n\nAlthough most establishments accept most donations, donors who have had an autopsy may be declined from a program. Certain programs also may decline bodies of donors who have died abroad.\n\nOnly the legal next-of-kin of the deceased can provide the necessary consent for donation if the donor did not provide it to the specific accepting program prior to death.\n\nBody donation is not regulated through licensure and inspection by the federal government and most states. However, United States House Bill 5318 was introduced on July 31, 2014 under the Energy and Commerce Committee. If passed as written, Health and Human Services would oversee the industry. Any entity (including U.S. Medical Schools) are subject to this legislation if tissue crosses state lines.\n\nBody brokers (or non-transplant tissue banks) engage in the acquisition of cadavers, often via offers of free cremation, and then subsequently process the cadaver and resell body parts in a largely unregulated national market.\n\nThe legal right for an individual to choose body donation is governed by the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act, which has been largely adopted by most states. Laws relating to the transportation and disposition of human bodies currently apply, regardless of the recent House Bill introduced.\n\nThe American Association of Tissue Banks (AATB) provides accreditation to non-transplant tissue bank research and education programs to establish that the level of medical, technical, and administrative performance meets or exceeds the standards set by the AATB. Whole body donation and non-transplant tissue banking remains an industry with limited regulation, and while it is not a legal requirement, accreditation allows for individuals choosing to donate their body to medical research or education programs to choose a program with the highest quality standards.\n\nThe American Medical Education and Research Association (AMERA) is a peer-recognized national accrediting body in the United States that provides accreditation to organizations using standards developed solely for non-transplant organizations. This includes whole body donor organizations, university anatomical programs, bio-repository programs, and end users of human tissue. AMERA encourages the industry to become accredited and involved in establishing standards that are relevant to non-clinical tissue organizations.\n\nMany medical programs in the United States now hold student-led memorial services for the donated bodies. This is to show respect for the donors and their families, and to shine a positive light on the process of body donation.\n\nThere are many private body donation programs in the US. Each of these private programs accepts bodies from certain surrounding areas. Most programs also have guidelines for bodies they will and will not accept. Generally, programs will not accept bodies that are positive for Hepatitis (A, B, and C), HIV/AIDS, history of illegal drug use, or fall within an extreme category for their BMI. The embalming process adds even more weight to a donor's body, so if they have a high BMI the programs may not take them because they cannot handle the weight of the donor after embalming. If a donor has a specific disease prior to death, which is not contagious, and would like to be a part of a program’s study they may contact that research program specifically.\n\nBody disposal and donation are regulated by the \"Bestattungsgesetze\" (funeral laws) of the states. In Germany, the right to autonomy extends beyond death, as a result of which the instructions given by a deceased during their lifetime must be respected when dealing with their body. A body donation can only take place if the deceased signed a declaration of last will in their lifetime, stating the intention of donating their body to an anatomical institute. Relatives of the deceased can neither give permission nor deny body donation against said declaration, the institute however may deny the body. Denial of the body may occur if it carries infectious diseases, has had organs or body parts removed for donation or surgery, is gravely injured or otherwise unfit for teaching, if the body is located too far away from the institute or for reasons of storage capacity. Most institutes require an advance fee to be deposited to pay for funeral costs. \n\nThe decision to become a body donor is influenced by factors such as: social awareness, cultural attitudes and perceptions of body donation, cultural attitudes and perceptions of death, religion, and perceptions of the body-mind relationship. Studies indicate most donors are primarily driven by altruism and their desire to aid the advancement of medical knowledge and to be useful after death. Other reasons include helping future generations, expressing gratitude for life and good health or for the medical field, to avoid a funeral or to avoid waste.\n\nThe offering of financial incentives as a way to increase donor numbers or as an acknowledgement for donors is generally considered to detract from the act of donation and serve as a deterrent. However, a US study showing a positive correlation between body donation numbers and funeral cover cost savings offered as compensation suggests that, in reality, the added incentive could be a persuasive factor for donors.\n\nBodies donated to any organization are used for scientific research and medical training. Bodies are used to teach medical students anatomy, but they are also used to improve and create new medical technologies. Many programs that accept body donations have specific research affiliations, these can be viewed by looking at each programs website. These can include cancer research, Alzheimer’s research, and research into improving surgeries.\n\nListed below are examples of research conducted with donated bodies:\n\nSome programs accept whole bodies but distribute different body parts based on need. This ensures a maximum benefit from each donation. These programs can assist with research as shown above, technical training, or improvement/research of medical devices.\n\nAfter bodies are accepted for donation, a timeframe of six months to three years is expected before the donor's body will be returned to the family. This takes into account embalming, research, and the number of bodies the program has access to at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1166059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1166059", "title": "Boltzmann machine", "text": "Boltzmann machine\n\nA Boltzmann machine (also called stochastic Hopfield network with hidden units) is a type of stochastic recurrent neural network (and Markov random field). \n\nBoltzmann machines can be seen as the stochastic, generative counterpart of Hopfield nets. They were one of the first neural networks capable of learning internal representations, and are able to represent and (given sufficient time) solve difficult combinatoric problems. \n\nThey are theoretically intriguing because of the locality and Hebbian nature of their training algorithm, and because of their parallelism and the resemblance of their dynamics to simple physical processes. Boltzmann machines with unconstrained connectivity have not proven useful for practical problems in machine learning or inference, but if the connectivity is properly constrained, the learning can be made efficient enough to be useful for practical problems.\n\nThey are named after the Boltzmann distribution in statistical mechanics, which is used in their sampling function. That's why they are called as Energy Based Models(EBM). They were invented in 1985 by Geoffrey Hinton, then a Professor at Carnegie Mellon University, and Terry Sejnowski, then a Professor at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nA Boltzmann machine, like a Hopfield network, is a network of units with an \"energy\" defined for the overall network. Its units produce results. Unlike Hopfield nets, Boltzmann machine units are stochastic. The global energy, formula_1, in a Boltzmann machine is identical in form to that of a Hopfield network:\n\nWhere:\n\nOften the weights, formula_3, are represented as a symmetric matrix formula_13, with zeros along the diagonal.\n\nThe difference in the global energy that results from a single unit formula_5 equaling 0 (off) versus 1 (on), written formula_15, assuming a symmetric matrix of weights, is given by:\n\nSubstituting the energy of each state with its relative probability according to the Boltzmann factor (the property of a Boltzmann distribution that the energy of a state is proportional to the negative log probability of that state) gives:\n\nwhere formula_18 is Boltzmann's constant and is absorbed into the artificial notion of temperature formula_19. We then rearrange terms and consider that the probabilities of the unit being on and off must sum to one:\n\nSolving for formula_26, the probability that the formula_5-th unit is on gives:\n\nwhere the scalar formula_19 is referred to as the temperature of the system. This relation is the source of the logistic function found in probability expressions in variants of the Boltzmann machine.\n\nThe network runs by repeatedly choosing a unit and resetting its state. After running for long enough at a certain temperature, the probability of a global state of the network depends only upon that global state's energy, according to a Boltzmann distribution, and not on the initial state from which the process was started. This means that log-probabilities of global states become linear in their energies. This relationship is true when the machine is \"at thermal equilibrium\", meaning that the probability distribution of global states has converged. Running the network beginning from a high temperature, its temperature gradually decreases until reaching a thermal equilibrium at a lower temperature. It then may converge to a distribution where the energy level fluctuates around the global minimum. This process is called simulated annealing.\n\nTo train the network so that the chance it will converge to a global state is according to an external distribution over these states, the weights must be set so that the global states with the highest probabilities get the lowest energies. This is done by training.\n\nThe units in the Boltzmann machine are divided into 'visible' units, V, and 'hidden' units, H. The visible units are those that receive information from the 'environment', i.e. the training set is a set of binary vectors over the set V. The distribution over the training set is denoted formula_30. \nAs is discussed above, the distribution over global states converges as the Boltzmann machine reaches thermal equilibrium. We denote this distribution, after we marginalize it over the hidden units, as formula_31.\n\nOur goal is to approximate the \"real\" distribution formula_30 using the formula_31 produced (eventually) by the machine. To measure how similar the two distributions are, the Kullback–Leibler divergence, formula_34 is\n\nwhere the sum is over all the possible states of formula_36. formula_34 is a function of the weights, since they determine the energy of a state, and the energy determines formula_38, as promised by the Boltzmann distribution. Hence, we can use a gradient descent algorithm over formula_34, so a given weight, formula_3 is changed by subtracting the partial derivative of formula_34 with respect to the weight.\n\nThere are two alternating phases to Boltzmann machine training. One is the \"positive\" phase where the visible units' states are clamped to a particular binary state vector sampled from the training set (according to formula_42). The other is the \"negative\" phase where the network is allowed to run freely, i.e. no units have their state determined by external data. Surprisingly enough, the gradient with respect to a given weight, formula_3, is given by the simple proven equation:\n\nwhere:\n\nThis result follows from the fact that at thermal equilibrium the probability formula_48 of any global state formula_49 when the network is free-running is given by the Boltzmann distribution (hence the name \"Boltzmann machine\").\n\nRemarkably, this learning rule is fairly biologically plausible because the only information needed to change the weights is provided by \"local\" information. That is, the connection (or synapse biologically speaking) does not need information about anything other than the two neurons it connects. This is far more biologically realistic than the information needed by a connection in many other neural network training algorithms, such as backpropagation.\n\nThe training of a Boltzmann machine does not use the EM algorithm, which is heavily used in machine learning. \nBy minimizing the KL-divergence, it is equivalent to maximizing the log-likelihood of the data. Therefore, the training procedure performs gradient ascent on the log-likelihood of the observed data. This is in contrast to the EM algorithm, where the posterior distribution of the hidden nodes must be calculated before the maximization of the expected value of the complete data likelihood during the M-step.\n\nTraining the biases is similar, but uses only single node activity:\n\nThe Boltzmann machine would theoretically be a rather general computational medium. For instance, if trained on photographs, the machine would theoretically model the distribution of photographs, and could use that model to, for example, complete a partial photograph.\n\nUnfortunately, there is a serious practical problem with the Boltzmann machine, namely that it seems to stop learning correctly when the machine is scaled up to anything larger than a trivial machine. This is due to a number of effects, the most important of which are:\n\n\nAlthough learning is impractical in general Boltzmann machines, it can be made quite efficient in \nan architecture called the \"restricted Boltzmann machine\" or \"RBM\" which does not allow intralayer connections between hidden units. After training one RBM, the activities of its hidden units can be treated as data for training a higher-level RBM. This method of stacking RBMs makes it possible to train many layers of hidden units efficiently and is one of the most common deep learning strategies. As each new layer is added the overall generative model gets better.\n\nThere is an extension to the restricted Boltzmann machine that affords using real valued data rather than binary data. Along with higher order Boltzmann machines, it is outlined here .\n\nOne example of a practical application of Restricted Boltzmann machines is the performance improvement of speech recognition software.\n\nA deep Boltzmann machine (DBM) is a type of binary pairwise Markov random field (undirected probabilistic graphical model) with multiple layers of hidden random variables. It is a network of symmetrically coupled stochastic binary units. It comprises a set of visible units formula_51 and layers of hidden units formula_52. No connection links units of the same layer (like RBM). For the , the probability assigned to vector is\nwhere formula_54 are the set of hidden units, and formula_55 are the model parameters, representing visible-hidden and hidden-hidden interactions. In a DBN only the top two layers form a restricted Boltzmann machine (which is an undirected graphical model), while lower layers form a directed generative model. In a DBM all layers are symmetric and undirected.\n\nLike DBNs, DBMs can learn complex and abstract internal representations of the input in tasks such as object or speech recognition, using limited, labeled data to fine-tune the representations built using a large supply of unlabeled sensory input data. However, unlike DBNs and deep convolutional neural networks, they adopt the inference and training procedure in both directions, bottom-up and top-down pass, which allow the Deep Boltzmann machine to better unveil the representations of the input structures.\n\nHowever, the slow speed of DBMs limits their performance and functionality. Because exact maximum likelihood learning is intractable for DBMs, only approximate maximum likelihood learning is possible. Another option is to use mean-field inference to estimate data-dependent expectations and approximate the expected sufficient statistics by using \"Markov chain Monte Carlo\" \"(MCMC)\". This approximate inference, which must be done for each test input, is about 25 to 50 times slower than a single bottom-up pass in DBMs. This makes joint optimization impractical for large data sets, and restricts the use of DBMs for tasks such as feature representation.\n\nThe Boltzmann machine is a Monte Carlo version of the Hopfield network.\n\nThe idea of using stochastic weights in Ising models considered by:\n\nHowever, in cognitive sciences, it is often thought to have been first described by:\n\nHowever, it should be noted that these articles appeared after the seminal publication by John Hopfield, where the connection to physics and statistical mechanics was made in the first place, mentioning spin glasses:\n\n\nThe idea of applying the Ising model with annealed Gibbs sampling is also present in Douglas Hofstadter's Copycat project:\n\n\nSimilar ideas (with a change of sign in the energy function) are also found in Paul Smolensky's \"Harmony Theory\".\n\nThe explicit analogy drawn with statistical mechanics in the Boltzmann Machine formulation led to the use of terminology borrowed from physics (e.g., \"energy\" rather than \"harmony\"), which has become standard in the field. The widespread adoption of this terminology may have been encouraged by the fact that its use led to the importation of a variety of concepts and methods from statistical mechanics.\nHowever, there is no reason to think that the various proposals to use simulated annealing for inference described above were not independent.\n\nIsing models are now considered to be a special case of Markov random fields, which find widespread application in various fields, including linguistics, robotics, computer vision, and artificial intelligence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2142076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2142076", "title": "Cadena temporal", "text": "Cadena temporal\n\nCadena temporal and cadena perpetua were legal punishments. Cadena temporal included imprisonment for at least 12 years and one day, in chains, at hard and painful labor; the loss of many basic civil rights; and subjection to lifetime surveillance. Cadena perpetua is identical except that it is a sentence of life as opposed to a temporary status.\n\nThe \"title\" of the punishment is actually descriptive, as \"cadena\" is a Spanish word meaning chain while temporal means impermanent or temporary, in addition to the meaning it shares with English and \"perpetua\", means continuous in Latin and Spanish.\n\nOne of the places these punishments were provided for was the Philippine legal system. This was a result of the Spanish Penal Code of 1870, which was adopted due to the country having been a Spanish colony until 1898. Cadena temporal was among the penalties repealed in 1932 with the enactment of the Revised Penal Code of the Philippines.\n\nThe use of this colonial punishment has been reviewed by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Weems v. United States\", 217 U.S. 349 (1910). Derived from the Spanish penal Code, the punishment of \"cadena temporal\" was from twelve years and one day to twenty years (arts. 28 and 96), which 'shall be served' in certain 'penal institutions.' And it was provided that 'those sentenced to cadena temporal (and cadena perpetua) shall labor for the benefit of the state. They shall always carry a chain at the ankle, hanging from the wrists; they shall be employed at hard and painful labor, and shall receive no assistance whatsoever from without the institution.' There were, besides, certain accessory penalties imposed with it.\n\nIn Weems, the Supreme Court ruled this punishment to be \"cruel and unusual\" for a crime of \"corruptly, and with intent then and there to deceive and defraud the United States government of the Philippine Islands and its officials, falsify[ing] a public and official document.\" \"Weems v. United\" States breaks away with the \"historic method\" of interpretation of the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibiting such penalties. It thus paves the way to a modern interpretation of the Bill of Rights based on a new criterion: the \"evolving standards of decency of a maturing society\" designed by the Supreme Court in Trop v. Dulles, 356 U. S. 86 (1957) .\n"}
{"id": "13400667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13400667", "title": "Clarence Barr", "text": "Clarence Barr\n\nClarence Barr (June 8, 1876 – June 1968) was an American actor of the silent era. He appeared in 90 films between 1912 and 1918.\n\nHe was born in Omaha, Nebraska.\n\n"}
{"id": "19864858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19864858", "title": "Common coding theory", "text": "Common coding theory\n\nCommon coding theory is a cognitive psychology theory describing how perceptual representations (e.g. of things we can see and hear) and motor representations (e.g. of hand actions) are linked. The theory claims that there is a shared representation (a common code) for both perception and action. More important, seeing an event activates the action associated with that event, and performing an action activates the associated perceptual event.\n\nThe idea of direct perception-action links originates in the work of the American psychologist William James and more recently, American neurophysiologist and Nobel prize winner Roger Sperry. Sperry argued that the perception–action cycle is the fundamental logic of the nervous system. Perception and action processes are functionally intertwined: perception is a means to action and action is a means to perception. Indeed, the vertebrate brain has evolved for governing motor activity with the basic function to transform sensory patterns into patterns of motor coordination.\n\nThe classical approach to cognition is a 'sandwich' model which assumes three stages of information processing: perception, cognition and then action. In this model, perception and action do not interact directly, instead cognitive processing is needed to convert perceptual representations into action. For example, this might require creating arbitrary linkages (mapping between sensory and motor codes).\n\nIn contrast, the common coding account claims that perception and action are directly linked by a common computational code.\n\nThis theory, put forward by German scientist Wolfgang Prinz and his colleagues from the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, claims parity between perception and action. Its core assumption is that actions are coded in terms of the perceivable effects (i.e., the distal perceptual events) they should generate. This theory also states that perception of an action should activate action representations to the degree that the perceived and the represented action are similar. Such a claim suggests that we represent observed, executed and imagined actions in a commensurate manner and makes specific predictions regarding the nature of action and perceptual representations. First, representations for observed and executed actions should rely on a shared neural substrate. Second, a common cognitive system predicts facilitation of action based on directly prior perception and vice versa. Third, such a system predicts interference effects when action and perception attempt to access shared representations simultaneously.\n\nIn the past decade, a growing number of results have been interpreted in favor of the common coding theory.\n\nFor instance, one functional MRI study demonstrated that the brain's response to the 2/3 power law of motion (i.e., which dictates a strong coupling between movement curvature and velocity) is much stronger and more widespread than to other types of motion. Compliance with this law was reflected in the activation of a large network of brain areas subserving motor production, visual motion processing, and action observation functions. These results support the common coding and the notion of similar neural coding for motion perception and production.\n\nOne of the most direct evidence for common coding in the brain now stems from the fact that pattern classifiers that can differentiate based on brain activity whether someone has performed action A or B can also classify, above chance, whether that person heard the sound of action A or B, thereby demonstrating that action execution and perception are represented using a common code. Further support originates in EEG studies investigating the physiological substrate of perception and action in cognitive tasks. Segregating cortical activity by an independent component analysis (ICA) consistently reveals component relating to the processing of sensory stimuli and simultaneously to generating appropriate motor responses. This provides evidence for a common code involved in the whole perception-action loop. \n\nRecently, the common coding theory received increased interest from researchers in developmental psychology, cognitive neuroscience, robotics, and social psychology.\n\nCommon coding posits, on top of separate coding, further domains of representation in which afferent and efferent information share the same format and dimensionality of representation. Common coding refers to 'late' afferent representations (referring to events in the environment) and 'early' efferent representations (referring to intended events). Such representations are commensurate since they both exhibit distal reference. They permit creating linkages between perception and action that do not rely on arbitrary mappings. Common coding conceives action planning in terms of operations that determine intended future events from given current events (matching between event codes and action codes). In particular perception and action may modulate each other by virtue of similarity. Unlike rule-based mapping of incommensurate codes which requires preceding acquisition of mapping rules, similarity-based matching of commensurate codes requires no such preceding rule acquisition.\n\nIn line with the ideomotor theory of William James (1890) and Hermann Lotze (1852), the common coding theory posits that actions are represented in terms of their perceptual consequences. Actions are represented like any other events, the sole distinctive feature being that they are (or can be) generated through bodily movements. Perceivable action consequences may vary on two major dimensions: resident vs. remote effects, and 'cool' versus 'hot' outcomes (i.e., reward values associated with action outcomes).\n\nWhen individuals perform actions they learn what their movements lead to (Ideomotor learning). The ideomotor theory claims that these associations can also be used in the reverse order (cf. William James, 1890 II, p. 526): When individuals perceive events of which they know (from previous learning) that they may result from certain movements, perception of these events may evoke the movements leading to them (Ideomotor control). The distinction between learning and control is equivalent to the distinction between forward and inverse computation in motor learning and control. Ideomotor learning supports prediction and anticipation of action outcomes, given current action. Ideomotor control supports selection and control of action, given intended outcomes.\n\nWhile most traditional approaches tend to stress the relative independence of perception and action, some theories have argued for closer links. Motor theories of speech and action perception have made a case for motor contributions to perception. Close non-representational connections between perception and action have also been claimed by ecological approaches.\nToday common coding theory is closely related to research and theory in two intersecting fields of study: Mirror neurons systems and embodied cognition. As concerns mirror systems, common coding seems to reflect the functional logic of mirror neurons and mechanisms in the brain. As concerns embodied cognition, common coding is compatible with the claim that meaning is embodied, i.e. grounded in perception and action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "618584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=618584", "title": "Computational group theory", "text": "Computational group theory\n\nIn mathematics, computational group theory is the study of\ngroups by means of computers. It is concerned\nwith designing and analysing algorithms and\ndata structures to compute information about groups. The subject\nhas attracted interest because for many interesting groups\n(including most of the sporadic groups) it is impractical\nto perform calculations by hand.\n\nImportant algorithms in computational group theory include:\n\nTwo important computer algebra systems (CAS) used for group theory are\nGAP and Magma. Historically, other systems such as CAS (for character theory) and Cayley (a predecessor of Magma) were important.\n\nSome achievements of the field include:\n\n\nThere are three books covering various parts of the subject:\n"}
{"id": "22852566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22852566", "title": "Crucifixion of Jesus", "text": "Crucifixion of Jesus\n\nThe crucifixion of Jesus occurred in 1st-century Judea, most likely between AD 30 and 33. Jesus' crucifixion is described in the four canonical gospels, referred to in the New Testament epistles, attested to by other ancient sources, and is established as a historical event confirmed by non-Christian sources, although there is no consensus among historians on the exact details.\n\nAccording to the canonical gospels, Jesus was arrested and tried by the Sanhedrin, and then sentenced by Pontius Pilate to be scourged, and finally crucified by the Romans. Jesus was stripped of his clothing and offered wine mixed with myrrh or gall to drink after saying \"I am thirsty\". He was then hung between two convicted thieves and, according to the Gospel of Mark, died some six hours later. During this time, the soldiers affixed a sign to the top of the cross stating \"Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews\" which, according to the Gospel of John, was written in three languages. They then divided his garments among themselves and cast lots for his seamless robe, according to the Gospel of John. According to the Gospel of John after Jesus' death, one soldier pierced his side with a spear to be certain that he had died, then blood and water gushed. The Bible describes seven statements that Jesus made while he was on the cross, as well as several supernatural events that occurred.\n\nCollectively referred to as the Passion, Jesus' suffering and redemptive death by crucifixion are the central aspects of Christian theology concerning the doctrines of salvation and atonement.\n\nThe baptism of Jesus and his crucifixion are considered to be two historically certain facts about Jesus. James Dunn states that these \"two facts in the life of Jesus command almost universal assent\" and \"rank so high on the 'almost impossible to doubt or deny' scale of historical facts\" that they are often the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus. Bart Ehrman states that the crucifixion of Jesus on the orders of Pontius Pilate is the most certain element about him. John Dominic Crossan states that the crucifixion of Jesus is as certain as any historical fact can be. Eddy and Boyd state that it is now \"firmly established\" that there is non-Christian confirmation of the crucifixion of Jesus. Craig Blomberg states that most scholars in the third quest for the historical Jesus consider the crucifixion indisputable. Christopher M. Tuckett states that, although the exact reasons for the death of Jesus are hard to determine, one of the indisputable facts about him is that he was crucified.\n\nWhile scholars agree on the historicity of the crucifixion, they differ on the reason and context for it. For example, both E. P. Sanders and Paula Fredriksen support the historicity of the crucifixion but contend that Jesus did not foretell his own crucifixion and that his prediction of the crucifixion is a \"church creation\" (p. 126). Geza Vermes also views the crucifixion as a historical event but provides his own explanation and background for it.\n\nJohn P. Meier views the crucifixion of Jesus as historical fact and states that, based on the criterion of embarrassment, Christians would not have invented the painful death of their leader. Meier states that a number of other criteria, e.g., the criterion of multiple attestation (i.e., confirmation by more than one source) and the criterion of coherence (i.e., that it fits with other historical elements) help establish the crucifixion of Jesus as a historical event.\n\nAlthough almost all ancient sources relating to crucifixion are literary, the 1968 archeological discovery just northeast of Jerusalem of the body of a crucified man dated to the 1st century provided good confirmatory evidence that crucifixions occurred during the Roman period roughly according to the manner in which the crucifixion of Jesus is described in the gospels. The crucified man was identified as Yehohanan ben Hagkol and probably died about 70 AD, around the time of the Jewish revolt against Rome. The analyses at the Hadassah Medical School estimated that he died in his late 20s. Another relevant archaeological find, which also dates to the 1st century AD, is an unidentified heel bone with a spike discovered in a Jerusalem gravesite, now held by the Israel Antiquities Authority and displayed in the Israel Museum.\n\nThe earliest detailed accounts of the death of Jesus are contained in the four canonical gospels. There are other, more implicit references in the New Testament epistles. In the synoptic gospels, Jesus predicts his death in three separate places. All four Gospels conclude with an extended narrative of Jesus' arrest, initial trial at the Sandhedrin and final trial at Pilate's court, where Jesus is flogged, condemned to death, is led to the place of crucifixion initially carrying his cross before Roman soldiers induce Simon of Cyrene to carry it, and then Jesus is crucified, entombed, and resurrected from the dead. His death is described as a sacrifice in the Gospels and other books of the New Testament. In each Gospel these five events in the life of Jesus are treated with more intense detail than any other portion of that Gospel's narrative. Scholars note that the reader receives an almost hour-by-hour account of what is happening.\n\nAfter arriving at Golgotha, Jesus was offered wine mixed with myrrh or gall to drink. Matthew's and Mark's Gospels record that he refused this. He was then crucified and hung between two convicted thieves. According to some translations of the original Greek, the thieves may have been bandits or Jewish rebels. According to Mark's Gospel, he endured the torment of crucifixion for some six hours from the third hour, at approximately 9 am, until his death at the ninth hour, corresponding to about 3 pm. The soldiers affixed a sign above his head stating \"Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews\" which, according to the Gospel of John, was in three languages, and then divided his garments and casted lots for his seamless robe. According to the Gospel of John, the Roman soldiers did not break Jesus' legs, as they did to the two crucified thieves (breaking the legs hastened the onset of death), as Jesus was dead already. Each gospel has its own account of Jesus' last words, seven statements altogether. In the Synoptic Gospels, various supernatural events accompany the crucifixion, including darkness, an earthquake, and (in Matthew) the resurrection of saints. Following Jesus' death, his body was removed from the cross by Joseph of Arimathea and buried in a rock-hewn tomb, with Nicodemus assisting.\nAccording to all four gospels, Jesus was brought to the \"Place of a Skull\" and crucified with two thieves, with the charge of claiming to be \"King of the Jews\", and the soldiers divided his clothes before he bowed his head and died. Following his death, Joseph of Arimathea requested the body from Pilate, which Joseph then placed in a new garden tomb.\n\nThe three Synoptic gospels also describe Simon of Cyrene bearing the cross, a crowd of people mocking Jesus along with the thieves/robbers/rebels, darkness from the 6th to the 9th hour, and the temple veil being torn from top to bottom. The Synoptic Gospels also mention several witnesses, including a centurion, and several women who watched from a distance two of whom were present during the burial.\n\nLuke is the only gospel writer to omit the detail of sour wine mix that was offered to Jesus on a reed, while only Mark and John describe Joseph actually taking the body down off the cross.\n\nThere are several details that are only found in one of the gospel accounts. For instance, only Matthew's gospel mentions an earthquake, resurrected saints who went to the city and that Roman soldiers were assigned to guard the tomb, while Mark is the only one to state the actual time of the crucifixion (the third hour, or 9 am) and the centurion's report of Jesus' death. The Gospel of Luke's unique contributions to the narrative include Jesus' words to the women who were mourning, one criminal's rebuke of the other, the reaction of the multitudes who left \"beating their breasts\", and the women preparing spices and ointments before resting on the Sabbath. John is also the only one to refer to the request that the legs be broken and the soldier's subsequent piercing of Jesus' side (as fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy), as well as that Nicodemus assisted Joseph with burial.\n\nAccording to the First Epistle to the Corinthians (1 Cor. 15:4), Jesus was raised from the dead (\"on the third day\" counting the day of crucifixion as the first) and according to the canonical Gospels, appeared to his disciples on different occasions before ascending to heaven. The account given in Acts of the Apostles says that Jesus remained with the apostles for forty days, whereas the account in the Gospel of Luke makes no clear distinction between the events of Easter Sunday and the Ascension. However, most biblical scholars agree that St. Luke also wrote the Acts of the Apostles as a follow-up volume to his Gospel account, and the two works must be considered as a whole.\n\nIn Mark, Jesus is crucified along with two rebels, and the sun goes dark or is obscured for three hours. Jesus calls out to God, then gives a shout and dies. The curtain of the Temple is torn in two. Matthew follows Mark, but mentions an earthquake and the resurrection of saints. Luke also follows Mark, although he describes the rebels as common criminals, one of whom defends Jesus, who in turn promises that he (Jesus) and the criminal will be together in paradise. Luke portrays Jesus as impassive in the face of his crucifixion. John includes several of the same elements as those found in Mark, though they are treated differently.\n\nAn early non-Christian reference to the crucifixion of Jesus is likely to be Mara Bar-Serapion's letter to his son, written some time after AD 73 but before the 3rd century AD. The letter includes no Christian themes and the author is presumed to be neither Jewish nor Christian. The letter refers to the retributions that followed the unjust treatment of three wise men: Socrates, Pythagoras, and \"the wise king\" of the Jews. Some scholars see little doubt that the reference to the execution of the \"king of the Jews\" is about the crucifixion of Jesus, while others place less value in the letter, given the possible ambiguity in the reference.\n\nIn the \"Antiquities of the Jews\" (written about 93 AD) Jewish historian Josephus stated () that Jesus was crucified by Pilate, writing that:\n\nNow there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, ... He drew over to him both many of the Jews and many of the Gentiles ... And when Pilate, at the suggestion of the principal men amongst us, had condemned him to the cross ...\nMost modern scholars agree that while this Josephus passage (called the \"Testimonium Flavianum\") includes some later interpolations, it originally consisted of an authentic nucleus with a reference to the execution of Jesus by Pilate. James Dunn states that there is \"broad consensus\" among scholars regarding the nature of an authentic reference to the crucifixion of Jesus in the \"Testimonium\".\n\nEarly in the second century another reference to the crucifixion of Jesus was made by Tacitus, generally considered one of the greatest Roman historians. Writing in \"The Annals\" (\"c.\" 116 AD), Tacitus described the persecution of Christians by Nero and stated () that Pilate ordered the execution of Jesus:\n\nNero fastened the guilt and inflicted the most exquisite tortures on a class hated for their abominations, called Christians by the populace. Christus, from whom the name had its origin, suffered the extreme penalty during the reign of Tiberius at the hands of one of our procurators, Pontius Pilatus.\nScholars generally consider the Tacitus reference to the execution of Jesus by Pilate to be genuine, and of historical value as an independent Roman source. Eddy and Boyd state that it is now \"firmly established\" that Tacitus provides a non-Christian confirmation of the crucifixion of Jesus.\n\nAnother possible reference to the crucifixion (\"\"hanging\" cf. ; \") is found in the Babylonian Talmud:\nAlthough the question of the equivalence of the identities of Yeshu and Jesus has at times been debated, many historians agree that the above 2nd-century passage is likely to be about Jesus, Peter Schäfer stating that there can be no doubt that this narrative of the execution in the Talmud refers to Jesus of Nazareth. Robert Van Voorst states that the Sanhedrin 43a reference to Jesus can be confirmed not only from the reference itself, but from the context that surrounds it.\n\nMuslims maintain that Jesus was not crucified and that those who thought they had killed him had mistakenly killed Judas Iscariot, Simon of Cyrene, or someone else in his place. They hold this belief based on various interpretations of , which states: \"they killed him not, nor crucified him, but so it was made to appear to them [or it appeared so unto them], ... Nay, Allah raised him up unto Himself\".\n\nSome early Christian Gnostic sects, believing Jesus did not have a physical substance, denied that he was crucified. In response, Ignatius of Antioch insisted that Jesus was truly born and was truly crucified and wrote that those who held that Jesus only seemed to suffer only seemed to be Christians.\n\nThere is no consensus regarding the exact date of the crucifixion of Jesus, although it is generally agreed by biblical scholars that it was on a Friday on or near Passover (Nisan 15), during the governorship of Pontius Pilate (who ruled AD 26–36). Scholars have provided estimates for the year of crucifixion in the range 30–33 AD, with Rainer Riesner stating that \"the fourteenth of Nisan (7 April) of the year A.D. 30 is, apparently in the opinion of the majority of contemporary scholars as well, far and away the most likely date of the crucifixion of Jesus.\" Another preferred date among scholars is Friday, April 3, 33 AD.\n\nSince an observational calendar was used during the time of Jesus, including an ascertainment of the new moon and ripening barley harvest, the exact day or even month for Passover in a given year is subject to speculation. Various approaches have been used to estimate the year of the crucifixion, including the canonical Gospels, the chronology of the life of Paul, as well as different astronomical models.\n\nThe consensus of scholarship is that the New Testament accounts represent a crucifixion occurring on a Friday, but a Thursday or Wednesday crucifixion have also been proposed. Some scholars explain a Thursday crucifixion based on a \"double sabbath\" caused by an extra Passover sabbath falling on Thursday dusk to Friday afternoon, ahead of the normal weekly Sabbath. Some have argued that Jesus was crucified on Wednesday, not Friday, on the grounds of the mention of \"three days and three nights\" in before his resurrection, celebrated on Sunday. Others have countered by saying that this ignores the Jewish idiom by which a \"day and night\" may refer to any part of a 24-hour period, that the expression in Matthew is idiomatic, not a statement that Jesus was 72 hours in the tomb, and that the many references to a resurrection on the third day do not require three literal nights.\n\nIn crucifixion takes place at the third hour (9 a.m.) and Jesus' death at the ninth hour (3 p.m.). However, in Jesus is still before Pilate at the sixth hour. Scholars have presented a number of arguments to deal with the issue, some suggesting a reconciliation, e.g., based on the use of Roman timekeeping in John but not in Mark, yet others have rejected the arguments. Several scholars have argued that the modern precision of marking the time of day should not be read back into the gospel accounts, written at a time when no standardization of timepieces, or exact recording of hours and minutes was available, and time was often approximated to the closest three-hour period.\n\nThe three Synoptic Gospels refer to a man called Simon of Cyrene whom the Roman soldiers order to carry the cross after Jesus initially carries it but then collapses, while the Gospel of John just says that Jesus \"bears\" his own cross. \n\nLuke's gospel also describes an interaction between Jesus and the women among the crowd of mourners following him, quoting Jesus as saying \"Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming when they will say, 'Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!' Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall on us,' and to the hills, 'Cover us.' For if they do these things when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?\"\n\nThe Gospel of Luke has Jesus address these women as \"daughters of Jerusalem\", thus distinguishing them from the women whom the same gospel describes as \"the women who had followed him from Galilee\" and who were present at his crucifixion.\n\nTraditionally, the path that Jesus took is called Via Dolorosa (Latin for \"Way of Grief\" or \"Way of Suffering\") and is a street in the Old City of Jerusalem. It is marked by nine of the fourteen Stations of the Cross. It passes the Ecce Homo Church and the last five stations are inside the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.\n\nThere is no reference to a woman named Veronica in the Gospels, but sources such as \"Acta Sanctorum\" describe her as a pious woman of Jerusalem who, moved with pity as Jesus carried his cross to Golgotha, gave him her veil that he might wipe his forehead.\n\nThe precise location of the crucifixion remains a matter of conjecture, but the biblical accounts indicate that it was outside the city walls of Jerusalem, accessible to passers-by and observable from some distance away. Eusebius identified its location only as being north of Mount Zion, which is consistent with the two most popularly suggested sites of modern times.\n\nCalvary as an English name for the place is derived from the Latin word for skull (\"calvaria\"), which is used in the Vulgate translation of \"place of a skull\", the explanation given in all four Gospels of the Aramaic word \"Gûlgaltâ\" which was the name of the place where Jesus was crucified. The text does not indicate why it was so designated, but several theories have been put forward. One is that as a place of public execution, Calvary may have been strewn with the skulls of abandoned victims (which would be contrary to Jewish burial traditions, but not Roman). Another is that Calvary is named after a nearby cemetery (which is consistent with both of the proposed modern sites). A third is that the name was derived from the physical contour, which would be more consistent with the singular use of the word, i.e., the place of \"a skull\". While often referred to as \"Mount Calvary\", it was more likely a small hill or rocky knoll.\n\nThe traditional site, inside what is now occupied by the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in the Christian Quarter of the Old City, has been attested since the 4th century. A second site (commonly referred to as Gordon's Calvary ), located further north of the Old City near a place popularly called the Garden Tomb, has been promoted since the 19th century.\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew describes many women at the crucifixion, some of whom are named in the Gospels. Aside from these women, the three Synoptic Gospels speak of the presence of others: \"the chief priests, with the scribes and elders\"; two robbers crucified, one on Jesus' right and one on his left, whom the Gospel of Luke presents as the penitent thief and the impenitent thief; \"the soldiers\", \"the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus\"; passers-by; \"bystanders\", \"the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle\"; and \"his acquaintances\".\n\nThe Gospel of John also speaks of women present, but only mentions the soldiers and \"the disciple whom Jesus loved\".\n\nThe Gospels also tell of the arrival, after the death of Jesus, of Joseph of Arimathea and of Nicodemus.\n\nWhereas most Christians believe the gibbet on which Jesus was executed was the traditional two-beamed cross, the Jehovah's Witnesses hold the view that a single upright stake was used. The Greek and Latin words used in the earliest Christian writings are ambiguous. The Koine Greek terms used in the New Testament are \"stauros\" () and \"xylon\" (). The latter means wood (a live tree, timber or an object constructed of wood); in earlier forms of Greek, the former term meant an upright stake or pole, but in Koine Greek it was used also to mean a cross. The Latin word \"crux\" was also applied to objects other than a cross.\n\nHowever, early Christian writers who speak of the shape of the particular gibbet on which Jesus died invariably describe it as having a cross-beam. For instance, the Epistle of Barnabas, which was certainly earlier than 135, and may have been of the 1st century AD, the time when the gospel accounts of the death of Jesus were written, likened it to the letter T (the Greek letter tau, which had the numeric value of 300), and to the position assumed by Moses in . Justin Martyr (100–165) explicitly says the cross of Christ was of two-beam shape: \"That lamb which was commanded to be wholly roasted was a symbol of the suffering of the cross which Christ would undergo. For the lamb, which is roasted, is roasted and dressed up in the form of the cross. For one spit is transfixed right through from the lower parts up to the head, and one across the back, to which are attached the legs of the lamb.\" Irenaeus, who died around the end of the 2nd century, speaks of the cross as having \"five extremities, two in length, two in breadth, and one in the middle, on which [last] the person rests who is fixed by the nails.\"\n\nThe assumption of the use of a two-beamed cross does not determine the number of nails used in the crucifixion and some theories suggest three nails while others suggest four nails. However, throughout history larger numbers of nails have been hypothesized, at times as high as 14 nails. These variations are also present in the artistic depictions of the crucifixion. In the Western Church, before the Renaissance usually four nails would be depicted, with the feet side by side. After the Renaissance most depictions use three nails, with one foot placed on the other. Nails are almost always depicted in art, although Romans sometimes just tied the victims to the cross. The tradition also carries to Christian emblems, e.g. the Jesuits use three nails under the IHS monogram and a cross to symbolize the crucifixion.\n\nThe placing of the nails in the hands, or the wrists is also uncertain. Some theories suggest that the Greek word \"cheir\" (χειρ) for hand includes the wrist and that the Romans were generally trained to place nails through Destot's space (between the capitate and lunate bones) without fracturing any bones. Another theory suggests that the Greek word for hand also includes the forearm and that the nails were placed near the radius and ulna of the forearm. Ropes may have also been used to fasten the hands in addition to the use of nails.\n\nAnother issue of debate has been the use of a hypopodium as a standing platform to support the feet, given that the hands may not have been able to support the weight. In the 17th century Rasmus Bartholin considered a number of analytical scenarios of that topic. In the 20th century, forensic pathologist Frederick Zugibe performed a number of crucifixion experiments by using ropes to hang human subjects at various angles and hand positions. His experiments support an angled suspension, and a two-beamed cross, and perhaps some form of foot support, given that in an \"Aufbinden\" form of suspension from a straight stake (as used by the Nazis in the Dachau concentration camp during World War II), death comes rather quickly.\n\nThe Gospels describe various \"last words\" that Jesus said while on the cross, as follows:\n\nMark / Matthew\n\nThe only words of Jesus on the cross mentioned in the Mark and Matthew accounts, this is a quotation of Psalm 22. Since other verses of the same Psalm are cited in the crucifixion accounts, some commentators consider it a literary and theological creation; however, Geza Vermes points out that the verse is cited in Aramaic rather than the Hebrew in which it usually would have been recited, and suggests that by the time of Jesus, this phrase had become a proverbial saying in common usage. Compared to the accounts in the other Gospels, which he describes as 'theologically correct and reassuring', he considers this phrase 'unexpected, disquieting and in consequence more probable'. He describes it as bearing 'all the appearances of a genuine cry'. Raymond Brown likewise comments that he finds 'no persuasive argument against attributing to the Jesus of Mark/Matt the literal sentiment of feeling forsaken expressed in the Psalm quote'.\n\nLuke\n\nThe Gospel of Luke does not include the aforementioned exclamation of Jesus mentioned in Matthew and Mark.\n\nJohn\n\nThe words of Jesus on the cross, especially his last words, have been the subject of a wide range of Christian teachings and sermons, and a number of authors have written books specifically devoted to the last sayings of Christ.\n\nThe synoptics report various miraculous events during the crucifixion. Mark mentions a period of darkness in the daytime during Jesus' crucifixion, and the Temple veil being torn in two when Jesus dies. Luke follows Mark; as does Matthew, additionally mentioning an earthquake and the . No mention of any of these appears in John.\n\nIn the synoptic narrative, while Jesus is hanging on the cross, the sky over Judea (or the whole world) is \"darkened for three hours,\" from the sixth to the ninth hour (noon to mid-afternoon). There is no reference to darkness in the Gospel of John account, in which the crucifixion does not take place until after noon.\n\nSome Christian writers considered the possibility that pagan commentators may have mentioned this event, mistaking it for a solar eclipse - although this would have been impossible during the Passover, which takes place at the full moon. Christian traveller and historian Sextus Julius Africanus and Christian theologian Origen refer to Greek historian Phlegon, who lived in the 2nd century AD, as having written \"with regard to the eclipse in the time of Tiberius Caesar, in whose reign Jesus appears to have been crucified, and the great earthquakes which then took place\".\n\nSextus Julius Africanus further refers to the writings of historian Thallus: \"This darkness Thallus, in the third book of his History, calls, as appears to me without reason, an eclipse of the sun. For the Hebrews celebrate the passover on the 14th day according to the moon, and the passion of our Saviour falls on the day before the passover; but an eclipse of the sun takes place only when the moon comes under the sun.\" Christian apologist Tertullian believed the event was documented in the Roman archives.\n\nColin Humphreys and W. G. Waddington of Oxford University considered the possibility that a lunar, rather than solar, eclipse might have taken place. They concluded that such an eclipse would have been visible, for thirty minutes, from Jerusalem and suggested the gospel reference to a solar eclipse was the result of a scribe wrongly amending a text. Historian David Henige dismisses this explanation as 'indefensible' and astronomer Bradley Schaefer points out that the lunar eclipse would not have been visible during daylight hours.\n\nModern biblical scholarship treats the account in the synoptic gospels as a literary creation by the author of the Mark Gospel, amended in the Luke and Matthew accounts, intended to heighten the importance of what they saw as a theologically significant event, and not intended to be taken literally. This image of darkness over the land would have been understood by ancient readers, a typical element in the description of the death of kings and other major figures by writers such as Philo, Dio Cassius, Virgil, Plutarch and Josephus. Géza Vermes describes the darkness account as typical of \"Jewish eschatological imagery of the day of the Lord\", and says that those interpreting it as a datable eclipse are \"barking up the wrong tree\".\n\nThe synoptic gospels state that the veil of the temple was torn from top to bottom.\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew mentions an account of earthquakes, rocks splitting, and the opening of the graves of dead saints and describes how these resurrected saints went into the holy city and appeared to many people.\n\nIn the Mark and Matthew accounts, the centurion in charge comments on the events: \"Truly this man was the Son of God!\" or \"Truly this was the Son of God!\". The Gospel of Luke quotes him as saying, \"Certainly this man was innocent!\"\n\nA widespread 6.3 magnitude earthquake has been confirmed to have taken place between 26-36 AD in the time of Jesus. The authors concluded that:\nA number of theories to explain the circumstances of the death of Jesus on the cross have been proposed by physicians and Biblical scholars. In 2006, Matthew W. Maslen and Piers D. Mitchell reviewed over 40 publications on the subject with theories ranging from cardiac rupture to pulmonary embolism.\nIn 1847, based on the reference in the Gospel of John () to blood and water coming out when Jesus' side was pierced with a spear, physician William Stroud proposed the ruptured heart theory of the cause of Christ's death which influenced a number of other people.\n\nThe cardiovascular collapse theory is a prevalent modern explanation and suggests that Jesus died of profound shock. According to this theory, the scourging, the beatings, and the fixing to the cross would have left Jesus dehydrated, weak, and critically ill and that this would have led to cardiovascular collapse.\n\nWriting in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\", physician William Edwards and his colleagues supported the combined cardiovascular collapse (via hypovolemic shock) and exhaustion asphyxia theories, assuming that the flow of water from the side of Jesus described in the Gospel of John was pericardial fluid.\n\nIn his book \"The Crucifixion of Jesus\", physician and forensic pathologist Frederick Zugibe studied the likely circumstances of the death of Jesus in great detail. Zugibe carried out a number of experiments over several years to test his theories while he was a medical examiner. These studies included experiments in which volunteers with specific weights were hanging at specific angles and the amount of pull on each hand was measured, in cases where the feet were also secured or not. In these cases the amount of pull and the corresponding pain was found to be significant.\n\nPierre Barbet, a French physician, and the chief surgeon at Saint Joseph's Hospital in Paris, hypothesized that Jesus would have had to relax his muscles to obtain enough air to utter his last words, in the face of exhaustion asphyxia. Some of Barbet's theories, e.g., location of nails, are disputed by Zugibe.\n\nOrthopedic surgeon Keith Maxwell not only analyzed the medical aspects of the crucifixion, but also looked back at how Jesus could have carried the cross all the way along Via Dolorosa.\n\nIn an article for the Catholic Medical Association, Phillip Bishop and physiologist Brian Church suggested a new theory based on suspension trauma.\n\nIn 2003, historians FP Retief and L. Cilliers reviewed the history and pathology of crucifixion as performed by the Romans and suggested that the cause of death was often a combination of factors. They also state that Roman guards were prohibited from leaving the scene until death had occurred.\n\nChristians believe that Jesus' death was instrumental in restoring humankind to relationship with God. Christians believe that through faith in Jesus' substitutionary death (among other interpretive theories see below) and triumphant resurrection people are reunited with God and receive new joy and power in this life as well as eternal life in heaven after the body's death. Thus the crucifixion of Jesus along with his resurrection restores access to a vibrant experience of God's presence, love and grace as well as the confidence of eternal life.\n\nThe accounts of the crucifixion and subsequent resurrection of Jesus provide a rich background for Christological analysis, from the canonical Gospels to the Pauline epistles. Christians believe Jesus' suffering was foretold in the Hebrew Bible, such as in Psalm 22, and Isaiah's songs of the suffering servant.\n\nIn Johannine \"agent Christology\" the submission of Jesus to crucifixion is a sacrifice made as an agent of God or servant of God, for the sake of eventual victory. This builds on the salvific theme of the Gospel of John which begins in with John the Baptist's proclamation: \"The Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world\". Further reinforcement of the concept is provided in where the \"lamb slain but standing\" is the only one worthy of handling the scroll (i.e. the book) containing the names of those who are to be saved.\n\nA central element in the Christology presented in the Acts of the Apostles is the affirmation of the belief that the death of Jesus by crucifixion happened \"with the foreknowledge of God, according to a definite plan\". In this view, as in , the cross is not viewed as a scandal, for the crucifixion of Jesus \"at the hands of the lawless\" is viewed as the fulfillment of the plan of God.\n\nPaul's Christology has a specific focus on the death and resurrection of Jesus. For Paul, the crucifixion of Jesus is directly related to his resurrection and the term \"the cross of Christ\" used in may be viewed as his abbreviation of the message of the gospels. For Paul, the crucifixion of Jesus was not an isolated event in history, but a cosmic event with significant eschatological consequences, as in . In the Pauline view, Jesus, obedient to the point of death () died \"at the right time\" () based on the plan of God. For Paul the \"power of the cross\" is not separable from the Resurrection of Jesus.\n\nHowever, the belief in the redemptive nature of Jesus' death predates the Pauline letters and goes back to the earliest days of Christianity and the Jerusalem church. The Nicene Creed's statement that \"for our sake he was crucified\" is a reflection of this core belief's formalization in the fourth century.\n\nJohn Calvin supported the \"agent of God\" Christology and argued that in his trial in Pilate's Court Jesus could have successfully argued for his innocence, but instead submitted to crucifixion in obedience to the Father. This Christological theme continued into the 20th century, both in the Eastern and Western Churches. In the Eastern Church Sergei Bulgakov argued that the crucifixion of Jesus was \"pre-eternally\" determined by the Father before the creation of the world, to redeem humanity from the disgrace caused by the fall of Adam. In the Western Church, Karl Rahner elaborated on the analogy that the blood of the Lamb of God (and the water from the side of Jesus) shed at the crucifixion had a cleansing nature, similar to baptismal water.\n\nJesus' death and resurrection underpin a variety of theological interpretations as to how salvation is granted to humanity. These interpretations vary widely in how much emphasis they place on the death of Jesus as compared to his words. According to the substitutionary atonement view, Jesus' death is of central importance, and Jesus willingly sacrificed himself as an act of perfect obedience as a sacrifice of love which pleased God. By contrast the moral influence theory of atonement focuses much more on the moral content of Jesus' teaching, and sees Jesus' death as a martyrdom. Since the Middle Ages there has been conflict between these two views within Western Christianity. Evangelical Protestants typically hold a substitutionary view and in particular hold to the theory of penal substitution. Liberal Protestants typically reject substitutionary atonement and hold to the moral influence theory of atonement. Both views are popular within the Roman Catholic church, with the satisfaction doctrine incorporated into the idea of penance.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic tradition this view of atonement is balanced by the duty of Roman Catholics to perform Acts of Reparation to Jesus Christ which in the encyclical \"Miserentissimus Redemptor\" of Pope Pius XI were defined as \"some sort of compensation to be rendered for the injury\" with respect to the sufferings of Jesus. Pope John Paul II referred to these Acts of Reparation as the \"unceasing effort to stand beside the endless crosses on which the Son of God continues to be crucified.\"\n\nAmong Eastern Orthodox Christians, another common view is Christus Victor. This holds that Jesus was sent by God to defeat death and Satan. Because of his perfection, voluntary death, and resurrection, Jesus defeated Satan and death, and arose victorious. Therefore, humanity was no longer bound in sin, but was free to rejoin God through faith in Jesus.\n\nMost Islamic traditions, save for a few, categorically deny that Jesus physically died, either on a cross or another manner. The contention is found within the Islamic traditions themselves, with the earliest Hadith reports quoting the companions of Muhammad stating Jesus having died, while the majority of subsequent Hadith and Tafsir have elaborated an argument in favor of the denial through exegesis and apologetics, becoming the popular (orthodox) view.\n\nProfessor and scholar Mahmoud M. Ayoub sums up what the Quran states despite interpretative arguments:\n\nThe below quranic verse says Jesus was neither killed nor crucified:\n\nContrary to Christian teachings, some Islamic traditions teach that Jesus ascended to Heaven without being put on the cross, but that God transformed another person to appear exactly like him and to be then crucified instead of him. This thought is supported in misreading an account by Irenaeus, the 2nd-century Alexandrian Gnostic Basilides when refuting a heresy denying the death.\n\nSince the crucifixion of Jesus, the cross has become a key element of Christian symbolism, and the crucifixion scene has been a key element of Christian art, giving rise to specific artistic themes such as Ecce Homo, The Raising of the Cross, Descent from the Cross and Entombment of Christ.\n\nThe Crucifixion, seen from the Cross by Tissot presented a novel approach at the end of the 19th century, in which the crucifixion scene was portrayed from the perspective of Jesus.\n\nThe symbolism of the cross which is today one of the most widely recognized Christian symbols was used from the earliest Christian times and Justin Martyr who died in 165 describes it in a way that already implies its use as a symbol, although the crucifix appeared later. Masters such as Caravaggio, Rubens and Titian have all depicted the in their works.\n\nDevotions based on the process of crucifixion, and the sufferings of Jesus are followed by various Christians. The Stations of the Cross follows a number of stages based on the stages involved in the crucifixion of Jesus, while the Rosary of the Holy Wounds is used to meditate on the wounds of Jesus as part of the crucifixion.\n\nThe presence of the Virgin Mary under the cross has in itself been the subject of Marian art, and well known Catholic symbolism such as the Miraculous Medal and Pope John Paul II's Coat of Arms bearing a Marian Cross. And a number of Marian devotions also involve the presence of the Virgin Mary in Calvary, e.g., Pope John Paul II stated that \"Mary was united to Jesus on the Cross\". Well known works of Christian art by masters such as Raphael (e.g., the Mond Crucifixion), and Caravaggio (e.g., his Entombment) depict the Virgin Mary as part of the crucifixion scene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4498317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4498317", "title": "European Data Format", "text": "European Data Format\n\nEuropean Data Format (EDF) is a standard file format designed for exchange and storage of medical time series. Being an open and non-proprietary format, EDF(+) is commonly used to archive, exchange and analyse data from commercial devices in a format that is independent of the acquisition system. In this way, the data can be retrieved and analyzed by independent software. EDF(+) software (browsers, checkers, ...) and example files are freely available.\n\nEDF was published in 1992 and stores multichannel data, allowing different sample rates for each signal. Internally it includes a header and one or more data records. The header contains some general information (patient identification, start time...) and technical specs of each signal (calibration, sampling rate, filtering, ...), coded as ASCII characters. The data records contain samples as little-endian 16-bit integers. EDF is a popular format for polysomnography (PSG) recordings.\n\nEDF+ was published in 2003 and is largely compatible to EDF: all existing EDF viewers also show EDF+ signals. But EDF+ files also allow coding discontinuous recordings as well as annotations, stimuli and events in UTF-8 format. EDF+ has applications in PSG, electroencephalography (EEG), electrocardiography (ECG), electromyography (EMG), and Sleep scoring. EDF+ can also be used for nerve conduction studies, evoked potentials and other data acquisition studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50513666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50513666", "title": "French submarine Diane (1916)", "text": "French submarine Diane (1916)\n\nThe French submarine \"Diane\" was the lead boat of the class of two submarines built for the French Navy during World War I.\n\nOn 11 February 1918, \"Diane\" suffered an internal explosion in the Bay of Biscay off La Pallice, Vendée, France, and sank with the loss of her entire crew of 43.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3192552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3192552", "title": "Gearhead (DC Comics)", "text": "Gearhead (DC Comics)\n\nGearhead is the name of two DC Comics supervillains.\n\nThe unidentified Gearhead first appeared in \"Steel\" #14.\n\nThe Nathan Finch version of Gearhead first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #712 and was created by Chuck Dixon, Graham Nolan, and Bob McLeod\n\nThe first Gearhead appeared as a henchman of the supervillain called White Rabbit.\n\nThe second Gearhead is Nathan Finch, a former engineer at General Robotics. While he was kidnapping and holding Gloria Osteen, his boss' daughter, for ransom, he runs afoul of Batman who rescues her. Unfortunately, he was not able to save Nathan from falling to an icy death. Nathan Finch's body was discovered by two down-and-out people who take him to an underworld doctor named Dr. Bascomb. It turned out that Nathan was not dead and the doctor wanted his knowledge of cybernetics. Due to ravages of frostbite, Dr. Bascomb removed his arms and legs and replaced them with cybernetic arms and legs. Following a training with his cybernetic limbs, Nathan becomes Gearhead and develops his own cybernetic arsenal of removable body parts as well as a goal to exterminate Batman, whom he refers to as the \"vermin\". Gloria Osteen later receives a call from Nathan to meet him at Babylon Towers. During the confrontation between the two of them, Batman arrived and fought Gearhead as they neared a grinder where Gearhead started to choke Batman. As Gearhead started to get Batman close to the grinder, Gloria decided to help Batman by activating a hydraulic magnet in order to get Gearhead off of Batman. With his legs removed, Finch still managed to get away with a Batarang still in his cybernetic arm. While enlisting the help of Robin, Batman traced Gearhead to the sewers where he found a batarang and no Gearhead. Just then, Gearhead attacks Batman. While chasing Gearhead, Batman figured out that his attack on Gloria was a cover so that he can have revenge on Batman. When they fell into the water, Batman broke off one of Gearhead's arms as Gearhead uses his other arm to get away. While Batman left a note for Gloria complete with Gearhead's arm stating that Gearhead is not after her, Gearhead is seen at his hideout rebuilding his body and planning his revenge on Batman.\n\nAs Batman stops three thieves, Gearhead watches from the rooftops where he recaps his origin. Later at his hideout, Gearhead watches a wildlife television show as he gets an idea on how to defeat Batman. The next day, Gearhead attends the press release at Drexel Pharmaceuticals that debut of chips that would bind to living tissue and help fight diseases faster. As the press think that Gearhead is a concerned citizen when he asked about the chips on anyone who is part human and part mechanical, this attracts the attention of Bruce Wayne and Alfred Pennyworth. Later that night, Gearhead begins his heist at Drexel Pharmaceuticals when Batman arrives. Upon luring Batman to the parking lot and recapping the \"tools\" that Dr. Bascomb gave him, Gearhead assembles a big car-like structure up to his waist and is directed by his arms. Batman enters the Batmobile and chases after Gearhead which is what Gearhead had wanted. In the empty part of Gotham City, Gearhead released a miniature car which disabled the Batmobile. After the Batmobile crashes into a pillar, Gearhead decides to let the local street punks deal with Batman. Gearhead then watches as the steet punks close in on the crashed Batmobile. After Batman recovered and got away from the street punks, Gearhead pursued Batman onto the freeway where the bombs dropped by Batman had no effect on it. When Batman spilled oil, it caused Gearhead to slip into a wall which damaged the wheels. This causes Gearhead to activate the spider-like legs on his vehicle. When Batman accelerated Gearhead enough to crash into a wall, it ejected Gearhead landing him on the railroad tracks. Even though it seemed that Gearhead was crushed by the train, Gearhead survived without his cybernetic legs as he crawls somewhere to plan revenge on Batman.\n\nWhen Nicholas Scratch orders his henchmen to find someone to cause chaos in Gotham City, they introduced him to Gearhead, Dynamiteer, and Tumult. After Nightwing and Robin defeated Tumult, they are being watched by a vengeful Gearhead. As Nightwing and Robin patrol Gotham City, they are still being watched by Gearhead through a camera device and is curious to where Batman is. Upon pulling off an ambush, Gearhead took Nightwing captive and had Robin tell Batman that he has less than an hour to confront him or he will kill Nightwing. As Gearhead was starting to lose his patience while tying Nightwing to the soon-to-be-destroyed bridge, he hears Batman's voice which actually came from a voice modulator that Robin used to distract Gearhead while he freed Nightwing. After Nightwing and Robin escaped into the water, Gearhead was attacked by a mob of Nicholas Scratch's minions. As Gearhead shot at them, he accidentally shot the detonators which destroyed the bridge and prevented the villains from leaving Gotham City.\n\nHe played a part in the \"Robin\" section of the \"\" crossover, in which he is one of a number of villains competing for control of Gotham City's sewers. Without the use of his cybernetic arms and legs, he is forced into partnership with the thuggish Tommy Mangles who carries around Finch's torso. The two of them scared off any refugees they came across and stole their supplies. Their actions surprised a rat that worked for Ratcatcher. Gearhead and Tommy Mangles are later dragged underwater and find themselves in a different place from where they were before. The two of them get lost in the sewers. Gearhead and Tommy Mangles are still lost as they check the map to see where they are. They find blocks of ice floating in the water and suggests they head back as Gearhead doesn't like the ice. Tommy Mangles didn't listen to Gearhead and were frozen in ice when it turns out that they are near Mr. Freeze's hideout. As Gearhead and Tommy Mangles are now captives of Mr. Freeze, Gearhead is informed by Mr. Freeze to tell him something useful. Gearhead mentions the storage room with canned food and other products. Mr. Freeze then freezes Gearhead and left to go look for the storage room. After Detective Mackenzie Bock arrested Mr. Freeze and Ratcatcher upon Robin defeating them, the Gotham City Police Department found the frozen bodies of Gearhead and Tommy Mangles and took them into police custody.\n\nHe put in an appearance in the comic mini-series \"Rush City\", where he is physically attached to his car and allies with Arthur Bellingame. When Rush and Black Canary catch up to Anatol Arraza, Gearhead also arrives as well as an army of mercenaries and the DEO as it is discovered that Anatol has a ten-megaton bio-weapon surgically implanted inside of his stomach and is keyed to his body's metabolism and is set to detonate should Anatol ever fall asleep. Gearhead then pursues Rush and Black Canary. Rush unleashes small versions of his car Sam which unleashes an EMP that disables Gearhead. Gearhead revives and drives away. Gearhead catches up to Rush and Black Canary as he brings out metal drills and circular saws from the engine of his car to attack. Rush and Black Canary work together to disable Gearhead.\n\nDuring the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline, Gearhead became a member of Alexander Luthor Jr.'s Secret Society of Super Villains.\n\nThe Nathan Finch version of Gearhead has genius-level intellect. He also can design gadgets that would be of use to him.\n\nGearhead first appeared in \"The Batman\" episode \"RPM\" voiced by Will Friedle. In this version, Gearhead (Nathan Finch) is a criminal car racer, who operates with advanced forms of nanotechnology. Like in the comics he is a cyborg, as the Batman says, \"He doesn't control nanotechnology; he \"is\" nanotechnology\". Aside from his bionics, Gearhead's appearance is altered, donning a yellow racing outfit (albeit with a visorless helmet), a black stripe down the middle of each part and grey, and metal fingers on his left glove (his right arm is sleeveless and the hand on that arm is bare-handed). His right arm has cords that transmit some kind of nanotechnological virus which infects the vehicle and alters it into a more hi-tech form with advanced features and his signature yellow and black colour scheme. His fingertips can extend to form claws when he is engaged in combat. His right arm bears certain shells of the nanotechnological virus, which he can fire at other vehicles and control them remotely. Also, he has a robotic right eye that can automatically guide and maneuver his vehicle through traffic and other obstructions for him. Gearhead first shows up in a yellow race car during a charity race that Bruce Wayne is also competing in. Gearhead wins the race and steals all the charity money and rides off, leaving all the contestants baffled. Soon after, he ends up getting chased by the Batman in his Batmobile. However, Gearhead appears to be too fast for the Batman, and later the Batman eventually loses control of the Batmobile and falls off a cliff. He manages to jump in time, but the Batmobile is destroyed. Later, at the Batcave, Wayne builds a new Batmobile with upgraded parts from other prototypes in his possession, from Wayne Industries technology and even from the nanotechnological shell that he recovered from a vehicle that Gearhead was controlling. With a bigger and better vehicle, the Batman, along with the Batgirl, outraces Gearhead and defeats him. When he tries to steal the new Batmobile by injecting his cords into it, he is electrocuted, as the Batman tells that he reversed the effects of the virus so that it can't infect his vehicle. Gearhead is then sent to jail. Gearhead is later seen in \"Rumors\" as one of the villains captured by Rumor.\n\nTwo action figures of Gearhead were made for \"The Batman\" toyline. One for \"EXP\" line, and one for the \"Shadowtek\" line. However, Mattel renamed him \"Metal Head\" due to legal reasons.\n\nGearhead appears in \"The Batman Strikes!\". In issue #36, it is revealed he used to be Nathan Finch, a big celebrity in underground racing. A car accident severely crippled him, making him lose the use of his arms and legs, and destroyed his career. Finch, lusting for power and glory, gained cybernetic parts and nanotechnology from an unknown benefactor becoming Gearhead and wreaked havoc in Gotham City. Gearhead later makes a cameo alongside many rogues in Arkham Asylum in issue #39 who take revenge against recently imprisoned Black Mask.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56984525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56984525", "title": "Harrison's rule", "text": "Harrison's rule\n\nHarrison’s rule is an observation in evolutionary biology by Launcelot Harrison which states that in comparisons across closely related species, host and parasite body sizes tend to covary positively.\n\nLauncelot Harrison, an Australian authority in zoology and parasitology, published a study in 1915 concluding that host and parasite body sizes tend to covary positively, a covariation later dubbed as 'Harrison’s rule'. Harrison himself originally proposed it to interpret the variability of congeneric louse species. However, subsequent authors verified it for a wide variety of parasitic organisms including nematodes, rhizocephalan barnacles, fleas, lice, ticks, parasitic flies and mites, as well as herbivorous insects associated with specific host plants.\n\nRobert Poulin observed that in comparisons across species, the variability of parasite body size also increases with host body size. \nIt is self-evident that we expect greater variation coming together with greater mean body sizes due to an allometric power law scaling effect. However, Poulin referred to parasites’ increasing body size variability due to biological reasons, thus we expect an increase greater than that caused by a scaling effect.\n\nRecently, Harnos et al. applied phylogenetically controlled statistical methods to test Harrison’s rule and Poulin’s s Increasing Variance Hypothesis in avian lice. Their results indicate that the three major families of avian lice (Ricinidae, Menoponidae, Philopteridae) follow Harrison’s rule, and two of them (Menoponidae, Philopteridae) also follow Poulin’s supplement to it.\n\nThe allometry between host and parasite body sizes constitutes an evident aspect of host–parasite coevolution. The slope of this relationship is a taxon-specific character. Parasites' body size is known to covary positively with fecundity and thus it likely affects the virulence of parasitic infections as well. \n"}
{"id": "15291723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15291723", "title": "Hierarchical control system", "text": "Hierarchical control system\n\nA hierarchical control system is a form of control system in which a set of devices and governing software is arranged in a hierarchical tree. When the links in the tree are implemented by a computer network, then that hierarchical control system is also a form of networked control system.\n\nA human-built system with complex behavior is often organized as a hierarchy. For example, a command hierarchy has among its notable features the organizational chart of superiors, subordinates, and lines of organizational communication. Hierarchical control systems are organized similarly to divide the decision making responsibility.\n\nEach element of the hierarchy is a linked node in the tree. Commands, tasks and goals to be achieved flow down the tree from superior nodes to subordinate nodes, whereas sensations and command results flow up the tree from subordinate to superior nodes. Nodes may also exchange messages with their siblings. The two distinguishing features of a hierarchical control system are related to its layers.\n\n\nBesides artificial systems, an animal's control systems are proposed to be organized as a hierarchy. In perceptual control theory, which postulates that an organism's behavior is a means of controlling its perceptions, the organism's control systems are suggested to be organized in a hierarchical pattern as their perceptions are constructed so.\n\nThe accompanying diagram is a general hierarchical model which shows functional manufacturing levels using computerised control of an industrial control system.\n\nReferring to the diagram;\n\n\nAmong the robotic paradigms is the hierarchical paradigm in which a robot operates in a top-down fashion, heavy on planning, especially motion planning. Computer-aided production engineering has been a research focus at NIST since the 1980s. Its Automated Manufacturing Research Facility was used to develop a five layer production control model. In the early 1990s DARPA sponsored research to develop distributed (i.e. networked) intelligent control systems for applications such as military command and control systems. NIST built on earlier research to develop its Real-Time Control System (RCS) and Real-time Control System Software which is a generic hierarchical control system that has been used to operate a manufacturing cell, a robot crane, and an automated vehicle.\n\nIn November 2007, DARPA held the Urban Challenge. The winning entry, Tartan Racing employed a hierarchical control system, with layered mission planning, motion planning, behavior generation, perception, world modelling, and mechatronics.\n\nSubsumption architecture is a methodology for developing artificial intelligence that is heavily associated with behavior based robotics. This architecture is a way of decomposing complicated intelligent behavior into many \"simple\" behavior modules, which are in turn organized into layers. Each layer implements a particular goal of the software agent (i.e. system as a whole), and higher layers are increasingly more abstract. Each layer's goal subsumes that of the underlying layers, e.g. the decision to move forward by the eat-food layer takes into account the decision of the lowest obstacle-avoidance layer. Behavior need not be planned by a superior layer, rather behaviors may be triggered by sensory inputs and so are only active under circumstances where they might be appropriate.\n\nReinforcement learning has been used to acquire behavior in a hierarchical control system in which each node can learn to improve its behavior with experience.\nJames Albus, while at NIST, developed a theory for intelligent system design named the Reference Model Architecture (RMA), which is a hierarchical control system inspired by RCS. Albus defines each node to contain these components.\nAt its lowest levels, the RMA can be implemented as a subsumption architecture, in which the world model is mapped directly to the controlled process or real world, avoiding the need for a mathematical abstraction, and in which time-constrained reactive planning can be implemented as a finite state machine. Higher levels of the RMA however, may have sophisticated mathematical world models and behavior implemented by automated planning and scheduling. Planning is required when certain behaviors cannot be triggered by current sensations, but rather by predicted or anticipated sensations, especially those that come about as result of the node's actions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14031366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14031366", "title": "Jack W. Szostak", "text": "Jack W. Szostak\n\nJack William Szostak (born November 9, 1952) is a Canadian American biologist of Polish British descent, Nobel Prize laureate, Professor of Genetics at Harvard Medical School, and Alexander Rich Distinguished Investigator at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. Szostak has made significant contributions to the field of genetics. His achievement helped scientists to map the location of genes in mammals and to develop techniques for manipulating genes. His research findings in this area are also instrumental to the Human Genome Project. He was awarded the 2009 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine, along with Elizabeth Blackburn and Carol W. Greider, for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres.\n\nSzostak grew up in Montreal and Ottawa. Although Szostak does not speak Polish, he stated in an interview with Wprost weekly that he remembers his Polish roots. He attended Riverdale High School (Quebec) and graduated at the age of 15 with the scholars prize. He graduated with a B.Sc in cell biology from McGill University at the age of 19. In 1970, as an undergraduate, he participated in The Jackson Laboratory's Summer Student Program under the mentorship of Dr. Chen K. Chai. He completed his PhD in biochemistry at Cornell University (advisor Prof. Ray Wu) before moving to Harvard Medical School to start his own lab at the Sydney Farber Cancer Institute. He credits Ruth Sager for giving him his job there when he had little yet to show. In 1984 Howard Goodman lured him away to Massachusetts General Hospital and the Department of Molecular Biology. He was granted tenure and a full professorship at Harvard Medical School in 1988.\n\nSzostak has made contributions to the field of genetics. He is credited with the construction of the world's first yeast artificial chromosome. That achievement helped scientists to map the location of genes in mammals and to develop techniques for manipulating genes. His achievements in this area are also instrumental to the Human Genome Project.\n\nHis discoveries have helped to clarify the events that lead to chromosomal recombination—the reshuffling of genes that occurs during meiosis—and the function of telomeres, the specialized DNA sequences at the tips of chromosomes.\n\nIn the early 90s his laboratory shifted its research direction and focused on studying RNA enzymes, which had been recently discovered by Cech and Altman. He developed the technique of in vitro evolution of RNA (also developed independently by Gerald Joyce) which enables the discovery of RNAs with desired functions through successive cycles of selection, amplification and mutation. He isolated the first aptamer (term he used for the first time). He isolated RNA enzymes with RNA ligase activity directly from random sequence (project of David Bartel).\n\nCurrently his lab focuses on the challenges of understanding the origin of life on Earth, and the construction of artificial cellular life in the laboratory.\n\nBeyond his research, he has delivered talks about the origin of life on Earth, as he did at the first Starmus Festival in the Canary Islands, in 2011. He subsequently joined the Starmus Board of Directors, and his 2011 lecture was published in the book \"Starmus: 50 Years of Man in Space\".\n\nSzostak has received several awards and honors for his contributions. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, American Academy of Arts and Sciences and New York Academy of Sciences, and is a member of the Kosciuszko Foundation Collegium of Eminent Scientists of Polish Origin and Ancestry.\n\nHe has received the following awards:\n\nAn organism's genes are stored within DNA molecules, which are found in chromosomes inside its cells' nuclei. When a cell divides, it is important that its chromosomes are copied in full, and that they are not damaged. At each end of a chromosome lies a \"cap\" or telomere, as it is known, which protects it. After Elizabeth Blackburn discovered that telomeres have a particular DNA, through experiments conducted on ciliates and yeast, she and Jack Szostak proved in 1982 that the telomeres' DNA prevents chromosomes from being broken down, \n\naccording to the statement released by the Alfred Nobel Foundation.\n\nSzostak is married to Terri-Lynn McCormick and has two sons. He has two sisters, Carolyn Szostak and Kathy Hysen.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "140929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=140929", "title": "Jack Webb", "text": "Jack Webb\n\nJohn Randolph Webb (April 2, 1920 – December 23, 1982) was an American actor, television producer, director, and screenwriter, who is most famous for his role as Sgt. Joe Friday in the \"Dragnet\" franchise (which he created). He was the founder of his own production company, Mark VII Limited.\n\nWebb was born in Santa Monica, California, on April 2, 1920, son of Samuel Chester Webb and Margaret (née Smith) Webb. He grew up in the Bunker Hill section of Los Angeles. His father left home before Webb was born, and Webb never knew him.\n\nWebb was raised in the Roman Catholic faith of his mother, who was of Irish and Native American descent. One of the tenants in his mother's boarding house was a former jazz musician, who began Webb's lifelong interest in jazz by giving him a recording of Bix Beiderbecke's \"At the Jazz Band Ball.\"\n\nIn the late 1920s and early 1930s, Webb lived in the parish of Our Lady of Loretto Church and attended Our Lady of Loretto Elementary School in Echo Park, where he served as an altar boy. He then attended Belmont High School, near downtown Los Angeles. Webb was elected student-body president of his high school. He wrote to Belmont's student body in the 1938 edition of its yearbook, \"Campanile,\" \"You who showed me the magnificent warmth of friendship which I know, and you know, I will carry with me forever.\" Webb attended St. John's University, Minnesota, where he studied art.\nDuring World War II, Webb enlisted in the United States Army Air Corps, but he \"washed out\" of flight training. He later received a hardship discharge because he was the primary financial support for both his mother and grandmother.\n\nFollowing his discharge, he moved to San Francisco, where a wartime shortage of announcers led to a temporary appointment to his own radio show on ABC's KGO Radio. \"The Jack Webb Show\" was a half-hour comedy that had a limited run on ABC radio in 1946. Prior to that, he had a one-man program, \"One Out of Seven,\" on KGO in which he dramatized a news story from the previous week.\n\nBy 1949, he had abandoned comedy for drama, and starred in \"Pat Novak for Hire,\" a radio show originating from KFRC about a man who worked as an unlicensed private detective. The program co-starred Raymond Burr. \"Pat Novak\" was notable for writing that imitated the hard-boiled style of such writers as Raymond Chandler, with lines such as: \"She drifted into the room like 98 pounds of warm smoke. Her voice was hot and sticky--like a furnace full of marshmallows.\"\n\nWebb's radio shows included \"Johnny Madero, Pier 23,\" \"Jeff Regan, Investigator,\" \"Murder and Mr. Malone,\" \"Pete Kelly's Blues,\" and \"One Out of Seven.\" Webb provided all of the voices on \"One Out of Seven,\" often vigorously attacking racial prejudice.\n\nWebb's most famous motion-picture role was as the combat-hardened Marine Corps drill instructor at Parris Island in the 1957 film \"The D.I.,\" with Don Dubbins as a callow Marine private. Webb's hard-nosed approach to this role, that of Drill Instructor Technical Sergeant James Moore, would be reflected in much of his later acting. But \"The D.I.\" was a box-office failure.\n\nWebb was approached to play the role of Vernon Wormer, Dean of Faber College, in \"National Lampoon's Animal House,\" but he turned it down, saying \"the movie didn't make any damn sense\"; John Vernon ultimately played the role.\n\nWebb had a featured role as a crime-lab technician in the 1948 film \"He Walked by Night,\" based on the real-life murder of a California Highway Patrolman by Erwin Walker. The film was produced in semidocumentary style with technical assistance provided by Detective Sergeant Marty Wynn of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). \"He Walked By Night's\" thinly veiled fictionalized recounting of the 1946 Walker crime spree gave Webb the idea for \"Dragnet:\" a recurring series based on real cases from LAPD police files, featuring authentic depictions of the modern police detective, including methods, mannerisms, and technical language.\n\nWith much assistance from Sgt. Marty Wynn and legendary LAPD chief William H. Parker, \"Dragnet\" premiered on NBC Radio in 1949 and ran till 1957. It was also picked up as a television series by NBC, which aired episodes each season from 1952 to 1959. Webb played Sgt. Joe Friday and Barton Yarborough co-starred as Sgt. Ben Romero. After Yarborough's death, Ben Alexander joined the cast.\n\nWebb was a stickler for attention to detail. He believed viewers wanted \"realism\" and tried to give it to them. Webb had tremendous respect for those in law enforcement. He often said, in interviews, that he was angry about the \"ridiculous amount\" of abuse to which police were subjected by the press and the public. Webb was also impressed by the long hours, the low pay, and the high injury rate among police investigators of the day, particularly in the LAPD, which had by then acquired a notorious reputation for jettisoning officers who had become ill or injured in the line of duty; in James Ellroy and his book \"The badge: true and terrifying crime stories that could not be presented on TV, from the creator and star of \"Dragnet\"\", one of Erwin Walker's victims, LAPD detective LT Colin Forbes, was among those whose experiences were so noted.\n\nIn announcing his vision of \"Dragnet,\" Webb said he intended to perform a service for the police by showing them as low-key working-class heroes. \"Dragnet\" moved away from earlier portrayals of the police in shows such as \"Jeff Regan\" and \"Pat Novak,\" which had often shown them as brutal and even corrupt. \"Dragnet\" became a successful television show in 1952. Barton Yarborough died of a heart attack in 1951, after filming only two episodes, and Barney Phillips (Sgt. Ed Jacobs) and Herbert Ellis (Officer Frank Smith) temporarily stepped in as partners. Veteran radio and film actor Ben Alexander took over the role of jovial, burly Officer Frank Smith. Alexander was popular and remained a cast member until the show's cancellation in 1959. In 1954, a full-length feature-film adaptation of the series was released, starring Webb, Alexander, and Richard Boone.\n\nThe television version of \"Dragnet\" began with this narration by George Fenneman: \"Ladies and gentlemen, the story you are about to see is true. The names have been changed to protect the innocent.\" Webb would intone, \"This is the city: Los Angeles, California.\" He would then make a historical or topical point, describe his duties, his partner, and superior on the episode. The radio series had a similar opening, though Webb, as Friday, did not give a unique LA-themed opening. Webb then set the plot by describing a typical day and then led into the story. \"It was Wednesday, March 19th. It was cool in Los Angeles. I was at headquarters, working narcotics...\" At the end of each show, Fenneman repeated his opening narration, revised to read: \"The story you have just seen is true. The names were changed to protect the innocent.\"\n\nA second announcer, Hal Gibney, usually gave dates when and specify courtrooms where trials were held for the suspects, announcing the trial verdicts after commercial breaks. Many suspects shown to have been found guilty at the end were also shown as having been confined to the California State Prison at San Quentin. Webb frequently recreated entire floors of buildings on sound stages, such as the police headquarters at Los Angeles City Hall and a floor of the \"Los Angeles Herald-Examiner.\"\n\nIn \"Dragnet's\" early days, Webb continued to appear in movies, notably as the best friend of William Holden's character in the 1950 Billy Wilder film \"Sunset Boulevard.\" In 1950, Webb appeared alongside future 1960s \"Dragnet\" partner Harry Morgan in the film noir \"Dark City.\" In contrast to the pair's straight-arrow image in \"Dragnet,\" here Webb played a vicious card sharp in \"Dark City\" and Morgan a punch-drunk ex-fighter. Also in 1950, Webb appeared in \"The Men,\" the film in which Marlon Brando made his film debut. Both actors played paraplegics undergoing rehabilitation at a veterans' hospital. In a subplot, Webb's character, a cynical intellectual, is fleeced of his life savings by a woman who feigns romantic interest.\n\nIn 1951, Webb introduced a short-lived radio series, \"Pete Kelly's Blues,\" in an attempt to bring the music he loved to a broader audience. That show became the basis for a 1955 movie of the same name. In 1959, a television version was made. Neither was very successful. Pete Kelly was a cornet player who supplemented his income from playing in a nightclub band by working as a private investigator.\n\nIn 1963, Webb took over from William T. Orr as executive producer of the ABC/Warner Bros. detective series \"77 Sunset Strip.\" He brought about wholesale changes in the program and retained only Efrem Zimbalist, Jr., in the role of private detective Stuart Bailey. Gone were co-stars Roger Smith and Edd Byrnes and the lively series set. The altered program began with Bailey quietly entering an elevator to an upper floor of a bleak office building. The story lines were far different from those of the first five years of the series. The result was a disaster, and critics accused Webb of being out of touch with the younger generation, a perception that \"Dragnet\" subsequently did nothing to correct. Ratings fell, and \"77 Sunset Strip\" was cancelled before the end of the sixth season. John Gavin's \"Destry,\" a light-hearted Western series, filled the remaining three months of the Friday-night time slot vacated on ABC by \"77 Sunset Strip.\"\n\nMeanwhile, Webb teamed with actor Jeffrey Hunter to form Apollo Productions. They produced a failed television series, \"Temple Houston,\" with Hunter in the title role. In the summer of 1963, Webb pushed \"Temple Houston\" to production. The series was loosely based on the life of the frontier lawyer Temple Lea Houston, the youngest son of the legendary Texan Sam Houston. The series was added to the NBC schedule after the planned drama, \"The Robert Taylor Show,\" based on case files of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, was suddenly disbanded after making four episodes. Under orders from Webb, \"Temple Houston\" episodes were put together in just two or three days each, something previously thought impossible in television production. Work began on August 7, 1963, with the initial airing set for September 19. Jimmy Lydon, a former child actor, adult actor, and a television producer with Warner Bros. at the time, recalled that Webb told the staff, \"Fellas, I just sold \"Temple Houston.\" We gotta be on the air in four weeks; we can't use the pilot, we have no scripts, no nothing--do it!\" Lydon recalled the team having worked around the clock to get \"Temple Houston\" on the air. Co-producer William Conrad directed six episodes, two scripts simultaneously on two different soundstages at WB. \"We bicycled Jeff (series star Jeffrey Hunter) and Elam (supporting star Jack Elam) between the two companies, and Bill shot 'em both in four-and-a-half days. Two complete one-hour shows!\" recalled Lydon.\n\n\"Temple Houston\" ended after its 26-week run. In a 1965 interview with \"The Milwaukee Journal,\" Hunter described the situation:\n\nShortly after leaving his position at Warner Bros., Webb teamed with Universal Television to begin work on a new \"Dragnet\" series. A pilot telefilm, based on the Harvey Glatman serial killings, was produced in 1966 for NBC, with Webb's Sgt. Joe Friday joined by Harry Morgan as Officer Bill Gannon. (Webb had tried to get Ben Alexander to reprise his role as Frank Smith, but he was unable to get Alexander to leave the ABC series \"Felony Squad.\")\n\nThe new \"Dragnet\" premiered as a midseason replacement series on January 12, 1967, and aired until April 16, 1970. To distinguish it from the original series, the year of production was added to the title (\"Dragnet 1967,\" \"Dragnet 1968,\" etc.). The revival emphasized crime prevention and outreach to the public. Its attempts to address the contemporary youth-drug culture (such as \"The LSD Story\" episode, guest-starring Michael Burns as Benjamin John \"Blue Boy\" Carver, voted 85th-best TV episode of all time by \"TV Guide\" and TV Land) have led certain episodes on the topic to achieve cult status due to their strained attempts to be \"with-it\", such as Joe Friday grilling \"Blue Boy\" by asking him, \"You're pretty high and far out, aren't you? What kind of kick are you on, son?\" Don Dubbins, who had acted alongside Webb in \"The D.I.\" in 1957, was another featured actor in Mark VII Limited programs beginning in the 1960s.\n\nIn 1968, Webb and his production partner R.A. Cinader launched \"Adam-12\" on NBC. A spinoff of \"Dragnet,\" \"Adam-12\" starred Martin Milner and Kent McCord as a pair of LAPD beat cops, and followed their escapades while on patrol. Running till 1975, for a total of seven seasons, \"Adam-12\" was Webb's second-longest running television series, with the eight seasons recorded by the original \"Dragnet\" being the longest.\n\nAlso in 1968, Webb and Johnny Carson performed a sketch on \"The Tonight Show\" that has since become known as the \"Copper Clapper Caper\" sketch. Webb, in character as Joe Friday, was working on the case of a robbery at a school-bell factory. Carson played the owner of the factory and victim of the theft, which consisted of each bell being relieved of its clapper (the device that makes the bell ring). The sketch's dialogue consisted of Webb and Carson discussing the situation in deadpan style and using alliteration and tongue twisters to describe the incident, each word having either a \"c\" or \"cl\" sound at the beginning. Both Webb and Carson tried desperately not to lose composure, but both did, near the end of the sketch.\n\nIn 1970, Webb decided to bring an end to \"Dragnet\" and cease acting to focus on expanding Mark VII Limited's production profile. In 1971, Webb entered the world of district attorneys and federal government work with two series. The first, \"The D.A.\", starred Robert Conrad and Harry Morgan as a pair of Los Angeles County ADAs, with Conrad playing a junior ADA and Morgan his superior. The second, \"O'Hara, United States Treasury,\" was a co-production of Webb and David Janssen, the former star of \"The Fugitive\" and future star of \"Harry O,\" for CBS (a rare non-NBC Mark VII effort) and featured Janssen as a Nebraska county sheriff-turned-United States Treasury Department agent. Neither series lasted very long, as \"The D.A.,\" Webb's last 30-minute series, was cancelled after 15 episodes and \"O'Hara\" ended after 22.\n\nLater in the 1971–72 season, Webb and Cinader launched \"Emergency!\", a spin-off of \"Adam-12\", which focused on the fictional Station 51 Rescue Squad of L.A. County Fire Department, which also featured one of the first paramedic units, and its work in conjunction with the emergency room staff of the fictional Rampart General Hospital. Webb cast his ex-wife, Julie London, as well as her second husband and \"Dragnet\" ensemble player Bobby Troup, as head nurse Dixie McCall and Dr. Joe Early, respectively, with Randolph Mantooth and Kevin Tighe playing paramedics John Gage and Roy DeSoto and Robert Fuller playing Dr. Kelly Brackett, Rampart's Chief of Emergency Medicine.\n\n\"Emergency!\" ran as part of NBC's Saturday-night lineup for six entire seasons, and it was a popular series, sometimes winning its time slot against CBS's popular Saturday-night comedy block, which included \"All in the Family.\" The series came to an end in 1977, but it spawned a series of telefilms that ran until 1979. Webb's company and Universal also contracted with animator Fred Calvert to produce a spin-off Saturday-morning cartoon show for NBC titled \"Emergency +4,\" which ran for three seasons (the last in reruns) and featured the paramedics Gage and DeSoto assisted by four youngsters and their three pets.\n\n\"Emergency!\" was Webb's last sustained success. Of the remaining series his company produced, the only two that lasted longer than one season were \"Hec Ramsey,\" a two-season component of the \"NBC Mystery Movie\" wheel series that featured former \"Have Gun – Will Travel\" star Richard Boone as a pioneering forensic scientist in the Old West, and \"Project UFO\", an anthology based on the investigations into UFOs as compiled by Project Bluebook that also ran for two seasons beginning in 1978.\n\nIn 1987, Dan Aykroyd and Tom Hanks starred in a movie parody (and homage) to Webb, titled \"Dragnet\", along with Harry Morgan, who reprised his role from the television series as William Gannon, who had by now become a captain of detectives. The comedy film was written and directed by Tom Mankiewicz, in his directorial debut. Aykroyd acted out the role of Joe Friday, described as the nephew of the original series lead, while Hanks co-starred as Detective Officer Pep Streebeck, Friday's new smart-alecky and streetwise partner.\n\nWebb's personal life was better defined by his love of jazz than his interest in police work. He had a collection of more than 6,000 jazz recordings. His lifelong interest in the cornet allowed him to move easily in the jazz culture, where he met singer and actress Julie London. They married in 1947 and had daughters Stacy (1950–1996) and Lisa, born 1952. They divorced in 1954. He was married three more times after that, to Dorothy Towne for two years beginning in 1955, to former Miss USA Jackie Loughery for six years beginning in 1958, and to his longtime associate, Opal Wright, for the last two years of his life.\n\nStacy Webb authorized and collaborated on a book, \"Just the Facts, Ma'am; The Authorized Biography of Jack Webb, Creator of Dragnet, Adam-12, and Emergency!,\" of which Daniel Moyer and Eugene Alvarez were the primary authors. It was published in 1999. Stacy did not live to see the publication of the book, having been killed in a collision with a California Highway Patrol car three years earlier.\n\nDespite his string of short-lived series in the late 1970s, Webb still kept trying to recapture his previous success and decided to bring \"Dragnet\" back to television for a third series in 1983. Five scripts had been produced and Kent McCord, one of the stars of \"Adam-12,\" was cast as Joe Friday's new partner.\n\nWebb died on December 23, 1982, of an apparent heart attack at age 62. He is interred at Sheltering Hills Plot 1999, Forest Lawn, Hollywood Hills Cemetery in Los Angeles, and was given a funeral with full Los Angeles police honors. On Webb's death, Chief Daryl Gates announced that badge number 714, which was used by Joe Friday in \"Dragnet,\" would be retired. Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley ordered all flags lowered to half staff in Webb's honor for a day, and Webb was buried with a replica LAPD badge bearing the rank of sergeant and the number 714.\n\nJack Webb has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, one for radio (at 7040 Hollywood Boulevard) and the other for television (at 6728 Hollywood Boulevard). In 1992, Webb was posthumously inducted into the Television Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3603031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3603031", "title": "Jacob Cornelis Matthieu Radermacher", "text": "Jacob Cornelis Matthieu Radermacher\n\nJacob Cornelis Matthieu (J. C. M.) Radermacher (1741 – 24 December 1783) was a Dutch botanist and author.\n\nRadermacher was born in The Hague, Holland. He was an officer of the Dutch East India Company (VOC) in Batavia (Jakarta) as well as a talented naturalist. Born into an influential Dutch family, his father was Jacob Cornelis Radermacher (1700-1748), who was treasurer-general to the prince. His uncle and his nephew were members of the Board of Directors of the VOC. In 1757, then only sixteen years old, he had traveled to Indonesian to work as a merchant for the VOC. On 21 May 1761 Jacob married Margaretha Sophia Verijssel. In 1762 Radermacher created a Freemasonic circle in Batavia becoming the first Freemasonic lodge in Asia. In 1763 he returned to Holland to continue his studies, and graduated in law at Harderwijk. After graduation on 13 June 1766 he established himself as a lawyer in Arnhem. After a short time, Radermacher made the decision to return to Batavia. On 20 December 1766 with his wife Margaretha and two sons Frans Reinier and Johannes Cornelis, they boarded the ship \"Tulpenburg\" bound for Indonesia. His youngest son, Johannes Cornelis, still an infant, died within one month of their departure. By 1776, Radermacher was promoted by the VOC to title of \"Extra-Ordinair Council of India\".\n\nDuring his years in Batavia, Radermacher was a staunch promoter of the arts and sciences in the Far East. On 24 April 1778 he founded the Batavian Society of Arts and Sciences (\"Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en etenschappen\"). He also donated a substantial amount of writings and collections to start the museum. During this time he also catalogued a significant amount of flora and fauna of the islands of Java and Sumatra. The trees of the genus \"Radermachera\" are named for him.\n\nBy 1781 Radermacher was named Commissioner Concerning the Fleet and the Army, and Common Council of India. After the death of his first wife, he married Bataviase Anna Bosch. For health reasons in 1783, he requested permission to return to Holland. However, while en route home in the Indian Ocean on 24 December, there was a mutiny on board the ship and Radermacher was murdered.\n\n\"Jaarboek van de Maatschappij der Nederlandse Letterkunde, 1988\"\n"}
{"id": "58768048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58768048", "title": "Jafar ibn Ali al-Hadi", "text": "Jafar ibn Ali al-Hadi\n\nJafar b. Ali b. Muḥammad ( 226-271 A.H.) who was known to Ja’far Kazzab and he was the son of the tenth Imam, Ali al-Hadi. By adventures, he established Ja’fariyyas of the sect. \nJafar b. Ali b. Muḥammad ( 226-271 A.H.) was the son of the tenth Imam, Ali al-Hadi and the brother of eleventh Imam Hasan al-Askari. Also, he had one older brother, Muhammad who died before his father's death. \nAfter the death of Ali al-Hadi, Jafar b. Ali claimed Imamate and he founded followers.The biographers attribute to him as Kazzab (liar).Muhammadyyas and Twelver believes that he was immoral.\nHowever, it is unexpected that Shia considers Imam as one who acts contrary to the orders of religion but it seems that these reports are somewhat correct. For his followers in defense of him, said: \"Jafar's personality changed comparison when he was young.\"He tried to be al-Askari in jail, though he always failed in his efforts.Jafar b. Ali's followers became famous Ja’fariyyas and al-Askari's followers were known Twelver. \nAfter the death of Hasan al-Askari, even though,al-Askari's mother was still alive, Jafar requested his property. He claimed that his brother never had a son.On the other hand, according to the Mohammad-Baqer Majlesi, he hid his son, for fear of his brother, Jafar, who was coveted to his property.\nLater, between Twelver, he became famous to Ja’far, The Liar (Kazzab) and when he repented, he got the title of Tawwab (the repentant). \n\n"}
{"id": "33223493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33223493", "title": "Japanese submarine I-180", "text": "Japanese submarine I-180\n\nJapanese submarine \"I-180 (originally I-80\") was a \"Kaidai\" type (\"KD7\" sub-class) cruiser submarine of the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II. Ordered in 1939 under the 4th Naval Armaments Supplement Programme, she was laid down at the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal on 17 April 1941 as \"I-80\". Launched on 7 February 1942, she was renumbered \"I-180\" on 20 May 1942, and completed on 15 January 1943.\n\nAt the end of March 1943, with her sister ships \"I-177\" and \"I-178\", \"I-180\" departed from Truk to patrol off the east coast of Australia. There she torpedoed and sank the Australian merchant ship on 29 April 1943, the Norwegian merchant ship on 5 May 1943, and damaged the Australian merchant vessels \"Ormiston\" and \"Caradale\" on 12 May 1943.\n\nIn mid-July 1943 \"I-180\" was diverted from her patrol to Kolombangara in the Solomon Islands, arriving in the aftermath of the battle and rescuing 21 survivors from the light cruiser .\n\nOn 12 October 1943, the Allies launched an air offensive against Rabaul, with 349 aircraft attacking the port and airfields. During the attack \"I-180\" sustained a direct hit which wrecked her superstructure and prevented her from diving. She sailed on the surface back to Sasebo for repairs and was operational again early the next year.\n\nIn late March 1944 she sailed from Ominato to patrol off the Aleutian Islands. On 19 April she sank the liberty ship SS \"John Straub\", and almost certainly also sank the Soviet cargo ship \"Pavlin Vinogradov\" on 22 April.\n\nLate on 25 April, she was detected while surfaced by the destroyer escort south-west of Chirikof Island. The submarine promptly crash dived, and over the next three hours \"Gilmore\" laid down three barrages of Mark 10 \"Hedgehog\" anti-submarine mortar shells without result, and then two patterns of depth charges, before finally seeing a heavy underwater explosion at 01:12 on 26 April at . On 20 May 1944 \"I-180\" was presumed lost, along with all people on board dead, and on 10 July 1944 was removed from the Navy List.\n"}
{"id": "27087481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27087481", "title": "Jeitinho", "text": "Jeitinho\n\nJeitinho (, literally \"little way\") is finding a way to accomplish something by circumventing or bending the rules or social conventions. Most times it is harmless, made for basic ordinary opportunistic advantages, as gatecrashing a party just to get free food and beverage. But sometimes it is used for questionable, serious violations, where an individual can use emotional resources, blackmail, family ties, promises, rewards or money to obtain (sometimes illegal) favors or to get advantage. Some people see it as a typically Brazilian method of social navigation, but people forget to mention that this expression also comes from the necessity associated to a lack of resources and help. Most Brazilians have to be creative and invent new simpler ways to do things they need, as living.\n\nThe word \"jeitinho\" is the diminutive form of \"jeito\", which comes from the expression \"dar um jeito\", meaning \"to find a way\". It implies the use of resources at hand, as well as personal connections, and creativity. \"Como é que ele conseguiu os bilhetes?\" How did he get the tickets? \"Ele deu um jeito.\" He found a way.\n\nOne way to understand jeitinho is as a \"recurso de esperteza\", which means a resource used by \"espertos\" — savvy, cunning, or sly individuals who use common sense and prior knowledge, as well as naturally gifted intelligence in their thought processes. It implies that a person is \"street-smart\", but not necessarily \"book-smart.\" It typically also connotes opportunism, pragmatism, and using one's networks, with little regard for the law, the state or for persons outside of one's own circle or family.\n\nBrazilian scholar and historian Sérgio Buarque de Hollanda connects the concept of jeitinho to Brazil's mixed heritage and Iberian ancestry in his book \"Roots of Brazil\" (Raízes do Brasil). In this work, jeitinho is tied to the idea that a typical Brazilian is a friendly, cordial man, prone to making initial decisions based on his emotions instead of his reason, and that this feature can be found everywhere in the country, from the highest offices of government to the most common situations of everyday life. Jeitinho is also observed in Rio de Janeiro's carnival industry by the scholar Roberto DaMatta in his book \"Carnavais, Malandros e Heróis\" (Carnival, Rogues and Heroes. Notre Dame Press). Da Matta sees jeitinho in the creative culture of carnival.\n\nThe terms \"malandro\" and \"malandragem\", which can be roughly translated as \"rogue\" and \"roguishness\", are very similar to the \"jeitinho\", but these terms imply a greater degree of breaking the rules, as opposed to bending the rules.\n\nElsewhere in Latin America, similar concepts include \"viveza criolla\" in Argentina and Uruguay, and \"malicia indígena\" in Colombia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28115622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28115622", "title": "Liberty Bartlett", "text": "Liberty Bartlett\n\nLiberty Bartlett (born 1810) was a circuit judge in Arkansas.\n\nBartlett was born in 1810 in Williamstown, Massachusetts. He lived in California for a time, and later moved to Arkansas. He became a circuit judge of the fifth circuit in Little Rock on November 12, 1854.\n\nJudge Bartlett attempted to establish a settlement in 1872, at the present site of Marche, Arkansas. The settlement, which would have been named Bartlett Springs, did not succeed, and the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railroad ended up acquiring the property and naming it Warren Station. It was later named Marche, and settled by Polish immigrants.\n\nBartlett was reported to have lived to \"extreme old age.\"\n"}
{"id": "25764023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25764023", "title": "List of Philadelphia Police Department officers who died in the line of duty", "text": "List of Philadelphia Police Department officers who died in the line of duty\n\nThe following Philadelphia Police Department (PPD) officers died in the line of duty or were killed off-duty.\n\nKey\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12481579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12481579", "title": "List of ghosts", "text": "List of ghosts\n\nThe following is a list of ghosts:\n\n\n\nINDIA\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18716400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18716400", "title": "Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment", "text": "Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment\n\nThe Living Interplanetary Flight Experiment (LIFE or Phobos LIFE) was an interplanetary mission developed by the Planetary Society. It consisted of sending selected microorganisms on a three-year interplanetary round-trip in a small capsule aboard the Russian Fobos-Grunt spacecraft in 2011, which was a failed sample-return mission to the Martian moon Phobos. The Fobos-Grunt mission failed to leave Earth orbit, and was destroyed.\n\nThe goal was to test whether selected organisms can survive an as yet undetermined number of years in deep space by flying them through interplanetary space. The experiment would have tested one aspect of transpermia, the hypothesis that life could survive space travel, if protected inside rocks blasted by impact off one planet to land on another.\n\nPrior to the \"Phobos LIFE\" experiment, a precursor \"LIFE\" prototype was successfully flown in 2011 aboard the final flight of Space Shuttle Endeavour, STS-134. Known as the Shuttle-LIFE (also LIFE) experiment.\n\nThe project includes representatives of all three domains of life: bacteria, eukaryota and archaea. The capsule was transporting 10 types of organisms in 30 self-contained samples, i.e., each in triplicate. In addition, one or more natural native soil samples were flown in their own self-contained capsule. The Phobos-Soil sample return mission was the only attempted biological science mission that would have returned to Earth from deep space, far beyond the protection of Earth’s magnetic field; sending biological samples through deep space is therefore a much better test of interplanetary survivability than sending the samples on a typical Earth-orbiting flight.\n\nThe project was being done in collaboration with the Russian Space Research Institute, the Institute for Biomedical Problems of the Russian Academy of Sciences, the Moscow State University, the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), and the Institute for Aerospace Medicine in Germany.\n\nThree fundamental guidelines governed the selection of the organisms: First, the organisms selected represent the three domains of life – eukaryote, bacteria and archaea. Second, the organisms are very well studied (e.g., having their genome sequenced and studied in many other experiments) to make it possible to accurately assess the effects of the long exposure to space. If they had already been studied in space conditions so much the better, since it would enable researchers to pinpoint precisely how organisms were affected by the years-long exposure to the interplanetary environment. Finally, a strong preference was given to organisms that appear to stand the best chance of surviving the journey. These are extremophiles, organisms that thrive in conditions that would kill the vast majority of Earthly creatures.\n\nThe 10 'passenger' organisms selected are listed below:\n\nBacteria\nArchaea\nEukaryote\n\nThe mass of the Bio-Module on board the Fobos-Grunt spacecraft was 100 grams or less. The design is a short cylinder. The bio-module provided 30 small tubes (3 millimeters in diameter) for individual microbe samples. It also accommodated a native sample of bacteria – derived from a permafrost region on Earth – within a cavity 26 mm in diameter.\n\nThe module passed stress tests including a shake test with vibrations at frequencies to 1,100 Hz and an impact test of 4,000 g, designed to simulate the potential impact of the capsule on Earth. The LIFE experiment was launched on November 8, 2011 on board the Fobos-Grunt, however, the spacecraft failed to depart Earth orbit due to a programming error, and fell back to Earth in the Pacific Ocean. The module was not recovered. The team is seeking out future exploratory opportunities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4069143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4069143", "title": "Magog (comics)", "text": "Magog (comics)\n\nMagog is a fictional character in the comic books published by DC Comics, generally as an enemy and foil personality of Superman. He first appeared in \"Kingdom Come\" #1 (May 1996), and was created by Mark Waid and Alex Ross. In 2009, Magog was ranked as IGN's 75th Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time. In \"Kingdom Come\", Magog's lack of conventional heroic qualities of idealism puts him at odds with Superman's morality. After taking over Superman's place within the world's superhero community, his reckless actions with other would-be superheroes ultimately caused a nuclear disaster in Midwestern United States; overwhelmed by guilt, he then realizes that Superman was right and seeks to atone for his crimes. In 2008, a parallel universe version of the character is introduced in DC Comics' main continuity; his destiny seemingly parallel to the original version's and some fear him due to their awareness of his counterpart's actions, yet granting him a benefit of doubt to prove himself as a true hero differs from his doppelgänger.\n\nMagog debuted in the first issue of the Elseworlds mini-series \"Kingdom Come\" in May 1996. Within this possible future, he represents the violent, modern-style heroes who come into conflict with the classic, moralistic heroes of the past.\n\n\"Kingdom Come\" is a graphic novel rife with biblical references. Gog and Magog are both biblical characters from the Book of Genesis, the Book of Ezekiel, and the Book of Revelation as well as names that appear in a variety of subsequent legends. In addition to taking his name from the Old Testament, Magog represents the Golden calf, that is, a false idol.\n\nThe character's appearance was based on that of the Marvel Comics character Cable. Magog's character design was based on superhero design trends of the time, especially Cable, and Cable's creator Rob Liefeld himself. Alex Ross stated, \"As I remember, Mark originally told me, 'Make him look like everything we hate in modern superhero design.'\" Ross has gone into more detail in an interview with Comic Book Resources:\n\nThe character was featured in \"Justice Society of America\" vol. 3. Introduced in \"Justice Society of America\" (vol. 3) #12 as Lance, the character was introduced as Magog in \"Justice Society of America\" (vol. 3) #18.\n\nFollowing the appearance in \"Justice Society of America\", the character received his own eponymous title, written by Keith Giffen and penciled by Howard Porter. Giffen commented on the series and his reaction to character:\n\nScott Kolins took over the series with issue #11 as both writer and artist. However, the planned five-issue story was cut to two when the series was canceled with issue #12 because of low sales, but the story would be finished in a double-sized issue of \"Justice Society of America Special\" #1.\n\nMagog, \"The New Man of Tomorrow,\" is a hero with a rising career in the last days of Superman's declining popularity. His true origins are never revealed in the story. His most controversial act at the time was killing the Joker, who was in custody for the murder of Lois Lane and dozens of other members of the \"Daily Planet\". Magog then surrenders to Superman and the authorities. When put on trial for murder, Magog is acquitted, the feeling being that it is time for psychotic super-villains like the Joker to be killed off rather than preserve the belief of heroes of Superman's generation that all life is sacred no matter what the crime or risk of recidivism.\n\nSuperman publicly denounces Magog and the acquittal, prompting Magog to challenge him to a fight. Superman, disgusted with the verdict, refuses the challenge and instead goes into self-imposed exile. During the next ten years, a new generation of heroes following Magog's violent approach begins to arise. Magog himself begins operating with a team of heroes known as the Justice Battalion (a group composed of characters based on the heroes of Charlton Comics, who also inspired Alan Moore's \"Watchmen\"). During a one-sided and unnecessarily brutal battle with the villainous Parasite, Magog's teammate Captain Atom is critically injured, causing him to explode with the force of an atomic bomb. This disaster leaves Kansas completely destroyed, over a million people killed, and much of America's heartland is covered in deadly radiation, destabilizing the American economy.\n\nMagog and Alloy are the only survivors of the Kansas blast. This cataclysm is the event which finally draws Superman and many of the heroes of his generation out of retirement, thus leading to the story's inevitable generational conflict. Initially, Magog is considered the most wanted and dangerous criminal in the world and is hunted by Superman's new Justice League. They finally confront him as he tries with little success to put some small order back amongst the ruins of Kansas. Superman goads him with the remark \"You must be proud (of this destruction)\", which results in Magog lashing out at the Man of Steel, blaming him for the present crisis since he would not adapt to modern ways. After the attack fails to harm Superman, Magog quietly surrenders. It becomes apparent that he is traumatized by his experience and seeks forgiveness.\n\nHe is taken into custody by the League and held in their special prison where he and others are lectured about their violent ways, although Magog appears to spend most of his time remorsefully in his cell. However, the jail's walls are pierced by a brainwashed Captain Marvel and in the battle that follows, Magog noticeably avoids fighting and just sticks to saving as many lives as he can. At the end of \"Kingdom Come\", Magog retires to Paradise Island, where he is seen caring for the crippled Japanese superheroine Tokyo Rose, and giving Swastika a hard clout when he fails to show proper respect to Wonder Woman and the Amazons. In the Elliot S! Maggin novelization, it is revealed that Magog even becomes the Dean of Students at Themyscira.\n\nLance Corporal David Reid, great-grandson of Franklin D. Roosevelt, was with the Marine platoon assigned to halt the looting of the National Museum of Iraq during the Iraq War. Reid tracked one of the looters and found an artifact that was a stone fragment of the Old God Gog. Upon touching it, Reid blacked out, waking up three weeks later to find that he was now filled with plasma energy and that a mark shaped like the Eye of Providence had opened up on his left arm. With the aid of a pointed hand-held device (which earned him the nickname \"Lance\"), Reid was able to project focused blasts of energy.\n\nBecause the modern Justice Society of America tries to keep the legacies of former heroes alive, and because Franklin Roosevelt was credited with bringing the JSA together in the first place, the Society asked Reid to join them.\n\nWhen the Justice Society encounters the Third World survivor Gog, several of their number have themselves \"healed\" by him. When Gog sets out to save a village from a rogue military attack, the JSA assist him. During the conflict, Lance is struck by an RPG missile and killed. Gog stands over Lance and brings him back to life, replacing his ruined left arm and right eye with gold metal. Gog then dubs Reid Magog. Thankful for Gog's gift, Magog then leads half of the Justice Society in support of Gog, using his staff to send the members who don't agree with Gog's ways back to the Justice Society's headquarters. The Justice Society discovers that Gog is rooting himself to the Earth, which would cause the planet's destruction if he were ever to leave, and seek to destroy Gog to prevent this. Magog protects Gog until he sees him remove the gifts he gave to the Justice Society and use the corpses of Mister Terrific's wife and Alan Scott's daughter to torture them. Magog then turns on Gog as well. Gog orders Magog to serve him or have his gift of life taken from him. Magog refuses, saying that he would rather die than live without freedom. The Society finally manages to topple Gog, and Magog beheads him with his staff. After Gog's head is removed from his body, his effects on the Justice Society are reversed, except for Magog, who for some reason remains in his altered state.\n\nSoon after, David leaves the JSA, returning to his family's farm. He later returns to the team, but his military training causes him to chafe under the Society's comparatively lax security and combat ethics. After the team barely survives a mass supervillain attack and returns to the brownstone to find Mister Terrific had been stabbed by All-American Kid, Magog greatly voices his disdain for the Society's methods, even getting into a brief altercation with the original Wildcat.\n\nAfter the split that occurs in the Justice Society, Magog forms and joins the newly formed All-Stars (a team composed mostly of the Justice Society's younger heroes), alongside Power Girl, and helps lead the team along with her. The team has a new ongoing series beginning December 2, 2009, written by Matt Sturges and illustrated by Freddie Williams II.\n\nIn September 2009, a Magog solo series was launched, written by Keith Giffen and illustrated by Howard Porter. The series, while loosely tied into the events of \"Justice Society of America\" (vol. 3) and the \"JSA All-Stars\" spin-off series, focuses on Magog as his own character. As such, Giffen gave Magog his own rogues gallery as well as explored Magog's origin, powers, and relationships. The series was canceled with issue #12 because of low sales.\n\nThe first story arc revolves around Magog's origins and his fight against a mysterious weapons-development group called Flashpoint, run by the warden of Haven Prison (first introduced in the pages of \"52\"), D.P. Macklin. Magog meets his mother, a high-ranking woman called Alba, Firstborn of the Thirty-Three and Duchess of Blighted Albion, and his friend Axel, a former soldier who owns a gasoline station and auto repair shop who has created a souped-up search engine called Mirage, and teaches a young waitress named Lauren self-defense techniques after noticing that she is being beaten regularly by the man she lives with. Additionally, Magog meets and fights a once-rich, now-deformed homeless man known as Miasma, who was the leader of an underground city.\n\nWhen Magog attacks Haven's underground Flashpoint facilities, D.P. Macklin contacts the Justice Society of America and frames Magog for the ensuing prison break. After a lengthy skirmish with both prisoners and his fellow JSA members, Magog is officially kicked out of the All-Stars.\n\nIn recent events, Axel has surmised that David Reid may, in fact, be possessed by an extradimensional entity, which is the root of his powers. Magog is skeptical of such allegations, and a visit with Zatanna has turned up no evidence to support Axel's theory thus far.\n\nIn the final issue, Magog faces his old friend Eric, who is now the cyborg warrior N.I.L.8., along with his group who are using Gog's technology to bring destruction.\n\nMagog finds he has been controlled by the cult of Gog. When the Justice Society learn of Gog's technology, they arrive to save the planet. The JSA free Magog from the cult's control and he destroys N.I.L.8. Magog seemingly sacrifices himself when he finds the heart of Gog's technology and defeats it. He awakens in Albion with his enemy Kiera at his side. He refuses to be a pawn any longer and walks away.\n\nFollowing the events of \"Blackest Night\", murderer and former Justice League International founder Maxwell Lord is returned to life and uses his psychic abilities to erase his existence from the memories of all but a handful of people. Lord then uses his powers to influence several high-ranking members of the military into believing Captain Atom should be apprehended for alleged wrongdoings. Magog is called in to restrain Atom in the event that he tries to flee, but ultimately fails as the hero defeats him and escapes.\n\nShortly after this event, Maxwell Lord is informed by the Entity that he has been resurrected in order to prevent Magog from instigating a massive war involving Earth's metahumans. Max then sees a vision of himself killing a distraught Magog with Magog's own staff as Magog begs for mercy. Max later sees a vision of the future where a team led by Magog attacks Parasite. Parasite's absorption of Captain Atom causes an explosion that destroys everything within a large radius and annihilates over a million people (tying into the \"Kingdom Come\" future).\n\nAfterward, Magog is seen talking to Max who instructs Magog to find and kill Captain Atom. To this end, Max upgrades Magog's staff, giving him \"the right tools for the job\". Magog then locates the JLI at OMAC factory and attacks Captain Atom. In their battle, Captain Atom manages to convince Magog he's being used and Magog remembers Max's existence; however, Max is on hand using his powers to force Magog to kill himself with his own staff, then makes everyone in the vicinity believe Captain Atom killed Magog. After Max escapes and undoes the global mindwipe, he released a statement onto the Internet exonerating Captain Atom of the deaths in Chicago, saying far worse would have happened if he had not intervened.\n\nThe New 52 reboot of Magog occurred in Superman/Wonder Woman # 13–17. Superman and Wonder Woman are now a romantic couple. They repel an invasion of parademons on Metropolis, but there are civilian casualties, including David Reid's mother (which he blames on them). Five years later, the two heroes are fighting two super-villains. A new hero, Wonderstar, a.k.a. David Reid who has amnesia, aids them. He seems to idolize Superman and Wonder Woman. Later in issue #14, Wonderstar's powers go out of control. Superman and Wonder Woman restrain him until a magic portal appears in the sky, dropping a golden staff weapon that looks like a two-pronged trident. Wonderstar touches it and becomes Magog. Circe the witch, Wonder Woman's archenemy, had cast spells to turn David Reid into Magog and make his wish come true (revenge on Superman and Wonder Woman). In Superman/Wonder Woman #17, Circe's desire is for Diana to suffer and watch the death of Superman. Circe captures the couple and gloats, but when Wonder Woman outsmarts her, Circe retreats from Superman through a magic portal admitting defeat. Magog is defeated by Wonder Woman and deprived of his now-powerless staff, reverting him to a 10-year-old boy.\n\n\nReid possesses great amounts of plasma energy within him, which were originally focused into energy blasts by the device on his left arm. After his resurrection as Magog, his left arm is now metal and his energy blasts are focused through a staff given to him by Gog. He also possesses enhanced strength and endurance as the original Magog did. The staff was later upgraded by Max Lord to emit a form of radiation that harmed Captain Atom. He is capable of flight, as well as teleportation of himself and others, though this last ability has not been seen since Gog's death. Keith Giffen, however, has stated that much of his power remains unexplored for the time being. When powered up, Magog is granted enhanced vision in his blind eye (despite the fact it keeps the appearance of a pupiless orb) and is able to switch to infrared or tap into more exotic wavelengths.\n\nMagog is also able to take on a more normal appearance, with skin (or a close approximation of it) magically covering his right arm. However, as David Reid, Magog is half-blind and scarred.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the 2011 \"Flashpoint\" storyline, David Reid was a member of Team 7, an elite unit of soldiers led by Grifter. David and most of his teammates were ultimately killed during a botched attack on a terrorist training camp.\n\nDavid Reid appears in the \"Young Justice\" episode \"Failsafe\", voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. He is depicted as a soldier who fought under General Wade Eiling during an alien invasion that took out the members of the Justice League. The events of this episode turned out to be a mind-training exercise conducted by Martian Manhunter that went horribly wrong.\n\n"}
{"id": "4910160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4910160", "title": "Marguerite De La Motte", "text": "Marguerite De La Motte\n\nMarguerite De La Motte (June 22, 1902 – March 10, 1950) was an American film actress, most notably of the silent film era.\n\nBorn in Duluth, Minnesota, De La Motte was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph De La Motte. She was a 1917 graduate of the Egan School of drama, music, and dancing.\n\nDe La Motte began her entertainment career studying ballet under Anna Pavlova. In 1919, she became the dance star of Sid Grauman on the stage of his theater. In 1918, at the age of 16, she made her screen debut in the Douglas Fairbanks, Sr directed romantic comedy film \"Arizona\". In 1920, both of her parents died, her mother in January in an automobile accident and her father in August from heart disease. Film producer J.L. Frothingham assumed guardianship of her and her younger brother.\n\nDe La Motte spent the 1920s appearing in numerous films, often cast by Douglas Fairbanks, Sr. to play opposite him in swashbuckling adventure films such as 1920's \"The Mark of Zorro\" and \"The Three Musketeers\". She developed a close friendship with Fairbanks and his wife, actress Mary Pickford.\nHer career as an actress slowed dramatically at the end of the silent film era of the 1920s. She did continue acting in bit parts through the sound era and made her final appearance in the 1942 film \"Overland Mail\" opposite both Noah Beery, Sr. and Noah Beery, Jr., as well as Lon Chaney, Jr.\n\nDe La Motte was married twice. She first wed silent film actor John Bowers in 1924, who was then a matinee idol of the silver screen. The couple were separated at the time when Bowers committed suicide in 1936. De La Motte later married attorney Sidney H. Rivkin whom she later divorced after four years of marriage. Her cousin, Clete Roberts, was an American war correspondent and journalist, who appeared in two episodes of the television series \"M*A*S*H*\" in the 1970s.\nAfter her film career ended, De La Motte worked as an inspector in a southern California war plant during World War II. Later she came to San Francisco, California, where she worked in the Red Cross office.\n\nOn March 10, 1950, De La Motte died of cerebral thrombosis in San Francisco at the age of 47. \n\nOn February 8, 1960, De La Motte was awarded a star in the Motion Pictures section of the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6902 Hollywood Blvd., in Hollywood, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392192", "title": "Medusa", "text": "Medusa\n\nIn Greek mythology, Medusa (; Μέδουσα \"guardian, protectress\") was a monster, a Gorgon, generally described as a winged human female with living venomous snakes in place of hair. Those who gazed upon her face would turn to stone. Most sources describe her as the daughter of Phorcys and Ceto, though the author Hyginus makes her the daughter of Gorgon and Ceto. According to Hesiod and Aeschylus, she lived and died on an island named Sarpedon, somewhere near Cisthene. The 2nd-century BCE novelist Dionysios Skytobrachion puts her somewhere in Libya, where Herodotus had said the Berbers originated her myth, as part of their religion.\n\nMedusa was beheaded by the hero Perseus, who thereafter used her head, which retained its ability to turn onlookers to stone, as a weapon until he gave it to the goddess Athena to place on her shield. In classical antiquity the image of the head of Medusa appeared in the evil-averting device known as the \"Gorgoneion\".\n\nThe three Gorgon sisters—Medusa, Stheno, and Euryale—were all children of the ancient marine deities Phorcys (or \"Phorkys\") and his sister Ceto (or \"Keto\"), chthonic monsters from an archaic world. Their genealogy is shared with other sisters, the Graeae, as in Aeschylus's \"Prometheus Bound\", which places both trinities of sisters far off \"on Kisthene's dreadful plain\":\n\nNear them their sisters three, the Gorgons, winged\nWith snakes for hair— hatred of mortal man—\n\nWhile ancient Greek vase-painters and relief carvers imagined Medusa and her sisters as having monstrous form, sculptors and vase-painters of the fifth century began to envisage her as being beautiful as well as terrifying. In an ode written in 490 BC Pindar already speaks of \"fair-cheeked Medusa\".\n\nIn a late version of the Medusa myth, related by the Roman poet Ovid (\"Metamorphoses\" 4.770), Medusa was originally a ravishingly beautiful maiden, \"the jealous aspiration of many suitors,\" but because Poseidon had raped her in Athena's temple, the enraged Athena transformed Medusa's beautiful hair to serpents and made her face so terrible to behold that the mere sight of it would turn onlookers to stone. In Ovid's telling, Perseus describes Medusa's punishment by Minerva (Athena) as just and well earned.\nIn most versions of the story, she was beheaded by the hero Perseus, who was sent to fetch her head by King Polydectes of Seriphus because Polydectes wanted to marry his mother. The gods were well aware of this, and Perseus received help. He received a mirrored shield from Athena, gold, winged sandals from Hermes, a sword from Hephaestus and Hades's helm of invisibility. Since Medusa was the only one of the three Gorgons who was mortal, Perseus was able to slay her while looking at the reflection from the mirrored shield he received from Athena. During that time, Medusa was pregnant by Poseidon. When Perseus beheaded her, Pegasus, a winged horse, and Chrysaor, a giant wielding a golden sword, sprang from her body.\n\nJane Ellen Harrison argues that \"her potency only begins when her head is severed, and that potency resides in the head; she is in a word a mask with a body later appended... the basis of the Gorgoneion is a cultus object, a ritual mask misunderstood.\"\n\nIn the \"Odyssey\" xi, Homer does not specifically mention the Gorgon Medusa:\n\nHarrison's translation states \"the Gorgon was made out of the terror, not the terror out of the Gorgon.\"\n\nAccording to Ovid, in northwest Africa, Perseus flew past the Titan Atlas, who stood holding the sky aloft, and transformed him into stone when he tried to attack him. In a similar manner, the corals of the Red Sea were said to have been formed of Medusa's blood spilled onto seaweed when Perseus laid down the petrifying head beside the shore during his short stay in Ethiopia where he saved and wed his future wife, the lovely princess Andromeda. Furthermore, the poisonous vipers of the Sahara, in the \"Argonautica\" 4.1515, Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" 4.770 and Lucan's\" Pharsalia\" 9.820, were said to have grown from spilt drops of her blood. The blood of Medusa also spawned the Amphisbaena (a horned dragon-like creature with a snake-headed tail).\n\nPerseus then flew to Seriphos, where his mother was being forced into marriage with the king, Polydectes, who was turned into stone by the head. Then Perseus gave the Gorgon's head to Athena, who placed it on her shield, the Aegis.\n\nSome classical references refer to three Gorgons; Harrison considered that the tripling of Medusa into a trio of sisters was a secondary feature in the myth:\n\nA number of early classics scholars interpreted the myth of the Medusa as a quasi-historical – \"based on or reconstructed from an event, custom, style, etc., in the past\", or \"sublimated\" memory of an actual invasion.\n\nAccording to Joseph Campbell:\n\nIn 1940, Sigmund Freud's \"Das Medusenhaupt (Medusa's Head)\" was published posthumously. In Freud's interpretation: \"To decapitate = to castrate. The terror of Medusa is thus a terror of castration that is linked to the sight of something. Numerous analyses have made us familiar with the occasion for this: it occurs when a boy, who has hitherto been unwilling to believe the threat of castration, catches sight of the female genitals, probably those of an adult, surrounded by hair, and essentially those of his mother.\" In this perspective the 'ravishingly beautiful' Medusa (see above) is the mother remembered in innocence; before the mythic truth of castration dawns on the subject. Classic Medusa, in contrast, is an Oedipal/libidinous symptom. Looking at forbidden mother (in her hair-covered genitals, so to speak) stiffens the subject in illicit desire and freezes him in terror of the Father's retribution. There are no recorded instances of Medusa turning a woman to stone.\n\nArchetypal literary criticism continues to find psychoanalysis useful. Beth Seelig analyzes Medusa's punishment from the aspect of the crime of having been raped rather than having willingly consented in Athena's temple as an outcome of the goddess' unresolved conflicts with her own father, Zeus.\n\nIn the 20th century, feminists reassessed Medusa's appearances in literature and in modern culture, including the use of Medusa as a logo by fashion company Versace. The name \"Medusa\" itself is often used in ways not directly connected to the mythological figure but to suggest the gorgon's abilities or to connote malevolence; despite her origins as a beauty, the name in common usage \"came to mean monster.\" The book \"Female Rage: Unlocking Its Secrets, Claiming Its Power\" by Mary Valentis and Anne Devane notes that \"When we asked women what female rage looks like to them, it was always Medusa, the snaky-haired monster of myth, who came to mind ... In one interview after another we were told that Medusa is 'the most horrific woman in the world' ... [though] none of the women we interviewed could remember the details of the myth.\"\n\nMedusa's visage has since been adopted by many women as a symbol of female rage; one of the first publications to express this idea was a feminist journal called \"Women: A Journal of Liberation\" in their issue one, volume six for 1978. The cover featured the image of the Gorgon Medusa by Froggi Lupton, which the editors on the inside cover explained \"can be a map to guide us through our terrors, through the depths of our anger into the sources of our power as women.\"\n\nIn issue three, Fall 1986 for the magazine \"Woman of Power\" an article called \"Gorgons: A Face for Contemporary Women's Rage,\" appeared, written by Emily Erwin Culpepper, who wrote that \"The Amazon Gorgon face is female fury personified. The Gorgon/Medusa image has been rapidly adopted by large numbers of feminists who recognize her as one face of our own rage.\" Griselda Pollock analyses the passage from horrorism to compassion in the figure of the Medusa through Adriana Cavarero's philosophy and Bracha Ettinger's art and Matrixial theory.\n\nMedusa has sometimes appeared as representing notions of scientific determinism and nihilism, especially in contrast with romantic idealism. In this interpretation of Medusa, attempts to avoid looking into her eyes represent avoiding the ostensibly depressing reality that the universe is meaningless. Jack London uses Medusa in this way in his novel \"The Mutiny of the Elsinore\":\n\nMedusa has been depicted in several works of art, including:\n\nMedusa remained a common theme in art in the nineteenth century, when her myth was retold in Thomas Bulfinch's \"Mythology\". Edward Burne-Jones' Perseus Cycle of paintings and a drawing by Aubrey Beardsley gave way to the twentieth century works of Paul Klee, John Singer Sargent, Pablo Picasso, Pierre et Gilles, and Auguste Rodin's bronze sculpture \"\".\n\nThe head of Medusa is featured on some regional symbols. One example is that of the flag and emblem of Sicily, together with the three legged \"trinacria\". The inclusion of Medusa in the center implies the protection of the goddess Athena, who wore the Gorgon's likeness on her aegis, as said above. Another example is the coat of arms of Dohalice village in the Czech Republic.\n\nMedusa is honored in the following scientific names:\n\nThe petrifying image of Medusa makes an instantly recognizable feature in popular culture. Medusa has been featured in several works of fiction, including video games, movies, cartoons and books. In particular, the designer Versace's symbol is reflected through the Medusa-head symbol. It was chosen because she represents beauty, art, and philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49579251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49579251", "title": "Mohammad Aamer (cricketer, born 1979)", "text": "Mohammad Aamer (cricketer, born 1979)\n\nMohammad Aamer (3 April 1979) is a Pakistani first-class cricketer who played for Faisalabad cricket team. He played single List A game.\n"}
{"id": "49165882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49165882", "title": "Nana Afia Kobi Serwaa Ampem II", "text": "Nana Afia Kobi Serwaa Ampem II\n\nNana Afia Kobi Serwaa Ampem II (1907 – 15 November 2016) was the Queen mother (\"Ohemaa\") of the Ashanti Kingdom and mother of the current Asantehene, Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II, who is the youngest son of her five children. She was the 13th Queen mother of the Ashanti Kingdom.\n\nNana Afia Kobi Serwaa Ampem II died on 15 November 2016 in her sleep, aged 109. She was buried at dawn in a full ceremony at the Breman Royal Mausoleum (Ban mu) on January 20, 2017, after her remains were removed from the Bantama Royal Mausoleum in order to receive final traditional rites.\n\nBefore her death, she was Asantehemaa (Queen mother) of the Ashanti Kingdom for 39 years. The Ashanti people believe that the Queen mother, buried first in the Bantama Mausoleum, must meet first with the royal ancestors before moving on the final resting place.\n\nIt is believed that, currently, she was the oldest Royal family member ever.\n\nThe late Queen mother was laid in state for three days and buried on Thursday, 19 January 2017. On this day, a curfew was placed on the citizens of Kumasi, everyone was supposed to stay indoors from 8pm to 4am. This directive was announced by the chief linguist of Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II, Nana Nsuase Agyeman Poku Agyemang III on Friday January 6, 2017.\n\nThe Afia Kobi Serwaa Ampem Girls Senior High School was named after her. A roundabout in Kumasi is named for her.\n"}
{"id": "57812996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57812996", "title": "Omar AlOlama", "text": "Omar AlOlama\n\nOmar Sultan AlOlama (عمر سلطان العلماء) is Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence in the United Arab Emirates. He was appointed in October 2017 by the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum. The UAE was the first country to hire a minister for artificial intelligence.\n\nAlOlama was born on 16 February 1990 in Dubai. He has a Bachelor Degree in Business Administration and Management from the American University in Dubai, and a Diploma in Excellence and Project Management from the American University in Sharjah.\n\nAlOlama’s responsibilities as Minister of State for Artificial Intelligence include creating and fostering international efforts in responsibly governing Artificial Intelligence and reflecting the UAE’s vision on ethical use of AI.\n\nBefore his ministerial position, AlOlama worked in several sectors including the banking sector, telecommunications, private enterprises and government. Between February 2012 and May 2014, AlOlama was member of the corporate planning at the UAE’s Prime Minister’s Office. From November 2015 to November 2016, he was Deputy Head of Minster’s Office at the UAE’s Prime Minister’s Office. Between December 2015 and October 2017, he was Secretary General of the World Organization of Racing Drones. In November 2017, he was appointed Deputy Managing Director of the Dubai Future Foundation. Since July 2016, AlOlama has been the Managing Director of the World Government Summit.\n\nDuring his work in the Future Department at the Ministry of Cabinet Affairs and the Future, AlOlama participated in developing the UAE Centennial 2071 strategy. He also participated in developing the UAE 4th Industrial Revolution Strategy that aims to promote the UAE’s status as a global hub for the 4th Industrial Revolution and develop a national economy based on knowledge, innovation and future technologies. Prior to his appointment, he worked on developing the UAE’s Artificial Intelligence Strategy.\n\nIn November 2017, AlOlama was appointed as a member of the ‘Shaping the Future of Digital Economy and Society’ Council (working group), part of the World Economic Forum (WEF) – Davos.\n\nIn October 2017, the UAE Government launched the ‘UAE Artificial Intelligence Strategy’. It covers education, transportation, energy, space and technology.\n\nOn 1 July 2018, AlOlama inaugurated the first UAE AI Summer Camp. 2,200 applications from university students and government executives were received in just 24 hours.\n"}
{"id": "323468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323468", "title": "Oscar Zeta Acosta", "text": "Oscar Zeta Acosta\n\nOscar \"Zeta\" Acosta Fierro (; April 8, 1935 – disappeared 1974) was an American attorney, politician, novelist and activist in the Chicano Movement. He was most well known for his novels \"Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo\" (1972) and \"The Revolt of the Cockroach People\" (1973), and his friendship with American author Hunter S. Thompson. Thompson characterized him as a heavyweight Samoan attorney, Dr. Gonzo, in his novel \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\". Acosta disappeared in 1974 during a trip in Mazatlán, Mexico, and is presumed dead.\n\nAcosta was born in El Paso, Texas to Manuel and Juanita (\"née\" Fierro) Acosta, from Mexico and El Paso, respectively. Oscar was the third child born but second to survive childhood. He had an older brother, Roberto, born in 1934. After the family moved to California, the children were raised in the small San Joaquin Valley rural community of Riverbank, California, near Modesto. Acosta's father was drafted during World War II.\n\nAfter finishing high school, Acosta joined the U.S. Air Force. Following his discharge, Acosta worked his way through Modesto Junior College. He went on to San Francisco State University where he studied creative writing, becoming the first member of his family to get a college education. He attended night classes at San Francisco Law School and passed the California Bar exam in 1966. In 1967, Acosta began working locally as an antipoverty attorney for the East Oakland Legal Aid Society.\n\nIn 1968, Acosta moved to East Los Angeles and joined the Chicano Movement as an activist attorney, defending Chicano groups and activists. He represented the Chicano 13 of the East L.A. walkouts, Rodolfo Gonzales, members of the Brown Berets, and other residents of the East L.A. barrio. His controversial defenses earned him the ire of the LAPD, who often followed and harassed him. Local law enforcement and the FBI linked Acosta to an organization called the Chicano Liberation Front, which claimed responsibility for numerous bombings in southern and northern California.\n\nIn 1970, Acosta ran for sheriff of Los Angeles County against Peter J. Pitchess, and received more than 100,000 votes. During the campaign, he was jailed for two days for contempt of court. He vowed that if elected, he would do away with the Sheriff's Department as it was then constituted. Known for loud ties and a flowered attaché case with a Chicano Power sticker, Acosta lost to Pitchess' 1.3 million votes, but did beat Everett Holladay, Monterey Park Chief of Police.\n\nIn 1972, Acosta published his first novel, \"Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo,\" about a lawyer fighting for the rights of a marginalized people. In 1973, Acosta published \"The Revolt of the Cockroach People\", a fictionalized version of the 1970 Chicano Moratorium as well as an account of Ruben Salazar's death.\n\nIn the summer of 1967, Acosta met author Hunter S. Thompson. In 1971, Thompson wrote an article on Acosta and the injustice in the barrios of East Los Angeles for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, titled \"Strange Rumblings in Aztlan\". This article also discusses the death of \"Los Angeles Times\" columnist Rubén Salazar. While working on the article, Thompson and Acosta decided that a trip to Las Vegas, Nevada, was in order, so that they could freely discuss Salazar and racial injustice in L.A. away from any police supervision. Thompson wrote about this trip in his 1972 novel \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\".\n\nThe legal department of the publisher of \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" said the book could not be published without clearance by Acosta, as references to him were recognizable. Acosta initially refused the clearance, saying that he was insulted by Thompson's alteration of his race—Thompson had described him as a \"300-pound Samoan.\" He understood, however, that inserting his real name and race would necessitate extensive rewriting and delay publication of the book, so he promised clearance provided that his name and picture would appear on the dustjacket.\n\nIn May 1974, Acosta disappeared while traveling in Mazatlán, Mexico. His son, Marco Acosta, believes that he was the last person to talk to his father. Acosta telephoned his son from Mazatlán, telling him that he was \"about to board a boat full of white snow.\" Marco is later quoted in reference to his father's disappearance: \"The body was never found, but we surmise that probably, knowing the people he was involved with, he ended up mouthing off, getting into a fight, and getting killed.\"\n\nIn 1977, Thompson's investigation of Acosta's disappearance, titled \"The Banshee Screams For Buffalo Meat,\" was published in \"Rolling Stone\". According to Thompson, Acosta was a powerful attorney and preacher but suffered from an addiction to amphetamines, and had a predilection for LSD. The article was Thompson's response to rumors that Acosta was alive somewhere around Miami.\n\nThompson wrote he believed Acosta was either murdered by drug dealers or was the victim of a political assassination. Others have speculated that Acosta overdosed or suffered a nervous breakdown during his trip.\n\nThe film \"Where the Buffalo Roam\" (1980) loosely depicts Acosta's life and his relationship with Hunter S. Thompson. Its name is derived from Thompson's article about Acosta, \"The Banshee Screams for Buffalo Meat,\" in reference Acosta's book \"Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo\". Actor Peter Boyle portrayed Acosta, whose character is named \"Carl Lazlo, Esquire\" and Bill Murray portrayed Thompson.\n\n\"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" (1998) is a film adaptation of Thompson's novel of the same name, a fictionalized account of Thompson and Acosta's trip to Las Vegas in 1971. Benicio del Toro portrays Acosta, referred to in the film and novel as \"Dr. Gonzo,\" while Johnny Depp portrayed Thompson (under the alias of Raoul Duke).\n\n\"The Rise and Fall of the Brown Buffalo\" (2017) is a documentary of the life and career of Acosta with dramatic reenactments. The documentary was directed by Phillip Rodriguez and produced by Benicio del Toro, who portrayed Acosta in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33791438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33791438", "title": "Outline of domestic violence", "text": "Outline of domestic violence\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to domestic violence:\n\nDomestic violence – pattern of abusive behaviors by one or both partners in an intimate relationship, such as marriage, dating, family, or cohabitation. It is also known as domestic abuse, spousal abuse, battering, family violence, and intimate partner violence (IPV).\n\nDomestic violence can be described as all of the following:\n\n\nEpidemiology of domestic violence – Domestic violence occurs across the world, in various cultures, and affects people across society, irrespective of economic status or gender.\n\nThe following table includes the forms of violence typically defined as part of Intimate partner violence, which is domestic violence in an intimate relationship by one's spouse or lover. It also includes a column for other family members or partners.\n\nThe rate of occurrence varies considerably based upon one's country, socio-economic class, culture, religion, family history and other factors.\n\n\nAnother study published in the Violence & Victims Journal Vol. 1 concluded that a feminist analysis of Domestic Abuse was necessary to combat common misconceptions. The study found that 92% of women who used violence against their male partners were in self-defense, and that violence reciprocated by victims may be an integral part of abuse victimology.\n\nStop Abuse For Everyone (SAFE), a United States domestic violence organization, advocates for an \"inclusive\" model of domestic violence, focusing on groups that are \"lacking in services\", such as abused men, gay, lesbian, intersex, and transgender victims, and the elderly.\n\n\n\nThe incidence of abuse may result in the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "915280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915280", "title": "Oxnard strike of 1903", "text": "Oxnard strike of 1903\n\nThe Oxnard strike of 1903 was a labor rights dispute in the southern California coastal city of Oxnard between local landowners and the majority Japanese and Mexican labor force.\n\nIn 1887, Henry, James, Benjamin, and Robert Oxnard sold their Brooklyn sugar refinery and moved to California to capitalize on the growing agricultural economy of the late nineteenth century. In 1897, following the enactment of the Dingley Tariff Bill that heavily taxed foreign sugar, Henry, James, and Robert Oxnard formed the American Beet Sugar Company. Although the seasonal Chinese and Mexican laborers already in place in the county easily satisfied agricultural labor needs early in the factory's history, decline in Chinese populations due to Chinese Exclusion Acts and use of Mexican workers in other agricultural efforts led to an increase in Japanese worker recruitment. By 1902 nine major Japanese contractors saw to the seasonal needs in the area.\n\nSince these contractors had already caused minor slowdowns and protests over wages, recently arrived bank owners and merchants organized an owner-interest oriented contracting company called the Western Agricultural Contracting Company (WACC). The WACC quickly replaced the Japanese contractors as principal contractors to the Oxnard Plain and even forced some of them to subcontract through the WACC. Comprising more than 90 percent of the work force, the WACC had a near monopoly of the workers.\n\nOn February 11, 1903, 500 Japanese and 200 Mexican laborers became the charter members of the Japanese-Mexican Labor Association (JMLA) joined together and formed their organization based on the grievances of the Oxnard laborers. Overcoming obvious language barriers between the two constituent groups, they immediately elected Kosaburo Baba (president), Y. Yamaguchi (secretary of the Japanese branch), and J.M. Lizarras (secretary of the Mexican branch); Baba and Lizarras were both labor contractors and Yamaguchi has been recognized as a boarding student recruited from San Francisco. Their immediate concerns opposed the WACC on three conditions:\n\n\nIn order to remedy these issues, the JMLA membership ceased working through the WACC (essentially declaring a strike). The strike came at a serendipitously precarious time in the sugar beet season, the staple crop of Oxnard Plain agriculture, since the labor-intensive and yield-defining work of thinning the seedlings needed to be done within the scope of a few weeks.\n\nBy the first week in March, the JMLA recruited a membership larger than 1,200 workers (over 90% of the labor force of the county's beet industry). The JMLA's increased recruitment pulled the WACC's former contracted workers from it and essentially brought the sugar industry to a standstill.\n\nOn March 23, 1903, the strike reached its turning point. Although an official investigation blamed the violence and sole death of Mexican laborer Luis Vasquez on the strikers, witnesses certify that Anglo farmers shot into a crowd of strikers thus killing Vasquez and wounding four others. With the highly negative press reaction to the incident, the WACC conceded to most of the laborers' demands.\n\nJapanese and Mexican laborers, formerly pitted against each other, had unified to achieve their labor goals. The success JMLA achieved showed the effectiveness of a multi-racial labor front and showed that class, and not race, could be the unifier in labor organizing. Nevertheless, the JMLA was unable to hold on to its victories as it lost authority due to the American Federation of Labor(AFL) under Samuel Gompers denying them a charter due to their large Japanese membership.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311286", "title": "Paulie Ayala", "text": "Paulie Ayala\n\nPaul Anthony \"Paulie\" Ayala (born April 22, 1970) is an American former professional boxer who held the NABF and WBA bantamweight titles, and the IBO super bantamweight title. In 1999 he was voted \"Fighter of the Year\" by \"The Ring\" magazine for his first bout against Johnny Tapia, which also won \"Fight of the Year\" honors.\n\nAyala began his professional fighting career with a six-round decision win over Jaime Olvera on November 27, 1992. He had seven fights in 1993, including one against future NABO champion and world title challenger Jesse Magana. Ayala won all seven of those bouts, four by knockout. Magana was knocked out in the fourth round, after which Ayala went on to score wins over prospects Evgeny Novoselov and George Acevedo.\n\nIn 1994, he won all four of his bouts, including one over veteran Lee Cargle. Cargle was knocked out by Ayala in round three. 1995 was a productive year for Ayala, who won all five of his fights, including his first regional championship bout. By defeating Mike Espinoza by knockout in three rounds at the Fort Worth Convention Center, Ayala claimed the NABF bantamweight title. He defended it twice before the end of the year, beating Mario Diaz and Sergio Millan, both by decision in 12 rounds.\n\nAyala only had two fights in 1996, both of them successful defenses of his NABF title. In the first, he knocked out Roland Gomez in seven rounds but was forced to take a seven-month layoff due to a broken Hand. Returning to the ring in September, Ayala defeated Ivan Alvarez by decision in twelve to retain the NABF bantamweight title.\n\nHe began 1997 by defeating Cuauhtemoc Gomez by decision in twelve, once again retaining his belt as the headliner at the Tropicana Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Ayala won three more bouts that year, defeating heavy-handed puncher Nestor Lopez in a co-main event feature on an HBO pay-per-view card, headlining at The Orleans in Paradise, Nevada with a fifth-round knockout over Roberto Lopez to retain the NABF belt. This was followed by another HBO PPV appearance, in which Ayala won a unanimous decision against Ricardo Medina.\n\nAt the beginning of 1998, Ayala was very close to a world championship bout. Fighting two more bouts, he received his first chance at a world title by becoming the mandatory contender for the WBC belt. Ayala then traveled to Japan to challenge WBC bantamweight champion Joichiro Tatsuyoshi on August 23. Ayala lost the fight by a sixth-round technical decision when the fight was stopped due to a cut. Tatsuyoshi came out fast in the opening rounds, but Ayala rallied back to win the fifth and sixth rounds unanimously. During the fight, an accidental clash of heads caused a cut and Ayala was docked 2 points. The fight was stopped in round seven due to the severity of the cut, sending the decision to the scorecards and thereby handing victory to Tatsuyoshi.\n\nAfter a win against Ivan Salazar, Ayala began 1999 by beating David Vazquez by decision in ten. Unable to secure a rematch with Tatsuyoshi, Ayala nonetheless got his second chance at becoming a world champion, this time against WBA bantamweight champion Johnny Tapia. The fight took place in Las Vegas on June 26. Ayala handed Tapia his first career loss and became world champion by winning a twelve-round unanimous decision, in what turned out to be both Ayala's Showtime debut and \"The Ring\" magazine's Fight of the Year for 1999.\n\nAyala retained his title against WBA #1 contender Sithai Condo before the end of that year, earning \"The Ring\" magazine Fighter of the Year honours. In his second title defense, he defeated Johnny Bredahl via twelve-round decision. On October 7, 2000, Ayala and Tapia met in a rematch for the vacant IBA featherweight title, at a catchweight of 124 lbs. As with the first fight, this took place on Showtime. Due to Tapia being unable to make the bantamweight limit, Ayala's WBA bantamweight title was not at stake. Ayala defeated Tapia once again by a twelve-round uanimous decision, a result which was seen as controversial.\n\nOn March 30, 2001, Ayala recovered from a fourth-round knockdown to retain his WBA bantamweight title with a twelve-round decision against Hugo Dianzo in an ESPN telecast bout. Ayala then vacated his title in order to move up in weight.\n\nOn August 4, 2001, Ayala challenged world champion Clarence Adams, who had vacated his WBA super bantamweight title in order to face Ayala for the vacant IBO title. Ayala defeated Adams via split decision. In a rematch of their closely contested bout, Ayala successfully defended his IBO title by defeating Adams in a wide unanimous decision. Both bouts were featured on HBO telecasts.\n\nContinuing his rise in weight, on November 16, 2002 Ayala met world champion Érik Morales for the vacant WBC featherweight title, this time winding up on the losing end of a twelve-round unanimous decision.\n\nAyala returned to the ring on November 15, 2003, dropping back down to super bantamweight and defeating Edel Ruiz in a ten-round unanimous decision in Fort Worth, Texas. On June 19, 2004 in Los Angeles, Ayala once again ventured into the featherweight division. In a losing effort against fellow former world champion Marco Antonio Barrera, Ayala was knocked out in ten rounds. In September of that year, Ayala surprised many of his boxing fans by announcing his retirement from the sport.\n\nFollowing retirement, Ayala has contributed to helping those who suffer from Parkinson's disease. In Fort Worth, Texas at his University of Hard Knocks gym, Ayala started a program to help Parkinson's patients. Using his expertise, he teaches non-contact boxing techniques to regain coordination, strength and balance in order to improve the quality of life for his students and create an environment of camaraderie.\n\n"}
{"id": "678064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=678064", "title": "Petz", "text": "Petz\n\nPetz (Dogz and Catz) is a series of single-player video games dating back to 1995, in which the player can adopt, raise, care for and breed their own virtual pets. The original \"Petz\" has sold over 1.5 million copies worldwide and the brand has grown to over 22 million copies since coming under Ubisoft.\n\nThe original Petz games were developed by P.F. Magic. After earning revenues of $8 million in 1997, P.F. Magic was acquired by The Learning Company for $15.8 million in 1998. In 2001, UbiSoft acquired the entertainment division of The Learning Company, granting Ubisoft exclusive publishing rights to 88 titles, including Dogz and Catz. After UbiSoft acquired the series, some games that were actually Japanese in origin were localized under the Petz name. For example, Petz: Hamsterz Life 2 on Game Boy Advance is a localization of Hamster Club 3, and distinctly different from its DS counterpart, although both DS Hamsterz games were also Japanese-developed but published in English territories by UbiSoft.\n\nThe player starts at the Adoption Center, where they may choose a Dogz or Catz to adopt of a Breedz and gender of their choice. Once the player has found a Petz, they can adopt and name their new Puppyz or Kittenz. After around three days (real time) the Petz become adults. Adult Petz can then breed and have Kittenz or Puppyz of their own in \"Petz 3\", \"Petz 4\", and \"Petz 5\". Cross-breeding can create different types of petz, called 'Mixed Breeds'.\n\nThere are a number of Toyz, food and water bowls, and Treatz available. Petz can learn tricks with positive rewards such as petting and Treatz, or trained not to do something using the punishment (water) spray bottle. Petz must be looked after properly; abused or neglected Petz may run away.\n\nPlayers may share their Petz with others who have the game via an email. Each version allows the importing of Petz from all earlier versions. There is also a camera feature, permitting snapshots of petz to be taken and saved as .bmp files.\n\nOther animals include Pigz and Bunnyz. Later versions of the games included a \"Petz Web Fun Pack\", \"Petz Publisher\" and a \"Petz Player\" web browser plug-in, allowing players to publish their Petz online in playable webpages. The Petz Publisher does not work anymore, due to the fact that the website has been remodeled with the newer Petz games by Ubisoft.\n\nUsers learned how to reverse-engineer the system, and began producing additional Breedz, Toyz, playscenes, clothes, and developer tools for the games, as permitted by PF Magic, Mindscape, and Ubisoft.\n\nEach Petz breedz has its own body shape and colour variations.\n\n\"Catz and Dogz 1\" began with 5 Breedz per game.\n\"Petz 2\", \"3\" and \"4\" contain 10 Breedz per game, referred to as the Original PF Magic Breedz. In \"Petz 5\" there are 16 different Dogz and 16 different Catz Breedz in the adoption center.\n\nPetz in the game can become attracted to one another and breed to produce offspring. This feature was introduced in \"Petz 3\" and has also appeared in \"Petz 4\" and \"Petz 5\". In \"Petz 3\" and \"Petz 4\", a petz couple could only produce one Kittenz/Puppyz per breeding, but in \"Petz 5\" a mother can bear up to four offspring per litter.\n\nThe user can encourage Petz to fall in love by squirting them with love potions and perfumes and giving them food with aphrodisiac-like qualities, as well as using other means. When Petz have mated, a heart will appear on the screen informing the user of the female's pregnancy (which generally lasts 3 – 5 days). In that time, females will become noticeably rounder and will require extra food and attention.\n\nPetz's genes carry through to their offspring but can mutate, resulting in different fur and eye colours to that of the parents. The shape and size of body parts is also inherited in \"sections;\" e.g. the legs, head, and ears could be inherited from one parent and the feet, tail, and body could be inherited from the other parent.\n\nWhen two different breeds of Petz are bred together, the offspring will have the base personality of one parent (or ancestor). The base personality can be determined by the Petz' eyes, their personality and behavior and how they pose.\n\nWhen Petz have Kittenz/Puppyz, the player is asked to name the offspring. During the first few days of a Petz' life, it is blind, small and cannot walk. The mother feeds her infant and the user can also do so with the milk bottle.\n\nThe newborn will later open its eyes and is able to walk around, jump onto ledges and stop suckling. They can eat from food bowls and drink from the milk bottle, but cannot swallow treats.\n\nIn \"Petz 5\", when the Puppyz/Kittenz are young, they remain in the nursery room with their mother until they are weaned. Only the mother and offspring can access this room and the mother and offspring cannot be taken out separately. When the Puppyz/Kittenz have grown up, the nursery becomes inaccessible. In \"Petz 3\" and \"4\", the mother and her single Puppyz/Kittenz have free access to all areas.\n\nEventually, the offspring will separate from their mothers as they grow to Kittenz and Puppyz.\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" gave \"Catz\" a B+ and wrote that it is an accurate simulation of felines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2008686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008686", "title": "Poikilotherm", "text": "Poikilotherm\n\nA poikilotherm () is an animal whose internal temperature varies considerably. It is the opposite of a homeotherm, an animal which maintains thermal homeostasis. While the term in principle can apply to all organisms, it is generally only applied to animals, and mostly to vertebrates. Usually the fluctuations are consequence of variation in the ambient environmental temperature. Many terrestrial ectotherms are poikilothermic. \nHowever some ectotherms remain in temperature-constant environments to the point that they are actually able to maintain a constant internal temperature (i.e. are homeothermic). It is this distinction that often makes the term \"poikilotherm\" more useful than the vernacular \"cold-blooded\", which is sometimes used to refer to ectotherms more generally.\n\nPoikilothermic animals include types of vertebrate animals, specifically some fish, amphibians, and reptiles, as well as a large number of invertebrate animals. The naked mole-rat is the only mammal that is currently thought to be poikilothermic.\n\nThe term derives from Greek \"poikilos\" (), meaning \"varied,\" ultimately from \"thousand-making\" and \"thermos\" (), meaning \"heat\".\n\nPoikilotherm animals must be able to function over a wider range of temperatures than homeotherms. The speed of most chemical reactions vary with temperature, and in order to function poikilotherms may have four to ten enzyme systems that operate at different temperatures for an important chemical reaction. As a result, poikilotherms often have larger, more complex genomes than homeotherms in the same ecological niche. Frogs are a notable example of this effect, though their complex development is also an important factor in their large genome. \n\nBecause their metabolism is variable and generally below that of homeothermic animals, sustained high-energy activities like powered flight in large animals or maintaining a large brain is generally beyond poikilotherm animals. The metabolism of poikilotherms favors strategies such as sit-and-wait hunting over chasing prey for larger animals with high movement cost. As they do not use their metabolisms to heat or cool themselves, total energy requirement over time is low. For the same body weight, poikilotherms need only 5 to 10% of the energy of homeotherms.\n\n\nIt is comparatively easy for a poikilotherm to accumulate enough energy to reproduce. Poikilotherms at the same trophic level often have much shorter generations than homeotherms: weeks rather than years. Such applies even to animals with similar ecological roles such as cats and snakes.\n\nThis difference in energy requirement also means that a given food source can support a greater density of poikilothermic animals than homeothermic animals. This is reflected in the predator-prey ratio which is usually higher in poikilothermic fauna compared to homeothermic ones. However, when homeotherms and poikilotherms have similar niches, and compete, the homeotherm can often drive poikilothermic competitors to extinction, because homeotherms can gather food for a greater fraction of each day.\n\nIn medicine, loss of normal thermoregulation in humans is referred to as \"poikilothermia\". This is usually seen with sedative and hypnotic drugs or in 'compartment syndrome'. For example, barbiturates, ethanol, and chloral hydrate may precipitate this effect. REM sleep is also considered a poikilothermic state in humans.\n"}
{"id": "46769874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46769874", "title": "Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon", "text": "Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon\n\nLike , \"Super Mystery Dungeon\" is a dungeon-crawling rogue-like role-playing game featuring 3D characters and environments. Players assume the role of one of 20 Pokémon (which include all 18 starting Pokémon from all six main series generations, along with Pikachu and Riolu), who are joined by a partner, also chosen out one of the same 20 Pokémon, who accompany them in their journey through procedurally-generated dungeons filled with enemies and traps as they help stop a major crisis and save the Pokémon world. The game features all 720 released Pokémon at the time of release.\n\nThe player wakes up transformed into a Pokémon and only remembering that they used to be a human. When they are suddenly attacked by Beheeyem, a friendly Nuzleaf helps them escape, gives them shelter in Serene Village, and enrolls them in a school for young Pokémon. There, they meet their partner, who dreams of joining the Exploration Society but has become the town pariah due to his overeager nature. Taking advantage of the player not knowing the area, school bullies Pancham and Shelmet trick the player (and the partner, to their chagrin) to enter a mine owned by a Gabite, but the local Drilbur diffuse the situation before it gets out of control.\n\nSeveral days later, the other kids ask the player where they're from, having ascertained that they can't feasibly be Nuzleaf's kid. Not wanting to hid the truth, the player reveals what he remembers, but Pancham gets everyone (except the partner and the school principal) to think they're a pathological liar looking for attention. The next day, Nuzleaf's neighbor, Roselia, arrives at the school looking for her daughter Budew, who's disappeared without any real explanation. Recalling a conversation they had with the partner's father about a special honey that Budew overheard, the player and partner rush to a nearby meadow and save her, winning the respect of their classmates and the town. That night, the partner sympathizes with the player's outsider status and gives him one of the Harmony Scarves they have as a sigh of friendship.\n\nThey eventually meet Ampharos, a member of the Exploration Society who gives them a Connection Orb and names them junior Exploration Society members. After saving Panchem and Shelmet from a group of Litwick who came to town to fead on their fears, Nuzleaf informs the pair that he wants them to join him to explore Revelation Mountain, a local mountain range the town has guarded for years with no reason why. However, the Beheeyem are spotted outside the village, forcing the player and partner to flee to Lively Town, the site of the Exploration Society headquarters.\n\nUpon arriving, Ampharos inducts them into the Exploration Society and introduces them to the other members: explorers Archen, Bunnelby, Buizel, archaeologist Mawile, astronomer Jirachi, communications officer Dedenne, and cook Swirlix. After a few days of work, Archen invites them to a trip to the Air Continent, where they discover that a malicious entity has been turning Pokémon to stone. The Society initially assumes Entei is involved after Latios and Latias are found turned to stone, but when the player and partner inexplicably evolve to their final forms and defeat him, they realize he was only investigating the current events.\n\nA few days later, the entity confronts Entei. Although the Society is unable to prevent Entei from being turned to stone, they find evidence that implies that Krookodile, a local thug, is the culprit. When it is found that a dungeon called the Prehistoric Ruins may help them find more answers, the Society initially intends to go, but the player and partner hear that Krookodile is headed towards Serene Village and leave with Archen to intercept him. Nuzleaf meets up with them and informs them that Krookodile was heading up Revelation Mountain and joins the chase. At the top, the group discovers a sealed spring that can return petrified Pokémon to normal. They confront Krookodile, but Nuzleaf, along with the legendary Pokémon Yveltal, petrifies the group, dries out the spring water, and begin attacking Pokémon around the world. Ampharos, Jirachi, and Espurr manage to survive while everyone else the player knew is turned to stone.\n\nDuring this time, the player wakes up in a world called the Voidlands and is reunited with most of the Society. As they try to find a way back to their world, the discover that the planet's life source, the Tree of Life, was once pulled toward the sun by the entity, now known as Dark Matter, but was stopped by 'the alignment of the stars'. However, they are attacked by manifestations of the Voidlands' darkness. Raikou, Entei, and Suicune save the player, partner, and Mawile, but the others are incapacitated. They make their way up Reverse Mountain, the only way out of the Voidlands, but the battle at the top is so fierce that the player and partner's allies have to sacrifice themselves to let them escape.\n\nThe player and partner return to the Society headquarters but are confronted by an escaped Beheeyem, who informs them that Dark Matter feeds on the negativity of others and can possess Pokémon. He also mentions that he believes the Tree of Life to be in the deepest part of the Prehistoric Ruins. He leads the player and partner to the ruins, but when they reach the depths, they realize that Nuzleaf, anticipating Beheeyem's betrayal, lied about the Tree's true location. Nuzleaf reveals that Beheeyem was responsible for the player's memory loss before using the room's energy to attempt to send the player back to the Voidlands. Ampharos, Jirachi, Espurr, and Celebi intervene and transport them to the Tree of Life.\n\nCelebi explains that the player might have been summoned once before by Mew and the Harmony Scarves protect its wearers from turning to stone when near the Tree of Life. Upon reaching the end of the forest, they find the Tree of Life near dead and guarded by Yveltal, Nuzleaf, and the remaining Beheeyem, whom Dark Matter has corrupted. The group manage to defeat them and free them from their brainwashed state, but the battle allowed Dark Matter, who was inside the Tree of Life, to get the energy needed to pull the Tree out of the ground and send the planet toward the sun.\n\nHowever, various flying Pokémon stall the ascent long enough for Arceus to send the player and partner into the Tree of Life. After saving Yveltal and the others, the two battle and destroy Dark Matter. The Society and Xerneas, the physical form of the Tree of Life, congratulate them, but the player soon becomes worried that they might be forced to leave the Pokémon world. When expressing their concerns to the partner, the partner informs them that, upon talking with Xerneas, they are the reincarnation of Mew and have to leave the world. The partner tells the player to not be upset before departing in a ball of light.\n\nSome time later, the player has returned to working at the Exploration Society, but has lost motivation since their partner left. Ampharos advises the player to seek out a Pokémon named Xatu on the possibility of bringing back their partner. Upon reaching him, Xatu tells the player that Mew is living in a dungeon called Mystery Forest. However, the Mew the player finds is nothing like their partner. Initially returning home alone, the player discovers Mew following them and Ampharos brings him on to help the player with work. After several days of work, the player and mew bond, allowing the player to get over the pain of their partner's departure. However, the player wakes up one day on the Serene Village hill with Mew gone and no memory of how they wound up there. After returning to the headquarters and not finding Mew there either, their memories come flooding back: Mew had gotten sick at some point and Xatu feared Dark Matter might be involved. Thinking the hill might help, the player took Mew there but was attacked by an unknown party upon arrival.\n\nImmediately, Ampharos and Mawile come forward with a letter saying the individuals that took Mew were at Purifying Cave. At the depths of the cave, the player discovers the kidnappers were Nuzleaf and the Beheeyem, having learned of Dark Matter's presence in Mew and intending to destroy Mew before Dark Matter could revive. The player demands that Mew stays, as they can't bear losing another friend. The player's Harmony Scarf begins to glow and revives the partner. Ampharos, Mawile and Xatu then show up and explain that the partner was inside Mew and his kidnapping was a ruse to bring him back. Mew then returns home, and the player and partner resume their work.\n\nIn April 2015, editors of \"Famitsu DS+Wii\" magazine stated that a new \"Pokémon\" game would be revealed the following month, and that more details would come in a future issue. \"Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon\" was later officially announced by The Pokémon Company and Nintendo via a press release on May 21, confirming the game's release for late 2015 in Japan and North America, and early 2016 in Europe. Like previous entries in the \"Mystery Dungeon\" subseries, it is developed by Spike Chunsoft. Gameplay footage from the title was first showcased on a Nintendo Direct broadcast on May 31, 2015, along with a final Japanese release date.\n\nThe Japanese video game magazine \"Famitsu\" gave the game a score of 36/40 in their cross review, with the four individual reviewers all giving it a score of 9. It was the highest selling video game in Japan during its debut week, with 151,823 copies sold, and would go on to sell a total of approximately 295,598 copies in the region by the end of 2015. As of March 2016, it has sold approximately of 1.22 million copies worldwide.\n\n\"Super Mystery Dungeon\" holds a score of 69/100 from the aggregate review website Metacritic, indicating mixed or average reviews. Reviewers praised the story and the overall feel of the game, but criticized the repetitive dialogue and the amount of time needed to sit through un-skippable cutscenes. \"Game Informer\" felt that the game was an improvement over previous entries in the \"Pokémon Mystery Dungeon\" series, and had a \"better, more focused sense of humor\", but that it still had issues such as overly-simplistic combat and repetitive gameplay, declaring that it \"pales in comparison to the core RPG installments.\" Mitch Vogel of Nintendo Life similarly found it to be \"tedious\", elaborating that \"Repetition that's present in nearly every aspect makes for a game that can sometimes feel like a chore rather than a form of entertainment\". However, the editor ultimately felt that it would be a game for players who don't mind \"grinding\" recurrent scenarios and battles, stating \"if you have the perseverance to stick with it long enough, you'll find that it pays off in the long run.\" Destructoid called it a \"solid entry in the \"Pokémon\" franchise,\" commending its \"tons of customization options\" and \"huge roster of potential allies and moves\".\n"}
{"id": "2041594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041594", "title": "Qadariyah", "text": "Qadariyah\n\nQadariyah (or Qadariya) is an originally derogatory term designating early Islamic theologians who asserted that humans possess free will, whose exercise makes them responsible for their actions, justifying divine punishment and absolving God of responsibility for evil in the world. Some of their doctrines were later adopted by the Mu'tazilis and rejected by the Ash'aris.\n\nQadariya was one of the first philosophical schools in Islam. The earliest document associated with the movement is the \"Risala\" by Hasan al-Basri, which was composed between 75/694 and 80/699, though debates about free will in Islam probably predate this text.\n\nAccording to Sunni sources, the Qadariyah were censured by Muhammad himself by being compared to Zoroastrians, who likewise deny predestination. It is reported in Sunan Abu Dawood: \nNarrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet said, \"The Qadariyyah are the Magians of this community. If they are ill, do not pay a sick visit to them, and if they die, do not attend their funerals.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11572625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11572625", "title": "Saint Abraham (Ethiopian)", "text": "Saint Abraham (Ethiopian)\n\nAbraham is a saint of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church. His feast day is celebrated May 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "28922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28922", "title": "Scorpion", "text": "Scorpion\n\nScorpions are predatory arachnids of the order Scorpiones. They have eight legs and are easily recognized by the pair of grasping pedipalps and the narrow, segmented tail, often carried in a characteristic forward curve over the back, ending with a venomous stinger. Scorpions range in size from 9 mm / 0.3 in. (\"Typhlochactas mitchelli\") to 23 cm / 9 in. (\"Heterometrus swammerdami\").\n\nThe evolutionary history of scorpions goes back to the Silurian period 430 million years ago. They have adapted to a wide range of environmental conditions and can now be found on all continents except Antarctica. Scorpions number about 1750 described species, with 13 extant (living) families recognised to date. The taxonomy has undergone changes and is likely to change further, as genetic studies are bringing forth new information.\n\nAll scorpions have a venomous sting, but the vast majority of the species do not represent a serious threat to humans and in most cases healthy adults do not need any medical treatment after being stung. Only about 25 species are known to have venom capable of killing a human. In some parts of the world with highly venomous species human fatalities regularly occur, primarily in areas with limited access to medical treatment.\n\nThe word \"scorpion\" is thought to have originated in Middle English between 1175 and 1225 AD from Old French ', or from Italian ', both derived from the Latin ', which is the romanization of the Greek word  – '.\n\nScorpions are found on all major land masses except Antarctica. Scorpions did not occur naturally in Great Britain, Ireland, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and some of the islands in Oceania, but now have been accidentally introduced in some of these places by human trade and commerce. The greatest diversity of scorpions in the Northern Hemisphere is to be found in regions between the latitudes 23° N and 38° N. Above these latitudes, the diversity decreases, with the northernmost natural occurrence of scorpions being the northern scorpion \"Paruroctonus boreus\" at Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada 50° N. Five colonies of scorpions (\"Euscorpius flavicaudis\") have established themselves in Sheerness on the Isle of Sheppey in the United Kingdom. This small population has been resident since the 1860s, having probably arrived with imported fruit from Africa. This scorpion species is small and completely harmless to humans. At just over 51° N, this marks the northernmost limit where scorpions live in the wild.\n\nToday, scorpions are found in virtually every terrestrial habitat, including high-elevation mountains, caves and intertidal zones, with the exception of boreal ecosystems, such as the tundra, high-altitude taiga, and the permanently snow-clad tops of some mountains. As regards microhabitats, scorpions may be ground-dwelling, tree-living, rock-loving, or sand-loving. Some species, such as \"Vaejovis janssi\", are versatile and found in every type of habitat in Baja California, while others occupy specialized niches such as \"Euscorpius carpathicus\", which is endemic to the littoral zone of rivers in Romania.\n\nThere are thirteen known families and about 1,750 described species and subspecies of scorpions. In addition, there are 111 described taxa of extinct scorpions.\n\nThis classification is based on that of Soleglad & Fet (2003), which replaced the older, unpublished classification of Stockwell. Additional taxonomic changes are from papers by Soleglad et al. (2005).\n\nThe following classification covers extant taxa to the rank of family.\n\n\nScorpions have been found in many fossil records, including marine Silurian and estuarine Devonian deposits, coal deposits from the Carboniferous Period and in amber. The oldest known scorpions lived around 430 million years ago in the Silurian period. Though once believed to have lived on the bottom of shallow tropical seas, early scorpions are now believed to have been terrestrial and to have washed into marine settings together with plant matter. These first scorpions were believed to have had gills instead of the present forms' book lungs though this has subsequently been refuted. The oldest Gondwanan scorpions (\"Gondwanascorpio\") comprise the earliest known terrestrial animals from Gondwana. Currently, 111 fossil species of scorpion are known. Unusually for arachnids, there are more species of Palaeozoic scorpion than Mesozoic or Cenozoic ones.\n\nFossil of ancestral scorpions had compound eyes, but as they adapted to a nocturnal lifestyle, their eyes became simplified.\n\nThe eurypterids, commonly called \"sea scorpions\", were aquatic creatures that lived during the Palaeozoic era that share several physical traits with scorpions and may be closely related to them. Various species of Eurypterida could grow to be anywhere from to in length. However, they exhibit anatomical differences marking them off as a group distinct from their Carboniferous and Recent relatives. Despite this, they are commonly referred to as \"sea scorpions\". Their legs are thought to have been short, thick, tapering and to have ended in a single strong claw; it appears that they were well-adapted for maintaining a secure hold upon rocks or seaweed against the wash of waves, like the legs of a shore crab. Cladistic analyses have supported the idea that the eurypterids are a distinct group from the scorpions.\n\nThe body of a scorpion is divided into two parts (tagmata): the head (cephalothorax) and the abdomen (opisthosoma), which is subdivided into a broad anterior (mesosoma), or preabdomen, and a narrow tail-like posterior (metasoma), or postabdomen.\n\nThe cephalothorax, also called the \"prosoma\", comprises the carapace, eyes, chelicerae (mouth parts), pedipalps (the pedipalps of scorpions have chelae, commonly called claws or pincers) and four pairs of walking legs. The scorpion's exoskeleton is thick and durable, providing good protection from predators. Scorpions have two eyes on the top of the cephalothorax, and usually two to five pairs of eyes along the front corners of the cephalothorax. While unable to form sharp images, their central eyes are amongst the most light sensitive in the animal kingdom, especially in dim light, and makes it possible for nocturnal species to use star light to navigate at night. Some species also have light receptions in their tail. The position of the eyes on the cephalothorax depends in part on the hardness or softness of the soil upon which they spend their lives.\n\nThe pedipalp is a segmented, chelate (clawed) appendage used for prey immobilization, defense and sensory purposes. The segments of the pedipalp (from closest to the body outwards) are coxa, trochanter, femur (humerus), patella, tibia (including the fixed claw and the manus) and tarsus (moveable claw). A scorpion has darkened or granular raised linear ridges, called \"keels\" or \"carinae\" on the pedipalp segments and on other parts of the body, which are useful taxonomically.\n\nThe mesosoma is the broad part of the opisthosoma. Sometimes it is loosely called the \"abdomen\". It consists of the anterior seven somites (segments) of the opisthosoma, each covered dorsally by a sclerotosed plate, its tergite. Ventrally somites 3 to 7 are armoured with matching plates called sternites.\n\nVentrally somites 1 and 2 are more complex; the first abdominal sternite is modified into a pair of opercula covering the gonopore. Sternite 2 forms the basal plate bearing the pectines. Morphologically the pectines are a pair of limbs that function as sensory organs.\n\nThe next four somites, 3 to 6, each bears a pair of spiracles; they serve as openings for the scorpion's respiratory organs, known as book lungs. The spiracle openings may be slits, circular, elliptical, or oval, according to the species of scorpion.\n\nThe 7th and last somite do not bear appendages or any other significant external structures.\n\nThe metasoma is commonly known as the scorpion's \"tail\", though this is in some ways misleading because unlike most so-called tails it is not an appendage or limb; it is in fact part of the opisthosoma. It comprises five segments, of which the fifth segment bears the telson. In many species it superficially seems as though the metasoma has four segments only, because their first (anterior) metasomal segment gives the impression of being the posterior segment of the mesosoma. The fifth segment of the metasoma is the caudal segment of the opisthosoma and accordingly bears the anus. The scorpion's telson is the part commonly called the stinger; it is attached to the end of the fifth segment just dorsad from the anus, but as the distal end of the tail at rest normally is carried upside down with the sting pointing forward, the anus usually is above the base of the telson and facing upwards.\n\nThe scorpion's telson is the part commonly called the stinger; it includes the vesicle, containing a symmetrical pair of venom glands. Externally it bears the curved sting, the hypodermic aculeus or venom-injecting barb. It is equipped with various sensory hairs, as the sting cannot be guided visually. Each of the venom glands has its own duct to convey its secretion internally along the aculeus from the bulb of the gland to immediately subterminal of the point of the aculeus, where each of the paired ducts has its own venom pore.\n\nOn rare occasions, scorpions are born with two metasomata. Two-tailed scorpions are no more than examples of adventitious ontogenic abnormality. Whether there ever is a genetic component to the condition is uncertain, but such evidence as is available from offspring is negative so far as no two-tailed scorpions have been observed among the rarely-observed progeny of multiple-tailed scorpion specimens.\n\nScorpions are also known to glow a vibrant blue-green when exposed to certain wavelengths of ultraviolet light such as that produced by a black light, due to the presence of fluorescent chemicals in the cuticle. One fluorescent component is now known to be beta-carboline. A hand-held UV lamp has long been a standard tool for nocturnal field surveys of these animals. Fluorescence occurs as a result of sclerotisation and increases in intensity with each successive instar. This fluorescence may have an active role in scorpion light detection.\n\nScorpions prefer areas where the temperatures range from , but may survive temperatures ranging from well below freezing to desert heat. Scorpions of the genus \"Scorpiops\" living in high Asian mountains, bothriurid scorpions from Patagonia and small \"Euscorpius\" scorpions from Central Europe can all survive winter temperatures of about . In Repetek (Turkmenistan), seven species of scorpion (of which \"Pectinibuthus birulai\" is endemic) live in temperatures varying from .\n\nThey are nocturnal and fossorial, finding shelter during the day in the relative cool of underground holes or undersides of rocks, and emerging at night to hunt and feed. Scorpions exhibit photophobic behavior, primarily to evade detection by predators such as birds, centipedes, lizards, mice, opossums, and rats.\n\nScorpions are opportunistic predators of small arthropods, although the larger kinds have been known to kill small lizards and mice. The large pincers are studded with highly sensitive tactile hair, and the moment an insect touches these, they use their chelae (pincers) to catch the prey. Depending on the toxicity of their venom and size of their claws, they will then either crush the prey or inject it with neurotoxic venom. This will kill or paralyze the prey so the scorpion can eat it. Scorpions have an unusual style of eating using chelicerae, small claw-like structures that protrude from the mouth that are unique to the Chelicerata among arthropods. The chelicerae, which are very sharp, are used to pull small amounts of food off the prey item for digestion into a \"pre-oral cavity\" below the chelicerae and carapace. Scorpions can ingest food only in a liquid form; they have external digestion. The digestive juices from the gut are egested onto the food and the digested food sucked in liquid form. Any solid indigestible matter (fur, exoskeleton, etc.) is trapped by setae in the pre-oral cavity, which is ejected by the scorpion.\n\nScorpions can consume huge amounts of food at one sitting. They have a very efficient food storage organ and a very low metabolic rate combined with a relatively inactive lifestyle. This enables scorpions to survive long periods when deprived of food; some are able to survive 6 to 12 months of starvation. Scorpions excrete very little; their waste consists mostly of insoluble nitrogenous compounds, such as xanthine, guanine and uric acid.\n\nMost scorpions reproduce sexually, and most species have male and female individuals. However, some species, such as \"Hottentotta hottentotta\", \"Hottentotta caboverdensis\", \"Liocheles australasiae\", \"Tityus columbianus\", \"Tityus metuendus\", \"Tityus serrulatus\", \"Tityus stigmurus\", \"Tityus trivittatus\" and \"Tityus urugayensis\", reproduce through parthenogenesis, a process in which unfertilised eggs develop into living embryos. Parthenogenic reproduction starts following the scorpion's final moult to maturity and continues thereafter.\nSexual reproduction is accomplished by the transfer of a spermatophore from the male to the female; scorpions possess a complex courtship and mating ritual to effect this transfer. Mating starts with the male and female locating and identifying each other using a mixture of pheromones and vibrational communication. Once they have satisfied the other that they are of opposite sex and of the correct species, mating can commence.\n\nThe courtship starts with the male grasping the female's pedipalps with his own; the pair then perform a \"dance\" called the \"promenade à deux\". In this \"dance\", the male leads the female around searching for a suitable place to deposit his spermatophore. The courtship ritual can involve several other behaviours, such as juddering and a cheliceral kiss, in which the male's chelicerae – pincers – grasp the female's in a smaller more intimate version of the male's grasping the female's pedipalps and in some cases injecting a small amount of his venom into her pedipalp or on the edge of her cephalothorax, probably as a means of pacifying the female.\n\nWhen the male has identified a suitable location, he deposits the spermatophore and then guides the female over it. This allows the spermatophore to enter her genital opercula, which triggers release of the sperm, thus fertilising the female. The mating process can take from 1 to 25+ hours and depends on the ability of the male to find a suitable place to deposit his spermatophore. If mating continues too long, the female may lose interest, ending the process.\n\nOnce the mating is complete, the male and female will separate. The male will generally retreat quickly, most likely to avoid being cannibalized by the female, although sexual cannibalism is infrequent with scorpions.\n\nUnlike the majority of species in the class Arachnida, which are oviparous, scorpions seem to be universally ovoviviparous. The young are born one by one after hatching and expelling the embryonic membrane, if any, and the brood is carried about on its mother's back until the young have undergone at least one moult. Before the first moult, scorplings cannot survive naturally without the mother, since they depend on her for protection and to regulate their moisture levels. Especially in species that display more advanced sociability (e.g. \"Pandinus\" spp.), the young/mother association can continue for an extended period of time. The size of the litter depends on the species and environmental factors, and can range from two to over a hundred scorplings. The average litter however, consists of around eight scorplings.\n\nThe young generally resemble their parents. Growth is accomplished by periodic shedding of the exoskeleton (ecdysis). A scorpion's developmental progress is measured in instars (how many moults it has undergone). Scorpions typically require between five and seven moults to reach maturity. Moulting commences with a split in the old exoskeleton just below the edge of the carapace (at the front of the prosoma). The scorpion then emerges from this split; the pedipalps and legs are first removed from the old exoskeleton, followed eventually by the metasoma. When it emerges, the scorpion's new exoskeleton is soft, making the scorpion highly vulnerable to attack. The scorpion must constantly stretch while the new exoskeleton hardens to ensure that it can move when the hardening is complete. The process of hardening is called sclerotisation. The new exoskeleton does not fluoresce; as sclerotisation occurs, the fluorescence gradually returns.\n\nAll known scorpion species possess venom and use it primarily to kill or paralyze their prey so that it can be eaten. The venom consists of a collection of peptides.\n\nIn general, the venom is fast-acting, allowing for effective prey capture. However, as a general rule, they will kill their prey with brute force if they can, as opposed to using venom. It is also used as a defense against predators. The venom is a mixture of compounds (neurotoxins, enzyme inhibitors, etc.) each not only causing a different effect but possibly also targeting a specific animal. Each compound is made and stored in a pair of glandular sacs and is released in a quantity regulated by the scorpion itself. Of the 1,000+ known species of scorpion, only 25 have venom that is deadly to humans; most of those belong to the family Buthidae (including \"Leiurus quinquestriatus\", \"Hottentotta\", \"Centruroides\" and \"Androctonus\").\n\nAccording to the United States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), the following steps should be taken to prevent scorpion stings:\n\nFirst aid for scorpion stings is generally symptomatic. It includes strong analgesia, either systemic (opioids or paracetamol) or locally applied (such as a cold compress). Cases of very high blood pressure are treated with anxiety-relieving medications and medications which lower the blood pressure by widening the diameter of blood vessels. Scorpion envenomation with high morbidity and mortality is usually due to either excessive autonomic activity and cardiovascular toxic effects or neuromuscular toxic effects. Antivenom is the specific treatment for scorpion envenomation combined with supportive measures including vasodilators in patients with cardiovascular toxic effects and benzodiazepines when there is neuromuscular involvement. Although rare, severe hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis to scorpion antivenin (SAV) are possible.<ref name=\"10.4103/0972-5229.164807\"></ref>\n\nShort-chain scorpion toxins constitute the largest group of potassium (K) channel blocking peptides; an important physiological role of the KCNA3 channel, also known as K1.3, is to help maintain large electrical gradients for the sustained transport of ions such as Ca that controls T lymphocyte (T cell) proliferation. Thus K1.3 blockers could be potential immunosuppressants for the treatment of autoimmune disorders (such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and multiple sclerosis).\n\nThe venom of \"Uroplectes lineatus\" is clinically important in dermatology.\n\nToxins being investigated include the following:\n\nScorpions for use in the pharmaceutical industry are collected from the wild in Pakistan. Farmers in the Thatta District are paid about US$100 for each 40 gram scorpion and 60 gram specimens are reported to fetch at least US$50,000. The trade is reported to be illegal but thriving.\n\nFried scorpion is a traditional dish from Shandong, China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18855807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18855807", "title": "Shep (American dog)", "text": "Shep (American dog)\n\nShep was the name given to a herding dog that appeared at the Great Northern Railway station one day in 1936 in Fort Benton, Montana and watched as his deceased master's casket was loaded onto the train and left. The dog remained at the station, waiting for his master to return for the next five and a half years, until he was killed by an incoming train in 1942.\n\nThe dog once belonged to an unknown sheep herder near Fort Benton, Montana. When his owner became ill in August 1936, he went into St. Clare Hospital at Fort Benton for treatment, and brought his herding dog with him. A few days later he died, and his relatives back east sent for his body. The dog followed his casket to the railroad station and watched while it was being loaded on a train heading to the eastern USA. He would greet every train that arrived each day after that, expecting his master to return.\n\nIt took station employees some time to realize that the body in the casket was probably the dog's master, and it was showing up for each incoming train to see if his master would be getting off. The dog was later given the name \"Shep\" and the station employees took care of him and he lived in and around the station, becoming well known to everyone who passed through.\n\nA few years into his time at the station, Shep and his story was featured in \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\".\n\nShep kept this daily vigil for almost six years until he was run over by a train on January 12, 1942. It is believed that his front paws were on one of the rails and he simply did not hear the train until it was too late, and he slipped off the rail. The train's engineer could not stop the train in time.\n\nA few days later, Shep's funeral was attended by nearly everyone in Fort Benton. \"Eulogy on the Dog\", though written for another dog, was read at the funeral. Boy Scout Troop 47, who were the pallbearers and honor guard for Shep, helped carry his coffin to the dog’s grave on a lonely bluff, a hillside overlooking the town. The Great Northern Railroad put up a simple obelisk, with a painted wooden cutout of Shep next to it. Just beneath, white stones spelled out SHEP. Lights illuminated the display at night.\n\nThe passenger line eventually stopped coming through Fort Benton, and the grave fell into disrepair. In 1988, the grave was repaired and refurbished. The Shep cutout is now painted steel, and lights are back up. The grave site is currently maintained by the Kiwanis Key Club and Fort Benton Community Improvement Society, and a small parking area and walking trail have been added behind the monument for easier access to the grave site.\n\nShep's collar and bowl were put on display at Museum of the Upper Missouri, Fort Benton, Montana.\n\nShep's story is retold as historical fiction in \"Shep Forever Faithful\" by Stewart H. Beveridge and Lee Nelson.\n\nThe folk song \"Ol Shep\", sung by Ramblin' Jack Elliott, is related but tells a different story.\n\nA bronze sculpture by Bob Scriver of Shep, with his front paws on a rail, was unveiled in Fort Benton in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1374669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374669", "title": "Silverpit crater", "text": "Silverpit crater\n\nSilverpit crater is a buried sub-sea structure under the North Sea off the coast of the island of Great Britain. The 20 km crater-like form, named after the Silver Pit — a nearby sea-floor valley recognized by generations of fishermen — was discovered during the routine analysis of seismic data collected during exploration for gas in the Southern North Sea Sedimentary Basin. Its meteor impact origin was first proposed and widely reported in 2002. If correct, it would be the first impact crater identified in or near Great Britain. Its age was proposed to lie somewhere in a 29-million year interval between 74 – 45 million years (Late Cretaceous – Eocene).\n\nHowever, the interpretation is controversial and other authors have disputed its extraterrestrial origin. An alternative origin has been proposed in which the feature was created by withdrawal of rock support by salt mobility.\n\nThe crater-like structure was discovered by petroleum geoscientists Simon Stewart and Philip Allen. Analyzing seismic data for a region 130 km off the Humber estuary, Allen noticed an unusual set of concentric rings. Thinking they resembled a meteor-strike but lacking experience in impact structures, he hung an image of them on the wall of his office, hoping someone else might be able to shed light on the mystery. Stewart, who had long predicted that a crater would be found on 3D seismic data, saw the image and suggested it might be an impact feature. The discovery of the crater and the impact hypothesis were reported in the journal \"Nature\" in 2002.\n\nSilverpit crater is named after the Silver Pit fishing grounds in which it is located. The name is given by fishermen to a large elongated depression in the bed of the North Sea, which is thought to be an old river valley formed while the sea level was lower during the Ice Age. The structure currently lies below a layer of sediment up to 1,500 m thick, which forms the bed of the North Sea at a depth of about 40 m. Stewart and Allen's studies suggest that at the time of its formation, the area was under 50 to 300 m of water.\n\nOnly three years before the announcement of the discovery of the Silverpit crater, it had been suggested that seismic data from the North Sea would have a good chance of containing evidence of an impact crater: given the rate of crater formation on the Earth and the size of the North Sea, the expected number of impact craters would be one.\n\nThe origin of the crater is currently being hotly debated by the Geoscience community with alternate theories of salt withdrawal and pull-apart basin proposed, raising doubts as to Silverpit's categorization as an impact structure.\n\nOther mechanisms for producing a crater were considered and rejected by Allen and Stewart when they discovered the crater. Volcanism was excluded because there were no magnetic anomalies in the crater, which would be expected if eruptions had occurred there. Withdrawal of salt deposits below the crater, known to be a mechanism for the formation of some craters, was ruled out because the Triassic and Permian layers of rock beneath the crater appeared to be undisturbed. Another strong indication that an impact had created the crater was the presence of a central peak - something that Stewart & Allen contend is difficult to form except through a meteorite impact.\n\nAnalysis of regional 2D seismic lines and 3D seismic volumes by John Underhill, a geologist at the University of Edinburgh, led to the counterproposal that withdrawal of Upper Permian (Zechstein Supergroup) salt at depth was in fact a better explanation. Underhill found that all layers of rock down to the Permian (with an age of about 250 million years) are synclinically folded, and that sediments of Tertiary age at the crater onlap its sides and thicken into its axis, suggesting that the salt was moving (a process called halokinesis) while Tertiary sediments were being laid down.\n\nIn 2007, Underhill continued to present evidence that he argues does not support the impact hypothesis. After analyzing seismic data over a wide region, he proposed that Silverpit was just one of many similar features related to the withdrawal of the Permian-age Zechstein salt. This result was presented at the April 2007 annual meeting of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists \n\nUnderhill then focused his research attention upon understanding why the salt moves where it does when it does and why the so-called crater took the form that it did. This led him to publish a peer-review article in the journal, \"Petroleum Geoscience\" in August 2009 in which he outlined the evidence for an intrusion-related salt withdrawal cause for the feature's formation.\n\nIn October 2009, an open debate of the notion that \"the Silverpit Crater was formed by meteor impact\" was held at the Geological Society of London. Simon Stewart gave the case for the motion and John Underhill presented the case against. The outcome was overwhelming support for Underhill's alternative genesis through melt-induced salt withdrawal.\n\nSilverpit crater is about 3 km wide at the top Cretaceous level. Unusually for a terrestrial crater, it is surrounded by a set of concentric rings, which extend to about 10 km radius from the centre. These rings give the crater a somewhat similar appearance to Valhalla crater on Jupiter's moon Callisto, and other craters on Europa. Normally, multi-ringed craters tend to be much larger than Silverpit, and so, if the impact hypothesis is correct, the origin of Silverpit's rings is subject to debate. A complicating factor is that almost all known impact craters are on land, despite the fact that two-thirds of impacting objects will land in oceans and seas, so the results of impacts on water are much less well established than those of impacts on land. Compare the Chesapeake Bay impact crater, probably the most thoroughly studied marine impact zone.\n\nOne possibility is that after the impact excavated a bowl-shaped depression, soft material surrounding it slumped towards the centre, leaving the concentric rings. It is thought that for this to happen, the soft material would have to be quite a thin layer, with more brittle material on top. A thin layer of mobile material beneath a solid crust is easy to understand in the context of icy moons, but is not a common occurrence on the rocky bodies of the solar system. One suggestion is that overpressured chalk below the surface may have acted as the soft mobile layer.\n\nIf one assumes the meteor impact theory is right, the size of the crater can be combined with assumptions about the speed of an impacting object to estimate the size of the impactor itself. Impacting objects are generally moving at speeds of the order of 20–50 km/s, and at these speeds an object about 120 m (393 feet) across and with a mass of 2.0×10 kg (2 million tonnes) would be required to form a Silverpit-sized crater, if the object was rocky. If it had been a comet, the crater would have been larger.\n\nFor comparison, the object which struck the Earth at Chicxulub is estimated to have measured approximately 9.6 km (6 miles) across, while the object responsible for the Tunguska event in 1908 is thought to have been a comet or asteroid about 60 m (196 feet) across, with a mass of about 4×10 kg.\n\nAn object 120 m (393 feet) across smashing into the sea at many kilometers per second would generate enormous tsunamis. Scientists are currently searching for any evidence of large tsunamis in the surrounding areas dating from around that time, but no such evidence has been uncovered yet.\n\nThe position of the crater within the layers of rock and sediment on the sea floor could in theory be used to constrain its age: sediments laid down before the crater's formation might conceivably be disturbed by the impact, while those laid down afterwards will not. In their discovery paper, Allen and Stewart stated that Silverpit was formed in Cretaceous chalk and Jurassic shale, but is covered by an undisturbed layer of Paleogene sediment. The Cretaceous Period ended about 66 million years ago, but, on the evidence of nearby boreholes, the lowermost Paleogene sediments appear to be absent. Thus the age of the Silverpit event was initially stated to lie somewhere between 66 and 60 million years before present. However, after a more detailed apprasial of the seismic data, Allen and Stewart gave a more cautious estimate of the age as between 74 – 45 million years (Late Cretaceous – Eocene).\n\nThe stratigraphic method of estimating the age of a crater is somewhat crude and imprecise, and the result is questioned by Underhill's non-impact hypothesis. Assuming an impact origin, other possible ways of dating the event include looking for evidence of ejecta material such as tektites, and deposits from the hypothesised tsunami, which might be found anywhere around the North Sea basin. As well as allowing a more accurate age determination, finding such evidence would also strengthen the impact hypothesis. Two nearby oil exploration wells penetrate the ring system, yet cutting samples from these fail to provide any independent support for the meteor theory, thus weakening the case for it being due to an extraterrestrial body.\n\nAnalysis of samples taken directly from the central crater would also assist age determination as well as confirm one or other of the proposed theories; until this has occurred Silverpit cannot be confirmed as an impact structure.\n\nThe early estimate of the age of the Silverpit event, stated as 66 – 60 million years before present, overlaps with the age of the Chicxulub impact near the northwest corner of the Yucatan Peninsula, which occurred 66 million years ago and probably played a major role in the extinction of the dinosaurs. Several other large impact craters of around the same age have been discovered, all between latitudes 20°N and 70°N, leading to the speculative hypothesis that the Chicxulub impact may have been only one of several impacts that happened all at the same time.\n\nThe collision of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 with Jupiter in 1994 proved that gravitational interactions can fragment a comet, giving rise to many impacts over a period of a few days if the comet fragments should collide with a planet. Comets frequently undergo gravitational interactions with the gas giants, and similar disruptions and collisions are very likely to have occurred in the past.\n\nWhile this scenario may have occurred on Earth 66 million years ago, evidence for this hypothesis is not strong. In particular, the ages of some of the possibly related craters are only known to an accuracy of a few million years. Also, the now widely held previously stated belief that Silverpit was not formed by bolide impact reduces the possibility of it being involved in this hypothesis. Even if it were formed by bolide impact, the increased uncertainty in the age estimate for Silverpit to 74 – 45 million years further weakens the hypothesis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19186813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19186813", "title": "Stoning", "text": "Stoning\n\nStoning, or lapidation, is a method of capital punishment whereby a group throws stones at a person until the subject dies. No individual among the group can be identified as the one who kills the subject. This is in contrast to the case of a judicial executioner. Often slower than other forms of execution, stoning within the context of contemporary Western culture is considered a form of execution by torture.\n\nStoning is called \"rajm\" (Arabic: ) in Islamic literature, and is a legal or customary punishment found in the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Iraq, Qatar, Mauritania, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen, northern Nigeria, Aceh Province of Indonesia, Afghanistan, and tribal parts of Pakistan, including northwest Kurram Valley and the northwest Khwezai-Baezai region. In some countries, such as Afghanistan and Iraq, stoning has been declared illegal by the state, but is practiced extrajudicially. In several others, people have been sentenced to death by stoning, but the sentence has not been carried out. In modern times, allegations of stoning are politically sensitive; the government of Iran, for example, describes allegations of stoning as political propaganda.\n\nThe Jewish Torah (the first five books of the Hebrew Bible: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy) serves as a common religious reference for Judaism. Stoning is the method of execution mentioned most frequently in the Torah. (Murder is not mentioned as an offense punishable by stoning, but it seems that a member of the victim's family was allowed to kill the murderer; see avenger of blood.) The crimes punishable by stoning were the following:\n\n\nDescribing the stoning of those who entice others to apostates from Judaism, the Torah states:\nA case noted in the Bible, not falling into any of the above categories, was that of Achan, stoned to death together with his sheep, other livestock and his children for having pillaged valuables from Jericho during Joshua's Conquest of Canaan.\n\nThe Talmud describes four methods of execution: stoning, pouring molten lead down the throat of the condemned person, beheading, and strangulation (see Capital and corporal punishment in Judaism). The Mishna gives the following list of persons who should be stoned.\n\n\"To the following sinners stoning applies – אלו הן הנסקלין\n\nAs God alone was deemed to be the only arbiter in the use of capital punishment, not fallible people, the Sanhedrin made stoning a hypothetical upper limit on the severity of punishment.\n\nPrior to early Christianity, particularly in the Mishnah, doubts were growing in Jewish society about the effectiveness of capital punishment in general (and stoning in particular) in acting as a useful deterrent. Subsequently, its use was dissuaded by the central legislators. The Mishnah states:\n\nA Sanhedrin that puts a man to death once in seven years is called destructive. Rabbi Eliezer ben Azariah says that this extends to a Sanhedrin that puts a man to death even once in seventy years. Rabbi Akiba and Rabbi Tarfon say: Had we been in the Sanhedrin none would ever have been put to death. Rabban Simeon ben Gamaliel says: they would have multiplied shedders of blood in Israel.\n\nIn the following centuries the leading Jewish sages imposed so many restrictions on the implementation of capital punishment as to make it \"de facto\" illegal. The restrictions were to prevent execution of the innocent, and included many conditions for a testimony to be admissible that were difficult to fulfill.\n\nPhilosopher Moses Maimonides wrote, \"It is better and more satisfactory to acquit a thousand guilty persons than to put a single innocent one to death.\" He was concerned that the law guard its public perception, to preserve its majesty and retain the people's respect. He saw errors of commission as much more threatening to the integrity of law than errors of omission.\n\nIn rabbinic law, capital punishment may only be inflicted by the verdict of a regularly constituted court of twenty-three qualified members. There must be the most trustworthy and convincing testimony of at least two qualified eyewitnesses to the crime, who must also depose that the culprit had been forewarned of the criminality and the consequences of his project. The culprit must be a person of legal age and of sound mind, and the crime must be proved to have been committed of the culprit's free will and without the aid of others.\n\nOn the day the verdict is pronounced, the convict is led forth to execution. The Torah law (Leviticus 19:18) prescribes, \"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself\"; and the Rabbis maintain that this love must be extended beyond the limits of social intercourse in life, and applied even to the convicted criminal who, \"though a sinner, is still thy brother\" (Mak. 3:15; Sanh. 44a): \"The spirit of love must be manifested by according him a decent death\" (Sanh. 45a, 52a). Torah law provides (Deut. 24:16), \"The parents shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the parents; every man shall be put to death for his own sins\", and rabbinic jurisprudence follows this principle both to the letter and in spirit. A sentence is not attended by confiscation of the convict's goods; the person's possessions descend to their legal heirs.\n\nThe Talmud limits the use of the death penalty to Jewish criminals who:\n\n\nIn theory, the Talmudic method of how stoning is to be carried out differs from mob stoning. According to the Jewish oral law, after the Jewish criminal has been determined as guilty before the Great Sanhedrin, the two valid witnesses and the sentenced criminal go to the edge of a two-story building. From there the two witnesses are to push the criminal off the roof of a two-story building. The two-story height is chosen as this height is estimated by the Talmud to effect a quick and painless demise but is not so high that the body will become dismembered. After the criminal has fallen, the two witnesses are to drop a large boulder onto the criminal – requiring both of the witnesses to lift the boulder together. If the criminal did not die from the fall or from the crushing of the large boulder, then any people in the surrounding area are to quickly cause him to die by stoning with whatever rocks they can find.\n\nIslamic sharia law is based on the Quran and the hadith as primary sources.\n\nThe Qur'an does not mention the act of stoning (Rajm) for any crime.\n\nContrary to popular belief, the punishment for Adultery (Zina) in the Quran is not stoning to death but flogging with a 100 lashes (if the accuser can provide 4 witnesses to the act). If the accuser cannot produce 4 witnesses, he himself will be punished by flogging with 80 lashes. \n\nHadith refers to orally transmitted reports of statements or actions attributed to Muhammad. It was forbidden to record any Hadith on paper by Muhammad himself, the first 4 righteous Caliphs after the death of Muhammed and the later Caliphs. They believed the Quran was clear, fully detailed, complete, perfect and sufficient. There were fears that people would confuse hadith with the Qur'an, influence would seep in from other creeds, fear for fabrications by heretics,for personal or political gain. The first Hadith (that have survived) were recorded 200 years after the prophets death. There were tens of thousands Muhaddiths who had each memorised at least 400,000 narrations along with the chain of narrators for each narration. Out of the hundreds of thousands of Hadith only a very, very small percentage were declared authentic (Sahih) by Hadith Scholars. Hadith Scholars used a number of methods of evaluation to determine the veracity of the recorded oral reports. This is achieved by analyzing the text of the report, the scale of the report's transmission, the routes through which the report was transmitted, the individual narrators involved in its transmission and cross-referincing the reports.\n\nMuslims vary in degrees of acceptance of the Hadith. To many Sunnite and Shiite Muslims (different collections of) the hadith are almost on par with the Quran itself. To others the Quran is the word of Allah but the Hadith are the words and deeds of a human (the prophet Muhammed) transmitted down by the 200 years old fallible memory of men. Useful but not completely reliable. Some Muslims give little to no credence to the Hadith. Then there are also the different sets of Hadith accepted by different branches of Islam (Temporary Marriage or Female Genital Mutilation) who consider each other's Hadith fake.\n\nStoning in the Sunnah mainly follows on the Jewish stoning rules of the Torah. A few hadiths refer to Muhammad ordering the stoning of a married Jewish man and a married woman committing an illegal sexual act after consulting the Torah.\n\nIn a few others, a Bedouin man is lashed, while a Jewish woman is stoned to death, for having sex outside marriage.\n\nStoning is described as punishment in multiple hadiths. Shia and Sunni hadith collections differ because scholars from the two traditions differ as to the reliability of the narrators and transmitters and the Imamah. Shi'a sayings related to stoning can be found in Kitab al-Kafi, and Sunni sayings related to stoning can be found in the Sahih Bukhari and Sahih Muslim. Based on these hadiths, in some Muslim countries, married adulterers are sentenced to death, while consensual sex between unmarried people results in 100 lashes.\n\nHadiths describe stoning as punishment under sharia. In others stoning is prescribed as punishment for illegal sex between man and woman, illegal sex by a slave girl, as well as anyone involved in any homosexual relations. In some sunnah, the method of stoning, by first digging a pit and partly burying the person's lower half in it, is described.\n\nStoning (Arabic: رجم \"Rajm\", sometimes spelled as \"Rajam\") has been extensively discussed in the texts of early, medieval and modern era Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh).\n\nAccording to traditional jurisprudence, zina can include adultery (of married parties), fornication (of unmarried parties), prostitution, bestiality, and rape. Classification of homosexual intercourse as zina differs according to legal school. Although stoning for zina is not mentioned in the Quran, all schools of traditional jurisprudence agreed on the basis of hadith that it is to be punished by stoning if the offender is \"muhsan\" (adult, free, Muslim, and having been married), with some extending this punishment to certain other cases and milder punishment prescribed in other scenarios. The offenders must have acted of their own free will. According to traditional jurisprudence, zina must be proved by testimony of four eyewitnesses to the actual act of penetration, or a confession repeated four times and not retracted later. The Maliki legal school also allows an unmarried woman's pregnancy to be used as evidence, but the punishment can be averted by a number of legal \"semblances\" (\"shubuhat\"), such as existence of an invalid marriage contract. These requirements made zina virtually impossible to prove in practice. Rape was traditionally prosecuted under different legal categories which used normal evidentiary rules. Making an accusation of zina without presenting the required eyewitnesses is called \"qadhf\" (القذف), which is itself a \"hadd\" crime liable to a punishment of 80 lashes and to be unacceptable as witnesses unless they repent and reform.\n\nAccording to the Islamic concept of \"Li'an\", the testimony of a man who accuses his own wife without any other witnesses may be accepted if he swears by God four times that he is telling the truth with a fifth oath to incur God's condemnation if they be lying. In this case, if his wife counter swears, no punishment will be enforced.\nOne of the widely followed Islamic legal commentaries, \"Al-Muwatta\" by Malik ibn Anas, state that contested pregnancy is sufficient proof of adultery and the woman must be stoned to death.\n\nHanafi jurists have held that the accused must be a \"muhsan\" at the time of religiously disallowed sex, to be punished by \"Rajm\" (stoning). A \"Muhsan\" is an adult, free, Muslim who has previously enjoyed legitimate sexual relations in matrimony, regardless of whether the marriage still exists. In other words, stoning does not apply to someone who was never married in his or her life (only lashing in public is the mandatory punishment in such cases).\n\nFor evidence, Hanafi fiqh accepts the following: self-confession, or testimony of four male witnesses (female witness is not acceptable). Hanafi Islamic law literature specifies two types of stoning. One, when the punishment is based on \"bayyina\", or concrete evidence (four male witnesses). In this case the person is bound, a pit dug, the bound person placed and partially buried inside the pit so that he or she may not escape, thereafter the public stoning punishment is executed. A woman sentenced to stoning must be partially buried up to her chest. The first stones are thrown by the witnesses and the accuser, thereafter the Muslim community present, stated Abū Ḥanīfa and other Hanafi scholars. In second type of stoning, when the punishment is based on self-confession, the stoning is to be performed without digging a pit or partially burying the person. In this case, the qadi (judge) should throw the first stone before other Muslims join in. Further, if the person flees, the person is allowed to leave.\n\nHanafi scholars specify the stone size to be used for \"Rajm\", to be the size of one's hand. It should not be too large to cause death too quickly, nor too small to extend only pain.\n\nHanafis have traditionally held that the witnesses should throw the first stones in case the conviction was brought about by witnesses, and the \"qadi\" must throw the first stones in case the conviction was brought about by a confession.\n\nThe Shafii school literature has the same Islamic law analysis as the Hanafi. However, it recommends, that the first stone be thrown by the Imam or his deputy in all cases, followed by the Muslim community witnessing the stoning punishment.\n\nHanbali jurist Ibn Qudamah states, \"Muslim jurists are unanimous on the fact that stoning to death is a specified punishment for the married adulterer and adulteress. The punishment is recorded in number of traditions and the practice of Muhammad stands as an authentic source supporting it. This is the view held by all Companions, Successors and other Muslim scholars with the exception of Kharijites.\"\n\nHanbali Islamic law sentences all forms of consensual but religiously illegal sex as punishable with \"Rajm\".\n\nMaliki school of jurisprudence (fiqh) holds that stoning is the required punishment for illegal sex by a married or widowed person, as well as for any form of homosexual relations among men. Malik ibn Anas, founded of Maliki fiqh, considered pregnancy in an unmarried woman as a conclusive proof of zina. He also stated that contested pregnancy is also sufficient proof of adultery and any Muslim woman who is pregnant by a man who she is not married to, at the time of getting pregnant, must be stoned to death. Later Maliki Muslim scholars admitted the concept of \"sleeping embryo\", where a divorced woman could escape the stoning punishment, if she remained unmarried and became pregnant anytime within five years of her divorce, and it was assumed that she was impregnated by her previous husband but the embryo remained dormant for five years.\n\nStoning appears to have been practiced by the Aztecs.\nAs of September 2010, stoning is a punishment that is included in the laws in some countries including Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Iran, Somalia, Yemen and some predominantly Muslim states in northern Nigeria as punishment for Zina (\"adultery by married persons\").\n\nStoning is illegal in Afghanistan, but is sometimes carried out by tribal leaders and Taliban insurgents extrajudicially in certain parts of the country. Before the Taliban government, most areas of Afghanistan, aside from the capital, Kabul, were controlled by warlords or tribal leaders. The Afghan legal system depended highly on an individual community's local culture and the political or religious ideology of its leaders. Stoning also occurred in lawless areas, where vigilantes committed the act for political purposes. Once the Taliban took over, it became a form of punishment for certain serious crimes or adultery. After the fall of the Taliban government, the Karzai administration re-enforced the 1976 penal code which made no provision for the use of stoning as a punishment. In 2013, the Ministry of Justice proposed public stoning as punishment for adultery. However, the government had to back down from the proposal after it was leaked and triggered international outcry. While stoning is officially banned in Afghanistan, it has continued to be reported occasionally as a crime.\n\nIn October 2013, Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah announced that stoning, along with flogging and amputations, would be added to the country's laws in accordance with sharia law.\n\nOn 14 September 2009, the outgoing Aceh Legislative Council passed a bylaw that called for the stoning of married adulterers. However, then governor Irwandi Yusuf refused to sign the bylaw, thereby keeping it a law without legal force and, in some views, therefore still a law \"draft\", rather than actual law. In March 2013, the Aceh government removed the stoning provision from its own draft of a new criminal code.\n\nThe Iranian judiciary officially placed a moratorium on stoning in 2002; however, in 2007, the Iranian judiciary confirmed that a man who had been convicted of adultery 10 years earlier, was stoned to death in Qazvin province. In 2008, the judiciary tried to eliminate the punishment from the books in legislation submitted to parliament for approval. In 2009, two people were stoned to death in Mashhad, Razavi Khorasan Province as punishment for the crime of adultery. In early 2013, a spokesman for judicial committee of Iran's parliament stated that stoning is no longer mentioned in Iran's legislation, but that punishment will remain the same as it is in Islamic law. He questioned Western enmity against Iran, and termed the campaign to remove \"rajm\" as noise against the implementation of Islamic law in Iran. Legal scholars concur that while certain stoning-related passages have been removed from Iran's new penal code, other passages in the new code refer to stoning, and stoning remains a possible form of punishment under the new Iranian penal code. The most known case in Iran was the stoning of Soraya Manutchehri in 1986.\n\n\nIn the 2008 version of the Islamic Penal Code of Iran detailed how stoning punishments are to be carried out for adultery, and even hints in some contexts that the punishment may allow for its victims to avoid death:\n\nArticle 102 – An adulterous man shall be buried in a ditch up to near his waist and an adulterous woman up to near her chest and then stoned to death.\nArticle 103 – In case the person sentenced to stoning escapes the ditch in which they are buried, then if the adultery is proven by testimony then they will be returned for the punishment but if it is proven by their own confession then they will not be returned.\nArticle 104 – The size of the stone used in stoning shall not be too large to kill the convict by one or two throws and at the same time shall not be too small to be called a stone.\n\nDepending upon the details of the case, the stoning may be initiated by the judge overseeing the matter or by one of the original witnesses to the adultery. Certain religious procedures may also need to be followed both before and after the implementation of a stoning execution, such as wrapping the person being stoned in traditional burial dress before the procedure.\n\nThe method of stoning set out in the 2008 code was similar to that in a 1999 version of Iran's penal code. Iran revised its penal code in 2013. The new code does not include the above passages, but does include stoning as a hadd punishment. For example, Book I, Part III, Chapter 5, Article 132 of the new Islamic Penal Code (IPC) of 2013 in the Islamic Republic of Iran states, \"If a man and a woman commit zina together more than one time, if the death penalty and flogging or stoning and flogging are imposed, only the death penalty or stoning, whichever is applicable, shall be executed\". Book 2, Part II, Chapter 1, Article 225 of the Iran's IPC released in 2013 states, \"the hadd punishment for zina of a man and a woman who meet the conditions of ihsan shall be stoning to death\".\n\nIn 2007, Du'a Khalil Aswad, a Yazidi girl, was stoned by her fellow tribesmen in northern Iraq for dating a Muslim boy.\n\nIn 2012 at least 14 youths were stoned to death in Baghdad, apparently as part of a Shi'ite militant campaign against Western-style \"emo\" fashion.\n\nAn Iraqi man was stoned to death, in August 2014, in the northern city of Mosul after one Sunni Islamic court sentenced him to die for the crime of adultery.\n\nSince the sharia legal system was introduced in the predominantly Muslim north of Nigeria in 2000, more than a dozen Nigerian Muslims have been sentenced to death by stoning for sexual offences ranging from adultery to homosexuality. However, none of these sentences has actually been carried out. They have either been thrown out on appeal or commuted to prison terms as a result of pressure from human rights groups.\n\nAs part of Zia-ul-Haq's Islamization measures, stoning to death (\"rajm\") at a public place was introduced into law via the 1979 Hudood Ordinances as punishment for adultery (\"zina\") and rape (\"zina-bil-jabr\") when committed by a married person. However, stoning has never been officially utilized since the law came into effect and all judicial executions occur by hanging. The first conviction and sentence of stoning (of Fehmida and Allah-Bakhsh) in September 1981 was overturned under national and international pressure. A conviction for adultery of Safia Bibi, a 13-year-old blind girl who alleged that she was raped by her employer and his son, was reversed and the conviction was set aside on appeal after bitter public criticism. Another conviction for adultery and sentence of stoning (of Shahida Parveen and Muhammad Sarwar) in early 1988 sparked outrage and led to a retrial and acquittal by the Federal Sharia Court. In this case the trial court took the view that notice of divorce by Shahida's former husband, Khushi Muhammad, should have been given to the Chairman of the local council, as stipulated under Section-7(3) of the \"Muslim Family Laws Ordinance\", 1961. This section states that any man who divorces his wife must register it with the Union Council. Otherwise, the court concluded that the divorce stood invalidated and the couple became liable to conviction under the Adultery ordinance. In 2006, the ordinances providing for stoning in the case of adultery or rape were legislatively demoted from overriding status.\n\nExtrajudicial stonings in Pakistan have been known to happen in recent times. In March 2013, Pakistani soldier Anwar Din, stationed in Parachinar, was publicly stoned to death for allegedly having a love affair with a girl from a village in the country's north western Kurram Agency. On 11 July 2013, Arifa Bibi, a young mother of two, was sentenced by a tribal court in Dera Ghazi Khan District, in Punjab, to be stoned to death for possessing a cell phone. Members of her family were ordered to execute her sentence and her body was buried in the desert far away from her village.\n\nIn February 2014, a couple in a remote area of Baluchistan province was stoned to death after being accused of an adulterous relationship. On 27 May 2014, Farzana Parveen, a 25-year-old married woman who was three months pregnant, was killed by being attacked with batons and bricks by nearly 20 members of her family outside the high court of Lahore in front of \"a crowd of onlookers\" according to a statement by a police investigator. The assailants, who allegedly included her father and brothers, attacked Farzana and her husband Mohammad Iqbal with batons and bricks. Her father Mohammad Azeem, who was arrested for murder, reportedly called the murder an \"honor killing\" and said \"I killed my daughter as she had insulted all of our family by marrying a man without our consent.\" The man whose second wife Farzana had become, Iqbal, told a news agency that he had strangled his previous wife in order to marry Farzana, and police said that he had been released for killing his first wife because a \"compromise\" had been reached with his family.\n\nLegal stoning sentences have been reported in Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn May 2012, a Sudanese court convicted Intisar Sharif Abdallah of adultery and sentenced her to death; the charges were appealed and dropped two months later. In July 2012, a criminal court in Khartoum, Sudan, sentenced 23-year-old Layla Ibrahim Issa Jumul to death by stoning for adultery. Amnesty International reported that she was denied legal counsel during the trial and was convicted only on the basis of her confession. The organization designated her a prisoner of conscience, \"held in detention solely for consensual sexual relations\", and lobbied for her release. In September, Article 126 of the 1991 Sudan Criminal Law, which provided for death by stoning for apostasy, was amended to provide for death by hanging.\n\nIn October 2008, a girl, Aisha Ibrahim Duhulow, was buried up to her neck at a Somalian football stadium, then stoned to death in front of more than 1,000 people. The stoning occurred after she had allegedly pleaded guilty to adultery in a sharia court in Kismayo, a city that was controlled by Islamist insurgents. According to the insurgents she had stated that she wanted sharia law to apply. However, other sources state that the victim had been crying, had begged for mercy and had to be forced into the hole before being buried up to her neck in the ground. Amnesty International later learned that the girl was in fact 13 years old and had been arrested by al-Shabab militia after she had reported being gang-raped by three men.\n\nIn December 2009, another instance of stoning was publicised after Mohamed Abukar Ibrahim was accused of adultery by the Hizbul Islam militant group.\n\nIn September 2014, Somali al Shabaab militants stoned a woman to death, after she was declared guilty of adultery by an informal court.\n\nStoning is a legal form of judicial punishment in UAE. In 2006, an expatriate was sentenced to death by stoning for committing adultery. Between 2009 and 2013, several people were sentenced to death by stoning. In May 2014, an Asian housemaid was sentenced to death by stoning in Abu Dhabi.\n\nSeveral adultery executions by stoning committed by IS have been reported in the autumn of 2014. The Islamic State's magazine, Dabiq, documented the stoning of a woman in Raqqa as a punishment for adultery.\n\nIn October 2014, IS released a video appearing to show a Syrian man stone his daughter to death for alleged adultery.\n\nThe late American Calvinist and Christian Reconstructionist cleric Rousas John (R. J.) Rushdoony, his son Mark and his son-in-law Gary North, supported the reinstatement of the Mosaic law's penal sanctions. Under such a system, the list of civil crimes which carried a death sentence by stoning would include homosexuality, adultery, incest, lying about one's virginity, bestiality, witchcraft, idolatry or apostasy, public blasphemy, false prophesying, kidnapping, rape, and bearing false witness in a capital case.\n\nA survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2013 found varying support in the global Muslim population for stoning as a punishment for adultery (sex between people where at least one person is married; when both participants are unmarried they get 100 lashes). Highest support for stoning is found in Muslims of the Middle East-North Africa region and South-Asian countries while generally less support is found in Muslims living in the Mediterranean and Central Asian countries. Support is consistently higher in Muslims who want Sharia to be the law of the land than in Muslims who do not want Sharia. Support for stoning in various countries is as follows:\n\nSouth Asia:\n\nPakistan (86% in all Muslims, 89% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Afghanistan (84% in all Muslims, 85% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Bangladesh (54% in all Muslims, 55% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land)\nMiddle East-North Africa:\n\nPalestinian territories (81% in all Muslims, 84% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Egypt (80% in all Muslims, 81% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Jordan (65% in all Muslims, 67% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Iraq (57% in all Muslims, 58% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land)\n\nSoutheast Asia:\n\nMalaysia (54% in all Muslims, 60% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Indonesia (42% in all Muslims, 48% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Thailand (44% in all Muslims, 51% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land)\nSub-Saharan Africa:\n\nNiger (70% in all Muslims), Djibouti (67%), Mali (58%), Senegal (58%), Guinea Bissau (54%), Tanzania (45%), Ghana (42%), DR Congo (39%), Cameroon (36%), Nigeria (33%)\n\nCentral Asia:\n\nKyrgyzstan (26% in all Muslims, 39% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Tajikistan (25% in all Muslims, 51% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Azerbaijan (16%), Turkey (9% in all Muslims, 29% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land)\nSouthern and Eastern Europe:\n\nRussia (13% in all Muslims, 26% in Muslims who say sharia should be the law of the land), Kosovo (9% in all Muslims, 25% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Albania (6% in all Muslims, 25% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land), Bosnia (6% in all Muslims, 21% in Muslims who say Sharia should be the law of the land)\n\nPlaces where substantial numbers of Muslims did not answer the survey's question or are undecided about whether they support stoning for adultery include Malaysia (19% of all Muslims), Kosovo (18%), Iraq (14%), Democratic Republic of the Congo (12%) and Tajikistan (10%).\n\nStoning has been condemned by several human rights organizations. Some groups, such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, oppose all capital punishment, including stoning. Other groups, such as RAWA (Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan), or the International Committee against Stoning (ICAS), oppose stoning \"per se\" as an especially cruel practice.\n\nSpecific sentences of stoning, such as the Amina Lawal case, have often generated international protest. Groups such as Human Rights Watch, while in sympathy with these protests, have raised a concern that the Western focus on stoning as an especially \"exotic\" or \"barbaric\" act distracts from what they view as the larger problems of capital punishment. They argue that the \"more fundamental human rights issue in Nigeria is the dysfunctional justice system.\"\n\nIn Iran, the Stop Stoning Forever Campaign was formed by various women's rights activists after a man and a woman were stoned to death in Mashhad in May 2006. The campaign's main goal is to legally abolish stoning as a form of punishment for adultery in Iran.\n\nStoning is condemned by human rights groups as a form of cruel and unusual punishment and torture, and a serious violation of human rights.\n\nStoning has been condemned as a violation of women's rights and a form of discrimination against women. Although stoning is also applied to men, the vast majority of the victims are reported to be women.\nAccording to the international group Women Living Under Muslim Laws stoning \"is one of the most brutal forms of violence perpetrated against women in order to control and punish their sexuality and basic freedoms\".\n\nAmnesty International has argued that the reasons for which women suffer disproportionately from stoning include the fact that women are not treated equally and fairly by the courts; the fact that, being more likely to be illiterate than men, women are more likely to sign confessions to crimes which they did not commit; and the fact that general discrimination against women in other life aspects leaves them at higher risk of convictions for adultery.\n\nStoning also targets homosexuals and others who have same-sex relations in certain jurisdictions. In Mauritania, northern Nigeria, Somalia and Yemen, the legal punishment for sodomy is death by stoning.\n\nHuman rights organizations argue that many acts targeted by stoning should not be illegal in the first place, as outlawing them interferes with people's right to a private life. Amnesty International said that stoning deals with \"acts which should never be criminalized in the first place, including consensual sexual relations between adults, and choosing one’s religion\".\n\n\n\n\nIn the Tanakh (Old Testament):\n\nIn the New Testament:\nIn the Talmud\n\n\nIn the Tanakh and Old Testament:\n\nIn the New Testament:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14509578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14509578", "title": "The Emotion Machine", "text": "The Emotion Machine\n\nThe Emotion Machine: Commonsense Thinking, Artificial Intelligence, and the Future of the Human Mind is a 2006 book by cognitive scientist Marvin Minsky that elaborates and expands on Minsky's ideas as presented in his earlier book \"Society of Mind\".\n\nMinsky argues that emotions are different ways to think that our mind uses to increase our intelligence. He challenges the distinction between emotions and other kinds of thinking. His main argument is that emotions are \"ways to think\" for different \"problem types\" that exist in the world, and that the brain has rule-based mechanisms (selectors) that turn on emotions to deal with various problems. The book reviews the accomplishments of AI, why modelling an AI is difficult in terms of replicating the behaviors of humans, if and how AIs think, and in what manner they might experience struggles and pleasures.\n\nIn a review for \"The Washington Post\", neurologist Richard Restak states that:\nMinsky outlines the book as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47527969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47527969", "title": "Word2vec", "text": "Word2vec\n\nWord2vec is a group of related models that are used to produce word embeddings. These models are shallow, two-layer neural networks that are trained to reconstruct linguistic contexts of words. Word2vec takes as its input a large corpus of text and produces a vector space, typically of several hundred dimensions, with each unique word in the corpus being assigned a corresponding vector in the space. Word vectors are positioned in the vector space such that words that share common contexts in the corpus are located in close proximity to one another in the space.\n\nWord2vec was created by a team of researchers led by Tomas Mikolov at Google. The algorithm has been subsequently analysed and explained by other researchers. Embedding vectors created using the Word2vec algorithm have many advantages compared to earlier algorithms such as latent semantic analysis.\n\nWord2vec can utilize either of two model architectures to produce a distributed representation of words: continuous bag-of-words (CBOW) or continuous skip-gram. In the continuous bag-of-words architecture, the model predicts the current word from a window of surrounding context words. The order of context words does not influence prediction (bag-of-words assumption). In the continuous skip-gram architecture, the model uses the current word to predict the surrounding window of context words. The skip-gram architecture weighs nearby context words more heavily than more distant context words. According to the authors' note, CBOW is faster while skip-gram is slower but does a better job for infrequent words.\n\nResults of word2vec training can be sensitive to parametrization. The following are some important parameters in word2vec training.\n\nA Word2vec model can be trained with hierarchical softmax and/or negative sampling. To approximate the conditional log-likelihood a model seeks to maximize, the hierarchical softmax method uses a Huffman tree to reduce calculation. The negative sampling method, on the other hand, approaches the maximization problem by minimizing the log-likelihood of sampled negative instances. According to the authors, hierarchical softmax works better for infrequent words while negative sampling works better for frequent words and better with low dimensional vectors. As training epochs increase, hierarchical softmax stops being useful.\n\nHigh frequency words often provide little information. Words with frequency above a certain threshold may be subsampled to increase training speed.\n\nQuality of word embedding increases with higher dimensionality. But after reaching some point, marginal gain will diminish. Typically, the dimensionality of the vectors is set to be between 100 and 1,000.\n\nThe size of the context window determines how many words before and after a given word would be included as context words of the given word. According to the authors' note, the recommended value is 10 for skip-gram and 5 for CBOW.\n\nAn extension of word2vec to construct embeddings from entire documents (rather than the individual words) has been proposed. This extension is called paragraph2vec or doc2vec and has been implemented in the C, Python and Java/Scala tools (see below), with the Java and Python versions also supporting inference of document embeddings on new, unseen documents.\n\nAn extension of word vectors for n-grams in biological sequences (e.g. DNA, RNA, and Proteins) for bioinformatics applications have been proposed by Asgari and Mofrad. Named bio-vectors (BioVec) to refer to biological sequences in general with protein-vectors (ProtVec) for proteins (amino-acid sequences) and gene-vectors (GeneVec) for gene sequences, this representation can be widely used in applications of machine learning in proteomics and genomics. The results suggest that BioVectors can characterize biological sequences in terms of biochemical and biophysical interpretations of the underlying patterns. A similar variant, dna2vec, has shown that there is correlation between Needleman-Wunsch similarity score and cosine similarity of dna2vec word vectors.\n\nAn extension of word vectors for creating a dense vector representation of unstructured radiology reports has been proposed by Banerjee et. al. One of the biggest challenges with Word2Vec is how to handle unknown or out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words and morphologically similar words. This can particularly be an issue in domains like medicine where synonyms and related words can be used depending on the preferred style of radiologist, and words may have been used infrequently in a large corpus. If the word2vec model has not encountered a particular word before, it will be forced to use a random vector, which is generally far from its ideal representation.\n\nIWE combines Word2vec with a semantic dictionary mapping technique to tackle the major challenges of information extraction from clinical texts, which include ambiguity of free text narrative style, lexical variations, use of ungrammatical and telegraphic phases, arbitrary ordering of words, and frequent appearance of abbreviations and acronyms. Of particular interest, the IWE model (trained on the one institutional dataset) successfully translated to a different institutional dataset which demonstrates good generalizability of the approach across institutions.\n\nThe reasons for successful word embedding learning in the word2vec framework are poorly understood. Goldberg and Levy point out that the word2vec objective function causes words that occur in similar contexts to have similar embeddings (as measured by cosine similarity) and note that this is in line with J. R. Firth's distributional hypothesis. However, they note that this explanation is \"very hand-wavy\" and argue that a more formal explanation would be preferable.\n\nLevy et al. (2015) show that much of the superior performance of word2vec or similar embeddings in downstream tasks is not a result of the models per se, but of the choice of specific hyperparameters. Transferring these hyperparameters to more 'traditional' approaches yields similar performances in downstream tasks.\n\nThe word embedding approach is able to capture multiple different degrees of similarity between words. Mikolov et al. (2013) found that semantic and syntactic patterns can be reproduced using vector arithmetic. Patterns such as “Man is to Woman as Brother is to Sister” can be generated through algebraic operations on the vector representations of these words such that the vector representation of “Brother” - ”Man” + ”Woman” produces a result which is closest to the vector representation of “Sister” in the model. Such relationships can be generated for a range of semantic relations (such as Country–Capital) as well as syntactic relations (e.g. present tense–past tense)\n\nMikolov et al. (2013) develop an approach to assessing the quality of a word2vec model which draws on the semantic and syntactic patterns discussed above. They developed a set of 8,869 semantic relations and 10,675 syntactic relations which they use as a benchmark to test the accuracy of a model. When assessing the quality of a vector model, a user may draw on this accuracy test which is implemented in word2vec, or develop their own test set which is meaningful to the corpora which make up the model. This approach offers a more challenging test than simply arguing that the words most similar to a given test word are intuitively plausible.\n\nThe use of different model parameters and different corpus sizes can greatly affect the quality of a word2vec model. Accuracy can be improved in a number of ways, including the choice of model architecture (CBOW or Skip-Gram), increasing the training data set, increasing the number of vector dimensions, and increasing the window size of words considered by the algorithm. Each of these improvements comes with the cost of increased computational complexity and therefore increased model generation time.\n\nIn models using large corpora and a high number of dimensions, the skip-gram model yields the highest overall accuracy, and consistently produces the highest accuracy on semantic relationships, as well as yielding the highest syntactic accuracy in most cases. However, the CBOW is less computationally expensive and yields similar accuracy results.\n\nAccuracy increases overall as the number of words used increases, and as the number of dimensions increases. Mikolov et al. report that doubling the amount of training data results in an increase in computational complexity equivalent to doubling the number of vector dimensions.\n\nAltszyler et al. (2017) studied Word2vec performance in two semantic tests for different corpus size. They found that Word2vec has a steep learning curve, outperforming another word-embedding technique (LSA) when it is trained with medium to large corpus size (more than 10 million words). However, with a small training corpus LSA showed better performance. Additionally they show that the best parameter setting depends on the task and the training corpus. Nevertheless, for skip-gram models trained in medium size corpora, with 50 dimensions, a window size of 15 and 10 negative samples seems to be a good parameter setting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2578608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2578608", "title": "Wrongful abortion", "text": "Wrongful abortion\n\nThe term wrongful abortion refers to an abortion that a pregnant woman undergoes as a result of negligent or malicious conduct by a physician or health care provider.\n\nThere are at least two archetypal cases of wrongful abortion:\n\nIn a case of the first type, a pregnant woman seeks medical counseling regarding the possible perils related to the continuance of her pregnancy. The adviser mistakenly maintains that the pregnancy is fraught with substantial risks for the woman, and she consequently decides to undergo an abortion. Later it is found that the information given by the adviser was wrong.\n\nIn a case of the second type, the woman seeks advice concerning the health and bodily integrity of her fetus (\"see\" genetic counseling, prenatal diagnosis), and decides to undergo an abortion after being told that the fetus is deformed or disabled. Here, too, it is eventually realized that the information was wrong.\n\n\"Wrongful abortion\" is comparable to other types of birth-related malpractice. One category of birth-related malpractice consists of cases in which negligence by the defendant resulted in the birth of a healthy yet unwanted child. The negligence may manifest itself in the manufacture, provision, or installation of contraceptives; in the performance of vasectomy or tubal ligation; or in the carrying out of an abortion. These cases are usually labeled \"wrongful pregnancy\" (or \"wrongful conception\" in appropriate cases). In a way, they represent a mirror image of wrongful abortion cases, although they are not exact reflections. In cases of wrongful pregnancy, the doctor's negligence makes the fulfillment of the parents’ will impossible, while in wrongful abortion cases the doctor's negligence instigates, but does not necessitate, a decision that turns out to be inconsistent with such will.\n\nAnother category of birth-related malpractice, more closely related to wrongful abortion, consists of cases in which a woman seeks medical advice regarding the health of her fetus, and decides to conceive or to continue her pregnancy once the adviser maintains that the fetus will not be born with congenital disabilities, a statement that is later found to be incorrect. The parents’ cause of action for their resulting losses is labeled \"wrongful birth,\" while the infant’s cause of action for their own losses is termed \"wrongful life.\" Wrongful birth is a more accurate mirror image of wrongful abortion. The former deals with the non-prevention of the birth of an unwanted child, whereas the latter deals with the prevention of the birth of a wanted child. In both cases the defendant’s negligence does not make the fulfillment of the parent’s will physically impossible, but instigates a decision that turns out to be inconsistent with such will.\n\n\n"}
