{"id": "28019269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28019269", "title": "A Small Act", "text": "A Small Act\n\nA Small Act is a documentary film produced by Harambee Media and HBO and directed by Jennifer Arnold. The documentary chronicles Chris Mburu's search for his benefactor, whose sponsorship allowed him to continue secondary school in Kenya. He would go on to earn degrees from the University of Nairobi and Harvard Law School.\n\nChris Mburu is a United Nations human rights advocate. As a child in Kenya, he was a good student, but would not have been able to enter secondary school, as only Primary School is free of cost in Kenya. Due to his outstanding grades, Chris was selected for a direct scholarship, provided to him by a Swedish woman named Hilde Back, who had fled Nazi Germany because of her Jewish heritage.\n\nIn the present day, Mburu has decided to create a scholarship program of his own, and names it after his former benefactor, Hilde Back. In Kenya, Three gifted students, Kimani, Ruth, and Caroline are vying for a scholarship that may be their only chance to continue school. Kimani, Ruth and Caroline take the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education Test, a nationwide standard that will determine their eligibility for Mburu's scholarship program. However, the violence and mayhem of the 2007–2008 Kenyan crisis may jeopardize the students' dreams.\n\nDue to a lack of students meeting the predetermined threshold on the tests, Kimani is given a scholarship. Unfortunately, Ruth and Caroline do not receive scholarships, but it is revealed in the closing credits that they have been sponsored to continue schooling by the documentary film crew.\n\nThe film premiered at Sundance Film Festival and went on to win the Humanitas Prize for Documentary, a NAMIC Vision Award and was nominated for the Best Documentary Emmy Award.\n\nThe rippling effect theory has never been easily proven, than in this particular story. The \"drop\" in the \"ocean\" literally formed waves across the vast ocean. From Sweden to Kenya.\n\n"}
{"id": "12790141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12790141", "title": "Adobe Certified Expert", "text": "Adobe Certified Expert\n\nAn Adobe Certified Expert (ACE) is a person who has demonstrated proficiency with Adobe Systems software products by passing one or more product-specific proficiency exams set by Adobe.\n\nAdobe currently sets one levels of proficiency of Single product certification (i.e. Photoshop CS5).\n\nin the past, Adobe has also set other levels of proficiency such as:\n\n\nRecommended preparation for ACE exams is the \"Classroom in a Book\" series of self-paced training workbooks.\n\n"}
{"id": "17383124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17383124", "title": "Al Rasheed University College", "text": "Al Rasheed University College\n\nAl Rasheed University College is a private Iraqi university established in Baghdad, Iraq.\n\n\nwww.alrasheedcol.edu.iq\n"}
{"id": "35936177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35936177", "title": "Asian Academy of Aeronautics", "text": "Asian Academy of Aeronautics\n\nThe Asian Academy of Aeronautics (AAA) is located at Gan International Airport, Addu Atoll, Maldives.\n\nThe Asian Academy of Aeronautics was founded in 2008 in Sri Lanka and opened its doors in 2010 as the first flight school to operate in Maldives. AAA is accredited by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the Maldivian Civil Aviation Department. AAA provides flight training for professional pilots. \n\nBefore AAA opened, Maldivian flight training was conducted overseas, mostly in the United States. \n\nGraduates of AAA receive a JAA-compliant license which is recognized by ICAO member countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1106551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106551", "title": "Australian Education Union", "text": "Australian Education Union\n\nThe Australian Education Union (AEU) is an Australian trade union, founded in 1984 as the Australian Teachers Union, which is registered with Fair Work Australia as an employee group, and is affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The AEU has a membership of over 188,000 educators who work in public schools, colleges, early childhood and vocational settings in all states and territories of Australia. Members include teachers and allied educational staff, principals and administrators mainly in government school and TAFE systems. Teachers working in the private schools system are covered by the Independent Education Union of Australia (IEU). In some states the AEU shares coverage of some members with the National Tertiary Education Union, Community and Public Sector Union and LHMU. Through the Federation of Education Unions, the AEU works closely with the two other Federal unions which cover educators in non-government schools and universities. The AEU is also internationally affiliated to the Education International, which the AEU claims is \"the largest non-government organisation in the world.\"\n\nThe Federal Office sees its core business as, \"the maintenance of comprehensive industrial protection and representation through industrial awards and agreements in all industrial tribunals in Australia. This involves industrial research, negotiation and advocacy over a wide range of matters including salaries and teaching and learning conditions.\"\n\nIn the 19th century the Colonial governments, which would later form the Commonwealth of Australia as states, established a variety of state schools. These schools were both demanded by the Australian trade union and labour movement, for the free education of the working class, and also used as a way to control the education and free time of the children of the Australian working class. Schools systems were highly stratified, with most children only receiving infants or primary education. Selection for Technical or Academic high school was highly competitive, and biased towards the children of agriculturalists, industrialists, business owners and professionals. Teachers were low-paid government employees and controlled by a series of moral codes that restricted their professional, personal and sexual conduct. Teachers were primarily educated in Technical colleges, fully funded by the governments, and indentured to Government employment in rural or remote districts for a long period. Buildings and teaching materials were notoriously bad, and often resulted in injuries to teachers or children. University educated teachers were a rarity, and tended to go into the private schools system.\n\nThe private school system itself was split between two main groups: a British-style system of schools for the elite, and a massively underfunded Catholic church-run system. The Catholic education system usually shared the poor working and teaching conditions of the state schools.\n\nDuring the 1950s teachers in the state school system became more unionised and better organised. These women and men had received free University education on the condition that they teach in the state school system, or had received University training as a result of their status as Second World War veterans and had chosen to teach. These teachers, and those following them, campaigned to increase teacher's salaries, to transform the structure of Australian education, and to improve the curriculum.\n\nThis militancy achieved its peak in the 1970s when teachers won salaries equivalent to state parliament backbenchers, a massive and systemic initiative for building improvements, and massive curriculum reform.\n\nThe Australian Teachers Union was established in 1984, and following a series of union mergers with the ACT Teachers' Federation, the Northern Territory Teachers' Federation, the South Australian Institute of Teachers and the Australian Teachers' Federation, changed its name to the Australian Education Union in 1993.\n\nThe AEU has a designated Indigenous position on its Federal Executive, an Indigenous observer position on the AEU TAFE Executive, and runs an annual seminar on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Education.\n\nIn 2010, the AEU made a submission (authorised by Angelo Gavrielatos, AEU Federal President) to the Australian Government's draft Indigenous Education Action Plan 2010–2014. The submission included 40 recommendations on improving Indigenous education, and stated: \"The realistic timeframe that should be considered to achieve outcomes for Indigenous people equal to the rest of the community is to focus on the outcomes that should be expected for the children to be born in 20 to 25 years from today\".\n\n\nSpaull, Andrew: Australian Education Review No.45: The Australian Education Union. Melbourne, ACER Press, 2000\n\n"}
{"id": "36746396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36746396", "title": "Bernard Price Memorial Lecture", "text": "Bernard Price Memorial Lecture\n\nThe Bernard Price Memorial Lecture is the premier annual lecture of the South African Institute of Electrical Engineers. It is of general scientific or engineering interest and is given by an invited guest, often from overseas, at several of the major centres on South Africa. The main lecture and accompanying dinner are usually held at the University of Witwatersrand and it is also presented in the space of one week at other centres, typically Cape Town, Durban, East London and Port Elizabeth.\n\nThe Lecture is named in memory of the eminent electrical engineer Bernard Price. The first Lecture was held in 1951 and it has occurred as an annual event ever since.\n\n1951 Basil Schonland\n\n1952 A M Jacobs\n\n1953 H J Van Eck\n\n1954 J M Meek\n\n1955 Frank Nabarro\n\n1956 A L Hales\n\n1957 P G Game\n\n1958 Colin Cherry\n\n1959 Thomas Allibone\n\n1960 M G Say\n\n1961 Willis Jackson\n\n1963 W R Stevens\n\n1964 William Pickering\n\n1965 G H Rawcliffe\n\n1966 Harold Bishop\n\n1967 Eric Eastwood\n\n1968 F J Lane\n\n1969 A H Reeves\n\n1970 Andrew R Cooper\n\n1971 Herbert Haslegrave\n\n1972 W J Bray\n\n1973 R Noser\n\n1974 D Kind\n\n1975 L Kirchmayer\n\n1976 S Jones\n\n1977 J Johnson\n\n1978 T G E Cockbain\n\n1979 A R Hileman\n\n1980 James Redmond\n\n1981 L M Muntzing\n\n1982 K F Raby\n\n1983 R Isermann\n\n1984 M N John\n\n1985 J W L de Villiers\n\n1986 Derek Roberts\n\n1987 Wolfram Boeck\n\n1988 Karl Gehring\n\n1989 Leonard Sagan\n\n1990 GKF Heyner\n\n1991 P S Blythin\n\n1992 P M Neches\n\n1993 P Radley\n\n1994 P R Rosen\n\n1995 F P Sioshansi\n\n1996 J Taylor\n\n1997 M Chamia\n\n1998 C Gellings\n\n1999 M W Kennedy\n\n2000 John Midwinter\n\n2001 Pragasen Pillay\n\n2002 Polina Bayvel\n\n2003 Case Rijsdijk\n\n2004 Frank Larkins\n\n2005 Igor Aleksander\n\n2006 Kevin Warwick\n\n2007 Skip Hatfield\n\n2008 Sami Solanki\n\n2009 William Gruver\n\n2010 Glenn Ricart\n\n2011 Philippe Paelinck\n\n2012 Nick Frydas\n\n2013 Vint Cerf\n\n2014 Ian Jandrell\n\n2015 Saurabh Sinha\n\n2016 Tshilidzi Marwala \n\n2017 Fulufhelo Nelwamondo \n\n2018 Ian Craig \n"}
{"id": "52953483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52953483", "title": "Bess Bolden Walcott", "text": "Bess Bolden Walcott\n\nBess Bolden Walcott (1886-1988) was an African American educator, librarian, museum curator and activist who helped establish the historical significance of the Tuskegee University. Recruited by Booker T. Washington to help him coordinate his library and teach science, she remained at the institute until 1962, but continued her service into the 1970s. Throughout her fifty-four year career at Tuskegee, she organized Washington's library, taught science and English at the institute, served as founder and editor of two of the major campus publications, directed public relations, established the Red Cross chapter, curated the George Washington Carver collection and museum and assisted in Tuskegee being placed on the National Register of Historic Places. \n\nIn addition to her work at the school, Walcott was an active suffragist and member of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, serving in the early 1960s as the national vice president of the organization. Walcott was recognized for her contributions to the state of Alabama in 2003, when she was inducted into the Alabama Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nBessie Adeline Bolden was born on November 4, 1886 in Xenia, Ohio to Fannie A. (née Bizzell) and William P. Bolden. Around 1900, the family moved to Painesville in Lake County. In June, 1908, Bolden graduated from Oberlin College and secured employment at Tuskeegee Institute.\n\nBolden began her career as a science teacher at Tuskeegee and helped Booker T. Washington organize his library. In 1911, she married William Holbrook Walcott, who was also a professor at the Institute. In 1918, she began teaching English at the high school of the Institute. That same year, she pushed for the charter for a Red Cross chapter at Tuskegee. It would be the first black chapter granted in the United States. While Walcott was not the chairman, as executive director she was the driving force behind the organization. The initial chairman was Robert Russa Moton and the vice presidency was shared by Moton's wife Jennie and Booker T. Washington′s wife, Margaret. Jennie, Margaret and Walcott also were members of the Tuskegee Woman's Club. The club was active in the suffrage movement and when women earned the right to vote, Walcott and three friends immediately went to register to vote. \n\nWalcott's Red Cross work kept her extremely busy, assisting in the war effort as well as the 1918 flu pandemic. In 1931, Walcott transferred to the principal's office, where she directed the school’s press service and worked with newspaper publicity. She also founded and edited two of the largest campus publications, the \"Tuskegee Messenger\" and \"Service\". During the Great Depression, Walcott led the Red Cross chapter's effort to distribute food and goods to poverty-stricken black farm families with grant funds secured from the national chapter. In 1936, she chaired the 40th anniversary celebration committee in honor of George Washington Carver's work at Tuskegee. \n\nIn 1941, during World War II, Walcott became the first African American to serve as an Acting Field Director for the Red Cross. Between 1942 and 1946, she served as the Public Relations Director of Tuskegee and much of her work focused on chronicling the development and reputation of the Tuskegee Airmen. To promote the war effort, Walcott traveled extensively and sold war bonds. In 1946, she was reappointed as the Acting Field Director, serving until 1947. Her duties in the post required that she oversee aid to returning veterans and assist with training of Red Cross volunteers. During the same period, she joined the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF), along with other noted African American women leaders like, Sadie Sawyer Hughley, Shirley Chisholm, Coretta Scott King, and many others.\n\nIn 1947, Walcott and her husband divorced, after having had four children. She served as the curator of The George Washington Carver Museum between 1951 and 1962, when she retired from Tuskegee. In 1962, Walcott was elected as the national vice president of WILPF and went as the American delegate to the 15th Triennial Congress held in San Francisco. She also participated in lectures for WILPF, speaking at events on Civil Rights, such as the conference held in Estes Park, Colorado in 1963, where she presented a lecture \"Next Steps Toward Integration, North and South\". \n\nBetween 1964 and 1965, Walcott traveled to Liberia, acting as a consultant for the proposed . William Tubman, President of Liberia and namesake of the center, honored her as a knight of the Humane Order of African Redemption. At Tuskegee, she meticulously gathered and conserved artistic and historic materials created by Carver, including his correspondence. Her preservation efforts documented the pivotal role Tuskegee played in both the state and national history, preparing the path for the Tuskegee Institute’s designation as a National Historic Landmark in 1965. Walcott's work as a curator of the museum led to its becoming a National Park Service site and in the 1970s, she assisted the Park Service in the restoration of Booker T. Washington′s home, The Oaks. \n\nWalcott died on April 18, 1988 in Tuskegee, Macon County, Alabama. In 2003, she was inducted into the Alabama Women's Hall of Fame for her contributions in the state and her profession. \n\n"}
{"id": "24356015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24356015", "title": "Campaign for Real Education", "text": "Campaign for Real Education\n\nThe Campaign for Real Education is a right-wing pressure group and non-profit organisation in the United Kingdom that advocates for traditional education, greater parental choice in schooling, and less state regulation of subjects that children study.\n\nThe CRE was established in 1987 by a group of 14 parents and teachers, although it was effectively a one-man organisation led by Nick Seaton, who ran it from a bedroom in his home near York. It gained national attention after intervening in a dispute at Lewes Priory School over whether pupils should sit O Levels or GCSEs. Two teachers that pressed for students to sit the O Level were sacked, with one of them, Chris McGovern, later becoming a headteacher in the independent sector and the CRE's chairman.\n\nThe group campaigns to \"press for higher standards and more parental choice in state education,\" and supports grammar schools. Among its concerns are truancy, low educational and behavioural standards, mismanagement of school funding, and what it describes as \"faddish\" teaching methods such as child-centred learning. It opposes the teaching of sociology and politics. It has been critical of anti-racism and anti-sexism campaigns, though chairman Chris McGovern has stated that \"children should be taught to have respect for their peers, whatever their background or colour\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18479096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18479096", "title": "Clore Leadership Programme", "text": "Clore Leadership Programme\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme is the first initiative of its kind in the UK aimed at developing and strengthening leadership across the cultural and creative sectors. The Programme was initiated in 2003 by the Clore Duffield Foundation and is sustained by a partnership between private philanthropy and public funding. The organisation invests in individuals, drawing on their creative potential to raising the game in the arts and creative sectors.\n\nThe Programme awards its flagship Clore Fellowships annually to exceptional individuals drawn from across the UK and beyond, and runs a choice of programmes tailored to the leadership needs of arts professionals at different stages of their career. The participants are drawn from a range of specialisms including the visual and performing arts, film and digital media, libraries, museums, archives and heritage, and cultural policy. In the last 10 years, over 250 fellowships have been awarded and nearly 1000 leaders have attended the Short Courses, enabling the participants to form a well-networked and connected arts leadership sector. Graduates of the scheme dot the salient points of the cultural landscape.\n\nThe Programme has inspired other initiatives in the UK and beyond, in particular the Clore Social Leadership Programme.\n\nInitiated by the Clore Duffield Foundation, and sustained by the Foundation's generous support, the Programme is the UK's first cross-disciplinary leadership programme for the cultural and creative sector. It was established as an independent organisation in 2004, after Dame Vivien Duffield had instigated research into the need for leadership training in the cultural programme. That research discovered that leadership development was often a question of accident rather than design, and that – without getting in the way of serendipity – it was time to put some of the design in place.\n\nInspired by the vision of its Founding Director Chris Smith, the Programme focused initially on the Fellowship Programme, aimed at shaping creative leaders through in-depth learning, and tailored as far as possible to the needs, aspirations and circumstances of between 20 and 30 individuals a year. The structure of the Fellowship programme is based on recommendations which were made to the Clore Duffield Foundation by John Holden and Robert Hewison, (see their report, and the Executive Summary). The course is unique outside the US, and includes workshops and residential courses, an extended placement, individually-selected training, mentoring and coaching, as well as opportunities for research and the development of skills.\n\nSince it was first established, the Clore Leadership Programme has been a pioneer in leadership development, a source of expert advice and an inspirational example for other initiatives in the UK and beyond, including the Clore Social Leadership Programme.\n\nDevelopments in the Programme since 2004 have included:\n\n• Intensive fortnight-long residential Short Courses\n\n• A Board Development programme, to strengthen governance in the cultural sector\n\n• The extension of the Fellowships to a small number of international participants\n\n• One- and two-day follow-up courses (Clore Plus)\n\n• An association with the University of Hong Kong to create Asia’s first Advanced Cultural Leadership Programme \n• One-week courses for Emerging Leaders\n\n• The creation of consortia of large-scale national cultural organisations, to support the Fellowship programme\n\n• The introduction of leadership development days, run in partnership with other organisations\n\nThe founding Director of the Clore Leadership Programme was Chris Smith, who from 1997–2001 had been Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. In July 2008 he stepped down and was succeeded as Director by Sue Hoyle. The current Chair is Sandy Nairne, former Director of the National Portrait Gallery.\n\nFrom freelancers, entrepreneurs to heads of established institutions, the Clore Leadership Programme nurtures dynamic and diverse leaders. Each year, the Programme awards fellowships and designs programmes tailored to the varied leadership needs of arts professionals at different stages of their career. These include awarding the Clore Fellowship (annually), and running four residential Short Courses (each runs for a fortnight), an Emerging Leaders’ Course (a week’s residential programme) and a number of Clore Plus days (follow-up courses for those who have been through the various programmes at Clore). The Programme also works in partnership with others to deliver leadership development days.\n\nThe flagship Clore Fellowship is offered to arts and creative industries’ practitioners drawn primarily from the UK. The Fellowship spans a year of intense activity, and includes residential courses, group workshops, projects, and a customised programme of personal and professional development. Each Fellow embarks on a programme of tuition, research, training and secondment, tailored to their specific cultural sector, interests and aspirations. One of the main features that distinguishes Clore from other leadership programmes is the cross-cultural element. People doing the programme are drawn from the arts and culture sector in its widest sense, and Fellows are seconded to other cultural organisations rather than other libraries or organizations similar to their own.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme offers a number of International Fellowships to exceptional individuals from prioritised countries outside the UK. These include Chevening Scholarships on the Clore Leadership Programme funded by the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office in countries such as India, China, Jordan and Egypt, and the Hong Kong Scholarships on the Clore Leadership Programme funded by the Home Affairs Bureau of the Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.\n\nThe Clore Duffield Foundation supports the core costs of the Fellowship programme. Individual fellowships are supported by a range of public funders, philanthropic foundations, Consortia partners and international partners, and are awarded to 25 and individual participants every year. The Programme also occasionally accepts self-funded Fellowships.\n\nShort Courses offer numerous opportunities every year for ambitious and creative individuals to undergo a two-week intensive residential training course structured to deliver essential knowledge and skills required by cultural leaders today. The Short Course Programme is supported by Arts Council England, through a three-year commissioned grant to develop resilient leadership.\n\nThe Emerging Leaders Programme is a 5-day residential course aimed at people in the early stages of their career. This Programme is funded by Arts Council England through a commissioned grant to develop resilient leadership.\n\nThe work of the Clore Leadership Programme would not have been possible without the extensive support it receives from its funding partners drawn from the public, private and cultural sectors. The principal funders of the Programme are the Clore Duffield Foundation and Arts Council England. The Programme is also supported by an mix of International Funders, Consortia Partners and Funders from UK and Ireland. Aside from these bodies, the Clore Leadership Programme has been given in-kind support by a range of partners drawn from the cultural and educational sectors, including international government bodies such as the European Commission.\n\nFunders are governmental and cultural bodies that generously contribute to the International Fellowships. These include the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Chevening Scholarships), the Hong Kong Arts Development Council and the National Art Gallery, Singapore.\n\nConsortia Partners consist of 17 major cultural institutions that support the leadership development of exceptional individuals from within their organisations. These include Heritage, Museums, Archives, Performing Arts and Theatre sectors, and National Archives Institutions.\n\nEnglish Heritage, Heritage Lottery Fund and National Trust\n\nBritish Museum, Imperial War Museum and Victoria & Albert Museum\n\nNational Archives, National Archives of Scotland and Public Record Office of Northern Ireland\n\nSouthbank Centre, National Theatre and Royal Opera House\n\nAmbassador Theatre Group, Cameron Mackintosh Ltd. and Royal Shakespeare Company\n\nNational Archives, British Library and London Metropolitan Archives\n\nThe funders from the UK and Ireland are the principal funders – the Clore Duffield Foundation and Arts Council England – and all other funders in the region that aren't Consortium partners or International Funders. These include Arts Council of Wales, Arts Council Ireland, Creative Scotland, Arts and Humanities Research Council, Paul Hamlyn Foundation, Wellcome Trust, Gatsby Charitable Foundation, Linbury Trust.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme receives in-kind support from a range of partners drawn from the cultural, educational and public sectors, who provide discounted training, workshops, hosting visits, and even honorary Fellowships. This eclectic support group includes the Royal Society for the Arts, Ashridge Business School, [Common Purpose], Cranfield University School of Management, the European Commission, University of Hong Kong, Henley Business School, Windsor Leadership Trust and Wolff Olins.\n\nIn previous years, the Clore Leadership Programme has been funded by the following: Advantage West Midlands, Arts Council of Northern Ireland, Balli Group plc, British Council, Catherine Cookson Charitable Trust, Creative and Cultural Skills, Creative Partnerships, Culture East Midlands, Culture North West, Cultural Leadership Programme, Dancers’ Career Development, Department for Culture, Media and Sport, East of England Development Agency, East of England Regional Assembly, East Midlands Development Agency, England’s Northwest (NWDA), Garfield Weston Foundation, Getty Foundation, Hong Kong Academy of the Performing Arts, King’s Fund, The Laser Foundation, Living East, London Development Agency, Goethe Institute (Max Mueller Bhavan), The Mercers’ Company, MLA, National Assembly of Wales, Nesta, Northern Rock Foundation, Paul Lee, Renaissance North West, Screen East, SEEDA, Sing Up, Skillset, Tate, UK Film Council, Yorkshire Culture, Yorkshire Forward, Youth Music. Self funded Fellowships: Mark Dusseault and Ferenc Csák.\n\nThe Clore Fellows and course participants have gone from strength to strength, steering new projects, establishing innovative arts organisations, enabling higher growth and assuming key leadership positions in the arts sectors all over the world. The results have been extraordinarily successful — Clore graduates are now in top jobs at the likes of the Royal Academy and the Arts Council. Innumerable cultural leaders from the UK and abroad have walked through its doors and on to better jobs, including Gavin Reid, previously a trumpet player, who since undertaking the programme is now Director of the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra. The programme is rooted in the belief that organisations which deliberately foster leadership and support their future leaders, do better.\n\nOther luminaries include Axel Rüger, formerly Curator of Dutch Paintings for the National Gallery, who has made the leap to Director of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam while Moira Sinclair, previously Director of Vital Arts, an arts and health initiative, is now Executive Director, Arts Council London. It is predicted that their expertise will play a major role in helping the arts weather the stormy years ahead.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme draws on the creative potential of leaders to raise the game in the arts and creative sectors. The idea behind initiating the Programme was to transform the cultural sector as a whole through the actions of emerging leaders and the work they do, both individually and collaboratively. As Nick Merriman, Director, Manchester Museum, University of Manchester, said: “It (Clore Leadership Programme) has helped everyone take investment in leadership much more seriously and to think realistically about succession planning.” Alongside leadership development, the Programme has also had a positive impact on the sustainability of the entire sector and is seen to have been a key player in “a silent revolution in the arts in Britain, where they are now incomparably better managed than they’ve ever been before.” “Thirty years ago, when faced with severe cuts, the sector almost collapsed. This is not the case now and that reflects the quality of the leadership we have. Clore has been a key part of that,\" said Mark Taylor, Director of the Museums Association.\n\nThe Clore Leadership Programme has not only succeeded in creating a cadre of creative and cultural leaders, but has stimulated investment in leadership on the part of governments, agencies, foundations and charities. The Programme has inspired other initiatives in the UK and beyond, including the Clore Social Leadership Programme for leaders from the social sector, Asia’s first Advanced Cultural Leadership Programme in Hong Kong, and a capacity-building course for arts managers in South Asia (ARThink South Asia Fellowship) created by a graduate of the Clore Programme.\n\n2014: Survey on Leadership Development: Commissioned by Clore Leadership Programme and Arts Council England; produced by Trends Business Research (TBR). A full copy of the report is here.\n\n2002: Task Force Report: An investment in the rising generation of cultural leaders is necessary and timely. Commissioned by Clore Duffield Foundation. Produced by John Holden and Robert Hewison\n\n\n"}
{"id": "194053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194053", "title": "Computer-assisted language learning", "text": "Computer-assisted language learning\n\nComputer-assisted language learning (CALL), British, or Computer-Aided Instruction (CAI)/Computer-Aided Language Instruction (CALI), American, is briefly defined in a seminal work by Levy (1997: p. 1) as \"the search for and study of applications of the computer in language teaching and learning\". CALL embraces a wide range of information and communications technology applications and approaches to teaching and learning foreign languages, from the \"traditional\" drill-and-practice programs that characterised CALL in the 1960s and 1970s to more recent manifestations of CALL, e.g. as used in a virtual learning environment and Web-based distance learning. It also extends to the use of corpora and concordancers, interactive whiteboards, Computer-mediated communication (CMC), language learning in virtual worlds, and mobile-assisted language learning (MALL).\n\nThe term CALI (computer-assisted language instruction) was in use before CALL, reflecting its origins as a subset of the general term CAI (computer-assisted instruction). CALI fell out of favour among language teachers, however, as it appeared to imply a teacher-centred approach (instructional), whereas language teachers are more inclined to prefer a student-centred approach, focusing on learning rather than instruction. CALL began to replace CALI in the early 1980s (Davies & Higgins 1982: p. 3) and it is now incorporated into the names of the growing number of professional associations worldwide.\n\nAn alternative term, technology-enhanced language learning (TELL), also emerged around the early 1990s: e.g. the TELL Consortium project, University of Hull.\n\nThe current philosophy of CALL puts a strong emphasis on student-centred materials that allow learners to work on their own. Such materials may be structured or unstructured, but they normally embody two important features: interactive learning and individualised learning. CALL is essentially a tool that helps teachers to facilitate the language learning process. It can be used to reinforce what has already been learned in the classroom or as a remedial tool to help learners who require additional support.\n\nThe design of CALL materials generally takes into consideration principles of language pedagogy and methodology, which may be derived from different learning theories (e.g. behaviourist, cognitive, constructivist) and second-language learning theories such as Stephen Krashen's monitor hypothesis.\n\nA combination of face-to-face teaching and CALL is usually referred to as blended learning. Blended learning is designed to increase learning potential and is more commonly found than pure CALL (Pegrum 2009: p. 27).\n\nSee Davies \"et al.\" (2011: Section 1.1, \"What is CALL?\"). See also Levy & Hubbard (2005), who raise the question \"Why call CALL \"CALL\"?\"\n\nCALL dates back to the 1960s, when it was first introduced on university mainframe computers. The PLATO project, initiated at the University of Illinois in 1960, is an important landmark in the early development of CALL (Marty 1981). The advent of the microcomputer in the late 1970s brought computing within the range of a wider audience, resulting in a boom in the development of CALL programs and a flurry of publications of books on CALL in the early 1980s.\n\nDozens of CALL programs are currently available on the internet, at prices ranging from free to expensive, and other programs are available only through university language courses.\n\nThere have been several attempts to document the history of CALL. Sanders (1995) covers the period from the mid-1960s to the mid-1990s, focusing on CALL in North America. Delcloque (2000) documents the history of CALL worldwide, from its beginnings in the 1960s to the dawning of the new millennium. Davies (2005) takes a look back at CALL's past and attempts to predict where it is going. Hubbard (2009) offers a compilation of 74 key articles and book excerpts, originally published in the years 1988-2007, that give a comprehensive overview of the wide range of leading ideas and research results that have exerted an influence on the development of CALL or that show promise in doing so in the future. A published review of Hubbard's collection can be found in \"Language Learning & Technology\" 14, 3 (2010).\n\nButler-Pascoe (2011) looks at the history of CALL from a different point of view, namely the evolution of CALL in the dual fields of educational technology and second/foreign language acquisition and the paradigm shifts experienced along the way.\n\nSee also Davies et al. (2011: Section 2, \"History of CALL\").\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, several attempts were made to establish a CALL typology. A wide range of different types of CALL programs was identified by Davies & Higgins (1985), Jones & Fortescue (1987), Hardisty & Windeatt (1989) and Levy (1997: pp. 118ff.). These included gap-filling and Cloze programs, multiple-choice programs, free-format (text-entry) programs, adventures and simulations, action mazes, sentence-reordering programs, exploratory programs—and \"total Cloze\", a type of program in which the learner has to reconstruct a whole text. Most of these early programs still exist in modernised versions.\n\nSince the 1990s, it has become increasingly difficult to categorise CALL as it now extends to the use of blogs, wikis, social networking, podcasting, Web 2.0 applications, language learning in virtual worlds and interactive whiteboards (Davies et al. 2010: Section 3.7).\n\nWarschauer (1996) and Warschauer & Healey (1998) took a different approach. Rather than focusing on the typology of CALL, they identified three historical phases of CALL, classified according to their underlying pedagogical and methodological approaches:\n\n\nMost CALL programs in Warschauer & Healey's first phase, Behavioristic CALL (1960s to 1970s), consisted of drill-and-practice materials in which the computer presented a stimulus and the learner provided a response. At first, both could be done only through text. The computer would analyse students' input and give feedback, and more sophisticated programs would react to students' mistakes by branching to help screens and remedial activities. While such programs and their underlying pedagogy still exist today, behaviouristic approaches to language learning have been rejected by most language teachers, and the increasing sophistication of computer technology has led CALL to other possibilities.\n\nThe second phase described by Warschauer & Healey, Communicative CALL, is based on the communicative approach that became prominent in the late 1970s and 1980s (Underwood 1984). In the communicative approach the focus is on using the language rather than analysis of the language, and grammar is taught implicitly rather than explicitly. It also allows for originality and flexibility in student output of language. The communicative approach coincided with the arrival of the PC, which made computing much more widely available and resulted in a boom in the development of software for language learning. The first CALL software in this phase continued to provide skill practice but not in a drill format—for example: paced reading, text reconstruction and language games—but the computer remained the tutor. In this phase, computers provided context for students to use the language, such as asking for directions to a place, and programs not designed for language learning such as Sim City, \"Sleuth\" and Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego? were used for language learning. Criticisms of this approach include using the computer in an ad hoc and disconnected manner for more marginal aims rather than the central aims of language teaching.\n\nThe third phase of CALL described by Warschauer & Healey, Integrative CALL, starting from the 1990s, tried to address criticisms of the communicative approach by integrating the teaching of language skills into tasks or projects to provide direction and coherence. It also coincided with the development of multimedia technology (providing text, graphics, sound and animation) as well as Computer-mediated communication (CMC). CALL in this period saw a definitive shift from the use of the computer for drill and tutorial purposes (the computer as a finite, authoritative base for a specific task) to a medium for extending education beyond the classroom. Multimedia CALL started with interactive laser videodiscs such as \"Montevidisco\" (Schneider & Bennion 1984) and \"A la rencontre de Philippe\" (Fuerstenberg 1993), both of which were simulations of situations where the learner played a key role. These programs later were transferred to CD-ROMs, and new role-playing games (RPGs) such as \"Who is Oscar Lake?\" made their appearance in a range of different languages.\n\nIn a later publication Warschauer changed the name of the first phase of CALL from Behavioristic CALL to Structural CALL and also revised the dates of the three phases (Warschauer 2000):\n\n\nBax (2003) took issue with Warschauer & Haley (1998) and Warschauer (2000) and proposed these three phases:\n\n\nSee also Bax & Chambers (2006) and Bax (2011), in which the topic of \"normalisation\" is revisited.\n\nA basic use of CALL is in vocabulary acquisition using flashcards, which requires quite simple programs. Such programs often make use of spaced repetition, a technique whereby the learner is presented with the vocabulary items that need to be committed to memory at increasingly longer intervals until long-term retention is achieved. This has led to the development of a number of applications known as spaced repetition systems (SRS), including the generic Anki or SuperMemo package and programs such as BYKI and phase-6, which have been designed specifically for learners of foreign languages.\n\nAbove all, careful consideration must be given to pedagogy in designing CALL software, but publishers of CALL software tend to follow the latest trend, regardless of its desirability. Moreover, approaches to teaching foreign languages are constantly changing, dating back to grammar-translation, through the direct method, audio-lingualism and a variety of other approaches, to the more recent communicative approach and constructivism (Decoo 2001).\n\nDesigning and creating CALL software is an extremely demanding task, calling upon a range of skills. Major CALL development projects are usually managed by a team of people:\n\n\nCALL inherently supports learner autonomy, the final of the eight conditions that Egbert et al. (2007) cite as \"Conditions for Optimal Language Learning Environments\". Learner autonomy places the learner firmly in control so that he or she \"decides on learning goals\" (Egbert et al., 2007, p. 8).\n\nIt is all too easy when designing CALL software to take the comfortable route and produce a set of multiple-choice and gap-filling exercises, using a simple authoring tool (Bangs 2011), but CALL is much more than this; Stepp-Greany (2002), for example, describes the creation and management of an environment incorporating a constructivist and whole language philosophy. According to constructivist theory, learners are active participants in tasks in which they \"construct\" new knowledge derived from their prior experience. Learners also assume responsibility for their learning, and the teacher is a facilitator rather than a purveyor of knowledge. Whole language theory embraces constructivism and postulates that language learning moves from the whole to the part, rather than building sub-skills to lead towards the higher abilities of comprehension, speaking, and writing. It also emphasises that comprehending, speaking, reading, and writing skills are interrelated, reinforcing each other in complex ways. Language acquisition is, therefore, an active process in which the learner focuses on cues and meaning and makes intelligent guesses. Additional demands are placed upon teachers working in a technological environment incorporating constructivist and whole language theories. The development of teachers’ professional skills must include new pedagogical as well as technical and management skills. Regarding the issue of teacher facilitation in such an environment, the teacher has a key role to play, but there could be a conflict between the aim to create an atmosphere for learner independence and the teacher's natural feelings of responsibility. In order to avoid learners’ negative perceptions, Stepp-Greany points out that it is especially important for the teacher to continue to address their needs, especially those of low-ability learners.\n\nLanguage teachers have been avid users of technology for a very long time. Gramophone records were among the first technological aids to be used by language teachers in order to present students with recordings of native speakers’ voices, and broadcasts from foreign radio stations were used to make recordings on reel-to-reel tape recorders. Other examples of technological aids that have been used in the foreign language classroom include slide projectors, film-strip projectors, film projectors, videocassette recorders and DVD players. In the early 1960s, integrated courses (which were often described as multimedia courses) began to appear. Examples of such courses are \"Ecouter et Parler\" (consisting of a coursebook and tape recordings) and \"Deutsch durch die audiovisuelle Methode\" (consisting of an illustrated coursebook, tape recordings and a film-strip – based on the Structuro-Global Audio-Visual method).\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s standard microcomputers were incapable of producing sound and they had poor graphics capability. This represented a step backwards for language teachers, who by this time had become accustomed to using a range of different media in the foreign language classroom. The arrival of the multimedia computer in the early 1990s was therefore a major breakthrough as it enabled text, images, sound and video to be combined in one device and the integration of the four basic skills of listening, speaking, reading and writing (Davies 2011: Section 1).\n\nExamples of CALL programs for multimedia computers that were published on CD-ROM and DVD from the mid-1990s onwards are described by Davies (2010: Section 3). CALL programs are still being published on CD-ROM and DVD, but Web-based multimedia CALL has now virtually supplanted these media.\n\nFollowing the arrival of multimedia CALL, multimedia language centres began to appear in educational institutions. While multimedia facilities offer many opportunities for language learning with the integration of text, images, sound and video, these opportunities have often not been fully utilised. One of the main promises of CALL is the ability to individualise learning but, as with the language labs that were introduced into educational institutions in the 1960s and 1970s, the use of the facilities of multimedia centres has often devolved into rows of students all doing the same drills (Davies 2010: Section 3.1). There is therefore a danger that multimedia centres may go the same way as the language labs. Following a boom period in the 1970s, language labs went rapidly into decline. Davies (1997: p. 28) lays the blame mainly on the failure to train teachers to use language labs, both in terms of operation and in terms of developing new methodologies, but there were other factors such as poor reliability, lack of materials and a lack of good ideas.\n\nManaging a multimedia language centre requires not only staff who have a knowledge of foreign languages and language teaching methodology but also staff with technical know-how and budget management ability, as well as the ability to combine all these into creative ways of taking advantage of what the technology can offer. A centre manager usually needs assistants for technical support, for managing resources and even the tutoring of students. Multimedia centres lend themselves to self-study and potentially self-directed learning, but this is often misunderstood. The simple existence of a multimedia centre does not automatically lead to students learning independently. Significant investment of time is essential for materials development and creating an atmosphere conducive to self-study. Unfortunately, administrators often have the mistaken belief that buying hardware by itself will meet the needs of the centre, allocating 90% of its budget to hardware and virtually ignoring software and staff training needs (Davies et al. 2011: \"Foreword\"). Self-access language learning centres or independent learning centres have emerged partially independently and partially in response to these issues. In self-access learning, the focus is on developing learner autonomy through varying degrees of self-directed learning, as opposed to (or as a complement to) classroom learning. In many centres learners access materials and manage their learning independently, but they also have access to staff for help. Many self-access centres are heavy users of technology and an increasing number of them are now offering online self-access learning opportunities. Some centres have developed novel ways of supporting language learning outside the context of the language classroom (also called 'language support') by developing software to monitor students' self-directed learning and by offering online support from teachers. Centre managers and support staff may need to have new roles defined for them to support students’ efforts at self-directed learning: v. Mozzon-McPherson & Vismans (2001), who refer to a new job description, namely that of the \"language adviser\".\n\nThe emergence of the World Wide Web (now known simply as \"the Web\") in the early 1990s marked a significant change in the use of communications technology for all computer users. Email and other forms of electronic communication had been in existence for many years, but the launch of Mosaic, the first graphical Web browser, in 1993 brought about a radical change in the ways in which we communicate electronically. The launch of the Web in the public arena immediately began to attract the attention of language teachers. Many language teachers were already familiar with the concept of hypertext on stand-alone computers, which made it possible to set up non-sequential structured reading activities for language learners in which they could point to items of text or images on a page displayed on the computer screen and branch to any other pages, e.g. in a so-called \"stack\" as implemented in the HyperCard program on Apple Mac computers. The Web took this one stage further by creating a worldwide hypertext system that enabled the user to branch to different pages on computers anywhere in the world simply by pointing and clicking at a piece of text or an image. This opened up access to thousands of authentic foreign-language websites to teachers and students that could be used in a variety of ways. A problem that arose, however, was that this could lead to a good deal of time-wasting if Web browsing was used in an unstructured way (Davies 1997: pp. 42–43), and language teachers responded by developing more structured activities and online exercises (Leloup & Ponterio 2003). Davies (2010) lists over 500 websites, where links to online exercises can be found, along with links to online dictionaries and encyclopaedias, concordancers, translation aids and other miscellaneous resources of interest to the language teacher and learner.\n\nThe launch of the (free) \"Hot Potatoes\" (Holmes & Arneil) authoring tool, which was first demonstrated publicly at the EUROCALL 1998 conference, made it possible for language teachers to create their own online interactive exercises. Other useful tools are produced by the same authors.\n\nIn its early days the Web could not compete seriously with multimedia CALL on CD-ROM and DVD. Sound and video quality was often poor, and interaction was slow. But now the Web has caught up. Sound and video are of high quality and interaction has improved tremendously, although this does depend on sufficient bandwidth being available, which is not always the case, especially in remote rural areas and developing countries. One area in which CD-ROMs and DVDs are still superior is in the presentation of listen/respond/playback activities, although such activities on the Web are continually improving.\n\nSince the early 2000s there has been a boom in the development of so-called Web 2.0 applications. Contrary to popular opinion, Web 2.0 is not a new version of the Web, rather it implies a shift in emphasis from Web browsing, which is essentially a one-way process (from the Web to the end-user), to making use of Web applications in the same way as one uses applications on a desktop computer. It also implies more interaction and sharing. Walker, Davies & Hewer (2011: Section 2.1) list the following examples of Web 2.0 applications that language teachers are using:\n\nThere is no doubt that the Web has proved to be a main focus for language teachers, who are making increasingly imaginative use of its wide range of facilities: see Dudeney (2007) and Thomas (2008). Above all, the use of Web 2.0 tools calls for a careful reexamination of the role of the teacher in the classroom (Richardson 2006).\n\nCorpora have been used for many years as the basis of linguistic research and also for the compilation of dictionaries and reference works such as the Collins Cobuild series, published by HarperCollins. Tribble & Barlow (2001), Sinclair (2004) and McEnery & Wilson (2011) describe a variety of ways in which corpora can be used in language teaching.\n\nAn early reference to the use of electronic concordancers in language teaching can be found in Higgins & Johns (1984: pp. 88–94), and many examples of their practical use in the classroom are described by Lamy & Klarskov Mortensen (2010).\n\nIt was Tim Johns (1991), however, who raised the profile of the use of concordancers in the language classroom with his concept of Data-driven learning (DDL). DDL encourages learners to work out their own rules about the meaning of words and their usage by using a concordancer to locate examples in a corpus of authentic texts. It is also possible for the teacher to use a concordancer to find examples of authentic usage to demonstrate a point of grammar or typical collocations, and to generate exercises based on the examples found. Various types of concordancers and where they can be obtained are described by Lamy & Klarskov Mortensen (2011).\n\nRobb (2003) shows how it is possible to use Google as a concordancer, but he also points out a number of drawbacks, for instance there is no control over the educational level, nationality, or other characteristics of the creators of the texts that are found, and the presentation of the examples is not as easy to read as the output of a dedicated concordancer that places the key words (i.e. the search terms) in context.\n\nVirtual worlds date back to the adventure games and simulations of the 1970s, for example Colossal Cave Adventure, a text-only simulation in which the user communicated with the computer by typing commands at the keyboard. Language teachers discovered that it was possible to exploit these text-only programs by using them as the basis for discussion. Jones G. (1986) describes an experiment based on the Kingdom simulation, in which learners played roles as members of a council governing an imaginary kingdom. A single computer in the classroom was used to provide the stimulus for discussion, namely simulating events taking place in the kingdom: crop planting time, harvest time, unforeseen catastrophes, etc.\n\nThe early adventure games and simulations led on to multi-user variants, which were known as MUDs (Multi-user domains). Like their predecessors, MUDs were text-only, with the difference that they were available to a wider online audience. MUDs then led on to MOOs (Multi-user domains object-oriented), which language teachers were able to exploit for teaching foreign languages and intercultural understanding: see Donaldson & Kötter (1999) and (Shield 2003).\n\nThe next major breakthrough in the history of virtual worlds was the graphical user interface. Lucasfilm's Habitat (1986), was one of the first virtual worlds that was graphically based, albeit only in a two-dimensional environment. Each participant was represented by a visual avatar who could interact with other avatars using text chat.\n\nThree-dimensional virtual worlds such as Traveler and Active Worlds, both of which appeared in the 1990s, were the next important development. Traveler included the possibility of audio communication (but not text chat) between avatars who were represented as disembodied heads in a three-dimensional abstract landscape. Svensson (2003) describes the Virtual Wedding Project, in which advanced students of English made use of Active Worlds as an arena for constructivist learning.\n\nThe 3D world of Second Life was launched in 2003. Initially perceived as another role-playing game (RPG), it began to attract the interest of language teachers with the launch of the first of the series of SLanguages conferences in 2007. Walker, Davies & Hewer (2011: Section 14.2.1) and Molka-Danielsen & Deutschmann (2010) describe a number of experiments and projects that focus on language learning in Second Life. See also the Wikipedia article Virtual world language learning.\n\nTo what extent Second Life and other virtual worlds will become established as important tools for teachers of foreign languages remains to be seen. It has been argued by Dudeney (2010) in his \"That's Life\" blog that Second Life is \"too demanding and too unreliable for most educators\". The subsequent discussion shows that this view is shared by many teachers, but many others completely disagree.\n\nRegardless of the pros and cons of Second Life, language teachers’ interest in virtual worlds continues to grow. The joint EUROCALL/CALICO Virtual Worlds Special Interest Group was set up in 2009, and there are now many areas in Second Life that are dedicated to language learning and teaching, for example the commercial area for learners of English, which is managed by Language Lab, and free areas such as the region maintained by the Goethe-Institut and the EduNation Islands. There are also examples of simulations created specifically for language education, such as those produced by the EC-funded NIFLAR and AVALON projects. NIFLAR is implemented both in Second Life and in Opensim.\n\nHuman language technologies (HLT) comprise a number of areas of research and development that focus on the use of technology to facilitate communication in a multilingual information society. Human language technologies are areas of activity in departments of the European Commission that were formerly grouped under the heading language engineering (Gupta & Schulze 2011: Section 1.1).\n\nThe parts of HLT that is of greatest interest to the language teacher is natural language processing (NLP), especially parsing, as well as the areas of speech synthesis and speech recognition.\n\nSpeech synthesis has improved immeasurably in recent years. It is often used in electronic dictionaries to enable learners to find out how words are pronounced. At word level, speech synthesis is quite effective, the artificial voice often closely resembling a human voice. At phrase level and sentence level, however, there are often problems of intonation, resulting in speech production that sounds unnatural even though it may be intelligible. Speech synthesis as embodied in text to speech (TTS) applications is invaluable as a tool for unsighted or partially sighted people. Gupta & Schulze (2010: Section 4.1) list several examples of speech synthesis applications.\n\nSpeech recognition is less advanced than speech synthesis. It has been used in a number of CALL programs, in which it is usually described as automatic speech recognition (ASR). ASR is not easy to implement. Ehsani & Knodt (1998) summarise the core problem as follows:\n\n\"Complex cognitive processes account for the human ability to associate acoustic signals with meanings and intentions. For a computer, on the other hand, speech is essentially a series of digital values. However, despite these differences, the core problem of speech recognition is the same for both humans and machines: namely, of finding the best match between a given speech sound and its corresponding word string. Automatic speech recognition technology attempts to simulate and optimize this process computationally.\"\n\nPrograms embodying ASR normally provide a native speaker model that the learner is requested to imitate, but the matching process is not 100% reliable and may result in a learner's perfectly intelligible attempt to pronounce a word or phrase being rejected (Davies 2010: Section 3.4.6 and Section 3.4.7).\n\nParsing is used in a number of ways in CALL. Gupta & Schulze (2010: Section 5) describe how parsing may be used to analyse sentences, presenting the learner with a tree diagram that labels the constituent parts of speech of a sentence and shows the learner how the sentence is structured.\n\nParsing is also used in CALL programs to analyse the learner's input and diagnose errors. Davies (2002) writes:\n\n\"Discrete error analysis and feedback were a common feature of traditional CALL, and the more sophisticated programs would attempt to analyse the learner's response, pinpoint errors, and branch to help and remedial activities. ... Error analysis in CALL is, however, a matter of controversy. Practitioners who come into CALL via the disciplines of computational linguistics, e.g. Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Human Language Technologies (HLT), tend to be more optimistic about the potential of error analysis by computer than those who come into CALL via language teaching. [...] An alternative approach is the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques to parse the learner's response – so-called \"intelligent CALL\" (ICALL) – but there is a gulf between those who favour the use of AI to develop CALL programs (Matthews 1994) and, at the other extreme, those who perceive this approach as a threat to humanity (Last 1989:153)\".\n\nUnderwood (1989) and Heift & Schulze (2007) present a more positive picture of AI.\n\nResearch into speech synthesis, speech recognition and parsing and how these areas of NLP can be used in CALL are the main focus of the NLP Special Interest Group within the EUROCALL professional association and the ICALL Special Interest Group within the CALICO professional association. The EUROCALL NLP SIG also maintains a Ning.\n\nThe question of the impact of CALL in language learning and teaching has been raised at regular intervals ever since computers first appeared in educational institutions (Davies & Hewer 2011: Section 3). Recent large-scale impact studies include the study edited by Fitzpatrick & Davies (2003) and the EACEA (2009) study, both of which were produced for the European Commission.\n\nA distinction needs to be made between the impact and the effectiveness of CALL. Impact may be measured quantitatively and qualitatively in terms of the uptake and use of ICT in teaching foreign languages, issues of availability of hardware and software, budgetary considerations, Internet access, teachers’ and learners' attitudes to the use of CALL, changes in the ways in which languages are learnt and taught, and paradigm shifts in teachers’ and learners’ roles. Effectiveness, on the other hand, usually focuses on assessing to what extent ICT is a more effective way of teaching foreign languages compared to using traditional methods – and this is more problematic as so many variables come into play. Worldwide, the picture of the impact of CALL is extremely varied. Most developed nations work comfortably with the new technologies, but developing nations are often beset with problems of costs and broadband connectivity. Evidence on the effectiveness of CALL – as with the impact of CALL – is extremely varied and many research questions still need to be addressed and answered. Hubbard (2002) presents the results of a CALL research survey that was sent to 120 CALL professionals from around the world asking them to articulate a CALL research question they would like to see answered. Some of the questions have been answered but many more remain open. Leakey (2011) offers an overview of current and past research in CALL and proposes a comprehensive model for evaluating the effectiveness of CALL platforms, programs and pedagogy.\n\nA crucial issue is the extent to which the computer is perceived as taking over the teacher's role. Warschauer (1996: p. 6) perceived the computer as playing an \"intelligent\" role, and claimed that a computer program \"should ideally be able to understand a user's spoken input and evaluate it not just for correctness but also for appropriateness. It should be able to diagnose a student's problems with pronunciation, syntax, or usage and then intelligently decide among a range of options (e.g. repeating, paraphrasing, slowing down, correcting, or directing the student to background explanations).\" Jones C. (1986), on the other hand, rejected the idea of the computer being \"some kind of inferior teacher-substitute\" and proposed a methodology that focused more on what teachers could do with computer programs rather than what computer programs could do on their own: \"in other words, treating the computer as they would any other classroom aid\". Warschauer's high expectations in 1996 have still not been fulfilled, and currently there is an increasing tendency for teachers to go down the route proposed by Jones, making use of a variety of new tools such as corpora and concordancers, interactive whiteboards and applications for online communication.\n\nSince the advent of the Web there has been an explosion in online learning, but to what extent it is effective is open to criticism. Felix (2003) takes a critical look at popular myths attached to online learning from three perspectives, namely administrators, teachers and students. She concludes: \"That costs can be saved in this ambitious enterprise is clearly a myth, as are expectations of saving time or replacing staff with machines.\"\n\nAs for the effectiveness of CALL in promoting the four skills, Felix (2008) claims that there is \"enough data in CALL to suggest positive effects on spelling, reading and writing\", but more research is needed in order to determine its effectiveness in other areas, especially speaking online. She claims that students' perceptions of CALL are positive, but she qualifies this claim by stating that the technologies need to be stable and well supported, drawing attention to concerns that technical problems may interfere with the learning process. She also points out that older students may not feel comfortable with computers and younger students may not possess the necessary metaskills for coping effectively in the challenging new environments. Training in computer literacy for both students and teachers is essential, and time constraints may pose additional problems. In order to achieve meaningful results she recommends \"time-series analysis in which the same group of students is involved in experimental and control treatment for a certain amount of time and then switched – more than once if possible\".\n\nTypes of technology training in CALL for language teaching professionals certainly vary. Within second language teacher education programs, namely pre-service course work, we can find \"online courses along with face-to-face courses\", computer technology incorporated into a more general second language education course, \"technology workshops\",\"a series of courses offered throughout the teacher education programs, and even courses specifically designed for a CALL certificate and a CALL graduate degree\" The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has identified four levels of courses with only components, namely \"web-supplemented, web-dependent, mixed mod and fully online\".\n\nThere is a rapidly growing interest in resources about the use of technology to deliver CALL. Journals that have issues that \"deal with how teacher education programs help prepare language teachers to use technology in their own classrooms\" include \"Language Learning and Technology\" (2002), \"Innovations in Language Learning and Teaching\" (2009) and the TESOL international professional association's publication of technology standards for TESOL includes a chapter on preparation of teacher candidates in technology use, as well as the upgrading of teacher educators to be able to provide such instruction. Both CALICO and EUROCALL have special interest groups for teacher education in CALL.\n\nThe following professional associations are dedicated to the promulgation of research, development and practice relating to the use of new technologies in language learning and teaching. Most of them organise conferences and publish journals on CALL.\n\n\n\nHong, K. H. (2010) CALL teacher education as an impetus for 12 teachers in integrating technology. \"ReCALL\", 22 (1), 53-69. doi: 10.1017/s095834400999019X\n\nMurray, D. E. (2013) \"A Case for Online English Language Teacher Education\". The International Research Foundation for English Language Education. http://www.tirfonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/TIRF_OLTE_One-PageSpread_2013.pdf\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2741068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2741068", "title": "Declarative learning", "text": "Declarative learning\n\nDeclarative learning is acquiring information that one can speak about (contrast with motor learning). The capital of a state is a declarative piece of information, while knowing how to ride a bike is not. Episodic memory and semantic memory are a further division of declarative information.\n\nThere are two ways to learn a telephone number: memorize it using your declarative memory, or use it many times to create a habit. Habit learning is called procedural memory\n\nDeclarative memory uses your medial temporal lobe and enables you to recall the telephone number at will. Procedural memory activates the telephone number only when you are at the telephone, and uses your right-hemisphere's skill, pattern recognition.\n\nResearch indicates declarative and habit memory compete with each other during distraction. When in doubt, the brain chooses habit memory because it is automatic.\n\nSeveral researchers at the UCLA tested the hypothesis that distraction can change the way a task is learned. In their experiment, they played a series of high and low tones while asking subjects to do a simple probabilistic classification task. In the single task (ST) case, subjects only learned to predict the weather. In the dual task (DT) case, subjects were also asked to count the number of high pitched tones. The ability to use the learned knowledge was found to be about the same in either case. However, subjects were significantly better at identifying cue-associations (a test of declarative knowledge) when trained under ST rather than DT conditions. Furthermore, fMRI showed activity in the hippocampus was associated with performance under ST, but not DT conditions, whereas activity in the putamen showed the opposite correlation. The authors concluded that while distraction may not decrease the level of learning, it can result in a reduced ability to flexibly use that knowledge\n\nDeclarative learning is an important skill that we use to acquire new information, such as in education. Declarative learning can be seen as what we know, for example we know that Paris is the capital of France.\n\nSleep deprivation and learning have continually been linked together. The common belief is that sleep deprivation can affect children when they are learning at school or in any daily task. However, different types of learning are processed differently and have different outcomes when a child is sleep deprived. A study conducted by Csabi, Benedk, Janacesk, Katona and Nemeth looked at the impairment of declarative and nondeclarative learning when a child is sleep deprived. Nondeclarative learning was measured by having children perform an Alternating Serial Reaction Time (ASRT) task. This task had a dog's head appear in four empty circles. Every time the dog's head appeared the child had to press the corresponding letter as quickly and correctly as possible. Declarative learning was measured by \"The War of the Ghosts\" test, which is a recall test where the children were told a short story consisting of thirty-six sentences and had to then recall it immediately after hearing it. The study showed that nondeclarative learning was preserved and not affected when sleep deprived children took the ASRT task. However, declarative learning greatly declined in the face of sleep-deprivation. Declarative Learning can be associated with tasks that require a greater amount of attention, such as learning in school. Therefore, the lack of sleep a child obtains can affect declarative learning and can affect how well a child learns during school overall.\n\nResearch focusing on children has also looked at different ways of utilizing declarative learning when it comes to memorizing tasks. Backhaus, Hoeckesfeld, Born, Hohagen, and Junghanns conducted a study to see if sleeping after a task enhances declarative learning in children. Children between the ages of nine and twelve were given a word association task consisting of forty related word pairs. The lists of words were repeated continuously until the child participating could recall at least twenty words out of the forty given. The child was allowed to go to sleep for the night and was tested for recall right after they had woken up. The child was then asked to go about their day and was tested for recall later during the day. The study showed that declarative learning, memory and retention significantly increased only after an interval of sleep that immediately followed learning. This research provides evidence of sleep in the role of declarative learning, sleep consolidation, as well as stresses the importance of sleep for declarative learning during childhood.\n\nDeclarative learning is not solely affected by sleeping but can also be affected by levels of stress as well as hormones. In a study conducted by Espin et al. stress, hormones and menstrual cycle phases in women, were tested for their effect on declarative learning in young adults. Participants were asked to participate in a Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) where they were asked to give a speech to a simulated committee about why they deserved the position for their dream job. If the participant did not finish their speech in five minutes the committee would then ask standardized questions the researchers had provided. After the speech the participant was asked to complete a five-minute arithmetic task. The TSST was set up to induce stress in the participants before they proceeded to the declarative learning task. For the Declarative Learning task the participants were asked to complete a Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Task (RAVLT), which has the participants look over a set of words and then asks them to recall as many as they can. The study showed that if women were not exposed to the TSST task before the RAVLT there was an increase of declarative learning and recall when compared to the men. However, when the participants were exposed to the TSST task before the RAVLT then declarative learning and recall were equal for both men and women. Women during the study that were menstruating and exposed to the TSST task showed lower levels of stress than women not menstruating, they also had an increase of declarative learning and recall when compared to men and women not menstruating \n. The study not only shows that sex hormones could reduce stress in women but also that stress can have a negative effect on declarative learning. This could affect the capability of students learning and passing their classes and also the ability to be able to complete tasks in the work place.\n\nSleep benefits declarative learning across a range of tasks for children and young adults, however little is known of the role that sleep plays for adults when it comes to declarative learning. A study conducted by Wilson, Baran, Schott, Ivry and Spencer sought to see if sleep plays an important role in declarative learning and motor skill learning in adults. Participants were given two tasks to assess motor skill learning and another to assess declarative learning. The participants learned a motor sequence and list of word pairs during either the morning or evening. Memory tests were given to the participants twice, at twelve and twenty-four hours after training. This gap allowed for a period of sleep, a recall test, a period of normal wake, and a recall test. The study results showed that motor skills were not dependent on sleep. However, declarative learning tasks and recall increased when the participants slept before the recall test. The study also showed that a change in sleep patterns and networks activated during sleep may contribute to age related decline in motor sequences but does not affect declarative learning. This study shows that even though the role of sleep may change throughout age it is still very important to declarative learning regardless of age. \n\nAnother aspect of research is seeing the importance of declarative learning in both implicit and explicit learning tasks. In a study conducted by Matthew Kirkhart undergraduate participants underwent implicit and explicit artificial-grammar learning tasks to see how declarative learning functioned in each. For the Implicit task participants where told that they would see a series of letter strings, a group of letters that appear in a word, and had to judge if the string were well formed or not well formed. For the Explicit task participants were told they had to reproduce letter strings according to a set of rules, which they had to determine and would be tested on later. The participants where then shown a series of letter strings and asked if they followed the rules or not. The results showed that declarative learning was not required for implicit learning but was related to the consistency in performance. It was seen, however, that declarative learning is required for explicit learning and consistency of performance. This shows that adults are using declarative learning when undergoing explicit tasks, such as memorizing formulas for statistics class. This research provides more evidence of the importance of declarative learning in education for not just children but for adults as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1152203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1152203", "title": "Doctor of Information Technology", "text": "Doctor of Information Technology\n\nThe Doctor of Information Technology (DIT) is a research-oriented professional doctoral degree offered by some universities. It is of the same academic level as traditional PhD; however, DIT research focuses more on industry practice than on theoretical framework. Upon successful completion, the title of \"Doctor\" is awarded and the post-nominals of DIT can be used.\n\nCharles Sturt University description\n\nThe Doctor of Information Technology offers the research opportunity to extend knowledge of the discipline of information and communication technology and develops the attributes required to successfully identify, investigate and resolve problems and opportunities in today's IT industry .\n\nTowson's University description\n\nTowson University's Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) program in information technology constitutes a broad scope of research areas including: Computer Science (CS), Information Systems (IS) and Information Technology (IT). This program prepares students to become professors, scientists, and entrepreneurs. Graduates assume leadership roles in their current careers or in academic, research, government and state of the art industry positions. About half of our alumni are currently working as tenure-track assistant professors or research scientists across the country and abroad in CS, IS, and IT fields. After graduation, some alumni remained with their current employers and were promoted to higher level positions. Others started their own ventures to develop innovative products .\n\nUniversity of Northern Virginia Description\n\nThe Doctor of Information Technology (DIT) addresses the expanding needs of professionals who manage information resources; solve information, communication and technology-related problems in businesses and other organizations; or educate and/or train others in fields related to the applications of information systems and communications. This is an intensive program designed primarily to develop practitioners and teaching faculty with very high levels of both technical and analytical expertise in specific fields of information technology (IT). Admission to the program is competitive. Meeting a specific set of minimum qualification does not assure admission .\n\nAustralia\n\nCanada\n\nNamibia\n\nPhilippines\n\nUnited States\n\nMexico\n"}
{"id": "217777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217777", "title": "Educational entertainment", "text": "Educational entertainment\n\nEducational entertainment (also referred to by the portmanteau neologism edutainment) is media designed to educate through entertainment. Most often it includes content intended to teach but has incidental entertainment value. It has been used by academia, corporations, governments, and other entities in various countries to disseminate information in classrooms and/or via television, radio, and other media to influence viewers' opinions and behaviors.\n\nInterest in combining education with entertainment, especially in order to make learning more enjoyable, has existed for hundreds of years, with the Renaissance and Enlightenment being movements in which this combination was presented to students. Komenský in particular is affiliated with the “school as play” concept, which proposes pedagogy with dramatic or delightful elements.\n\n\"Poor Richard’s Almanack\" demonstrates early implementation of edutainment, with Benjamin Franklin combining entertaining and educational content, such as puzzles and rules of conduct, into an instructional entity for colonists.\n\nLater development of the concept of edutainment can be tied to Walt Disney, with his first educational short film, \"Tommy Tucker’s Tooth\", being commissioned and shot in 1922 for the Deneer Dental Institute. The entry of the U.S. into World War II also had a major impact on the popularity of educational entertainment, as a relationship between Disney and the U.S. government formed; Disney was able to experiment with educational and nonfiction films in a way that continued even after the war, with series such as \"True-Life Adventures\" and \"Disneyland\". In the transcript of an interview with Alexander P. de Seversky from The Walt Disney Archives, of which its date and interviewer is unknown, the following quotation is found:Since the 1970s, various groups in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Latin America have used edutainment to address health and social issues such as substance abuse, immunization, teenage pregnancy, HIV/AIDS, and cancer. Initiatives in major universities, such as Johns Hopkins University and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, NGOs such as PCI-Media Impact, and government agencies such as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) have produced edutainment content.\n\nModern forms of edutainment include television productions, film, museum exhibits, and computer software which use entertainment to attract and maintain an audience, while incorporating deliberate educational content or messages. It is also apparent that educational elements are becoming implemented into traditionally recreational realms, such as vacations and games.\n\nThe term edutainment was used as early as 1954 by Walt Disney to describe the \"True Life Adventures\" series. The noun \"edutainment\" is a neologistic portmanteau used by Robert Heyman in 1973 while producing documentaries for the National Geographic Society. It was also used by Dr. Chris Daniels in 1975 to encapsulate the theme of his Millennium Project. This project later became known as The Elysian World Project. The offshoot word \"Edutainer\" has been used by Craig Sim Webb since before the turn of the millennium to describe an individual who offers edutainment presentations and performances.\n\n\"Schoolhouse Rock\", \"Wishbone\", \"Sesame Street\", and \"Bill Nye the Science Guy\" are examples of shows that use music and video to teach topics like math, science, and history. Using music to aid memory dates back to the passing of ancient oral traditions, including the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\". Much of what edutainment can offer through audio and video especially, is accessible over the internet on platforms such as YouTube, with such channels as \"Vsauce\", \"CGP Grey\", \"MinutePhysics\", \"Meet Arnold, \"Veritasium\", and \"Crash Course\".\n\nPublic Service Broadcasting is a band that incorporates audio and footage from the British Film Institute into their music and performances, and this partnership helps the British Film Institute showcase its material; their album \"Inform—Educate—Entertain\", which covers topics such as the climbing of Mount Everest and highway safety, demonstrates the connection between the concept of edutainment and their music.\n\nMotion pictures with educational content appeared as early as 1943, such as \"Private Snafu\", and can still be seen in films such as \"An Inconvenient Truth\". After World War II, educational entertainment shifted towards television. Television programs can be divided into three main categories: those with primarily educational intentions, those with a high degree of both education and entertainment, and entertainment shows with incidental or occasional educational value.\n\nMexican TV producer Miguel Sabido pioneered in the 1970s a form of edutainment via telenovelas, \"soap operas for social change\". The \"Sabido method\" has been adopted in many other countries subsequently, including India, Peru, Kenya, and China. In Mexico, the government in the 1970s successfully used a telenovela to promote family planning to curb the country's high birthrate.\n\nThe third season of the television show \"MTV Shuga\" was analyzed by researchers and then published online in 2017 in terms of its effects related to its goal of educating African youth about sexual health and HIV, and secondarily, gender-based violence. In the randomized control trials, those in the treatment group who watched the show for six months were “almost twice as likely” to get tested at HIV testing centers; mixed results were found in regards to the show’s effects on gender-based violence.\n\nAccording to the article Walt Disney believed in education through the entertainment of film and television. He is known as the master of communications who brought both entertainment and education into the world in distinctive ways. His creation of mickey mouse and his adventures taught his audience that life is not always so simple, there will be obstacles that will stand in your way. Mickey mouse's is unpolished and imperfect which make him so realistic to his audience. In many of his stories we see him battle and adventure which he overcomes teach a value in life for viewers, keep going in life. Disney achieved and educational characteristic in his work through the picture series of live animals in their natural habitat by which some film techniques added to the drama of the series. This series was one that satisfied Walt Disney the most as it obtained both the qualities of entertainment and education, which was the characteristics of this series.\n\nEducating the public about health issues is a focus for many stakeholders, including the pharmaceutical industry. In recent years, several initiatives have used educational entertainment principles to highlight specific conditions or wider healthcare issues. Examples include In Memory about dementia, Millefeuille about psoriasis and This is Axiom about the challenges facing the UK's National Health Service.\n\nGames fulfill a number of educational purposes. Some games may be explicitly designed with education in mind, while others may have incidental or secondary educational value. All types of games, including board, card, and video games, may be used in an educational environment. Educational games are designed to teach people about certain subjects, expand concepts, reinforce development, understand an historical event or culture, or assist them in learning a skill as they play.\n\nAccording to Paraskeva (2010), at least 68% of American households play video games. Many recent research articles postulate education and gaming can be joined to provide academic benefits.\n\nAccording to Van Eck (2006), there are three reasons why games are considered learning tools: 1. Ongoing research that has included the last 20 years of educational findings have proven that digital games can be educational; 2. The new generation of today wants \"multiple streams of information\" (p. 1), which includes quick and frequent interaction that allows inductive reasoning; and 3. The mere popularity of games has created a billion-dollar industry. The idea of playing a game assumes the person is engaging in that activity by choice. The activity should have some value of \"fun\". This does not mean that the person is engaging in the activity only for leisure pursuits; it can also include the desire to learn a skill, connect with other gamers (social community), and spend time in a chosen activity. The activity needs to remain one of choice for the gamer.\n\nKim (2008) supports the use of off-the-shelf games with meta-cognitive strategies to provide an increase in students' cognitive performance.\n\nRadio can serve as an effective vehicle for educational entertainment. The British radio soap opera \"The Archers\" has for decades been systematically educating its audience on agricultural matters; likewise, the Tanzanian radio soap opera \"Twende na Wakati\" (\"Let's Go With the Times\") was written primarily to promote family planning.\n\nLikewise, podcasts have begun to exemplify the concept of edutainment, with some radio programs also becoming available in this digital format. Not only are there are series with educational elements that are listened to recreationally, but there are also podcasts used as an educational tool. Lessons based on podcasts have increased in popularity, with \"TeachersPayTeachers\" finding that lesson plans relating to podcasts rose in downloads by 21 percent and 650 percent in 2014 and 2015, respectively, which corresponded with the release of \"Serial\".\n\nOther successful radio programs and/or podcasts that have fused entertainment and education include:\n\nToys are perhaps the earliest \"edutainment\" objects a person encounters, as many toys have also an educational aspect beside their aesthetic appeal. They can teach children literacy, numerical, conceptual or motor skills. Many toys (e.g., a miniature piano) are simply colorful, scaled-down versions of more complex objects, and thus can base children in skills and benefits associated with the latter. It is up to grown-ups to guide children to the toy's proper use in order to make the most out of it.\n\nToys are often employed in the context of mimicry and roleplay to partially experience personalities or situations not otherwise possible, very akin to simulation in video games. They can be used as primitive means to nurture an instinct or a character trait in children. Often, toys work simultaneously the other way, providing children with the means to \"express\" those things: a doll may be used by a girl to mimic her mother or express motherhood as much as to explore it.\n\nEven for toys that don't possess explicit educational value, a thoughtful parent or teacher can turn a static figurine, for example, into an object of interest, by pointing out its features or costumes, or referring to its history or science (e.g., a figurine of a Native American may be a starting point for exploring American history; a Santa Claus may be used to explore the roots of Christmas; a toy astronaut to explore science...), which can be done in conjunction with a more-explicitly \"edutaining\" object, such as a picture book. Most children are naturally inquisitive (possibly why they sometimes break their toys; simply to know what is inside or how it moves or what produces that sound), and caregivers should not waste this opportunity.\n\nEven \"grown-ups\" can learn through toys about children: what are their talents or interests; if they are more extrovert or introvert; indeed if they dislike toys and prefer social activities or sport, and thus capitalize on the children's abilities and correct what is wrong or lacking.\n\nSome toys are of considerable appeal and benefit to both children and adults, such as Lego or Rubik's Cube, as their design and implementation can range from the simple to the sophisticated.\n\nThe term \"edutainment\" was first made popular amongst the hip hop community by KRS-One (a.k.a. The Teacha) thanks to his Boogie Down Productions album by the same name.\n\nThe term has since been borrowed to describe hip hop culture's innate pedagogical aesthetics. Examples of this include how Hip Hop uniquely combines both thought and action (see Paulo Freire's use of praxis in \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\") and values both Eurocentric values of rational thought and Afrocentric epistemology of kinetic, affective and emotional ways of knowing. Another example is in the transmission of technical and historical knowledge, the manner in which Hip Hop practitioners learn and exchange by sharing moments of performance together through \"building\" or \"building sessions.\"\n\nThe concept of educational entertainment is being used for building learning programs for organizations. High technology is used to make the programs entertaining and educational. As an example, PowerPoint presentations may become more entertaining with the addition of flashy animations or graphics. An article in a satirical newspaper, \"The Onion\", poked fun at the concept of embellishing boring presentations with attention-catching effects. A fictional marketing executive in the article noted the previous lack of excitement in the presentation, saying \"When we first finished the PowerPoint, the content was all there, but it still lacked that certain something.\"\n\nTheme parks are a specific kind of setting in which the combination of entertaining and educational elements can be prevalent. Epcot at Walt Disney World, which is owned by The Walt Disney Company, is highly based on edutainment; the park features attractions that teach about the past, conservation, imagination, future technologies, and the world. The park's dedication plaque, written by Marty Sklar and Erwin Okun, states the following: “May EPCOT Center entertain, inform and inspire. And above all, may it instill a new sense of belief and pride in man’s ability to shape a world that offers hope to people everywhere.\"\n\nThe offerings and promotions at SeaWorld associated with the educational topics of marine biology, conservation, and animal rescue efforts are increasing at their current locations and in plans for the upcoming Abu Dhabi theme park, which is likely due to activism for animal rights.\n\nOther notable theme parks that incorporate educational elements and topics are Disney's Animal Kingdom, Holy Land Experience, Dinosaur World, Busch Gardens, and Puy du Fou.\n\nEdutainment is also a growing paradigm within the science center and children's museum community in the United States, as well as in many other locations such as the zoo or a botanical garden. Educational locations such as these are constantly looking for new and innovative ways to reach the surrounding public and get them interested in areas such as the fine arts, science, literature, and history. Additionally, field trip visits to these educational places provide participants with interactional stimulus to learn about the content offered there. Since people are used to flashy, polished entertainment venues like movie theaters and theme parks, they demand similar experiences at science centers or museums. Consequently, interactive experiences, such as games and mobile apps, are implemented in museums in order to more effectively help people learn about what they are seeing. Museums are also embracing the ability to use storytelling to engage people, especially those who are young, in hopes to increase attendance; all the while, though, it is possible for the focus and purpose of museums to be diluted. Thus, a museum or a zoo can be seen as just another business competing for entertainment dollars from the public, rather than as an institution that serves the public welfare through education or historical preservation.\nMuch research has been done in association with edutainment and its effectiveness in its various forms. Particularly, the effects of the implementation of the concept of edutainment in the classroom setting have been studied on multiple occasions. The concept of flipped classrooms, in association with edutainment, was studied by Retta Guy and Gerald Marquis (2016), in which students were assigned video lessons and podcasts as opposed to projects prior to class; it was found that these students outperformed those in traditional classrooms, found the actual time in class to prompt more interaction, and thought the class to be more enjoyable, although there was a noticeable period of adaption.\n\nIn a study conducted by Ruby Lynch-Arroyo and Joyce Asing-Cashman (2016), \"Numb3rs\", which is an example of edutainment in the form of a television show, was integrated into the education of preservice mathematics teachers. The subsequent results exemplified the potential for edutainment to promote critical thinking, increased engagement, and growth mindsets.\n\nSimilarly, Craig D. Cox, \"et al\". (2017) conducted a study in which a mini-series that combined educational and entertaining elements was developed and presented to pharmacy preceptors; it was effective in increasing the confidence of the participants and was an honorable mention for the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy Innovations in Teaching Award in 2015.\n\nA system that incorporated the concept of edutainment through the use of games has also been studied in association with disabled students by Amal Dandashi, \"et al\". (2015), and it was found that the system had a positive impact in terms of scores, coordination, communication, and memorization skills; after replaying, higher scores were often achieved as well.\n\nAs for podcasts and narration specifically, according to a study conducted by Trish L. Varao Sousa, Jonathan S. A. Carriere, and Daniel Smilek (2013) with student participants, these forms may not be particularly helpful, as their use can result in both less information actually internalized and less engagement overall when compared to other \"reading encounters.\"\n\nDebate regarding the value of educational entertainment and its implementation has been had for decades. The negative feedback received by Walt Disney for his \"True-Life Adventures\" series represents the views of some skeptics of the concept of edutainment. For example, the use of music along with the footage of animals, such as the circumstance in which \"The courtship of tarantulas was set to a tango, while the movements of two scorpions were showcased with square dance music in the background\" was criticized at the time; the purpose of the music was to enhance the footage, but some people took issue with this humanization. Additionally, without approval, some of the film crew of \"White Wilderness\" prompted unnatural behavior in lemmings that would be filmed, which then generated a negative response.\n\n\"Sesame Street\", a television show that demonstrates the concept of edutainment, has also specifically been subject to criticism. For instance, in an article published in \"The Atlantic\" in May 1971, John Holt criticizes the promotion of \"Right Answers\" in the television show without actual action being taken by the children, and also argues that it is nonsensical and perplexing to have adults convey to children that everything that is to be discovered is logical and easy to understand.\n\nThe argument that the concept of edutainment hurts the actual value of education has been prevalent as well. The book entitled \"Amusing Ourselves to Death\" by theorist Neil Postman demonstrates this notion, as it is claimed that areas of study have been “transformed into congenial adjuncts of show business.” Museum professionals especially have faced this dilemma, as in study conducted by Pierre Balloffet, François H. Courvoisier, and Joëlle Lagier (2014), museum professionals did not have severe negative opinions of the incorporation of educational entertainment, but individuals nevertheless had varying viewpoints on \"the appropriateness or potential risks of edutainment.\"\n"}
{"id": "186345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186345", "title": "Ex situ conservation", "text": "Ex situ conservation\n\n\"Ex situ\" conservation literally means, \"off-site conservation\". It is the process of protecting an endangered species, variety or breed, of plant or animal outside its natural habitat; for example, by removing part of the population from a threatened habitat and placing it in a new location, which may be a wild area or within the care of humans. The degree to which humans control or modify the natural dynamics of the managed population varies widely, and this may include alteration of living environments, reproductive patterns, access to resources, and protection from predation and mortality. \"Ex situ\" management can occur within or outside a species' natural geographic range. Individuals maintained \"ex situ\" exist outside an ecological niche. This means that they are not under the same selection pressures as wild populations, and they may undergo artificial selection if maintained \"ex situ\" for multiple generations.\n\nAgricultural biodiversity is also conserved in \"ex situ\" collections. This is primarily in the form of gene banks where samples are stored in order to conserve the genetic resources of major crop plants and their wild relatives.\n\nBotanical gardens, and zoos are the most conventional methods of Ex-situ conservation. Also in ex- situ conservation, all of which house whole, protected specimens for breeding and reintroduction into the wild when necessary and possible. These facilities provide not only housing and care for specimens of endangered species, but also have an educational value. They inform the public of the threatened status of endangered species and of those factors which cause the threat, with the hope of creating public interest in stopping and reversing those factors which jeopardize a species' survival in the first place. They are the most publicly visited ex situ conservation sites, with the WZCS (World Zoo Conservation Strategy) estimating that the 1100 organized zoos in the world receive more than 600 million visitors annually. Globally there is an estimated total of 2,107 aquaria and zoos in 125 countries. Additionally many private collectors or other not-for-profit groups hold animals and they engage in conservation or reintroduction efforts. Similarly there are approximately 2,000 botanical gardens in 148 counties cultivating or storing an estimated 80,000 taxa of plants.\n\nThe storage of seeds, pollen, tissue, or embryos in liquid nitrogen. This method can be used for virtually indefinite storage of material without deterioration over a much greater time-period relative to all other methods of \"ex situ\" conservation. Cryopreservation is also used for the conservation of livestock genetics through Cryoconservation of animal genetic resources. Technical limitations prevent the cryopreservation of many species, but cryobiology is a field of active research, and many studies concerning plants are underway.\n\nThe storage of seeds in a temperature and moisture controlled environment. This technique is used for taxa with orthodox seeds that tolerate desiccation. Seed bank facilities vary from sealed boxes to climate controlled walk-in freezers or vaults. Taxa with recalcitrant seeds that do not tolerate desiccation are typically not held in seed banks for extended periods of time.\n\nSomatic tissue can be stored \"in vitro\" for short periods of time. This is done in a light and temperature controlled environment that regulates the growth of cells. As a e\"x situ\" conservation technique tissue culture is primary used for clonal propagation of vegetative tissue or immature seeds. This allows for the proliferation of clonal plants from a relatively small amount of parent tissue.\n\nAn extensive open-air planting used maintain genetic diversity of wild, agricultural, or forestry species. Typically species that are either difficult or impossible to conserve in seed banks are conserved in field gene banks. Field gene banks may also be used grow and select progeny of species stored by other \"ex situ\" techniques.\n\nPlants under horticultural care in a constructed landscape, typically a botanic garden or arboreta. This technique is similar to a field gene bank in that plants are maintained in the ambient environment, but the collections are typically not as genetically diverse or extensive. These collections are susceptible to hybridization, artificial selection, genetic drift, and disease transmission. Species that cannot be conserved by other \"ex situ\" techniques are often included in cultivated collections.\n\nPlants are under horticulture care, but the environment is managed to near natural conditions. This occurs with either restored or semi-natural environments. This technique is primarily used for taxa that are rare or in areas where habitat has been severely degraded.\n\nEndangered animal species and breeds are preserved using similar techniques. Animal species can be preserved in genebanks, which consist of cryogenic facilities used to store living sperm, eggs, or embryos. For example, the Zoological Society of San Diego has established a \"frozen zoo\" to store such samples using cryopreservation techniques from more than 355 species, including mammals, reptiles, and birds.\n\nA potential technique for aiding in reproduction of endangered species is interspecific pregnancy, implanting embryos of an endangered species into the womb of a female of a related species, carrying it to term. It has been carried out for the Spanish ibex.\n\nCaptive populations are subject to problems such as inbreeding depression, loss of genetic diversity and adaptations to captivity. It is important to manage captive populations in a way that minimizes these issues so that the individuals to be introduced will resemble the original founders as closely as possible, which will increase the chances of successful reintroductions. During the initial growth phase, the population size is rapidly expanded until a target population size is reached. The target population size is the number of individuals that are required to maintain appropriate levels of genetic diversity, which is generally considered to by 90% of the current genetic diversity after 100 years. The number of individuals required to meet this goal varies based on potential growth rate, effective size, current genetic diversity, and generation time. Once the target population size is reached, the focus shifts to maintaining the population and avoiding genetic issues within the captive population.\n\nManaging populations based on minimizing mean kinship values is often an effective way to increase genetic diversity and to avoid inbreeding within captive populations. Kinship is the probability that two alleles will be identical by descent when one allele is taken randomly from each mating individual. The mean kinship value is the average kinship value between a given individual and every other member of the population. Mean kinship values can help determine which individuals should be mated. In choosing individuals for breeding, it is important to choose individuals with the lowest mean kinship values because these individuals are least related to the rest of the population and have the least common alleles. This ensures that rarer alleles are passed on, which helps to increase genetic diversity. It is also important to avoid mating two individuals with very different mean kinship values because such pairings propagate both the rare alleles that are present in the individual with the low mean kinship value as well as the common alleles that are present in the individual with the high mean kinship value. This genetic management technique requires that ancestry is known, so in circumstances where ancestry is unknown, it might be necessary to use molecular genetics such as microsatellite data to help resolve unknowns.\n\nGenetic diversity is often lost within captive populations due to the founder effect and subsequent small population sizes. Minimizing the loss of genetic diversity within the captive population is an important component of \"ex situ\" conservation and is critical for successful reintroductions and the long term success of the species, since more diverse populations have higher adaptive potential. The loss of genetic diversity due to the founder effect can be minimized by ensuring that the founder population is large enough and genetically representative of the wild population. This is often difficult because removing large numbers of individuals from the wild populations may further reduce the genetic diversity of a species that is already of conservation concern. Maximizing the captive population size and the effective population size can decrease the loss of genetic diversity by minimizing the random loss of alleles due to genetic drift . Minimizing the number of generations in captivity is another effective method for reducing the loss of genetic diversity in captive populations.\n\nSelection favors different traits in captive populations than it does in wild populations, so this may result in adaptations that are beneficial in captivity but are deleterious in the wild. This reduces the success of re-introductions, so it is important to manage captive populations in order to reduce adaptations to captivity. Adaptations to captivity can be reduced by minimizing the number of generations in captivity and by maximizing the number of migrants from wild populations. Minimizing selection on captive populations by creating an environment that is similar to their natural environment is another method of reducing adaptations to captivity, but it is important to find a balance between an environment that minimizes adaptation to captivity and an environment that permits adequate reproduction. Adaptations to captivity can also be reduced by managing the captive population as a series of population fragments. In this management strategy, the captive population is split into several sub-populations or fragments which are maintained separately. Smaller populations have lower adaptive potentials, so the population fragments are less likely to accumulate adaptations associated with captivity. The fragments are maintained separately until inbreeding becomes a concern. Immigrants are then exchanged between the fragments to reduce inbreeding, and then the fragments are managed separately again.\n\nGenetic disorders are often an issue within captive populations due to the fact that the populations are usually established from a small number of founders. In large, outbreeding populations, the frequencies of most deleterious alleles are relatively low, but when a population undergoes a bottleneck during the founding of a captive population, previously rare alleles may survive and increase in number. Further inbreeding within the captive population may also increase the likelihood that deleterious alleles will be expressed due to increasing homozygosity within the population. The high occurrence of genetic disorders within a captive population can threaten both the survival of the captive population and its eventual reintroduction back into the wild. If the genetic disorder is dominant, it may be possible to eliminate the disease completely in a single generation by avoiding breeding of the affected individuals. However, if the genetic disorder is recessive, it may not be possible to completely eliminate the allele due to its presence in unaffected heterozygotes. In this case, the best option is to attempt to minimize the frequency of the allele by selectively choosing mating pairs. In the process of eliminating genetic disorders, it is important to consider that when certain individuals are prevented from breeding, alleles and therefore genetic diversity are removed from the population; if these alleles aren't present in other individuals, they may be lost completely. Preventing certain individuals from the breeding also reduces the effective population size, which is associated with problems such as the loss of genetic diversity and increased inbreeding.\n\nShowy Indian clover, \"Trifolium amoenum\", is an example of a species that was thought to be extinct, but was rediscovered in 1993 in the form of a single plant at a site in western Sonoma County. Seeds were harvested and currently grown in ex situ facilities.\n\nThe Wollemi pine is another example of a plant that is being preserved via \"ex situ\" conservation, as they are being grown in nurseries to be sold to the general public.\n\n\"Ex situ\" conservation, while helpful in humankind's efforts to sustain and protect our environment, is rarely enough to save a species from extinction. It is to be used as a last resort, or as a supplement to in situ conservation because it cannot recreate the habitat as a whole: the entire genetic variation of a species, its symbiotic counterparts, or those elements which, over time, might help a species adapt to its changing surroundings. Instead, \"ex situ\" conservation removes the species from its natural ecological contexts, preserving it under semi-isolated conditions whereby natural evolution and adaptation processes are either temporarily halted or altered by introducing the specimen to an unnatural habitat. In the case of cryogenic storage methods, the preserved specimen's adaptation processes are (quite literally) frozen altogether. The downside to this is that, when re-released, the species may lack the genetic adaptations and mutations which would allow it to thrive in its ever-changing natural habitat.\n\nFurthermore, \"ex situ\" conservation techniques are often costly, with cryogenic storage being economically infeasible in most cases since species stored in this manner cannot provide a profit but instead slowly drain the financial resources of the government or organization determined to operate them. Seedbanks are ineffective for certain plant genera with recalcitrant seeds that do not remain fertile for long periods of time. Diseases and pests foreign to the species, to which the species has no natural defense, may also cripple crops of protected plants in \"ex situ\" plantations and in animals living in \"ex situ\" breeding grounds. These factors, combined with the specific environmental needs of many species, some of which are nearly impossible to recreate by man, make \"ex situ\" conservation impossible for a great number of the world's endangered flora and fauna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9409683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9409683", "title": "F. G. Bailey", "text": "F. G. Bailey\n\nFrederick George Bailey (born 1924) is a British social anthropologist. He received his Ph.D. in social anthropology from Manchester University, working under Max Gluckman, and is closely associated with the Manchester School of social anthropology. A prolific writer, he is probably best known for his studies of local and organizational politics. He has conducted fieldwork in Bisipāra, Orissa, India, and has also written on political functions, particularly the ways that social structure arises out of and is used by the interactions of individuals.\n\nBailey was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1976 At the time he was a Professor at the University of Sussex. He is professor emeritus in the department of anthropology at the University of California, San Diego.\n\n"}
{"id": "2487061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2487061", "title": "French schooner Belle Poule", "text": "French schooner Belle Poule\n\nBelle Poule is a French naval schooner used as a training vessel.\n\nShe was launched on 8 February 1932 at the Chantiers de Normandie at Fecamp. She is a replica of a type of fishing vessel that was used until 1935 off Iceland for catching cod. She has a sister ship, .\n\nIn 1940 she fled to the United Kingdom and in July was seized by the British. Both \"Étoile\" and \"Belle Poule\" then served the Free French Forces during the Second World War, \"Belle Poule\" as an annex. In recognition of their loyalty to the Free French they received the honour of the right to fly the French flag with the cross of Lorraine. In 1945 she returned to Brest. Since 13 May 1978 \"Belle Poule\" has been sponsored by the city of Pauillac.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31953206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31953206", "title": "Geragogy", "text": "Geragogy\n\nGeragogy is a theory which argues that older adults are sufficiently different that they warrant a separate educational theory. The term \"eldergogy\" has also been used. Some critics have noted that \"one should not expect from geragogy some comprehensive educational theory for older adult learners, but only an awareness of and sensitivity towards gerontological issues\". \n\nKey distinctions between traditional pedagogy and geragogy include offering \"opportunities for older adult learners to set the curriculum themselves and to learn through activities of personal relevance\" as well as recognition of age-related issues which may affect learning, such as reduced sensory perception, limited motor capabilities and changes in cognitive processes, especially memory. \n\nCollaborative peer learning, as employed in the University of the Third Age, is a common element within geragogic settings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45364460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45364460", "title": "H. Thomas Johnson", "text": "H. Thomas Johnson\n\nH. Thomas Johnson (born 1938) is an American accounting historian, and Professor of Business Administration at Portland State University, known for his work on the history of accounting and accounting thought \n\nJohnson obtained his BA in economics from Harvard University and his MBA in accounting from Rutgers University. For his graduate studies he moved to the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he obtained a PhD in economic history. He went on to earn a Certified Public Accountant license.\n\nAfter graduation Johnson started as accountant at Arthur Andersen. In the early 1970s he started his academic career at the University of Western Ontario as Assistant Professor of Economics, and by 1975 was Associate Professor of Economics. In 1980 he was appointed Professor of Accounting at the Western Washington University. In 1988 he move to the Portland State University, where he was appointed Professor of Business Administration. At the Bainbridge Graduate Institute in Washington he is also appointed Distinguished Consulting Professor of Sustainable Business.\n\nA 2003 survey by Harvard Business School Press placed him among the 200 leading management thinkers living today. The American Society for Quality awarded him the Deming Medal, and in 2007 he received a distinguished lifetime achievement award from the American Accounting Association.\n\nJohnson's research interests are in the field of \"the intersection of systems thinking, modern physics, and sustainable operations management. He is exploring the application of natural living system principles to the design of ecologically-focused local business operations that emulate and extend the scope of the Toyota Production System.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "15018133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15018133", "title": "Heinrich Dumoulin", "text": "Heinrich Dumoulin\n\nHeinrich Dumoulin, S.J. (31 May 1905 – 21 July 1995) was a Jesuit theologian, a widely published author on Zen, and a professor of philosophy and history at Sophia University in Tokyo (where he was Professor Emeritus). He was the founder of its Institute for Oriental Religions, as well as the first Director of the Nanzan Institute for Religion and Culture.\n\nHe was born in Rhineland, Germany, and ordained as a Jesuit priest in 1933. In 1935 he was sent to Japan on missions under the guidance of Fr. Hugo Enomiya-Lassalle, where he became fluent in Shinto religion and Buddhism.\n\nHe died in 1995 at the age of 90.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33922475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33922475", "title": "High School for the Gifted", "text": "High School for the Gifted\n\nVNU-HCM High School for the Gifted (Vietnamese: Trường Phổ thông Năng khiếu, Đại học Quốc gia Thành phố Hồ Chí Minh) is a specialized public high school located in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.\n\nEstablished in 1996, HSG is affiliated with Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City and is a specialized high school for highly talented students in academic subjects such as mathematics, natural sciences, literature, and foreign languages. It is considered one of the best high schools in Vietnam, and one of the three most selective specialized high schools in Ho Chi Minh City, along with Lê Hồng Phong High School and Trần Đại Nghĩa High School.\n\nThe school aims to provide the best environment for academic excellence and preparation for higher education, and regularly sends students to participate in regional, national, and international academic competitions, especially in the International Science Olympiads.\n\nThe school was established in 1993 and was originally affiliated with Ho Chi Minh City University of Science as the Specialized School in Mathematics and Informatics for high school students. By 1996, the school has moved to its current main campus in District 5, expanded its programs of specialization, and become an independent high school that operates directly under Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City under the new name. HSG opened its second campus in Thu Duc in 2014.\n\nBased on performance in HSG's separate entrance examination, about 300 students are selected every year from more than 4000 applicants for each subject, who hail from not only Ho Chi Minh City but all the Southern provinces. Specialized students receive tuition remissions, and scholarships are awarded to the top students in each class each semester.\n\nIn addition to the national high school curriculum, HSG offers rigorous, specialized instruction in seven subjects: English, Mathematics, Computer Science, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, and Literature. The school also admits students to non-specialized classes who seek to prepare for university entrance examinations in Groups A and D (see Higher education in Vietnam). Teachers at HSG are also professors from the various campuses of Vietnam National University. Classes at the school are known for their innovative critical and creative approaches, as well as for being highly challenging and often incorporating university-level materials.\n\nHSG is best known for both its students' top performance in the Vietnam University Admission Rankings, and its long-standing record in academic competitions for high school students at both national and international levels. In particular, HSG students consistently win first and second places in the National Academic Competitions, the most intense competitions for high school students in Vietnam, and are regularly among those selected to represent Vietnam in the International Mathematical Olympiad and the International Olympiad in Informatics.\n"}
{"id": "5221662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5221662", "title": "Hilda Borko", "text": "Hilda Borko\n\nHilda Borko (born 1951) is an educational psychologist who researches teacher cognition and changes in novice and experienced teachers' knowledge and beliefs. Her work has identified factors that affect teachers' learning of reform-based practices. She is chair of the educational psychology program area in the school of education at the University of Colorado, and is a former president of the American Educational Research Association. Her university education (PhD 1978, MA 1973, BA 1971) was completed at the University of California.\n\n"}
{"id": "20764979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20764979", "title": "Humayun Chaudhry", "text": "Humayun Chaudhry\n\nHumayun J. Chaudhry (born November 17, 1965) is an American physician and medical educator who is President and Chief Executive Officer of the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) of the United States, a national non-profit organization founded in 1912 that represents the 70 state medical boards of the United States and its territories and which co-sponsors the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE). From 2007 to 2009, he served as Commissioner of Health Services for Suffolk County, New York, the state's most populous county outside New York City. In 2016, he was listed by Modern Healthcare magazine as one of the 50 Most Influential Physician Executives and Leaders.\n\nChaudhry is co-author of \"Medical Licensing and Discipline in America\", published by Lexington Books in 2012, and principal author of \"Fundamentals of Clinical Medicine\", 4th edition, a textbook for medical students and physicians in training that was published by Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins in 2004. A Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School and Clinical Associate Professor of Preventive Medicine at Stony Brook University School of Medicine in New York, he is the recipient of a Laureate Award from the American College of Physicians and has been inducted into the American Osteopathic Association's Mentor Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2014, he was appointed Chair-Elect of the International Association of Medical Regulatory Authorities by its Members General Assembly during a biennial meeting in London.\n\nOn October 10, 2013, the Federation of State Medical Boards issued a press release announcing \"substantial progress\" in the development of an interstate medical license compact to facilitate the ability of physicians to practice medicine across state borders. \"As our health care system continues to change,\" said Chaudhry, \"the need for increased license portability has become more pressing.\" The proposed compact is expected to maintain state authority and control, establish high standards for physician eligibility, and ensure a well-coordinated and fairly-applied system of oversight and discipline.\n\nChaudhry served as the facilitator of a meeting of representatives of state medical boards in January 2013 in Dallas, Texas that formally led to the proposal for an interstate compact. On March 13, Chaudhry and Lance Talmage, M.D., then Chair of the FSMB Board of Directors, received a bipartisan letter of support signed by U.S. Senator John Thune of South Dakota and seven other U.S. Senators (Thomas Carper, Roger Wicker, James Inhofe, John Barrasso, Mike Enzi, Tim Johnson, and Lamar Alexander) applauding \"the efforts of the Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB) on the work you are doing in examining solutions that would allow for more efficient sharing of medical licensure information that is necessary for the advancement of telehealth technology.\" The letter expressed the hope that the FSMB can leverage resources \"to develop a proposal that satisfies the myriad of complex issues associated with licensure portability.\"\n\nIn an article in the New York Times on June 30, 2014, Chaudhry said, “The proposed compact would create a new pathway to speed the licensing of doctors seeking to practice medicine in multiple states,” adding that \"it would allow doctors to see more patients than ever before, if they want to.”\n\nIn 2010, the House of Delegates of the Federation of State Medical Boards approved a policy framework for \"Maintenance of Licensure\" (MOL) that recommends that all U.S. physicians, as a condition of licensure renewal, \"should provide evidence of participation in a program of professional development and lifelong learning.\" The MOL framework proposes three components: reflective self-assessment, assessment of knowledge and skills, and performance in practice.\n\nChaudhry chairs a CEO Advisory Council that advises the FSMB's Board of Directors and works with an FSMB MOL Implementation Group, which has recommended that physicians actively engaged in the Maintenance of Certification (MOC) program of the American Board of Medical Specialties, or the Osteopathic Continuous Certification (OCC) program of the American Osteopathic Association, should be recognized as \"substantially in compliance\" with any MOL program that is adopted by a state. For those physicians not board-certified in a specialty of medicine or surgery, or for those not engaged in MOC or OCC, the program envisions states allowing multiple options by which each of the components of MOL can be achieved for licensure renewal.\n\nOn August 5, 2010, Chaudhry joined David Blumenthal, M.D., President Barack Obama's National Coordinator for Health Information Technology at the time, and Marilyn Tavenner, then Principal Deputy Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, at a news conference at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., where Chaudhry noted that \"health information technology, generally, and electronic health records, in particular, could be of value as doctors fulfill (their) professional obligation and demonstrate ongoing clinical competence through MOL.\"\n\nState medical and osteopathic boards in the United States took 5,721 disciplinary actions against physicians in 2009, an increase of 342 actions over 2008, according to a report by the Federation of State Medical Boards. Writing in the introduction to the report, Chaudhry cautioned against using those numbers to compare or rank states. \"Changes in a board's funding, staffing levels, changes in state law and many other factors,\" he said, \"can impact the number of actions taken by a board.\"\n\nIn an interview with the New York Times about telemedicine and virtual medicine, Chaudhry noted that the Federation of State Medical Boards' guidelines define a patient-doctor relationship as \"clearly established and begun when a physician agrees to undertake diagnosis and treatment of the patient, and the patient agrees.\" He stressed the importance of ensuring that patients receive the same standard of care online as in person. \"It should be the same exact standard as if the patient was in your examining room,\" he cautioned. \"You can't cut corners.\"\n\nFrom 2009 Chaudhry has served as Secretary of the Management Committee for the International Association of Medical Regulatory Authorities. In 2010, and again in 2012 and 2014, he was elected representative of the United States to IAMRA's General Assembly.\n\nAs Commissioner of Health Services for New York's Suffolk County from 2007 to 2009, Chaudhry supervised 1,500 employees and oversaw an annual budget of $400 million. He created a Division of Preventive Medicine within the department through a restructuring of 72 personnel that was approved by Suffolk County Executive Steve Levy and the Suffolk County Legislature and which went into effect on January 1, 2008. \"We can't make people live forever,\" Chaudhry said in an article in the New York Times about the new division, \"but we can prevent premature deaths.\"\n\nDuring the 2009 flu pandemic due to Influenza A virus subtype H1N1, Chaudhry was praised for taking a cautious public health approach to the new virus, recommending closure of schools when needed and setting up e-mail alerts for Suffolk County administrators. Describing his department's public health response to the 2009 flu pandemic in an Op-Ed article in Newsday, Chaudhry noted the advantages of advanced technology (e.g., BlackBerry, Twitter) in tracking the virus and keeping in close communication with local, state and federal health officials. Named \"Long Islander of the Week\" and \"Dr. Stay-Well,\" Newsday recognized Chaudhry for \"intently but calmly... (steering) the public on a better middle course between apathy and alarm.\" Suffolk County Executive Steve Levy described him as someone with \"an uncanny ability to take complex medical issues and explain them in layman's terms to the public,\" adding that Chaudhry \"helped to guide the county through a number of health crises during his tenure in a masterful way.\"\n\nDuring Chaudhry's tenure, Suffolk County adopted a ban on trans fats, derived from partially hydrogenated oil, from its restaurants in 2009. Suffolk County became the first jurisdiction in the United States to ban the sale of baby bottles containing the chemical Bisphenol A, in a measure that Chaudhry said would be enforced with the assistance of consumer complaints. Justifying Suffolk County's actions against Bisphenol A, Chaudhry said, \"There was enough evidence to warrant some type of intervention before that final study is done that shows this to be harmful.\" The County's lawmakers also voted to support a proposal (the first in the nation) to ban the indoor use of electronic cigarettes in public buildings, a move Chaudhry supported.\n\nFollowing the completion of his medical residency training in Internal Medicine, Chaudhry served from 1996 to 2001 as Director of Medical Education at Long Beach Medical Center, a 202-bed community teaching hospital in Long Beach, New York. From 2001 to 2007, he served as full-time Chairman of the Department of Medicine at the College of Osteopathic Medicine of New York Institute of Technology, where he also served from 2003-2005 as Assistant Dean for Pre-Clinical Education, supervising the undergraduate medical education delivered to first and second year medical students, and from 2005-2007 as the Assistant Dean for Health Policy.\n\nChaudhry is the principal author of the medical student textbook \"Fundamentals of Clinical Medicine\", written with co-authors from New York University School of Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Tufts-New England Medical Center and Brigham and Women's Hospital. The book was praised by Jerome P. Kassirer, M.D., MACP, Editor-in-Chief of the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" from 1991–1999, who wrote in its foreword, \"Every medical student should have this book.\" Chaudhry's book, \"Medical Licensing and Discipline in America\", co-written with David Johnson, was cited as an authority in the U.S. Supreme Court's 2015 decision in North Carolina Board of Dental Examiners versus Federal Trade Commission in Associate Justice Samuel Alito, Jr.'s dissenting opinion.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2007, Chaudhry served in the United States Air Force Reserves as a physician and medical educator, rising to the rank of Major and serving as a Flight Surgeon on flight status with the 732nd Airlift Squadron and as the Medical Operations Flight Commander for the 514th Aeromedical Staging Squadron (ASTS) of the 514th Air Mobility Wing, both at McGuire Air Force Base, New Jersey. Chaudhry has flown on training missions on the C-141 Starlifter, KC-10 Extender, and the C-17 Globemaster III and is the recipient of an Air Force Commendation Medal, an Air Force Achievement Medal and a Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon.\n\nFrom 2009 through 2012, Chaudhry delivered a lecture in the \"Foundations of Public Health\" course at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston, Massachusetts and from 2002 through 2012 taught electrocardiography at the New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine. He served as President of the American College of Osteopathic Internists from 2008-2009 and as President of the Association of Osteopathic Directors and Medical Educators from 2007-2009. On April 11, 2013, he was awarded the title of Master of the American College of Physicians for \"excellence in the practice of medicine\" at a ceremony in San Francisco.\n\nChaudhry has written more than 50 articles in peer-reviewed medical journals in the areas of public health, preventive medicine, medical education and infectious diseases, including maintenance of licensure, studies on ways to improve vaccine utilization in acute care settings, the development of a multimedia online orientation for the third-year medicine clerkship, a comprehensive review of drug-induced aseptic meningitis, a review of streptococcal paratracheal abscesses, and a consensus statement on abdominal girth and cardiometabolic risk.\n\nFrom 1995-2004, Chaudhry was the author of resolutions adopted by the American Medical Association, the Medical Society of the State of New York, the New York State chapter of the American Society of Internal Medicine, and the New York Chapter of the American College of Physicians on such subjects as the promotion of warning labels on herbal supplements, support for state funding of cancer prevalence mapping in New York, physician education about prevailing screening guidelines, medical resident duty hours and supervision, managed care principles and practices, physician workforce predictions and the training of physicians in women's health.\n\nAs Chair of the Health and Public Policy Committee of the New York Chapter of the American College of Physicians, Chaudhry served as the lead author of a White Paper in 2006 on the future of primary care medicine in New York State.\n\nHumayun Javaid Chaudhry was raised in Brooklyn, New York, where he attended Public School 199 and Andries Hudde Junior High School. He graduated from Midwood High School and its Medical Science Institute at the age of 16. He received a B.A. in biology and an M.S. in anatomy from New York University, followed by a D.O. (Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine) degree from the New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine. In 2001, he received a Master of Science degree in Health Care Management from the Harvard School of Public Health.\n\nHe completed an osteopathic rotating internship at St. Barnabas Hospital, Bronx, New York, followed by a three-year residency in Internal Medicine at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, New York, where he served an additional year, from 1995–1996, as Chief Medical Resident.\n"}
{"id": "16054124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16054124", "title": "Icelandic Student Loan Fund", "text": "Icelandic Student Loan Fund\n\nThe Icelandic Student Loan Fund (Icelandic: \"Lánasjóður íslenskra námsmanna\" or \"LÍN\") is a government-funded and government-run student loan fund for Icelandic citizens. It provides loans for living expenses of up to 7 years of university studies. Repayment of the loans is at below-market-rate interest, with a two-year grace period upon completion of studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "56732133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56732133", "title": "International Society for Analysis, its Applications and Computation", "text": "International Society for Analysis, its Applications and Computation\n\nThe International Society for Analysis, its Applications and Computation (ISAAC)\n\nwas founded at the University of Delaware in 1996 and is dedicated to the promotion of mathematical analysis and its applications. It has organized international congresses biannually since 1996 and supported regional conferences in various fields of analysis in developing countries since then. The society has members from all continents. Robert Gilbert (University of Delaware), Heinrich Begehr (Free University Berlin), MW Wong (York University), Michael Ruzhansky (Imperial College London) and Luigi Rodino (University of Turin) served as its past presidents. \n\nThe current president is Michael Reissig.\nInternational congresses organized by ISAAC took place in:\nThese congresses have attracted an increasing number of analysts and applied mathematicians from around the world. The next congress will take place at the University of Aveiro in 2019.\n"}
{"id": "34047045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34047045", "title": "Jail Madrassa", "text": "Jail Madrassa\n\nJail Madrassa is a religious seminary being used as a faith-based religious center for rehabilitation of drug addicts, juvenile criminals, and religious training for a fee.\n\nThis seminary came into limelight due to its brutal treatment of students for chaining, beatings, lashes, and deprival of food like in a torture chamber. Apparently, parents voluntarily paid for their children to attend 'Jail madrassa' to morphe themselves from the addiction of drugs or for the crimes, children have committed.\n\nUpon meeting the teenagers by Hasan Kazmi, a BBC Urdu service's scribe, the inmates complained that they were forced to study all hours with no adequate food nor clothing. Another boy complained, Taliban visited the seminary to get prepared for battle.\n\nAccording to Pakistan's police, they arrested the head of the seminary for subjecting students to torture and abuse under the basement of seminary. At least 18 of the teenagers aged under 20 were rescued.\n\nSome critics questioned the rationale behind the arrest of inmates in religious centre which is also common in private jails run by feudal lords in Pakistan and drug-addict rehabilitation centres where inmates are chained to prevent them from escape.\n\nFew reports also suggest that almost 50 students under age of 18 were kept chained in the basement of seminary for sexual abuse. According to Rehman Malik, Pakistan's Interiror Minister, he asked the police to investigate if the seminary had any links to the terrorist organisations like Tehreek-e-Taliban in imparting terrorist training.\n\nAccording to CNN affiliate GEO News, the students were beaten and shocked with electric wires. According to police, some parents enrolled the students for religious training with no knowledge of harsh treatment to their children.\n\n"}
{"id": "48338910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48338910", "title": "Jaime Awe", "text": "Jaime Awe\n\nJaime José Awe is a Belizean archaeologist who specializes in the ancient Maya, an Associate Professor of Anthropology at Northern Arizona University, and the Director of the Belize Valley Archaeological Reconnaissance Project.\n\nAwe, the ninth-youngest of eleven children, was born and raised in San Ignacio, Cayo District, Belize (then British Honduras). His childhood home was within walking distance of Maya ruins, where, as a youth, he would amuse himself by digging up ancient Maya artifacts. Courses in Anthropology that he took while a student at St. John’s College in Belize City rekindled his curiosity about the human past and inspired him to pursue a career in archaeology. Due to the limited educational opportunities available to Belizeans at the time, however, he had no choice but to go abroad in order to continue his formal study of the subject. Before leaving his Central American homeland to further his education, he held the government post of Archaeological Assistant at the Department of Archaeology (then under the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment) and served as a field assistant in excavations at the Maya archaeological sites of Cerros, Lamanai and the Sayab Mai Cenote.\n\nAwe majored in Anthropology at Trent University in Canada, where he was mentored by Paul Healy and received his B.A. and M.A. in 1981 and 1985, respectively. He began his doctoral studies at the State University of New York at Albany, but later transferred to the University of London, where he became the first Belizean to ever receive a Ph.D. in Archaeology in 1992. Since earning his doctorate, Awe has held faculty positions at Trent University, the University of New Hampshire, Galen University (in Belize) and Northern Arizona University, where he is currently an Associate Professor in the Department of Anthropology.\n\nAwe has held the Belizean government posts of Archaeological Assistant, Chief Archaeologist and Acting Commissioner of Archaeology at the Department of Archaeology, and Director of the Institute of Archaeology (formerly the Department of Archaeology, and now under the National Institute of Culture and History). Although he resigned the latter post in 2014, he remains Director of the Belize Valley Archaeological Reconnaissance Project (BVAR, which is under the Institute of Archaeology), a position he has held since 1988.\n\nBVAR includes multi-year excavations at the Maya archaeological sites of Baking Pot, Cahal Pech, Lower Dover and Xunantunich. Awe has also directed the Western Belize Regional Cave Project (WBRCP, 1997-2008), which involved excavations at Actun Tunichil Muknal (ATM) and other Maya cave sites. In addition to his work through BVAR and WBRCP, he has directed excavations at the Maya archaeological sites of Altun Ha, Caracol, Lamanai, Lubaantun and Nim Li Punit. Awe has devoted an impressive amount of time and energy to his excavations at Cahal Pech, and his writings have largely focused on the Maya cities of west-central Belize during the Formative, Preclassic and Classic periods. However, he has published on topics related to the archaeology of Belize in earlier and later periods as well. In all, he has authored and co-authored over fifty academic publications, and appeared in several televised documentaries on archaeology and the ancient Maya.\n\n\nIn 2012, while still Director of the Institute of Archaeology, Awe threatened to sue Disney, Lucasfilm, Paramount Pictures and others, on behalf of the nation of Belize. At the center of this was the Mitchell-Hedges Skull, which was supposedly recovered from the Maya archaeological site of Lubaantun in the 1920s, and which allegedly inspired a prop that was central to the 2008 motion picture Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. The suit demanded that the Mitchell-Hedges Skull be returned to Belize, and that the nation receive a share of the film’s profits. The suit was dismissed as \"frivolous\" and the authenticity of the skull determined to be 1930s Europe (made with a diamond-tipped drill).\n\nAwe is married to fellow Maya archaeologist and BVAR staff member Myka Schwanke.\nHe is fluent in English, Spanish and Belizean Creole.\n\n"}
{"id": "14750215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14750215", "title": "List of United States graduate business school rankings", "text": "List of United States graduate business school rankings\n\nList of United States business school rankings is a tabular listing of some of the business schools and their affiliated universities located in the United States that are included in one or more of the rankings of full-time Master of Business Administration programs. Rankings are typically published by magazines or websites. This list is not a comprehensive list of business schools in the United States. These rankings are a subset of college and university rankings. Business schools are university-level institutions generally affiliated with a university or college that produces students who attain business administration degrees. Most of the schools listed in the rankings below are accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. Some of the publications shown here have related rankings for undergraduate, part-time and executive curricula. There is currently some controversy among faculty and administrators in American institutions of higher education regarding the request by the surveyors to have college presidents give their subjective opinion of other colleges because some of the methodologies are deemed misleading and a disservice. This has resulted in a movement surrounding the President's letter.\n\nBusiness school rankings are important to the various business schools because they are an important marketing tool used to recruit top students, and lure recruiters from the top companies. Business schools attempt to achieve higher rankings in order that they may obtain the top students who will over the course of their careers most likely benefit the school by achieving high ranking positions, attaining great influence, and accumulating great wealth. Such students often are able to help other students attain better (higher paying, more respected and more influential) jobs. Students use the rankings to choose their school, and creators of the rankings produce them to aid in this decision.\n\nMore than half of recruiters said they believe the quality of MBA graduates is the same or better currently compared with past years. Some of the most renowned schools, such as Harvard and Stanford, do not rank as highly as their stature might suggest. Recruiters complain that they often find graduates of some of the most famous institutions more arrogant and less collegial than the MBAs they meet at other schools. Recruiters also noted that \"some of the large, elite schools also don't seem to enjoy as many close, personal relationships with recruiters as smaller MBA programs do.\"\n\nThe rankings are based on a variety of factors such as standardized test scores of students, salary of recent graduates, survey results of graduates and/or recruiters, the specific schools that choose to participate in a market survey, the number of top companies recruiting at the school and a variety of attributes. The ratings vary significantly by method used to determine the success of each program. For instance, the \"Forbes\" and \"Financial Times\" results are based on long-term graduate career progress concerns, the \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" and \"Economist\" polls evaluate short-term experiences of the students with their program, \"U.S. News & World Report\" consider the recent experiences of recruiters with the program, and other rankings like the Aspen Institute \"Beyond Grey Pinstripes\" measure integration of sustainability material into business programs.\n\nThe \"U.S. News & World Report\" uses a combination of the objective and subjective as well. The magazine seeks \"expert opinion about program quality and statistical indicators that measure the quality of a school's faculty, research, and students.\" However, it ranks a broad spectrum of professional school programs such as business schools, law schools, and medical schools as well as a variety of programs specific academic disciplines such as the social sciences or humanities. The business opinion data incorporates responses from deans, program directors, and senior faculty about the academic quality of their programs as well as the opinions of professionals who actually do the hiring of the new MBA graduates from the schools. The statistical data combines measures of the qualities of the incoming students and as well as the faculty with measures of post graduate success as related to their degrees. There were 382 programs that responded out of 402 solicited, and the formula used a strict combination of quality assessment (40%), placement success (35%), and student selectivity (25%).\n\nThe \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" rankings, which are based on three sources of data (a student survey, a survey of corporate recruiters, and an intellectual capital rating), are published in mid-October of even numbered years. The 2006 student survey of 45 online questions of students' ratings of their programs was distributed to 16,595 students three weeks before graduation; there were 9,290 responses. The recruiter survey determines how many MBAs a recruiter's company hired in the previous two years and which schools it actively recruits from. 223 respondents participated out of 426 solicited. The intellectual capital is determined based on a formula incorporating academic publications in journals, books written, and faculty size.\n\nThe \"Forbes magazine\" methodology was to calculate a five-year return on investment for 2002 graduates. \"Forbes\" surveyed 18,500 alumni of 102 MBA programs and used their pre-enrollment and post-graduate business school salary information as a basis for comparing post-MBA compensation with the cost of attending the programs.\n\nThe Economist Intelligence Unit, the business information arm of the Economist Group, gathered results from two internet questionnaires, one of business schools and one of their students and recent graduates, and used them to rate business schools located all over the world. Information provided by the schools made up 80% of the ranking, with student and alumni responses accounting for only 20%. Factors in the evaluation included faculty:student ratio, GMAT scores of incoming students, student body diversity, foreign languages offered, percentage of graduates finding jobs within three months after graduation, percentage of graduates finding jobs through the school's career service, graduates' salaries and the comparison of pre-enrollment and post-graduation salaries, and student/alumni evaluations of the program, facilities, services, and alumni network. Results were tabulated using a smoothing method incorporating the three previous years' results. The organization used strict data provision thresholds, with the result that some highly regarded schools were omitted from the list of 100 ranked schools.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" poll was the result of over 10,000 respondents to nearly 23000 electronic questionnaires of alumni from 155 qualifying business schools. The survey began in July 2006 and all internationally accredited programs that are at least five years old and that have produced at least 30 graduates in each of the last three years were solicited. 113 of the 155 had at least 20 respondents and at least a 20 percent response rate. The questionnaire used twenty criteria in three main areas. The poll actually presents all twenty criteria to the reader. Eight criteria are based on alumni responses; eleven criteria are based on business school responses, and the final criterion is based on a research index produced by the \"Financial Times\". The survey responses are audited by KPMG.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" has also produced a \"ranking of rankings\" summarizing five of the individual rankings (\"The Economist\", \"Bloomberg Businessweek\", \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Forbes\", \"Financial Times\"). They produce United States, and European summary rankings based on all five and a global summary ranking using the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"Economist\" and \"Financial Times\". The summary is based on underlying polls in which a school placed in the top ten using an average of the ordinal placements. The summary excludes the \"U.S. News & World Report\" results.\n\nThe \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\" includes every institution that has any Nobel Laureates, Fields Medals, and highly cited researchers. In addition, major universities of every country with significant amount of papers indexed by Science Citation Index-Expanded (SCIE) and Social Science Citation Index (SSCI) are also included. Having alumni of an institution winning Nobel Prizes in Economics since 1951 attributes 10% of the score. Staff of an institution winning Turing Awards in computer science since 1961 contributes 15% of the score. Highly cited researchers in economics/business category get 25% weighting. Papers indexed in SSCI in economics/business fields gets 25%. Finally, the percentage of papers published in top 20% journals of economics/business fields to that in all economics/business journals gets 25% weighting.\n\nRankings based on attributes other than standardized test scores, salary of graduates, and similar attributes also exist. The \"Beyond Grey Pinstripes\" ranking, compiled by the Aspen Institute and published biannually, is based entirely on the integration of social and environmental stewardship into university curriculum and faculty research. Data for this survey is solicited from university administrators at accredited colleges, and audited by teams of Ph.D. scoring fellows. Rankings are calculated on the amount of sustainability coursework made available to students (20%), amount of student exposure to relevant material (25%), amount of coursework focused on stewardship by for-profit corporations (30%), and relevant faculty research (25%). The 2011 survey and ranking include data from 150 universities.\n\nThe ranking of business schools has been discussed in articles and on academic websites.\nCritics of ranking methodologies maintain that any published rankings should be viewed with caution for the following reasons:\n\nIn the specific case of MBA programs, one study found that ranking MBA programs by a combination of graduates' starting salaries and average student GMAT score can duplicate some of the ranking order found in top 20 lists of Business Week and U.S. News & World Report.\n\nThe historical rankings of the top MBA programs show little variation, even over a long time period. In 1977, \"MBA Magazine\" surveyed business schools deans to come up with a ranking which listed The Wharton School, Harvard Business School, Stanford Graduate School of Business, the Booth School of Business, and the MIT Sloan School of Management as their top 5. These schools plus the Kellogg School of Management have always comprised the top 5 schools in every U.S. News & World Report ranking. With the addition of Columbia Business School, these seven schools which are most frequently listed at the top of various rankings (and are the top seven worldwide in the Business Insider ranking) have been referred to as \"America's seven most powerful schools\".\n\nBelow all schools that ranked on any of the lists below are ordered alphabetically and presented with their numerical rankings in the respective lists. The following abbreviations are used in the column headings: USN - \"U.S. News & World Report\", BW - \"Bloomberg Businessweek\", Ec - \"The Economist\", FT - \"Financial Times\", AE - \"América Economía\", CNN - \"CNN Expansion\", BI - \"Business Insider\", QS - \"Quacquarelli Symonds\" and ARWU - \"Academic Ranking of World Universities\".\n"}
{"id": "53090945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53090945", "title": "Martha Farkas Glaser", "text": "Martha Farkas Glaser\n\nMartha Farkas Glaser (February 15, 1921 – December 3, 2014) was the manager, producer, and business partner of jazz musician Erroll Garner. She was also a civil rights activist. Though she was best known for her role as Garner's manager, she was also a prolific writer of lyrics and poetry. \n\nGlaser was born in Duquesne, Pennsylvania, to parents Samuel and Pearl Farkas, Hungarian immigrants who emigrated to the Pittsburgh area. She had a sister named Bella Rosenberg.\n\nGlaser graduated from Southwestern High School in Detroit, Michigan and then earned her Bachelor's degree in Government with minors in Economics, Sociology and History from Wayne State University in Detroit in 1942. \n\nAfter college Glaser worked for the Metropolitan Detroit Youth Council and as a compliance officer for the War Manpower Commission. She also held a position in the publicity department of the Greater Detroit and in the Wayne County Union council. During this time she promoted and was involved with local leaders in the community to maintain food subsidies. She was active in organizing the efforts of local trade union and non-unionized workers. She continued her education during this time by studying radio script writing. It was during this time that she decided to take a career in journalism and public affairs, but after the Detroit race riot of 1943 she was a major participant in addressing race relations by helping to form the Entertainment Industry Emergency Committee to halt \"race hatred.\" After these positions, she worked for the City of Chicago Mayor's Commission on Human Relations from about 1944 to 1946. She handled publicity, press relations, fact-finding and specialized in press releases addressing issues related to race relations. She also arranged events for the commission. She was a featured speaker on radio shows and public functions on activities of the commission. After leaving this job, she accepted a job with the Disc Company of New York City. In 1946, Glaser worked for the City of Chicago Mayor's Commission on Human Relations.\n\nIn the early 1950s Glaser met jazz pianist Erroll Garner composer of the standard \"Misty\". Though recorded by a wide variety of performers, Garner's version of \"Misty\" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1991.\n\nGlaser maintained the collection of Erroll Garner original recordings and records during her lifetime. The collection was given to the University of Pittsburgh by her estate. Examples of records contained in the archives include Glaser's:\n\nRecordings from the archives and preserved by Glaser have been released and included songs that have been published for the first time in September 2016. In the recent release of archived recordings, Glaser can be heard during the studio recordings give instructions to Garner from the control booth.\n\nDuring her lifetime, Glaser maintained the largest collections of Garner's work.\n\nShe went by various names. In 1947, she called herself Martha Gleicher. By 1949, she took the name of Martha Glaser Gleicher.\n"}
{"id": "38857279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38857279", "title": "Mbankomo Centre of Excellence", "text": "Mbankomo Centre of Excellence\n\nThe Mbankomo Centre of Excellence (French: \"Centre d'Excellence de Mbankomo\") is sports training facility owned by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) in Mbankomo, Cameroon which has been operational since 1998. It is situated in the middle of the equatorial forest which gives teams a secluded place for training. The centre also serves as the home venue of the Cameroon national football team.\n\nIt was during one of Assisi's Executive Committee meets in South Africa in April 2003 that the CAF had decided to contribute more to the development of football on the continent through the construction of sports facilities. In its first phase achievements, six regions of Africa had been identified. For the zone in Central Africa, the country of Roger Milla was chosen. The Government of the Republic of Cameroon has offered Mbankomo field, located 24 km from Yaoundé. December 20, 2006, Shorouk, an Egyptian company started work, which in principle should be received in the month of July.\n\n6 billion CFA francs. In the opinion of Issa Hayatou, the chairman of the Confederation of African Football (Caf) is approximately the amount of money already engulfed by his institution in the works construction of the \"Centre of Excellence\" in Cameroon. The announcement was made last Friday during a site visit by the President of CAF, who was accompanied on the occasion of its employees.\nIn the opinion of Issa Hayatou, the contribution of the International Federation of Association Football (Fifa) is $1.8 million (1.2 in interest-free repayable loan and $600 million in donations) . The rest of the investment capital comes from the CAF. He added that the Centre of Excellence Mbankomo could be more expensive: \"If the government of Cameroon did not exempt the construction material of all customs duties.\"\n\nSome teams have already used the centre's infrastructure:\n\n\nAlready built over five hectares, 24 hectares were granted by the State of Cameroon, the Academy is located near the centre of Mbankomo, four kilometers from the road Yaounde- Douala. The architectural masterpiece includes a large central building, which has 40 luxury rooms, a restaurant, a conference room and several offices. Two playgrounds for the practice of football are being finalized. A maximum size (90mx120m) field will be covered with synthetic turf and other minimum size (45mx90) will be natural grass.\n\nThe centre has the following facilities:\n\n6 hectares of the 24 hectares available are occupied.\n\nThe centre has been operational since 2010, is located in the quiet equatorial forest, in a secure, ideal for training, green housing and seminars environment\n\n"}
{"id": "48269792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48269792", "title": "Michel Draguet", "text": "Michel Draguet\n\nMichel Draguet (born 23 January 1964 in Ixelles, Belgium) is a Belgian art historian, professor at the Université libre de Bruxelles, who serves as Director and CEO of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium since May 2005. As Director and CEO, Michel Draguet is a member of the board of the federal administration for science: the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO).\n\nMichel Draguet oversaw the Museum of Oldmasters, the Fin-de-siècle Museum, the Museum of Modern Art, the Magritte Museum (Musée Magritte Museum) and two private artistic houses: the Antoine Wiertz Workplace and the Meunier House.\n\nIn 2015, with 767.355 visitors, The Royal Fine Arts Museum of Belgium was considered as the 82th museum in the world (Top 100 Art Museum Attendance).\n\nFollowing the bombing attack in Brussels in March 2016, the museum lost 40% of its attendance. Since 2016, the institution rebuilt its position. In 2017, The Royal Fine Arts Museum of Belgium is the leading cultural institution in Belgium with 649.337 visitors.\n\nMichel Draguet joined the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in May 2005 from his position of Professor of Art History of the 19th and the 20th Centuries at Université libre de Bruxelles where he has been serving since 1990.\n\nBetween August 2010 and February 2014, Michel Draguet was also designated by the Minister in Charge of Federal Science Policy as Acting Director of the Royal Museums of Art and History. Defending federal art collections against dismantling, Michel Draguet was at the core of a violent debate. Nevertheless, Michel Draguet got a positive evaluation in April 2017 and started a new six years mandate running until 2023.\n\nMichel Draguet is a member of the class of Arts of the Royal Academies for Science and the Arts of Belgium, elected on 6 January 2005.\n\nMichel Draguet studied Art History at Université libre de Bruxelles from 1983 to 1987. In 1987, he gets his master's degree in Art History and Archeology with a dissertation related to \"The Concept of Space in the roots of Abstract Art : Kandinsky, Mondran, Malévitch\". This dissertation won the Masui Prise in 1988.From 1989 to 1993, Michel Draguet was a Research Fellow at the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS).\n\nIn 1990, Michel Draguet gets his PhD (\"Origins of Abstract Art from Kandinsky to Malévitch (1911—1918)\") with the Greatest distinction. From 1993 to 1995, Michel Draguet is a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS).\n\nFrom the beginning of his studies till 1990, he worked closely with Philippe Robert-Jones, Chief Curator of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium, initially as an assistant and, from 1990, as a colleague.\n\nWith Philippe Roberts-Jones, Michel Draguet published books and catalogues and managed exhibitions dedicated to Abstract Art in Belgium and to a famous Belgian sculptor André Willequet.\n\nFrom 1995 until 2000, Michel Draguet became Research Associate and, from 2000 till 2001, Senior Research Associate at the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS).\nSince 1990, Michel Draguet is Lecturer of History of Modern Art at Université Libre de Bruxelles. He became professor in History of Modern Art (19th-20thCenturies) in 2004 and since 2005 Associate Professor. He is still in charge of the Research Center René Magritte (CEREM) and of the International Bernheim Chair.\n\nIn 2005, Michel Draguet is designated as Chief Curator of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium for a first mandate of 6 years. He get a second mandate in 2011 and a third one in 2017.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2014, Michel Draguet is designated General Director ad-interim of the Royal Museums of Art and History of Belgium.\n\nBetween 1992 and 2004, he also free-lanced as Press Correspondent of (Paris).\n\nAs specialist of the Fin-de-siècle, Michel Draguet published several studies books dedicated to :\n\n\nHis studies about symbolism are now international reference (\"Le Symbolisme en Belgique\", Anvers, Fonds Mercator, 2005. Second Edition, 2010) and conducted him to organize several exhibitions :\n\n\nAs author and curator, Michel Draguet’s researches are essentially focused on Art of the 20thCentury with two main topics : Magritte and the Surrealism and CoBrA and the abstract heritage in Modern Art.\n\nIn 2003, Michel Draguet created the Centre de Recherche René Magritte at Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB).\n\nCurator and Co-curator of several Magritte exhibition :\n\n\nIn 2009, he created, with the support of the Magritte Foundation and GDF-Suez, the Magritte Museum as part of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium. With an average annual attendance of 350.000 visitors, the Magritte Museum is a flagship for Brussels.\n\nAs concerns CoBrA, Michel Draguet was curator of the Christian Dotremont retrospective in 2004 (\"Christian Dotremont. Les Développements de l’œil\", Mons, Museum of Fine Arts, 2004), co-curator of the CoBrA show and the Alechinsky restrospective at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium. For the purpose of this exhibition, he published an extensive study about the work of Alechinsky : \"Alechinsky de A à Y\". In 2016, he organized the first large retrospective of Alechinsky held in Japan.\n\nDraguet is also the author and curator of shows dedicated to contemporary artists like Thierry de Cordier, Hiroshi Sugimoto or Andres Serrano.\n\nHe also published studies about Chinese contemporary artist and Nobel Prize 2000 Gao Xingjian (\"Gao Xingjian. Le goût de l’encre\", Paris, Hazan, 2002. Second Edition, 2015) in correlation with exhibition in Mons and Ixelles.\n\nIn 1998, his book \"Chronology of the XX Century Art\" (Paris, Flammarion (Tout l’art-Encyclopédies), 1997. Second Edition, 2003) won the Wernaers Prize from the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS).\n\nAs author, Michel Draguet, published a total of 27 books (the latest one dedicated to Nagas (\"Naga : Awe Inspiring Beauty\", Brussels, Fonds Mercator, 2018)) and more than 107 articles or contributions to catalogues. He curated 45 exhibitions in Belgium, Netherlands, France, Greece, Italy, Korea, China, Japan and the US.\n\nHe published a large number of exhibition catalogues and a wide spectrum of other writings on modern and contemporary art, on museum management, and lectured extensively on these subjects as well.\n\nThe Museums’ collections trace the history of the visual arts – painting, sculpture and drawing – from the 15th to the 21st centuries. They preserve the works of the Flemish Primitives, of Pieter Bruegel, Peter Paul Rubens, Jacques Jordaens, Jacques Louis David, Auguste Rodin, James Ensor, Paul Gauguin, Fernand Khnopff, Henry Moore, Paul Delvaux, René Magritte, Marcel Broodthaers, Jan Fabre and many others. This jewel among Belgium's cultural institutions comprises several entities: the Musée Old Masters Museum, the Musée Modern Museum, the Musée Wiertz Museum and the Musée Meunier Museum, the Musée Magritte Museum and the Musée Fin-de-Siècle Museum.\n\nMichel Draguet repositioned the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium nationally as well as internationally through a redeployment of the collection focused on the specificity of Belgian creation as well as on the particularity of Belgian reception of European creation.\n\nIn 2009, he created the Magritte Museum with, for the first time in Belgium, a private-public partnership (with GDF-Suez) on competencies. The selection of works exhibited in the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium is constantly expanding with a changing selection of external loans. With the support of Belgian and foreign museums as well as private collectors, works are being made available that have previously never been exhibited. The visitor can thus discover many treasures that are still in private possession. Since its creation, this museum, measuring 2500 m, has welcomed more than two million visitors and thus contributed to the economic and cultural development of the Belgian capital. The Magritte Museum has already received 8 nominations and prizes. Every year more than 300,000 visitors come here from all over the world to discover the life and the works of René Magritte.\n\nIn 2013, Michel Draguet inaugurated the Fin-de-siècle Museum as first chapter of a new conception of a museum of Modern Art. Famous visual artists like Constantin Meunier, James Ensor, Henri Evenepoel, Fernand Khnopff, Léon Spilliaert and Georges Minne testify to the effervescent activity of this period, reflected also in all other creative fields: literature, opera, music, architecture, photography and poetry (Maurice Maeterlinck, Emile Verhaeren, Octave Maus, Victor Horta, Henry Van de Velde, Maurice Kufferath, Guillaume Lekeu and others). Art Nouveau architecture is evoked by means of a 3D reconstruction of six buildings Art Nouveau. This was the first introduction of new technologies inside de Museum. Located at the heart of Brussels, where between 1884 and 1914 the exhibitions of \"Les XX\" and \"La Libre Esthétique\" made the city one of the artistic capitals of the late 19th century, this museum is distinguished by its multidisciplinary nature, through a partnership formed with the Royal Library, the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie, the Royal Museums of Art and History, Cinematek, the Bibliotheca Wittockiana, the King Baudouin Foundation and the Brussels Capital Region for housing the Gillion Crowet collection, which is one of the museum's highlights.The Fin-de-Siècle Museum, which was applauded internationally when it opened, welcomed 170,000 visitors during its first operating year.\n\nMichel Draguet also initiate a highly popular yet challenging exhibition program from ancient masters to contemporary art mounting up to eight major shows per year. The quality and quantity of this program has been supported by a renewing strategy to the public in its diversity. In this way, Draguet initiate “Museum on measure”: a program dedicated to fragilized public supported by charity. In parallel, the educational services have developed a range of new activities and the social programs have been extended. This is a result of the increase in partnerships between the public and private sectors .\n\nAmong the highlights of the programme have been large exhibitions such as “Art Nouveau Bing”, “Rubens in Brussels”, “CoBrA”, “Alechinsky”, “Leon Spilliaert” “Jordaens and Antiquity”, “The Flemish Primitives in Brussels”, “Andres Serrano”, “Marc Chagall”, “Kandinsky and Europe”, “Symbolism in Belgium” and “Stanley Kubrick Photographer”. Michel Draguet introduced also a wide spectrum of new exhibition formats with from small “cabinet exhibitions” on such artists Pierre Lahaut, Jules Schmalzigaug, Hiroshi Sugimoto, and others. He placed permanent installation of contemporary artist inside the OldMasters department like David Altmejd or Jan Fabre.\n\nFor many years now, the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium has been the most popular art institution in Belgium. In 2015, the Museum had its best attended year so far with a total of 767.355 visitors. This strategy was accompanied by a significant increase in corporate funding. From 2005 until 2017, the number of visitors has doubled and the turnover tripled, thereby reducing the State contribution from 54.4% of the global budget to 32%. And this has been achieved during a period of very severe budgetary cuts: 11% in 2013 and 2014, 30% for the period 2015-2019.\n\nThe online and digital outreach of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium is considered as pioneer. In this perspective, Draguet initiated the \"Bruegel. Unseen Masterpieces\" project which allows members of the public to delve into the works of Pieter Bruegel the Elder († Brussels, 1569). While the artist and his paintings are instantly recognizable worldwide, every composition also depicts a whole host of characters - some surprising, others familiar - and vignettes that provide the subtext of history, which are masterpieces worthy of exploration in their own right.\n\nDrawing on a wide spectrum of virtual and on-site experiences, this unique initiative offers everyone the chance to immerse themselves in Bruegel’s works by honing in on the details of each painting and accessing expert knowledge. By delving deeper into the artist’s world, the viewer will discover the unexpected elements in Bruegel’s works which constitute the pinnacle of the Flemish master’s craft. The Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium launched this project jointly with the Google Cultural Institute in anticipation of the 450thanniversary of Bruegel’s death, in 2019. The project brings together major international museums, many of which are European, around the focal figure of Bruegel the Elder. This innovative concept is the fruit of in-depth thinking on current transformations in the field of museology as it adapts to the digital era.\n\nThe \"Bruegel. Unseen Masterpieces\" virtual exhibitions' can be accessed on the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium’s interactive screens, on their mobile app and on the Google Cultural Institute platform.\n\nFrom 1st August 2010 till 28 February 2014, Michel Draguet was designated temporary Director-General of the Royal Museums of Art and History. This entity includes the Museum of Antiquities, the Museum of Non-European Civilizations, the Museum of the Decorative Arts, the Chinese Pavilion, the Japanese Tower, Halle Gate, and the Museum of Musical Instruments.\n\nHe was charged to manage this institution, which was then in crisis, to overhaul its accounts and structure. Under his leading, the museum put together a restructuring plan that, starting with the merging of the support staff, created enough flexibility to allow modernization of the administrative organizations of both entities – the Royal Museums of Art and History and Royal Museums of Fine Arts.\n\nMichel Draguet initiated a large project of redeployment of both institutions. The home of the former would house collections of a more universalist nature, on the model of the Louvre and British Museum, and that of the latter would offer a more “national” foundation that broadens to embrace a European dynamic comprising the very future of Brussels as the capital of what is today a common space. From there came the idea of redeploying the collections in accordance with two guidelines: first, to bring the federal collections together in one place; second, to develop theme-based museums that complement rather than compete with one another.\n\nTogether the Royal Museums of Fine Arts and Art and History welcome more than 1.1 million visitors a year: this is the equivalent of the population of Brussels. Merged, the two institutions would increase their attractiveness to the public: by reorganizing the presentation of the collections between the different institutions; by creating poles of scientific excellence based on the strong points of the collections; by creating new museum entities that offer a new dimension for marketing the city of Brussels; and by rationalizing the teams and practices employed. For the Royal Museums of Art and History, the entities proposed are as follows : a Museum of Non-European Civilizations, which would initially be a world museum through the eyes of Europeans, on the basis of which a new intercultural dialogue could be initiated; a Museum of Antiquities as a platform for the European identity; and a Museum of Music that will broaden the perspectives of the current Museum of Musical Instruments. Plus a few heritage assets – the Chinese Pavilion, the Japanese Tower and Halle Gate – which contribute to the attractiveness of the city.\n\nHis plan for redeployment of both the collections and personnel that would culminate in the fusion of the two entities was discussed at the Belgian Parliament in 2012. Without initiative from the politics and considering that his Secretary of State was not supporting the reforme led by him and by the Chairman of Belspo Philippe Mettens, Michel Draguet decided to step down in April 2014.\n\nMichel Draguet is a member of various boards including the following:\n\n\nMichel Draguet was honored by :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12279069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12279069", "title": "Montana Dinosaur Trail", "text": "Montana Dinosaur Trail\n\nThe Montana Dinosaur Trail is a series of fourteen dinosaur-themed museums, state parks and other attractions in twelve communities located in the central and eastern regions of the state of Montana in the United States of America. The trail, a plan to increase attendance at the region's museums and drive tourism in general was established via the work of a number of museums as well as community and state officials. The idea for a trail uniting the museums and promoting tourism in eastern Montana came from a meeting of the Missouri River Country board of directors at the Dinosaur Field Station in Malta, Montana and the trail was officially launched via the efforts of the tourism groups of: Custer Country, Missouri River Country, Russell Country and Yellowstone Country; two state agencies: Fish, Wildlife and Parks and Travel Montana; and two federal agencies: the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Land Management.\n\nThe Dinosaur Trail opened in May 2005 and drew more than 196,000 visitors its first year. Since its opening, the trail facilities have hosted between 236,000 and 302,000 visitors each year. Promotion of the Trail includes a \"Prehistoric Passport\" on which visitors collect dinosaur icon stamps from each museum they visit. In addition to the participating museums, the trail has helped increase visitors to other small businesses along the route.\n\nThe fourteen organizations that make up the Montana Dinosaur Trail are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "15232107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232107", "title": "Nation (university)", "text": "Nation (university)\n\nStudent nations or simply nations ( meaning \"being born\") are regional corporations of students at a university. Once widespread across Europe in medieval times, they are now largely restricted to the oldest universities of Sweden and Finland, in part because of the violent conflicts between the nations in university towns in other countries. Medieval universities were large metropolitan centres with students from many different domestic and foreign regions. Students who were born within the same region usually spoke the same language, expected to be ruled by their own familiar laws, and therefore joined together to form the nations. The most similar comparison in the Anglo-world to the nation system is in the collegiate system of older British universities or fraternities at American universities; however, both of these comparisons are imperfect. In Portugal and Brazil, there are fraternities called \"\", but this has nothing to do with the \"natio\" original concept of nations (they are created for lodgement purposes).\n\nIn the University of Paris there were the French, Normans, Picards, and the English, and later the Alemannian nation. Jean Gerson was twice elected procurator for the French \"natio\" (i.e. the French-born students at the university) in 1383 and 1384, while studying theology at Paris. Also at Paris, Germanic speakers were grouped into a single nation.\n\nThe various nations in Paris often quarreled with one another; Jacques de Vitry wrote of the students:\n\n\"They affirmed that the English were drunkards and had tails; the sons of France proud, effeminate and carefully adorned like women. They said that the Germans were furious and obscene at their feasts; the Normans, vain and boastful; the Poitevins, traitors and always adventurers. The Burgundians they considered vulgar and stupid. The Bretons were reputed to be fickle and changeable, and were often reproached for the death of Arthur. The Lombards were called avaricious, vicious and cowardly; the Romans, seditious, turbulent and slanderous; the Sicilians, tyrannical and cruel; the inhabitants of Brabant, men of blood, incendiaries, brigands and ravishers; the Flemish, fickle, prodigal, gluttonous, yielding as butter, and slothful. After such insults from words they often came to blows.\"\n\nThe students who attended the medieval university in Oxford arranged themselves into two nations who quarrelled constantly. These two nations were called the \"australes\" and the \"boreales\". The \"australes\" originated from south of the River Trent and was the more powerful of the two nations. The Welsh were also considered part of the \"australes\", along with scholars from the Romance lands. The \"boreales\" came mainly from the north of England and Scotland.\n\nThe nations at Oxford were eventually disbanded in 1274 in an effort to maintain peace in the town. This measure was largely unsuccessful and conflicts between the nations continued. One such as on 29 April 1388 when Welsh students, who were according to the chronicler Henry Knighton \"semper inquieti\", fought with their northern counterparts. The following year the \"boreales\" ran amok in the town chanting 'war, war, war, slay, slay, slay the Welsh dogs' killing and looting as they went, before rounding up the remaining Welsh students and urinating on them as they kissed the town's gateposts 'goodbye'.\n\nA similar division of students had been adopted at the Charles University in Prague, where from its opening in 1347 the studium generale was divided among Bohemian (for local students), Bavarian, Saxon, and Polish \"nations\". When there was not a \"natio\" of a student's birth territory, students were assigned to another nation.\n\nWhen the University of Leipzig was established in 1409 by scholars from the University of Prague, the new university replicated the organisation of the \"nationes\" from Prague, replacing the Bohemian \"natio\" with one for local students from the Margravate of Meissen, becoming the \"Natio Misnensium\" with the other \"nationes\" remaining those of the Saxonum (Saxony), Bavarorum (Bavaria), and Polonorum (Poland).\n\nIn medieval Bologna, there existed three separate universities. Two for the study of law, one for students from Italy (but not Bologna) the \"universitas citramontanorum\" and another for students from outside the peninsula the \"universitas ultramontanorum\". The final school was for the study of arts and medicine \"universitas artisarum et medicorum\". The \"ultramontane\" university was divided into fourteen different nations as early as 1265, such as the Gauls, Picards, Burgundians, Norman, Catalan, Hungarian, English, Gascon \"et al.\" whereas the \"citramontane\" university was split into three nations; the Romans, Tuscans and Lombards.\nThe most important and powerful of the \"ultramontane\" University of Bologna was the German nation. One of its most famous members was Nicolaus Copernicus who, in 1496, enrolled into the \"Natio Germanorum\" (Natio of the Germans). a privileged university organization that included German-speaking students from many regions of Europe.\n\nStudents in the University of Padua were divided in 22 nations, which referred to the different territories ruled by the Republic of Venice, to the biggest states of Italy, and to the main states of Europe. Nations were: German (also called Alemannian), Bohemian, Hungarian, Provençal, Burgundian, Spanish, Polish, English, Scottish, Venetian, Overseas (Venetian Greek Islands), Lombard (East Lombardy and West Veneto), Trevisan (North and East Veneto), Friulian, Dalmatian, Milanese, Roman, Sicilian, Anconitan, Tuscan, Piedmontese and Genoan.\n\nIn Finland, student nations () exist at the University of Helsinki and Aalto University School of Science and Technology, where they are legally sanctioned and established in the mid-1600s and 1800s, respectively. Named after regions in Finland, students had to join according to their own geographical roots before membership became voluntary in 1937. Today, students can usually choose to join any nation. Both Finnish and Swedish speaking nations exist. Organizations termed \"nations\" exist also at other universities, although they are legally considered \"associations\". In Finland, student nations co-exist with a wide range of other student organizations, such as Student Unions.\n\nNations exist in some of the ancient universities in Scotland, although their significance has largely been forgotten. Nations never existed at the University of Edinburgh, and were abolished at St Andrews following discussions at the Royal Commission on the Universities of Scotland, which later led to the Universities (Scotland) Acts. Student nations continued into modern times at the University of Aberdeen and the University of Glasgow for the specific purpose of electing a Rector of the university.\n\nWhen Uppsala University was founded in 1477, the system of 'nationes' was copied from Sorbonne in Paris where a Scandinavian nation had existed. At the Swedish universities of Uppsala and Lund, a system of student nations (\"nationer\") remains, and until June 30, 2010 students were required to enroll in a nation. Historically, also Tartu University, founded in 1632 in then Swedish Estonia had nations. It is now voluntary, but still most of the students choose to remain members. The nations are named on regional lines, where the nations in Lund take their names from provinces and areas in southern Sweden, and those in Uppsala take their names from all over Sweden, except for the Scanian lands, the traditional catchment area for Lund, which was founded in 1666 to provide higher education for the youth in the newly conquered areas. (Until 2010, there was a \"Skånelandens nation\" in Uppsala, but it had no activity, and only existed as a legal fiction for those students who did not wish to take part in the activities of the other nations.)\n\nTraditionally, students were required to be members of the nations whose area one came from, but with one exception (Södermanlands-Nerikes nation at Uppsala, though international students are an exception to this), this requirement is now voided. The nations are in charge of the kinds of social activities which are at other universities normally handled by the student unions, such as bars, clubs, theatre companies, orchestras, sports societies, and also some housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "11074263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11074263", "title": "Noureddin Zarrinkelk", "text": "Noureddin Zarrinkelk\n\nNoureddin Zarrinkelk (also spelled Zarrin-Kelk, also known as Noori or Nouri, born 9 April 1937 in Mashhad) is an Iranian animator, concept artist, editor, graphic designer, illustrator, layout artist, photographer, script writer and sculptor.\n\nHe studied pharmacy at Tehran University and holds a PharmD. Then he studied animation film in the Belgium Royal Academy Of Fine Arts (Raoul Servais) from 1969 till 1972. \nZarrinkelk founded the first school of Animation, which later merged with the prestigious faculty of fine art of Tehran University. Zarrinkelk continued being a professor of animation and graphic arts well into his retirement age.\n\nSince 1971, Zarrinkelk has been Jury member of various international animation festivals and illustration biennials.\n\nZarrinkelk was elected as the president of ASIFA (Association International du Film d'Animation) by his peers in 2003.\n\nZarrinkelk is known as the father of animation of Iran.\n\nThe art of animation as practised in modern day Iran started in 1950s. Iran's animation owes largely to Noureddin Zarrinkelk. Zarrinkelk was instrumental in founding the Institute for Intellectual Development of Children and Young Adults (IIDCYA) in Tehran in collaboration with the late father of Iranian graphics Morteza Momayez and other fellow artists like Farshid Mesghali, Ali Akbar Sadeghi and Arapik Baghdasarian, among others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35931164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35931164", "title": "Pedro Noel", "text": "Pedro Noel\n\nPedro Noel is a Brazilian journalist and graduated philosopher. According to Romanian media, he is also an Internet media activist, known as 'one of those who made 700 thousand Spaniards take the streets' in 2011.\n\nIn December 2010, under the handle of 'FuturePress', Noel and Carrion started to write to the news portal WLCentral.org where they exposed in different languages and using different approaches for more than one year analysis on whistleblowing material, articles and reports on human-rights violations, civic-movements and net-neutrality.\n\nIn the late 2011, Pedro Noel along with other journalists started the Associated Whistleblowing Press, a media agency focused on the defense of human rights by promoting transparency, freedom of information and speech, whistleblowing and investigative journalism, conceived as a global network made up of cooperative local platforms and actors.\n\nAs the editor of AWP, Pedro Noel took part in more than 50 revelations of wrongdoing, corruption and abuse in Spain, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru and Iceland, since 2011.\n\nIn a controversial session at 32nd Chaos Communication Congress in Hamburg in 2015, Noel held a talk with Canadian journalist Bethany Horne denouncing violations of free speech standards by the Ecuadorian government. During the talk, Pedro Noel released documents providing evidence that press and media coverage of critical issues were considered by Ecuadorian government as risk factors for democratic stability through the local platform Ecuador Transparente, operated by Associated Whistleblowing Press. The publication followed previous denounces, also performed by Ecuador Transparente, of physical and on-line surveillance and spying against activists, journalists and politicians in Ecuador, performed by the local government. In April 2016, Noel also took part in the publication of alleged proofs of illegal Internet censorship performed by Ecuadorian government. In November 2016, Pedro Noel also participated in the release of the Godwin Papers, which showed on-line harassment and discredit campaigns managed by the Ecuadorian government against local journalists, media outlets and the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights.\n\nIn 2011, along with other Internet activists and researchers, Pedro Noel started the project TheGlobalSquare in partnership with TU Delft and its project Tribler. The social network is focused on attack and censorship resilient P2P information broadcasting and social systems.\n\nAlong with Santiago Carrion, Noel founded the news portal EuropeanRevolution.net , a portal conceived as an informative platform for activists, having as first goal to translate into English what was happening with the 15 May movement and in the squares occupations around Europe in order to expand its impact worldwide.\n\nThis led Noel to collaborate with TakeTheSquare.net \n\nNoel and other were the responsible for the worldwide online campaign which culminated in the global day of action on October 15th 2011 in more than 950 cities in 82 countries and its main website 15October.net .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55286039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55286039", "title": "Polish-Studies.Interdisciplinary", "text": "Polish-Studies.Interdisciplinary\n\nPolish-Studies.Interdisciplinary (Pol-Int) is a free online platform for information on and international exchange in the field of Polish studies. The platform was launched in 2014 and serves as a tool for a growing interdisciplinary community of scholars worldwide to promote their own research and publications in Polish studies. Users can publish reviews, share information about conferences, events, and career opportunities as well as connect and engage in discussions on current issues. Pol-Int is headed by Dagmara Jajeśniak-Quast and based at the Center for Interdisciplinary Polish Studies (ZIP) at the European University Viadrina in Frankfurt (Oder) and at the Collegium Polonicum in Słubice. The platform is co-financed by the Foundation for Polish-German Cooperation, the Polish-German Foundation for Science, the European University Viadrina and the European Regional Development Fund.\n\nPol-Int offers up-to-date information on Polish studies worldwide: publications, journals and articles, reviews, job offers (including scholarships and grants), events, conference reports, and calls for papers. Anyone interested in the field of Polish studies can register, set up an individual profile, as well as publish and obtain information, share and promote their own research projects, and find project partners. Thus, Pol-Int serves as a networking tool for scholars dealing with Poland past and present, its culture, society, economy, and so forth.\n\nAll posts on the platform are further disseminated through a customizable newsletter. The platform is based on and prospers from the commitment and active participation of its academic community.\n\nIn 2016, Pol-Int launched the academic blog “Salon” – a separate space within the platform to discuss current pressing issues in Poland, to debate them at expert meetings, such as panel discussions, and to later publish the results in articles, reviews and interviews online. The “Salon” is meant to bridge the gap between the traditional analogue and the digital sphere of contemporary research, in order to promote exchange between both realms.\n\nThe editorial board is based in Frankfurt (Oder). Thanks to an expanding cooperation with more than 100 voluntary specialist editors from over 25 academic disciplines who peer-review texts before publication, Pol-Int publishes reviews in Polish, English and German. The editorial board reviews more than 150 recently published monographs or anthologies and academic articles per year and coordinates the workflow with the specialist editors and reviewers. All publications on Pol-Int are required and certified to maintain the level of renowned academic journals.\n\nThe platform is supported by numerous academic partner institutions from Poland, Germany, the USA, and the UK:\n\n"}
{"id": "4199884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4199884", "title": "Right To Play", "text": "Right To Play\n\nRight To Play is a global organization that attempts to teach children in need with educational games. It was founded in 2000 by Olympic gold medalist Johann Olav Koss, Right To Play's programs are facilitated by more than 14,900 local volunteer coaches and more than 620 international staff.\n\nWorking in both the humanitarian and development context, Right To Play builds local capacity by training community leaders as coaches to deliver its programs in 18 countries affected by war, poverty, and disease in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and North America. Right To Play is headquartered in Toronto, Canada and has national offices in Canada, Germany, Norway, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. The national offices raise funds, build awareness for Right To Play programs and advocate for play based learning.\n\nBetween 1994 and 2000, Right to Play, formerly Olympic Aid, continued to raise funds for children in disadvantaged situations, building on the momentum of subsequent Olympic Games. In 1996, Olympic Aid formed a partnership with UNICEF and raised $13 million USD prior to and during the Games in Atlanta. The funds assisted UNICEF in vaccinating approximately 12.2 million children and more than 800,000 women.\n\nThis vaccination effort was extraordinary as it resulted in temporary Olympic Truces in Afghanistan and the Kurdish region in northern Iraq. All fighting stopped in the regions so the UNICEF staff could safely immunize the children and women of these areas.\n\nWith its incorporation in late 2000, Olympic Aid (which became Right To Play) made the transition from “fundraising vehicle” to implementing Non-Governmental Organization (NGO). In March 2001, the first sport and play programs began in refugee communities in Angola and Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nDuring the 2002 Olympic Winter Games in Salt Lake City, Olympic Aid hosted a Roundtable Forum entitled “Healthier, Safer, Stronger: Using Sport for Development to build a brighter future for children worldwide”. United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan gave the keynote address while global leaders in health, sport and development participated in a moderated discussion of the role of sport in relation to four development issues: vaccination, tobacco-free sport, HIV and AIDS prevention and the rehabilitation of refugees. With participants including Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Dr. Jacques Rogge, President of the International Olympic Committee, the Olympic Aid Roundtable placed Sport for Development firmly on the UN agenda.\n\nIn October 2008, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the Vancouver Organizing Committee for the 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games (VANOC) announced that Right To Play would be banned from an official role at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. The two committees cited sponsorship conflicts as the reason behind the ban, identifying Right To Play sponsors such as Canon, Scotiabank, and Mitsubishi as competitors to Olympic sponsors Kodak, Royal Bank of Canada, and General Motors. Right To Play had been present in an official role at every Summer and Winter Olympics since 2004, and since 1994 as Olympic Aid.\n\n"}
{"id": "35722530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35722530", "title": "Rijnlands Lyceum Foundation", "text": "Rijnlands Lyceum Foundation\n\nThe Rijnlands Lyceum Foundation is an educational organisation in the Netherlands encompassing seven different schools offering both primary and secondary education. The foundation is based in Wassenaar. The executive director of the organisation is Dr. Maarten Knoester (since 2008), the chairman of the supervisory board is Frans Weisglas (since 2010), former chairman of the Lower House of the Dutch Parliament. As chairman of the supervisory board Mr Weisglas succeeded Hans Dijkstal, former vice-prime minister of the Netherlands.\n\nThe organisation comnprises eight schools:\n\nThe first three schools have three levels of secondary education: MAVO, HAVO, and VWO. They also offer bilingual education, in English and Dutch. In addition Rijnlands Lyceum Oegstgeest has an international department offering the MYP and IB DP. The International School of The Hague is an international primary school and an international secondary school, offering the IPC, the MYP and the IB DP programmes. The European School The Hague opened in 2012 for primary education and 2014 for secondary education, and serves the children of people working in The Hague at, for example, agencies of the European Union. The Eerste Nederlandse Montessori School is a regular Dutch primary school based in The Hague.\n"}
{"id": "11657977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11657977", "title": "Science and technology in Argentina", "text": "Science and technology in Argentina\n\nThe most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine, nuclear physics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country's main economic activities. According to the World Bank, Argentine exports in high-technology are products with high R&D intensity, such as in aerospace, computers, pharmaceuticals, scientific instruments, and electrical machinery.\nBenefiting from Latin America's highest literacy rates since shortly after President Domingo Faustino Sarmiento made primary education universally available in the 1860s and 1870s, Argentine researchers and professionals at home and abroad continue to enjoy a high standing in their fields. Argentine Bernardo Houssay was the first Latin American awarded with a Nobel Prize in sciences. Educated in a National University, Houssay went on to establish Argentina's National Research Council, a centerpiece in Argentine scientific and technological development, fifty years on. Many other Argentines have contributed to scientific development around the world, though sometimes having to emigrate to do so. Probably for that, the Argentine education is referred as the \"Latin American docta\" (in Spanish: \"La docta Latinoamericana\"), which originates from the Latin \"docta\" (learned).\n\nDespite its modest budget and numerous setbacks, academics and the sciences in Argentina have enjoyed an international respect since the turn of the 1900s, when Dr. Luis Agote devised the first safe and effective means of blood transfusion as well as René Favaloro, who was a pioneer in the improvement of the bypass surgery . Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prize laureates; and has three Nobel Prize winners in the sciences: Bernardo Houssay in Physiology or Medicine in 1947, Luis Federico Leloir in Chemistry in 1970, and César Milstein in Physiology or Medicine in 1984. Dr. Domingo Liotta created the first artificial heart in 1969, revolutionizing the heart transplant field.\n\nThey have also contributed to bioscience in efforts like the Human Genome Project, where Argentine scientists have successfully mapped the genome of a living being, a world first. Argentina has its own satellite programme, nuclear power station designs (4th generation) and public nuclear energy company INVAP, which provides several countries with nuclear reactors.\nOther projects are focusing on IS, nanotechnology, biotechnology, helicopters, farming machinery and military defensive systems. Established in 1991, the CONAE has since launched 8 indigenous built satellites successfully, AMSAT, MuSat, SAC-B, SAC-A, SAC-C, SAC-D/Aquarius, ARSAT I and ARSAT-2. In June 2009, secured an agreement with the European Space Agency on for the installation of a 35-m diameter antenna and other mission support facilities at the Pierre Auger Observatory. The facility will contribute to numerous ESA space probes, as well as CONAE's own, domestic research projects. Chosen from 20 potential sites and one of only three such ESA installations in the world, the new antenna will create a triangulation which will allow the ESA to ensure mission coverage around the clock.\n\nSocial sciences have a particularly strong tradition in Argentina. Home to 122 think tanks specializing in public policy and economics issues, Argentina ranks fifth in the number of these institutions worldwide.\n\nIn April 2009, Dr. Sandra Díaz, researcher from the Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biologia Vegetal (IMBIV - NU of C), was elected as a foreign associate member to the National Academy of Sciences (U.S.A.) in recognition of her outstanding work on climate change, being the first Hispanic woman to achieve this honor. Moreover, Dr. Diaz won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 as a member of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.\nCurrently there are further outstanding Argentine researchers in the mentioned institution as Alberto Carlos Frasch (NU of SAM), Armando Parodi (NU of SAM - Leloir Institute), and Francisco de la Cruz (Balseiro Institute - NU of Cu).\n\nAmong the public institutions devoted to research and development in Argentina are:\n\nFour out of five Argentine adults have completed grade school, over a third have completed their secondary education and one in nine Argentine adults have college degrees. Likewise, Argentina has the highest rate of university students in Latin America, besides having more within the southern hemisphere with professors and institutions awarded prestigious prizes and fellowships from philanthropic institutions like the John S. Guggenheim Foundation awards or the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, to name a few. Official sources recently reported roughly 1,500,000 college students within the Argentine University System; this represents the highest rate - relative to its total population - of academic students in Latin America and exceeds the ratio in many developed countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10126321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10126321", "title": "Seen Art?", "text": "Seen Art?\n\nSeen Art? is a children's picture book written by Jon Scieszka and illustrated by Lane Smith. It was published in 1995 by Viking Press, and is aimed at a reading age of 4 to 8.\n\nIt depicts a child's view of the art collection at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City via a storyline that follows a young boy's quest for his friend called Art. Asking people whether they have seen Art, and where Art is, leads him on a journey around the Museum. At the end of the book he finds his friend waiting for him outside the Museum.\n\nThe book has been published in Spanish translation as \"En Busca de Arte\".\n"}
{"id": "8953781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8953781", "title": "Seminario de Lima", "text": "Seminario de Lima\n\nThe Seminario de Lima or Seminary of Lima Santo Toribio de Mogrovejo (founded 7 December 1590) is the major seminary for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Lima and provides training for those studying for the priesthood. Headquartered in Lima, Peru, it can be considered one of the oldest seminaries on the American continent; it was founded on December 7, 1590, by Archbishop Toribio de Mogrovejo.\n\nThe seminary receives young people who want to be priests. Priests graduating from the seminary serve the Roman Catholic Church under the jurisdiction of the Archbishop.\n\nThe seminary includes several structures, including several chapels–Chapel of the Seminar, Chapel San José, Chapel of Saint John Maria Vianney, and the central chapel, as well as several libraries including one for history, philosophy and theology.\n\nThe seminary is under the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of Lima, Cardinal Juan Luis Cipriani. Its rector is José Luis Méndez Jiménez, and its spiritual leaders are Javier Pereda Peña and Alfredo Pérez Bustillo.\n"}
{"id": "48680996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48680996", "title": "Sink school", "text": "Sink school\n\nA sink school is a school that is noted for its underachievement. \n\nThe reported causes for the emergence of sink schools vary. It includes admission codes wherein some schools get a privileged access to the most gifted potential students, funding inadequacies, or unsuitable curriculum.\n\n"}
{"id": "5619479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5619479", "title": "Subversive Proposal", "text": "Subversive Proposal\n\nThe \"Subversive Proposal\" was an Internet posting by Stevan Harnad on June 27 1994 (presented at the 1994 Network Services Conference in London ) calling on all authors of \"esoteric\" research writings to archive their articles for free for everyone online (in anonymous FTP archives or websites). It initiated a series of online exchanges, many of which were collected and published as a book in 1995. This led to the creation in 1997 of Cogprints, an open access archive for self-archived articles in the cognitive sciences and in 1998 to the creation of the American Scientist Open Access Forum (initially called the \"September98 Forum\" until the founding of the Budapest Open Access Initiative which first coined the term \"Open Access\"). The Subversive Proposal also led to the development of the GNU EPrints software used for creating OAI-compliant open access institutional repositories.\n\nThe proposal was updated gradually across the years, as summarized in the American Scientist Open Access Forum on its 10th anniversary.\nA retrospective was written by Richard Poynder.\nA self-critique\nwas posted on its 15th anniversary in 2009. An online interview of Steven Harnard was conducted by Richard Poynder on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the subversive proposal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19910086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19910086", "title": "Sudan Library", "text": "Sudan Library\n\nThe Sudan Library is a section of the library of the University of Khartoum. It serves as the national library of Sudan and is also a university research library. \n\nIt is a depository of all Sudanese publications since a legal deposit act came into effect in 1966. The library also collects works of Sudanese authors and works about Sudan published abroad. Its catalogue represents a retrospective national bibliography.\n\n"}
{"id": "50669538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50669538", "title": "Suhaib Saqib", "text": "Suhaib Saqib\n\nSuhaib Saqib is a British born activist and Founder of the international organisation Movement for Peace. He is known for being an outspoken feminist by highlighting the importance of recognising the rights of women.\n\nIn 2015, at the age of 17, Suhaib was nominated for the International Children's Peace Prize.\n\n1. \"Gang rape of toddler in India just one incident of many in the past week alone, activists say\" Independent. 19 October 2015. Retrieved 1 June 2016.<br>\n2. \"MPs recognise teenager's campaign for world peace\". BBC. 11 February 2014. Retrieved 1 June 2016.<br>\n3. \"Derby teenager Suhaib Saqib's peace campaign wins praise from 15 MPs\". Derby Telegraph. 3 February 2014. Retrieved 1 June 2016.<br>\n4. \"Derby student who leads movement for world peace condemns Pakistan terrorism\". Derby Telegraph. 23 December 2014. Retrieved 1 June 2016.<br>\n5. \"Derby schoolboy Suhaib Saqib urges world unity to thwart terrorist outrages such as Charli Hebdo\". Derby Telegraph. 12 January 2015. Retrieved 1 June 2016.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "36645322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36645322", "title": "Swami Kuvalayananda", "text": "Swami Kuvalayananda\n\nSwami Kuvalayananda (30 August 1883 – 18 April 1966) was a researcher and educator who is primarily known for his pioneering research into the scientific foundations of yoga. He started scientific research on yoga in 1920, and published the first scientific journal specifically devoted to studying yoga, Yoga Mimamsa, in 1924. Most of his research took place at the Kaivalyadhama Health and Yoga Research Center which he also founded in 1924. His influence on modern yoga has been \"profound\" \n\nSwami Kuvalayananda was born Jagannatha Ganesa Gune in a traditional Karhade Brahmin family in the village Dhaboi in Gujarat state, India.. Kuvalayananda’s father, Sri Ganesa Gune, was a teacher and his mother, Srimati Saraswati, a housewife. The family was not rich and had to depend for some time on public and private charity. Being from a poor family, Kuvalayananda had to struggle hard for his education. Nevertheless, at his matriculation in 1903, he was awarded the Jagannath Shankarsheth Sanskrit Scholarship to study at Baroda College where he graduated in 1910.\n\nDuring his student days, he was influenced by political leaders like Sri Aurobindo, who was working as a young lecturer at the university, and Lokmanya Tilak's Indian Home Rule Movement. His national idealism and patriotic fervor prompted him to devote his life to the service of humanity. During this time, he took up a vow of lifelong celibacy.\n\nComing into contact with the Indian masses, many of whom were illiterate and superstitious, he realized the value of education, and this influenced him to help organize the Khandesh Education Society at Amalner, where ultimately he became the Principal of the National College, in 1916. The National College was closed down by the British Government in 1920 due to the spirit of Indian nationalism prevalent at the institution. From 1916 to 1923, he taught Indian culture studies to high school and college students.\n\nKuvalayananda's first guru was Rajaratna Manikrao, a professor at the Jummadada Vyayamshala in Baroda. From 1907 to 1910, Manikrao trained Kuvalayananda in the Indian System of Physical Education which Kuvalayananda advocated throughout his life. As early as the 1930s, Kuvalayananda trained large groups of yoga teachers as a way to spread physical education in India \n\nIn 1919, he met the Bengali yogin, Paramahamsa Madhavdasji, who had settled at Malsar, near Baroda, on the banks of the Narmada river. The insight into Yogic discipline, under the guidance of Madhavdasji, greatly influenced Kuvalayananda's career. \nThough Kuvalayananda was spiritually inclined and idealistic, he was, at the same time, a strict rationalist. So, he sought scientific explanations for the various psychophysical effects of Yoga he experienced. In 1920-21, he investigated the effects of some of the Yogic practices on the human body with the help of some of his students in a laboratory at Baroda Hospital. His subjective experience, coupled with the results of these scientific experiments, convinced him that the ancient system of Yoga, if understood through the modern scientific experimental system, could help society. The idea of discovering the scientific basis behind these yogic processes became his life's work.\n\nIn 1924, Kuvalayananda founded the Kaivalyadhama Health and Yoga Research Center in Lonavla in order to provide a laboratory for his scientific study of Yoga. At the same time, he also started the first scientific journal devoted to scientific investigation into yoga, Yoga Mimamsa.\n\nThe Sanskrit word mimamsa means \"investigation.\" Yoga Mimamsa, has been published quarterly every year since its founding and was scheduled to be indexed by EBSCO in 2012.\n\nIn Yoga Mimamsa, Swami Kuvalayananda and others published the first scientific experiments on yogic techniques, such as the effect of asana, shatkarma, bandhas, and pranayama on humans.\n\nThese experiments impressed some Western researchers who came to the Kaivalyadhama Health and Yoga Research Center to learn more. Dr. Josephine Rathbone, a professor of health and physical education, visited from Columbia University in 1937 to 1938. K.T. Behanan, a doctoral candidate from Yale University, wrote his dissertation on yoga after visiting in the late 1931, and staying for a year. In 1957, the physicians Wenger, from the University of California, and Bagchi, from the University of Michigan, spent a month and a half working there. Research and collaboration continues to this day.\n\nBesides his yoga research, Swami Kuvalayananda was a tireless promotor of his causes, and he spent much of his later years opening up new branches of Kaivalyadhama and enhancing the main Kaivalyadhama campus in Lonavla.\n\nIn 1932, he opened the Mumbai branch of Kaivalyadhama at Santacruz. It was relocated to Marine Drive (Chowpatty) in 1936, and named the Ishvardas Chunnilal Yogic Health Center. Its mandate is the prevention and cure of various diseases through Yoga. In this same period, at Kanakesvara near Alibaug, a Kaivalyadhama Spiritual Center in Colaba was opened.\n\nIn 1943, he opened another branch of Kaivalyadhama in Rajkot, Saurashtra, with spiritual practices as its main focus.\n\nIn 1944 at Lonavla, the Kaivalyadhama Shriman Madhava Yoga Mandir Samiti was founded to pursue scientific and literary research in Yoga\n\nThe Gordhandas Seksaria College of Yoga and Cultural Synthesis was established in 1951 at Lonavla to prepare young people spiritually and intellectually for selfless service to humanity.\n\nIn 1961, he opened the Srimati Amolak Devi Tirathram Gupta Yogic Hospital for the treatment of chronic functional disorders with the help of Yogic techniques.\n\nSome of his pupils, like Padma Shri awardee, S. P. Nimbalkar, have become known yoga teachers in their own rights.\n"}
{"id": "31973316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31973316", "title": "UnCollege", "text": "UnCollege\n\nUnCollege is a social movement that aims to change the notion that going to college is the only path to success. UnCollege was founded by Dale J. Stephens in 2011.\n\nStephens is a self-described \"elementary school dropout\", as he was homeschooled with emphasis on real-world experience for the majority of his childhood. He briefly attended Hendrix College. While there, Stephens had a night-long discussion with a friend regarding the disconnect between the theoretical subject matter taught in college and its real world applications. This discussion would become the basis for UnCollege, which Stephens founded in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Stephens also applied for the Thiel Fellowship, a program founded by Peter Thiel which grants fellows US$100,000 to forgo college for two years and focus on their passions. After his initial proposal was rejected, Stephens was encouraged to reapply in pursuit of his work as an educational futurist through UnCollege. His second application succeeded and he was in the first batch of Thiel Fellows.\n\nUnCollege provides resources for students that wish to define their own educational paths, whether in or outside of traditional higher education models. The site is inspired by Stephens' background in unschooling and his frustrations with the college experience. He states that his goal with UnCollege is not to take down universities, but to encourage more people to consider the opportunity cost of attending college.\n\nUnCollege features resources, forums, and workshops designed to help students, both in and out of college, gain useful skills. The site also hosts the UnCollege Manifesto, a 25-page document written by Stephens that covers subjects like \"The value (or lack thereof) of a college degree\" and \"Twelve steps to self-directed learning.\" Additionally, the site matches students with mentors, and encourages students to collaborate and learn outside of the classroom.\n\nThe UnCollege movement is founded on these principles:\n\n\nThe UnCollege movement believes that college, while not itself adverse, needs significant changes because:\n\n\nThrough his work with UnCollege, Stephens was named as one of Splashlife's 30 Under 30: Social Media Titans. UnCollege has been profiled in world publications like CNN, \"The New York Times\", \"The Asia Times\", ABC, \"Fast Company\", Mashable, NPR, CBS, \"Inc.\", TechCrunch, and \"The Huffington Post\". The famous disruptor says overpriced universities hold back innovation, and wants to rewire education to his liking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "662547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=662547", "title": "United States of America Mathematical Olympiad", "text": "United States of America Mathematical Olympiad\n\nThe United States of America Mathematical Olympiad (USAMO) is a highly selective high school mathematics competition held annually in the United States. Since its debut in 1972, it has served as the final round of the AMC series of contests. The United States of America Junior Mathematical Olympiad (USAJMO) was introduced in 2010 to recognize top scorers based on their AMC10-based index. Qualifying for the USAMO is considered one of the most prestigious awards for high school students in the United States. Top scorers on the USAMO are invited to the Mathematical Olympiad Summer Program to represent the United States at the International Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nIn order to be eligible to take the USAMO, a participant must be either a U.S. citizen or a legal resident of the United States or Canada. Only U.S. residents and citizens may join the American IMO team. In addition, all participants, regardless of geographic location, must meet qualification indices determined by previous rounds of the AMC contests. Entry to the USAMO is by invitation only.\n\nThe USAMO was created in 1972 at the initiative of Nura D. Turner and Samuel L. Greitzer, and served as the next round to the AHSME until 1982. In 1983, the American Invitational Mathematics Examination was introduced as a bridge between the AHSME and USAMO. In 2010, the USAMO split into the USAMO and USAJMO.\n\nThe USAMO (and the USAJMO since 2010) is restricted to approximately 500 (250 prior to 2006) participants combined each year. To keep this quota constant, the AMC Committee uses a selection process, which has seen a number of revisions in the exam's history.\n\nAMC 12 based indices are determined by taking AMC 12 Score + 10*(AIME Score). \nAMC 10 based indices are determined by taking AMC 10 Score + 10*(AIME Score). \nCutoffs, based on AMC 12 indices, are determined so that approximately 260-270 students qualify for the USAMO.\nCutoffs, based on AMC 10 indices, are determined so that approximately 230-240 students qualify for the USAJMO.\nIf a student took the AMC 10 and 12 (i.e. AMC 10A and 12B or AMC 12A and 10B) and qualified for both the USAMO and USAJMO, the student must take the USAMO.\n\nSince 2011, the goal has been to select approximately 500 students total for the two Olympiads where 270 students qualify for the USA Mathematical Olympiad (USAMO) and 230 students qualify for the 2011 USA Junior Mathematical Olympiad (USAJMO). Selection for the USAMO and USAJMO are made according to the following rules:\n\n1. U.S. citizens and students residing in the United States and Canada (with qualifying scores) are eligible to take the USAMO and USAJMO.\n\n2. Selection to the USAMO will be based on the USAMO index which is defined as AMC 12 Score + 10 * AIME Score. Selection to the USAJMO will be based on the USAJMO index which is defined as AMC 10 Score + 10 * AIME Score.\n\n3. Only AMC 12 A or AMC 12 B takers who are U.S. citizens and students residing in the United States and Canada will be eligible for the USAMO.\n\n4. Only AMC 10 A or AMC 10 B takers who are U.S. citizens and students residing in the United States and Canada will be eligible for the USAJMO. This automatically limits Junior Math Olympiad participation to 10th graders and below. Students who take ONLY the AMC 10 test, whether AMC 10 A or AMC 10 B or both, will NOT be eligible for the USAMO regardless of their score on the AMC 10 or the AIME.\n\n5. The approximately 260-270 individual students with the top AMC 12 based USAMO indices will be invited to take the USAMO. These indices will be selected from the pool of AMC 12 takers with an AIME score.\n\n6. The approximately 230-240 individual students with the top AMC 10 based USAMO indices will be invited to take the USAJMO. These indices will be selected from the pool of AMC 10 takers with an AIME score after removing students who also took an AMC 12 test and qualified for the USAMO in rule 5. This means young students MUST take the USAMO if they qualify through an AMC 12 index.\n\n7. We will select the student with the numerically largest index, whether AMC 10 based USAJMO index or AMC 12 based USAMO index, from each US state not already represented in either the USAMO or the USAJMO. The student will be invited to the USAMO if the numerically highest index in the state is AMC 12 based, and invited to the USAJMO if the index is AMC 10 based.\n\nStarting in 2010, the USA Mathematical Olympiad is split into two parts. The USA Mathematical Olympiad will be administered to approximately 270 students, mostly selected from top ranking AMC12 participants. The AMC10 only participants will take part in USA Junior Mathematical Olympiad.\n\n1.Selection to the USAMO and JMO will be based on the USAMO index which is defined as\nAMC score + 10 * AIME score.\n\n2.Only AMC 12A or AMC 12B takers are eligible for the USAMO (with the slight exception mentioned in item 5 below).\n\n3.Only AMC 10A and AMC 10B takers are eligible for the JMO. (This automatically limits Junior Math Olympiad participation to 10th graders and below.)\n\n4.Approximately the top 260 AMC12 based USAMO indices will be invited to the USAMO.\n\n5.In order to find unrecognized young talent, AMC 10 takers who score 11 or more on the AIME will be invited to the USAMO. (In 2008 and 2009 this was 5 or 6 students).\n\n6.Select the top index from any state not already represented in the USAMO.\n\n7.Approximately the top 220-230 students with AMC10 based USAMO indices and not already selected to the USAMO via an AMC12 based index will be invited to the JMO.\n\n\"Source: \"\n\nSelection for the USAMO will be made according to the following rules:\n\n1. The goal is to select about 500 of the top scorers from this\nyear's AIME and AMC 12A, AMC 12B, AMC 10A and AMC\n10B contests to participate in the USAMO.\n\n2. Selection will be based on the USAMO index which is defined\nas 10 times the student’s AIME score plus the student’s score\non the AMC 12 or the AMC 10.\n\n3. The first selection will be the approximately 330 highest\nUSAMO indices of students taking the AMC 12A or AMC\n12B contest.\n\n4. The lowest AIME score among those 330 first selected will\ndetermine a floor value. The second selection of approximately\n160 USAMO participants will be among students in\nthe 10th grade and below who received an AIME score at\nleast as high as the floor value. If there are more than 160\nyoung students with a score above the floor value, then approximately\n160 students will be selected from this group by\nusing the USAMO index.\n\n5 The student with the highest USAMO index from each state,\nterritory, or U.S. possession not already represented in the\nselection of the first and second groups will be invited to\ntake the USAMO.\n\n6. To adjust for variations in contest difficulty, the number of\nstudents selected from A & B contests will be proportional\nto the number of students who took the A & B Contests.\n\n7. In advising young students (in grade 10 or below) who desire\nto be selected for the USAMO whether to take the AMC 12\ncontest or the AMC 10 contest, please be aware of the following\nfacts:\n\na. In 2007, among 506 students invited to take the USAMO,\n229 were in 10th grade and below. Those students had\nscored 6 or greater on the AIME.\n\nb. Among those 229 students, 87 had their AIME qualifying\nhigh score based on the AMC 12 and 142 had their AIME\nqualifying high score based on the AMC 10.\n\nc. In 2007, among 8,312 students who took the AIME, 2,696\nwere in grades 10 and below. Of those, 998 qualified\nfor the AIME from the AMC 12 and 1,698 qualified from\nthe AMC 10.\n\nBeginning in 2006, the USAMO was expanded to include approximately 500 students (around 430 were actually invited, read below) due to a proposal and sponsorship from the Art of Problem Solving website:\n\"Source: American Mathematics Competitions\"\n\n\nSince 2002, the following set of guidelines have been adopted for use in determining each year's USAMO participants:\n\n\n\"Source: American Mathematics Competitions\"\n\nPrior to 2001, the following guidelines were used:\n\n\n\"Source: American Mathematics Competitions\"\n\nSince 2002, the USAMO has been a six-question, nine-hour mathematical proof examination spread out over two days. (The IMO uses the same format.) On each day, four and a half hours are given for three questions.\n\nEach question is graded on a scale from 0 to 7, with a score of 7 representing a proof that is mathematically sound. Thus, a perfect score is 42 points. The number of perfect papers each year has varied depending on test difficulty. Regardless, the top 12 scorers are all named contest winners.\n\nThe scale of 0 to 7 goes as follows:\n\nThe test consisted of two three-problem sets. Three hours were given for each set; one set was given in the morning (9:00-12:00), and the other in the afternoon (1:00-4:00).\n\nThe test consisted of five problems to be solved in three and a half hours (earlier, three hours). Each problem was worth 20 points, for a perfect score of 100.\n\nIn most years, students have taken the USAMO at their respective high schools. Prior to 2002, the problems were mailed to the schools in sealed envelopes, not to be opened before the appointed time on the test day. Since 2002, test problems have been posted on the AMC website (see links below) fifteen minutes prior to the official start of the test. Student responses are then faxed back to the AMC office at the end of the testing period.\n\nIn 2002, the Akamai Foundation, as a major sponsor of the American Mathematics Competitions, invited all USAMO participants to take the test at a central event at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts, all expenses paid. In addition, Akamai invited all 2002 USAMO participants who were not high school seniors (approximately 160 students) to take part in an enlarged Mathematical Olympiad Program (also known as \"MOP\") program. Since holding this central event every year would be prohibitively expensive, it has been discontinued. In 2004 and 2005, however, funding was found to send 30 rising freshmen to MOP as well, in a program popularly called \"Red MOP.\"\n\nEach year, the top 12 scorers on the USAMO are considered for selection to the IMO team for the United States. The students are trained at the MOP in Lincoln, Nebraska, and then six are selected to the team. The next approximately 18 high scorers, usually excluding high school seniors, are also invited to MOP.\n\nHere are the subjects on the test in different years by problem number (i.e. what subject each problem was from). Calculus, although allowed, is never required in solutions.\n\n2017:\n2016:\n\n2015:\n2014:\n2013:\n\n2012:\n\n2011:\n\n2010:\n\n2009:\n\n2008:\n\n2007:\n2006:\n\n2005:\n\n2004:\n\n2003:\nHere are the subjects on the test in different years by problem number (i.e. what subject each problem was from). Calculus, although allowed, is never required in solutions.\n2017:\n\n2016:\n\n2015:\n2014:\n2013:\n\n2012:\n\n2011:\n\n2010:\n\nThe Top 12 on the USAMO and USAJMO are named Winners and automatically qualify for Mathematical Olympiad Summer Program (MOP) (except for seniors, who only qualify for the MOP if they were in the Team Selection Test group from the previous year). The remaining spots at MOP are filled via the MOP selection process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2304367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2304367", "title": "Videotelephony", "text": "Videotelephony\n\nVideotelephony comprises the technologies for the reception and transmission of audio-video signals by users at different locations, for communication between people in real-time. A videophone is a telephone with a video display, capable of simultaneous video and audio for communication between people in real-time. Videoconferencing implies the use of this technology for a group or organizational meeting rather than for individuals, in a videoconference. Telepresence may refer either to a high-quality videotelephony system (where the goal is to create the illusion that remote participants are in the same room) or to meetup technology, which goes beyond video into robotics (such as moving around the room or physically manipulating objects). Videoconferencing has also been called \"visual collaboration\" and is a type of groupware.\n\nAt the dawn of its commercial deployment from the 1950s through the 1990s, videotelephony also included \"image phones\" which would exchange still images between units every few seconds over conventional POTS-type telephone lines, essentially the same as slow scan TV systems. The development of advanced video codecs, more powerful CPUs, and high-bandwidth Internet telecommunication services in the late 1990s allowed videophones to provide high quality low-cost colour service between users almost anyplace in the world that the Internet is available.\n\nAlthough not as widely used in everyday communications as audio-only and text communication, useful applications include sign language transmission for deaf and speech-impaired people, distance education, telemedicine, and overcoming mobility issues. It is also used in commercial and corporate settings to facilitate meetings and conferences, typically between parties that already have established relationships. News media organizations have begun to use desktop technologies like Skype to provide higher-quality audio than the phone network, and video links at much lower cost than sending professional equipment or using a professional studio. More popular videotelephony technologies use the Internet rather than the traditional landline phone network, even accounting for modern digital packetized phone network protocols, and even though videotelephony software commonly runs on smartphones.\n\nThe concept of videotelephony was first conceived in the late 1870s in both the United States and Europe, although the basic sciences to permit its very earliest trials would take nearly a half century to be discovered. This was first embodied in the device which came to be known as the video telephone, or videophone, and it evolved from intensive research and experimentation in several telecommunication fields, notably electrical telegraphy, telephony, radio, and television.\n\nSimple analog videophone communication could be established as early as the invention of the television. Such an antecedent usually consisted of two closed-circuit television systems connected via coax cable or radio. An example of that was the German Reich Postzentralamt (post office) video telephone network serving Berlin and several German cities via coaxial cables between 1936 and 1940.\n\nThe development of video technology started in the latter half of the 1920s in the United Kingdom and the United States, spurred notably by John Logie Baird and AT&T's Bell Labs. This occurred in part, at least with AT&T, to serve as an adjunct supplementing the use of the telephone. A number of organizations believed that videotelephony would be superior to plain voice communications. However video technology was to be deployed in analog television broadcasting long before it could become practical—or popular—for videophones.\nDuring the first manned space flights, NASA used two radio-frequency (UHF or VHF) video links, one in each direction. TV channels routinely use this type of videotelephony when reporting from distant locations. The news media were to become regular users of mobile links to satellites using specially equipped trucks, and much later via special satellite videophones in a briefcase.\n\nThis technique was very expensive, though, and could not be used for applications such as telemedicine, distance education, and business meetings. Attempts at using normal telephony networks to transmit slow-scan video, such as the first systems developed by AT&T Corporation, first researched in the 1950s, failed mostly due to the poor picture quality and the lack of efficient video compression techniques. The greater 1 MHz bandwidth and 6 Mbit/s bit rate of the AT&T Picturephone in the 1970s also did not achieve commercial success, mostly due to its high cost, but also due to a lack of network effect—with only a few hundred Picturephones in the world, users had extremely few contacts they could actually call to, and interoperability with other videophone systems would not exist for decades.\n\nVideotelephony developed in parallel with conventional voice telephone systems from the mid-to-late 20th century. Very expensive videoconferencing systems rapidly evolved throughout the 1980s and 1990s from proprietary equipment, software, and network requirements to standards-based technologies that were available for anyone to purchase at a reasonable cost.\n\nOnly in the late 20th century with the advent of powerful video codecs combined with high-speed Internet broadband and ISDN service did videotelephony become a practical technology for regular use.\n\nIn the 1980s, digital telephony transmission networks became possible, such as with ISDN networks, assuring a minimum bit rate (usually 128 kilobits/s) for compressed video and audio transmission. During this time, there was also research into other forms of digital video and audio communication. Many of these technologies, such as the Media space, are not as widely used today as videoconferencing but were still an important area of research. The first dedicated systems started to appear as ISDN networks were expanding throughout the world. One of the first commercial videoconferencing systems sold to companies came from PictureTel Corp., which had an Initial Public Offering in November, 1984.\n\nIn 1984, Concept Communication in the United States replaced the then-100 pound, US$100,000 computers necessary for teleconferencing, with a $12,000 circuit board that doubled the video frame rate from 15 up to 30 frames per second, and which reduced the equipment to the size of a circuit board fitting into standard personal computers. The company also secured a patent for a codec for full-motion videoconferencing, first demonstrated at AT&T Bell Labs in 1986.\n\nVideoconferencing systems throughout the 1990s rapidly evolved from very expensive proprietary equipment, software, and network requirements to a standards-based technology readily available to the general public at a reasonable cost.\n\nFinally, in the 1990s, Internet Protocol-based videoconferencing became possible, and more efficient video compression technologies were developed, permitting desktop, or personal computer (PC)-based videoconferencing. In 1992 CU-SeeMe was developed at Cornell by Tim Dorcey et al. In 1995 the first public videoconference between North America and Africa took place, linking a technofair in San Francisco with a techno-rave and cyberdeli in Cape Town. At the 1998 Winter Olympics opening ceremony in Nagano, Japan, Seiji Ozawa conducted the Ode to Joy from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony simultaneously across five continents in near-real time.\n\nWhile videoconferencing technology was initially used primarily within internal corporate communication networks, one of the first community service usages of the technology started in 1992 through a unique partnership with PictureTel and IBM Corporations which at the time were promoting a jointly developed desktop based videoconferencing product known as the PCS/1. Over the next 15 years, Project DIANE (Diversified Information and Assistance Network) grew to utilize a variety of videoconferencing platforms to create a multi-state cooperative public service and distance education network consisting of several hundred schools, libraries, science museums, zoos and parks, and many other community oriented organizations.\n\nIn the 2000s, videotelephony was popularized via free Internet services such as Skype and iChat, web plugins and on-line telecommunication programs that promoted low cost, albeit lower-quality, videoconferencing to virtually every location with an Internet connection.\n\nWith the rapid improvements and popularity of the Internet, videotelephony has become widespread through the deployment of video-enabled mobile phones, plus videoconferencing and computer webcams which utilize Internet telephony. In the upper echelons of government, business, and commerce, telepresence technology, an advanced form of videoconferencing, has helped reduce the need to travel.\n\nIn May 2005, the first high definition video conferencing systems, produced by LifeSize Communications, were displayed at the Interop trade show in Las Vegas, Nevada, able to provide video at 30 frames per second with a 1280 by 720 display resolution. Polycom introduced its first high definition video conferencing system to the market in 2006. As of the 2010s, high definition resolution for videoconferencing became a popular feature, with most major suppliers in the videoconferencing market offering it.\n\nTechnological developments by videoconferencing developers in the 2010s have extended the capabilities of video conferencing systems beyond the boardroom for use with hand-held mobile devices that combine the use of video, audio and on-screen drawing capabilities broadcasting in real-time over secure networks, independent of location. Mobile collaboration systems now allow people in previously unreachable locations, such as workers on an off-shore oil rig, the ability to view and discuss issues with colleagues thousands of miles away. Traditional videoconferencing system manufacturers have begun providing mobile applications as well, such as those that allow for live and still image streaming.\n\nThe highest ever video call (other than those from aircraft and spacecraft) took place on May 19, 2013 when British adventurer Daniel Hughes used a smartphone with a BGAN satellite modem to make a videocall to the BBC from the summit of Mount Everest, at above sea level.\n\nVideotelephony can be categorized by its functionality, that is to its intended purpose, and also by its method of transmissions.\n\nVideophones were the earliest form of videotelephony, dating back to initial tests in 1927 by AT&T. During the late 1930s the post offices of several European governments established public videophone services for person-to-person communications utilizing dual cable circuit telephone transmission technology. In the present day standalone videophones and UMTS video-enabled mobile phones are usually used on a person-to-person basis.\n\nVideoconferencing saw its earliest use with AT&T's Picturephone service in the early 1970s. Transmissions were analog over short distances, but converted to digital forms for longer calls, again using telephone transmission technology. Popular corporate video-conferencing systems in the present day have migrated almost exclusively to digital ISDN and IP transmission modes due to the need to convey the very large amounts of data generated by their cameras and microphones. These systems are often intended for use in conference mode, that is by many people in several different locations, all of whom can be viewed by every participant at each location.\n\nTelepresence systems are a newer, more advanced subset of videoconferencing systems, meant to allow higher degrees of video and audio fidelity. Such high-end systems are typically deployed in corporate settings.\n\nMobile collaboration systems are another recent development, combining the use of video, audio, and on-screen drawing capabilities using newest generation hand-held electronic devices broadcasting over secure networks, enabling multi-party conferencing in real-time, independent of location.\n\nA more recent technology encompassing these functions is TV cams. TV cams enable people to make video “phone” calls using video calling services, like Skype on their TV, without using a PC connection. TV cams are specially designed video cameras that feed images in real time to another TV camera or other compatible computing devices like smartphones, tablets and computers.\n\n\"Webcams\" are popular, relatively low cost devices which can provide live video and audio streams via personal computers, and can be used with many software clients for both video calls and videoconferencing.\n\nEach of the systems has its own advantages and disadvantages, including video quality, capital cost, degrees of sophistication, transmission capacity requirements, and cost of use.\n\nFrom the least to the most expensive systems:\n\nComputer security experts have shown that poorly configured or inadequately supervised videoconferencing system can permit an easy \"virtual\" entry by computer hackers and criminals into company premises and corporate boardrooms, via their own videoconferencing systems.\n\nFor over a century, futurists have envisioned a future where telephone conversations will take place as actual face-to-face encounters with video as well as audio. Sometimes it is simply not possible or practical to have face-to-face meetings with two or more people. Sometimes a telephone conversation or conference call is adequate. Other times, e-mail exchanges are adequate. However, videoconferencing adds another possible alternative, and can be considered when:\n\nSome observers argue that three outstanding issues have prevented videoconferencing from becoming a widely adopted form of communication, despite the ubiquity of videoconferencing-capable systems.\n\n\nThese are some of the reasons many systems are often used for internal corporate use only, as they are less likely to result in lost sales. One alternative to companies lacking dedicated facilities is the rental of videoconferencing-equipped meeting rooms in cities around the world. Clients can book rooms and turn up for the meeting, with all technical aspects being prearranged and support being readily available if needed. The issue of eye-contact may be solved with advancing technology, including smartphones which have the screen and camera in essentially the same place. The ubiquity of smartphones, tablet computers, and computers with built-in audio and webcams in developed countries obviates the need to buy expensive hardware.\n\nThe core technology used in a videotelephony system is digital compression of audio and video streams in real time. The hardware or software that performs compression is called a codec (coder/decoder). Compression rates of up to 1:500 can be achieved. The resulting digital stream of 1s and 0s is subdivided into labeled packets, which are then transmitted through a digital network of some kind (usually ISDN or IP).\n\nThe other components required for a videoconferencing system include:\n\nThere are basically two kinds of videoconferencing and videophone systems:\n\n\nVideoconferencing systems use two methods to determine which video feed or feeds to display.\n\n\"Continuous Presence\" simply displays all participants at the same time, usually with the exception that the viewer either does not see their own feed, or sees their own feed in miniature.\n\n\"Voice-Activated Switch\" selectively chooses a feed to display at each endpoint, with the goal of showing the person who is currently speaking. This is done by choosing the feed (other than the viewer) which has the loudest audio input (perhaps with some filtering to avoid switching for very short-lived volume spikes). Often if no remote parties are currently speaking, the feed with the last speaker remains on the screen.\n\nAcoustic echo cancellation (AEC) is a processing algorithm that uses the knowledge of audio output to monitor audio input and filter from it noises that echo back after some time delay. If unattended, these echoes can be re-amplified several times, leading to problems including:\n\nEcho cancellation is a processor-intensive task that usually works over a narrow range of sound delays.\n\nVideophones have historically employed a variety of transmission and reception bandwidths, which can be understood as data transmission speeds. The lower the transmission/reception bandwidth, the lower the data transfer rate, resulting in a progressively limited and poorer image quality. Data transfer rates and live video image quality are related, but are also subject to other factors such as data compression techniques. Some early videophones employed very low data transmission rates with a resulting poor video quality.\n\n\"Broadband bandwidth\" is often called \"high-speed\", because it usually has a high rate of data transmission. In general, any connection of 256 kbit/s (0.256 Mbit/s) or greater is more concisely considered broadband Internet. The International Telecommunication Union Standardization Sector (ITU-T) recommendation I.113 has defined broadband as a transmission capacity at 1.5 to 2 Mbit/s. The United States Federal Communications Commission definition of broadband is 25 Mbit/s.\n\nCurrently, adequate video for some purposes becomes possible at data rates lower than the ITU-T broadband definition, with rates of 768 kbit/s and 384 kbit/s used for some video conferencing applications, and rates as low as 100 kbit per second used for videophones using H.264/MPEG-4 AVC compression protocols. The newer MPEG-4 video and audio compression format can deliver high-quality video at 2 Mbit/s, which is at the low end of cable modem and ADSL broadband performance.\n\nThe International Telecommunications Union (ITU) has three umbrellas of standards for videoconferencing:\n\nThe Unified Communications Interoperability Forum (UCIF), a non-profit alliance between communications vendors, launched in May 2010. The organization's vision is to maximize the interoperability of UC based on existing standards. Founding members of UCIF include HP, Microsoft, Polycom, Logitech/LifeSize Communications, and Juniper Networks.\n\nVideoconferencing in the late 20th century was limited to the H.323 protocol (notably Cisco's SCCP implementation was an exception), but newer videophones often use SIP, which is often easier to set up in home networking environments. It is a text-based protocol, incorporating many elements of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP). H.323 is still used, but more commonly for business videoconferencing, while SIP is more commonly used in personal consumer videophones. A number of call-setup methods based on instant messaging protocols such as Skype also now provide video.\n\nAnother protocol used by videophones is H.324, which mixes call setup and video compression. Videophones that work on regular phone lines typically use H.324, but the bandwidth is limited by the modem to around 33 kbit/s, limiting the video quality and frame rate. A slightly modified version of H.324 called 3G-324M defined by 3GPP is also used by some cellphones that allow video calls, typically for use only in UMTS networks.\n\nThere is also H.320 standard, which specified technical requirements for narrow-band visual telephone systems and terminal equipment, typically for videoconferencing and videophone services. It applied mostly to dedicated circuit-based switched network (point-to-point) connections of moderate or high bandwidth, such as through the medium-bandwidth ISDN digital phone protocol or a fractionated high bandwidth T1 lines. Modern products based on H.320 standard usually support also H.323 standard.\n\nThe IAX2 protocol also supports videophone calls natively, using the protocol's own capabilities to transport alternate media streams. A few hobbyists obtained the Nortel 1535 Color SIP Videophone cheaply in 2010 as surplus after Nortel's bankruptcy and deployed the sets on the Asterisk (PBX) platform. While additional software is required to patch together multiple video feeds for conference calls or convert between dissimilar video standards, SIP calls between two identical handsets within the same PBX were relatively straightforward.\n\nThe components within a videoconferencing system can be divided up into several different layers: User Interface, Conference Control, Control or Signaling Plane, and Media Plane.\n\nVideoconferencing User Interfaces (VUI) can be either graphical or voice responsive. Many in the industry have encountered both types of interfaces, and normally graphical interfaces are encountered on a computer. User interfaces for conferencing have a number of different uses; they can be used for scheduling, setup, and making a videocall. Through the user interface the administrator is able to control the other three layers of the system.\n\nConference Control performs resource allocation, management, and routing. This layer along with the User Interface creates meetings (scheduled or unscheduled) or adds and removes participants from a conference.\n\nControl (Signaling) Plane contains the stacks that signal different endpoints to create a call and/or a conference. Signals can be, but aren’t limited to, H.323 and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Protocols. These signals control incoming and outgoing connections as well as session parameters.\n\nThe Media Plane controls the audio and video mixing and streaming. This layer manages Real-Time Transport Protocols, User Datagram Packets (UDP) and Real-Time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP). The RTP and UDP normally carry information such the payload type which is the type of codec, frame rate, video size, and many others. RTCP on the other hand acts as a quality control Protocol for detecting errors during streaming.\n\nSimultaneous videoconferencing among three or more remote points is possible in a hardware-based system by means of a Multipoint Control Unit (MCU). This is a bridge that interconnects calls from several sources (in a similar way to the audio conference call). All parties call the MCU, or the MCU can also call the parties which are going to participate, in sequence. There are MCU bridges for IP and ISDN-based videoconferencing. There are MCUs which are pure software, and others which are a combination of hardware and software. An MCU is characterised according to the number of simultaneous calls it can handle, its ability to conduct transposing of data rates and protocols, and features such as Continuous Presence, in which multiple parties can be seen on-screen at once. MCUs can be stand-alone hardware devices, or they can be embedded into dedicated videoconferencing units.\n\nThe MCU consists of two logical components:\n\nThe MC controls the conferencing while it is active on the signaling plane, which is simply where the system manages conferencing creation, endpoint signaling and in-conferencing controls. This component negotiates parameters with every endpoint in the network and controls conferencing resources.\nWhile the MC controls resources and signaling negotiations, the MP operates on the media plane and receives media from each endpoint. The MP generates output streams from each endpoint and redirects the information to other endpoints in the conference.\n\nSome systems are capable of multipoint conferencing with no MCU, stand-alone, embedded or otherwise. These use a standards-based H.323 technique known as \"decentralized multipoint\", where each station in a multipoint call exchanges video and audio directly with the other stations with no central \"manager\" or other bottleneck. The advantages of this technique are that the video and audio will generally be of higher quality because they don't have to be relayed through a central point. Also, users can make ad-hoc multipoint calls without any concern for the availability or control of an MCU. This added convenience and quality comes at the expense of some increased network bandwidth, because every station must transmit to every other station directly.\n\nCloud-based video conferencing can be used without the hardware generally required by other video conferencing systems, and can be designed for use by SMEs, or larger international or multinational corporations like Facebook. Cloud-based systems can handle either 2D or 3D video broadcasting. Cloud-based systems can also implement mobile calls, VOIP, and other forms of video calling. They can also come with a video recording function to archive past meetings.\n\nHigh speed Internet connectivity has become more widely available at a reasonable cost and the cost of video capture and display technology has decreased. Consequently, personal videoconferencing systems based on a webcam, personal computer system, software compression, and broadband Internet connectivity have become progressively more affordable to the general public. Also, the hardware used for this technology has continued to improve in quality, and prices have dropped dramatically. The availability of freeware (often as part of chat programs) has made software based videoconferencing accessible to many.\n\nThe widest deployment of video telephony now occurs in mobile phones. Nearly all mobile phones supporting UMTS networks can work as videophones using their internal cameras, and are able to make video calls wirelessly to other UMTS users in the same country or internationally. As of the second quarter of 2007, there are over 131 million UMTS users (and hence potential videophone users), on 134 networks in 59 countries. Mobile phones can also use broadband wireless Internet, whether through the cell phone network or over a local wifi connection, along with software-based videophone apps to make calls to any video-capable Internet user, whether mobile or fixed.\n\nDeaf, hard-of-hearing, and mute individuals have a particular role in the development of affordable high-quality videotelephony as a means of communicating with each other in sign language. Unlike Video Relay Service, which is intended to support communication between a caller using sign language and another party using spoken language, videoconferencing can be used directly between two deaf signers.\n\nVideophones are increasingly used in the provision of telemedicine to the elderly, disabled, and to those in remote locations, where the ease and convenience of quickly obtaining diagnostic and consultative medical services are readily apparent. In one single instance quoted in 2006: \"A nurse-led clinic at Letham has received positive feedback on a trial of a video-link which allowed 60 pensioners to be assessed by medics without travelling to a doctor's office or medical clinic.\" A further improvement in telemedical services has been the development of new technology incorporated into special videophones to permit remote diagnostic services, such as blood sugar level, blood pressure, and vital signs monitoring. Such units are capable of relaying both regular audiovideo plus medical data over either standard (POTS) telephone or newer broadband lines.\n\nVideotelephony has also been deployed in corporate teleconferencing, also available through the use of public access videoconferencing rooms. A higher level of videoconferencing that employs advanced telecommunication technologies and high-resolution displays is called \"telepresence\".\n\nToday the principles, if not the precise mechanisms, of a videophone are employed by many users worldwide in the form of webcam videocalls using personal computers, with inexpensive webcams, microphones, and free videocalling Web client programs. Thus an activity that was disappointing as a separate service has found a niche as a minor feature in software products intended for other purposes.\n\nAccording to Juniper Research, smartphone videophone users will reach 29 million by 2015 globally.\n\nA study conducted by Pew Research in 2010, revealed that 7% of Americans have made a mobile video call.\n\nIn the United States, videoconferencing has allowed testimony to be used for an individual who is unable or prefers not to attend the physical legal settings, or would be subjected to severe psychological stress in doing so, however there is a controversy on the use of testimony by foreign or unavailable witnesses via video transmission, regarding the violation of the Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.\n\nIn a military investigation in North Carolina, Afghan witnesses have testified via videoconferencing.\n\nIn Hall County, Georgia, videoconferencing systems are used for initial court appearances. The systems link jails with court rooms, reducing the expenses and security risks of transporting prisoners to the courtroom.\n\nThe U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA), which oversees the world's largest administrative judicial system under its Office of Disability Adjudication and Review (ODAR), has made extensive use of videoconferencing to conduct hearings at remote locations. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2009, the U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA) conducted 86,320 videoconferenced hearings, a 55% increase over FY 2008. In August 2010, the SSA opened its fifth and largest videoconferencing-only National Hearing Center (NHC), in St. Louis, Missouri. This continues the SSA's effort to use video hearings as a means to clear its substantial hearing backlog. Since 2007, the SSA has also established NHCs in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Baltimore, Maryland, Falls Church, Virginia, and Chicago.\n\nVideoconferencing provides students with the opportunity to learn by participating in two-way communication forums. Furthermore, teachers and lecturers worldwide can be brought to remote or otherwise isolated educational facilities. Students from diverse communities and backgrounds can come together to learn about one another through practices known as telecollaboration(in foreign language education) and virtual exchange, although language barriers will continue to be present. Such students are able to explore, communicate, analyze, and share information and ideas with one another. Through videoconferencing, students can visit other parts of the world to speak with their peers, as well as visit museums and other cultural and educational facilities. Such virtual field trips can provide enriched learning opportunities to students, especially those in geographically isolated locations, and to the economically disadvantaged. Small schools can use these technologies to pool resources and provide courses, such as in foreign languages, which could not otherwise be offered.\n\nA few examples of benefits that videoconferencing can provide in campus environments include:\n\nVideoconferencing is a highly useful technology for real-time telemedicine and telenursing applications, such as diagnosis, consulting, transmission of medical images, etc. With videoconferencing, patients may contact nurses and physicians in emergency or routine situations; physicians and other paramedical professionals can discuss cases across large distances. Rural areas can use this technology for diagnostic purposes, thus saving lives and making more efficient use of health care money. For example, a rural medical center in Ohio used videoconferencing to successfully cut the number of transfers of sick infants to a hospital away. This had previously cost nearly $10,000 per transfer.\n\nSpecial peripherals such as microscopes fitted with digital cameras, videoendoscopes, medical ultrasound imaging devices, otoscopes, etc., can be used in conjunction with videoconferencing equipment to transmit data about a patient. Recent developments in mobile collaboration on hand-held mobile devices have also extended video-conferencing capabilities to locations previously unreachable, such as a remote community, long-term care facility, or a patient's home.\n\nVideoconferencing can enable individuals in distant locations to participate in meetings on short notice, with time and money savings. Technology such as VoIP can be used in conjunction with desktop videoconferencing to enable low-cost face-to-face business meetings without leaving the desk, especially for businesses with widespread offices. The technology is also used for telecommuting, in which employees work from home. One research report based on a sampling of 1,800 corporate employees showed that, as of June 2010, 54% of the respondents with access to video conferencing used it \"all of the time\" or \"frequently\".\n\nIntel Corporation have used videoconferencing to reduce both costs and environmental impacts of its business operations.\n\nVideoconferencing is also currently being introduced on online networking websites, in order to help businesses form profitable relationships quickly and efficiently without leaving their place of work. This has been leveraged by banks to connect busy banking professionals with customers in various locations using video banking technology.\n\nVideoconferencing on hand-held mobile devices (mobile collaboration technology) is being used in industries such as manufacturing, energy, healthcare, insurance, government, and public safety. Live, visual interaction removes traditional restrictions of distance and time, often in locations previously unreachable, such as a manufacturing plant floor thousands of miles away.\n\nIn the increasingly globalized film industry, videoconferencing has become useful as a method by which creative talent in many different locations can collaborate closely on the complex details of film production. For example, for the 2013 award-winning animated film \"Frozen\", Burbank-based Walt Disney Animation Studios hired the New York City-based husband-and-wife songwriting team of Robert Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez to write the songs, which required two-hour-long transcontinental videoconferences nearly every weekday for about 14 months.\n\nWith the development of lower cost endpoints, cloud based infrastructure and technology trends such as WebRTC, Video Conferencing is moving from just a business-to-business offering, to a business-to-business and business-to-consumer offering.\n\nAlthough videoconferencing has frequently proven its value, research has shown that some non-managerial employees prefer not to use it due to several factors, including anxiety. Some such anxieties can be avoided if managers use the technology as part of the normal course of business. Remote workers can also adopt certain behaviors and best practices to stay connected with their co-workers and company.\n\nResearchers also find that attendees of business and medical videoconferences must work harder to interpret information delivered during a conference than they would if they attended face-to-face. They recommend that those coordinating videoconferences make adjustments to their conferencing procedures and equipment.\n\nThe concept of press videoconferencing was developed in October 2007 by the PanAfrican Press Association (APPA), a Paris France-based non-governmental organization, to allow African journalists to participate in international press conferences on developmental and good governance issues.\n\nPress videoconferencing permits international press conferences via videoconferencing over the Internet. Journalists can participate on an international press conference from any location, without leaving their offices or countries. They need only be seated by a computer connected to the Internet in order to ask their questions to the speaker.\n\nIn 2004, the International Monetary Fund introduced the Online Media Briefing Center, a password-protected site available only to professional journalists. The site enables the IMF to present press briefings globally and facilitates direct questions to briefers from the press. The site has been copied by other international organizations since its inception. More than 4,000 journalists worldwide are currently registered with the IMF.\n\nOne of the first demonstrations of the ability for telecommunications to help sign language users communicate with each other occurred when AT&T's videophone (trademarked as the \"Picturephone\") was introduced to the public at the 1964 New York World's Fair –two deaf users were able to communicate freely with each other between the fair and another city. Various universities and other organizations, including British Telecom's Martlesham facility, have also conducted extensive research on signing via videotelephony.\n\nThe use of sign language via videotelephony was hampered for many years due to the difficulty of its use over slow analogue copper phone lines, coupled with the high cost of better quality ISDN (data) phone lines. Those factors largely disappeared with the introduction of more efficient and powerful video codecs and the advent of lower cost high-speed ISDN data and IP (Internet) services in the 1990s.\n\nSignificant improvements in video call quality of service for the deaf occurred in the United States in 2003 when Sorenson Media Inc. (formerly Sorenson Vision Inc.), a video compression software coding company, developed its VP-100 model stand-alone videophone specifically for the deaf community. It was designed to output its video to the user's television in order to lower the cost of acquisition, and to offer remote control and a powerful video compression codec for unequaled video quality and ease of use with video relay services. Favourable reviews quickly led to its popular usage at educational facilities for the deaf, and from there to the greater deaf community.\n\nCoupled with similar high-quality videophones introduced by other electronics manufacturers, the availability of high speed Internet, and sponsored video relay services authorized by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission in 2002, VRS services for the deaf underwent rapid growth in that country.\n\nUsing such video equipment in the present day, the deaf, hard-of-hearing, and speech-impaired can communicate between themselves and with hearing individuals using sign language. The United States and several other countries compensate companies to provide \"Video Relay Services\" (VRS). Telecommunication equipment can be used to talk to others via a sign language interpreter, who uses a conventional telephone at the same time to communicate with the deaf person's party. Video equipment is also used to do on-site sign language translation via Video Remote Interpreting (VRI). The relative low cost and widespread availability of 3G mobile phone technology with video calling capabilities have given deaf and speech-impaired users a greater ability to communicate with the same ease as others. Some wireless operators have even started free sign language gateways.\n\nSign language interpretation services via VRS or by VRI are useful in the present day where one of the parties is deaf, hard-of-hearing, or speech-impaired (mute). In such cases the interpretation flow is normally within the same principal language, such as French Sign Language (LSF) to spoken French, Spanish Sign Language (LSE) to spoken Spanish, British Sign Language (BSL) to spoken English, and American Sign Language (ASL) also to spoken English (since BSL and ASL are completely distinct to each other), German Sign Language (DGS) to spoken German, and so on.\n\nMultilingual sign language interpreters, who can also translate as well across principal languages (such as a multilingual interpreter interpreting a call from a deaf person using ASL to reserve a hotel room at a hotel in the Dominican Republic whose staff speaks Spanish only, therefore the interpreter has to utilize ASL, spoken Spanish, and spoken English to facilitate the call for the deaf person), are also available, albeit less frequently. Such activities involve considerable mental processing efforts on the part of the translator, since sign languages are distinct natural languages with their own construction, semantics and syntax, different from the aural version of the same principal language.\n\nWith video interpreting, sign language interpreters work remotely with live video and audio feeds, so that the interpreter can see the deaf or mute party, and converse with the hearing party, and vice versa. Much like telephone interpreting, video interpreting can be used for situations in which no on-site interpreters are available. However, video interpreting cannot be used for situations in which all parties are speaking via telephone alone. VRS and VRI interpretation requires all parties to have the necessary equipment. Some advanced equipment enables interpreters to control the video camera remotely, in order to zoom in and out or to point the camera toward the party that is signing.\n\nThe name \"videophone\" never became as standardized as its earlier counterpart \"telephone\", resulting in a variety of names and terms being used worldwide, and even within the same region or country. Videophones are also known as \"video phones\", \"videotelephones\" (or \"video telephones\") and often by an early trademarked name \"Picturephone\", which was the world's first commercial videophone produced in volume. The compound name \"videophone\" slowly entered into general use after 1950,\nalthough \"video telephone\" likely entered the lexicon earlier after \"video\" was coined in 1935.\n\n\"Videophone calls\" (also: \"videocalls\", \"video chat\" as well as \"Skype\" and \"Skyping\" in verb form), differ from videoconferencing in that they expect to serve individuals, not groups. However that distinction has become increasingly blurred with technology improvements such as increased bandwidth and sophisticated software clients that can allow for multiple parties on a call. In general everyday usage the term \"videoconferencing\" is now frequently used instead of \"videocall\" for point-to-point calls between two units. Both videophone calls and videoconferencing are also now commonly referred to as a \"video link\".\n\n\"Webcams\" are popular, relatively low cost devices which can provide live video and audio streams via personal computers, and can be used with many software clients for both video calls and videoconferencing.\n\nA \"videoconference system\" is generally higher cost than a videophone and deploys greater capabilities. A \"videoconference\" (also known as a \"videoteleconference\") allows two or more locations to communicate via live, simultaneous two-way video and audio transmissions. This is often accomplished by the use of a multipoint control unit (a centralized distribution and call management system) or by a similar non-centralized multipoint capability embedded in each videoconferencing unit. Again, technology improvements have circumvented traditional definitions by allowing multiple party videoconferencing via web-based applications.\n\nA \"telepresence system\" is a high-end videoconferencing system and service usually employed by enterprise-level corporate offices. Telepresence conference rooms use state-of-the art room designs, video cameras, displays, sound-systems and processors, coupled with high-to-very-high capacity bandwidth transmissions.\n\nTypical use of the various technologies described above include calling or conferencing on a one-on-one, one-to-many or many-to-many basis for personal, business, educational, deaf Video Relay Service and tele-medical, diagnostic and rehabilitative use or services. New services utilizing videocalling and videoconferencing, such as teachers and psychologists conducting online sessions, personal videocalls to inmates incarcerated in penitentiaries, and videoconferencing to resolve airline engineering issues at maintenance facilities, are being created or evolving on an ongoing basis.\n\nOther names for \"videophone\" that have been used in English are: \"Viewphone\" (the British Telecom equivalent to AT&T's Picturephone), and \"visiophone\", a common French translation that has also crept into limited English usage, as well as over twenty less common names and expressions. Latin-based translations of \"videophone\" in other languages include \"vidéophone\" (French), \"Bildtelefon\" (German), \"videotelefono\" (Italian), both \"videófono\" and \"videoteléfono\" (Spanish), both \"beeldtelefoon\" and \"videofoon\" (Dutch), and \"videofonía\" (Catalan).\n\nA \"telepresence robot\" (also telerobotics) is a robotically controlled and motorized video conferencing display to help give a better sense of remote physical presence for communication and collaboration in an office, home, school, etc. when one cannot be there in person. The robotic avatar device can move about and look around at the command of the remote person it represents.\n\nIn science fiction literature, names commonly associated with videophones include \"telephonoscope\", \"telephote\", \"viewphone\", \"vidphone\", \"vidfone\", and \"visiphone\". The first example was probably the cartoon \"Edison's Telephonoscope\" by George du Maurier in \"Punch\" 1878 . In many science fiction movies and TV programs that are set in the future, videophones were used as a primary method of communication. One of the first movies where a videophone was used was Fritz Lang's \"Metropolis\" (1927).\n\nOther notable examples of videophones in popular culture include an iconic scene from the 1968 film set on Space Station V. The movie was released shortly before AT&T began its efforts to commercialize its Picturephone Mod II service in several cities and depicts a videocall to Earth using an advanced AT&T videophone—which it predicts will cost $1.70 for a two-minute call in 2001 (a fraction of the company's real rates on Earth in 1968). Film director Stanley Kubrick strove for scientific accuracy, relying on interviews with scientists and engineers at Bell Labs in the United States. Dr. Larry Rabiner of Bell Labs, discussing videophone research in the documentary \"2001: The Making of a Myth\", stated that in the mid-to-late-1960s videophones \"...captured the imagination of the public and... of Mr. Kubrick and the people who reported to him\". In one \"2001\" movie scene a central character, Dr. Heywood Floyd, calls home to contact his family, a social feature noted in the \"Making of a Myth\". Floyd talks with and views his daughter from a space station in orbit above the Earth, discussing what type of present he should bring home for her.\n\nA portable videophone is also featured prominently in the 2009 science fiction movie \"Moon\", where the story's protagonist, Sam Bell, also calls home as well to communicate with loved ones. Bell, the lone occupant of a mining station on the far side of the Earth's moon, finally succeeds in making his videocall after an extended work period, but becomes traumatized when viewing his daughter.\n\nOther popular science fiction stories with videophones include \"\", \"Star Trek\", \"Total Recall\", \"Blade Runner\", and \"Firefly\". The videophone was a staple, everyday technology in the futuristic 1960s Hanna Barbera cartoon \"The Jetsons\".\n\nOther earlier examples of videophones in popular culture included a videophone that was featured in the Warner Bros. cartoon, \"Plane Daffy\", in which the female spy Hatta Mari used a videophone to communicate with Adolf Hitler (1944), as well as a device with the same functionality has been used by the comic strip character \"Dick Tracy\". Called the '2-Way Wrist TV', the fictional detective often used the phone to communicate with police headquarters (1964–1977).\n\nBy the early 2010s videotelephony and videophones had become commonplace and unremarkable in various forms of media, in part due to their real and ubiquitous presence in common electronic devices and laptop computers. Additionally, TV programming increasingly utilized videophones to interview subjects of interest and to present live coverage by news correspondents, via the Internet or by satellite links. In the mass market media, the popular U.S. TV talk show hostess Oprah Winfrey incorporated videotelephony into her TV program on a regular basis from May 21, 2009, with an initial episode called \"Where the Skype Are You?\", as part of a marketing agreement with the Internet telecommunication company Skype.\n\nAdditionally, videophones have been featured in:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56626792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56626792", "title": "World Institute of Sustainable Development Planners", "text": "World Institute of Sustainable Development Planners\n\nWorldwide Institute of Sustainable Development Planner (WISDP) was established in Oct 2017 and is a partner of UNESCO Hong Kong Association (UNESCO HK). WISDP is a learning and research institute cooperates with United Nations’ sustainable development policy to support training, recognition and promotion of sustainable development planning for individual and organization. WISDP supports the implementation of United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals (17 SDGs) and provides sustainable development training, membership, certification, and continuing professional development (CPD) of sustainable development planning to business, industries, education, NGOs and government. WISDP is initiated and supported by advocates of UN Agenda 2030 and the 17 SDGs. They include UNESCO Hong Kong Association, UNESCO Office of Pacific States, UNESCO Chair in the Political Economy of Education]], the UNESCO Chair in TVET & Lifelong Learning, Members of Working Groups of UNPRME (UN [[Principles for Responsibility of Management Education), Members of UN Global Compact, and Members of UNOSSCO (UN Organization of South-South Cooperation).\n\nUNESCO Hong Kong Association (UNESCO HK) is dedicated to facilitating and achieving UNESCO's mission, creating conditions for dialogue among [[civilizations]], cultures and peoples based upon respect for commonly shared values. It is through this dialogue that the world can achieve global visions of [[sustainable development]] encompassing observance of human rights, mutual respect and the alleviation of poverty. It strives to work towards the building of peace and to facilitate the sustainable development of society, economy and environment through education, sciences and culture.\n\nThe United Nation 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was formed by 2015 and established 17 [[Sustainable Development Goals]] (17 SDGs) and 169 work targets to push the sustainable development for year 2030 worldwide. To push and support the sustainable development of United Nations, a partner of UNESCO HK, WISDP was established in October, 2017 to cooperate with UNESCO HK to push and facilitate the development, planning and implementation of 17 SDGs. WISDP is a worldwide study and [[research institute]] to drive the training and professional recognition of sustainable development to industries, business, education and public service.\n\nWISDP was registered in Hong Kong with the company name, WORLD INSTITUTE OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PLANNERS LIMITED and was incorporated on 12-OCT-2017 is a [[company limited by guarantee]]. WISDP was formally launched in February 2018 and partner with training institutes to provide different levels of sustainable development training to industries and business. WISDP also establish memberships and certification processes to recognize the training, experiences and contributions of sustainable development for individuals and organizations.\n\nUnited Nations established the training and initiatives of sustainable development to keep the sustainability of the earth as well as the human development. Sustainable development implies economic growth together with the protection of environmental quality and social situation, each reinforcing the other. It is crucial to harmonize three core elements: economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection. The earth is the home of human being and we need to protect make the sustainability of the earth through sustainable development culture and planning.\n\nWISDP is a [[Learned Society]] fostering and advocating UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and the 17 [[Sustainable Development Goals]] in accordance with the three components of Environment, Society and Economy. Training is provided for professionals according to their needs and successful trainees are awarded professional membership from WISDP and UNESCO HK Association, and subject to adequate relevant work experience, they are entitled to become Certified Sustainable Development Planners (CSDP). Opportunities are provided for awardees to apply for Fellowship status after a number of years of [[continuing professional development]] (CPD).\n\nIn 2018, WISDP Divisions launched training programmes and lead to professional memberships. The training programmes incLuded Corporate Social responsibility (CSR), Sustainable Finance and Investment, Health Society and [[Wellness (medicine)|Wellness]], Early Childhood Education, Sustainability in Engineering and sustainable development in Insurance.\n\nWISDP partnered with universities, training institutes and professional bodies to promote and develop sustainable development planning knowledge to business sector, industries and education. The study levels includes diploma, certificate and continuing professional development training.\n\nWISDP also push and promote sustainable development to business organizations. WISDP support corporations to promote and implement sustainable leadership, processes, products, services as well as business strategies. Corporations may join the WISDP membership to cooperate with their sustainable development programmes and WISDP will award to the corporations, which contributed sustainable development to the industries and society.\n\nWISDP is set up as a professional organization and membership for practising sustainable development planning. Principally individual who support and experienced sustainable development planners may join the membership. WISDP offer various categories of membership to recognize different levels of sustainable development. WISDP welcome to people who are not practising but are interested in the profession or students who aspire to join the profession in the future.\n\n\n[[Category:UNESCO]]\n[[Category:2017 establishments in Hong Kong]]\n[[Category:Sustainable development]]"}
