{"id": "2159935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2159935", "title": "Acoli dialect", "text": "Acoli dialect\n\nAcoli (also Akoli, Acholi, Acooli, Atscholi, Shuli, Gang, Lwoo, Lwo, Lok Acoli, Dok Acoli) is a Southern Luo dialect spoken by the Acoli people in the districts of Gulu, Kitgum and Pader (a region known as Acoliland) in northern Uganda. It is also spoken in southern Sudan in Magwi County Eastern Equatoria states\n\n\"Song of Lawino\", well known in African literature, was written in Acoli by Okot p'Bitek, although its sequel, \"Song of Ocol\", was written in English.\n\nAcoli, Alur, and Lango have between 84 and 90 per cent of their vocabulary in common and are mutually intelligible. However, they are often counted as separate languages because their speakers are ethnically distinct. Labwor (Thur), once considered a dialect of Acoli, may not be intelligible with it.\n\nAcoli has vowel harmony: all vowels in a word have to belong to a single class (e.g. \"the cold\" vs. \"to separate\"). There are two sets of five vowels, distinguished by the feature [+/-ATR]. \n\nAcoli is a tonal language. Thus, some words may be distinguished by tone alone, e.g. \"bèl\" (low) 'wrinkled' vs. \"bél\" (high) 'corn' and \"kàl\" (low) 'place enclosed by a palisade' vs. \"kál\" (high) 'millet'. Tone furthermore plays a role in verb conjugation.\nThe above were the old work of the missionaries Alfered Malandra and Crazzolara published in 1955. However, a more up-to-date Acoli orthography by Janet Lakareber shows that a vowel in Acoli language has more than two pronunciations. A monosyllabic word in Acoli has 14 different pronunciations. This is explained in the nine books of Acoli Accented Orthography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41337148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41337148", "title": "Afro-Belgian", "text": "Afro-Belgian\n\nAfro-Belgians (; ; ) or Black Belgians, are defined as Belgian citizens and members of the Black African community and diaspora in Belgium.\n\nOn the 2017 Belgium national football team, 19 out of 52 total players are of African origin.\n"}
{"id": "8807398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8807398", "title": "Ajrak", "text": "Ajrak\n\nAjrak () is a unique form of blockprinted shawls and tiles found in Sindh, Pakistan. These shawls display special designs and patterns made using block printing by stamps. Over the years, ajraks have become a symbol of the Sindhi culture and traditions.\n\nEarly human settlements in the lower Indus Valley found a way of cultivating and using \"Gossypium arboreum\" commonly known as \"tree cotton\" to make clothes. These civilizations are thought to have mastered the art of making cotton fabrics.\n\nA bust of a priest-king excavated at Mohenjo-daro, currently in the National Museum of Pakistan, shows one shoulder draped in a piece of cloth that resembles an ajrak. Of special note is the trefoil pattern etched on the person's garment interspersed with small circles, the interiors of which were filled with a red pigment. This symbol illustrates what is believed to be an edifice depicting the fusion of the three sun-disks of the gods of the sun, water and the earth. Excavations elsewhere in the Old World around Mesopotamia have yielded similar patterns on various objects, most notably on the royal couch of Tutankhamen. Similar patterns appear in recent ajrak prints.\n\nThe level of geometry on the garment comes from the usage of a method of printing called woodblock printing in which prints were transferred from geometric shapes etched on the wooden blocks by pressing them hard on the fabric. Block printing is thought to have been first used in ancient China, at least as far as movable type is concerned. On its way through the populous regions of the Indus Valley, this technique of fabric printing was adopted at Mohenjo-daro.\n\nThe tradition still prevails centuries later, and people still use the same methods of production that were used in the earlier days to create an ajrak. The garment has become an essential part of the Sindhi culture and apparel of Sindhis. Men use it as a turban, a cummerbund or wind it around their shoulders or simply drape it over one shoulder. Women use it as a dupatta or a shawl and sometimes as a makeshift swing for children. Ajraks are usually about 2.5 to 3-meters long, patterned in intense colours predominantly rich crimson or a deep indigo with some white and black used sparingly to give definition to the geometric symmetry in design.\n\nAjraks are made all over Sindh, especially in Matiari, Hala, Bhit Shah, Moro, Sukkur, Kandyaro, Hyderabad, and many cities of Upper Sindh and Lower Sindh.\n\nThe ajrak is an integral part of Sindhi culture and Sindhi nationalism. Its usage is evident at all levels of society, and is held in high esteem, with the utmost respect given to it. According to Sindhi traditions, ajraks are often presented as gifts of hospitality to guests and presented to the person who is utterly respectable. They are also worn on festive occasions such as weddings and cultural events. Many prominent politicians from Sindh publicly wear ajraks, including the deceased former Pakistani Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto.\n\nAjrak craft products are made with natural dyes. The entire production of the products include both vegetable dyes and mineral dyes. Indigo is a key dye.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30280116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30280116", "title": "Al-Mansur Muhammad, Imam of Yemen", "text": "Al-Mansur Muhammad, Imam of Yemen\n\nAl-Mansur Muhammad (1441 – March 4, 1505) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who ruled in 1475-1504, in rivalry with other claimants for the imamate.\n\nMuhammad bin Ali as-Siraji al-Washali was one of the three Sayyids who claimed the Yemeni imamate after the death of al-Mutawakkil al-Mutahhar in Dhamar in 1474. He was a seventh-generation descendant of the imam Yahya bin Muhammad as-Siraji (d. 1296). He took the honorific title al-Mansur Muhammad. The two other claimants were al-Hadi Izz ad-din (d. 1495) and an-Nasir Muhammad (d. 1488). A fourth imam, al-Mu’ayyad Muhammad posed as lord of San'a (Sahib San'a) since 1464. Al-Mansur Muhammad was thus only one of several leaders in the Zaidi lands of highland Yemen. At this time, the Sunni Tahiride dynasty ruled from Zabid and Ta'izz in the lowland and southern highland. The Tahiride sultans did not attempt to expand to the north after 1465, and their relations to the Zaidi imams oscillated between tolerance and enmity. A preserved text outlines the political situation in the Zaidi territory around 1500. Al-Mu'ayyad Muhammad ruled San'a and the surrounding districts; the Kawkaban area stood under the sons of the old imam al-Mutawakkil al-Mutahhar; and the traditional Zaidi centre Sa'dah and its districts were divided between al-Mansur Muhammad and two other families.\n\nAl-Mansur Muhammad attacked Tahiride positions between Dhamar and San'a in 1496 and 1498. On the latter occasion the imam's forces were completely routed. After the death of al-Mu'ayyad Muhammad bin an-Nasir in 1503, San'a was dominated by a certain Sharib. In the next year, the Tahiride Sultan Amir attacked the city. Al-Mansur Muhammad hastened down to relieve the defenders of San'a, but he fell in the hands of Sultan Amir. The Tahirides entered San'a and a reign of terror ensued. The captured imam was poisoned in prison in San'a three months later. The Tahiride triumph was just temporary. Two years later the Zaidi imamate was continued in the person of al-Mutawakkil Yahya Sharaf ad-Din, who managed to unite large parts of Yemen under his authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "22319257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22319257", "title": "Are U 4 Real?", "text": "Are U 4 Real?\n\nAre U 4 Real? () is a Swedish young adult book written by Sara Kadefors. It was originally written as a script for a television drama, but after a Swedish television network turned it down, Kadefors got Bonnier Carlsen to publish it as a book in 2001. On April 7, 2009, it was revealed that the book would be released in the United States on May 14, 2009, with a new title, \"Are U 4 Real?\" The book is about a girl named Ida who lives in Stockholm and a boy named Sandor who lives in Gothenburg. The two sixteen-year-olds meet for the first time on an Internet chat room, where they eventually fall in love with each other. However, everything goes wrong when Sandor decides to visit Ida in Stockholm.\n\nIda is exactly the opposite of the girls Sandor usually talks to in real life. She is an attractive girl from Stockholm who likes to party, while he is a shy boy from Gothenburg who likes to dance ballet. The two first meet in an Internet chat room, where they share their feelings and become close friends. Sandor and Ida eventually fall in love with each other. However, everything goes wrong when Sandor decides to visit Ida in Stockholm.\n\n\"Sandor slash Ida\" was originally written by Sara Kadefors as a television drama. However, when she pitched the idea to the Swedish television network Sveriges Television, they turned it down. Kadefors therefore tried to get it published as a book, and in 2001 she got it published by Bonnier Carlsen. On April 7, 2009, it was revealed that the book would be published in the United States by Penguin Group on May 14, 2009. Several changes have been made to the English adaption of the book. Ida's name has been changed to Kyla and Sandor's has been changed to Alex. The book is no longer set in Sweden; Stockholm has been replaced by Los Angeles and Gothenburg by San Francisco. Several parts of the book regarding Ida's sexual experiences have also been removed or censored. Kadefors said she was insulted by the changes, \"it's like if the book wasn't good enough, and [Ida's] experiences with sex and alcohol explains why she reacts the ways she does in the book.\" The book's translator explained that if the book had contained \"too much sex\" it would have been difficult to sell to stores.\n\nThe episode has received multiple awards. In 2001, it won the prestigious Augustpriset (\"English: August Award\") in the \"Best Children-Youth Book\" category. It won the Pocketpriset (\"English: Pocket Award\") for being the most sold children's book in 2001. It is one of the most common books for Swedish children between the ages of twelve to fifteen to read during their primary education in Swedish schools. Other common books include \"Lord of the Flies\" and \"Vinterviken\".\n\nA film adaption of the book was released in Sweden on February 4, 2005. It was written by Kadefors and directed by Henrik Georgsson, Kadefors's husband. The film won an award at the Gothenburg Film Festival, where it premiered. The film also won a Guldbagge Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "8993373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8993373", "title": "Awi people", "text": "Awi people\n\nThe Awi people are an ethnic group in Ethiopia, and are grouped as one of the Agaw people. The Awis live in Agew Awi Zone in Central Gojjam, and have a few communities in the Metekel Zone of the Benishangul-Gumuz Region.\n\nThe 2007 census lists 631,565 ethnic Awis, or 0.85% of the total population; 63,415 are urban inhabitants. The Awi Zone, according to the Central Statistical Agency, had roughly 990,000 inhabitants in 2005. Others living in that Zone are predominantly Amharas.\n\nThe Awis speak Awngi, a Central Cushitic language.\n\n"}
{"id": "22381621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22381621", "title": "Child labour in Bangladesh", "text": "Child labour in Bangladesh\n\nChild labour in Bangladesh is common, with 4.7 million or 12.6% of children aged 5 to 14 in the work force. Out of the child labourers engaged in the work force, 83% are employed in rural areas and 17% are employed in urban areas. Child labour can be found in agriculture, poultry breeding, fish processing, the garment sector and the leather industry, as well as in shoe production. Children are involved in jute processing, the production of candles, soap and furniture. They work in the salt industry, the production of asbestos, bitumen, tiles and ship breaking.\n\nIn 2006, Bangladesh passed a Labour Law setting the minimum legal age for employment as 14. Nevertheless, the enforcement of such labour laws is virtually impossible in Bangladesh because 93% of child labourers are employed in the informal sector such as small factories and workshops, on the street, in home-based businesses and domestic employment.\n\nDespite the prevalence of child labour in Bangladesh, there has been an increase in legislation against child labour. Bangladesh has ratified, the ILO Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (C182). In addition, the country also ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nThe definition of child labour varies depending on region, culture, organization, and government. The Western perspective portrays childhood as a carefree stage of life in which a person does not possess the capacity to be an adult. Although there is no universal definition for child labour, various organizations have defined child labour and its parameters.\n\nThe International Labour Organization's (ILO) Minimum Age Convention 138 states that at age 12 a child is allowed to light work in non-hazardous situations and at age 15 a child is allowed to enter the work force. The ILO defines child labour as \"work that exceeds a minimum number of hours, depending on the age of a child and on the type of work\". The ILO also has three categories pertaining to children in work: economically active children, child labour, and hazardous work. Children can be categorised as economically active if they are involved in work outside of school or the home at least one hour once every seven days. Children can be categorised as performing child labour if they are under the age of 12 or performing hazardous work. Children are categorised as performing hazardous work if they are involved in activities that may harm their physical, mental, or developmental health or safety.\n\nThe United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) defines child labour as any activity that affects a child's health and education. Its definition also states that child labour is work that leads to deprivation of childhood activities, exploitation and abuse.\n\nThe International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) defines employment and economically active children as \"paid and unpaid work in the formal and nonformal sectors of rural and urban areas\". This definition excludes children working in their own households.\n\nThe Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics considers children aged 5–14 who work for one or more hours (per week) in both paid and unpaid settings to be child workers. For children older than 10, any economic activity is considered a form a child labour. This includes work both inside and outside of the household setting.\n\nPoverty is widely recognised and acknowledged as the primary cause of child labour. The link between poverty and child labour is supported by efforts of international organizations, such as the ILO and the United Nations, to reduce child labour through poverty reduction policies. There is a strong negative correlation between the income level of a country and the incidence rate of child labour. An increase of $0–$500 per capita income to $500–$1000 per capita income can lead to a decrease in child labour incidence rate from 30%–60% to 10%–30%. Although the annual per capita income of Bangladesh has been increasing, around 9–13% of the total labour force in Bangladesh still consists of children aged 5–14. In a 2013 statistical report, UNICEF estimates that around 43.3% of the population in Bangladesh is currently living below the international poverty line.\n\nFactors such as urbanization and population growth perpetuate poverty. In a 2013 statistical report, UNICEF estimated an annual population growth rate in Bangladesh to be 1.7% from 1990–2012. Populations move from rural to urban areas because there is an increase in available economic opportunities. A combination of poor living standards in urban settings and an influx of cheap labour from children perpetuate both poverty and the use of child labour. The prevalence of child labour can be attributed to the socioeconomic statuses of families living at or below the poverty line. Oftentimes, families rely on the extra income produced by their children in order to sustain their livelihood. Many children are forced to work to help support the family. In other cases, children are forced to work for a living for themselves because their families abandoned or could not take care of them. Studies have shown that children from poorer families are more likely to be in the work force due to their contribution to overall family income.\n\nThe demographics of the population in Bangladesh can also be a predictor of child labour incidence rates. Children in rural areas are more likely to work than children in urban areas. This may be due to the agricultural history of Bangladesh and the tradition of children working alongside adults in the fields. However, in both rural and urban settings, boys are more likely to work than girls, with the majority of child workers falling in the age range of 12–14.\n\nFamily dynamics also contributed to child labour incidence rates. Children in households with a large proportion of adults in the family are less likely to work. Children in households where all adults are working are more likely to work. Children in households where there is a larger portion of paid adult workers are even more likely to work. These findings by Salmon (2005) indicate that children act as a source of income generation because households that maximise all human capital tend to be households that have incidences of child labour.\n\nLack of education remains one of the top impacts of child labour. Child labour is a deterrent to schooling. Many policies aimed at eradicating child labour have focused on increasing accessibility to education. Organizations such as the ILO, the United Nations, and UNICEF recognise the importance of education in helping to eradicate poverty and in preventing child labour growth rates. According to UNICEF, the new National Education Policy requires that children must complete school until grade eight and that school must be free. Many definitions of child labour state education as a right of childhood and consider barriers to education as a defining characteristic of child labour.\n\nThere is a strong relationship between child labour and school attendance. In a 2010 statistical report, UNICEF measured that around 50% of all working children in Bangladesh do not attend school. Another 6.8% of children between age 7 and 14 whom, while going to school, also work. Of those that do attend school, school performance is negatively affected when children are in the work force. Although school is free, many children are forced to drop out because they do not have the time or resources to attend. For many families, the income produced by their children is considered more valuable than an education that requires their child to stop working. A study conducted by Rahman (1997) found that around 58% of working children listed economic hardship as the reason they were not attending school. Of those that did choose to go to school, conditions of schools and the quality of education proved to be serious barriers to significant learning. A 2002 and 2003 survey conducted by the World Bank showed that on average teachers in Bangladesh miss one out of five days of work a week.\n\nIt has also been found that illiteracy rates are a predictor of child labour prevalence. In 2013, UNICEF estimates that total adult literacy is around 57.7%. Literacy rates also tend to be lower for females than males. In Bangladesh, less than 75% of girls finish their primary education.\n\nAccording to the recent 2014 TVPRA \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" published by the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of International Labor Affairs, Bangladesh figures among the 74 countries where significant incidence of child labour and forced labour is still observed. 15 products are produced in such working conditions in Bangladesh.\n\nMost child labourers in Bangladesh are employed in the informal sector. These forms of labour are hard to regulate and monitor. The most common forms of work is agriculture, in rural areas, and domestic service, in urban areas. The majority of all child labourers in Bangladesh work in agriculture. Agricultural activities include poultry farming, drying fish, salt mining, shrimp farming and produce logistics. Children in agriculture use dangerous tools, carry heavy loads, and apply harmful pesticides. Many of these children are employed by their families as extra hands in the fields or sent out to work for their own food. They often work long hours with little to no pay and endure dangerous conditions that result in many health issues.\n\nChildren, mostly girls, work as domestic servants in private households in Bangladesh. Domestic child labourers work long hours and subject to harassment, emotional, physical, and sexual abuse. The majority of children working as domestic workers are employed seven days a week and live in the home they serve. Separation from family and working in private homes often results in the abuse and exploitation of these children. They endure harsh working conditions that cause psychological stress, physical strain, and health issues with little pay or compensation in the form of food, clothing, and shelter. Because domestic service occurs in the home, it is often not considered economic work. Therefore, there are minimal regulations for fair working conditions and wages.\n\nOther informal industries with large child labour activity (age below 18) include ship breaking and recycling operations, production of soap, matches, bricks, cigarettes, footwear, furniture, glass, jute, leather, textiles, restaurants, garbage picking and trash hunting, vending, begging, portering, and van pulling. Many working children earn less than 10 US dollars per month.\n\nThe garment industry is the largest employer of child labour in the formal sector. The industry expanded rapidly from 1983 to 1999, becoming the country's largest source of export earnings. Bangladesh is in the top ten largest garment exporters in the world. The garment industry not only increased economic earning but also increased available jobs in urban settings, especially for women. As a result, the incidence of child labourers in urban areas increased. The majority of labourers in the garment industry hired are girls and women. Bangladesh garment factories have been accused of forcing girls as young as 13 to work up to 11 hours a day to produce garments for western retailers.\n\nChildren in this industry work around 10 hours a day for about 12 U.S. dollars a month. Children are also exposed to various health and safety hazards. Garment shops are at great risk of fires due to blocked fire exits, poor crowd control, and lack of fire safety precautions. Working in garment shops also exposes children to dangerous chemicals and heavy machinery. These exposures to safety hazards can lead to various health issues ranging from cuts and bruises to musculoskeletal disorders.\n\n\nThis act allowed for children aged 15 or up to work in the railway industry and in transporting goods in port jobs. It also allowed for children aged 15–17 to work night shifts that may last until the morning under certain stipulations such as resting for 13 consecutive hours, working under someone that is 18 years or older, or serving an apprenticeship. It prohibited children under 12 from working in hazardous industries but did not mention protection for children between the ages 12–18.\n\n\nThis act prohibited children under 14 to work in or be present in factories. Factories was defined as any place with more than 10 people employed. It also listed various protections for children from hazardous machines and operations. It prohibited any work duration of longer than 5 hours between 7pm to 7am. It also states the weight lifting limits for types of workers (male, female, child).\n\n\nThis act defined a shop or establishment as a place that employs 5 or more people. This act prohibited children under the age of 12 from working in any establishment. It allowed children aged 12–18 to work in establishments but limited the number of work hours to a maximum of 7 hours a day.\n\n\nThe Constitution of Bangladesh while guaranteeing the fundamental rights for the people prohibits all forms of forced labor under Article 34. Article 34 lays down that 'all forms of forced labor are prohibited and any contravention of this provision shall be an offense punishable in accordance with law'.\n\n\nThe Children Act 2013 repealed the previous Children Act 1974 which was inconsistent with international standards particularly with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child 1989. Section 4 of this Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force every person shall be deemed to be a child who is below the age of 18 years. Though there is no specific provision prohibiting child labor it proscribes and punishes some serious offenses against children including exploitation of children (section 80).\n\n\nOriginating from U.S. Senator Tom Harkin, this bill banned imports of items that were associated with child labour at various stages of production, whether it was direct involvement in the product or indirect involvement such as packaging. This law affected the labour situation in Bangladesh because garment industries, fearing a loss of business, fired many child labourers.\n\n\nAccording to the Office of Child Labor, Forced Labor, and Human Trafficking (OCFT) United States Department of Labor:In 2011, Bangladesh made a moderate advancement in efforts to eliminate the worst forms of child labor. Bangladesh passed the Human Trafficking Deterrence and Suppression Act 2012 which makes human trafficking (including labor trafficking) a capital offense, developed and fully funded a Child Labor Monitoring Information System to manage child labor related data and began implementation of a $9 million child labor project. However, legal protections regarding child labor are limited and the capacity to enforce child labor laws remains weak. Bangladesh maintains a low compulsory education age. Children in Bangladesh are engaged in the worst forms of child labor, primarily in dangerous activities in agriculture and domestic service.\n\nThe legislation tried to enroll more children and adults into school and away from work. This was not the outcome. Some children enrolled in school, but many sought other work. Due to the law, many kids took more dangerous jobs in the informal economy, including; prostitution, street hawkers, stone welding, and as maids. Schooling is compulsory only to age 10. The minimum age for most child labor is 14, 18 for hazardous work.\n\n\nSigned by the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA), ILO, and UNICEF this initiative allowed children displaced and fired from the garment industry to receive education, vocational training, and skills training. It also provided families with income to make up for their child's lack of work. This program is also called \"The Placement of Children Workers in School Programs and the Elimination of Child Labor.\" The MOU has made an impact in reducing child labour in the garment industry in Bangladesh. Because of this program, more than 8,200 children received non-formal education after losing their jobs. Additionally, 680 children received vocational training.\n\n\nThe Bangladesh Rehabilitation Assistance Committee is a non-profit organization founded in the mid-1970s in Bangladesh. BRAC, along with Grameen Bank, are the two largest lenders of microcredit in Bangladesh. Together they cover 59% of borrowers in the country. Microcredit has been shown to alleviate poverty but in small amounts. The effects of microcredit are not large enough to change the lives of an entire population. However, it has been shown to allow families in poverty to find a way out. BRAC has also been responsible for running schools for non-formal education that were put in place to teach children fired from jobs. These non-formal schools also gave children another option besides schooling. Along with the schooling program, families also received health care services and monthly cash stipends to make up for the wages their children were not bringing in by participating in the schooling program.\n\n\nIn addition to the work of the government, BRAC, and ILO, there have been a number of contributions from international organizations and donors to help start strategies against child labour. These strategies include: taking children out of hazardous work environments and placing them in schooling or training programs, giving families stipends to compensate for loss in wages from a decrease in child labour, and raising awareness of the harmful effects of child labour.\n\nInternational conventions and other instruments:\n\n"}
{"id": "45312411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45312411", "title": "Cognitive bias in animals", "text": "Cognitive bias in animals\n\nCognitive bias in animals is a pattern of deviation in judgment, whereby inferences about other animals and situations may be affected by irrelevant information or emotional states. It is sometimes said that animals create their own \"subjective social reality\" from their perception of the input. In humans, for example, an optimistic or pessimistic bias might affect one's answer to the question \"Is the glass half empty or half full?\"\n\nTo explore cognitive bias, one might train an animal to expect that a positive event follows one stimulus and that a negative event follows another stimulus. For example, on many trials, if the animal presses lever A after a 20 Hz tone it gets a highly desired food, but a press on lever B after a 10 Hz tone yields bland food. The animal is then offered both levers after an intermediate test stimulus, e.g. a 15 Hz tone. The hypothesis is that the animal's \"mood\" will bias the choice of levers after the test stimulus; if positive, it will tend to choose lever A, if negative it will tend to choose lever B. The hypothesis is tested by manipulating factors that might affect mood – for example, the type of housing the animal is kept in.\n\nCognitive biases have been shown in a wide range of species including rats, dogs, rhesus macaques, sheep, chicks, starlings and honeybees.\n\nIn what has been described as a \"landmark study\", the first study of cognitive bias in animals was conducted with rats. This showed that laboratory rats in unpredictable environments had a more pessimistic attitude than rats in predictable environments.\n\nOne study on rats investigated whether changes in light intensity – a short-term manipulation of emotional state – has an effect on cognitive bias. Light intensity was chosen as a treatment because this specifically relates to anxiety-induction. Rats were trained to discriminate between two different locations, in either high ('H') or low ('L') light levels. One location was rewarded with palatable food and the other with aversive food. Rats switched from high to low light levels (putatively the least negative emotional manipulation) ran faster to all three ambiguous locations than rats switched from low to high light levels (putatively the most negative manipulation).\n\nAnother study investigated whether chronic social defeat makes rats more pessimistic. To induce chronic psychosocial stress, rats were subjected to daily social defeat in a resident–intruder paradigm for three weeks. This chronic psychosocial stress makes rats more pessimistic.\n\nUsing the cognitive bias approach, it has been found that rats which are subjected to either handling or playful, experimenter-administered manual stimulation (tickling) showed different responses to the intermediate stimulus: rats exposed to tickling were more optimistic. The authors stated that they had demonstrated \"...for the first time a link between the directly measured positive affective state and decision making under uncertainty in an animal model\".\n\nUp to five million pet dogs in the UK, approximately 50% of the population, may perform undesirable separation-related behaviour when left home alone. Dogs were trained to move from a start position to a food bowl. When the bowl was on one side of the room ('positive' location, P) it contained a small quantity of food, and when on the opposite side ('negative' location, N) it was empty. In test trials, the bowl (empty) was placed at one of three ambiguous locations between P and N (near-positive (NP), middle (M), or near-negative (NN). Three test trials were presented at each location. The researchers measured how quickly the dogs moved to the ambiguous locations, fast indicating anticipation of food (an 'optimistic' judgement) or more slowly (a 'pessimistic' judgement). These cognitive bias tests show that dogs which exhibit high levels of separation-related behaviour in a separation test also have a more negative underlying mood.\n\nDomestic pigs do not appear to develop a cognitive bias when kept in different stocking densities. Farmed pigs trained to expect food inside a bowl in one location and not in another, and then tested to show their responses to ambiguous spatial locations. Forty growing pigs were housed in groups of 10 at different density for 8 weeks prior to the start of the test. Tests on three occasions for each pig did not reveal any difference in cognitive bias according to the pig's history of stocking density.\n\nOne study shows that restriction of collared peccaries (\"Pecari tajacu\") in metabolism pens affects their emotional state and increases feacal glucocorticoid (a stress hormone) metabolite concentrations. The researchers noted that these effects were mitigated by environmental enrichment.\n\nHoneybees (\"Apis mellifera carnica\") were trained to extend their proboscis to a two-component odour mixture (CS+) predicting a reward (e.g., 1.00 or 2.00 M sucrose) and to withhold their proboscis from another mixture (CS−) predicting either punishment or a less valuable reward (e.g., 0.01 M quinine solution or 0.3 M sucrose). Immediately after training, half of the honeybees were subjected to vigorous shaking for 60 s to simulate the state produced by a predatory attack on a concealed colony. This shaking reduced levels of octopamine, dopamine, and serotonin in the hemolymph of a separate group of honeybees at a time point corresponding to when the cognitive bias tests were performed. In honeybees, octopamine is the local neurotransmitter that functions during reward learning, whereas dopamine mediates the ability to learn to associate odours with quinine punishment. If flies are fed serotonin, they are more aggressive; flies depleted of serotonin still exhibit aggression, but they do so much less frequently.\n\nWithin 5 minutes of the shaking, all the trained bees began a sequence of unreinforced test trials with five odour stimuli presented in a random order for each bee: the CS+, the CS−, and three novel odours composed of ratios intermediate between the two learned mixtures. Shaken honeybees were more likely to withhold their mouthparts from the CS− and from the most similar novel odour. Therefore, agitated honeybees display an increased expectation of bad outcomes similar to a vertebrate-like emotional state. The researchers of the study stated that, \"Although our results do not allow us to make any claims about the presence of negative subjective feelings in honeybees, they call into question how we identify emotions in any nonhuman animal. It is logically inconsistent to claim that the presence of pessimistic cognitive biases should be taken as confirmation that dogs or rats are anxious but to deny the same conclusion in the case of honeybees.\"\n"}
{"id": "20611030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611030", "title": "Ejaculation", "text": "Ejaculation\n\nEjaculation is the discharge of semen (normally containing sperm) from the male reproductory tract, usually accompanied by orgasm. It is the final stage and natural objective of male sexual stimulation, and an essential component of natural conception. In rare cases, ejaculation occurs because of prostatic disease. Ejaculation may also occur spontaneously during sleep (a nocturnal emission or \"wet dream\"). \"Anejaculation\" is the condition of being unable to ejaculate. \"Dysejaculation\" is an ejaculation that is painful or uncomfortable. Retrograde ejaculation is the condition where semen travels backwards into the bladder rather than out the urethra.\n\nA usual precursor to ejaculation is the sexual arousal of the male, leading to the erection of the penis, though not every arousal nor erection leads to ejaculation. Penile sexual stimulation during masturbation or vaginal, anal, oral, or non-penetrative sexual activity may provide the necessary stimulus for a man to achieve orgasm and ejaculation. With regard to intravaginal ejaculation latency time, men typically reach orgasm 5–7 minutes after the start of penile-vaginal intercourse, taking into account their desires and those of their partners, but 10 minutes is also a common intravaginal ejaculation latency time. A prolonged stimulation either through foreplay (kissing, petting and direct stimulation of erogenous zones before penetration during intercourse) or stroking (during masturbation) leads to an adequate amount of arousal and production of pre-ejaculatory fluid. While the presence of sperm in pre-ejaculatory fluid is thought to be rare, sperm from an earlier ejaculation, still present in the urethra, may be picked up by pre-ejaculatory fluid. In addition, infectious agents (including HIV) can often be present in pre-ejaculate.\n\nPremature ejaculation is when ejaculation occurs before the desired time. If a man is unable to ejaculate in a timely manner after prolonged sexual stimulation, in spite of his desire to do so, it is called delayed ejaculation or anorgasmia. An orgasm that is not accompanied by ejaculation is known as a dry orgasm.\n\nWhen a man has achieved a sufficient level of stimulation, the orgasm and ejaculation begins. At that point, under the control of the sympathetic nervous system, semen containing sperm is produced (emission). The semen is ejected through the urethra with rhythmic contractions. These rhythmic contractions are part of the male orgasm. They are generated by the bulbospongiosus and pubococcygeus muscles under the control of a spinal reflex at the level of the spinal nerves S2–4 via the pudendal nerve. The typical male orgasm lasts several seconds.\n\nAfter the start of orgasm, pulses of semen begin to flow from the urethra, reach a peak discharge and then diminish in flow. The typical orgasm consists of 10 to 15 contractions, although the man is unlikely to be consciously aware of that many. Once the first contraction has taken place, ejaculation will continue to completion as an involuntary process. At this stage, ejaculation cannot be stopped. The rate of contractions gradually slows during the orgasm. Initial contractions occur at an average interval of 0.6 seconds with an increasing increment of 0.1 seconds per contraction. Contractions of most men proceed at regular rhythmic intervals for the duration of the orgasm. Many men also experience additional irregular contractions at the conclusion of the orgasm.\n\nEjaculation usually begins during the first or second contraction of orgasm. For most men, the first ejection of semen occurs during the second contraction, while the second is typically the largest expelling 40% or more of total semen discharge. After this peak, the magnitude of semen the penis emits diminishes as the contractions begin to lessen in intensity. The muscle contractions of the orgasm can continue after ejaculation with no additional semen discharge occurring. A small sample study of seven men showed an average of 7 spurts of semen followed by an average of 10 more contractions with no semen expelled. This study also found a high correlation between number of spurts of semen and total ejaculate volume, i.e., larger semen volumes resulted from additional pulses of semen rather than larger individual spurts.\n\nAlfred Kinsey measured the distance of ejaculation, in \"some hundreds\" of men. In three-quarters of men tested, ejaculate \"is propelled with so little force that the liquid is not carried more than a minute distance beyond the tip of the penis.\" In contrast to those test subjects, Kinsey noted \"In other males the semen may be propelled from a matter of some inches to a foot or two, or even as far as five or six and (rarely) eight feet\". Masters and Johnson report ejaculation distance to be no greater than . During the series of contractions that accompany ejaculation, semen is propelled from the urethra at , close to .\n\nMost men experience a refractory period immediately following an orgasm, during which time they are unable to achieve another erection, and a longer period again before they are capable of achieving another ejaculation. During this time a male feels a deep and often pleasurable sense of relaxation, usually felt in the groin and thighs. The duration of the refractory period varies considerably, even for a given individual. Age affects the recovery time, with younger men typically recovering faster than older men, though not universally so.\n\nWhereas some men may have refractory periods of 15 minutes or more, some men are able to experience sexual arousal immediately after ejaculation. A short recovery period may allow partners to continue sexual play relatively uninterrupted by ejaculation. Some men may experience their penis becoming hypersensitive to stimulation after ejaculation, which can make sexual stimulation unpleasant even while they may be sexually aroused.\n\nThere are men who are able to achieve multiple orgasms, with or without the typical sequence of ejaculation and refractory period. Some of those men report not noticing refractory periods, or are able to maintain erection by \"sustaining sexual activity with a full erection until they passed their refractory time for orgasm when they proceeded to have a second or third orgasm\".\n\nThe force and amount of semen that will be ejected during an ejaculation will vary widely between men and may contain between 0.1 and 10 milliliters (by way of comparison, note that a teaspoon is 5 ml and a tablespoon holds 15 ml). Adult semen volume is affected by the time that has passed since the previous ejaculation; larger semen volumes are seen with greater durations of abstinence. The duration of the stimulation leading up to the ejaculation can affect the volume. Abnormally low semen volume is known as hypospermia. One of the possible underlying causes of low volume or complete lack of semen is ejaculatory duct obstruction. It is normal for the amount of semen to diminish with age.\n\nThe number of sperm in an ejaculation also varies widely, depending on many factors, including the time since the last ejaculation, age, stress levels, and testosterone. Greater lengths of sexual stimulation immediately preceding ejaculation can result in higher concentrations of sperm. An unusually low sperm count, not the same as low semen volume, is known as oligospermia, and the absence of any sperm from the semen is termed azoospermia.\n\nThe first ejaculation in males often occurs about 12 months after the onset of puberty, generally through masturbation or nocturnal emission (wet dreams). This first semen volume is small. The typical ejaculation over the following three months produces less than 1 ml of semen. The semen produced during early puberty is also typically clear. After ejaculation this early semen remains jellylike and, unlike semen from mature males, fails to liquefy. A summary of semen development is shown in Table 1.\n\nMost first ejaculations (90 percent) lack sperm. Of the few early ejaculations that do contain sperm, the majority of sperm (97%) lack motion. The remaining sperm (3%) have abnormal motion.\n\nAs the male proceeds through puberty, the semen develops mature characteristics with increasing quantities of normal sperm. Semen produced 12 to 14 months after the first ejaculation liquefies after a short period of time. Within 24 months of the first ejaculation, the semen volume and the quantity and characteristics of the sperm match that of adult male semen.\nEjaculate is jellylike and fails to liquefy.\nMost samples liquefy. Some remain jellylike.\nEjaculate liquefies within an hour.\n\nThere is a central pattern generator in the spinal cord, made up of groups of spinal interneurons, that is involved in the rhythmic response of ejaculation. This is known as the \"spinal generator for ejaculation\".\n\nTo map the neuronal activation of the brain during the ejaculatory response, researchers have studied the expression of c-Fos, a proto-oncogene expressed in neurons in response to stimulation by hormones and neurotransmitters. Expression of c-Fos in the following areas has been observed:\n\nAlthough uncommon, some men can achieve ejaculations during masturbation without any manual stimulation. Such men usually do it by tensing and flexing their abdominal and buttocks muscles along with vigorous fantasising. Others may do it by relaxing the area around the penis, which may result in harder erections especially when hyperaroused.\n\nPerineum pressing results in an ejaculation which is purposefully held back by pressing on either the perineum or the urethra to force the seminal fluid to remain inside. In such a scenario, the seminal fluid stays inside the body and goes to the bladder. Some people do this to avoid making a mess by keeping all the semen inside. As a medical condition, it is called retrograde ejaculation.\n\nFor most men, no detrimental health effects have been determined from ejaculation itself or from frequent ejaculations, though sexual activity in general can have health or psychological consequences. A small fraction of men have a disease called postorgasmic illness syndrome (POIS), which causes severe muscle pain throughout the body and other symptoms immediately following ejaculation. The symptoms last for up to a week. Some doctors speculate that the frequency of POIS \"in the population may be greater than has been reported in the academic literature\", and that many POIS sufferers are undiagnosed.\n\nIt is not clear whether frequent ejaculation increases, reduces or has no effect on the risk of prostate cancer. Two large studies: \"Ejaculation Frequency and Subsequent Risk of Prostate Cancer\" and \"Sexual Factors and Prostate Cancer\" suggest that frequent ejaculation over a lifetime offers some protection against prostate cancer. The US study involving \"29,342 US men aged 46 to 81 years\" suggest that \"high ejaculation frequency was related to decreased risk of total prostate cancer\". An Australian study involving \"1,079 men with prostate cancer and 1,259 healthy men\" found that \"there is evidence that the more frequently men ejaculate between the ages of 20 and 50, the less likely they are to develop prostate cancer\":\n\nIn mammals and birds, multiple ejaculation is commonplace. During copulation, each side of a short-beaked echidna's penis is used alternately, with the other half being shut down between ejaculations.\n\nIn stallions, ejaculation is accompanied by a motion of the tail known as \"tail flagging\". When a male wolf ejaculates, his final pelvic thrust may be slightly prolonged. A male rhesus monkey usually ejaculates less than 15 seconds after sexual penetration. The first report and footage of spontaneous ejaculation in an aquatic mammal was recorded in a wild Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphin near Mikura Island, Japan in 2012.\n\nIn horses, sheep, and cattle, ejaculation lasts for several seconds or fractions of a second, but in boars, it can last for 10–30 minutes or 5–10 minutes. Ejaculation in boars is stimulated when the spiral-shaped glans penis interlocks with the female's cervix. A mature boar can produce of semen during one ejaculation. In llamas and alpacas, ejaculation occurs continuously during copulation.\n\nThe semen of male dogs is ejaculated in three separate fractions. The third fraction is produced during the copulatory tie, and consists mainly of prostatic fluid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2365856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2365856", "title": "Eugenio Hernández Flores", "text": "Eugenio Hernández Flores\n\nEugenio Javier Hernández Flores (born October 17, 1959 in Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas), is a Mexican politician affiliated with the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). He was the mayor of Ciudad Victoria from 2001 to 2004 and Governor of the state of Tamaulipas from 2004 to 2010, and was also federal deputy in 2000 and coordinator of the Financial Committee of Tomas Yarrington during his campaign. On May 27, 2015, he was indicted on charges of money laundering alongside his brother-in-law Oscar Gomez Guerra by the United States Department of Justice (USDOJ).\n\nHe is fourth child of Eugenio Hernández Balboa and Susana Flores Fernández. He studied civil engineering at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education. He is married to Adriana González de Hernández with whom he has four children. In his earliest professional life he worked in the construction industry, where he became President of the Chamber of the Mexican Construction Industry and President of the municipal Commission the Water and Sewer System.\n\nHe was affiliated with Institutional Revolutionary Party in 1997. In 1999 during the presidential campaign of Francisco Labastida Ochoa, Eugenio Hernández was appointed as state’s campaign coordinator in Tamaulipas. The same year, he was elected as general secretary of the Directive Committee of the PRI party.\n\nIn year 2000 he was elected federal deputiy of the V Electoral District, in this way he became part of LVIII Legislatura where he was member in the Housing Commission and in Water resources one, as such he introduced the bill of reformation of article 46 of the Housing Workers Fund Law.\nIn that year he requested a permission of license as deputy to become a candidate in Ciudad Victoria’s mayor election, which he won. He took the mayor’s post in 2001.\n\nIn PRI’s internal election he was appointed as candidate of that party to participate in the Tamaulipas Governor election to be run in June 26, 2004. Thus, he took part in Governor’s election against the opponent candidates: Gustavo Cárdenas of PAN, Álvaro Garza Cantú of the alliance formed by Party of the Democratic Revolution and Convergencia, and Bruno Álvarez of the Labor Party. The elections were run on November 14 and Eugenio Hernández was elected governor with 58.26% of all votes.\n\nHe began his government on February 5, 2005. In May of that year, he introduced his Plan of Development of the State for the period 2005-2010, which was the guide for the public policy throughout his period of government, his government was based in three strategic lines: I) Social Prosperity; II) Competitivity and Productivity; e III) Strong institutions and Government of results.\nHis government was relevant for the constant fight against organized crime. He promoted an alliance with the rest of Mexican border states, the municipalities and federal government to avoid the traffic of arms and people between the United States and Mexico. As the results of this agreement, it was allowed to the Mexican army to settle down in Tamaulipas with thousands of troops to manage the fight against drug dealers and look after custom services in Tamaulipas. He expressed his agreement to make a public ballot question to put on people’s consideration the possibility to impose the capital punishment as penalty for kidnapping and to stop the violence from crime. At the final stage of his government, Hernández Flores remarked that 42% of police members have been destituted as they were untrustworthy.\n\nWith respect to relations with the US states bordering Tamaulipas, Hernández Flores was a principal critic of the immigration laws applied in Texas. He was against the barrier raised between the countries during his term in office.\nIn economic matters, he promoted the internal oil investments in Tamaulipas and the creation of jobs coming from that industry. Thus, when PetroleosMexicanos company announced that another refinery was going to be built in Mexico, Hernández Flores proposed that it be sited at Tamaulipas. It was ultimately decided that the refinery be built in Hidalgo state.\n\nDuring his term as governor, Fitch Ratings recognized excellent financial management in Tamaulipas. Nevertheless, after his government he was accused of generating an over-indebtedness.\n\nOn May 27, 2015, Hernández Flores was indicted on charges of money laundering alongside his brother-in-law Oscar Gomez Guerra by the United States Department of Justice (USDOJ), making him a \"fugitive\" wanted by the United States. The charges concern a US$30 million sum plus US$2 million invested in three properties in McAllen, Texas and a fourth property in Austin, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "18862023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862023", "title": "Experimenterende Danske Radioamatører", "text": "Experimenterende Danske Radioamatører\n\nThe Experimenterende Danske Radioamatører (EDR) (in English, Danish Amateur Radio Experimenters) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Denmark. Membership benefits of EDR include the sponsorship of amateur radio operating awards and radio contests, and a QSL bureau for those members who communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries.\n\nEDR represents the interests of Danish amateur radio operators before Danish and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. EDR is the national member society representing Denmark in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\nEDR publishes a membership magazine called \"OZ\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24442936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24442936", "title": "Field day (agriculture)", "text": "Field day (agriculture)\n\nA field day is a large trade show for agricultural industry and equipment, especially for broadacre farming. It contrasts with an agricultural show in that a show focuses on livestock and judging, a field day focuses on equipment, demonstrations and processes.\n\nA field day may include events such as ploughing competitions not usually associated with shows due to the larger space required. The events are good sources of agricultural information, as organizers can arrange for guest speakers to talk on a range of topics.\n\nNew Zealand National Agricultural Fieldays is held at Mystery Creek, Hamilton, New Zealand and attracts 1,000 exhibitors and over 115,000 visitors through its gates. Smaller shows, held annually in New Zealand's towns and communities, are generally called Agricultural and Pastoral shows (A&P shows).\n\nOn August 28, 2013 Mykolaiv National Agrarian University started a new tradition of field day in Ukraine.\n\nOn August 28, 2013 Field Day on technology of vegetables cultivation was held at the Educational, Scientific and Practical Center of Mykolayiv NAU together with the \"S-Rostok company\" and with participation of Mykola Kruglov, the Head of Mykolayiv Regional State Administration.\n\nGenius lies in simplicity, as well as the Mykolayiv NAU and the \"S-Rostok\" company's idea to combine efforts of university science, agrarian education and business in order to realize the common pilot project. The point is – the creation of experimental demonstration field with nearly 150 new breeds and hybrids of vegetable crops of the best-known world producers.\n\nThe world-famous companies in vegetable seed business from France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Japan, the USA, Israel, and the Netherlands (16 countries in total) participated in the event.\n"}
{"id": "14637102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14637102", "title": "Filipino Veterans Fairness Act", "text": "Filipino Veterans Fairness Act\n\nThe Filipino Veterans Fairness Act is the name of a number of acts that have been introduced to the United States Congress in both the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate since the 103rd Congress in 1993. Since then, nearly every session of Congress has seen a new version of the bill introduced. The purpose of these bills is to amend Title 38 of the United States Code to grant citizenship to Filipinos who have completed an enlistment in the American Armed Forces; at least some versions of this bill would grant citizenship to other foreign nationals under the same provisions. Currently, every version of the bill introduced has died in committee. Despite this, the bill has been re-introduced in nearly every session of Congress since 1993.\n\nFilipinos have fought as members of the American armed forces for over a century. Originally this was limited to U.S. nationals, Filipinos that had emigrated to the U.S. Under a special provision of the Base Agreement between the U.S. and the Republic of the Philippines, which allowed the U.S. to build bases and station troops in the host country, Filipino nationals are allowed to enlist in the U.S. armed forces. This arrangement is unique, under normal circumstances foreign nationals are not allowed to enlist in U.S. armed forces unless they are resident aliens of the United States. However, since Filipino enlistees are neither U.S. nationals nor resident aliens, they are not granted citizenship upon completion of their first enlistment, and are entitled to fewer benefits. Proponents of the bill often point out that thousands of Filipinos have enlisted so far (including many in the United States Army Forces in the Far East in World War II) and that ninety-percent choose to reenlist, even though they are the only non-citizen veterans that are not given citizenship upon completion of their enlistment. Since the bill has never made it out of committee, it is unknown what arguments might be used against it. The bill is widely supported by the Filipino-American community, as well as a US Conference of Mayors unanimous vote of passage for a resolution authored by Filipino-American Mayor Christopher Cabaldon that called for the full support of the Filipino Veterans Fairness Act. Most versions have been introduced by congressmen with Filipino-American communities among their constituents.\n\nSince 1993, versions of this bill have been introduced to congress by members of both parties. All but the most recent version are dead, most died in committee before even being scheduled for debate. The bill is typically assigned to a veterans affairs committee after its introduction. The most recent version, introduced in the House of Representatives in 2007 is in committee and was scheduled for debate. It was never voted upon.\n\nIn June 2007, Mayor Christopher Cabaldon of West Sacramento proposed a resolution to the United States Conference of Mayors in support of the Filipino Veterans Act. The Cabaldon resolution was adopted by unanimous vote.\nOn January 17, 2008, Senators Daniel Inouye and Theodore Stevens made a courtesy call on President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo at Malacañang and assured her of the early passage of the Filipino Veterans Equity Bill to benefit 18,000 surviving World War II veterans. Executive secretary Eduardo Ermita, defense secretary Gilbert Teodoro, acting foreign affairs secretary Francisco Benedicto, Armed Forces chief of staff Gen. Hermogenes Esperon, Jr., US Ambassador Kristie Kenney, and US Deputy Chief of Mission Paul Jones. Arroyo conferred the Order of the Golden Heart with the Rank of Grand Cross on Stevens contributing to \"the amelioration and improvement of the moral, social, and economic conditions of the Filipino people.\"\n\nThe Filipino veterans efforts in Washington, D.C., and in the US Congress, have been repeatedly supported by Hmong- and Lao-American veterans groups who served with U.S. forces during the Vietnam War in Kingdom of Laos, as well as various non-profit, and non-governmental organizations (NGO)s, including the Lao Veterans of America, Inc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23262893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23262893", "title": "Gambling in New Zealand", "text": "Gambling in New Zealand\n\nGambling in New Zealand is controlled by the Department of Internal Affairs. All public gambling is expected to return a portion of profits to the community. The largest proportion of the gambling industry is operated by state-owned institutions. Expenditure on gambling (losses experienced by players) was $NZ 2.034 billion in 2008 ($NZ 480 per capita), a tenfold increase over 1985 figures.\n\nBookmaking was declared illegal in New Zealand in 1920. From then until the introduction of the Totalizator Agency Board (TAB) in 1961, betting on racing was only available on-course.\n\nThe first \"Art Union\" was conducted in New Zealand by the Otago Art Society in December 1877, Both individuals and organizations subsequently used them as a way of raising funds.\nThe first national lotteries were established in 1933. They were known as \"Art Unions\". Prizes were relatively small, and in the early Art Unions the prizes were quantities of alluvial gold. As an example, the \"Golden Treasure\" Art Union of 1935 had 200,000 tickets with a top prize of £2000 ranging down to an 11th prize of £20 plus 400 prizes of £2. The low returns tempted many people to (illegally) purchase tickets in overseas lotteries such as the Australian Tattersall's lottery. With Art Union sales declining, a review of lotteries was undertaken by the Second Labour Government in the late 1950s, and in 1961 the National Government introduced the Golden Kiwi lottery.\n\nThe New Zealand Lotteries Commission was established in 1987. Its original product, Lotto, has since been supplemented by Instant Kiwi scratch cards, daily Keno and a Lotto variant named Big Wednesday. Lotto tickets became available online in 2008.\n\nThe Totalizator Agency Board, commonly called the TAB, is a sports betting organisation run by the New Zealand Racing Board.\n\nIntroduced in 1987, slot machines, commonly known as \"pokies\", are operated by charitable foundations and are mostly placed in hotels and bars. Maximum jackpots are regulated. In the year ending 30 June 2008, turnover was $10.096 billion, of which $9.158 billion was returned as prizes (player losses were $938 million). These figures represent a 9% decrease from the peak year of 2004. Pokies accounted for 46.1% of gambling expenditure (losses) in 2008.\nThe year to 30 June 2009 saw a further 5% fall in expenditure, to $889 million. There were 19,479 machines in 1,501 venues operated by 384 licensees, all of these figures being a decrease from 2008.\n\nSince 1 July 2009, all machines must have Player Information Displays, which inform the gambler how long they have been playing, how much they have lost, and which encourage them to take breaks.\n\nA 2010 study linked the prevalence of slot machines with high crime levels.\n\nIn May 2013 the Government announced it would allow casino SkyCity Auckland to install an additional 230 pokie machines and 40 new gambling tables, in exchange for a $402 million convention centre.\n\nThere are six casinos operating in New Zealand, the first of which opened in 1994:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40455753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40455753", "title": "Greenhouse gas emissions accounting", "text": "Greenhouse gas emissions accounting\n\nGreenhouse gas emissions accounting is a method of calculating the amount of greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted by a region in a given time-scale. A National Emissions Inventory (NEI) measuring a country’s GHG emissions in a year is required by the UNFCCC to provide a benchmark for the country’s emission reductions, and subsequently to evaluate international climate policies such as the Kyoto protocol (although the original has now expired, extensions have been agreed) as well as regional climate policies such as the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS).\n\nThere are two conflicting ways of measuring GHG emissions: production-based (sometimes referred to as territorial-based) or consumption-based. Production-based emissions take place “within national territory and offshore areas over which the country has jurisdiction”. Consumption-based emissions encompass those emissions from domestic final consumption and those caused by the production of its imports. This means the importing country takes responsibility for emissions related to production of the exporting country’s exports. By these definitions production-based emissions include exports but exclude imports and emissions embodied in international trade, whereas consumption-based emissions refer to the reverse (Table 1).\n\nWhich technique is applied by policymakers is fundamental as each can generate a very different NEI. Different NEIs would result in a country’s choosing different optimal mitigation activities, the wrong choice based on wrong information being potentially damaging. The application of production-based emissions accounting is currently favoured in policy terms, although much of the literature favours consumption-based accounting. The former method is criticised in the literature principally for its inability to allocate emissions embodied in international trade/transportation and the potential for carbon leakage.\n\nIt is now overwhelmingly accepted that the release of GHG, predominantly from the anthropogenic burning of fossil fuels and the release of direct emissions from agricultural activities, is accelerating the growth of these gases in the atmosphere resulting in climate change. Over the last few decades emissions have grown at an increasing rate from 1.0% yr throughout the 1990s to 3.4% yr between 2000 and 2008. These increases have been driven not only by a growing global population and per-capita GDP, but also by global increases in the energy intensity of GDP (energy per unit GDP) and the carbon intensity of energy (emissions per unit energy). These drivers are most apparent in developing markets (Kyoto non-Annex B countries), but what is less apparent is that a substantial fraction of the growth in these countries is to satisfy the demand of consumers in developed countries (Kyoto Annex B countries). This is exaggerated by a process known as Carbon Leakage whereby Annex B countries decrease domestic production in place of increased importation of products from non-Annex B countries where emission policies are less strict. Although this may seem the rational choice for consumers when considering local pollutants, consumers are inescapably affected by global pollutants such as GHG, irrespective of where production occurs. Although emissions have slowed since 2007 as a result of the global financial crisis, the longer term trend of increased emissions is likely to resume.\n\nToday, much international effort is put into slowing the anthropogenic release of GHG and resulting climate change. In order to set benchmarks and emissions targets for - as well as monitor and evaluate the progress of - international and regional policies, the accurate measurement of each country’s NEI becomes imperative.\n\nAs production-based emissions accounting is currently favoured in policy terms, its methodology is well established. Emissions are calculated not directly but indirectly from fossil fuel usage and other relevant processes such as industry and agriculture according to 2006 guidelines issued by the IPCC for GHG reporting. The guidelines span numerous methodologies dependent on the level of sophistication (Tiers 1-3 in Table 2). The simplest methodology combines the extent of a human activity with a coefficient quantifying the emissions from that activity, known as an ‘emission factor’. For example to estimate emissions from the energy sector (typically contributing over 90% of CO2 emissions and 75% of all GHG emissions in developed countries) the quantity of fuels combusted is combined with an emission factor - the level of sophistication increasing with the accuracy and complexity of the emission factor. Table 2 outlines how the UK implements these guidelines to estimate some of its emissions-producing activities.\nConsumption-based emissions accounting has an equally established methodology using Input-Output Tables. These “display the interconnection between different sectors of production and allow for a tracing of the production and consumption in an economy” and were originally created for national economies. However, as production has become increasingly international and the import/export market between nations has flourished, Multi-Regional Input-Output (MRIO) models have been developed. The unique feature of MRIO is allowing a product to be traced across its production cycle, “quantifying the contributions to the value of the product from different economic sectors in various countries represented in the model. It hence offers a description of the global supply chains of products consumed”. From this, assuming regional- and industry-specific data for CO emissions per unit of output are available, the total amount of emissions for the product can be calculated, and therefore the amount of emissions the final consumer is allocated responsibility for.\n\nThe two methodologies of emissions accounting begin to expose their key differences. Production-based accounting is transparently consistent with GDP, whereas consumption-based accounting (more complex and uncertain) is consistent with national consumption and trade. However, the most important difference is that the later covers global emissions - including those ‘embodied’ emissions that are omitted in production-based accounting - and offers globally based mitigation options. Thus the attribution of emissions embodied in international trade is the crux of the matter.\n\nFigure 1 and Table 3 show extent of emissions embodied in international trade and thus their importance when attempting emissions reductions. Figure 1 shows the international trade flows of the top 10 countries with largest trade fluxes in 2004 and illustrates the dominance of trade from developing countries (principally China, Russia and India) to developed countries (principally USA, EU and Japan). Table 3 supports this showing that the traded emissions in 2008 total 7.8 gigatonnes (Gt) with a net CO emissions trade from developing to developed countries of 1.6 Gt.\n\nTable 3 also shows how these processes of production, consumption and trade have changed from 1990 (commonly chosen for baseline levels) to 2008. Global emissions have risen 39%, but in the same period developed countries seem to have stabilized their domestic emissions, whereas developing countries’ domestic emissions have doubled. This ‘stabilization’ is arguably misleading, however, if the increased trade from developing to developed countries is considered. This has increased from 0.4 Gt CO to 1.6 Gt CO - a 17%/year average growth meaning 16 Gt CO have been traded from developing to developed countries between 1990-2008. Assuming a proportion of the increased production in developing countries is to fulfil the consumption demands of developed countries, the process known as carbon leakage becomes evident. Thus, including international trade (i.e. the methodology of consumption-based accounting) reverses the apparent decreasing trend in emissions in developed countries, changing a 2% decrease (as calculated by production-based accounting) into a 7% increase across the time period. This point is only further emphasized when these trends are studied at a less aggregated scale.\nFigure 2 shows the percentage surplus of emissions as calculated by production-based accounting over consumption-based accounting. In general, production-based accounting proposes lower emissions for the EU and OECD countries (developed countries) and higher emissions for BRIC and RoW (developing countries). However, consumption-based accounting proposes the reverse with lower emissions in BRIC and RoW, and higher emissions in EU and OECD countries. This led Boitier to term EU and OECD ‘CO consumers’ and BRIC and RoW ‘CO producers’.\n\nThe large difference in these results is corroborated by further analysis. The EU-27 in 1994 counted emissions using the consumption-based approach at 11% higher than those counted using the production-based approach, this difference rising to 24% in 2008. Similarly OECD countries reached a peak variance of 16% in 2006 whilst dropping to 14% in 2008. In contrast, although RoW starts and ends relatively equal, in the intervening years it is a clear CO producer, as are BRIC with an average consumption-based emissions deficit of 18.5% compared to production-based emissions.\n\nPeters and Hertwich completed a MRIO study to calculate emissions embodied in international trade using data from the 2001 Global Trade Analysis Program (GTAP). After manipulation, although their numbers are slightly more conservative (EU 14%; OECD 3%; BRIC 16%; RoW 6%) than Boitier the same trend is evident - developed countries are CO consumers and developing countries are CO producers. This trend is seen across the literature and supporting the use of consumption-based emissions accounting in policy-making decisions.\n\nConsumption-based emissions accounting may be deemed superior as it incorporates embodied emissions currently ignored by the UNFCCC preferred production-based accounting. Other key advantages include: extending mitigation options, covering more global emissions through increased participation, and inherently encompassing policies such as the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).\n\nUnder the production-based system a country is punished for having a pollution intensive resource base. If this country has pollution intensive exports, such as Norway where 69% of its CO emissions are the result of production for export, a simple way to meet its emissions reductions set out under Kyoto would be to reduce its exports. Although this would be environmentally advantageous, it would be economically and politically harmful as exports are an important part of a country’s GDP. However, by having appropriate mechanisms in place, such as a harmonized global tax, border-tax adjustment or quotas, a consumption-based accounting system could shift the comparative advantage towards a decision that includes environmental factors. The tax most discussed is based on the carbon content of the fossil fuels used to produce and transport the product, the greater the level of carbon used the more tax being charged. If a country did not voluntarily participate then a border tax could be imposed on them. This system would have the effect of embedding the cost of environmental load in the price of the product and therefore market forces would shift production to where it is economically and environmentally preferable, thus reducing GHG emissions.\n\nIn addition to reducing emissions directly this system may also alleviate competitiveness concerns in twofold ways: firstly, domestic and foreign producers are exposed to the same carbon tax; and secondly, if multiple countries are competing for the same export market they can promote environmental performance as a marketing tool. A loss of competitiveness resulting from the absence of legally binding commitments for non-Annex B countries was the principal reason the USA and Australia, two heavily emitting countries, did not originally ratify the Kyoto protocol (Australia later ratified in 2007). By alleviating such concerns more countries may participate in future climate policies resulting in a greater percentage of global emissions being covered by legally binding reduction policies. Furthermore, as developed countries are currently expected to reduce their emissions more than developing countries, the more emissions are (fairly) attributed to developed countries the more they become covered by legally bound reduction policies. Peters argues that this last prediction means that consumption-based accounting would advantageously result in greater emissions reductions irrespective of increased participation.\n\nThe CDM is a flexible mechanism set up under the Kyoto Protocol with the aim of creating ‘Carbon Credits’ for trade in trading schemes such as the EU ETS. Despite coming under heavy criticism (see Evans, p134-135; and Burniaux et al., p58-65), the theory is that as the marginal cost of environmental abatement is lower in non-Annex B countries a scheme like this will promote technology transfer from Annex B to non-Annex B countries resulting in cheaper emissions reductions. Because under consumption-based emissions accounting a country is responsible for the emissions caused by its imports, it is important for the importing country to encourage good environmental behaviour and promote the cleanest production technologies available in the exporting country. Therefore, unlike the Kyoto Protocol where the CDM was added later, consumption-based emissions accounting inherently promotes clean development in the foreign country because of the way it allocates emissions. One loophole that remains relevant is ‘carbon colonialism’ whereby developed countries do not mitigate the underlying problem but simply continue to increase consumption offsetting this by exploiting the abatement potential of developing countries.\n\nDespite its advantages consumption-based emissions accounting is not without its drawbacks. These were highlighted above and in Table 1 and are principally: greater uncertainty, greater complexity requiring more data not always available, and requiring greater international collaboration.\n\nUncertainty derives from three main reasons: production-based accounting is much closer to statistical sources and GDP which are more assured; the methodology behind consumption-based accounting requires an extra step over production-based accounting, this step inherently incurring further doubt; and consumption-based accounting includes data from all trading partners of a particular country which will contain different levels of accuracy. The bulk of data required is its second pitfall as in some countries the lack of data means consumption-based accounting is not possible. However, it must be noted levels and accuracy of data will improve as more and better techniques are developed and the scientific community produce more data sets - examples including the recently launched global databases: EORA from the University of Sydney, EXIOPOL and WIOD databases from European consortia, and the Asian IDE-JETRO. In the short term it will be important to attempt to quantify the level of uncertainty more accurately.\n\nThe third problem is that consumption-based accounting requires greater international collaboration to deliver effective results. A Government has the authority to implement policies only over emissions it directly generates. In consumption-based accounting emissions from different geo-political territories are allocated to the importing country. Although the importing country can indirectly oppose this by changing its importing habits or by applying a border tax as discussed, only by greater international collaboration, through an international dialogue such as the UNFCCC, can direct and meaningful emissions reductions be enforced.\n\nThus far it has been implied that one must implement either production-based accounting or consumption-based accounting. However, there are arguments that the answer lies somewhere in the middle i.e. emissions should be shared between the importing and exporting countries. This approach asserts that although it is the final consumer that ultimately initiates the production, the activities that create the product and associated pollution also contribute to the producing country’s GDP. This topic is still developing in the literature principally through works by Rodrigues et al., Lenzen et al., Marques et al. as well as through empirical studies by such as Andrew and Forgie. Crucially it proposes that at each stage of the supply chain the emissions are shared by some pre-defined criteria between the different actors involved.\n\nWhilst this approach of sharing emissions responsibility seems advantageous, the controversy arises over what these pre-defined criteria should be. Two of the current front runners are Lenzen et al. who say “the share of responsibility allocated to each agent should be proportional to its value added” and Rodrigues et al. who say it should be based on “the average between an agent's consumption-based responsibility and income-based responsibility” (quoted in Marques et al.). As no criteria set has been adequately developed and further work is needed to produce a finished methodology for a potentially valuable concept.\n\nMeasuring a country’s GHG emissions is critical to combat climate change. It is clear that production-based emissions accounting, the currently favoured method for policy-making, significantly underestimates the level of GHG emitted by excluding emissions embodied in international trade. Implementing consumption-based accounting which includes such emissions, developed countries take a greater share of GHG emissions and consequently the low level of emissions commitments for developing countries are not as important. Not only does consumption-based accounting encompass global emissions, it promotes good environmental behaviour and increases participation by reducing competitiveness.\n\nDespite these advantages the shift from production-based to consumption-based accounting arguably represents a shift from one extreme to another. The third option of sharing responsibility between importing and exporting countries represents a compromise between the two systems. However, as yet no adequately developed methodology exists for this third way, so further study is required before it can be implemented for policy-making decisions.\n\nToday, given its lower uncertainty, established methodology and reporting, consistency between political and environmental boundaries, and widespread implementation, it is hard to see any movement away from the favoured production-based accounting. However, because of its key disadvantage of omitting emissions embodied in international trade, it is clear that consumption-based accounting provides invaluable information and should at least be used as a ‘shadow’ to production-based accounting. With further work into the methodologies of consumption-based accounting and sharing emissions responsibility, both can play greater roles in the future of climate policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "14616572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14616572", "title": "ICA meat repackaging controversy", "text": "ICA meat repackaging controversy\n\nA controversy surrounding the illegal repackaging of out-of-date meat led the Swedish grocery store chain ICA to take actions towards a better quality work in the stores. Prosecutors have launched a criminal investigation into four stores in the ICA supermarket chain, after a television documentary aired on December 5, 2007, revealed that they had repackaged out-of-date ground meat and put it back on the shelves in four of the largest hypermarkets in Sweden. ICA apologised, suspended all of its Christmas commercials and summoned all 1400 store managers to an emergency meeting in Stockholm.\n\nICA food stores in Sweden are all owned and operated independently, although operations are co-ordinated and wholesale operations are run centrally. ICA is 60% owned by the Dutch retailer Ahold, with the remaining 40% owned by Hakon Invest, which is majority owned by local store managers who are also franchisers of the ICA brand. In 2006, The Swedish division, ICA Sverige AB (literally: ICA Sweden Ltd), operated 1,397 retail stores, run by some 1,400 store managers. The largest stores are operated under the store brand \"Maxi ICA Stormarknad\"; these are hypermarkets with a full range of groceries as well as fashions, homewares, entertainment and electrical goods. Before the food safety irregularities were revealed, the ICA brand was regarded as one of the most trusted retail brands in Sweden, and the most trusted retail brand among the grocery store chains.\n\nThere has been a general prohibition of relabeling packed meat for many years in Sweden. The current legislation and a major part of the Swedish National Food Administration Regulations are based on European Union law. According to the National Food Administration, some 1,000 food safety inspectors make annually between 25,000 and 30,000 inspections in the country. As regards to the retail market, the local municipalities are responsible for controlling and acting against food safety irregularities.\n\nOn December 5, 2007, Sveriges Television in its weekly investigatory documentary program \"Uppdrag granskning\" (literally: \"Mission: Investigation\") aired a number of secretly recorded video tapes of employees at four featured Maxi ICA Hypermarkets relabeling out-of-date ground meat, as well as grinding down other forms of meat past their 'best before' date to make ground meat (mince). In a video sequence viewers could watch an ICA employee picking up out-of-date pork chops from the floor, repacking and relabeling them. This could lead to infections such as Escherichia coli, Trichinellosis or Streptococcus suis.\n\nAccording to the rating institute \"MMS MediaMätning\", the documentary was one of the most watched television programs in Sweden that day, rating some 930,000 viewers.\n\nHans Hallén, a former quality control manager for ICA, revealed that the company knew that meat was being illegally repackaged as early as 2003. Hallén, who monitored ICA stores in southern Sweden from 2003-2005, said he had informed the company's managers of the exact practices that were exposed in the documentary program. According to Hallén, many stores engaged in practices such as repackaging meat in order to change the 'best before' date, saying that \"they even re-minced meat that had already been out on the shelves, before repackaging it and putting it back out on the shelves\". Sausage meats that had become old and sticky were also repackaged after rinsing, he said.\n\nHans Hallén, who was one of eight quality control managers employed by ICA until 2005, when the position was discontinued, said that \"(his) main job was to train staff in order to ensure that scandals of this kind would not occur\".\n\n\nThe store managers who were confronted with the footage defended themselves, saying that \"failures in routines and ignorance\" were behind the practice, and that employees must have done this \"on their own initiative\" after being told to do so by management. However, according to \"Uppdrag Granskning\", Markus Lönnroth had also said that \"everybody is doing this\". Although confronted with compelling evidence, Jonas Berg said that \"there is no evidence that [he had] done anything wrong\". On December 13, it was announced that Markus Lönnroth had resigned and transferred ownership of his hypermarket to ICA Sverige.\n\nTelevision viewers reacted strongly to the footage and the following day state prosecutors launched a criminal investigation. There have also been reports from at least two local food safety inspectors taking action. \"After yesterday's program there are clear suspicions that a crime has been committed,\" said Daniel Selin, health inspector at Nacka municipality, one of the four municipalities to report stores.\n\nICA chief press officer Staffan Ekengren said the company had provided all the information that it possessed about the stores to the National Food Administration. \"This is unacceptable, and I am surprised that it is so common and happens on such a systematic basis,\" he said, adding that it was \"a clear breach\" of the law. Ekengren said that ICA quality control managers are to visit the relevant stores at the weekend to hold meetings with those in charge. He also said that ICA's 1,400 independent store managers were to be summoned to an emergency conference with focus on food safety and ethics. Although the independent status of the ICA stores means that there is no possibility of sanctions, Ekengren said the incidents \"make it relevant to discuss\" whether a system of sanctions could be introduced. \"These are large, successful stores which have acted in a completely irresponsible manner,\" he added. \"We have had serious conversations with the merchants involved. They are naturally aware that a very major error has occurred,\" said Ekengren.\n\nOn December 6, ICA decided to suspend all its Christmas commercials, and only focus on the meat packing scandal. After criminal charges were brought against four of its stores, ICA issued an extended apology to its customers on its website. On December 10 there were reports of similar food safety irregularities also at ICA's main competing grocery store chains; Coop Norden and Axfood (with its store brands Hemköp and Willy's). According to Axfood, at least two of the chain's store managers have been fired due to illegal repacking of meat. On December 11, the Swedish National Food Administration filed criminal charges against the four Maxi ICA Hypermarkets where the irregularities had been revealed by the documentary for breach against the Food Safety Act and fraud.\n\nOn December 11, more than 1,000 of ICA's 1,400 Swedish store managers summoned at the emergency meeting in Stockholm, where CEO Kenneth Bengtsson said that the food safety irregularities had occurred also outside the four stores covered by the investigatory documentary. It was reported that ICA decided on \"zero-tolerance\" against food safety irregularities, as well as the introduction of an annual 3,000 un-announced self inspections throughout the network of ICA stores.\n\nAfter the food safety irregularities were revealed, sales of ground meat fell by up to 50% at some ICA stores. At the same time, a survey showed that 50% of the consumers have no trust in the food safety in the retail market.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10218725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10218725", "title": "Indian Filipino", "text": "Indian Filipino\n\nIndian Filipinos refers to Filipinos of Indian descent who have historical connections with and have established themselves in what is now the Philippines. The term refers to Filipino citizens of either pure or mixed Indian descent currently residing in the country, the latter a result of intermarriages between the Indians and local populations.\n\nIron Age finds in Philippines also point to the existence of trade between the Indian Subcontinent and the Philippine Islands during the ninth and tenth centuries B.C.\n\nAccording to the National Geographic's DNA study, \"The Genographic Project\", 3% of the average Filipino's genes are of South Asian origin.\n\nIndia had greatly influenced the many different cultures of the Philippines through the Indianized kingdom of the Hindu Majapahit, Khmer Empire and the Buddhist Srivijaya. For at least two millennia before the arrival of Spanish, Philippines was ruled by Hindu kings called Rajahs and Pramukhas. Numerous kings with written genealogies and Sanskrit names were found by Spanish warlords and friars.\nIndian presence in the Philippines has been ongoing since ancient times along with the Japanese people, and the Han Chinese, and Arab and Persian traders, predating even the coming of the Europeans by at least two millennium. Indian people together with the natives of the Indonesian Archipelago and the Malay Peninsula, who came as traders introduced Hinduism to the natives of the Philippines. Indian migrants have been crucial in the establishment of several Indianized Kingdoms or \"Rajahnates\" in the Philippines, Rajahates such as that of Butuan and Cebu. Indian Bania converts to Islam brought Sunni Islam to the Philippine islands in the course of trade, which was later enhanced and strengthened by Arab Muslim Sea traders to Mindanao and Sulu Sultanate.\n\nBy the 17th century, Gujarati merchants with the aid of Khoja and Bohri ship-owners had developed an international transoceanic empire which had a network of agents stationed at the great port cities across the Indian Ocean. These networks extended to the Philippines in the east, East Africa in the west, and via maritime and the inland caravan route to Russia in the north.\n\nSepoy troops from Madras (now Chennai, Tamil Nadu), British India also arrived with the British expedition and occupation between 1762 and 1764 during the Seven Years' War. When the British withdrew, many of the Sepoys (Army privates) mutinied and refused to leave. Virtually all had taken Filipina brides (or soon did so). They settled in what is now Cainta, Rizal, just east of Metro Manila. As of 2006, between 70 and 75 percent of Indians in the Philippines lived in Metro Manila, with the largest community outside of Manila being in Isabela province. The region in and around Cainta still has many Sepoy descendants.\n\nHowever, Indian business people started to arrive in larger numbers in The Philippines during the American colonial period (1898–1930s) - especially during the 1930s and 1940s, when many Indians and Indian Filipinos lived in Filipino provinces, including Davao. The longest serving Mayor of Manila, Ramon Bagatsing, was of Indian-Punjabi descent, having moved to Manila from Fabrica, Negros Occidental before the second world war.\n\nA second surge of Indian businessmen, especially Sindhis arrived in Philippines during the 1947 India-Pakistan partition.\n\nMost of the Indians and Indian Filipinos in the Philippines are Sindhi and Punjabi as well as a large Tamil population. Many are fluent in Tagalog and English as well as local languages of the provinces and islands. Many are prosperous middle class with their main occupations in clothing sales and marketing. Sikhs are involved largely in finance, money lending (locally called \"Five - six\" ), sales and marketing.\n\nOver the last three decades, a large number of civil servants and highly educated Indians working in large banks, Asian Development Bank and the BPO sector have migrated to Philippines, especially Manila. Most of the Indian Filipinos and Indian expatriates are Hindu, Sikh or Muslims, but have assimilated into Filipino culture and some are Catholic. The community regularly conducts philanthropic activities through bodies such as the Mahaveer foundation, The SEVA foundation and the Sathya Sai organization.\n\nMost Indians congregate for socio-cultural and religious activities at the Hindu Temple (Mahatma Gandhi Street, Paco, Manila), the Indian Sikh Temple (United Nations Avenue, Paco, Manila), and the Radha Soami Satsang Beas center (Alabang, Muntinlupa City, Metro Manila). The late \"priest\" (scripture reader in Sindhi and Gurumukhi) of the Hindu Temple, Giani Joginder Singh Sethi, was active in interfaith affairs, accepted visits by school students, and organised the first major translation of Guru Nanak's Jap Ji into Filipino (Tagalog), translated by Usha Ramchandani and edited by Samuel Salter (published 2001).\n\nMany Indians have intermarried with Filipinos, more so than in neighboring countries such as Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore, mainly because their populations are largely Muslim, and the Indians there (with the exception of Indian-Muslims) are averse to marrying Muslims in those host countries.\n\nIndian Filipino companies with the largest work force include Indo Phil Textile (1,800 employees), Global Steel (950 employees and 8,000 in Iligan), Hinduja Global (3,500 workers) and Aegis People Support (over 12,000).\n\nLots of Indian students mainly from southern part of India are studying in various parts of Philippines notably in Davao, where more than 5000 Indian students are currently doing their MD program from Davao Medical School Foundation.Other cities like Manila, Cebu, Legazpi also have considerable number of Indian students.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1741313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1741313", "title": "Italian Canadians", "text": "Italian Canadians\n\nItalian Canadians (, ) comprise Canadians who have full or partial Italian heritage and Italians who migrated from Italy or reside in Canada. According to the 2016 Census of Canada, 1,587,970 Canadians (4.6% of total population) claimed full or partial Italian ancestry. The census enumerates the entire Canadian population, which consists of Canadian citizens (by birth and by naturalization), landed immigrants and non-permanent residents and their families living with them in Canada. Altogether, Italians are the seventh largest ethnic group in Canada after French, English, Irish, Scottish, German and Chinese. They are also often termed as Italian-Canadians with a hyphen.\n\nThe first explorer to North America and to Canada was the Venetian Giovanni Caboto (John Cabot). His voyage to Canada and other parts of the Americas was followed by his sons Sebastiano Caboto and Janus Verrazanus (Giovanni da Verrazzano). During the New France era, France also occupied parts of Northern Italy and there was a significant Italian presence in the French military forces in the colony. Notable were Alphonse de Tonty, who helped establish Detroit, and Henri de Tonti, who journeyed with La Salle in his exploration of the Mississippi River. Italians made up a small portion of the population; in 1881, only about 2,000 people of Italian origin lived in Canada. A number of Italians were imported to work as navvies in the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway.\n\nA substantial influx began in the early twentieth century when over 60,000 Italians moved to Canada between 1900 and 1913. These were largely peasants from rural southern Italy and agrarian parts of the north-east (Veneto, Friuli). Approximately 40,000 Italians came to Canada during the interwar period of 1914 to 1918, predominantly from southern Italy where an economic depression and overpopulation had left many families in poverty. They mainly immigrated to Toronto and Montreal, both of which soon had large Italian communities, up to 2% of Toronto's population in 1921. Smaller communities also arose in Hamilton, Vancouver, Windsor, Niagara Falls, Ottawa, Sherbrooke, Quebec City, Sudbury and the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean area. Many also settled in mining communities in British Columbia, Alberta, Cape Breton Island and Northern Ontario. The Northern Ontario cities of Sault Ste. Marie and Fort William were quite heavily populated by Italian immigrants. The 1905 \"Royal Commission appointed to Inquire into the Immigration of Italian Labourers to Montreal and alleged Fraudulent Practices of Employment Agencies\" exposed the abuses of immigration agents known as \"padroni\".\n\nThis migration was largely halted after World War I, new immigration laws in the 1920s, and the Great Depression limited Italian immigration. During World War II, Italian-Canadians, as well as German-Canadians were regarded with suspicion and faced a great deal of discrimination. As part of the \"War Measures Act\", between 1940 and 1943, approximately 600 to 700 Italian-Canadian men were arrested and sent to internment camps, such as Camp Petawawa as potentially dangerous enemy aliens with alleged fascist connections – in what was the period of Italian Canadian internment. While many Italian-Canadians had initially supported fascism and Benito Mussolini's regime for its role in enhancing Italy's presence on the world stage, most Italians in Canada did not harbour any ill will against Canada and few remained committed followers of the fascist ideology. In 1990, former prime minister Brian Mulroney apologized for the war internment to a Toronto meeting of the National Congress of Italian Canadians.\n\nA second wave occurred after the Second World War when Italians, especially from the Lazio, Abruzzo, Friuli, Veneto, Campania, Calabria, and Sicily regions, left the war-impoverished country for opportunities in a young and growing country. Many Italians from Istria and Dalmatia also immigrated to Canada, during this period, as displaced persons (see Istrian exodus). Between the early 1950s and the mid-1960s, approximately 20,000 to 30,000 Italians immigrated to Canada each year. By the 1960s, more than 15,000 Italian men worked in Toronto's construction industry, representing one third of all construction workers in the city at that time. In the late 1960s, the Italian economy experienced a period of growth and recovery, removing one of the primary incentives for emigration.\n\nPier 21 in Halifax, Nova Scotia was an influential port of Italian immigration between 1928 until it ceased operations in 1971, where 471,940 individuals came to Canada from Italy making them the third largest ethnic group to immigrate to Canada during that time period.\n\nAs of the 2016 census 1,587,970 Canadian residents stated they had Italian ancestry — 4.6% of Canada's population, and a six percent increase from 1,488,425 population of the 2011 census. From the 1,587,970, 695,420 were single origin responses, while the remaining 892,550 were multiple origin responses. The majority live in Ontario, over 900,000, (seven percent of the population), while over 300,000 live in Quebec (four percent of the population) — constituting for almost 80% of the national population.\n\nAs of 2016, of the 1,587,970 population, 236,635 are Italian born immigrants, with 375,645 claiming Italian as their mother tongue.\n\nThe main concentrations of Canadians of Italian ancestry are in the following metropolitan areas and Census agglomerations:\n\nThe first multicultural radio station in Canada (CFMB) began broadcasting at Montreal in 1962. Founded by Casimir Stanczykowkski, a Pole, peak hours programming was nonetheless mostly in Italian. Four years later, in 1966, Johnny Lombardi founded a similar radio station (CHIN) in Toronto. CFMB has become a cultural bulwark for Italians in Montreal; however, the station's programming is often criticized as being geared only toward the older generations. Hardly any new pop songs from Italy, for instance, receive airtime, and older songs from the 1970s and 1980s are usually privileged. A short programme on Friday afternoons, \"Spazio ai giovani\", was introduced to address these criticisms. In late 2011, Serie A and some Serie B also found a home in Toronto, thanks to \"Stereo Serie A Radio\" on Radio Regent. The weekly show was made accessible via podcast on iTunes, Stitcher and Castroller.\n\nDan Iannuzzi founded the first multicultural television station in Canada (CFMT-TV), which began operations at Toronto in 1979. Now owned by Rogers Communications, the service has spun off into two multicultural television services in southern Ontario: OMNI-1 and OMNI-2.\n\nTeleItalia, an Italian-language television service, was founded in Montreal shortly thereafter. TeleItalia shared airtime with other multicultural programming at the station but had the most and best timeslots. TeleItalia programming included programming purchased from RAI, the Italian state broadcaster, as well as numerous locally produced programmes, including the nightly newscast at six o'clock.\n\nIn 1997, a reform of the city's multicultural television station (CJNT) saw a drastic decline in the quality of all programming and major cuts to airtime. At one time, CJNT was on air for less than twelve hours a day. The CanWest Global company later purchased the station and has since improved programming. Nevertheless, there is now little Italian programming shown.\n\nTelelatino (TLN) of Toronto, is widely available through cable distribution. Though offering programmes in both Spanish and Italian, most of TLN's revenue (70%) is derived from the latter. TLN, along with RAI International, an arm of the Italian state broadcaster RAI, has recently been at the centre of a dispute over Italian-language broadcasting in Canada. Telelatino had carried since 1984 some RAI content in addition to locally produced shows and dubbed Spanish programming from Latin America. By the beginning of this decade, however, there was growing dissatisfaction with TLN programming, especially in Montreal. Critics in Montreal labelled TLN's locally produced shows too \"Torontocentric\" and poked fun at dubbed Spanish programming bought from Latin American stations. Most of these latter shows were soap operas filmed in the 1980s. Mediaset Italia is also available.\n\nIn 2003, RAI Italia pulled its content from Telelatino and petitioned the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) to set up its own channel. This effort was backed by Rogers Communications. The Italian community in Montreal was almost wholly in favour of admitting RAI. The Committee for Italians Living Abroad in Montreal (COM.IT.ES.), an arm of the Italian foreign ministry, led the campaign to have RAI admitted. The Italian community in Toronto, however, was divided. Some in Toronto saw the move as part of a scheme by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi to gain greater influence over the Italian-language media in Canada. Italian law provides the Italian diaspora votes in Italian elections and permanent seats in the Italian parliament. Unlike the more independent Telelatino, RAI was widely seen as pro-Berlusconi. Those in favour of the RAI in Montreal pointed out that TLN quickly replaced its RAI programming with shows bought from SKY, a private television network. Berlusconi is said to have much more control over his private TV companies than over the state-run RAI.\n\nIn November 2003, community leaders in Montreal led a protest march in Ottawa under the slogan \"RAI Now\". They then presented a petition with some tens of thousands of signatures in favour of their cause. The CRTC initially turned down the application allowing RAI International to broadcast in Canada, declaring it would be impossible to set up a domestic Italian channel if that came to pass. In Montreal editorials lambasting the federal government and the CRTC were published in the community newspapers and leaders spoke out again a perceived injustice. With a federal election set for the summer of 2004, one in which the Liberal Party did not seem guaranteed a victory, opinion makers in Montreal began asking if Italians were simply not sheep herded along by the Liberals. (The great majority of Italians in Montreal are Liberal and federalist). Many called on voters to vote against the Liberal party which was blamed for the CRTC's decision. Ultimately, nervous Liberal candidates signed a statement days before the vote, guaranteeing that RAI would be broadcasting within a year or that the laws would be changed to permit it. The Liberals won their election and in the spring of 2005, the CRTC reversed its earlier decision. RAI thus began broadcasting in June of that year.\n\nThe first Italian-language newspaper in Canada was \"Il Lavoratore\", an anti-Fascist publication which was founded in Toronto in 1936 and active for two years. Then came \"La Voce degli Italo Canadesi\", founded in Toronto (1938-1940) and \"Il Cittadino Canadese\", founded in Montreal in 1941, followed by \"La Vittoria\" of Toronto, in 1942-1943. After WWII came \"Il Corriere Italiano\", founded by Alfredo Gagliardi in Montreal in the early 1950s. \"Corriere Canadese\", founded by Dan Iannuzzi in 1954, is Canada's only Italian-language daily today and is published in Toronto; its weekend (English-language) edition is published as \"Tandem\".\n\nOther newspapers include \"Insieme\" (Montreal), \"Lo Specchio\" (Toronto), \"L'Ora di Ottawa\" (Ottawa) and \"Il Postino\" (Ottawa). \"Il Postino\" was established in 2000 by a young group of local Ottawa Italian Canadians to convey the history of the Italian community in Ottawa. \"Insieme\" was founded by the Italian Catholic parishes of Montreal but has since been put under private ownership. It nevertheless retains an emphasis on religious articles.\n\nMany of the older Italian newspapers are criticized, like CFMB radio, for only serving the interests of the older generations. Several trendier, more modern magazines or newspapers have thus been founded. Many are run by recent Italian immigrants to Canada and are geared towards the youth. \"Panoram Italia\" magazine, a bimonthly publication distributed in the Greater Montreal and Toronto areas, is the most popular among them. Most others have failed or are published sporadically due to financial problems. The movement to support these upstart newspapers, however, is fairly strong in Montreal, where many people under age 40 still read Italian.\n\n\"Eyetalian\" magazine was launched in 1993 as a challenging, independent magazine of Italian-Canadian culture. It encountered commercial difficulty, and leaned towards a general lifestyle magazine format before concluding publication later in the 1990s. \"Italo\" of Montreal is published sporadically and is written in Italian, with some articles in French and English, dealing with current affairs and community news. \"La Comunità\", while an older publication, was taken over by the youth wing of the National Congress of Italian Canadians (Québec chapter) in the late 1990s. It experimented with different formats but was later cancelled due to lack of funding. In the 1970s the trilingual arts magazine \"Vice Versa\" flourished in Montreal. In, 2003 Domenic Cusmano founded \"Accenti\", the magazine with an Italian accent which focused on culture and Italian-Canadian authors.\n\nItalian-Canadian literature emerged in the 1970s as young Italian immigrants began to complete university degrees across Canada. This creative writing exists in English, French, or Italian. Some writers like Antonio D'Alfonso, Marco Micone, Alexandre Amprimoz and Filippo Salvatore are bilingual and publish in two languages. The older generation of authors like Maria Ardizzi, Romano Perticarini, Giovanni Costa and Tonino Caticchio publish in Italian or in bilingual volumes. In English the most notable names are novelists Frank G. Paci, Nino Ricci, Caterina Edwards, Michael Mirolla and Darlene Madott. Poets who write in English include Mary di Michele, Pier Giorgio DiCicco and Gianna Patriarca. In 1986 these authors established the Association of Italian-Canadian Writers, and by 2001 there were over 100 active writers publishing books of poetry, fiction, drama and anthologies. With the 1985 publication of \"\" by Joseph Pivato, the academic study of this literature started, leading to the exploration of other ethnic minority writing in Canada and inspiring other scholars such as Licia Canton, Pasquale Verdicchio and George Elliott Clarke. The important collections of literary works are: \"The Anthology of Italian-Canadian Writing\" (1998) edited by Joseph Pivato and \"Pillars of Lace: The Anthology of Italian-Canadian Women Writers\" (1998) edited by Marisa De Franceschi. See also \"Writing Cultural Difference: Italian-Canadian Creative and Critical Works\" (2015) editors Giulia De Gasperi, Maria Cristina Seccia, Licia Canton and Michael Mirolla.\n\nOn October 25, 2012, the Government of Canada announced its support of a project highlighting Italian-Canadian contribution to Canada. Funding aimed at raising awareness of the contributions of Canadians of Italian heritage in the development and settlement of Canada was announced by Julian Fantino, Minister of International Cooperation and Member of Parliament for Vaughan, on behalf of Citizenship and Immigration Canada.\n\nCIC is providing $248,397 in funding under the Inter-Action Program to the Toronto district of the National Council of Italian Canadians (NCIC) to develop a curriculum intended for both primary and secondary level classes. The project is entitled \"Italian Heritage in Canada Curriculum.\"\n\n\"The Inter-Action program aims to create opportunities for different cultural and faith communities to build bridges and promote intercultural understanding,\" said Minister Fantino. \"This project will help promote a greater awareness of the many contributions of the Italian Canadian community to the building of Canada.\"\n\nThe curriculum will start with the Discovery of North America on June 24, 1497, and then turn to the various waves of immigrants that came to Canada from the 1800s to the present time. It will showcase Italian immigration to urban and rural areas across Canada and their contributions to the settlement of the west, then the building of railways, cities and infrastructure. The curriculum will recount the work of earlier generations of Italians, their plight during World War II when many were interned, and the contributions of more recent generations of Canadians of Italian heritage. It will also explore the wartime internment experiences of other cultural communities as well as their contributions to the building of Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3086671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3086671", "title": "Joseph Nicolosi", "text": "Joseph Nicolosi\n\nJoseph Nicolosi (January 24, 1947 – March 8, 2017) was an American clinical psychologist, founder and director of the Thomas Aquinas Psychological Clinic in Encino, California, and a founder and president of the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH). Nicolosi advocated and practiced reparative therapy, a pseudoscientific and controversial practice that he claimed could help people overcome or mitigate their homosexual desires and replace them with heterosexual ones.\n\nNicolosi described his theories in \"Reparative Therapy of Male Homosexuality: A New Clinical Approach\" (1991) and three other books. Nicolosi proposed that homosexuality is often the product of a condition he described as gender-identity deficit caused by an alienation from, and perceived rejection by, individuals of the subject's gender. Like all forms of conversion therapy, reparative therapy is pseudoscientific, based on faulty assumptions, opposed by mainstream medical and psychological practitioners, and potentially harmful to patients. He held a Ph.D. from the California School of Professional Psychology. Nicolosi was a founding member of the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH) and was its president for some time. NARTH is a professional association that promotes the acceptance of conversion therapy. He was an advisor to, and officer of, NARTH.\n\nIn 2012, California passed a law that banned the provision of conversion therapy to minors, including some of Nicolosi's existing patients. Nicolosi was named as a plaintiff in a lawsuit challenging the law on constitutional grounds but the law, effectively barring Nicolosi's clinic from taking on patients under the age of 18, was subsequently upheld. The Supreme Court later explicitly referenced this case.\n\nHe died in March 2017 at the age of 70 from complications from the flu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29016998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29016998", "title": "Julia Arnall", "text": "Julia Arnall\n\nJulia Arnall (21 November 1928) is a retired British-based actress. Born in Vienna, she spent her childhood in Berlin, where her father was an army officer. After the war ended, she married a British Army officer, Desmond Arnall, who was posted in Berlin. She emigrated to the UK in 1950.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2488970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2488970", "title": "Kathiri", "text": "Kathiri\n\nKathiri ( \"al-Kathīrī,\" officially the Kathiri State of Seiyun in Hadhramaut (\n\nThe Kathiris once ruled much of Hadhramaut but their power was truncated by the rival Qu'aitis in the 19th century. The Kathiris were eventually restricted to a small inland portion of Hadhramaut with their capital at Seiyun (Say'un). The sultanate entered into treaty relations with the British in the late 19th century and became a part of the Aden Protectorate. The Kathiri State declined to join the Federation of South Arabia but remained under British protection as part of the Protectorate of South Arabia. Al Husayn ibn Ali, Kathiri sultan since 1949, was overthrown in October 1967, and the following month the former sultanate became part of newly independent South Yemen.\n\nSouth Yemen united with North Yemen in 1990 to become the Republic of Yemen, but local sheikhs in Yemen are reported to still wield large de facto authority.\n\nThe first Prime Minister in the history of East Timor, Mari Alkatiri (\"mar'ī al-Kathīrī,\"), is a third generation descendant of immigrants from Kathiri, part of a significant migration of Hadhramis to Southeast Asia in the 19th and 20th centuries. This is reflected in his name (Alkatiri).\n\nThe Indonesian human rights activist Munir Said Thalib is also a descendant of immigrants from Kathiri.\n\n"}
{"id": "11496745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11496745", "title": "Koreans in France", "text": "Koreans in France\n\nKoreans in France numbered 12,684 individuals , making them the 3rd-largest Korean diaspora community in Western Europe, according to South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.\n\nKorean migration to France began in 1919, when the government of France issued work permits to 35 Korean migrant labourers. From a community of just 3,310 in 1988, their numbers more than tripled by 2000, and then grew a further 30% by 2007. However, from 2009 to 2011, their population shrank by 14%. The vast majority live in Paris — about two-thirds, according to 2011 data, compared with four-fifths a decade before — with the largest concentrations in the 15th arrondissement. There more than twice as many women as men; the population has grown more gender-imbalanced as compared to a decade prior. Unlike in the United States or Canada, with their large Korean American and Korean Canadian communities, few Koreans in France seek to naturalise as French citizens. Among all South Korean nationals or former nationals in France, 786 (6%) have become French citizens, 2,268 (18%) are permanent residents, 6,325 (50%) are international students, and the remaining 3,305 (26%) hold other kinds of visas.\n\nAside from South Korean expatriates, children adopted from Korea into French families form another portion of France's Korean population; most were adopted at between ages three and nine. The number of North Korean refugees has also been on the rise.\n\nKoreans in France are served by five Korean-language weekend schools, the oldest and largest of which is the Paris Hangul School, established 18 August 1974; it enrolled 170 students as of 2007. Four others, in Villeurbanne, Grenoble, Strasbourg, and Toulouse, were established between 1994 and 2000; they enrolled a further 78 students. A significant number also attend French universities; in total, about half of the Korean population in France are estimated to be students, falling from two-thirds a decade ago.\n\nNot many French people know that their country has a Korean community at all. In many cases, Koreans are mistaken for Chinese and thus lumped in as economic refugees.\n\nOnly about 200 of the South Koreans in France are members of internationally married couples consisting of a South Korean partner and a French partner. Such couples experience a number of cultural conflicts, most commonly over the rigour of their children's education.\n\nPortrayals in popular culture of Koreans in France include the 2004 South Korean television series \"Lovers in Paris\"; its popularity has resulted in an increase in the number of Korean tourists visiting France. A more recent one is Hong Sang-soo's 2008 film \"Night and Day\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2681952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681952", "title": "Kuku people", "text": "Kuku people\n\nThe Kuku are a tribe from South Sudan. They inhabit the agricultural lands of Kajokeji County in Central Equatoria State. The Kuku speak a Bari dialect, also called Kuku.\n\nThey are chiefly a farming people relying on mixed farming. During the rainy season they grow substantial food crops, mainly sorghum, (also known in Sudan as dura) maize, millet, cassava, sweet potatoes, and beans (loputu). In the dry season they manage a small scale of cattle, goats and sheep herding. The Kuku are good beekeepers. They also practice collective hunting during dry season. They go hunting with arrows and bows. They meet and prepare themselves. They tell everyone about it so that there is no problem. Warn other tribes to be ready for them. They also carry nets with them. The nets are very long and they make a semicircle when the animals are inside. They close in fast sending the animal to the net. The animal gets trapped and other hunters waiting will stab the animal and it dies.\n\nThe Kuku people were part of a larger group known Bari-. There was a good deal of in-fighting amongst the larger group and so they decided to spread out into places where each group felt more comfortable. The Kuku was the group that decided to move south and settle. There are rainmakers who are very famous in the tribe. After the first Sudanese civil war in 1972, there was an agreement amongst south Sudanese groups, and prominent members of the Kuku joined south Sudan's leadership.\n\nKuku have no centralized form of administrative authority. Their administrative system emerges from bottom to top as follows:\n\n\nWith their strong belief in God and God's works through their ancestors, the Kuku tribe has their chiefs associated with water. These chiefs are hence, responsible for rain controls during the crop growing seasons of the year.\n\nThe land of the Kuku people is called Kuku and the administrative coverage area, which is the County, is given the name Kajo-Keji, after the name of the tribe’s chief (Kajok-Köji) who was in power during the British rule in the Sudan. Kajo-Keji lies in the southernmost part of the Southern Sudan near the Uganda border districts of Moyo and Yumbe. It has an area of almost 112,600 km² and composes of five administrative local areas known as Payams. These are:\nAt the border to Moyo, there is a remarkable landmark called Jale Hill. It is a historically renowned hill which is known to both the Kuku and their Ma'di neighbours.\n\nThe Kuku people speak a very similar language to some of the other groups in South Sudan like the Bari tribe. They speak the Bari language which originated from the Bari tribe. Their script was developed when the British colonized Sudan. They write using the Latin alphabet. In addition, they have a few other letters, and some letters familiar to English are omitted. Some letters that are not included like F and C. In their language, anything you pronounce has its own way of saying it. The way you pronounce it is totally unique according to the tribe.\n\nAlphabet:\nA E I O U Ö – B D G J K L – M N P R S T – W Y ’B ’D Ý Ŋ – NY GB KP (capitals)\n\nWords and meanings:\n\nThey only use good morning during morning hours till noon and good evening through the afternoon till night.\n\nNames that are given to a newborn child have many different meanings. The name of the first child is decided by the father unless he says otherwise.\n\nThe Kuku agricultural lifestyle is reflected in their religious belief and practices. They strongly believe that there is only one God and he lives somewhere above the skies. In practice, they believe that all happenings to a family, a clan or the whole tribe take place as a result of their deeds. God, who is merciful and kind, speaks and acts to the people through their ancestors. The word for God in Kuku language is Ŋun and for man is ŋuto analyzed as Ŋutu or separated into two words as Ŋu tu. The word \"tu\" in Kuku means exact. Ŋutu then gives the meaning of exact image of God. Ŋun is invisible and therefore speaks and acts to the people in spirit. The Kuku people believe that Ŋun sends strong messages to the people through the spirits of their ancestors. The word for Spirit in Kuku language is Mulökötyo. There are two types of spirits, good and bad. Good spirits are called Mulökö Lo’but٫ and bad spirits are called Mulökö Lorok.\n\n\nWith the penetration of Christianity missionary activity into southern Sudan, the Kuku traditional belief and religious lifestyle have been replaced with many Western Christian traditions.\n\nThere are different types of dances performed by the Kuku tribe. Young members of the tribe often do a rain dance when there is a drought. Elders sometimes participate when they really want/need to. There are dances of mourning during funerals. Family members of the deceased abstain from dancing to show their grief. After a bountiful harvest, the whole community gathers and dances to show their happiness and thanks to the Spirits and God.\n\nThey make baskets from reeds and long grasses that they obtain from the landscape around them. They rarely use color for decoration in their tribe. Other handicrafts include making containers from gourds or other big fruits and from animal skin.\n\nThe Kuku are very fond of songs. They create songs for all kinds of subjects. Each and every song expresses a certain intense feeling. Most of the songs are based on true stories. For them, anything can be made into a song. While story-telling, the Kuku largely use animals as characters in their stories. Elders are often the ones who tell these stories to the children.\n\nFor housing, they get bamboo from the mountains for their roofing and thatch it with grass. The walls are made from mud taken from an anti hill and neatly speared with soil taken from a river back to help keep the temperature cool inside.\n\nFor clothing today, they use modern Western clothing. Previously, they used fiber from trees that is flattened out and then wrapped around their bodies. They also used animal skin as clothing. They only used to cover the necessary parts of the body, like their midsection. They walked around barefoot. During special occasions, some of them wear a cow tail on their wrists for style. Sometimes, they wear feathers on their heads. The feathers come from a variety of birds, and the type or quantity worn shows status. Earrings for women are made using pieces of scrap metal.\n\nFor body art, men have a choice to burn a scar onto their body in a design they desire. Scarification is a personal choice and not an obligation. It is done as body decoration for others to admire. Only men are allowed to do this practice.\n\nThe Kuku play a game that is very similar to baseball called wuri. It involves hitting a hard fruit with a stick and running. The rules are exactly the same as baseball.\n\nElders play a game that they play on the ground. They make many indents and then use rocks (small gravels) as characters in their games. The game is called \"soroo\".\n\nChildren stay away from elders as a sign of respect. They are not supposed to talk with them at all. During some occasions, parents/adults will invite elders to come to their home for dinner.\n\nAfter or during good rains, the whole community comes together to celebrate. The same can be said for harvests.\n\nThere are not strict working hours in Kuku society. People can take a break when they desire and at any time of the day.\n\nThe Kuku have a special drink called yawanatakbe. It is an alcoholic drink made from sorghum. They eat foods like beans and meat everyday. Their first meal is usually at 7 in the morning,Lunch at around mid-day and dinner in the evening.\n\nWhen it comes time for a young man to be married, a family will go to a neighboring community and get information about a girl in another family that is old enough to get married. If her personality and reputation is acceptable, a dowry (usually a pre-determined number of animals) is paid to the bride’s family. The couple then are declared married by the elders. The couple will go and make a new house and stay there together, or the wife will go and stay with her husband in his parents' house.\n\nWhen a child is born, the community comes together and celebrates the new addition.\n\nAfter a person has died, the people are always gloomy, especially the family. They bury the deceased and then have a community meeting to bless the person and give him or her a good life with the spirits and God. They bury after two or three days normally. They talk about the cause of death with the relatives. If they come to a decision, the person is buried.This ceremony lasts for about a week.\n\nMen normally go hunting and farming during the day. Women spend most of the day working at farming and other chores. The women come home one hour earlier than men to start preparing the meal for the day. Young boys and girls are free to play and often assist in chores around the home. Occasionally, a father will take his son to teach him how to hunt and farm. A mother teaches her daughters how to do household chores. Adults, in general, must work very hard as a community to help the village to survive. Elders keep the law and order in the tribe/community.\n\nIn the village, the highest respect goes to the elders, then male adults, followed by adult women, and lastly, the children.\n\nA person is viewed highly if he has a wealth of money or animals, or if he has many children or wives. Others respect him because having a large family means that you have enough wealth to care for a large number of people. The importance of a person in a community is normally attributed to their wealth (puet), how they have helped the community, or their age.\n\nFor a spouse to be chosen it takes a very long time and there are a lot of procedures. First, the groom’s family goes to another community and finds a girl with a good background and personality. If the groom has a bad reputation, he goes very far to find a bride. Then the bride’s family usually decides to go to the groom's village and find out information about the groom's family, to learn about their status in the community. If the family of the bride agrees, they are officially married. The girl would normally say yes to show respect. In the old days, the girl does not have a say in who she wants to marry. If the guy was rich, he could have any girl he wanted. If she resists, she is kidnapped by the husband. Now, there has to be a yes on both sides for a marriage to happen.\n\nA family unit in the tribe normally consisted of a husband and two wives with children. Extended families live in separate housing. The average number of children is seven. Wives could be as many as the husband desired, but it was limited by his ability to care for them and provide the dowry. Since the arrival of Christianity, marriage has become monogamous. The father is always the leader of the family, and if he is gone, the first wife is then in charge of the family.\n\nAt first, the people of Kuku beliefs were pantheistic and often worshiped a river or a big tree in their village. People would go to these places whenever there was a need and they prayed to the rain God to give them water. Religion was not formal or important because they wanted to believe in something that would help them. As time has passed, most Kuku are Christians and now pray on a daily basis.\n\nIn the community, most decisions are made by the elders, and solutions depend on the situation. If another group comes and raids or attacks their group, they will fight back to get back what was lost. In some situations, all the elders will come together and discuss on an appropriate solution. If a law is broken, the person that commits the crime must pay a number of animals to the family or tribe that was offended. If a person has committed murder he must pay seven cows, four goats and five sheep. This will be given to the family of the deceased.\n\nCommunity rules include-\n\n\nAll children are supposed to be taught by their parents. They teach about life and what they should do for a good life. Before being colonized, moral education was the most important. There was no formal schooling prior to colonization. Children were taught at home. \"To know what to do in life is always the most important feeling in life.\"\n\nThe economy is almost entirely agricultural. Most live on farms in the village, but some become artisans like blacksmiths or potters. Wealth is largely measured in the number of animals. Other products that are made are spears, knives, gourds, drums, flutes, and guitars.\n\nCrops consist of sorghum, maize, rice, millet and other grains. Most other items are normally gathered from the bush. They also care for cattle, sheep, and goats. The people trade in communities; it is usually done through barter.\n\nWorks Cited\n\n\nJoseph Vanden Plas : 'Les Kuku (possessions Anglo-Egyptiennes)'. Brussels, 1910. \n\nFew edits by Gonda Kenyi Cilmo\n\n"}
{"id": "9671745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9671745", "title": "Leco language", "text": "Leco language\n\nLeco, also written as Leko, is a language isolate that, though long reported to be extinct, is spoken by 20–40 individuals in areas east of Lake Titicaca, Bolivia. The Leco ethnic population is about 80.\n\nApart from some brief lists of vocabulary, the main document for which Leco is known is a Christian doctrine compiled by the missionary Andrés Herrero at the beginning of the 19th century. That doctrine was published in 1905 by Lafone Quevedo, who used it as a source to make a grammatical description of the language. That work was virtually the only available document about Leco, until the linguist Simon van de Kerke (1994) located some speakers of the language and compiled some additional facts which enlarged the analysis of Quevedo.\n\nIn Grimes (1988), Leco is classified as a language isolate and is considered extinct. However, Montaño Aragón (1987) found some speakers of the language in the region of Atén and in Apolo, La Paz, in Franz Tamayo Province in the Bolivian department of La Paz, along Mapiri River in Larecaja Province (situated also in the department of La Paz).\n\nSome speakers were relocated by van de Kerke (1994–97). These speakers, mostly men, were older than 50 years and had not habitually used the language since a long time before that. Van de Kerke relates that the speakers do not feel sufficiently secure to conduct a conversation spontaneously in Leco.\n\nIn regard to the phonology of Leco, one can point out the following (based on van de Kerke, 2009: 289–291).\n\nLeco has six vowel phonemes: /a/, /e/, /i/, /o/, /u/ and /è/. The opposition among the first five vowels is distinguished in the data, but the opposition between /e/ and /è/ is found only in a limited number of words, as for example \"pele\" 'balsa' and \"pèlè\" 'name of plant'.\nIn regard to the lexicon and the classes of words in Leco, one can mention the following (van de Kerke, 2009: 293–297):\n\n\nIn regard to the morphological characteristics of Leco, one can point out the following (van de Kerke, 2009: 297–313).\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Leco, one sees productive processes of reduplication. With substantives, reduplication can be interpreted as 'a heap/much of', with adjectives, 'a high degree of'; with verbs the interpretation is very diverse and not always transparent; thus we have the reduplicate verb \"tiltilkach\" 'to be undone', derived from \"tiltil\" 'undone', which expresses a state or process, for which reason it is combined also with the auxiliary \"kach\" 'to be'.\n\nIn regard to the characteristics of spoken Leco, one can point out the following:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3486874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3486874", "title": "Malagasy people", "text": "Malagasy people\n\nThe Malagasy () are an Austronesian and Southeast African ethnic group native to the island and country of Madagascar. They are divided into two subgroups: the \"Highlander\" Merina, Sihanaka and Betsileo of the central plateau around Antananarivo, Alaotra \"(Ambatondrazaka)\" and Fianarantsoa, and the \"coastal dwellers\" elsewhere in the country. This division has its roots in historical patterns of settlement. The original Austronesian settlers from Borneo arrived between the third and tenth centuries and established a network of principalities in the Central Highlands region conducive to growing the rice they had carried with them on their outrigger canoes. Sometime later, a large number of settlers arrived from East Africa and established kingdoms along the relatively unpopulated coastlines. The Bantu Africans mixed with the Austronesian settlers and this resulted in the today Malagasy people.\n\nThe difference in ethnic origins remains somewhat evident between the highland and coastal regions. In addition to the ethnic distinction between highland and coastal Malagasy, one may speak of a political distinction as well. Merina monarchs in the late 18th and early 19th century, the Malagasy people united the Merina principalities and brought the neighboring Betsileo people under their administration first. They later extended Merina control over the majority of the coastal areas as well. The military resistance and eventual defeat of most of the coastal communities assured their subordinate position vis-à-vis the Merina-Betsileo alliance. During the 19th and 20th centuries, the French colonial administration capitalized on and further exacerbated these political inequities by appropriating existing Merina governmental infrastructure to run their colony. This legacy of political inequity dogged the people of Madagascar after gaining independence in 1960; candidates' ethnic and regional identities have often served to help or hinder their success in democratic elections.\n\nWithin these two broad ethnic and political groupings, the Malagasy were historically subdivided into specifically named ethnic groups, who were primarily distinguished from one another on the basis of cultural practices. These were namely agricultural, hunting, or fishing practices; construction style of dwellings; music; hair and clothing styles; and local customs or taboos, the latter known in the Malagasy language as \"fady\". The number of such ethnic groups in Madagascar has been debated. The practices that distinguished many of these groups are less prevalent in the 21st century than they were in the past. But, many Malagasy are proud to proclaim their association with one or several of these groups as part of their own cultural identity.\n\n\nRecent genetic studies on the Malagasy people showed that they have mixed African and Asian ancestries. Three Malagasy populations, Temoro, Vezo, and Mikea, have approx. 70% African ancestry and 30% Asian ancestry. \n\nIn a 2010 study, the Polynesian motif (mtDNA haplotype B4a1a1a) frequency occurs varied among three ethnic groups: 50% in Merina, 22 % in Vezo, and 13% in Mikea. There are two additional mutations (1473 and 3423A) found in all Polynesian motif carriers of Madagascar, hence named the Malagasy motif. The most likely scenario is that Madagascar was settled approximately 1200 years ago by a very small group, which consists of approximately 30 women; where 28 (93%) of them have Island Southeast Asian descent and 2 (7%) of them have African descent.\n\nThe closest Asian parental population of the Malagasy are the Banjarese and other South Kalimantan Dayak people of south east Borneo. Many people of Madagascar share heavy Malay genetic affinity because of their ancestors who were known to have come from Borneo (present Kalimantan, Indonesia) back in 7th or 8th century AD.\n\nThere is a community of Malagasy expatriates living in France and elsewhere in Europe.\n\nSome Malagasy were among peoples taken captive and sold as slaves in the Atlantic slave trade of the 18th and 19th centuries. The best-known community of descendants are in Morropón (Piura), a city in northern Peru; the Afro-Peruvians of Malagasy descent number about 7,000. They call themselves \"Mangaches\" or \"Malgaches.\" This section of Piura is called la Mangachería.\n\nMalagasy slaves were also transported during slavery times to Brazil and the US, but their number and the number of their descendants in these countries is unknown. It is likely most of these descendants are not aware of their Malagasy ancestry. Robert Reed Church, an African-American businessman in Memphis, Tennessee in the 19th century, was said to be of Malagasy descent through his enslaved mother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7470008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7470008", "title": "Mark Jenkins (artist)", "text": "Mark Jenkins (artist)\n\nMark Jenkins (born 1970) is an American artist who makes sculptural street installations. Jenkins' practice of street art is to use the \"street as a stage\" where his sculptures interact with the surrounding environment including passersby who unknowingly become actors. His installations often draw the attention of the police. His work has been described as whimsical, macabre, shocking and situationist. Jenkins cites Juan Muñoz as his initial inspiration.\n\nIn addition to creating art, he also teaches his sculpture techniques and installation practices through workshops. He currently lives in Washington, DC.\n\nJenkins was born in Alexandria, Virginia, but first began experimenting with tape as a casting medium for creating sculpture in 2003 while living in Rio de Janeiro. Wrapping the tape in reverse and then resealing it, he was able to make casts of objects including himself. One of his first street projects was a series of clear tape self casts that he installed on the streets of Rio de Janeiro. Jenkins became immediately interested in the reactions of the people and considered his installation as much a social experiment as an art project.\"\n\nIn 2004 he moved back to Washington DC and in 2005 he began working with Sandra Fernandez on the \"Storker Project\", a series in which clear casts of toy babies are installed in different cities to interact with their surrounding environment. Jenkins and Fernandez continued to create other installations using tape animals--dogs playing in litter, giraffes nibbling plastic bags from trees, and ducks swimming in gutters. Other outdoor projects which explore culture jamming include \"Meterpops\", \"Traffic-Go-Round\", and \"Signs of Spring\".\n\nIn 2006 Jenkins began the \"Embed Series.\" The tape casts were filled with newspaper and cement and dressed to create hyper realistic sculptural duplicates of himself and Fernandez. These new lifelike sculpture installations created confusion causing some passers-by to make calls to 911 which caused police and sometimes rescue units to arrive on his \"stage\".\n\nIn 2008 Jenkins collaborated with Greenpeace on an awareness campaign, \"Plight of the Polar Bears\", to draw attention to the melting Arctic ice caps. Jenkins created realistic figures appearing to be homeless people but with plush polar bear heads. The installations resulted in bomb squads being deployed to destroy the works subsequently creating controversy over the regulation of public space in the post 9/11 era.\n\nJenkins has participated in public art events \"Interferencia\" (Barcelona, 2008), \"BELEF\" (Belgrade, 2009), \"Dublin Contemporary 2011\", \"Inside Out\" (Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art, Winston-Salem, 2009),\"Living Layers\" (Rome, 2012) and \"Les Vraisemblables\" (\"Nuit Blanche\", Paris, 2014).\n\nIndoors Jenkins has exhibited internationally in galleries and museums as well as continuing his \"Embed Series\" in public settings such as cafeterias, schools and building lobbies. Solo shows include \"Glazed Paradise\" at Diesel Gallery (Tokyo, 2008), \"Meaning is Overrated\" at Carmichael Gallery (Los Angeles, 2009), \"Terrible Horrible\" at Ruttkowski;68 Gallery (Cologne, 2014), \"Moment of Impact\" at Lazarides Gallery (London, 2015), and \"Remix\" at L'Arsenal (Montreal, 2016).\n\nIn 2018, he and Fernandez created \"Project84\", in London, England. The work was designed to raise awareness of adult male suicide. \n\nCommercially, Jenkins collaborated with the fashion brand Balenciaga at stores including Colette (boutique) and Selfridges.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5857976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5857976", "title": "Miyana (community)", "text": "Miyana (community)\n\nThe Miyana are a Muslim Rajput community found in the state of Gujarat in India.\n\nThe Miyana are Rajputs who were converted to Islam during the rule of Allauddin Khilji in the thirteenth century. According to other traditions, they were Rajputs of Sindh who immigrated to Kutch during the period of Jadeja rule.\n\nThe Miyana are found throughout Kutch and Saurashtra. They speak both Kutchi and Gujarati. The community is sub-divided into a number of clans, the main ones being the Manek, Bhatti (Jesalmer), Dhona, Katiya, Mokha, Maman, Gagda, Mover (Mahur), Ladhani, Malani, Samani, Musani,Jeda,Traya, Manka, Khod, Makwana, Sadhwani, Kakkal, Baidmulla. Unlike other Muslim Rajput groups such as the Molesalam Rajput and Nayak in Gujarat, the Miyana do not practice gotra exogamy. Both parallel cousin and cross cousin marriages are preferred. The Miyana subsist by fishing and agriculture. Fishing is an important activity for the Kutch Miyana. They have their own caste association, the Sunatae Jamaat Maliya Miyana.\n\n"}
{"id": "2993072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2993072", "title": "Mongsen Ao language", "text": "Mongsen Ao language\n\nMongsen Ao is a member of the Ao languages, a branch of the Sino-Tibetan languages, predominantly spoken in central Mokokchung district of Nagaland, northeast India. Its speakers see the language as one of two varieties of a greater \"Ao language,\" along with the prestige variety Chungli Ao.\n\nA chapter in the anthropological monograph of Mills (1926) provides a grammatical sketch of the variety of Mongsen Ao spoken in Longchang village. Coupe (2003) is one of the few acoustic studies published on a Kuki-Chin-Naga language (only three exist). Coupe (2007) is a reference grammar of the language, based on a revision of his PhD dissertation (Coupe 2004).\n\nThe Ao alphabet is based on the Latin script and was developed in the 1880s by the Christian missionary Edward W. Clark for Chungli Ao. The system is not based on phonemic principles and does not represent tone. A Christian Bible was published using the orthography in 1964. Coupe (2003) suggests a more consistent alphabet for Mongsen Ao.\n\nA, B, Ch, E, I, J, K, L, M, N, Ng, O, P, R, S, T, U, Y, Z\n\nThis section describes the sound system of Mongsen Ao as spoken in Mangmetong village and is based on Coupe (2007).\n\nMongsen Ao has 6 vowels:\n\n\nMongsen Ao has 26 consonants:\n\n\nAo is a tonal language with 3 contrasting lexical tones:\n\nAll are register tones.\n\nThe generalized syllable structure of Ao is abbreviated as the following:\n\n\nV\n\n\n\n\nT\n\nAll syllables occur with one of the three tones. In a VG sequence, tone only occurs the vowel head.\n\nAo is an SOV language with postpositions. Adjectives, numerals and demonstratives follow the nouns they modify, whilst relative clauses may be either externally or internally headed. Adverbial subordinators are suffixes attached to the verb and the end of the subordinate clause.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165622", "title": "Neophile", "text": "Neophile\n\nNeophile or Neophiliac, a term popularised by cult writer Robert Anton Wilson, is a personality type characterized by a strong affinity for novelty. The term was used earlier by Christopher Booker in his book The Neophiliacs (1969), and by J. D. Salinger in his short story Hapworth 16, 1924 (1965).\n\nNeophiles/Neophiliacs have the following basic characteristics:\n\n\nA neophile is distinct from a revolutionary in that anyone might become a revolutionary if pushed far enough by the reigning authorities or social norms, whereas neophiles are revolutionaries by nature. Their intellectual abhorrence of tradition and repetition usually bemoans a deeper emotional need for constant novelty and change. The meaning of neophile approaches and is not mutually exclusive to the term visionary, but differs in that a neophile actively seeks first-hand experience of novelty rather than merely pontificating about it.\n\nThe opposite of a neophile is a neophobe; a person with an aversion to novelty and change. Wilson observes that neophobes tend to regard neophiles, especially extreme ones, with fear and contempt, and to brand them with titles such as \"witch,\" \"satanist,\" \"heretic,\" etc. He also speculates in his Prometheus Rising series of books that the industrial revolution and related enlightenment represents one of the first periods of history in which neophiles were a dominant force in society. Neophiles accelerate change because they like it that way.\n\nOpen-source advocate and programmer Eric S. Raymond observes that this personality is especially prevalent in certain fields of expertise; in business, these are primarily computer science and other areas of high technology. Raymond speculates that the rapid progress of these fields (especially computers) is a result of this. A neophile's love of novelty is likely to lead them into subjects outside of the normal areas of human interest. Raymond observes a high concentration of neophiles in or around what he calls \"leading edge subcultures\" such as science fiction fandom, neo-paganism, transhumanism, etc. as well as in or around nontraditional areas of thought such as fringe philosophy or the occult. Raymond observes that most neophiles have roving interests and tend to be widely well-read.\n\nThere is more than one type of neophile. There are social neophiles (the extreme social butterfly), intellectual neophiles (the revolutionary philosopher and the technophile), and physical/kinetic neophiles (the extreme sports enthusiast). These tendencies are not mutually exclusive, and might exist simultaneously in the same individual.\n\nThe word \"neophilia\" has particular significance in Internet and hacker culture. \"The New Hacker's Dictionary\" gave the following definition to neophilia:\n\nThe trait of being excited and pleased by novelty. Common among most hackers, SF fans, and members of several other connected leading-edge subcultures, including the pro-technology 'Whole Earth' wing of the ecology movement, space activists, many members of Mensa, and the Discordian/neo-pagan underground (see geek). All these groups overlap heavily and (where evidence is available) seem to share characteristic hacker tropisms for science fiction, music.\n\nResearch has uncovered a possible link between certain predisposition to some kind of neophilia and increased levels of the enzyme monoamine oxidase A.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23910513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23910513", "title": "No homo", "text": "No homo\n\nNo homo is a phrase used as slang at the end of a sentence to assert the statement spoken by the speaker had no intentional homosexual implications. The phrase is also \"added to a statement in order to rid [oneself] of a possible homosexual double-entendre\".\n\nThe phrase originated in American hip hop of the late 1990s as a way to quash any sexual and gender error or over boi step within lyrics. Brown states \"the phrase no homo arose in Hip-Hop homo lyrics of the 1990s as a discourse interjection to negate supposed sexual? and gender transgressions\".\n\nThe phrase ‘no homo’ used in a lyrical context comes as a pre-emptive maneuver to deflect any attacks on the artist's masculinity or heterosexual status. Within this context, \"No homo is not necessarily addressing homosexuality, but creating a verbal defensive in the musical battlefield that is wrought with signifyn' and bustin'. [Musicians] realize that a lyric, which is 'inadvertently gay,' is fodder for another's verbal attack on their masculinity within hip-hop culture. In an attempt to divert their own demasculinization, musicians presuppose those attacks at their masculinity\". \n\nAs with many attributes of hip hop culture, the use of 'no homo' has become integrated into the mainstream North American vernacular. One reason for this as proposed by Brown is that the integration and reception of the specific phrase 'no homo' into the conversational dialect of North American English was simple and due in part to its phonetic resonance. Due to its association to the display of hypermasculinity, the use of this phrase by young males can be attributed to the idea that \"gender has constantly to be reaffirmed and publicly displayed by repeatedly performing particular acts in accordance to cultural norms\".\n\nIt is often viewed as humorous, particularly when in relation to a double entendre.\n\nThe use of 'no homo' among women is far less commonplace. Brown states that \"women can and do use 'no homo,' although the instances are markedly less in frequency\" because it is not unacceptable for a female to commit a gender transgression or display femininity through their modes of speaking. Hip hop artist Nicki Minaj used the phrase 'no homo' in her song \"Baddest Bitch\", stating in the lyrics: \"And if he want some pussy that's a no-no/ I only fuck with bad bitches no homo\".\n\nAccording to some critics, no homo perpetuates the notion that homosexuality and gay people are lesser than heterosexuality and straight people.\n\nOthers have pointed out that the phrase is used among gay people. There are instances of LGBTQ people using no homo, though it is most often done so in a more ambiguous or critical light and does not reduce the homophobic qualities. For instance, it could be used by a gay man \"when complimenting a straight man on his appearance...distancing the compliment from a sexual advance, when a gay man feels threatened or seeks to protect himself from misunderstanding\" or if \"a homosexual man said 'my fiancé (another man) and I are going to get married this summer, no homo'\". In these instances, the phrase was used either as a protective measure for one's legitimate misunderstanding or as an ironic commentary on the phrase itself.\n\nSeveral social commentators have criticized the use of no homo in hip hop and in the mainstream. It has been said that the phrase \"uphold[s] an unhealthy relationship with homosexuality, a relationship based in fear.\" Fox News commentator Marc Lamont Hill encouraged the hip hop community to stop using no homo in its music.\n\nAt the same time, \"Slate\" columnist Jonah Mills suggested the use of the phrase is somewhat more complex. Weiner notes several hip hop artistssuch as Cam'ron and Lil Waynecultivate an extravagant and camp public persona while embracing homophobia, thus saying no homo can help expand established concepts of masculinity, and challenge the status quo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3321557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3321557", "title": "Norwegian Sign Language", "text": "Norwegian Sign Language\n\nNorwegian Sign Language, or NSL (Norwegian: \"norsk tegnspråk\", \"NTS\"), is the principal sign language in Norway. There are many sign language organizations and some television programs broadcast in NSL in Norway. The Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation airs \"Nyheter på tegnspråk\" (News in Sign Language) daily and \"Tid for tegn\" (Time for Signs) weekly.\n\nNorway is in the process of making NSL an official language.\n\nThe language is sometimes reported to be similar, or even identical to the sign language used in Madagascar. In fact, while Norwegian Sign Language may have influenced Malagasy sign language via the creation of schools for the deaf by Norwegian Lutheran missionaries, the languages are quite distinct. Out of a sample of 96 sign pairs, 18 pairs were identical between the two languages, 26 showed some level of similarity, and 52 appeared completely unrelated. It is not yet known to what degree the similarities are a result of direct borrowing, borrowing from a common source language (such as ASL or International Sign, mimesis of the thing they refer to, or sheer coincidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38758363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38758363", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Argentina", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Argentina\n\nOrders, decorations, and medals of Argentina include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2253827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253827", "title": "Professional fraternities and sororities", "text": "Professional fraternities and sororities\n\nProfessional fraternities, in the North American fraternity system, are organizations whose primary purpose is to promote the interests of a particular profession and whose membership is restricted to students in that particular field of professional education or study. This may be contrasted with service fraternities and sororities, whose primary purpose is community service, and general or social fraternities and sororities, whose primary purposes are generally aimed towards some other aspect, such as the development of character, friendship, leadership, or literary ability.\n\nProfessional fraternities are often confused with honor societies because of their focus on a specific discipline. Professional fraternities are actually significantly different from honor societies in that honor societies are associations designed to provide recognition of the past achievement of those who are invited to membership. Honor society membership, in most cases, requires no period of pledging, and new candidates may be immediately inducted into membership after meeting predetermined academic criteria and paying a one-time membership fee. Because of their purpose of recognition, most honor societies will have much higher academic achievement requirements for membership. \n\nProfessional fraternities, on the other hand, work to build brotherhood among members and cultivate the strengths of members in order to promote their profession and to provide assistance to one another in their mutual areas of professional study. Membership in a professional fraternity may be the result of a pledge process, much like a social fraternity, and members are expected to remain loyal and active in the organization for life. Within their professional field of study, their membership is exclusive; however, they may initiate members who belong to other types of fraternities.\n\nThe first professional fraternity was founded at Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky in 1819: the Kappa Lambda Society of Aesculapius, established for the purpose of bringing together students of the medical profession. The fraternity lasted until about 1858.\n\nOf the professional fraternities still in existence, the oldest is Phi Delta Phi founded at the University of Michigan in 1869; however, Phi Delta Phi changed its mission in 2012 to become an honor society for law school students.\n\nProfessional fraternities, in the United States fraternity system, are usually co-educational in accord with Federal Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (commonly referred to as \"Title IX\"). This federal law discourages discrimination on the basis of sex in any college or university receiving federal financial assistance. However, the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities are exempt from Title IX in section (A)(6)(a). The U.S. Department of Education (DOE) regulations adopted pursuant to Title IX also allow such an exception for \"the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities.\" (34 C.F.R. Sec. 106.14(a)).\n\nPrior to Title IX, many professional fraternities were all male and most professional sororities/women’s fraternities were all female. Several of these professional fraternities and sororities even considered themselves both professional and social organizations because they often emphasized the social aspects of their activities. During the ensuing years since the enactment of Title IX, single-sex professional fraternities and sororities became coeducational to conform to Title IX. Several organizations simply opened their membership both men and women. For example, Phi Chi (medicine) opened membership to women in 1973; Phi Beta (music and speech) opened membership to men in 1976; and Delta Omicron (music) opened membership to men in 1979. A few single-sex groups merged with other organizations, such as Phi Delta Delta, a women’s professional law fraternity, merged with Phi Alpha Delta (law) in 1972.\n\nDespite the fact that Title IX was enacted in 1972, there continues to be professional fraternities and sororities or their chapters that have not become coeducational and therefore, do not conform to Title IX. Generally, these groups still claim to be both professional and social organizations, for instance, Alpha Gamma Rho (men in agriculture), Alpha Omega Epsilon (women in engineering), and Sigma Phi Delta (men in engineering).\n\nSeveral social fraternities and sororities have membership practices of selecting their members primarily from students enrolled in particular majors or areas of study, including Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, Phi Sigma Rho, and Triangle. Nevertheless, these groups are social, rather than professional, organizations. Although they select members from students in a particular field of study, like a professional fraternity, they are single-sex social organizations because their purposes focus only on the social development of their members. Examples of groups that have been officially granted exemption from Title IX by the DOE to remain single-sex include Sigma Alpha Iota in 1981 and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia in 1983.\n\nMany professional fraternities, particularly those of the highest esteem and reputation, are members of the Professional Fraternity Association (PFA). This group resulted in 1978 from a merger of the Professional Interfraternity Conference (PIC) (for men's groups) and the Professional Panhellenic Association (PPA) (for women's groups). In 2013, faced with an increase in campus policies that require student organizations to take all students, the PFA adopted a resolution against All Comers policies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323158", "title": "Public works", "text": "Public works\n\nPublic works are a broad category of infrastructure projects, financed and constructed by the government, for recreational, employment, and health and safety uses in the greater community. They include public buildings (municipal buildings, schools, hospitals), transport infrastructure (roads, railroads, bridges, pipelines, canals, ports, airports), public spaces (public squares, parks, beaches), public services (water supply and treatment, sewage treatment, electrical grid, dams), and other, usually long-term, physical assets and facilities. Though often interchangeable with public infrastructure and public capital, public works does not necessarily carry an economic component, thereby being a broader term.\n\nPublic works has been encouraged since antiquity. For example, the Roman emperor Nero encouraged the construction of various infrastructure projects during widespread deflation.\n\nPublic works is a multi-dimensional concept in economics and politics, touching on multiple arenas including: recreation (parks, beaches), aesthetics (trees, green space), economy (goods and people movement, energy), law (police and courts), and neighborhood (community centers, social services buildings). Essentially, it represents any constructed object that augments a nation's physical infrastructure.\n\nMunicipal infrastructure, urban infrastructure, and rural development usually represent the same concept but imply either large cities or developing nations' concerns respectively. The terms public infrastructure or critical infrastructure are at times used interchangeably. However, critical infrastructure includes public works (dams, waste water systems, bridges, etc.) as well as facilities like hospitals, banks, and telecommunications systems and views them from a national security viewpoint and the impact on the community that the loss of such facilities would entail.\n\nFurthermore, the term public works has recently been expanded to include digital public infrastructure projects. The first (US) nationwide digital public works project is an effort to create an open source software platform for e-voting (created and managed by the Open Source Digital Voting Foundation).\n\nReflecting increased concern with sustainability, urban ecology and quality of life, efforts to move towards sustainable municipal infrastructure are common in developed nations, especially in European Union and Canada (where the FCM InfraGuide provides an officially mandated best practice exchange to move municipalities in this direction).\n\nA public employment programme (PEP)' or 'public works programme (PWP)' is the provision of employment by the creation of predominantly public goods at a prescribed wage for those unable to find alternative employment. This functions as a form of social safety net. PWPs are activities which entail the payment of a wage (in cash or in kind) by the state, or by an Agent (or cash-for work/CFW). One particular form of public works, that of offering a short-term period of employment, has come to dominate practice, particularly in regions such as Sub-Saharan Africa. Applied in the short term, this is appropriate as a response to transient shocks and acute labour market crises.\n\nInvesting in public works projects in order to stimulate the general economy has been a popular policy measure since the economic crisis of the 1930s. More recent examples are the 2008-2009 Chinese economic stimulus program, the 2008 European Union stimulus plan, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.\n\nWhile it is argued that capital investment in public works can be used to reduce unemployment, opponents of internal improvement programs argue that such projects should be undertaken by the private sector, and not the public sector, because public works projects are characteristic of socialism. However, in the private sector, entrepreneurs bear their own losses and so private sector firms are generally unwilling to undertake projects that could result in losses or would not develop a revenue stream. Governments will invest in public works because of the overall benefit to society when there is a lack of private sector benefit (a project that will not generate revenue) or the risk is too great for a private company to accept on its own.\n\nAccording to research conducted at the Aalborg University, 86% of public works projects end up with cost overruns. Some unexpected findings of the research were that:\n\nGenerally contracts awarded by public tenders will include a provision for unexpected expenses (i.e. cost overruns), that typically amount to 10% of the value of the contract. This money is only spent during the course of the project if the construction managers judge that it is necessary, and typically the expenditure must be justified in writing.\n\n\nIndividual programs:\n\n"}
{"id": "29378099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29378099", "title": "Race and ethnicity in Latin America", "text": "Race and ethnicity in Latin America\n\nThere is no single system of races or ethnicities that covers all of Latin America, and usage of labels may vary substantially. In Mexico, for example, the category mestizo is not defined or applied the same as the corresponding category of mestiço in Brazil. \nIn spite of these differences, the construction of race in Latin America can be contrasted with concepts of race and ethnicity in the United States. The ethno-racial composition of modern-day Latin American nations combines diverse Amerindian populations, with influence from Iberian and other European colonizers, and equally diverse African groups brought to the Americas as slave labor, and also recent immigrant groups from all over the world.\n\nRacial categories in Latin America are often linked to both continental ancestry or mixture as inferred from phenotypical traits, but also to socio-economic status. Ethnicity is often constructed either as an amalgam national identity or as something reserved for the indigenous groups so that ethnic identity is something that members of indigenous groups have in addition to their national identity. Racial and ethnic discrimination is common in Latin America where socio-economic status generally correlates with perceived whiteness, and indigenous status and perceived African ancestry is generally correlated with poverty and lack of opportunity and social status.\n\nIn Latin American concepts of race, physiological traits is often combined with social traits such as socio-economic status, so that a person is categorized not only according to physical phenotype, but also according to social standing. Ethnicity on the other hand is a system that classifies groups of people according to cultural, linguistic and historic criteria. An ethnic group is normally defined by having a degree of cultural and linguistic similarity and often an ideology of shared roots. Another difference between race and ethnicity is that race is usually conceptualized as a system of categorization where membership is limited to one category, and is externally ascribed by other who are not members of that category without regards to the individuals own feeling of membership. Whereas ethnicity is often seen as a system of social organization where membership is established through mutual identification between a group and its members.\n\nThe construction of race in Latin America is different from, for example, the model found in the United States, possibly because race mixing has been a common practice since the early colonial period, whereas in the United States it has generally been avoided.\n\nBlanqueamiento, or whitening, is a social, political, and economic practice used to \"improve\" the race (mejorar la raza) towards whiteness. The term blanqueamiento is rooted in Latin America and is used more or less synonymous with racial whitening. However, blanqueamiento can be considered in both the symbolic and biological sense Symbolically, blanqueamiento represents an ideology that emerged from legacies of European colonialism, described by Anibal Quijano's theory of coloniality of power, which caters to white dominance in social hierarchies Biologically, blanqueamiento is the process of whitening by marrying a lighter skinned individual in order to produce lighter-skinned offspring.\n\nBlanqueamiento was enacted in national policies of many Latin American countries, particularly Brazil, Venezuela and Cuba, at the turn of the 20th century. In most cases, these policies promoted European immigration as a means to whiten the population.\n\nAn important phenomenon described for some parts of Latin America such as Brazil and Mexico is \"Whitening\" or \"Mestizaje\" describing the policy of planned racial mixing with the purpose of minimizing the non-white part of the population. This practice was possible as in these countries one is classified as white even with very few white phenotypical traits and it has meant that the percentages of people identifying as fully black or indigenous has increased over the course of the twentieth century as the mixed class expanded. It has also meant that the racial categories have been fluid. Unlike the United States where ancestry is used to define race, Latin American scholars came to agree by the 1970s that race in Latin America could not be understood as the “genetic composition of individuals” but instead “based upon a combination of cultural, social, and somatic considerations. In Latin America, a person's ancestry is quite irrelevant to racial classification. For example, full-blooded siblings can often be classified by different races (Harris 1964).\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial period, Spaniards developed a complex caste system based on race, which was used for social control and which also determined a person's rights in society. There were four main categories of race: (1) Peninsular - a Spaniard born in Spain, (2) Criollo (fem. criolla) - a person of Spanish descent born in Mesoamerica, (3) Indio (fem. India) - a person who is a native of, or indigenous to, Mesoamerica, and (4) Negro (fem. Negra) - a person of African slave descent. There were also other caste groups like the Mestizos/Mestizas that had one Spanish and one Indian parent. The Castizos which had one Mestizo parent and one Spanish parent, the children of a Castizo were generally accepted as a Criollo. Mulatto/Mulatta were usually the ones with one Spanish and one black parent, if a mulatto was born in slavery they were considered slaves as well unless the mother was free then they would be free too.\n\nVery generally speaking ethno-racial relations can be arranged on an axis between the two extremes of European and Amerindian cultural and biological heritage, this is a remnant of the colonial Spanish caste system which categorized individuals according to their perceived level of biological mixture between the two groups. Additionally the presence of considerable portions of the population with partly African and Asian heritage further complicates the situation. Even though it still arranges persons along the line between indigenous and European, in practice the classificatory system is no longer biologically based, but rather mixes socio-cultural traits with phenotypical traits, and classification is largely fluid, allowing individuals to move between categories and define their ethnic and racial identities situationally.\n\nGenerally, it can be said that in scholarship, as well as popular discourse, there has been a tendency of talking about indigenous peoples in terms of ethnicity, about Afro-minorities and white socio-economic privilege in terms of race, and about mestizos in tems of national identity. It is now however becoming recognized that processes of identity formation and social stratification in regards to all population groups in Mexico can be analyzed both in terms of race and of ethnicity.\n\nThe large majority of Mexicans classify themselves as \"Mestizos\", meaning that they neither identify fully with any indigenous culture or with a particular non-Mexican heritage, but rather identify as having cultural traits and heritage that is mixed by elements from indigenous and European traditions. By the deliberate efforts of post-revolutionary governments the \"Mestizo identity\" was constructed as the base of the modern Mexican national identity, through a process of cultural synthesis referred to as mestizaje. Mexican politicians and reformers such as José Vasconcelos and Manuel Gamio were instrumental in building a Mexican national identity on the concept of mestizaje (see the section below).\n\nThe term \"Mestizo\" is not in wide use in Mexican society today and has been dropped as a category in population censuses, it is however still used in social and cultural studies when referring to the non-indigenous part of the Mexican population. The word has somewhat pejorative connotations and most of the Mexican citizens who would be defined as mestizos in the sociological literature would probably self-identify primarily as Mexicans. In the Yucatán peninsula, the word Mestizo is even used about Maya speaking populations living in traditional communities, because during the Caste War of the late 19th century those Maya who did not join the rebellion were classified as mestizos. In Chiapas the word \"Ladino\" is used instead of mestizo.\n\nSometimes, particularly outside of Mexico, the word \"mestizo\" is used with the meaning of a person with mixed indigenous and European blood. This usage does not conform to the Mexican social reality where, like in Brazil, a person of mostly indigenous genetic heritage would be considered Mestizo either by rejecting his indigenous culture or by not speaking an indigenous language, and a person with a very low percentage of indigenous genetic heritage would be considered fully indigenous either by speaking an indigenous language or by identifying with a particular indigenous cultural heritage. Additionally the categories carry additional meanings having to do with social class so that the term indigena or the more pejorative \"indio\" (Indian) is connected with ideas of low social class, poverty, rural background, superstition, being dominated by traditional values as opposed to reason. Commonly, instead of the term Mestizo, which also has a somewhat pejorative usage, the term \"gente de razón\" (\"people of reason\") is used and contrasted with \"gente de costumbre\" (\"people of tradition\"), cementing the status of indigeneity being connected to superstition and backwardness. For example, it has been observed that upwards social mobility is generally correlated with \"whitening\", if persons with indigenous biological and cultural roots rise to positions of power and prestige they tend to be viewed as more \"white\" than if they belonged to a lower social class.\n\nPrior to contact with Europeans the indigenous peoples of Mexico had not had any kind of shared identity. Indigenous identity was constructed by the dominant Euro-Mestizo majority and imposed upon the indigenous people as a negatively defined identity, characterized by the lack of assimilation into modern Mexico. Indian identity therefore became socially stigmatizing. Cultural policies in early post-revolutionary Mexico were paternalistic towards the indigenous people, with efforts designed to \"help\" indigenous peoples achieve the same level of progress as the rest of society, eventually assimilating indigenous peoples completely to Mestizo Mexican culture, working toward the goal of eventually solving the \"indian problem\" by transforming indigenous communities into mestizo communities .\n\nThe category of \"indigena\" (indigenous) can be defined narrowly according to linguistic criteria including only persons that speak one of Mexico's 62 indigenous languages, this is the categorization used by the National Mexican Institute of Statistics. It can also be defined broadly to include all persons who self-identify as having an indigenous cultural background, whether or not they speak the language of the indigenous group they identify with. This means that the percentage of the Mexican population defined as \"indigenous\" varies according to the definition applied, cultural activists have referred to the usage of the narrow definition of the term for census purposes as \"statistical genocide\".\n\nIn Mexico in the post-revolutionary period, Mestizaje was a racial ideology that combined elements of the Euro-American ideologies of the racial superiority of the \"white race\" with the social reality of a postcolonial, multiracial setting. It promoted the use of planned miscegenation as a eugenic strategy designed to improve the overall quality of the population by multiplying white genetic material to the entire population. This ideology was very different from the way the eugenics debate was carried out in Europe and North America, where racial \"purity\" and anti-miscegenation legislation was the eugenic strategy of choice. The ideology of Mestizaje came from the long tradition of tolerance of racial mixing that existed in the Spanish colonies.\n\nThe ideology was also a part of the strategy of forging a national identity to serve as the basis of a modern nation state, and for this reason mestizaje also became a way of fusing disparate cultural identities into a single national ethnicity.\n\nThe ideology was influently worded by José Vasconcelos who in his La Raza Cósmica formulated a vision of how a \"race of the future\" would be created by mixing the mongoloid, negroid, and caucasian races. As the place where this mixing was already well underway, Mexico, and Latin America in general, was the center of the creation of this new and improved species of human beings, the mestizo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32608553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32608553", "title": "Racism in Brazil", "text": "Racism in Brazil\n\nToday, there are more than 75 million people of African descent living in Brazil, which currently gives it the second largest black population in the world. However, despite its large black population it was also the last country in the western hemisphere to abolish slavery, in 1888. Brazil proudly refers to itself as a \"Racial Democracy,\" originally coined by Brazilian sociologist Gilberto Freyre in his work \"Casa-Grande & Senzala\" (The Masters and the Slaves), published in 1933. Additionally, racism has been made illegal under Brazil's anti-discrimination laws, which were passed in the 1950s after an African-American dancer was barred from a hotel. Nonetheless, race has been the subject of multiple intense debates over the years within the country.\n\nCalls for the end of slavery in Brazil began in the early 19th century. In 1825, José Bonifácio Andrada e Silva, who was a prominent figure in leading Brazil to independence from Portugal, was in high favor of gradual emancipation. Britain also contributed to the push for abolition in Brazil, by abolishing the slave trade. This was a significant move due to the fact that the British was Brazil's main trade partner. A small amount of legislation also helped lead up to the official abolition of slavery in 1888. First, in 1871 the Law of the Free Womb declared that all the children of slaves that were born after the law was passed were to be freed; followed by the 1885 Sexagenarian Law, which freed slaves over sixty years of age.\n\nA large contributor to the lengthy abolition process in Brazil was in part due to the dynamics of the royal family. By the 1870s, the last king, Pedro II had only one surviving child, the princess Isabel. Due to her gender and her marriage to a foreigner, Isabel had trouble gaining support, despite having twice served as regent during her father's reign. During her brief time as regent, she took small measures to abolish slavery. Due to the obstacles she faced, she had to appoint an entirely new cabinet in order to completely abolish slavery. She succeeded, and the abolition of slavery was refereed to as the Golden Law.\n\nThere is a lot of wide ranging scholarship on the racism in Brazil post slavery, from books to documentaries. One book, \"From Slavery to Freedom in Brazil: Bahia, 1835–1900,\" was written by Professor Dale Torston Graden in 2006. Graden breaks up his book into four different sections, which trace the history of abolition in Bahia. Critics say that Graden's book helps to detail the complex natures of the abolition movement and the large role enslaved and free blacks played in the larger narrative in which Brazilian society was gradually defined. Additionally, it \"pushes the reader to develop a more nuanced understanding of the intersection of race, ethnicity and emerging class hierarchy in the Brazilian context and provides a solid point of comparison for work in other parts of the Americas.\" \n\nA research article published in 2011 indicated that 63.7% of Brazilians believe that race interferes with the quality of life.\n\nAt work: 59%<br>\nIn questions related to police justice: 68.3%<br>\n\nResults conducted in 2008 supposedly show that people are not surprised about this differencealthough a large percentage of the population is black or has black ancestry, they represented no more than 8% of the 513 chosen representatives in the last election year. The salary of Whites in Brazil are, on average, 46% over the salary of Blacks. This difference might be explained by differences in education.\n\nAccording to Ivanir dos Santos (the former Justice Ministry's specialist on race affairs), \"There is a hierarchy of skin color where blacks, mix races and dark skinned people are expected to know their place in society.\"\n\nA study on racial bias in teacher evaluations in Brazil found that Brazilian math teachers gave better grading assessments of white students than equally proficient and equivalently well-behaved black students.\n\nRace indicators\n\nDue to the ongoing questions surrounding race in Brazil, there have been various studies of violence in the country and whether race was a contributing or main factor in these crimes. One particular study looked at a series of homicides that occurred in Brazil, spanning from 2000 to 2009. The statistics were obtained by the Mortality Information System. The explanatory variables the Mortality Information System looked at for potential causes of racialized killings were, race/skin color, gender and education. In the discussion section, the findings of the study suggested that anti-gun legislation in Brazil has yielded different outcomes among Brazil's population due to race or color. The risk of death by homicide in the white population declined during the period studied. In the black population, the risk of being victimized based on race increased regardless of gender, even after gun control measures took place over the studied period of time.\n\nAnother study determined that in 2008, 111.2% more blacks died proportionally than whites in Brazil. The disparity is especially pronounced among young adults between 15 and 24 years of age. Among whites, the number of murders fell from 6,592 to 4,582 between 2002 and 2008, a difference of 30%. Meanwhile, the murders of young black men rose from 11,308 to 12,749 —- an increase of 13%. In 2008, 127.6% more young black men died proportionately than whites. Ten years earlier, this difference was 39%. In the State of Paraíba in 2008, 1083% more blacks died than whites. In the State of Alagoas, 974.8% more blacks died than whites. In 11 States, this ratio exceeds 200%.\n\n\n\nInsight into Brazilian Racism\n"}
{"id": "1809177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1809177", "title": "Rural purge", "text": "Rural purge\n\nThe \"rural purge\" of American television networks (in particular CBS) was a series of cancellations in the early 1970s of still-popular rural-themed shows with demographically skewed audiences, the majority of which occurred at the end of the 1970–71 television season. In addition to rural-themed shows, the purge also eliminated several highly rated variety shows that had been on CBS since their beginning of television broadcasting. One of the earliest efforts at channel drift, CBS in particular saw a dramatic change in direction with the shift, moving away from shows with rural themes and toward ones with supposedly more appeal to urban and suburban audiences.\n\nStarting with \"The Real McCoys\", a 1957 ABC program, U.S. television had undergone a \"rural revolution\", a shift towards situation comedies featuring \"naïve but noble 'rubes' from deep in the American heartland\". CBS was the network most associated with the trend, with series such as \"The Andy Griffith Show\", \"The Beverly Hillbillies\", \"Green Acres\", \"Mister Ed\", \"Lassie\", \"Petticoat Junction\", and \"Hee Haw\". CBS aired so many of these rural-themed shows, many of which were produced by Filmways, that it gained the nickname the \"Country Broadcasting System\". Another nickname was the \"Hillbilly Network\", a play on the network's original self-proclaimed nickname of \"The Tiffany Network\".\n\nBy 1966, industry executives were lamenting the lack of diversity in American television offerings and the dominance of rural-oriented programming on all of the Big Three television networks of the era, noting that \"ratings indicate that the American public prefer hillbillies, cowboys, and spies\" (spy shows being a lingering after-effect of the British Invasion).\n\nCBS vice president Michael Dann personally disliked the dominance of rural-oriented programming; he nonetheless believed that the programs brought high total viewership and did not care about demographics. Dann's superior, CBS president James T. Aubrey, likewise believed rural sitcoms were a crucial part of the network's formula for success, noting that at the time, advertisers \"wanted\" the audience that watched rural sitcoms. Robert Wood, a later president of CBS, pressured Dann to cancel the rural programs. Dann was forced out shortly after he responded: \"Just because the people who buy refrigerators are between 26 and 35 and live in Scarsdale, you should not beam your programming only at them.\"\n\nAs summarized for the Museum of Broadcast Communications:\nBy the late 1960s, ...many viewers, especially young ones, were rejecting [rural-themed] shows as irrelevant to modern times. Mayberry's total isolation from contemporary problems was part of its appeal, but more than a decade of media coverage of the civil rights movement had brought about a change in the popular image of the small Southern town. \"Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.\", was set on a U.S. Marine base between 1964 and 1969, but neither Gomer nor any of his fellow marines ever mentioned the war in Vietnam. CBS executives, afraid of losing the lucrative youth demographic, purged their schedule of hit shows that were drawing huge but older-skewing audiences.\n\nAlthough the purge of rural programming began in 1970, it was foreshadowed a few years earlier. In 1967, CBS ordered a mass cancellation of the network's remaining panel game shows: \"What's My Line?\", \"I've Got a Secret\" and \"To Tell the Truth\". These programs were still extremely profitable (mainly because of their low budgets) but performed poorly in demographics. The network attempted to incorporate more urban programming, including the innovative sitcom \"He & She\" in the 1967 season, but a clash with that show's lead-in (\"Green Acres\") led to its cancellation; as a foreshadowing of things to come, \"He & She\" would be rebroadcast in reruns during the summer of 1970, just before the purge began. \"The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour\", likewise an innovative and far more successful program that appealed to a younger audience, also debuted in 1967.\n\nThe purge was instigated by CBS executive Robert Wood who replaced longtime CBS programming head Michael Dann with Fred Silverman, following research highlighting the greater attraction to advertisers of the young adult urban viewer demographic. Much of CBS's existing product either drew audiences that were too old and rural, or drew another undesirable demographic: young boys, who lacked disposable income of their own. Their lack of relevance was referred to in Gil Scott-Heron's 1970 spoken-word piece \"The Revolution Will Not Be Televised\", which alludes to at least seven of the shows that are eventually canceled as part of the purge, mentioning that as part of the titular revolution, the shows \"will no longer be so damned relevant\". Another factor in the purge was the loss of a half-hour of prime time programming each night as a result of the Prime Time Access Rule, which took effect in 1971; as a result of the new rule, the networks (all of which had started prime time at 7:30 p.m. Eastern Time before the rule took effect) had to trim the equivalent of seven half-hour programs from their weekly schedules and give them back to the local stations.\n\nThe numerous cancellations prompted Pat Buttram (\"Mr. Haney\" on one of the canceled shows, \"Green Acres\") to make the observation: \"It was the year CBS canceled everything with a tree—including \"Lassie\"\".\n\nThe first rural-themed show canceled by Silverman was \"Petticoat Junction\" in 1970. In September 1970, \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\" premiered on CBS. \"All in the Family\" premiered in January 1971 as a midseason replacement. Both series provided the urban demographic, cutting-edge social relevance, and ratings that CBS sought. These ratings successes prompted Silverman and the network to cancel \"Green Acres\", \"The Beverly Hillbillies\", \"Mayberry R.F.D.\", \"Hee Haw\", and \"The Jim Nabors Hour\" at the end of the 1970–71 season, as well as cut short \"The New Andy Griffith Show\", a comeback vehicle for Andy Griffith, after only ten episodes. (\"The New Andy Griffith Show\" was a last-minute replacement for \"Headmaster\", Griffith's unsuccessful effort to reach a more refined, urban audience; \"Headmaster\" was canceled after only 14 episodes.) Another series, \"The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour\", lasted until the end of the 1971–72 season.\n\nABC also was looking for younger audiences, and in May 1971 canceled shows that skewed toward rural viewers (such as \"The Johnny Cash Show\", which had ranked 17th in the ratings prior to its cancellation) or older viewers (\"Make Room for Granddaddy\" and \"The Lawrence Welk Show\"). NBC also targeted rural- and older-oriented programs in its cuts, eliminating long-running programs such as \"Wild Kingdom\", \"The Andy Williams Show\" and \"The Virginian\", all of which ran nine seasons or more.\n\nSyndication proved to be a haven for many of the canceled programs. Welk's program—a mainstay of television since the summer of 1955—immediately moved to first-run syndication, where it enjoyed an additional 11 years before Welk's retirement in 1982. Reruns of the show began almost immediately afterward, and continue to this day on PBS. \"Wild Kingdom\", \"Lassie\", and \"Hee Haw\" also continued in first-run syndication after their cancellations in 1971. \"Lassie\" ran until 1973, while \"Hee Haw\" had even greater success, lasting until 1991. (The timing of \"Hee Haw\" and \"Welk\" entering syndication was particularly opportune; along with the urban-oriented \"Soul Train\" that entered syndication the same year, these music-oriented niche programs became very popular throughout the 1970s and into the 1980s.) \"Wild Kingdom\" primarily aired reruns, but continued to produce occasional new episodes in syndication through 1987. Both Andy Williams and Johnny Cash returned with short-lived revivals of their shows in 1976 and continued to produce annual specials into the 1980s.\n\n\"Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.\" was the first of the rural-based shows to leave the air. However, this was not due to its rural theme, but instead to Jim Nabors's desire to move to something else – \"reach for another rung on the ladder, either up or down\". He was given a new show, \"The Jim Nabors Hour\", as a replacement for the next season. \"Mayberry R.F.D.\", itself a direct continuation of \"The Andy Griffith Show\" (from which \"Gomer Pyle\" had spun off) finished number 4 for the year and was renewed for two more seasons. The first of the cancellations was \"The Red Skelton Show\", which had finished the 1969–70 season as the number 7 show when it was axed by CBS. The show's move back to NBC and its altered format drew away its viewership; thus it fell out of the top 30 by the end of the 1970–71 season. \"Petticoat Junction\" is another series often cited in the purge, but that show was already in decline (due in part to shifting tastes and to the death of star Bea Benaderet in 1968) by the time it was canceled in 1970. The success of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", \"All in the Family\", and newer, more urban variety shows such as \"The Carol Burnett Show\" in 1967 and \"The Flip Wilson Show\" in 1970, would allow for the mass cancellations of most of the now \"undesired shows\" at the end of 1971, despite their high ratings and popularity. Both \"Green Acres\" and \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" had dropped from the Nielsen top 30 by the 1970–71 season, yet both shows continued to win their respective time slots and had a loyal following, warranting renewal for another season. Other shows still pulling in even higher ratings when canceled included \"Mayberry R.F.D.\", which finished the season at number 15, \"Hee Haw\" at number 16, and \"The Jim Nabors Hour\" at number 29. Nevertheless, the course had been set by the networks and the shows were canceled to free up the schedules for newer shows.\n\nThe inclusion of demographics in determining a series' worth to its sponsors meant high ratings alone did not necessarily warrant a series for renewal. Series such as ABC's \"The Brady Bunch\" and \"The Partridge Family\" were never truly ratings hits; however, both series appealed to a younger demographic and thus were renewed for three more seasons and have been rerun on various outlets for decades since.\n\nSilverman replaced much of the canceled programming in 1971 and 1972 with \"relevant\" fare. Following \"All in the Family\" were its many spinoffs including \"Maude\" and \"The Jeffersons\". Following the success of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\", the series' production company MTM Productions would develop the popular \"The Bob Newhart Show\". \"M*A*S*H\" was added to the network in 1972, remaining constantly in the top 15 of shows for the next 11 seasons, and eventually aired the most watched single episode of any series in U.S. television history during its 1983 series finale.\n\nAn unusual side effect of the rural purge was the diminution of the laugh track. Most of the rural-oriented programs were filmed in the single-camera setup without a studio audience, with the canned laughter added by laugh-track proprietor Charley Douglass. The newer shows that came to television in the early 1970s were multiple-camera setups with live studio audiences, a trend that would become the norm throughout the 1970s and 1980s, with Douglass's laugh track mostly limited to sweetening.\n\nUnder Silverman's watch, game shows returned to the network's daytime schedule during this period, as well (unlike NBC or ABC, CBS had not carried a daytime game show since \"To Tell the Truth\" ended its run in 1968, instead opting for reruns of 1960s prime-time sitcoms such as \"The Lucy Show\" and \"Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.\", both of which had left the air by that point). The first of these shows was \"The Amateur's Guide to Love\", which ran for three months in the Spring and Summer of 1972. Shortly afterward, on September 4, the network debuted three new game shows: \"The New Price Is Right\", \"Gambit\", and \"The Joker's Wild\". All three shows had relatively long runs, with \"Joker\" ending its CBS run in 1975 (then returning in syndication in 1977), \"Gambit\" at the end of 1976, and \"Price\" still airing decades since.\n\nDespite the relatively large number of \"old guard\" variety shows canceled in the purge, Silverman actually continued to create new variety shows to replace the ones he had canceled; one of the first was \"The Sonny & Cher Show\", which debuted in February 1971 and would last until Sonny and Cher divorced in 1974 (Silverman then retained Cher's services, signing her to her own show in 1976, after which she agreed to reunite professionally with Sonny for its last year on air, before it ended in 1977). Silverman would later commission \"Donny & Marie\" for ABC five years later. He would also, with little success, commission \"The Brady Bunch Hour\" for ABC in 1976 and \"Pink Lady and Jeff\" and \"The Susan Anton Show\" for NBC in 1980, all three of which were received extremely poorly.\n\nSeveral conservative members of Congress, as well as President Richard Nixon and members of his administration, expressed displeasure at some of the replacement shows, many of which (especially the more socially conscious shows such as \"All in the Family\") were not particularly \"family-friendly\". The backlash from the purge prompted CBS to commission a rural family drama, \"The Waltons\", for its Fall 1972 schedule based on the TV film \"The Homecoming: A Christmas Story\" (1971). The network scheduled it in what it thought would be a death slot against popular series \"The Flip Wilson Show\" and \"The Mod Squad\", allegedly hoping the show would underperform and head to a quick cancellation. Instead, \"The Waltons\" went on to run for nine seasons, reaching as high as second in the Nielsens and finishing in the top 30 for seven of its nine years on air. The success of \"The Waltons\" started a trend for family dramas throughout the 1970s; such as \"Little House on the Prairie\", \"Apple's Way\", \"Family\", and \"Eight Is Enough\".\n\nNon-rural-themed shows canceled by CBS included sitcoms \"Family Affair\" and \"Hogan's Heroes\" in 1971, with the long-running \"My Three Sons\" ending in 1972. Variety shows that had been around since the late 1940s and early 1950s, such as \"The Jackie Gleason Show\" and \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", were canceled in 1970 and 1971, respectively; likewise, \"The Original Amateur Hour\" (a stalwart of network television since its debut, and before that on radio since 1934) ended on its own accord in 1970 due to the show's aging demographics. \"The Red Skelton Show\" was canceled by CBS at the end of the 1969–70 season, and was picked up by NBC (the series' original network) for one more season. NBC would also revert Skelton's show to its original half-hour format in place of its more familiar hour-long format on CBS. By the end of 1972, Lucille Ball remained the only long-time star from television's golden era to still have her own show. Ball's show, \"Here's Lucy\", still rated in the Nielsen top ten and would continue to pull in high ratings until its end in 1974. TV westerns were another genre fading in popularity. Apart from \"Gunsmoke\" and \"Bonanza\", two prime-time staples which in 1971 had been on the air for a combined 28 years (and would continue to air until 1975 and 1973, respectively), most of the shows in the genre were already off the air at the time of the purge. NBC canceled two of the remaining Westerns in 1971, \"The Virginian\" and \"The High Chaparral\". Westerns had already been targeted by parents' groups opposing television violence and those concerned about the portrayal of Native Americans, though the main reason for their cancellation was that their viewership skewed older and rural. By 1969, no new Westerns were debuting.\n\nNote: The following shows were canceled at the end of their respective seasons. Some shows did not necessarily have a rural theme, but were perceived to appeal primarily to rural and/or older audiences.\n\n\n\nIn the original draft of CBS's 1971 Rural Purge, \"Gunsmoke\" was going to be canceled at the end of the 1970–71 season, while \"Mayberry R.F.D.\" and \"Family Affair\" would be renewed for the 1971–72 season. This plan was revised due to \"Gunsmoke's\" Top-10 Ratings, ranking #5 in the Nielsen Ratings for the 1970–71 season; in fact, the show's ratings rose to #4 in the next (1971–72) season. Another factor that helped its renewal was that \"Gunsmoke\" was the favorite TV program of Barbara Paley, wife of CBS Chief Executive William Paley, even though Fred Silverman and Robert Wood both favored cancelling \"Gunsmoke\" over \"Mayberry R.F.D\". and \"Family Affair\".\n\nABC seriously considered picking up \"Family Affair\" following its cancellation by CBS, and adding the show to the 1971-72 ABC Prime-Time schedule, but eventually passed on this decision. This was due to the fact that ABC had two similar shows with similar audiences (\"The Brady Bunch\" and \"The Partridge Family\"), and also the network came to the conclusion that \"Family Affair\" had run its course.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6751525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6751525", "title": "Sell-through", "text": "Sell-through\n\nSell-through refers to the percentage of a product that is sold by a retailer after being shipped by its supplier, typically expressed as a percentage. Net sales essentially refers to the same thing, in absolute numbers. Sell-through is calculated during a period (usually 1 month).\n\nSell through refers to sales made directly (Direct sales). Sell in, on the other hand, refers to sales made through a channel.\n\nThis is relevant to sweet retail management software programs.\n\nSee also electronic sell-through\n"}
{"id": "3005313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005313", "title": "Sergey Nikolaevich Kurnakov", "text": "Sergey Nikolaevich Kurnakov\n\nSergey Nikolaevich Kurnakov or Sergei N. Kournakoff (Russian: Сергей Курнаков) is a former tsarist cavalry officer who had immigrated to the U.S. and later became an ardent ideological Communist. Kurnakov was born at Aladino in the Russian Caucasus in 1892 into a landed family of Circassian descent. After serving as an imperial page under Tsar Nicholas II, he joined the Circassian cavalry regiment and served in Galicia and Romania during the First World War 1914-17, being wounded in the hand. He described his experiences in \"Savage Squadrons\" (1935). He subsequently emigrated to America and became a journalist who wrote on military affairs for the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA) paper, the \"Daily Worker\", and other publications. Kurnakov served as a courier to various Soviet intelligence sources, and acted as both a talent-spotter and a vetter of potential recruits. Kurnakov was a highly active liaison agent. He was accused of Communism in \"Time\" in January 1944 after teaching at a Russian course at Cornell University in the summer of 1943. He was posthumously named as a communist agent in senate hearings in 1953.\n\nHis activities as an agent were revealed when the Venona decrypts were made public in 1995. He was the contact for Flora Wovschin's father, Enos Wicher. Kurnakov also took over Mary Jane Keeney who worked for the Board of Economic Warfare and later the United Nations from Soviet Military Intelligence (GRU). Her husband Philip Keeney, who worked for what became the OSS also was taken over by Kurnakov and the KGB.\n\nKurnakov was the contact between Saville Sax and Theodore Hall. Kurnakov reported Hall to have \"an exceptionally keen mind and a broad outlook,\" and to be \"politically developed.\" At their first meeting, Hall gave Kurnakov a report he had prepared on the Los Alamos facility, the progress of the research, and the roles of the chief scientists working on the atomic bomb. Kurnakov immediately reported to KGB Officers Anatoly Yatskov and Stepan Apresyan on his meeting with Hall.\n\nHis son, Nick Kurnakov, served in Europe with the United States Army during World War II until he defected to the Red Army and was given an officer's rank. He joined Radio Moscow after the war.\n\nSergey Kurnakov is referenced in the following Venona project decrypts:\n\n833 KGB New York to Moscow, 10 June 1942; 929–930 KGB New York to Moscow, 17 June 1943; 936 KGB New York to Moscow, 17 June 1943; 952 KGB New York to Moscow, 21 June 1943; 985–986 KGB New York to Moscow, 23 June 1943; 1120 KGB New York to Moscow, 10 July 1943; 1251 KGB New York to Moscow, 2 September 1944; 1322 KGB New York to Moscow, 15 September 1944; 1404 KGB New York to Moscow, 5 October 1944; 1438 KGB New York to Moscow, 10 October 1944; 1449 KGB New York to Moscow, 12 October 1944; 1584 KGB New York to Moscow, 12 November 1944; 1585 KGB New York to Moscow, 12 November 1944; 1586 KGB New York to Moscow, 12 November 1944; 1699 KGB New York to Moscow, 2 December 1944; 1714 KGB New York to Moscow, 5 December 1944; 18–19 KGB New York to Moscow, 4 January 1945; 94 KGB New York to Moscow, 23 January 1945; 243 KGB New York to Moscow, 18 March 1945.\n\n\nJohn Scott, \"How Russians Fight\", \"The Nation\", Volume: 155 Issue #: 0001, 4 July 1942\n"}
{"id": "45001599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45001599", "title": "Shahida Akhtar Ali", "text": "Shahida Akhtar Ali\n\nShahida Akhtar Ali () is a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan, from 2002 to 2007 and again from June 2013 to May 2018.\n\nShe was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) on a reserved seat for women from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistani general election, 2002.\n\nShe was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) on a reserved seat for women from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistani general election, 2013.\n"}
{"id": "3384925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3384925", "title": "Talking drum", "text": "Talking drum\n\nThe talking drum is an hourglass-shaped drum from West Africa, whose pitch can be regulated to mimic the tone and prosody of human speech. It has two drumheads connected by leather tension cords, which allow the player to modulate the pitch of the drum by squeezing the cords between their arm and body. A skilled player is able to play whole phrases. Most talking drums sound like a human humming depending on the way they are played. Similar hourglass-shaped drums are found in Asia, but they are not used to mimic speech, although the idakka is used to mimic vocal music. \n\nHourglass-shaped talking drums are some of the oldest instruments used by West African griots and their history can be traced back to the Yoruba people, the Ghana Empire and the Hausa people. The Yoruba people of south western Nigeria and Benin and the Dagomba of northern Ghana) have developed a highly sophisticated genre of griot music centering on the talking drum . Many variants of the talking drums evolved, with most of them having the same construction mentioned above. Soon, many non-hourglass shapes showed up and were given special names, such as the Dunan, Sangban, Kenkeni, Fontomfrom and Ngoma drums. This construction is limited to within the contemporary borders of West Africa, with exceptions to this rule being northern Cameroon and western Chad; areas which have shared populations belonging to groups predominant in their bordering West African countries, such as the Kanuri, Djerma, Fulani and Hausa.\n\nIn Senegalese and Gambian history, the tama (Serer) was one of the music instruments used in the Serer people's \"Woong\" tradition (the \"dance performed by Serer boys yet to be circumcised\" or the future circumcised, also known as the \"Xaat\" in the Serer language). The tama drum, has Serer religious connotations (which predates the Ghana Empire). In the \"Xaat\" tradition, the tama makes up the fourth musical drum ensemble. The Serer drums played include : Perngel, Lamb, Qiin and Tama.\nFrom a historical perspective, the tama (just like the Serer junjung), was beaten by the griots of Senegambian kings on special occasions, such as during wars (a call for arms), when the kings wanted to address their subjects, and on special circumstances in Serer country – a call for martyrdom, such as the mayhem at Tahompa (a 19th-century surprise attack) and the Battle of Naoudourou, where the defeated Serers (by the Muslim-marabouts of Senegambia), committed suicide rather than be conquered by the Muslim forces or forced to submit to Islam. Suicide is permitted in Serer religion only if it satisfies the Serer principle of Jom (see Serer religion). The word \"Jom\" means \"honour\" in the Serer language.\n\nThe pitch of the drum is varied to mimic the tone patterns of speech. This is done by varying the tension placed on the drumhead: the opposing drum heads are connected by a common tension cord. The waist of the drum is held between the player's arm and ribs, so that when squeezed the drumhead is tightened, producing a higher note than when it's in its relaxed state; the pitch can be changed during a single beat, producing a warbling note. The drum can thus capture the pitch, volume, and rhythm of human speech, though not the qualities of vowels or consonants.\n\nThe use of talking drums as a form of communication was noticed by Europeans in the first half of the eighteenth century. Detailed messages could be sent from one village to the next faster than could be carried by a person riding a horse. In the nineteenth century Roger T. Clarke, a missionary, realised that \"the signals represent the tones of the syllables of conventional phrases of a traditional and highly poetic character.\" Like Chinese, many African languages are tonal; that is, the pitch is important in determining the meaning of a particular word. The Yoruba language of the Yoruba people for instance is mostly defined by the tri-tonic scale, consisting only of the tonic sol-fa notes, do, re, mi, different inflections of which are then used to convey different messages, this same principle also applies to how the drum talks in all of the Yoruba peoples music and culture. The problem was how to communicate complex messages without the use of vowels or consonants, simply using tone. An English emigrant to Africa, John F. Carrington, in his 1949 book \"The Talking Drums of Africa\" explained how African drummers were able to communicate complex messages over vast distances. Using low tones referred to as male and higher female tones, the drummer communicates through the phrases and pauses, which can travel upwards of 4–5 miles. This process may take eight times longer than communicating a normal sentence but was effective for telling neighboring villages of possible attacks or ceremonies. He found that to each short word which was beaten on the drums was added an extra phrase, which would be redundant in speech but provided context to the core drum signal.\n\nThe message \"Come back home\" might be translated by the drummers as: \"Make your feet come back the way they went, make your legs come back the way they went, plant your feet and your legs below, in the village which belongs to us\".\n\nSingle words would be translated into phrases. For example, \"moon\" would be played as \"the Moon looks towards earth\", and \"war\" as \"war which causes attention to ambushes\".\n\nThe extra phrases provide a context in which to make sense of the basic message or drum beats. These phrases could not be randomized, when learning to play the drum students were taught the particular phrase that coincided with each word. This reason alone made learning to talk in drum language very difficult and not many were willing to take the time to do so. The extra drum beats reduce the ambiguity of the meaning. The irony was that by the time the West understood the mechanism of the drums they began to diminish in use in Africa. It was also not uncommon for words to lose their meaning. In an interview with Carrington he explained that when words aren't used often the phrases that correspond to them are forgotten. When given the beat for young girl the drummers thought the phrase played was in fact the one for fishing nets.\n\nAs emphasized by Finnegan, the messages sent via drums were not confined to utilitarian messages with a marginally literary flavour. Drum languages could also be used for specifically literary forms, for proverbs, panegyrics, historical poems, dirges, and in some cultures practically any kind of poetry. The ritualized forms and drum names constituted a type of oral literature. Among some peoples such as the Ashanti or the Yoruba, drum language and literature were very highly developed. In these cultures, drumming tended to be a specialized and often hereditary activity, and expert drummers with a mastery of the accepted vocabulary of drum language and literature were often attached to a king’s court.\n\nVarious sizes of hourglass talking drum exist, with the dimensions of the drum differing between ethnic groups, but all following the same template.\n\nThe \"Tama\" of the Serer, Wolof and Mandinka peoples is typified by its smaller dimensions, having a total drum length typical of 13 centimeters (5 inches) with a 7 centimeter (2.75 inch) drum head diameter. This produces a much higher pitched tone than other talking drums of the same construction.\nThe Yoruba and Dagomba peoples on the other hand have some of the largest dimensions for drums in their \"Lunna\" and \"Dùndún\" ensembles, with a length typical of 23–38 centimeters (9–15 inches) and a drum head diameter of between 10–18 centimeters (4–7 inches). In Yoruba talking-drum ensembles, this is used alongside smaller talking drums similar to the \"Tama\", called \"Gangan\" in Yoruba language.\n\nPlaying styles are closely linked with the drum's construction and the tonal qualities of each language. There is a clear difference in playing styles between areas with predominantly Fulani and Mande-speaking populations and traditionally non-Mande areas further east.\n\nThe predominant style of playing in areas further west such as Senegal, Gambia, western Mali and Guinea is characterized by rapid rolls and short bursts of sound between the stick holding hand and accompanying free hand, and correlates with the various pitch accent and non-tonal languages heard in this area. This is a style typically heard in the popular Mbalax genre of Senegal.\n\nFrom eastern Mali, Burkina Faso and Ghana, towards Niger, western-Chad and Nigeria, (with the exceptions of areas with Fulani and Mande-speaking majorities) the playing style of the talking drum is centered on producing long and sustained notes by hitting the drum head with the stick-holding hand and the accompanying free hand used to dampen and change tones immediately after being hit. This produces a rubbery sounding texture to its playing, which mimics the heavy and complex tones used in languages from this area (see Niger–Congo tonal language chart). This characteristic style can be clearly heard in the popular music of this area, particularly in those where the talking drum is the lead instrument, such as Fuji music of the Yoruba of Nigeria.\n\nIn the 20th century the talking drum became a part of popular music in West Africa. It is used in playing Mbalax music of Senegal and in Fuji and Jùjú music of Nigeria (where it is known as a dùndún, not to be confused with the dundun bass drum of the Mandé peoples.)\n\nKing Crimson used the talking drum on its album \"Larks' Tongues in Aspic\", for the track \"The Talking Drum\". \n\nTom Waits used the talking drum on his song \"Trouble's Braids,\" a track from the album \"Swordfishtrombones\".\n\nErykah Badu used the talking drum on her song \"My People\", from the album \"New Amerykah Part One (4th World War)\".\n\nSikiru Adepoju is a master of the talking drum from Nigeria who has collaborated with artists from the Grateful Dead to Stevie Wonder and Carlos Santana.\n\nNaná Vasconcelos, master of percussion, started playing the talking drum in the early 1980s and has used it ever since.\n\nMick Fleetwood of Fleetwood Mac has used the talking drum on the track \"World Turning\" on the band's 1975 eponymous album and in concert performances of the song.\n\nIn the game series Patapon the player is a god who communicates with his or her followers using four Talking Drums. Each has its own unique sound: 'Pata,' 'Pon,' 'Don' and 'Chaka.'\n\nIn the television series Dead Like Me, the talking drum is discussed as a means of celebrating the lives of the dead.\n\nThey can also be heard in the 1959 movie \"The Nun's Story\", starring Audrey Hepburn, when she arrives in what was at that time the Belgian Congo.\n\nBill Kreutzmann, a drummer for the Grateful Dead, occasionally played a talking drum at the band's live shows during the \"drums\" segment of their shows in the second set.\n\nThe talking drum features prominently in the score of the 2018 film \"Black Panther\". The score, composed by Ludwig Göransson, uses talking drums at the core of a leitmotif associated with the film's protagonist, T'Challa (played by Chadwick Boseman).\n\nIn some ethnic groups, each individual was given a \"drum name\". Examples from among the Bulu of Cameroon are \"Even if you dress up finely, love is the only thing\" or \"The giant wood rat has no child, the house rat has no child\". Talking drum players sent messages by drumming the recipient's name, followed by the sender's name and the message.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1876945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1876945", "title": "Tallensi", "text": "Tallensi\n\nTallensi, also spelled Talensi, are a people of northern Ghana who speak a language of the Gur branch of the Niger-Congo language family. They grow millet and sorghum as staples and raise cattle, sheep, and goats on a small scale. Their normal domestic unit is the polygamous joint family of a man and his sons (and sometimes grandsons) with their wives and unmarried daughters. Married daughters live with their husbands in other communities, commonly nearby.\n\nThe Tallensi are polygamous and follow a patrilineal system of kinship and descent. Great emphasis is placed on inheritance and the tensions surrounding parents' relationships with their children. It is considered essential for a man to have a son if he is to achieve fulfillment and be venerated as an ancestor after his death. However, the birth of a first-born son, and to a lesser extent a first-born daughter, is held to mark the culmination of a man's 'rise' in the world, and the start of his decline. Meanwhile, the son grows to replace and supplant the father. The resulting ambivalence between father and son, which is reminiscent of the effects of the Oedipus complex as articulated by Sigmund Freud, plays an important role in Tallensi rituals and taboos.\n\nTaboos begin when the first-born son reaches the age of five or six. From this time on the son may not eat from the same dish as his father, wear his father's cap or tunic, carry his father's quiver, use his father's bow, or look into his father's granary. When the son reaches adolescence, he may not meet his father in the entrance to the house compound. Similar taboos exist to regulate the relationship between mother and first-born daughter. The daughter, for example, may not look into her mother's storage pot.\n\nUpon the death of a father, his first-born son and daughter lead the rituals involved in his funeral. The son, at this point, puts on his father's cap and tunic. A tribal elder, carrying the dead man's bow, ritually guides the son to his father's granary and shows him the inside. After his father's death the son is considered a mature man for the purposes of ritual, and it is his responsibility to make sacrifices to the ancestors, chief among them being his own father, who being recently dead is held to act as an intermediary between those still living and the more remote ancestors.\n\nIt is believed that these taboos and rituals serve to channel ambivalence and resentment between generations into culturally defined and culturally acceptable means of expression.\n\nAmong the Tallensi tribe there is a belief in the sacred crocodile. As Meyer Fortes highlighted in his ethnographic work \"The concept of the person\", special crocodiles in special pools are considered persons among the Tallensi. No local man, indeed no Tallensi would dare kill or injure a sacred crocodile. Every Tallensi knows that these crocodiles are the incarnation of important clan ancestors. To kill one of these is like killing a person. It is murder of the most heinous kind and it would bring disaster on the whole clan.\n\nHowever, not all crocodiles are considered persons (\"ni-saal\") for instance, in the rivers that are fished in the dry season - is not a person, not sacred. It can be killed and eaten.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47485624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47485624", "title": "Tebbu people", "text": "Tebbu people\n\nThe Tebbu people (Diebu people) are a Tibetan-Himalayan ethnic group indigenous to the Min Mountains along the Bailong River and its tributaries in Tewo County and possibly the eastern part of Zhugqu County in southern Gansu Province, Tibet. They speak the Amdo Tibetan language. The Tebbu population is currently estimated at more than 20,000 individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "3458570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3458570", "title": "Tekna", "text": "Tekna\n\nThe Tekna is a semi nomad Sahrawi tribal confederation of Lamta Sanhaja Berber origins. Its constituents today inhabit southern Morocco and northern Western Sahara, but traditionally with wider migration routes. Nowadays, its population is estimated to be around 709,000.\n\nThe Tekna tribes speak Hassaniya Arabic and the Berber Shilha dialect in varying degrees.\n\nAll Tekna are Muslims, belonging to the Maliki school of Sunni Islam. Their traditional lifestyle was partly nomadic, based on camel and goat herding, and partly sedentary, controlling important routes of the Saharan caravan trade.\n\nThe Tekna are divided into several Berber-speaking and Arabic-speaking tribes, which are organized into two tribal confederations or \"leff\": \n\nDuring the 17th century, Morocco under Sultan Ismail Ibn Sharif seized control over the territory from the Moulouya River south to Senegal and Timbuktu. Contingents of Tekna troops were then sent to the Senegal valley on behalf of the Sultan.\n\nAfter 1765 the Tekna revolted, acquiring greater autonomy. On May 30, 1767, Mohammed ben Abdallah, Sultan of Morocco, signed a peace and commerce treaty with King Charles III of Spain, recognizing that Morocco did not control the Tekna tribes.\n\nHowever, at the time of the Spanish colonization and at the beginning of the 20th century, the Tekna tribes recognized the Sultan of Morocco as their sultan.\n\n\n Attilo Gaudio, \"Les populations du Sahara occidental: histoire, vie et culture\", ed. Karthala 1993, (Chap. VIII, pp. 97–116) () \n"}
{"id": "1077795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077795", "title": "Tinker", "text": "Tinker\n\nTinker or tinkerer is an archaic term for an itinerant tinsmith who mends household utensils.\n\nThe word is attested from the 13th century as \"tyckner\" or \"tinkler\" a term used in medieval Scotland and England for a metal worker. Some travelling groups and Romani people adopted this lifestyle and the name was particularly associated with indigenous Scottish Highland Travellers and Irish Travellers. However, this usage is disputed and considered offensive by some. Tinkering is therefore the process of adapting, meddling or adjusting something in the course of making repairs or improvements, a process also known as bricolage.\n\nThe term \"tinker\", in British English, may refer to a mischievous child. Some modern-day nomads with a Scottish, Irish or English influence call themselves \"techno-tinkers\" or \"technogypsies\" and are found to possess a revival of sorts of the romantic view of the tinker's lifestyle. The family name \"Tinker\" is of Anglo-Saxon origin and does not have a Scottish, Irish, or Romany connection.\nA tinker's dam is a temporary patch to repair a hole in a metal vessel such as a pot or a pan. It was used by tinkers and was usually made of mud or clay, or sometimes other materials at hand, such as wet paper. The material was built up around the outside of the hole, so as to plug it. Molten solder was then poured on the inside of the hole. The solder cooled and solidified against the dam and bonded with the metal wall. The dam was then brushed away. The remaining solder was then rasped and smoothed down by the tinker.\n\nIn the \"Practical Dictionary of Mechanics\" of 1877, Edward Knight gives this definition: \"Tinker's-dam: a wall of dough raised around a place which a plumber desires to flood with a coat of solder. The material can be but once used; being consequently thrown away as worthless\".\n\nThe common use of \"tinker's dam\" may have influenced the English phrase tinker's curse, which expresses contempt. The phrases tinker's damn and tinker's curse may also be applied to something considered insignificant. A common expression may be the examples: \"I don't give a tinker's curse what the Vicar thinks\", sometimes shortened to, \"I don't give a tinker's about the Vicar.\" In this context, the speaker is expressing contempt for the clergyman and his opinion. A tinker's curse or cuss was considered of little significance because tinkers (who worked with their hands near hot metal) were reputed to swear (curse) habitually.\n\n"}
{"id": "21754381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21754381", "title": "Turkmen rug", "text": "Turkmen rug\n\nA Turkmen rug (; or Turkmen carpet or Turkoman carpet) is a type of handmade floor-covering textile traditionally originating in Central Asia. It is useful to distinguish between the original Turkmen tribal rugs and the rugs produced in large numbers for export mainly in Pakistan and Iran today. The original Turkmen rugs were produced by the Turkmen tribes who are the main ethnic group in Turkmenistan and are also found in Afghanistan and Iran. They are used for various purposes, including tent rugs, door hangings and bags of various sizes.\n\nA few centuries back, almost all Turkmen rugs were produced by nomadic tribes almost entirely with locally obtained materials, wool from the herds and vegetable dyes, or other natural dyes from the land. They used geometrical designs that varied from tribe to tribe; most famous are the Yomut, Ersari, Saryk, Salor, and Tekke. Irregularities — considered part of the charm by many rug collectors — were fairly common since natural materials varied from batch to batch and woolen warp or weft may stretch, especially on a loom that is regularly folded up for transport and set up a new at another camp.\n\nMore recently, large rug workshops in the cities have appeared, there are fewer irregularities, and the technology has changed some. Since about 1910, synthetic dyes have been used along with natural ones. The size of nomadic rugs is limited to what can be done on a nomad's portable loom; larger rugs have always been produced in the villages, but they are now more common. Using cotton for warp and weft threads has also become common.\n\nThe rugs produced in large numbers for export in Pakistan and Iran and sold under the name of Turkmen rugs are mostly made of synthetic colors, with cotton warps and wefts and wool pile. They have little in common with the original Turkmen tribal rugs. In these export rugs, various patterns and colors are used, but the most typical is that of the Bukhara design, which derives from the Tekke main carpet, often with a red or tan background (picture). Another favorite is derived from the Ersari main carpet, with the octagonal \"elephant's foot\" design. The Turkmen Carpet Museum, which preserves examples of the original Turkmen tribal rugs, is located in Ashgabat.\n\nMany Afghan rugs bear a strong resemblance to Turkmen rugs. Afghanistan produces a lot of relatively cheap and coarse rugs, mainly for export, and many of those are in a \"Bokhara\" design. However, there are also some very fine Afghans including many using Turkmen designs.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century, carpet weaving in Turkmenistan had become one of the most important sectors of the economy. In 1992, Turkmen Carpet Day officially became a public national holiday, celebrated annually on the last Sunday in May. Among the modern Turkmen carpets stands the world's largest handmade carpet total area of 301 m, which was woven in 2001, and in 2003 entered in the \"Guinness Book of Records\".\n\nThe vertical strip of the Flag of Turkmenistan placed five main patterns of Turkmen carpets. These figures are arranged. Secondary figures are disposed along the edges. Patterns reflect national unity of Turkmenistan. The five traditional carpet motifs in Emblem of Turkmenistan on the red disc represent the five major tribes or houses, and stand for the traditional and religious values of the country. These Turkmen tribes in traditional order are Teke, Yomut, Arsary, Chowdur and Saryk (Saryq).\n\nState Association Turkmenhaly is a major supplier to the world market of pure wool pile hand-made Turkmen carpets from Turkmenistan. The principal activities of the corporation are the production and sale of Turkmen carpets and rugs, preserving the traditions of carpet weaving hand, the restoration of old carpet ornaments and articles.\n\nThe Turkmenistan Presidential Decree of 20 March 1993 in Ashgabat created the Turkmen Carpet Museum. The Carpet Museum is one of the cultural centers of Turkmenistan, which has about 2,000 carpet exhibits, including rare ones, on display. For example, the museum has the smallest carpet product, designed to be worn with keys. The museum conducts restoration of antique carpets as well. It's a challenging process - some artfully woven old specimens contain up to 1,350,000 knots. The museum is constantly updated, and its employees conduct searches and compiles collections of old carpets. The new building of the National Museum of Turkmen Carpets has an overall space of 5089 m. The museum also hosts international scientific forums and conferences.\n\nBereket has a Turkmen carpet weaving factory, in usage since 1923.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2026750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026750", "title": "Veluws dialect", "text": "Veluws dialect\n\nVeluws is a Dutch Low Saxon dialect which is spoken on the Veluwe.\n\nVeluws is spoken in the Central Netherlands, in the Northwest of Gelderland.\n\nThe language was recognized by the government of the Netherlands in 1996 (as being part of Low Saxonian).\n\nVeluws is usually divided into two main dialects, West-Veluws (West Veluws) and Oost-Veluws (East Veluws), these two dialects are reasonably similar but differ in grammar. For example: in Oost-Veluws they say \"ie warkt/wärkt\" (you are working) and in West-Veluws \"jie warken/waarken\" (you are working).\n\nWest-Veluws is also more influenced by Dutch. The closer one gets to the border with Oost-Veluws, the result usually results in more the dialects differed from Standard Dutch. For example, in the central part where West-Veluws is spoken they say \"hie staot\", in the North Western part they say \"hij steet\" compared to \"hij/hee stiet\" 'he is standing' in Oost-Veluws, this already has a more Low Saxon influence. Hattem, the North Eastern part where & when Oost-Veluws is spoken, it seems to \"have\" or in the direct mentioned, 'has a' \n\nIt is not well defined what constitutes a language versus a dialect, but Veluws is generally considered to be a dialect of Low Saxon, classified Indo-European, Germanic, West, Low Saxon-Low Franconian, Low Saxon.\n\n"}
{"id": "12199736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12199736", "title": "Women in the Philippines", "text": "Women in the Philippines\n\nThe role of women in the Philippines () is explained based on the context of Filipino culture, standards, and mindsets. The Philippines is described to be a nation of strong women, who directly and indirectly run the family unit, businesses, government agencies and haciendas.\n\nAlthough they generally define themselves in the milieu of a male-dominated post-colonial society, Filipino women live in a culture that is focused on the community, with the family as the main unit of society, but not always as this is a stereotype. It is in this framework of Philippine hierarchical structure, class differences, religious justifications, and living in a globally developing nation wherein Filipino women are respected well by men. Compared to other parts of Southeast Asia, women in Philippine society have always enjoyed a greater share of equality.\n\nSome pre-colonial social structures of the Philippines gave equal importance to maternal and paternal lineage. This bilateral kinship system accorded Philippine women enormous power within a clan. They were entitled to property, engage in a trade and could exercise their right to divorce her husband. They could also become village chiefs in the absence of a male heir. Before the arrival of the Spaniards, Filipino women could also achieve status as medicine women or high-priestesses and astrologers.\nIn the precolonial era of the Phlippines there are numerous women are entitled as a \"Hara\" and \"Dayang\" , the female presence in the Noble caste are prominent in the kinship system in the Philippine societies, here are the examples of notable Queens in the Philippine history: \n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough Christian values were supposed to be spread through the population, missionaries and priests soon realized that they'd be better off adapting their doctrine as much as possible to the local customs, rather than trying to impose it. Although the concept of gender equality existed in the Philippines during the pre-Hispanic era this changed when the Spaniards came and patterned the image of the Filipina to a meek and submissive individual. As it happened all over Asia, women in the Philippines were expected to become caring and nurturing mothers for their own children and take care of most household chores. Also a trait found all over Asia was the preference of most families to have male children instead of females.\n\nDuring the last part of the colonization of the Philippines, Isabella II of Spain, introduced the Education Decree of 1863 (10 years before Japan had a compulsory free modern public education and 40 years before the United States government started a free modern public school system in the Philippines) that provided for the establishment and for the building of at least two free primary schools, one for the boys and another school for the girls, in each town under the responsibility of the municipal government.\n\nWhen Spain lost the Spanish–American War in 1898, the Philippines was ceded to the United States of America. The U.S.A. introduced a new public education system which retained opportunity to every child regardless of gender.\n\nThrough the American-patterned school system, Filipino women became professionals, although most of them and their male counterparts opted for making use of their former education roots and expressed themselves in Spanish or Tagalog. According to the Monroe Commission on Philippine Education: “Upon leaving school, more than 99% of Filipinos will not speak English in their homes. Possibly, only 10% to 15% of the next generation will be able to use this language in their occupations. In fact, it will only be the government employees, and the professionals, who might make use of English.”\n\nModern-day Philippine women play a decisive role in Filipino families. They usually handle the money, act as religious mentors, and can also make all the important family decisions.\n\nIn the past, firms and businesses generally hire Filipino women for less pay and secretarial functions. But at present, Filipino women are given the same opportunities as their male counterparts in the business realm. This is due to the political and economic changes at the global and national levels in urban society that have led to the growth of export-based industries and the service sector, which then created more opportunities for Filipino women.\n\nAbout one-third of businesses in the Philippines are operated by Filipino women. Many Filipino businesswomen in the urban sector can be found in the hospitality sector, marketing, publishing, real estate, transportation, financial consulting, trade and services, electronics and appliances, and much more.\n\nIn rural areas, the Filipino woman belongs in the home. The children approach her for money and help. She is the family's treasurer. She supports the children’s educational needs. For non-family members who require support, the wife is the person to be approached. However, ]the wife is neither the person who makes the final decision or the person who hands out the money.\n\nJuan Flavier, a physician, an authority on community development, and a former Philippine senator, described in his book, \"Doctor to the Barrios\", that \"whether some (Filipino) men are willing to admit it or not\"... \"rural women in the Philippines wield considerable authority,\" the housewife in particular. This is especially if the housewife, who is often referred to as the \"Ilaw ng Tahanan\" (Light of the Home), is convinced of the benefits that will be gained from a certain practice such as the concept of family planning in the barrios. Flavier also mentioned that \"In the Philippine barrio, the one responsible for the home\" and its management \"is the wife... she holds the key to... household... development.\"\n\nCourtship and relationships in the Philippines are conservative in nature. The man will have to court the woman and prove his love for her before he can win her heart. Sometimes the courtship period would last for years. This however, is a very old fashioned idea. In the bigger more urbanized cities, this conservative courtship idea is not so emphasized as much. Parents prefer their daughter to be courted in their home, so they can have a chance to know the man. It is during the courtship period that the man would put his best foot forward to create a good impression on the woman and her family. Generally, the man is being measured on his being a gentleman, ability to respect the woman's family, and servitude (the extent of what he was willing to do to prove his love for the woman). Usually, the woman is courted by several men and will have to choose the best from among her suitors. Courtship and relationships remain the same for rural and urban areas despite the modern western influence.\n\nCulturally in the Philippines, divorce is viewed as negative and destructive, because of a tradition that emphasizes that the family is the core social unit, especially for the Filipino wife. Divorce is not perceived as a solution to any matrimonial-related problem because it hinders the development or progress of the basic community unit. Therefore, husband and wife are obligated to fix any problems within the boundaries of the marriage.\n\nIt should be noted that women in the pre-colonial Philippines enjoyed nearly equal status with men . Prior to colonization, both men and women could get a divorce for the following reasons: failure to meet family obligations, childlessness, and infidelity. Children, regardless of gender, and properties were equally divided in a divorce. Since a man needed to pay a dowry to the woman's family, she was required to give it back should she be found at fault. If the man was at fault, he then lost the right to get back his dowry.\n\nIn the Philippines, society valued offspring regardless of gender. Female children were as valuable as male ones, mainly because they recognized that women are as important as men. Parents provide equal opportunities to their children. Filipino daughters can also go to school like Filipino sons, Filipino daughters can also inherit property like Filipino sons, and Filipino daughters can also become village chiefs like Filipino sons.\n\nIn 1994, the John and Lorena Bobbitt case, in which a wife cut off the penis of her sleeping husband, seized the attention of media in the Philippines, which reported that a similar incident had occurred in Cebu the previous November. The Bobbitt case was reported at a time when Filipino feminist groups were protesting against prostitution, the practice of mail-order brides, and marital rape. In 2008, a similar case in Pasig City was reported.\n\nTraditionally, rural and tribal women do all the household related chores. Heavy works that require more strength is done by the husband. Now, the chore work is evenly distributed with the men doing just as much work as the women. The scope of their functions include cooking, cleaning, teaching the children, washing clothes, repairs, budgeting, and helping in the farm. The husband is the one who makes sure the farm would yield quality crops, so he does all the maintenance work. In some cases, where the husband needs help from other men, the wife would make sure that the men are fed, so she cooks food and bring it to the farm. The Filipino women, ensures that everyone is well fed, including any workers, relatives, or visitors.\n\nIn general, Filipino women find pride in their work. They do not find themselves alienated from their chores because they work with, around, and for their families. This family-oriented mindset gives them a sense of dignity and responsibility. The family and the children are the primary priority some Filipino women's life. In addition to doing housework, the contemporary role of a Filipino wife today is to provide financial support in the household by seeking employment in higher-earning occupations which then expands the Filipino female work outside the household.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the female workforce in the Philippines was also a highly debated topic during workers’ conferences. In 1910, during the first Congress of Labor, the decision to enact a law that would regulate the employment of women and children was approved due to poor working conditions (“dark and ill-ventilated rooms, smoke-filled factories”, etc.) for women and children. Then, in March 1923, “An Act to Regulate the Employment of Women and Children in Agricultural and Non-Agricultural Establishments and Other Workplaces” was passed to oversee the welfare of women and children. In 1960, under the Department of Labor, the Bureau of Women and Minors was created and was responsible for the promotion, development, and the protection of the welfare of working women and minors. Since then, more acts were made to oversee the welfare of women workers, as seen in both the 1935 and 1973 constitutions.\n\nCompared to other countries, Filipino women have gained and enjoyed equal rights with men. They have become presidents, senators, congresswomen, mayors. They have served in government offices, and have held cabinet positions for presidents. Filipino women have proven that they are capable of carrying out responsibilities and tasks as well as their male counterparts. There are 48 women Representatives elected in the 15th Congress (2010 national election). They accounted for 21.6 percent of the total 222 Representatives as members of the Lower House. In 2010 Senatorial election, there were 14 women who ran out of 61 candidates (23.0%), of which two entered the top 12 winning senators (16.7%).\n\nThe number of women who engage in politics are smaller compare to their male counterparts. This was primarily because engagement in politics is considered \"dirty.\"\n\nA recent study revealed that there is a re-emergence of the empowerment of Filipino women through the political process, just as they were prior to the arrival of conquerors from Spain. Philippine women are rediscovering their strengths. Filipino women had been successful in implementing policies by becoming executive staff members, advisers to politicians, and as advocates within non-governmental organizations.\n\nModern-day Filipino women are making strides in electoral politics by initiating more female-oriented programs. They are performing well as leaders, although generally, Filipino women still often earn political seats by having fathers and husbands who are politically connected, a \"dynasty system\" that hinders other Filipino women from joining the electoral process. Other factors that prevent full-engagement of other well-qualified Filipino women from the Philippine political scene are the expense in politics and the importance of the family name.\n\nParticipation of Filipino women in Philippine politics was encouraged during the Beijing Declaration in 1995 at the United Nations' Fourth World Conference on Women. In February 2005, however, a United Nations review on the progress of Philippine women and their role in politics revealed that despite \"an increase in the quality of female politicians, there was not enough increase in\" the number of women participants in government activities. From 1992 to 2001, Filipino women had been elected as local chief executives, functioning as mayors, governors, and captains of villages. One influential factor contributing to the increasing number of female politicians, is the elevation of Corazon Aquino and Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo as Philippine women Presidents.\n\nIn his paintings of Filipino women, the Philippine National Artist Fernando Amorsolo rejected Western ideals of beauty in favor of Filipino ideals. He said that the women he painted have \"\"a rounded face, not of the oval type often presented to us in newspapers and magazine illustrations. The eyes should be exceptionally lively, not the dreamy, sleepy type that characterizes the Mongolian. The nose should be of the blunt form but firm and strongly marked. ... So the ideal Filipino beauty should not necessarily be white complexioned, nor of the dark brown color of the typical Malayan, but of the clear skin or fresh colored type which we often witness when we met a blushing girl\".\"\n\n\n\nWorks:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4086883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4086883", "title": "Yeji", "text": "Yeji\n\nYeji is a town in south Ghana and is the capital of Pru District of the Brong-Ahafo Region in Ghana. Yeji is in the north-east of Brong-Ahafo Region, and is adjacent to Lake Volta. Yeji is connected by highway to Ejura and Kwadjokrom. It had a population of 29,515 at the census of 2010.\n\nYeji and its surroundings form the homeland of a branch of the Chumburu people, who also have a traditional area in the kingdom of Chumburung, at the other side of Lake Volta. They speak the Chumburung language, but the Yeji dialect is quite different from the one spoken in Chumburung itself. Apart from the Chumburu, Kokombas, Gonjas and others are also native in Yeji.\n\n \n \n"}
{"id": "56616593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56616593", "title": "Zambian cuisine", "text": "Zambian cuisine\n\nZambian cuisine is heavily centered around nshima, which is a food prepared from pounded white maize. Nshima is part of nearly every Zambian meal. In addition to nshima, Zambian cuisine includes various types of stew, cooked vegetables and different types of beer. Dried fish and insects are also eaten. \n\nZambia's staple food is maize. Nshima makes up the main component of Zambian meals and is made from pounded white maize. It is served with \"relish,\" stew and vegetables and eaten by hand (preferably the right hand). Nshima is eaten during lunch and dinner. Nshima may be made at home, at food stalls and at restaurants. In traditional communities, the making of nshima is a long process, which includes drying the maize, sorting the kernels, pounding it and then finally cooking it. \n\nThe types of relish eaten with nshima can be very simple, such as \"chibwabwa\", or pumpkin leaves. Or it may be much fancier, and therefore, more expensive. Other names for the relish are \"ndiwo, ndiyo\", \"umunani\" or \"dende\". The relish made with green vegetables is generally known as \"delele\" or \"thelele\". A unique way to create relish relies on cooking with \"chidulo\" and \"kutendela\". \"Chidulo\" is used in dishes made with green, leafy vegetables and also for wild mushrooms. The \"chidulo\" is made of burnt, dry banana leaves, bean stalks or maize stalks and leaves. The ashes are then collected, added to water and strained. The resulting liquid tastes like vinegar. \"Kutendela\" is a prepared peanut powder made of pounded raw peanuts and is added to the chidulo sauce.\n\n\"Ifisashi\" is another common food in Zambia. It is a type of stew, made with greens and peanuts and served with nshima. \"Ifisashi\" can be vegetarian or cooked meat can be added to the stew. Samp is also eaten in Zambia.\n\nKapenta, a small sardine from Lake Tanganyika has been introduced in lakes in Zambia. The fish is caught and dried to be cooked later, or it can be cooked fresh. Gizzards are also a popular delicacy in Zambia.\n\nVarious insects are also eaten. These include stink bugs, and mopani worms.\n\nIn Zambia, traditional beer is made from maize. Individual villages once brewed their own recipes and it was shared communally. Maize beer is also brewed commercially in Lusaka, with Chibuku and Shake-Shake being popular brands. Other types of beer that are popular include Mosi and Rhino. The first Zambian beer festival was held on September 25, 2009 at the Barclays Sports Complex in Lusaka.\n\nThe use of maize in dishes such as \"nsima\" or \"nshima\" happened during the latter half of the twentieth century.\n\nThe Bemba people, who live in what is now Zambia, traditionally ate what was available depending on weather patterns. Bemba meals included a type of thick porridge made of millet called \"ubwali\" which was eaten with \"relish\" called \"umunani\". \"Ubwali\" was eaten with nearly every meal. \"Umunani\" was most often a type of stew made with meat, fish, insects or vegetables. The Bemba preferred to eat \"ubwali\" with only one type of relish at a time. The stews made with meat and vegetables were cooked with salt and sometimes ground-nuts. Generally, the Bemba did not eat raw food. Overall, Bemba cooking was fairly plain in taste and only occasionally acidic or spicy. Beer was an imprortant part of social events for the Bemba people and beer was brewed often during harvest months. \n\nLike the Bemba, the Chewa people also eat a porridge, called \"nsima\", which is eaten with vegetables and used as a scoop.\n\nThe Tonga people of the region have traditionally eaten insects which are cooked or dried.\n\n\n"}
