{"id": "24426773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24426773", "title": "9-12 Project", "text": "9-12 Project\n\nThe 9-12 Project (alternatively 9/12 Project, 912 Project) was a group created by American television and radio personality Glenn Beck. It was launched on the March 13, 2009, episode of \"Glenn Beck\", the eponymous talk show on Fox News Channel. A website was launched to promote the group, and several local 9-12 groups formed soon after in cities throughout the United States.\n\nAccording to Beck, the purpose of the project was \"to bring us all back to the place we were on September 12, 2001 ... we were not obsessed with red states, blue states or political parties. We were united as Americans, standing together to protect the values and principles of the greatest nation ever created.\" 9-12 represents the date following the September 11 attacks in 2001, and \"9 Principles\" and \"12 Values\" that Beck believes represent the principles and values shared by the Founding Fathers of the United States.\n\nSome of the Tea Party movement was part of the 9-12 Project serving as a sponsor for the Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12, 2009. The 9-12 Project activists claim not to identify with any major political party.\n\nThe name \"9-12\" symbolized both the day after the September 11, 2001 (written as September 12, or 9-12), and the project's \"nine principles and twelve values.\" According to the website, the 9 Principles and 12 Values were derived from the principles of the Founding Fathers:\n\nThe website listed the 9 Principles, accompanied by quotations from George Washington and Thomas Jefferson. The 9 Principles were:\n\n\nThe 12 Values were:\n\n\nThe 9-12 Project was created as the result of Beck's \"We Surround Them\" campaign, a series of segments and specials on Beck's television program in early 2009 which purported to bring back government accountability. Viewers were asked to incorporate these values first in their personal lives, then expect them of those they elected to office and holding the elected accountable. At one point during the campaign, viewers were asked to submit pictures if they believed at least seven of the nine founding principles and felt they were alone in believing these principles. Many of the pictures were used to form a collage that once lined one of the walls in Glenn Beck's Fox News Channel studio. The 9-12 Project grew out of that campaign, as a result of the original call Beck took on his nationally syndicated talk radio show, from \"Ed\" of New Haven, Connecticut. During that phone call in late January, 2009, \"Ed\" said that he felt \"outnumbered\" (as a true conservative in today's political battles). Beck told him that he would figure out a way to prove to him that he isn't alone, and that \"they,\" the powers that be, don't surround \"us\", the American people, but rather, \"We Surround Them!\"\n\nFollowing the Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12, 2009, Beck introduced a campaign for the 9-12 project called \"Re-found America\". The campaign aims to find 56 Re-Founders, who are Congressional politicians who agree to stand against corruption and abuses of power, and become whistle blowers, exposing the evidence of corruption.\n\nAs of 2017, the News section on the 9-12 Project website had not been updated since February 2014, and by June 2017 the 9-12 Project Website itself was no longer extant. In an interview before the 2016 US presidential election, Beck stated that while the 9-12 Project had often been conflated with the Tea Party movement, it had actually been set up in opposition to it.\n\nIndividuals in a number of locations in the United States formed organizations and chapters based with the 9-12 Project. The aim of such groups was to get the public active in keeping elected officials accountable to voters and taxpayers. For instance, in Murphy, North Carolina, a meeting of self-proclaimed 9-12 Project members was held on August 29, 2009 \"to plan how to elect their own representatives to the U.S. House and decrease the size and control of the federal government over the lives of American people\". The event was attended by \"more than 325 people\". Another event, in Salt Lake City, Utah, on September 12, 2009 (9-12-09), featured several speakers, from activists to conservative public officials. Over 2,000 activists were reportedly in attendance\n\n\"9/12ers\", as members of the 9/12 movement were sometimes called, also attended various Tea Party protests; among those are the Tax Day protests on April 15, 2009, the July 4, 2009 Independence Day Tea Party protests, and the September 12, 2009 Taxpayer March on Washington. The project also had a presence at other September 12, 2009 Tea Party protests in cities all across America, from Tampa to Salt Lake City to Fort Worth.\n\nMembers of certain 9-12 Project chapters held a nationwide protest in front of various news media buildings on October 17, 2009. Dubbed \"Operation: Can You Hear Us Now\", the project was started with the aim of protesting against a liberal bias in the mainstream media, and called for more honest reporting in journalism. One 9-12 member from Long Island said of the reasons behind this event that, \"...news media are not the fourth branch of government. We the people are. News media are the people's established institutions designed to facilitate the flow of information not just from government to the people, but from the people – a self-governing people – to the government we employ.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "16741397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16741397", "title": "Ahidnâme", "text": "Ahidnâme\n\nAn Ahdname, achtiname or ahidnâme (meaning the \"Bill of Oath\") is a type of Ottoman charter commonly referred to as a capitulation. During the early modern period, the Ottoman Empire called it an Ahidname-i-Humayun or an imperial pledge and the Ahdname functioned as an official agreement between the Empire and various European states.\n\nThe Ahdname still requires much detailed study regarding its historical background and about what type of document it was. What is known however is that the Ahdname was an important part of Ottoman diplomacy in that it set forth a contractual agreement between two states, usually between the Ottoman Empire and European nations, like Venice. It was influential in the way it helped to structure society and maintained the agreements made between nation states.\n\nIn Venice, Adhnames were also used to maintain political and commercial links with the Ottoman Empire. This agreement between Venice and the Ottoman Empire ensured that Italian merchants were protected during their commerce trips into the Empire. These Ahdnames also provided a certain level of physical protection as they helped provide Italian merchants with hospice. After all, Venice was very aware that in order to protect the strength of their commerce, it was imperative to remain to in good standing with the Ottoman Empire.\n\nBy the 16th Century, Venice aimed its policy towards the preservation of peaceful relations with the Ottomans. After the 1453 Conquest of Constantinople, the Ottoman Empire had become Europe's most powerful force. As a result, Venice had to tread carefully in order not to instigate any conflicts. Ahdnames became a useful tool in communication between the two competing forces.\n\nThe majority of the Ahdnames that the Ottoman Empire and Venice drafted always occurred after a war between the two, such as the two wars they were embroiled in during 1503 and 1540. The remaining treaties were simply edited for better quality and protection willingly by both the Empire and Venice.\n\nThe Ottoman Ahdname was typically broken down into several sections. Every Ahdname usually had several parts called the erkan (sing. rukn), which were deemed to be the internal structuring of the document. Not every Ahdname had similar erkan however. Instead the text was found between two protocols calls the introductory protocol and the final protocol or eschatocol.\n\nThe introductory protocol, main text, and eschatocol consisted of the several erkan:\n\nThen, the Ahdname would continue on with the main text of the document and would include the following erkan:\nOften, the authenticator was the Sultan or the Grand Vizier or simply a seal. This is the final part of the Ahdname to be written, so it is part of the eschatocol. It is important to note, that while this was the general makeup of the Ahdnames, it was not always stringently followed as such.\n\nHistorian, Daniel Goffman, writes that those that composed Ahdnames seemed to have, \"\"drawn upon Islamic, sultanic, and even local legal codes as the situations warranted.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42719718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42719718", "title": "Andeel", "text": "Andeel\n\nAndeel is an Egyptian cartoonist. His work has come into the forefront since the 2011 Egyptian revolution.\n\nAndeel was born in Kafr al-Sheikh in 1986. Andeel would often visit Cairo with his parents despite not living there. He says he loved Cairo from a young age and decided to move there when he was seventeen years old after he finished high school. His first job was with \"Al Gael\" newspaper. A year later, he moved to \"Al Dostour\" newspaper where he worked under veteran cartoonist Amr Selim. From there, Andeel moved to another privately owned paper, \"Al Masry Al Youm\", and cofounded its quarterly comics magazine, \"Tok-Tok\".\n\nAndeel liked cartoons as a kid. His father showed him the work of Egyptian cartoonist Salah Jaheen, which he says has had a huge impact on his work. Many of the work Andeel was exposed to prior to Jaheen was foreign, so seeing Jaheen’s work about Egypt was a motivating factor to his getting involved in cartooning. Before becoming a prominent cartoonist, however, Andeel tried his luck at script writing and standup comedy.\n\nMost of Andeel's work is based on political satire.\nHis uncle told him that his paternal grandfather was a filmmaker who made a feature film called “Horses,” which he took to the Berlin Film Festival. Due to racism it was overlooked for the big prize though it clearly deserved it, and on the boat back to Egypt he threw the only copy of the film overboard and retired from cinema. Knowledge of this outrage compelled Andeel to move to Cairo and become a professional cartoonist at a very early age, as well as making short films (such as “Who Knows?”, a psychedelic film noir set in the wild west), writing TV scripts, designing newspapers, co-founding “Tok Tok” comics magazine, launching “Radhio Kafril Sheikh el Habeeba,” and using Facebook a lot. He is studying for a certificate in social work. In 2012 he got married to a really great woman.\n\n"}
{"id": "10638590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10638590", "title": "Antisemitic League of France", "text": "Antisemitic League of France\n\nThe Antisemitic League of France () was founded in 1889 by the journalist Edouard Drumont. First known under the name of (National Antisemitic League of France) or (French Antisemitic League), this nationalist league was particularly active during the Dreyfus Affair. Beside spreading anti-Semitic propaganda, the League was also anti-Masonry and anti-Communist. It had as general delegates Jacques de Biez. Jules Guérin was an active member of it. The League was located on rue Lepic in Paris.\n\nIts 1889 foundation was inspired by the success of Drumont's antisemitic pamphlet \"La France juive\" (1886), and also by the Boulangist crisis. It was supported by newspapers such as Drumont's \"La Libre Parole\"; Jules Guérin's French weekly \"L'Antijuif ()\" (Paris, 1896-1902); the daily \"La Cocarde ()\" (1888-1907) founded by Georges de Labruyère () and edited September 1894 - March 1895 by Maurice Barrès; Henri Rochefort's \"L'Intransigeant\"; and the Catholic newspaper \"La Croix\".\n\nBeside propaganda, the League also organized antisemitic demonstrations and provoked some riots, a method later generalized by the far-right leagues in France. It denounced the Panama scandals, took side against Alfred Dreyfus and spread conspiracy theories concerning the Masonry's alleged activities in the Third Republic.\n\nAfter a disagreement between Drumont and Guérin in 1899, the League became, under the direction of Guérin, the Grand Occident de France, still antisemitic but even more anti-Masonic, the name itself being a reaction against the Masonic Grand Orient de France. It was thereafter essentially linked to Guérin's newspaper, \"L'Antijuif\". The League progressively disappeared after the \"Fort Chabrol\" affair and the arrest of Guérin. After an initial surge during the Dreyfus Affair, far right leagues appeared again during the interwar period.\n\n"}
{"id": "20603540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20603540", "title": "Autonomous Republic of Northern Epirus", "text": "Autonomous Republic of Northern Epirus\n\nThe Autonomous Republic of Northern Epirus () was a short-lived, self-governing entity founded in the aftermath of the Balkan Wars on February 28, 1914 by Greeks living in southern Albania (Northern Epirotes).\n\nThe area, known as Northern Epirus (Βόρειος Ήπειρος) to Greeks and with a substantial Greek population, was taken by the Greek Army from the Ottoman Empire during the First Balkan War (1912–1913). The Protocol of Florence, however, had assigned it to the newly established Albanian state. This decision was rejected by the local Greeks, and as the Greek army withdrew to the new border, an autonomous government was set up at Argyrokastron (, today Gjirokastër), under the leadership of Georgios Christakis-Zografos, a distinguished local Greek politician and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, and with tacit support from Greece.\n\nIn May, the autonomy was confirmed by the Great Powers with the Protocol of Corfu. The agreement ensured that the region would have its own administration, recognized the rights of the local population and provided for self-government under nominal Albanian sovereignty. However, it was never implemented because in August the Albanian government collapsed. The Greek Army reoccupied the area in October 1914 following the outbreak of World War I. It was planned that Northern Epirus would be ceded to Greece following the war, but withdrawal of Italian support and Greece's defeat in the Asia Minor Campaign resulted in its final cession to Albania in November 1921.\n\nIn March 1913, during the First Balkan War, the Greek Army entered Ioannina after breaching the Ottoman fortifications at Bizani, and soon afterwards advanced further north. Himarë had already been under Greek control since 5 November 1912, after a local Himariote, Gendarmerie Major Spyros Spyromilios, led a successful uprising that met no initial resistance. By the end of the war, Greek armed forces controlled most of the historical region of Epirus, from the Ceraunian mountains along the Ionian coast to Lake Prespa in the east.\n\nAt the same time, the Albanian independence movement gathered momentum. On 28 November 1912 in Vlorë, Ismail Qemali declared Albania's independence, and a provisional government was soon formed that exercised its authority only in the immediate area of Vlorë. Elsewhere, the Ottoman general Essad Pasha formed the Republic of Central Albania at Durrës, while conservative Albanian tribesmen still hoped for an Ottoman ruler. Most of the area that would form the Albanian state was occupied at this time, by the Greeks in the south and the Serbs in the north.\n\nThe last Ottoman census, conducted in 1908, counted 128,000 Orthodox Christians and 95,000 Muslims in the region. Of the Orthodox population, an estimated 30,000 to 47,000 spoke Greek exclusively. The rest of the Orthodox community spoke an Albanian patois at home, but was literate only in Greek, which was used in cultural, trading and economic activities. Moreover, they expressed a strong pro-Greek feeling, and were the first to support the following breakaway autonomist movement. Considering these conditions, loyalty in Northern Epirus to an Albanian government competing in an anarchy, whose leaders were mostly Muslim, could not be guaranteed.\n\nThe concept of an independent Albanian state was supported by the Great European Powers, particularly Austro-Hungary and Italy. Both powers were seeking to control Albania, which, in the words of Italian Foreign Minister Tommaso Tittoni, would give whichever managed this \"incontestable supremacy in the Adriatic\". The Serbian possession of Shkodër and the possibility of the Greek border running a few miles south of Vlore was therefore strongly resisted by these states.\n\nIn September 1913, an International Commission of the European Powers convened to determine the boundary between Greece and Albania. The delegates of the commission aligned themselves into two camps: those of Italy and Austro-Hungary insisted that the Northern Epirus districts were Albanian, while those of the Triple Entente (the United Kingdom, France, and Russia) took the view that although the older generations in some villages spoke Albanian, the younger generation was Greek in intellectual outlook, sentiment, and aspirations. Under Italian and Austro-Hungarian pressure, the commission determined that the region of Northern Epirus would be ceded to Albania.\n\nWith the delineation of the exact boundaries of the new state, the region of Northern Epirus was awarded to Albania under the terms of the Protocol of Florence, signed on 17 December 1913. On 21 February 1914, the ambassadors of the Great Powers delivered a note to the Greek government asking for the Greek army's evacuation of the area. Greek Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos acceded to this in hopes of a favorable solution to Greece's other outstanding problem: the recognition of Greek sovereignty over the islands of the North Eastern Aegean.\n\nThis turn of events was highly unpopular among the pro-Greek party in the area. The pro-Greek Epirotes felt betrayed by the Greek government, which had done nothing to support them with firearms. Additionally, the gradual withdrawal of the Greek army would enable Albanian forces to take control of the region. To avert this possibility, the Epirotes decided to declare their own separate political identity and self-governance. Georgios Christakis-Zografos, a distinguished Epirote statesman from Lunxhëri (gr. \"Lioúntzi\") and former Greek foreign minister, took the initiative and discussed the situation with local representatives in a \"Panepirotic Council\". Consequently, on 28 February 1914, the Autonomous Republic of Northern Epirus was declared in Gjirokastër (gr. \"Argyrókastron\") and a provisional government, with Christakis-Zografos as president, formed to support the state's objectives.\n\nThe flag of the new state was a variant of the Greek national flag, consisting of a white cross centered upon the blue background surmounted by the imperial Byzantine eagle in black.\n\nIn the following days, Alexandros Karapanos, Zografos' nephew and a MP for Arta, was installed as foreign minister. Colonel Dimitrios Doulis, a local from Nivice, resigned from his post in the Greek army and joined the provisional government as minister of military affairs. Within a few days, he managed to mobilize an army consisting of more than 5,000 volunteer troops. The local bishop, Vasileios of Dryinoupolis, took office as minister of Religion and Justice. A number of officers of Epirote origin (not exceeding 30), as well as ordinary soldiers, deserted their positions in the Greek Army and joined the revolutionaries. Soon, armed groups, such as the \"Sacred Band\" or Spyromilios' men around Himarë (gr. \"Himárra\"), were formed in order to repel any incursion into the territory claimed by the autonomous government. The first districts to join the autonomist movement outside of Gjirokastër were Himarë, Sarandë and Përmet.\n\nThe Greek government was reluctant to overtly support the uprising. Military and political officials continued to carry out a slow evacuation process, which had begun in March and ended on 28 April. Resistance was officially discouraged, and assurances were given that the Great Powers and the International Control Commission (an organization founded by the Great Powers in order to secure peace and stability in the area) would guarantee their rights. Following the declaration in Gjirokastër, Zografos sent messages to local representatives in Korçë (gr. \"Korytsá\") asking them to join the movement; however, the Greek military commander of the city, Colonel Alexandros Kontoulis, followed his official orders strictly and declared martial law, threatening to shoot any citizen raising the Northern Epirote flag. When the local bishop of Kolonjë (gr. Kolónia), Spyridon, proclaimed the Autonomy, Kontoulis had him immediately arrested and expelled.\nOn March 1, Kontoulis ceded the region to the newly formed Albanian gendarmerie, consisting mainly of former deserters of the Ottoman army and under the command of Dutch and Austrian officers. On March 9, the Greek navy blockaded the port of Sarandë (gr. \"Ágioi Saránda\", known also as \"Santi Quaranta\"), one of the first cities that had joined the autonomist movement. There were also sporadic conflicts between Greek army and Epirote units, with a few casualties on both sides.\n\nAs the Greek army withdrew, armed conflicts broke out between Albanian and Northern Epirote forces. In the regions of Himarë, Sarandë, Gjirokastër and Delvinë (gr. \"Delvínion\"), the revolt had been in full force since the first days of the declaration, and the autonomist forces were able to successfully engage the Albanian gendarmerie, as well as Albanian irregular units. However, Zografos, seeing that the Great Powers would not approve the annexation of Northern Epirus to Greece, suggested three possible diplomatic solutions:\n\nOn March 7, Prince William of Wied arrived in Albania, and intense fighting occurred north of Gjirokastër, in the region of Cepo, in an attempt to take control over Northern Epirus; Albanian gendarmerie units tried unsuccessfully to infiltrate southwardly, facing resistance from the Epirotes. On March 11, a provisional settlement was brokered in Corfu by Dutch Colonel Thomson. Albania was prepared to accept a limited Northern Epirote government, but Karapanos insisted on complete autonomy, a condition rejected by the Albanian delegates, and negotiations reached a deadlock. Meanwhile, Epirote bands entered Erseka and continued on to Frashër and Korçë.\n\nAt this point, the entire region that had been claimed by the provisional government, with the exception of Korçë, was under its control. On March 22, a Sacred Band unit from Bilisht reached the outskirts of Korçë and joined the local guerillas, and fierce street fighting took place. For several days, Northern Epirote units controlled the city, but on March 27 this control was lost to the Albanian gendarmerie upon the arrival of Albanian reinforcements.\n\nThe International Control Commission, in order to avoid a major escalation of the armed conflicts with disastrous results, decided to intervene. On May 6, Zografos received a communication to initiate negotiations on a new basis. Zografos accepted the proposal and an armistice was ordered the next day. By the time the cease-fire order was received, the Epirote forces had secured the Morava heights near Korçë, making the city's Albanian garrison's surrender imminent.\n\nNegotiations were carried out on the island of Corfu, where on 17 May 1914 Albanian and Epirote representatives signed an agreement known as the Protocol of Corfu. According to its terms, the two provinces of Korçë and Gjirokastër that constituted Northern Epirus would acquire complete autonomous existence (as a \"corpus separatum\") under the nominal Albanian sovereignty of Prince Wied. The Albanian government had the right to appoint and dismiss governors and upper-rank officials, taking into account as much as possible the opinion of the local population. Other terms included the proportional recruitment of natives into the local gendarmerie and the prohibition of military levies from people not indigenous to the region. In Orthodox schools, the Greek language would be the sole medium of instruction, with the exception of the first three classes. The use of the Greek language was made equal to Albanian in all public affairs. The Ottoman-era privileges of Himarë were renewed, and a foreigner was to be appointed as its \"captain\" for 10 years.\n\nThe execution of and adherence to the Protocol was entrusted to the International Control Commission, as was the organization of public administration and the departments of justice and finance in the region. The creation and training of the local gendarmerie was to be conducted by Dutch officers.\n\nThe agreement of the Protocol was ratified by the representatives of the Great Powers at Athens on 18 June and by the Albanian government on 23 June. The Epirote representatives, in an assembly in Delvinë, gave the final approval to the terms of the Protocol, although the delegates from Himara protested, claiming that union with Greece was the only viable solution. On July 8, control of the cities of Tepelenë and Korçë passed to the provisional government of Northern Epirus.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War I, the situation in Albania became unstable, and political chaos emerged as the country was split into a number of regional governments. As a consequence of the anarchy in central and northern Albania, sporadic armed conflicts continued to occur in spite of the Protocol of Corfu's ratification, and on September 3 Prince Wilhelm departed the country. In the following days, an Epirote unit launched an attack on the Albanian garrison in Berat without approval from the provisional government, managing to capture its citadel for several days, while Albanian troops loyal to Essad Pasha initiated small-scale armed operations.\n\nThese events worried Greek Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos, as well as the possibility that the unstable situation could spill over outside Albania, triggering a wider conflict. On 27 October, after receiving the approval of the Great Powers, the Greek Army's V Army Corps entered the area for a second time. The provisional government formally ceased to exist, declaring that it had accomplished its objectives.\n\nDuring the Greek administration at the time of the First World War, it had been agreed to by Greece, Italy and the Great Powers that the final settlement of the Northern Epirote issue would be left for the post-war future. In August 1915, Eleftherios Venizelos stated in the Greek parliament that \"only colossal faults\" could separate the region from Greece. Upon Venizelos' resignation in December, however, the succeeding royalist governments were determined to exploit the situation and predetermine the region's future by formally incorporating it into the Greek state. In the first months of 1916, Northern Epirus participated in the Greek elections and elected 16 representatives to the Greek Parliament. In March, the region's union with Greece was officially declared, and the area was divided into the prefectures of Argyrokastro and Korytsa.\n\nThe politically unstable situation that followed in Greece during the next months, with the National Schism between royalists and Venizelos’ supporters, divided Greece into two states. This situation, according also to the development of the Balkan Front, led Italian forces in Gjirokastër to enter the area in September 1916, after gaining the approval of the Triple Entente, and to take over most of Northern Epirus. An exception was Korçë which was retaken by French forces from Bulgarian occupation, and turned into the Autonomous Albanian Republic of Korçë under the military protection of the French army. After the war's end in 1918, the tendency to reestablish the autonomy of the region continued.\n\nUnder the terms of the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 (the Venizelos-Tittoni agreement), Northern Epirus was to be awarded to Greece, but political developments such as the Greek defeat in the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922) and strong Italian opposition in favor of Albania caused the area to be finally ceded to Albania in 1921.\n\nIn February 1922, the Albanian Parliament approved the Declaration of Minority Rights. However, the Declaration, contrary to the Protocol of Corfu, recognized minority rights only in a limited area (parts of Gjirokastër, Sarandë district and 3 villages in Himarë), without implementing any form of local autonomy. All Greek schools in the excluded area were forced to close until 1935, in violation of obligations accepted by the Albanian government at the League of Nations. In 1925, Albania's present borders were set, leading Greece to abandon its claims to Northern Epirus.\n\nFrom the Albanian perspective, adopted also by Italian and Austrian sources of that time, the Northern Epirote movement was directly supported by the Greek state, with the help of a minority of inhabitants in the region, resulting in chaos and political instability in all of Albania. In Albanian historiography, the Protocol of Corfu is either scarcely mentioned or seen as an attempt to divide the Albanian state and proof of the Great Powers' disregard for Albania's national integrity.\n\nWith the ratification of the Protocol of Corfu, the term \"Northern Epirus\", the state’s common name—and consequently that of its citizens, \"Northern Epirotes\"—acquired official status. However, after the region's cession to Albania, these terms were considered associated with Greek irredentist action and not granted legal status by the Albanian authorities; anyone making use of them was persecuted as an enemy of the state.\n\nThe autonomy question remains on the diplomatic agenda in Albanian-Greek relations as part of the Northern Epirote issue. In 1925, Albania's borders were fixed by the Protocol of Florence, and the Kingdom of Greece abandoned all claims to Northern Epirus. In the 1960s, Soviet General Secretary Nikita Khrushchev asked his Albanian counterpart about giving autonomy to the Greek minority, with no results. In 1991, after the collapse of the communist regime in Albania, the chairman of Greek minority organization \"Omonoia\" called for autonomy for Northern Epirus, on the basis that the rights provided for under the Albanian constitution were highly precarious. This proposal was rejected, spurring the minority's radical wing to call for a union with Greece. Two years later, Omonoia’s chairman was arrested by the Albanian police after publicly stating that the Greek minority goal was the creation of an autonomous region inside the Albanian borders, based on the provisions of the Protocol of Corfu. In 1997, Albanian analysts stated that the possibility of a Greek minority-inspired breakaway Republic still exists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3904552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3904552", "title": "Bald Knobbers", "text": "Bald Knobbers\n\nThe Bald Knobbers were a group of vigilantes in the Ozark region of southwest Missouri from 1883 to 1889. They are commonly depicted wearing black horned hoods with white outlines of faces painted on them, a distinction that evolved during the rapid proliferation of the group into neighboring counties from its Taney County origins. The group got its name from the grassy bald knob summits of the nearby Ozark Mountains. The hill where they first met, Snapp's Bald, is located just north of Kirbyville, Missouri. An article in the October 5, 1898 issue of Springfield, Missouri's \"The Leader-Democrat\" states:\n\nThe Bald Knobbers, who for the most part had sided with the North in the American Civil War, were opposed by the Anti-Bald Knobbers, who for the most part had sided with the Confederates. Hernando summarizes their political role:\n\nDuring the Civil War, Missouri as a border state was hard hit by neighbor against neighbor bushwhacker fighting. After the war the neighbor versus neighbor fighting continued throughout the state with perhaps the most famous being the actions of the James-Younger Gang. Authorities had a difficult time bringing the criminal fighting under control because both sides still held strong partisan supporters. Between 1865 and 1885, Taney County reported there were 40 murders and not a single suspect was ever convicted. The Bald Knobbers initially set out to put an end to the marauding gangs. But the Bald Knobbers were to end up having their own excesses and criminal activities.\n\nIn 1883, thirteen men led by Nat N. Kinney formed the group, in retaliation against the hordes of invading marauders that had plagued the area since the start of the Reconstruction Era. The original thirteen were Nat Kinney, James A. DeLong, Alonzo S. Prather, Yell Everett, James B. Rice, T.W. Phillips, James R VanZandt, Pat F. Fickle, Galba E. Branson, J. J. Brown, Charles H. Groom, James K. Polk McHaffie, and possibly Ben Price. During the period of 1865-1882, over thirty murders were committed, none leading to a conviction. The group was called both the \"Citizen's Committee\" and \"The Law and Order League\" by its members. However, because their secret meetings were held atop a \"bald\" mountaintop (in order to keep a lookout for spies), the public began to refer to them as the Bald Knobbers. As their numbers grew into the hundreds, out of a county of only 7,000 people, the original intent began to lose focus. Though initially praised for driving out the notorious outlaws (such as the Taylor brothers), public sentiment soon turned against them.\n\nAlthough the men initially wore nothing more than a simple kerchief over their lower faces, if any disguise at all, many soon adopted a simple white muslin hood with corners tied off like ears, and cut out eye and mouth holes. This fearsome appearance only inflamed the anti-sentiment, peaking with the formation of the anti-Bald Knobbers. While the Bald Knobbers were mostly Republicans that had fought for the Union Army, most of the anti-Bald Knobbers were Democrats who had supported the Confederacy. When the county courthouse burned down, both rival sides pointed fingers at each other, intensifying the bitterness between the groups.\n\nThis loosely knit anti-Bald Knobber faction was best represented by the 19-year-old orphan Andy Coggburn. Coggburn hated Kinney, a very persuasive individual with a mysterious past, who had moved into the area with his family two years before the Bald Knobbers came into being. Coggburn took great pleasure in deriding Kinney, pulling pranks and speaking out against the vigilante gang. Kinney and his fellow Bald Knobbers held considerable pull in the county, and in no time Coggburn was shot and killed by Kinney in \"self defense\" outside the local church of Forsyth, where Kinney had gone to preach that night.\n\nIn 1886, after gaining national notoriety from their exploits, and embarrassing state leaders, Missouri Governor John S. Marmaduke sent Adjutant General J.C. Jamison to Forsyth to investigate the situation. Upon arrival, although the representative was pleased to see the atmosphere of order that prevailed, he recommended to Kinney that an official dissolution of the Bald Knobbers would be in the best interest of the county. That next day a formal dissolution ceremony was held in the town square where the Bald Knobbers were publicly disbanded, having served their original purpose.\n\nNeighboring counties such as Christian, Douglas, Greene, and Stone had already adopted the idea of masked night riders, and disregarded the strict rules that had governed the original Taney county chapter. The Christian County group became the most notorious by far. At the time Chadwick was the most bustling town of Christian County due to the nearby railroad, and a prime market for timber made into railroad ties. However, Chadwick's design as a \"railroad town\" meant that saloons and brothels dominated the area, and led many men to gamble, drink, and whore away their week's earnings.\n\nIn a move towards moral straightening, the Christian County chapter was led by Dave Walker. However, his seventeen-year-old son Billy Walker was a wild force within their group. Though it is rumored the Walkers had invited Nat Kinney from neighboring Taney County to help institute the Christian County chapter, it is doubtful this occurred since Kinney had recently disbanded the original group himself. There were also several differences between the groups. The Christian County group held meetings at a large cave on the edge of the Walker's land, and the members wore black hoods with cork or wooden horns protruding out of the top, decoratively designed with white or red stripes around the eyes, mouth, and horns, and sometimes with tassels dangling off the horn points. The members also routinely burned down saloons, and were generally more threatening than the Taney County group had been.\n\nWilliam Edens was a young opponent of the group, and would publicly criticize them. After he received several warnings (including a late-night beating), tragedy struck. The night of March 11, 1887, the Christian County group met at the cave to discuss disbanding. However, that night new members were inducted, and several members were incensed by new remarks William Edens had made about the band. As the meeting finished, many of the younger men headed home the long way, towards the Edens' cabin. Captain David Walker pleaded with them not to go, but his son Billy and several others, including Wiley Mathews, were headstrong.\n\nWhen the men discovered that Edens was not home, they continued up the road to the cabin of James and Elizabeth Edens, William's parents. William Edens and his sick wife, Emma, were staying the night. So were James and Elizabeth's daughter Melvina who was sick with the measles, Melvina's husband, Charles Green and the Green children ages three years and three months. The Bald-Knobbers busted in the windows and splintered in the doors of the tiny cabin, spraying shotgun blasts as they intruded. In the gunshot exchange, William Edens and Charles Green were killed, James Edens seriously wounded from an axe blow to the head and Bald Knobbers William Walker and John Mathews shot. The wails of the women and children led neighbors to the scene of the massacre. First to arrive was Charles Green's father, George Green, who lived near enough to hear the shots.\n\nThough Dave Walker had attempted to prevent the men in his group from letting their actions escalate, his very presence in the nearby road at the time of the attack ultimately doomed him. After 80 men were indicted and tried in a series of worldwide-media covered trials over the course of the next 18 months, it was ultimately decided that four would hang for the crimes: Dave Walker, his young son Billy, Deacon John Mathews and his nephew Wiley Mathews. Wiley would later escape the county's new jail, leaving the three others to be punished for the reign of the vigilantes.\n\nAs the Christian County men awaited their fate in jail, old rivalries ran rampant. A group of Anti-Bald Knobbers, still unsatisfied with the outsider Kinney's intrusion into their community, met together and selected an assassin for their cause. In August 1888, farmer Billy Miles entered a store where Kinney was inventorying for the courts, and killed the ex-Bald Knobber leader with three shots from his pistol. He then stepped outside and surrendered to the law, claiming self-defense. The event made worldwide news, and Billy Miles was given full exoneration in very little time.\n\nBack in Christian County, the execution date came to bear on May 10, 1889. After a late night of prayer services and repentance, the next morning the three men were led out into an enclosed area and onto a scaffolding the sheriff built himself, despite not having any prior hanging experience in executing prisoners. After last-minute prayers and final goodbyes between a father and son, the trap was sprung. Onlookers watched the three men twist and writhe on ropes that were too long. The condemned men's feet dragged along the ground, and at one point young Billy's rope broke, leaving him writhing on the ground and calling out for help. He was re-hanged, and after thirty-four minutes, the last of them finally died. Public criticism of the botched executions ran rampant.\n\nTaney County's loose Bald Knobber threads were being tied together at long last as well, as the law officially sought vengeance for Nat Kinney's untimely assassination. Sheriff Galba Branson enlisted the aide of an out-of-state bounty hunter named Ed Funk. Together they sought Billy Miles on the Fourth of July, 1889. After visiting several Independence Day celebrations, they finally found him at a spring with a group of men on the edge of the Kirbyville Picnic. They approached him with warning shots, and a gunfight broke out between the ex-Bald Knobber supporters, the Anti-Bald Knobber supporters, and the lawmen. Both Funk and Branson were killed, and Billy Miles and his brothers fled the area.\n\nThough the Kirbyville Shootout is seen as the general end to the story of the Bald Knobbers, there was at least one more quiet incident in 1890 involving an adulterer being lynched by a band of masked men, and here and there lie undocumented stories about unofficial retributions involving masked hoodlums in neighboring counties all the way up into the 1920s. Bald knobber stories made headlines across the country at the time, and again as the original Bald Knobbers passed away.\n\nAs early as 1887 the Bald Knobber story was already being translated into popular culture as a play titled \"The Bald Knob Tragedy of Taney and Christian Counties\". The start of Branson-area and Taney County tourism began with the 1907 publication of Harold Bell Wright's \"The Shepherd of the Hills\", which features generic Bald Knobbers as the story's villains. Later, the Mabe family began a local country and western comedy revue called \"Baldknobbers\" (one word, and named solely for the humorous quality of the name rather than for any historical purpose); the Mabe family attraction started the music-show presence for which Branson has become famous.\n\nMore recent Bald Knobber-related fare includes the indoor roller-coaster ride, Fire in the Hole, at the Silver Dollar City theme park; it is a ride through a Bald Knobber theme, but not specifically grounded in any historical events. Starting in 2000, the White River Valley Historical Society in Forsyth began producing a \"Law Day\" festival, featuring a Bald Knobber pageant focusing on the Taney County Bald Knobber history. And finally, a documentary produced about the vigilantes, featuring several reenactments, original locations, and descendants of either side, entitled \"Fire in the Mountain\", premiered at several film festivals beginning in the spring of 2007 (winning the Gold Remi Award at Worldfest in Houston, TX), and had its television premiere on Jan. 13th, 2011, on the OPT Missouri PBS station as part of their Ozarks Reflections series. A feature film version is also in the works. There are few books and merchandise relating to Bald Knobber history, but documentary producer/director Damon Blalack has heavily researched and collected many items relating to the group in his creation of \"Fire in the Mountain\", and plans to help establish a stronger museum representation of the history in conjunction with the White River Valley Historical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172543", "title": "Black bloc", "text": "Black bloc\n\nA black bloc is a name given to groups of protesters who wear black clothing, scarves, sunglasses, ski masks, motorcycle helmets with padding, or other face-concealing and face-protecting items. The clothing is used to conceal wearers' identities and hinder criminal prosecution by making it difficult to distinguish between participants. It is also used to protect their faces and eyes from pepper spray, which is used by law enforcement during protests or civil unrest. The tactic allows the group to appear as one large unified mass. Black bloc participants are often associated with anarchism, anti-globalization movement or antifascism.\n\nThe tactic was developed in the 1980s in the European autonomist movement's protests against squatter evictions, nuclear power, and restrictions on abortion, as well as other influences. Black blocs gained broader media attention outside Europe during the 1999 Seattle WTO protests, when a black bloc damaged property of Gap, Starbucks, Old Navy, and other multinational retail locations in downtown Seattle.\n\nThis tactic was developed in response to increased use of police force following the 1977 Brokdorf demonstration.\nOn 1 May 1987, demonstrators in Berlin-Kreuzberg were confronted by West German police. After this, thousands of people attacked the police with rocks, bottles and Molotov cocktails. The riots at the May Day in Kreuzberg became famous after the police had to completely pull out of the \"SO 36\" neighborhood in Kreuzberg for several hours, and rioters looted shops together with residents.\n\nWhen Ronald Reagan came to Berlin in June 1987, he was met by around 50,000 demonstrators protesting against his Cold War policies. This included a black bloc of 3,000 people. In November 1987, the residents were joined by thousands of other protesters and fortified their squat, built barricades in the streets and defended themselves against the police for nearly 24 hours. After this the city authorities legalised the squatters residence.\n\nOn 1 May 1988, radical left groups organised a May Day demonstration through Berlin-Kreuzberg, ending in riots even heavier than the year before. The police were attacked with steel balls fired by slingshots, stones, fireworks and Molotov cocktails. On 2 May, headline of the Berlin newspaper BZ was \"Beirut?? Nein, das ist Berlin!\" (Beirut?? No, it's Berlin!). The riots finally became a tradition in Berlin-Kreuzberg and have recurred every 1 May since, but never as fatally as in the first two years. When the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund met in Berlin in 1988, the autonomen hosted an international gathering of anti-capitalist activists. Numbering around 80,000, the protesters greatly outnumbered the police. Officials tried to maintain control by banning all demonstrations and attacking public assemblies. Nevertheless, there were riots and upmarket shopping areas were destroyed.\n\nIn the period after the Berlin Wall, the German black bloc movement continued traditional riots such as May Day in Berlin-Kreuzberg, but with decreasing intensity. Their main focus became the struggle against the recurring popularity of Neo-Nazism in Germany. The \"turn\" came in June 2007, during the 33rd G8 summit. A black bloc of 2,000 people built barricades, set cars alight and attacked the police during a mass demonstration in Rostock. 400 police officers were injured, and also about 500 demonstrators and activists. According to the German Verfassungsschutz, the weeks of organisation before the demonstration and the riots themselves were amounted to a revival for the militant left in Germany. Since the \"Battle of Rostock\", traditional \"May Day Riots\" after demonstrations every 1 May in Berlin, and since 2008 also in Hamburg, became more intense, and violence of the autonomen against police officers and political enemies at demonstrations of radical left groups have dramatically increased.\n\nOn the day of President Donald Trump's inauguration, black bloc groups were present among other protests in Washington, D.C. and other places. The groups engaged in vandalism, rioting, and violence. At least 217 were arrested and six police officers sustained minor injuries, and at least one other person was injured.\n\nIn February 2017, an event at the University of California, Berkeley by commentator Milo Yiannopoulos was cancelled by college administrators after protestors of a black bloc broke windows, shot fireworks, and caused a light fixture to catch fire. The cancellation of the event brought mainstream attention to anarchism and black bloc tactics, and led to a larger conversation about the role of violence in protest movements.\n\nThe first recorded use of the tactic in United States of America occurred at the Pentagon, in Washington, D.C. on 17 October 1988. Over one thousand demonstrators—a small number consisting of a black bloc—called for the end to U.S. support for the right wing death squads in El Salvador. A black bloc caused damage to property of GAP, Starbucks, Old Navy, and other retail locations in downtown Seattle during the 1999 anti-WTO demonstrations. They were a common feature of subsequent anti-globalization protests.\n\nIn the years after the end of the Vietnam War, protest in the US came to assume more legalistic, orderly forms, and was increasingly dominated by the middle-class. This corresponded with the rise of a highly effective police strategy of crowd control called \"negotiated management.\" Many social scientists have noted the \"institutionalization of movements\" in this period. These currents largely constrained disruptive protest until 1999. In an unprecedented success for post-Vietnam era civil disobedience, the WTO Ministerial Conference opening ceremonies were shut down completely, host city Seattle declared a state of emergency for nearly a week, multilateral trade negotiations between the wealthy and developing nations collapsed, and all of this was done without fatalities. This occurred in the midst of mass rioting which had been set off by militant anarchists, some of them in a black bloc formation.\n\nIn the lead up to the shutdown, local group Seattle Anarchist Response (SAR) had circulated Ward Churchill's text \"Pacifism as Pathology\" freely among protesters. SAR actively promoted among the rank-and-file of the Direct Action Network (DAN) and criticized NGO hegemony of the protests. They often found an enthusiastic response.\n\nThe call for the Seattle protest had originally come from Peoples Global Action (a network co-founded by the Zapatistas) which supported diversity of tactics and a highly flexible definition of nonviolence. In the aftermath of the shutdown, however, various NGO spokespeople associated with Seattle DAN claimed that the riotous aspect of the WTO protests was counterproductive and undemocratic. They also asserted that it was only an insignificantly small group from Eugene, Oregon that engaged in property destruction. Medea Benjamin told \"The New York Times\" that \"These anarchists should have been arrested,\" while Lori Wallach of Public Citizen stated that she had instructed Teamsters to assault black bloc participants. In response, numerous scholar-activists including Barbara Ehrenreich decried the NGO leaders as \"hypocrites,\" and wrote that nonviolent activists ought to be \"treating the young rock-throwers like sisters and brothers in the struggle.\" The author-activist also criticized the dominant nonviolent paradigm as \"absurdly ritualized.\" The solution to Ehrenreich's impasse was the growing acceptance of black bloc tactics in the anti-globalization movement.\n\nDuring the 2010 G20 Summit in Toronto, a black bloc riot damaged a number of retail locations including an Urban Outfitters, American Apparel, Adidas Store, Starbucks and many banking establishments.\n\nDuring the June–July 2013 mass public demonstrations, groups of people using Black Bloc tactics started attending demonstrations, especially those held across the street from governor of Rio de Janeiro State Sérgio Cabral's residence and the state government palace. Police face accusations of infiltrating the movement and, at times, acting as agents provocateurs by starting confrontations. Many leftists claim that video footage shows an infiltrated police officer throwing a molotov cocktail that wounded a riot policeman, although this has been denied by the police and hasn't been proven until today (2017). Protester violence occurred regularly during the Brazilian protests (particularly the week of 17 to 21 June) even when not linked with the black bloc, or with police infiltration.\n\nDespite the denunciations by media, police, and even some activists, the black bloc tactic persisted in the movement. By October 2013, \"The mask-wearers were welcomed by the protesters who wanted to wreak havoc during manifestations...Indeed, this sense of solidarity amidst the demonstrations, this shared manning of barricades, inspires a common determination to fight against the fear of repression.\" According to a report by two Brazilian leftists published in Al Jazeera, this coincided with a revival in the breadth of the street protests that had not been seen since its early days in June. On 10 October, the Rio teacher's union (Sepe) officially declared support for the recent black bloc actions, stating that the bloc were \"welcome\" at their demonstrations. Postings on teacher Facebook groups praised bloc participants as \"fearless.\"\n\nDuring May 1, 2018, over 1,200 black bloc took part of strikes in Paris, France. High damages on public infrastructures and stores were committed.\nA group of about 400 black bloc demonstrators took part in the 2011 London anti-cuts protest where they attacked various high end retail outlets; according to journalist Paul Mason this may have been the largest ever black bloc assembly in the UK. Mason says some of the participants were anarchists from Europe, others were British students radicalised after participation in the 2010 UK student protests. A black bloc protested the opening of the universal exposition Expo 2015 in Milan.\n\nAmongst hundreds of thousands of protesters protesting the G20 Summit in Hamburg Germany were thousands of violent black clad rioters who vandalised the city day and night, mostly at night.\n\nOn 25 January 2013, on the second anniversary of the Egyptian Revolution, black blocs made an appearance in the Egyptian political scenes where they have reportedly attacked various Muslim Brotherhood headquarters and government buildings and stopped traffic and metro lines in more than 8 cities. A group of young protesters, who identified themselves as the \"Black Bloc\", have marked the second anniversary of the Egyptian revolution by blocking the tramway tracks in Alexandria on Friday. Egyptian Prosecutor General Talaat Abdallah ordered the police and armed forces to arrest any participant in the Black Bloc, pointing out that the group was carrying out \"terrorist activities\" and is considered by the government and under the new Constitution a violent radical outlaw group.\n\nOn occasion, police and security services have infiltrated black blocs, apparently for purposes of investigation, provocation. Allegations first surfaced after several demonstrations. At the 2001 G8 summit in Genoa, among the many complaints about the police there was mention of video footage which \"suggests that men in black were seen getting out of police vans near protest marches.\" In August 2007, Quebec police admitted that \"their officers disguised themselves as demonstrators\" in Montebello. However, the officers purportedly did not engage in violence, and claimed that they were carrying rocks because other protesters were doing so. They were identified by genuine protesters because of their police-issue footwear. According to veteran activist Harsha Walia, it was other participants in the black bloc who identified and exposed the undercover police.\n\nThere is no evidence that the black bloc tactic is particularly vulnerable to infiltration, however, as investigatory – and even agent provocateur – activity has taken place regularly among completely nonviolent, non-\"black bloc\" campaigns. In 2003, the Oakland, California Police Department infiltrated a group of demonstrators protesting police brutality and the war in Iraq at the port; subpoenaed private comments by Captain Howard Jordan indicate that his plan was to steer the march away from the police station in order to avoid confrontation. In internal documents, Jordan mentioned this strategy was common in other police departments, including San Francisco and Seattle.\"\n\nTactics of a black bloc primarily include vandalism of private property, rioting, and demonstrating without a permit. Tactics can also include use of defensive measures such as misleading the authorities, assisting in the escape of people arrested by the police (\"un-arrests\" or \"de-arrests\"), administering first aid to persons affected by tear gas, rubber bullets and other riot control measures in areas where protesters are barred from entering, building barricades, resisting the police, and practicing jail solidarity. Property destruction carried out by black blocs tends to have symbolic significance: common targets include banks, institutional buildings, outlets for multinational corporations, gasoline stations, and video-surveillance cameras.\n\nThere may be several blocs within a particular protest, with different aims and tactics. As an ad hoc group, blocs often share no universally common set of principles or beliefs apart from an adherence to—usually—radical left or autonomist values, although some anarchist groups have called for the Saint Paul Principles to be adapted as a framework in which diverse tactics can be deployed. A few radical right-wing groups, like some of the \"autonomous nationalists\" of Europe or the Australian so-called \"National-Anarchists\" have adopted \"black bloc\" tactics and dress.\n\nIn 2000, some months after the Battle of Seattle and the A16 protests against the IMF in Washington DC, the Green Mountain Anarchist Collective (based out of rural Vermont), called for Black Bloc activities to be coordinated on the tactical level, through the temporary election of street officers democratically empowered to make fast tactical decisions, especially concerning movement, while in confrontation with state police forces. This collective also called for Black Bloc actions to entail reserve groups, who could be called into a clash by these elected officers. These proposals were mapped out in the first edition of the pamphlet \"Communique on Tactics\". The pamphlet was controversial within the anarchist community. Some anarchists attacked this approach be being too formal and bordering on Leninist in structure. The Green Mountain Anarchist Collective countered that the direct election of tactical officers was historically in line with the CNT and FAI anarchist militias during the Spanish Civil War. Of those early segments of the anarchist scene that agreed, in principle, with these assertions were the Barricada Collective (Boston, MA) and Columbus Anti-Racist Action (Ohio). The Barricada Collective, in their publication of the same name, published the pamphlet, and also wrote their own essays calling for a more nuanced and more militant use of the Black Bloc in the North American anarchist movement.\n\nIn July 2001 the Green Mountain Anarchist Collective would go on to produce a second edition of the \"Communique on Tactics\" pamphlet in cooperation with Columbus ARA. This second edition further refined the proposal to suggest, among other things, that large Black Blocs, composed of numerous affinity groups, could reach a further level of tactical sophistication by each affinity group further specializing their capabilities (i.e. offense, defense, recon, etc.) and by investing coordinating ability to the elected officer core. This pamphlet, like the first, was debated among anarchists. Aspects of these tactical reforms were field tested with some success at the Festival De La Pueblo 5 May March in Boston in 2002, and the siege of the Lewiston Armory (in opposition to a failed neo-Nazi organizing meeting), Maine, 2003. Both these actions were organized largely by the Northeast Federation of Anarcho-Communist (whom the Green Mountain Anarchist Collective and Barricada were then affiliated).\n\n"}
{"id": "57259369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57259369", "title": "Béchir Sfar", "text": "Béchir Sfar\n\nBéchir Sfar (), (27 February 1856, Tunis - 1 March 1917, Tunis), was a Tunisian nationalist campaigner and politician.\n\nSfar’s father was originally from Mahdia, where he served as caïd. He was also a high-ranking officer in the army of the Bey of Tunis, and later worked in the Tunisian War Ministry. Béchir Sfar himself was born in Tunis. He was in the first graduating class of the Collège Sadiki and then went to Paris to continue his studies at the lycée Saint-Louis. In 1881, when France established a protectorate over Tunis, he interrupted his studies and returned home, and took up a government post in June of that year. In 1882 he became head of the accounting division in the office of the Grand vizier, a post he held until 1891. During these years he became involved in a number of cultural institutions, and founded the Khaldounia association. \n\nFor a number of years he headed the Habous Council which was responsible for land donated by benefactors and held in trust for public benefit. However a series of colonial laws began allowing the French to acquire growing amounts of habous land. and in some instances Tunisians occupying or working the land were displaced. In 1898 Sfar resigned from his position on the Habous Council in protest at these enforced sales to French colonists.\n\nSfar’s career in politics as an active nationalist reformer began on 2 August 1888 when he founded the newspaper \"El Hadhira\" (The Capital), managed by another member of the Khaldounia association, Ali Bouchoucha. In his articles, he called on his fellow Tunisians, some of whom were fascinated by France, to “prevent themselves from falling into a condition of excess, where they would deny their Muslim Arab culture and lose their identity.” He believed that Tunisian national renewal could only be achieved through education, exposing young people to Islamic culture alongside the sciences, economics, history, geography and modern languages.\n\nIn 1907, Sfar co-founded the Young Tunisian movement with Ali Bach Hamba and his brother Mohamed.\n\nLater in 1907 he visited Egypt, where his experiences left a strong impression on him. Like Tunisia, Egypt was a protectorate at the time (of Britain), but the differences with Tunisia were marked: the effects of modern education were everywhere to be seen in public life, while industry, agriculture and infrastructure were in the hands of Egyptians, as were most official posts.\n\nThe Young Turk Revolution of 1908 in the Ottoman Empire left Sfar and his colleagues in this group increasingly isolated from the more traditional religious authorities in Tunisia who had previously welcomed his reform ideas; the orientation of the Young Tunisians was towards the Young Turks, while the ulama supported Abdul Hamid II.\n\nIn his speech before the Resident General in 1906, Sfar declared: \n\n\"The Muslim population appreciates, to the proper extent, the useful improvements and reforms accomplished by the Protectorate government. It is aware, too, of the measures the government is taking to advance charitable works and public assistance. But it’s recognition if these things would be all the stronger if, in relieving poverty, our government would seriously study the means of preventing it. Professional, commercial and agricultural education, made widely available to the native population; effective training and protection for Tunisian labour; revival of local industries by customs controls and other measures; and finally the preservation of native land rights; these, Mr. Resident General, in our humble opinion, are the many proper measures which will reduce or end the economic crisis which is bearing down on Muslim society today.”\n\nThis speech irked the French colonists who replied in virulent terms in their newspapers, \"Le Colon français\" and \"La Tunisie française\". However, in France, liberals supported Sfar in \"Le Temps\", and said it was necessary to take account of the demands raised by the Young Tunisians, who were imbued with the principles of the French Revolution. Despite this support, Sfar was given the post of caïd of Sousse to get him out of Tunis. On his death, the position of caid was taken by Abdeljelil Zaouche.\n\nSfar had a son, Mustapha (born 1892) and a daughter, Fatma. Fatma’s husband was Hassen Guellaty, one of the founders of the Destour party, and their granddaughter Sophia ben Romdhane married Slaheddine Caid Essebsi, brother of Tunisian President Beji Caid Essebsi.\n\n"}
{"id": "6709424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6709424", "title": "Cabinet noir", "text": "Cabinet noir\n\nIn France, the cabinet noir (French for \"black room\") was the office where the letters of suspected persons were opened and read by public officials before being forwarded to their destination. However, this had to be done with some sophistication, as it was considered undesirable that the subjects of the practice know about it, and \"that the black chamber not interrupt the smooth running of the postal service.\" This practice had been in vogue since the establishment of posts, and was frequently used by the ministers of Louis XIII and Louis XIV; but it was not until the reign of Louis XV that a separate office for this purpose was created. This was called the \"cabinet du secret des postes\", or more popularly the \"cabinet noir\". Although declaimed against at the time of the French Revolution, it was used both by the revolutionary leaders and by Napoleon.\n\nBy the 1700s, cryptanalysis was becoming industrialized, with teams of government cryptanalysts working together to crack the most complex monoalphabetic ciphers. Each European power had its own so called black chamber, a nerve centre for deciphering messages and gathering intelligence. The most celebrated, disciplined and efficient was the Geheime Kabinettskanzlei in Vienna. It operated according to a strict timetable, because it was vital that its activities should not interrupt the smooth running of the postal service. Letters which were supposed to be delivered to embassies in Vienna were first routed via the black chamber, arriving at 7 am. Secretaries melted seals, and a team of stenographers worked in parallel to make copies of the letters. Within three hours the letters had been resealed and returned to the central post office to be delivered to their intended destination. As well as supplying the emperors of Austria with vital intelligence, the Viennese black chamber sold the information it harvested to other European powers. In 1774, for example, an arrangement was made with Abbot Georgel, the secretary in the French embassy, who had access to a biweekly package on information for 1,000 ducats.\n\nBlack chambers were also employed by the Dutch Republic.\n\nIn 1911, the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" took the view that the \"cabinet noir\" had disappeared, but that the right to open letters in cases of emergency still appeared to be retained by the French government; and a similar right was occasionally exercised in England under the direction of a Secretary of State. In England, this power was frequently employed during the eighteenth century and was confirmed by the Post Office Act 1837; its most notorious use was, perhaps, the opening of Mazzini's letters in 1844.\n\nSuch postal censorship became common during World War I. Governments claimed that the total war which was waged required such censorship to preserve the civilian population's morale from heart-breaking news up from the front. Whatever the justification, this meant that not a single letter sent from a soldier to his family escaped previous reading by a government official, destroying any notion of privacy or of secrecy of correspondence. Post censorship was retained during the interwar period and afterwards, but without being done on such a massive scale.\n\nThe opening of international mail outgoing and incoming from the United States by US Customs under the Trade Act of 2002 occurs under the border search exception to the Fourth Amendment. This practice has had some criticism (including allegations that it adds to the expense of conducting the Postal Service and can thus affect postage rates), of which the USPS apparently informed Congress before passage of the legislation. However, this criticism may be tempered by the fact that the act prohibits agents searching for contraband from reading mail incidentally included in the package or envelope including it, or allowing others to read it. The Intelligence Authorization Act of 2004 has also been characterized as unconstitutionally permitting the opening of domestic mail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1973405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973405", "title": "Camarilla", "text": "Camarilla\n\nA camarilla is a group of courtiers or favourites who surround a king or ruler. Usually, they do not hold any office or have any official authority at the royal court but influence their ruler behind the scenes. Consequently, they also escape having to bear responsibility for the effects of their advice. The term derives from the Spanish word \"camarilla\" (diminutive of \"cámara\"), meaning \"little chamber\" or private cabinet of the king. It was first used of the circle of cronies around Spanish King Ferdinand VII (reigned 1814-1833). The term involves what is known as cronyism. The term also entered other languages like the German and Greek, and is used in the sense given above.\n\nA similar concept in modern politics is that of a Kitchen Cabinet, which is often composed of unelected advisers bypassing traditional governance practices.\n\nIn particular, two groups are called camarillas: those who surrounded the Emperor Wilhelm II and the President Paul von Hindenburg.\n\n\n\n\nIn the 19th century, Russia's government was frequently described as a \"camarilla\", starting as early as 1860. This usage remained common into the 20th century; for instance, in 1917, commentator Robert Machray wrote of\n\n\n"}
{"id": "379540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379540", "title": "Camisard", "text": "Camisard\n\nCamisards were Huguenots (French Protestants) of the rugged and isolated Cévennes region, and the Vaunage in southern France. They raised an insurrection against the persecutions which followed the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685, which had made Protestantism illegal. The Camisards operated throughout the mainly Protestant Cévennes region which in the eighteenth century also included the Vaunage and the parts of the Camargue around Aigues Mortes. The revolt by the Camisards broke out in 1702, with the worst of the fighting continuing until 1704, then scattered fighting until 1710 and a final peace by 1715. The Edict of Tolerance was not finally signed until 1787.\n\nThe name \"camisard\" in the Occitan language may derive from a type of linen smock or shirt known as a \"camisa\" (chemise) that peasants wear in lieu of any sort of uniform. Alternatively, it might come from the Occitan word \"camus\", meaning paths (chemins). \"Camisada\", in the sense of \"night attack\", is derived from a feature of their tactics.\n\nIn April 1598, Henry IV had signed the Edict of Nantes and the religious wars that had ravaged France ended. Protestants had been given limited civic rights and the liberty to worship according to their convictions. This \"fundamental and irrevocable law\" was maintained by Henry's son, Louis XIII. In October 1685, Henry's grandson, Louis XIV (The Sun king), revoked the Edict of Nantes, issuing his own Edict of Fontainebleau. Louis was determined to impose a single religion on France: that of Rome. As early as 1681 he instituted the dragonnades which were conversions enforced by dragoons, labelled \"missionaries in boots\". They were billeted in the homes of Protestants to help them decide to convert back to the official church or alternatively to emigrate. The Cévennes was a centre of resistance, and the policy did not work.\n\nThe Edict of Fontainebleau removed all rights and protections from the Huguenots. There followed about twenty years of persecutions. Reformed worship and private Bible readings were outlawed. Within weeks of the new edict over 2000 Protestant churches were burned, under the direction of Nicholas Lamoignon de Basville, the royal administrator of Languedoc, and entire villages were massacred and burnt to the ground in a series of stunning atrocities. The pastors and worshippers were captured and later exiled, sent to the galleys, tortured or killed. Seventy-five missionary priests under the command of Abbot François Langlade were sent to the Cévennes. \nSoldiers carrying crosses on their muskets forced the peasants to sign papers to say they were converting, and forced them to attend mass. The peasants continued to attend illicit meeting. Huguenots with a trade, fled to neighbouring countries. The King responded by closing the borders.\n\nThe Protestant peasants of the Vaunage and the Cévennes, led by a number of teachers known as \"prophets\", notably François Vivent and , resisted. Vivent encouraged his followers to arm themselves in case they were set upon by Royalist soldiers. Several leading prophets were tortured and executed, François Vivent in 1692 and Claude Brousson in 1698. Many more were exiled, leaving the abandoned congregations to the leadership of less educated and more mystically-oriented preachers, such as the wool-comber . The Catholic church was likened to the Beast of the Apocalypse and the clandestine prophets claimed to have seen it in the prophetic dreams. Mazel, in a dream, saw black oxen in his garden and heard a voice telling him to chase them away. From 1700 the clandestine prophets and their armed followers were hidden in houses and caves in the mountains. \n\nOpen hostilities began on 24 July 1702, with the assassination at le Pont-de-Montvert of a local embodiment of royal oppression, François Langlade, the Abbé of Chaila. Langlade had recently arrested and tortured a group of seven Protestants accused of attempting to flee France. The band of Camisards were led by Abraham Mazel, who peacefully asked for the release of the prisoners, but when this was refused, they commenced the killing. The abbé was quickly lionized in print by the Catholic State as a martyr of his faith.\n\nThe Camisards worked independently of each other and during the day most merged back into their village communities. They were predominantly agricultural workers or artisans and had no aristocratic leaders. They knew the paths and the sheep tracks intimately. They called themselves the Children of God - they were inspired by religion, not by patronage or politics.\n\nLed by the young Jean Cavalier and Pierre Laporte (Rolland), the Camisards met the ravages of the royal army with irregular warfare methods and withstood superior forces in several pitched battles.\n\nViolence increased as atrocities were committed on both sides: massacres in Catholic villages such as Fraissinet-de-Fourques, Valsauve and Potelières by camisards. Basville, a government administrator with a reputation founded on torture, deported the entire populations of Mialet and Saumane. Then in the autumn of 1703, with the king's consent, the systematic \"Burning of the Cévennes\" destroyed 466 hamlets and exiled their populations.\n\nOther Protestants, like those of Fraissinet-de-Lozère, under the influence of village elites, chose a loyalist attitude and fought the Camisards. They were nevertheless equally victims, losing their homes, during the \"Burning of the Cévennes\".\n\nWhite Camisards, also known as \"Cadets of the Cross\" (\"Cadets de la Croix\", from a small white cross which they wore on their coats), were Catholics from neighbouring communities such as St. Florent, Senechas and Rousson who, on seeing their old enemies on the run, organized into companies to loot and to hunt the rebels down. They committed atrocities, such as killing 52 people at the village of Brenoux, including pregnant women and children.\n\nOther opponents of the Protestants included six hundred miquelet marksmen from Roussillon hired as mercenaries by the King.\n\nIn 1704, Claude Louis Hector de Villars, the royal commander, offered vague concessions to the Protestants and the promise to Cavalier of a command in the royal army. Cavalier's acceptance of the offer broke the revolt, although others, including Laporte, refused to submit unless the Edict of Nantes was restored. Scattered fighting went on until 1710, but the true end of the uprising was the arrival in the Cévennes of the Protestant minister Antoine Court and the reestablishment of a small Protestant community that was largely left in peace, especially after the death of Louis XIV in 1715.\n\n42% of the Camisards were Cévennes peasants, and 58% were rural craftsmen, of whom 75% worked as wool-combers, wool-carders and weavers. All spoke Occitan. There were no noblemen involved, none had been trained in the art of war. There was no concept of a single army, there was no single leader but every region had its permanent organisers and occasional soldiers.\n\nThe leaders of note were:\n\nReligiously, ordained pastors were rounded up, and a series of prophets ministered secretly. Notable among them were:\nThe visions of the prophets inspired the operations of the war, and encouraged the peasants to feel invincible. The peasants marched singing Psalms — which unnerved the opposition.\n\n\n\n\n\nJean Cavalier later went over to the British, who made him Governor of the island of Jersey.\n\nA millenarian group of ex-Camisards under the guidance of Elie Marion emigrated to London in 1706, and were said to have links with the Alumbrados. They were generally treated with scorn and some official repression as the \"French Prophets\". Their example and their writings had some influence later, both on the spiritual outlook of Jean-Jacques Rousseau and on Ann Lee, founder of the Shaker movement.\n\nAfter the main active Camisard groups had been subdued in various ways, the French authorities were keen not to re-ignite the revolt and took a more moderate approach to anti-Protestant repression. Many former Camisards came back to a more peaceful approach and from 1715 onwards helped re-establish a still illegal but now much better organised Protestantism. They were under the leadership of Antoine Court and of the numerous travelling pastors who were permitted to re-enter the country.\n\nIn his book with the title \"La légende des Camisards\", Philippe Joutard, a Professor of History, registered the very lively oral tradition about the Camisards which has prevailed to this day in the Cévennes region. He also observed the \"attractive power\" of this striking period of history where many unrelated episodes have been integrated through the oral tradition. As this oral transmission is mainly done through the families, it often highlights more of their own ancestors who were faithful to their convictions than the heroic leaders of the revolt. In so doing it develops beyond the original religious question to a general attitude of resistance and non-conformity which determines a whole philosophical, political and human culture and way of life. Philippe Joutard also noted that even the minority of Catholics living in this Protestant part of the country tend to reconstruct their history in the same way as their former religious opponents. The footprint of the Camisards in Cévennes is thus particularly deep and lasting.\n\n\nAlthough most of the sources are in French and remain untranslated, there are a number of sources available in English:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11903129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11903129", "title": "Cardinal-nephew", "text": "Cardinal-nephew\n\nA cardinal-nephew (; ; ; ) was a cardinal elevated by a pope who was that cardinal's relative. The practice of creating cardinal-nephews originated in the Middle Ages, and reached its apex during the 16th and 17th centuries. The last cardinal-nephew was named in 1689 and the practice was extinguished in 1692. The word \"nepotism\" originally referred specifically to this practice, when it appeared in the English language about 1669. From the middle of the Avignon Papacy (1309–1377) until Pope Innocent XII's anti-nepotism bull (a papal charter), \"Romanum decet pontificem\" (1692), a pope without a cardinal-nephew was the exception to the rule. Every Renaissance pope who created cardinals appointed a relative to the College of Cardinals, and the nephew was the most common choice, although one of Alexander VI's creations was his own son.\n\nThe institution of the cardinal-nephew evolved over seven centuries, tracking developments in the history of the papacy and the styles of individual Popes. From 1566 until 1692, a cardinal-nephew held the curial office of the Superintendent of the Ecclesiastical State, known as the Cardinal Nephew, and thus the terms are sometimes used interchangeably. The curial office of the Cardinal Nephew as well as the institution of the cardinal-nephew declined as the power of the Cardinal Secretary of State increased and the temporal power of popes decreased in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe list of cardinal-nephews includes at least fifteen, and possibly as many as nineteen popes (Gregory IX, Alexander IV, Adrian V, Gregory XI, Boniface IX, Innocent VII, Eugene IV, Paul II, Alexander VI, Pius III, Julius II, Leo X, Clement VII, Benedict XIII, and Pius VII; perhaps also John XIX and Benedict IX, if they were really promoted cardinals; as well as Innocent III and Benedict XII, if in fact they were related to their elevators); one antipope (John XXIII); and two or three saints (Charles Borromeo, Guarinus of Palestrina, and perhaps Anselm of Lucca, if he was really a cardinal).\n\nThe creation of cardinal-nephews predates the hierarchical preeminence of cardinals within the Roman Catholic Church, which grew out of the 1059 decree of Pope Nicholas II, \"In nomine Domini\", which established cardinal bishops as the sole electors of the Pope, with the consent of cardinal deacons and cardinal priests. The first known cardinal-nephew is Lottario (), seniore, cousin of Pope Benedict VIII (1012–1024), elected circa 1015. Benedict VIII also elevated his brother Giovanni (the future Pope John XIX) and his cousin Teofilatto (the future Pope Benedict IX) as cardinal-deacons. The first known cardinal-nephew after 1059 is Anselm of Lucca, the nephew or brother of Pope Alexander II (1061–1073), although until the end of 12th the majority of the alleged cases of such appointments are dubious, either because the relationship between the Pope and cardinal is not proven, or because the cardinalate of the papal kinsman is uncertain. However, it is beyond doubt that the promotions of papal relatives to the College of Cardinals were common in 13th century.\n\nAccording to historian John Bargrave, \"by the Council of Bazill, Session 21, the number of cardinals was not to be above 24, and not any nephew of the Pope or of any cardinal was to be of that number. (\"Session\" 23.)\"\nPope Clement VI (1342–1352) created more cardinal-nephews than any other pontiff, including six on September 20, 1342, the greatest number of cardinal-nephews elevated at one time. The capitulation of the 1464 papal conclave limited the Pope it elected (Pope Paul II) to appointing one cardinal-nephew, along with other conditions designed to increase the power of the College of Cardinals and reduce the Pope's ability to dilute that power.\n\nThe Fifth Council of the Lateran declared in 1514 that the care of relatives was to be commended, and the creation of cardinal-nephews was often recommended or justified based on the need to care for indigent family members. A cardinal-nephew could usually expect profitable appointments; for example, Alessandro Farnese, cardinal-nephew of Pope Paul III (1534–1549) held 64 benefices simultaneously in addition to the vice-chancellorship.\n\nPope Paul IV (1555–1559), in his old age, was said to have \"fallen almost completely under the cardinal-nephew's influence\"; Paul IV's cardinal-nephew, Carlo Carafa, was accused in August 1558 by a Theatine of seducing a Roman noble woman, Plautila de' Massimi, who had come into possession of an inordinate amount of money and jewelry, but the accusations were dismissed by the pontiff. Saint Charles Borromeo, cardinal-nephew of Pope Pius IV (1559–1565), had ensured the subordination of the \"secretarius intimus\" to the Cardinal Nephew, which came to be sometimes known as the \"secretarius maior\". Pius IV was notorious for nepotism: between 1561 and 1565 he transferred more than 350,000 \"scudi\" to his relatives.\n\nFollowing the Council of Trent (1563), Pope Pius V (1566–1572) drew up the terms for the office of the Superintendent of the Ecclesiastical State, who was to handle the temporal affairs of the Papal States and the foreign relations of the Holy See. After abortively attempting to divide the duties of the Superintendent between four non-familial cardinals, Pius V acceded to the urgings of the College of Cardinals and his Spanish ambassador, and appointed his grandnephew, Michele Bonelli, as Superintendent, demarcating his duties with a papal bull of March 14, 1566. However, Pius V relentlessly avoided delegating any real autonomous power to Bonelli.\n\nThe Cardinal Nephew (also called \"cardinale padrone\" or \"Secretarius Papae et superintendens status ecclesiasticæ\": \"Superintendent of the Ecclesiastical State\", ) was an official legate of the Roman Curia, approximately equivalent to the Cardinal Secretary of State, which absorbed its functions after the office of Cardinal Nephew was abolished in 1692. The office has been likened by historians to a \"prime minister\", \"alter ego\", or \"vice-pope\". The Cardinal Nephew was generally among a Pope's first cardinal creations, and his \"creature\" was traditionally accompanied by a salute from the guns of Castel Sant'Angelo.\n\nFollowing the Avignon Papacy, the Cardinal Nephew was responsible for the spiritual and temporal governance of the Comtat Venaissin, where the Avignon Popes had resided; in 1475, Pope Sixtus IV raised the Diocese of Avignon to the rank of an archbishopric, to the benefit of his nephew Giuliano della Rovere.\n\nThe terms of the office of Cardinal Nephew were established by a papal brief developed and refined by Pius V's successors to Paul V (1605–1621). The Cardinal Nephew was also the correspondence liaison for all papal nuncios and gubernatorial legates, and the prefect for two congregations: the Consulta and the Congregazione del Buon Governo. The Cardinal Nephew was also the captain-general of the papal army and a \"channel through which flowed benefices one way and gold the other\".\n\nHowever, these formal functions only came into force during the pontificates of unusually weak Popes; most Cardinal Nephews were the \"de facto\" rubber stamp of the pontiff himself.\n\nAlthough Pope Leo XI (1605) died before he was able to elevate his nephew, Roberto Ubaldini, Ubaldini was elevated by Leo XI's successor, Pope Paul V in 1615.\n\nSome historians consider Scipione Borghese, cardinal-nephew to Pope Paul V, to be the \"prototypical representative\" of a cardinal-nephew, unlike those before him, created to \"provide for and oversee the permanent social and economic ascent of the reigning papal family into the ranks of the high Roman aristocracy\". For example, in 1616, 24 of the 30 abbeys belonging to Borghese were rented out, a practice the Council of Trent had attempted to eliminate. A thorough financial analysis of Borghese's cardinalate by Reinhard Volcker (based on a series of extant account books) examines the strategies Borghese used to build up wealth during his uncle's pontificate and non-ecclesiastical assets before his uncle's death, which Volcker considers to be exemplary of Baroque papal families. It is estimated that Paul V Borghese had transferred to his family approximately 4% of the total income of the Holy See during his pontificate. Borghese's personal revenues in 1610 were 153,000 \"scudi\" compared to the mere 4,900 \"scudi\" that constituted his entire family's income in 1592.\n\nPope Gregory XIV (1590–1591) began the practice of creating cardinal-nephews whose formal appointment coincided \"de facto\" with their nomination, and was thus separate from the ordinal process for creating cardinals, and, when he fell ill, he authorized his cardinal-nephew, Paolo Emilio Sfondrato, to use the \"Fiat ut petitur\", a power which was later diminished at the urging of the College. Paul V issued a \"motu proprio\" on April 30, 1618, formally bestowing on his cardinal-nephew the same authority Pope Clement VIII had given to Pietro Aldobrandini, beginning what historian Laurain-Portemer calls \"l'age classique'\" of nepotism.\n\nPope Gregory XV's (1621–1623) cardinal-nephew, Ludovico Ludovisi, the first cardinal-nephew known as \"il cardinale padrone\" (\"the Cardinal boss\") accumulated a vast array of benefices: the bishopric of Bologna, 23 abbeys, the directorship of the Apostolic Signatura, as well as the offices of the vice-chancellor and high-chamberlain, and was able to have most of them redistributed among 17 of his kinsmen upon his death. These benefices and offices netted Ludovisi more than 200,000 scudi annually, and he is considered to have exercised \"more unlimited authority\" than any previous cardinal-nephew. Notably, cardinal-nephews were allowed to create \"facultas testandi\" to will the rewards of their benefices to secular family members. Gregory XV's successor, Urban VIII (1623–1644) convened two special committees of theologians, both of whom endorsed this practice.\n\nNot all Cardinal Nephews were cardinal-nephews in the strictest sense. In fact, papal historian Valérie Pirie considers not having a nephew a \"tremendous asset for a would-be Pope\" as it left the position open for an ally cardinal. For example, Pope Clement X gave the office to Cardinal Paoluzzi-Altieri, whose nephew had recently married Laura Caterina Altieri, the sole heiress of Clement X's family. Many historians consider Olimpia Maidalchini, the sister-in-law of Pope Innocent X (1644–1655), to have been a \"de facto\" Cardinal Nephew; the position was formally held by her son, Camillo Pamphili, then her nephew, Francesco Maidalchini (after Pamphili renounced his cardinalate in order to wed), and (after Francesco proved incompetent) Camillo Astalli, her cousin.\n\nPopes often had only a few choices for the creation of a Cardinal Nephew. According to papal historian Frederic Baumgartner, Pope Sixtus V's (1585–1590) reign \"started badly\" because Alessandro Peretti di Montalto was \"his only nephew eligible for the office, but he could hardly serve the Pope as a trustworthy confidant\", causing several cardinals to refuse to attend his investiture. Another papal historian Ludwig von Pastor notes that \"the misfortune of Pope Pamphilj was that the only person in his family who would have had the qualities necessary to fill such a position was a woman\".\n\nPope Innocent XI (1676–1689) despised the practice and only accepted his election as Pope after the College of Cardinals consented to his plans for reform, which included a ban on nepotism. However, Innocent XI backed down after thrice failing to achieve the support of the majority of his cardinals for a bull banning nepotism, which had been tediously composed between 1677 and 1686. Innocent XI refused entreaties from within the papal court to bring his only nephew, Livio Odescalchi, the prince of Sirmio, to Rome, although he did elevate Carlo Stefano Anastasio Ciceri, a distant relative, cardinal on September 2, 1686. Innocent XI's successor, Pope Alexander VIII (1689–1691), was the last Pope to create a Cardinal Nephew. Alexander VIII also undid another reform of Innocent XI by restoring the revenues of the former Chancery to the Vice-Chancellor, who was, at the time, his cardinal-nephew, Pietro Ottoboni. Edith Standen, a consultant to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, calls Ottoboni the \"last and certainly not least magnificent example\" of the \"splendor of an extinct species, the Cardinal-Nephew\".\n\nUntil 1692 (and sometimes thereafter), the cardinal-nephew (or a lay nephew) would be the chief archivist of the Pope, usually removing the archives to a family archive upon the death of the pontiff. In particular, the archival collections of the Barberini, Farnese, Chigi, and Borghese families contain important papal documents.\n\nPope Innocent XII (1691–1700) issued a papal bull on June 22, 1692, \"Romanum decet pontificem\", banning the office of Cardinal Nephew, limiting his successors to elevating only one cardinal relative, eliminating various \"sinecures\" traditionally reserved for cardinal-nephews, and capping the stipend or endowment the nephew of a Pope could receive to 12,000 scudi. \"Romanum decet pontificem\" was later incorporated into the Code of Canon Law of 1917 in canons 240, 2; 1414, 4; and 1432, 1. In 1694, Innocent XII's series of reforms was concluded with an expensive campaign to eliminate the \"venality\" of offices while reimbursing their current holders. These reforms are viewed by some scholars as a delayed reaction to the financial crisis created by the nepotism of Pope Urban VIII (1623–1644).\n\nHowever, even following \"Romanum decet pontificem\", only three of the eight Popes of the 18th century failed to make a nephew or brother cardinal. The College of Cardinals apparently preferred rule by nephews than by favorites, which they perceived as the alternative; for example, the College urged Pope Benedict XIII (1724–1730) to appoint a cardinal-nephew, who they hoped would replace Benedict XIII's notorious lieutenant Niccolò Coscia. Pope Gregory XIII (1572–1585) also had to be urged by key figures in the College to appoint his cardinal-nephew: Filippo Boncompagni.\n\nThe cardinal-nephews of the 18th century declined in influence as the power of the Cardinal Secretary of State increased. The church of Pope Benedict XIII (1724–1730) is described by historian Eamon Duffy as \"all the evils of nepotism without the nephew\".\nNeri Maria Corsini, cardinal-nephew of Pope Clement XII (1730–1740) was by far the most powerful cardinal-nephew of the 18th century, on account of his uncle's advanced age and blindness. However, Clement XII's successor, Pope Benedict XIV (1740–1758) was described by Hugh Walpole as \"a priest without indolence or interest, a prince without favorites, a Pope without nephews\".\n\nRomualdo Braschi-Onesti, cardinal-nephew of Pius VI (1775–1799), was the penultimate cardinal-nephew. Despite Pius VI's lineage to a noble Cesena family, his only sister had married a man from the poor Onesti family. Therefore, he commissioned a genealogist to discover (and inflate) some trace of nobility in the Onesti lineage, an endeavor which yielded only a circuitous connection to Saint Romualdo.\n\nAfter the turbulent 1800 papal conclave, Pope Pius VII (1800–1823) shunned the institution of the cardinal-nephew and instead relied on his Cardinal Secretary of State, Ercole Consalvi. During the 19th century, the only nephew of a Pope created cardinal was Gabriele della Genga Sermattei, nephew of Pope Leo XII, created cardinal by Pope Gregory XVI on February 1, 1836. Although the institutionalization of nepotism disappeared in the 18th century, \"pietas\" (duty to family) remained a theme of papal administration into the 20th century, although rarely with the overt intervention of a papal uncle. Following the example of Pius VI, Popes Leo XIII (who elevated his brother, Giuseppe Pecci, cardinal on May 12, 1879) and Pius XII (1939–1958) weakened the formal curial bureaucracy in favor of a parallel government, in which family members often figured prominently. The loss of temporal power over the Papal States (\"de facto\" in 1870 with the \"Roman Question\" and \"de jure\" in 1929 with the Lateran Treaty) also eliminated the structural conditions which had figured prominently in the family politics of earlier Popes.\n\nEven into the 18th century, the cardinal-nephew was a natural power broker at the conclave following his uncle's death, as a figure whom cardinals desirous of continuing the \"status quo\" could rally around. In particular, the cardinal-nephew often commanded the loyalty of his uncle's \"creatures\", whom he generally had a role in naming. For example, Alessandro Peretti di Montalto led his uncle's creatures in the papal conclave of 1590 despite being only 21. According to conclave historian Frederic Baumgartner, \"the purpose of such appointments was ensuring that the Pope's family would have power and influence for a much longer time than the brief period that a Pope could expect to reign\". A notable exception is Pope Gregory XV (1621–1623) who declined on his death bed the request of Ludovico Ludovisi to name more relatives to the College, saying he had \"enough to account to God for the unworthy ones he had appointed\".\n\nHowever, cardinal-nephews were not guaranteed the leadership of their uncle's \"creatures\"; for example, in the papal conclave, 1621, Scipione Borghese could count only twenty-nine votes (a fraction of his uncle's fifty-six cardinals), Pietro Aldobrandini controlled only nine (of his uncle's thirteen remaining cardinals), and Montalto only five of his uncle's remaining cardinals. In fact, international rivalries sometimes overwhelmed family loyalties when cardinal-nephews were relatively \"poorly organized\". As Pope Innocent X (1644–1655) died with the office of Cardinal Nephew vacant his faction proved divided and leaderless in the conclave, although his sister-in-law Olimpia Maidalchini was invited to address the cardinals from within the enclosure, the only woman ever so honored.\n\n\"Instruzione al cardinal Padrone circa il modo come si deve procurare una fazione di cardinali con tutti i requisiti che deve avere per lo stabilimento della sua grandezza\" (\"Instructions to the chief cardinal on how to create a faction of cardinals with all the requisites for the establishment of his grandeur\"), discovered in the archive of the Santa Maria de Monserrato offers advice to cardinal-nephews for consolidating power within the College of Cardinals. Another text, the \"Ricordi dati da Gregorio XV al cardinale Lodovisio suo nipote\" (\"Memoir addressed by Gregory XV to his Nephew Cardinal Lodovisio\") offers advice for how to rise within the Curia.\n\nAn analysis of the five papal conclaves between 1605 and 1644 shows that cardinal-nephews were generally unsuccessful in electing their chosen candidates, although the victor was usually a cardinal created by the deceased Pope. Crown-cardinals in particular, when they deigned to travel to Rome for the conclave, tended to oppose the election of cardinal-nephews, although they equally opposed the election of crown-cardinals of other monarchs. In general, a cardinal-nephew had to outlive one or more successors of his uncle to become regarded as \"papabile\", both because of their youth and their tendency to be blamed for any unpopular papal policies of their uncles.\n\nA papal election could bring a dramatic change of fortune for a cardinal-nephew, often bringing the former favorites into conflict with the new Pope. For example, Prospero Colonna and Francisco de Borja were excommunicated, and Carlo Carafa was executed. The papal conclave, May 1605, is one example of a conclave where a candidate (Antonmaria Sauli) was defeated because enough other cardinals were convinced of the need for \"a Pope willing to punish the cardinal-nephews for robbing the papacy\". A cardinal-nephew was also a potential threat to any future pontiff; for example, Ludovisi came to lead the opposition against Pope Urban VIII (1623–1644), even talking about calling a council against the Pope (which never occurred as Ludovisi died in 1632) because \"no one else had the standing to confront Urban's titanic temper\".\n\nNepotism is a common feature in the history of governance, particularly in cultures where identity and loyalty are determined more at the level of the family than that of the nation-state. The use of nephews, rather than direct descendants, is a product of the tradition of clerical celibacy within the Catholic Church, although hereditary descent from uncles to nephews is also seen in the patriarchate of the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\nThe creation of relatives and known-allies as cardinals was only one way in which medieval and Renaissance Popes attempted to dilute the power of the College of Cardinals as an \"ecclesiastical rival\" and perpetuate their influence within the church after their death. The institution of the cardinal-nephew had the effect both of enriching the Pope's family with desirable benefices and of modernizing the administration of the papacy, by allowing the pontiff to rule through a proxy which was more easily deemed fallible when necessary and provided a formal distance between the person of the pontiff and the everydayness of pontifical affairs.\n\nGregorio Leti's \"Papal Nepotism, or the True Relation of the Reasons Which Impel the Popes to make their Nephews Powerful\" (1667) is one example of contemporary criticism of the institution of the cardinal-nephew; Leti holds the rare distinction of having \"all\" of his publications on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (\"List of Prohibited Books\"). The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" of 1913 defended the institution of the cardinal-nephew as a necessary countermeasure to the intrigue of the old Church. According to Francis A. Burkle-Young, 15th century Popes in particular found it necessary to elevate their relatives to the College of Cardinals due to their distrust of the crown-cardinals, Roman baronial families, and Italian princely families who also populated the college.\nAccording to Thomas Adolphus Trollope, a famed papal historian, \"the evil wrought by them in and to the church has been well nigh fatal to it; and it continued to increase until increasing danger warned the Pontiffs to abstain. The worst cardinals, providing, of course, the material for the worst Popes, have been for the most part cardinal nephews, the temptation to the creation of such having been rendered too great to be resisted by the exorbitant greatness of the power, dignity, and wealth attributed to the members of the Sacred College. The value of these great \"prizes\" was so enormous, that the \"hat\" became an object of ambition to princes, and it was the primary object with a long series of Popes to bestow it on their kinsmen.\"\n\nThe curial office of Cardinal Secretary of State in many ways evolved from the roles formerly filled by cardinal-nephews. From 1644 to 1692, the power of the Cardinal Secretary of State was essentially inversely proportional to that of the Cardinal Nephew, to whom the Secretariat was subordinate. During some pontificates, for example that of Pope Pius V (1566–1572) and his nephew Michele Bonelli, the cardinal-nephew and secretary of state were one and the same.\n\nAccording to Baumgartner, \"the rise of a centralized administration with professional bureaucrats with careers in the papal service\" proved more effective than nepotism for future Popes and thus \"greatly reduced the need for papal nephews\". The rise of the Cardinal Secretary of State was the \"most obvious element of this new approach\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "856252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856252", "title": "Chargé d'affaires", "text": "Chargé d'affaires\n\nA chargé d'affaires (), often shortened to chargé (French) and sometimes to charge-D (abbreviated in colloquial English), is a diplomat who heads an embassy in the absence of the ambassador. The term is French for \"charged with (in charge of) matters\". A female diplomat may be designated a chargée d'affaires, following French declension.\n\nA \"chargé\" enjoys the same privileges and immunities as a regular ambassador. However, \"chargés d'affaires\" are outranked by ambassadors and have lower precedence at formal diplomatic events. In most cases, a diplomat would only serve as a \"chargé d'affaires\" on a temporary basis in the absence of the ambassador. In unusual situations, a \"chargé d'affaires\" may be appointed for an indefinite period, in cases where disputes between the two countries make it impossible or undesirable to send agents of a higher diplomatic rank.\n\n\"Chargés d'affaires\" \"ad interim\" (\"a.i.\") are those who temporarily head a diplomatic mission in the absence of the accredited head of that mission. It is usual to appoint a counsellor or secretary of delegation to be \"chargé d'affaires\" \"ad interim\", and he is presented to the foreign minister of the receiving state by the former head of mission before he leaves his post. \"Chargés d'affaires\" \"ad interim\" are not themselves deemed to be formally accredited, as they do not possess diplomatic credentials.\n\n\"Chargés d'affaires\" \"en pied\" (\"e.p.\") are appointed to be permanent heads of mission, in cases where the two countries lack ambassadorial-level relations. They are appointed by letters of credence from the foreign minister of the sending state to the foreign minister of the receiving state. Chargés d'affaires \"en pied\" have precedence over chargés d'affaires \"ad interim\", but are outranked by ambassadors. They are sometimes referred to as chargés d'affaires \"ad hoc\" or \"en titre\".\n\nIn certain cases, a \"chargé d'affaires\" may be appointed for long periods, such as when a mission is headed by a non-resident ambassador who is accredited to multiple countries. In addition, a mission may be downgraded from an ambassadorial to a \"chargé d'affaires\" level to show displeasure, yet avoid taking the extremely serious step of breaking diplomatic relations. For example, Saudi Arabia and Thailand have not exchanged ambassadors since 1989, due to the still-unresolved Blue Diamond Affair.\n\nWhen diplomatic recognition is extended to a new government, a \"chargé\" will be sent to immediately establish diplomatic representation. However, if a timely exchange of ambassadors does not take place, this may result in a prolonged period of \"chargé\"-level relations. For example, the United Kingdom recognized the People's Republic of China in 1950 and posted a \"chargé d'affaires\" in the new capital of Beijing. However, China was unwilling to exchange ambassadors until the United Kingdom withdrew its consulate from Taipei. Sino-British relations were not upgraded to the ambassadorial level until 1972.\n\nSince a \"chargé d'affaires\" presents his or her credentials to the foreign minister rather than the head of state, the appointment of a \"chargé\" may avoid a politically sensitive meeting that would imply approval or recognition of that head of state or government. Similarly, the receiving country may decline to receive an ambassador, but still maintain diplomatic relations by accepting a \"chargé\". For example, the Republic of Cyprus appoints a number of \"chargés d'affaires\" \"en pied\" to its embassies abroad.\n\nIn modern use, \"chargés d'affaires\" do not essentially differ from ambassadors, envoys or ministers resident. They represent their nation, and apart from rank and precedence, enjoy the same privileges and immunities as other diplomatic agents.\n\nHowever, there have been rare historical circumstances in which a diplomatic post, formally ranking as \"chargé d'affaires\", was in fact employed in a more significant colonial role, as commonly held by a resident. Thus, in Annam-Tonkin (most of present Vietnam), the first French \"chargé d'affaires\" at Huế, the local ruler's capital, since 1875; one of them (three terms) was appointed the first resident-general on 11 June 1884, as they stopped being tributary to the Chinese Empire, less than a year after the 25 August 1883 French protectorates over Annam and Tonkin (central and northern regions).\n\nIn French usage, \"chargé d'affaires\" may be used outside diplomacy either as a specific position, or in general terms to indicate an individual with some more or less temporary responsibility for a specific area of activity.\n\n\"Chargé d'affaires\" generally follows French usage: \"chargé d'affaires\" is singular, \"chargés d'affaires\" for plural. The \"d'affaires\" is always in the plural form, and should be lowercase even if \"Chargé\" is capitalized. Following the French declension, \"chargée d'affaires\" (with the feminine ending) may be seen where the \"chargé\" is female.\n\nFor temporary \"chargés\", \"ad interim\" may or may not be added depending on the context, but is always lower case; it may be italicized or shortened to simply a.i.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8744571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8744571", "title": "Crow Rate", "text": "Crow Rate\n\nThe Crow Rate, or Crowsnest Freight Rate, was a rail transportation subsidy benefiting farmers on the Canadian Prairies and manufacturers in Central Canada by rate requirements imposed on the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) by the Canadian government in exchange for financing and other benefits.\n\nIn the late 19th century, mineral strikes in southeastern BC near Nelson, Ainsworth, Rossland, Kaslo, Kimberley and Moyie inspired American rail interests to push lines northward, to rail out ore and to provide machinery and supplies needed for the development of local smelters. Both the Canadian government and the CPR wanted an all-Canadian rail line to forestall this American access and to reassert Canadian sovereignty in the area. A rail line was planned from Lethbridge, Alberta to Kootenay Landing near Nelson, British Columbia through the Crowsnest Pass, which would also enable the development of coal deposits in the Pass and the Elk River valley, important both for mineral smelting operations and for the CPR's conversion of locomotives from wood to coal.\n\nThe CPR needed government funding and concessions for the construction of this rail line, and the negotiated agreement between the CPR and the Canadian government was contained in the \"Crowsnest Pass Agreement\" dated September 6, 1897. Amongst other things, the CPR agreed to provide reduced rail rates for farmers' grain shipped east to the Great Lakes and for farm machinery shipped west from central Canada \"forever\".\n\nThe Crow Rate was suspended by the CPR during World War One and reinstated in 1922.\n\nAlthough popular with farmers exporting grains, these reduced rates were not cost-effective for the railway and provided central Canadian manufacturers and grain ports with an unfair advantage. By the early 1980s, the government attempted to resolve the problems between the competing interests by altering the agreement. The Western Grain Transportation Act of 1983 allowed shipping rates to increase, but never more than 10% of the world price for grain. In addition, further cash payments were made by the government to the CPR.\n\nWith the election of the Liberal government of Jean Chrétien in 1993, the new government took steps to eliminate the subsidies altogether. This was implemented in 1995 through the Western Grain Transition Payment Program, which provided one-time payments to farmers to assist them in making the transition away from subsidized shipping.\n\n"}
{"id": "149034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149034", "title": "Department for Protection and Security", "text": "Department for Protection and Security\n\nDepartment for Protection and Security (DPS) or Département Protection et Sécurité is the \"security\" branch of the National Rally (RN) political party of France, which depends directly from the RN's president and is now led by Eric Staelens. It is currently headed by Eric Staelens and contains 1,500 men.\n\nThe mission of the DPS is providing physical protection of the leaders of National Rally and the monitoring of events or meetings of the party. One feature of DPS compared to other political parties' security services is its quasi-military character, both in the origin of many of its members (former military, police or security guards) and in its equipment consisting of helmets and uniforms similar to those worn by the mobile brigades of law enforcement. There is a fairly strong tradition of red berets (Paratroops) and Green Berets (Foreign Legion).\n\nIn 1998, a Parliamentary Commission, led by Socialist MP Bernard Grasset (Green MP Noël Mamère and conservative MP Patrick Devedjian were also part of it), was created to investigate its acts, after several violent incidents during demonstrations and other occasions. The report was published on 3 June 1999, and pinpointed several cases of DPS member checking identity card of demonstrators instead of the police. It also pinpointed links with the \"Groupe Union Défense\" (GUD), former OAS members, mercenaries and private military contractors. The Parliamentary commission declared that the DPS should have been dissolved end of 1996, after the Montceau-les-Mines affair on 25 October 1996, when a DPS unit acted like an ordinary police order force, alike to the \"C.R.S.\" anti-riot units. After the creation of the \"Mouvement National Républicain\" (MNR) by Bruno Mégret, an offshoot from the RN, the DPS itself also split into two organizations, the DPS on one side and the DPA (\"Département Protection Assistance\") on the other side.\n\nA former member of the DPS has given a long interview to daily \"Libération\". Using the pseudonym \"Dominique\", he explained that the DPS has special \"unofficial\" intervention squads made up of former paratroopers and Foreign Legionnaires, veterans of French interventions in Chad, Lebanon, and the Central African Republic. Some members of the DPS were present in covert operations in Zaire (1997 and 2001), Madagascar (in 2002, Didier Ratsiraka called for some mercenaries to resolve the political crisis ), Ivory Coast (2001–2003). According to the Voltaire network, the DPS had been created with the help of Jacques Foccart and François de Grossouvre (leader of the French branch of Gladio, NATO's secret armies) after the dissolving of the \"Service d'Action Civique\" (SAC).\n\nDPS is equipped with helmets and shields, gas masks, tear gas launchers, guns that fire rubber bullets, bulletproof vests, clubs, and gloves with lead weights. DPS is alleged to have compiled computerized lists of journalists and anti-fascist activists with their names, addresses, and photos. They engage in punitive actions against their opponents but have, Dominique said, excellent relations with the police, including the police commissioners. They are organized in terms of military ranks such as colonel and captain. According to Liberation, the DPS now has 3,000 members. Since 1993, the group has been commanded by Bernard Courcelle, who claims, \"We only defend ourselves. We never attack the meetings of other groups.\" According to \"Reporters Sans Frontières\", the DPS has records on journalists who follow the National Rally's activities and, on several occasions, was responsible for the beating up of reporters. After Bruno Mégret's split, Bernard Courcelle followed him with 1,700 men from the DPS, and Jean-Marie Le Pen named Marc Bellier to fill his place, and then Jean-Pierre Chabrut\n\nIn 1980, Bernard Courcelle was a member, along with Bruno Gollnisch, of the \"Direction de la Protection de la Sécurité et de la Défense\" (DPSD), an official Ministry of Defence organization in charge of recruiting mercenaries and informing on weapons traffic. The DPSD allegedly has or had ties, between the two wars, with the terrorist group \"La Cagoule\". In 1983, Bernard Courcelle allegedly created a mercenary firm with his brother. The next year, he became the former security director of the French armaments manufacturer, Luchaire. In 1989, he was in charge of security for the Musée d'Orsay, which responsibility was assumed by none other than Anne Pingeot, president François Mitterrand's secret mistress. In 1993, Courcelle became the leader of the DPS, before becoming in 1999 the leader of Republic of the Congo's president Denis Sassou-Nguesso's personal guard. He then takes charge of the security of the oil company Elf's infrastructures in Pointe-Noire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43221", "title": "E number", "text": "E number\n\nE numbers are codes for substances that are permitted to be used as food additives for use within the European Union and EFTA. The \"E\" stands for \"Europe\". Commonly found on food labels, their safety assessment and approval are the responsibility of the European Food Safety Authority.\n\nHaving a single unified list for food additives was first agreed upon in 1962 with food colouring. In 1964, the directives for preservatives were added, 1970 for antioxidants and 1974 for the emulsifiers, stabilisers, thickeners and gelling agents.\n\nThe numbering scheme follows that of the International Numbering System (INS) as determined by the \"Codex Alimentarius\" committee, though only a subset of the INS additives are approved for use in the European Union as food additives. Outside the European continent plus Russia, E numbers are also encountered on food labelling in other jurisdictions, including the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, and Israel. They are increasingly, though still rarely, found on North American packaging, especially on imported European products.\n\nIn some European countries, \"E number\" is sometimes used informally as a pejorative term for artificial food additives, and products may promote themselves as \"free of E numbers\". This is incorrect, because many components of natural foods have assigned E numbers (and the number is a synonym for the chemical component), e.g. vitamin C (E300) and lycopene (E160d), found in carrots.\n\nNB: Not all examples of a class fall into the given numeric range. Moreover, many chemicals, particularly in the E400–499 range, have a variety of purposes.\n\nThe list shows all components that have or had an E-number assigned. \"Not all additives listed are still allowed in the EU\", but are listed as they used to have an E-number. For an overview of currently allowed additives see information provided by the Food Standards Agency of the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43037331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43037331", "title": "FSFO", "text": "FSFO\n\nFSFO (Fo Sostyn, Fo Ordaag (\"under England, under the thumb\"), sometimes interpreted as \"Financial Sector (or Services) Fuck Off\") was a Manx nationalist group on the Isle of Man in the 1970s and 1980s, known for graffiti campaigns and arson attacks against outsiders and tax haven seekers of the financial sector on the island.\n\nAmong the later notable individuals involved in FSFO was Phil Gawne, who later become Minister of Agriculture. Gawne was jailed for 16 months in the 1970s for attacks on homes being built for English arrivals to the island.\n\nIn 1991, FSFO issued a press release through the Manx nationalist paper \"Yn Pabyr Seyr\":\n\n\"The 31st of March saw the first anniversary of the F.S.F.O. campaigners' release from prison custody and although the destruction of the Manks way of life has apparently slowed down this past year, it is still continuing at an unacceptable and unnecessary rate. Since the boom began over three years ago, the Government has done nothing to protect the unique Manks lifestyle from the effects of the massive influx of new residents, and it seems that the direct message of F.S.F.O. is, unfortunately, far from being history. ... Complacency and \"traa dy liooar\" continue to offer the Government guarantees that it is safe for it to sell off whatever it likes and that the Manks people may be indefinitely walked over. ... In short, the aim of the campaign is to put economic power back in the hands of the Manks people, where it belongs. The time has now come to say \"Enough is Enough\" to the men of greed and close the door on finance sector led development.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35876848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35876848", "title": "Fascist mysticism", "text": "Fascist mysticism\n\nFascist mysticism (Italian: \"Mistica fascista\") was a current of political and religious thought in Fascist Italy, based on Fideism, a belief that faith existed without reason, and that Fascism should be based on a mythology and spiritual mysticism. A School of Fascist Mysticism was founded in Milan on April 10, 1930 and active until 1943, and its main objective was the training of future Fascist leaders, indoctrinated in the study of various Fascist intellectuals who tried to abandon the purely political to create a spiritual understanding of Fascism. Fascist mysticism in Italy developed through the work of Niccolò Giani with the decisive support of Arnaldo Mussolini.\n\nNiccolò Giani took the definition of mysticism from the writing of French philosopher Louis Rougier: \n\nIn line with Rougier, Giani stressed in his manifesto for the School of Fascist Mysticism,\" \"that fascism has its 'mystical' aspect, as it postulates a complex of moral, social and political, categorical and dogmatic beliefs, accepted and not questioned by the masses and minorities ... [A Fascist] puts his belief in the infallible Duce Benito Mussolini, the fascist and creator of civilization; [a Fascist] denies that anything outside of the Duce has spiritual or putative antecedents.\n\nThe establishment of the School was made to allow his followers to devote themselves fully to the worship of Mussolini, meditating on the writings and speeches of Mussolini, and living according to his words, in a spirit of absolute loyalty and unquestioningly, as specified in the article \"Fascist mysticism\" in the Political Dictionary edited by the National Fascist Party in 1940: \n\nThe use of the term \"mysticism\" provoked hostility from the Roman Catholic Church, which used the term in the sense of being strictly limited to the spiritual sphere, without any political influence. But in Giani's conception of mysticism, he claimed it was in the political sphere without fear of overlap between the two worlds. Giani stated: \"Neither the Church should make policy, nor the State must make religion. Fascist Catholics, therefore, Catholics, or fascists, whichever is more like it, but Fascists: \"let us remember\".\" The Bishop Onofrio Buonocore stated that he viewed Fascist mysticism as \"the testimony of an Italy no longer divided, but renewed and reconciled under the papal insignia and littoriali\". In February 1937, the Cardinal of Milan, Ildefonso Schuster, gave a speech at the School of Fascist Mysticism. Many years of friction took place between the Catholic Church and the Fascist Regime, erupting into open conflict in 1931, after Mussolini's withdrawal of several concessions his regime made to the Catholic Church in a 1929 Concordat.\n\nWhile considering the Fascist mysticism a \"trend of thought\" there are only contributions made by Italian thinkers, although they quoted Rougier, Albert Sorel and Henri Bergson, cited by Nino Tripodi even if they were important in predetermining a state of mind in young mystics rather than provide guidance. According to the philosopher Enzo Paci, Fascist mysticism was influenced by Nietzsche and Sorel, as was much of the culture of the period:\nThe principles of mystical fascism were largely formulated by Niccolo Giani and a small group of young Fascists bound to the teachers at the School of Fascist Mysticism (including Guido Pallotta and Berto Ricci), some high-ranking (including Ferdinand Mezzasoma, Giuseppe Bottai), by writers and journalists of proven Fascist faith (Telesio Interlandi, Virginio Gayda) and Benito Mussolini. It ultimately traced the cultural lines that were followed in the development of \"Fascist\" disciplines and guidelines pertaining to the policies of the School of Fascist Mysticism. Around this core of \"hard\" high-profile intellectuals revolved others, including Paolo Orano, Luigi Stefanini (who was an official consultant to the School of Fascist Mysticism) and Julius Evola, and Giovanni Gentile and his student and friend Armando Carlini, but Carlini seems to have had a rather marginal role in Fascist \"mysticism\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24471413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24471413", "title": "First Filat Cabinet", "text": "First Filat Cabinet\n\nThe First Filat Cabinet was the Cabinet of Moldova between September 25, 2009 and January 14, 2011. It was a caretaker cabinet from the election of November 28, 2010, until it was succeeded by the Second Filat Cabinet on January 14, 2011.\n\nThe cabinet was formed by the Alliance for European Integration, consisting of the Liberal Democratic Party, the Democratic Party and the Liberal Party who held 53 out of 101 seats in Parliament of Moldova. The government won a vote of confidence on September 25, 2009. \n\nThe Cabinet consisted of the Prime Minister of Moldova Vlad Filat (leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Moldova; PLDM), four Deputy Prime Ministers, each representing one of the parties of the coalition, 15 ministers, and two \"ex officio\" members. \n\nThe Government had 16 Ministries: two Deputy Prime Ministers are also Ministers, while the Minister of State does not lead a Ministry. Two ministries from the previous Cabinet of Zinaida Greceanîi (Reintegration and Local Public Administration) were dissolved.\n\n\n\nThe first cabinet meeting was held on September 25, 2009 at 22:00. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11194", "title": "Francis Fukuyama", "text": "Francis Fukuyama\n\nYoshihiro Francis Fukuyama (; born October 27, 1952) is an American political scientist, political economist, and author. Fukuyama is known for his book \"The End of History and the Last Man\" (1992), which argued that the worldwide spread of liberal democracies and free market capitalism of the West and its lifestyle may signal the end point of humanity's sociocultural evolution and become the final form of human government. However, his subsequent book \"Trust: Social Virtues and Creation of Prosperity\" (1995) modified his earlier position to acknowledge that culture cannot be cleanly separated from economics. Fukuyama is also associated with the rise of the neoconservative movement, from which he has since distanced himself.\n\nFukuyama has been a senior fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies since July 2010 and a Mosbacher Director of the Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law at Stanford University. Before that, he served as a professor and director of the International Development program at the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University. Previously, he was Omer L. and Nancy Hirst Professor of Public Policy at the School of Public Policy at George Mason University.\n\nHe is a council member of the International Forum for Democratic Studies founded by the National Endowment for Democracy and was a member of the Political Science Department of the RAND Corporation.\n\nFrancis Fukuyama was born in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago. His paternal grandfather fled the Russo-Japanese War in 1905 and started a shop on the west coast before being interned in the Second World War. His father, Yoshio Fukuyama, a second-generation Japanese American, was trained as a minister in the Congregational Church, received a doctorate in sociology from the University of Chicago, and taught religious studies. His mother, Toshiko Kawata Fukuyama, was born in Kyoto, Japan, and was the daughter of Shiro Kawata, founder of the Economics Department of Kyoto University and first president of Osaka City University. Francis grew up in Manhattan as an only child, had little contact with Japanese culture, and did not learn Japanese. His family moved to State College, Pennsylvania, in 1967.\n\nFukuyama received his Bachelor of Arts degree in classics from Cornell University, where he studied political philosophy under Allan Bloom. He initially pursued graduate studies in comparative literature at Yale University, going to Paris for six months to study under Roland Barthes and Jacques Derrida but became disillusioned and switched to political science at Harvard University. There, he studied with Samuel P. Huntington and Harvey Mansfield, among others. He earned his Ph.D. in political science at Harvard for his thesis on Soviet threats to intervene in the Middle East. In 1979, he joined the global policy think tank RAND Corporation.\n\nFukuyama lived at the Telluride House and has been affiliated with the Telluride Association since his undergraduate years at Cornell, an education enterprise that was home to other significant leaders and intellectuals, including Steven Weinberg, Paul Wolfowitz and Kathleen Sullivan.\n\nFukuyama was the Omer L. and Nancy Hirst Professor of Public Policy in the School of Public Policy at George Mason University from 1996 to 2000. Until July 10, 2010, he was the Bernard L. Schwartz Professor of International Political Economy and Director of the International Development Program at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University in Washington, D.C. He is now Olivier Nomellini Senior Fellow and resident in the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies at Stanford University.\n\nFukuyama is best known as the author of \"The End of History and the Last Man\", in which he argued that the progression of human history as a struggle between ideologies is largely at an end, with the world settling on liberal democracy after the end of the Cold War and the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. Fukuyama predicted the eventual global triumph of political and economic liberalism:\n\nAuthors like Ralf Dahrendorf argued in 1990 that the essay gave Fukuyama his 15 minutes of fame, which will be followed by a slide into obscurity. He continued to remain a relevant and cited public intellectual leading American communitarian Amitai Etzioni to declare him \"one of the few enduring public intellectuals. They are often media stars who are eaten up and spat out after their 15 minutes. But he has lasted.\"\n\nAccording to Fukuyama, one of the main reasons for the massive criticism against \"The End of History\" was the aggressive stance that it took towards postmodernism. Postmodern philosophy had, in Fukuyama's opinion, undermined the ideology behind liberal democracy, leaving the western world in a potentially weaker position. The fact that Marxism and fascism had been proven untenable for practical use while liberal democracy still thrived was reason enough to embrace the hopeful attitude of the Progressive era, as this hope for the future was what made a society worth struggling to maintain. Postmodernism, which, by this time, had become embedded in the cultural consciousness, offered no hope and nothing to sustain a necessary sense of community, instead relying only on lofty intellectual premises. Being a work that both praised the ideals of a group that had fallen out of favor and challenged the premises of the group that had replaced them, it was bound to create some controversy.\n\nFukuyama has written a number of other books, among them \"Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity\" and \"Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution\". In the latter, he qualified his original \"end of history\" thesis, arguing that since biotechnology increasingly allows humans to control their own evolution, it may allow humans to alter human nature, thereby putting liberal democracy at risk. One possible outcome could be that an altered human nature could end in radical inequality. He is a fierce enemy of transhumanism, an intellectual movement asserting that posthumanity is a desirable goal.\n\nIn another work, \"The Great Disruption: Human Nature and the Reconstruction of Social Order\", Fukuyama explores the origins of social norms, and analyses the current disruptions in the fabric of our moral traditions, which he considers as arising from a shift from the manufacturing to the information age. This shift is, he thinks, normal and will prove self-correcting, given the intrinsic human need for social norms and rules.\n\nIn 2006, in \"America at the Crossroads\", Fukuyama discusses the history of neoconservatism, with particular focus on its major tenets and political implications. He outlines his rationale for supporting the Bush administration, as well as where he believes it has gone wrong.\n\nIn 2008, Fukuyama published the book \"Falling Behind: Explaining the Development Gap Between Latin America and the United States\", which resulted from research and a conference funded by Grupo Mayan to gain understanding on why Latin America, once far wealthier than North America, fell behind in terms of development in only a matter of centuries. Discussing this book at a 2009 conference, Fukuyama outlined his belief that inequality within Latin American nations is a key impediment to growth. An unequal distribution of wealth, he stated, leads to social upheaval, which then results in stunted growth.\n\nAs a key Reagan Administration contributor to the formulation of the Reagan Doctrine, Fukuyama is an important figure in the rise of neoconservatism, although his works came out years after Irving Kristol's 1972 book crystallized neoconservatism. Fukuyama was active in the Project for the New American Century think tank starting in 1997, and as a member co-signed the organization's 1998 letter recommending that President Bill Clinton support Iraqi insurgencies in the overthrow of then-President of Iraq Saddam Hussein. He was also among forty co-signers of William Kristol's September 20, 2001 letter to President George W. Bush after the September 11, 2001 attacks that suggested the U.S. not only \"capture or kill Osama bin Laden\", but also embark upon \"a determined effort to remove Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq\".\n\nIn a \"New York Times\" article from February 2006, Fukuyama, in considering the ongoing Iraq War, stated: \"What American foreign policy needs is not a return to a narrow and cynical realism, but rather the formulation of a 'realistic Wilsonianism' that better matches means to ends.\" In regard to neoconservatism he went on to say: \"What is needed now are new ideas, neither neoconservative nor realist, for how America is to relate to the rest of the world – ideas that retain the neoconservative belief in the universality of human rights, but without its illusions about the efficacy of American power and hegemony to bring these ends about.\"\n\nFukuyama began to distance himself from the neoconservative agenda of the Bush administration, citing its excessive militarism and embrace of unilateral armed intervention, particularly in the Middle East. By late 2003, Fukuyama had voiced his growing opposition to the Iraq War and called for Donald Rumsfeld's resignation as Secretary of Defense.\n\nAt an annual dinner of the American Enterprise Institute in February 2004, Dick Cheney and Charles Krauthammer declared the beginning of a unipolar era under American hegemony. \"All of these people around me were cheering wildly,\" Fukuyama remembers. He believes that the Iraq War was being blundered. \"All of my friends had taken leave of reality.\" He has not spoken to Paul Wolfowitz (previously a good friend) since.\n\nFukuyama declared he would not be voting for Bush, and that the Bush administration had made three mistakes:\n\nFukuyama believes the US has a right to promote its own values in the world, but more along the lines of what he calls \"realistic Wilsonianism\", with military intervention only as a last resort and only in addition to other measures. A latent military force is more likely to have an effect than actual deployment. The US spends 43% of global military spending, but Iraq shows there are limits to its effectiveness.\n\nThe US should instead stimulate political and economic development and gain a better understanding of what happens in other countries. The best instruments are setting a good example and providing education and, in many cases, money. The secret of development, be it political or economic, is that it never comes from outsiders, but always from people in the country itself. One thing the US proved to have excelled in during the aftermath of World War II was the formation of international institutions. A return to support for these structures would combine American power with international legitimacy. But such measures require a lot of patience. This is the central thesis of his 2006 work \"America at the Crossroads\".\n\nIn a 2006 essay in \"The New York Times Magazine\" strongly critical of the invasion, he identified neoconservatism with Leninism. He wrote that neoconservatives:\n\nFukuyama announced the end of the neoconservative moment and argued for the demilitarization of the War on Terrorism:\n\nFukuyama endorsed Barack Obama in the 2008 US presidential election. He states:\n\nIn a 2018 interview with \"New Statesman\", when asked about his views on the resurgence of socialist politics in the United States and Great Britain, he responded:\n\n\nFukuyama is a part-time photographer. He also has a keen interest in early-American furniture, which he reproduces by hand. He is keenly interested in sound recording and reproduction, saying, \"These days I seem to spend as much time thinking about gear as I do analyzing politics for my day job.\"\n\nFukuyama is married to Laura Holmgren, whom he met when she was a UCLA graduate student after he started working for the RAND Corporation. He dedicated his book \"Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity\" to her. They live in California, with their three children, Julia, David, and John.\n\nHe is the first cousin to crime novelist Joe Ide. Francis helped him get his first book published.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4218233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4218233", "title": "French Parliamentary Commission on Rwanda", "text": "French Parliamentary Commission on Rwanda\n\nThe French Parliamentary Commission on Rwanda was invested in the beginning of 1998, following a press-led campaign and articles by journalist Patrick de Saint-Exupéry in the Figaro newspaper, which called for an examination into the role of the French government in the events surrounding the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. The Belgian Senate undertook a similar initiative in 1997.\n\nThe French deputies decided to examine French policy in Rwanda between 1990 and 1994. For the first time in the history of the Fifth Republic, the Assembly examined events related to the \"reserved domains\" of the President of the Republic, in other words, functions of government historically seen as the exclusive realm of presidential authority. Composed of members of the Foreign Relations Parliamentary Committee and the National Defence and Armed Forces Parliamentary Committee, this mission was thus an expression of a renewed intent of parliamentarians to extend the democratic field of the Parliament.\n\nThe commission was presided over by Paul Quilès, and the hearings took place between March 24 and July 9, 1998. In connection with the inquiry, the committee members spent two days in Rwanda, visiting the Murambi memorial and meeting with Rwandan officials and private organizations. Entitled \"Report of the Information Mission of the National Defense and Armed Forces Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee on the military operations led by France, other countries and the United Nations in Rwanda between 1990 and 1994\", the final report was published on December 15, 1998 .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3209047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209047", "title": "Kadima", "text": "Kadima\n\nKadima () was a centrist and liberal political party in Israel. It was established on 24 November 2005 by moderates from Likud largely to support the issue of Ariel Sharon's unilateral disengagement plan, and was soon joined by like-minded Labor politicians.\n\nWith Ehud Olmert as party chairman following Sharon's stroke, it became the largest party in the Knesset after the 2006 elections, winning 29 of the 120 seats, and led a coalition government. Although Kadima also won the most seats in the 2009 elections under Tzipi Livni's leadership, it became an opposition party for the first time after a Likud-led government was formed. Livni was defeated in the 2012 leadership election, losing out to the more conservative Shaul Mofaz. Following Livni's defeat, the party's progressive wing broke away at the end of 2012, to form a new centre-left party, Hatnuah, which Livni led from the outset. In the 2013 elections, Kadima became the smallest party in the Knesset, winning only 2 seats and barely passing the electoral threshold. It did not enter the 2015 elections.\n\nTo date, it is the only party other than Mapai/Labour or Likud to have led a government in Israel.\n\nPrior to Kadima's formation, the political tug-of-war between Ariel Sharon and his right-wing supporters, both within the Likud and outside of it, was an ongoing subject of speculation in Israeli politics and in the Israeli media. The expectation that Sharon would leave his own party to form a new party composed of his Likud allies and open the door to politicians from other parties to switch to the new party was dubbed the \"big bang\" (\"HaMapatz HaGadol\") because it would result in a radical realignment of Israel's political landscape.\n\nA number of complex factors contributed to Sharon's decision to split from the Likud. After the official split from the party, Sharon claimed it was a decision made on a single night's thought, but at the press conference announcing the formation of the new party, Sharon adviser and Kadima's new Director General, Avigdor Yitzhaki, accidentally revealed that work on the project had been going on for several months. In the past Sharon had switched between left- and right-wing politics: having been a Mapai member, he joined Likud in the early 1970s, before leaving the party. After acting as a special advisor to Alignment PM Yitzhak Rabin in the mid-1970s, he established an economically left-wing Shlomtzion party, which later merged with Likud. On becoming Prime Minister in the 2000s, Sharon twice formed unity governments with the Labor Party.\n\nIn 2005 the implementation of the Gaza disengagement plan exposed enormous rifts inside the Likud and wider society in Israel. Benjamin Netanyahu capitalised on the split within the Likud by aligning himself with the rejectionist faction. While Sharon's popularity grew among the Israeli populace at large, it declined inside the Likud party structure. Netanyahu resigned as Finance Minister on 7 August 2005, saying the government's implementation of the disengagement plan endangered the safety of Israeli citizens. Sharon was then unable to get approval from the Likud Central Committee for his key ally Ehud Olmert to that position.\n\nThe final straw was the unexpected ousting of Sharon's ally Shimon Peres as leader of the Labor Party by the election of left-wing Histadrut union leader Amir Peretz in an internal ballot on 8 November 2005. Peretz demanded that all Labor Party ministers resign from the unity government and called for dissolution of the Knesset and for early elections, which were to be held in March 2006. When all the Labor ministers had resigned, Sharon lost his safety net of supporters from the party for the implementation of his political agenda, which included continuing negotiations with the Palestinian Authority for \"permanent borders\" and a hoped-for final resolution of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the settlement of the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nThe party was founded by Sharon after he formally left Likud on 21 November 2005 to establish a new party that would grant him the freedom to carry out the disengagement plan—removing Israeli settlements from Palestinian territory and fixing Israel's borders with a prospective Palestinian state.\n\nThe name \"Kadima\" (literally: \"Forward\") emerged within the first days of the split and was favored by Sharon. However, it was not immediately adopted, and the party was initially named \"National Responsibility\" (Hebrew: , \"Ahrayaut Leumit\"), which was proposed by Justice Minister Tzipi Livni and enthusiastically endorsed by Reuven Adler, Sharon's close confidante and strategy adviser. Although \"National Responsibility\" was regarded as provisional, subsequent tests conducted with focus groups proved it much more popular than \"Kadima\". \"National Responsibility\" seemed certain to become permanent. Surprisingly, however, it was announced on 24 November 2005 that the party had finally registered under the name \"Kadima\". The title \"Kadima\" has symbolic meaning for many Israelis who associate it with the battle-charge of army officers; Sharon may have attempted to highlight his military accomplishments ahead of the March 2006 elections. As a common Hebrew word, however, the term \"Kadima\" has been ubiquitous in Israeli political rhetoric and is likely not indicative of any specific ideological bias; indeed, it had been used as a name before by early Zionist leader Nathan Birnbaum, and was the motto of the Jewish Legion of World War I formed by Ze'ev Jabotinsky and Joseph Trumpeldor. The decision to name the party \"Kadima\" was criticised by Shinui leader Yosef Lapid, who remarked that it was too similar to Benito Mussolini's newspaper \"Avanti\" (Italian for \"Forward\").\nAccording to Sharon supporters, on the first day after its founding, Kadima already had nearly 150 members, most of whom were defectors from Likud. Several Knesset members from Labor, Likud, and other parties immediately joined the new party, including cabinet ministers Ehud Olmert, Tzipi Livni, Meir Sheetrit, Gideon Ezra and Avraham Hirschson. Deputy ministers Ruhama Avraham, Majalli Wahabi, Eli Aflalo, Marina Solodkin, Ze'ev Boim and Yaakov Edri also joined the party, along with Likud MKs Roni Bar-On and Omri Sharon. Former Histadrut chairman Haim Ramon of Labor decided to join the party shortly thereafter. On 30 November 2005, former Prime Minister Shimon Peres left the Labor Party after more than 60 years with the party, and announced he would join Kadima to help Sharon pursue peace with the Palestinians. In the immediate aftermath of Sharon's illnesses, there was speculation that Peres might be chosen to take over as leader of Kadima. One poll suggested the party would win 42 seats in the March 2006 elections with Peres as leader compared to 40 if it were led by Ehud Olmert. Most senior Kadima leaders, however, were former members of Likud and indicated their support for (former Likud) Olmert as Sharon's successor.\n\nThe ramifications of Sharon's close identification with Kadima moved the party in an unexpected direction due to his mounting medical problems, which began only a few weeks after Kadima was formed. First, Sharon was hospitalized on 18 December 2005 after reportedly suffering a minor stroke. This introduced a serious element of uncertainty for Sharon's and Kadima's supporters.\n\nDuring his hospital stay, Sharon was also diagnosed with a minor hole in his heart and was scheduled to undergo a cardiac catheterization to fill the hole in his atrial septum on 5 January 2006. However, on 4 January 2006, 22:50 Israel Time (GMT +0200) Sharon suffered a massive hemorrhagic stroke, and was evacuated to Hadassah Ein Kerem hospital in Jerusalem to undergo brain surgery.\n\nActing Prime Minister Ehud Olmert succeeded him as Prime Ministerial candidate. Without Sharon, there was uncertainty about the future of the party. Nevertheless, three polls taken shortly after Sharon's illness showed that Kadima continued to lead its rivals by large margins. Later polls showed Kadima strengthening its power base further, particularly amongst left wing voters who had opposed Sharon in the past.\n\nOn 16 January 2006, party members chose Ehud Olmert as acting chairman for the March elections. Kadima won 29 seats, and was asked to form a government by president Moshe Katsav. Olmert formed a coalition with Labor, Shas and Gil, the government being sworn in on 4 May. \n\nYisrael Beiteinu joined the coalition in October 2006, but left again in January 2008 in protest at negotiations with the Palestinian Authority.\n\nOlmert resigned as party leader in 2008, resulting in a leadership election, held on 17 September. The vote was won by Tzipi Livni, who beat Shaul Mofaz, Meir Sheetrit and Avi Dichter. Following her victory, Livni failed to form a coalition government, as she refused to agree to Shas' demands, resulting in early elections in February 2009. In the elections Kadima remained the largest party in the Knesset, winning 28 seats, one more than Likud. However, Likud's Netanyahu was asked to form a government by President Peres following talks with delegations from all parties represented in the Knesset.\n\nLivni lost the leadership of Kadima to Shaul Mofaz, considered the leader of the party's right wing, in a leadership election in March 2012. In November, Livni, supported mainly by Kadima's dovish flank, left Kadima with seven other Kadima MKs to form a new centrist political party, Hatnuah.\n\nIn the 2013 legislative election, Kadima lost almost 90% of its vote share from 2009. The party narrowly avoided being ejected from the Knesset, crossing the 2% threshold by just a few hundred votes. The party was reduced to just two MKs, Mofaz and Yisrael Hasson, making it the smallest of the 12 factions in the chamber. Prior to the 2015 elections Mofaz announced that he was retiring from politics after Kadima decided against joining the Zionist Union alliance. Hasson had already left the Knesset in 2013 to become chairman of the Israel Antiquities Authority.\n\nFollowing Mofaz's retirement, Akram Hasson was elected party leader, becoming the first Druze leader of a predominantly Jewish party. However, his leadership was short-lived, with Hasson soon quitting the party to join the Kulanu list, receiving the 12th slot. Following this announcement, Kadima opted to sit out the election.\n\n\nIn the early stages, the policies of Kadima directly reflected the views of Ariel Sharon and his stated policies.\n\nEarly statements from the Sharon camp reported by the Israeli media claimed that they were setting up a truly \"centrist\" and \"liberal\" party. It would appear that Sharon hoped to attract members of the Knesset from other parties and well-known politicians regardless of their prior beliefs provided they accepted Sharon's leadership and were willing to implement a \"moderate\" political agenda.\n\nOn the domestic front, Sharon had shown a tendency to agree with his past political partner, the pro-secular and outspokenly anti-religious Shinui party (his allies in the 2003 government), which sought to promote a secular civil agenda as opposed to the strong influence of Israel's Orthodox and Haredi parties. One of the Haredi parties, United Torah Judaism, joined Sharon's last coalition at the same time as the Labor Party, after Shinui had left Sharon's original governing coalition. In the past, Shinui had also called itself a \"centrist\" party because it rejected both Labor's socialism (its economic policies were free-market) and the Likud's opposition to a Palestinian state (however, from an international standpoint, Shinui may have actually been on the centre-right).\n\nJustice Minister Tzipi Livni reportedly told Israel Army Radio that Kadima intended to help foster the desire for a separate Palestinian state, a move applauded by leftist Yossi Beilin.\n\nSharon was one of the prime architects pushing for the construction of the Israeli West Bank barrier that has been criticized by left-wing and right-wing Israeli politicians, but was a cornerstone of Sharon's determination to establish Israel's final borders, which he saw himself as uniquely suited to do in the so-called \"Final Status\" negotiations.\n\nIn a 22 November 2005 press conference, Sharon also mentioned that he favored withdrawing from untenable Israeli settlements in the West Bank, although he declined to give an actual timeline or specifics for the proposed action.\n\nKadima favors continuing a market-based economy with adequate welfare benefits.\n\nThere has been some debate over where Kadima lies on the political spectrum. Many in the Western media use the term centrist, (in that it is positioned between the Labor Party and Likud). Over the last thirty years, Israel has seen a movement by both the right and the left towards the center. Founder Ariel Sharon spent a career switching between the right of Israeli politics and the left—notably in the 1970s when he served as an aide to then Prime Minister Rabin. Most of its elected membership are former Likud party members, but it also has a number of notable ex-Labor MK's. The previous government of Ehud Olmert was considered left of center, collaborating with the Labor and two sector-socialist parties, Gil and Shas. Following the 2009 elections, with its subsequent political negotiations for a centerist coalition with the Likud and the Labor, it is suggested that the ideological differences of the center-left and center-right in Israel are fairly minor, but the fact that this only lasted 60 days belies this.\n\nWhen Kadima was trying to form a coalition in 2006, the BBC reported that the new party leaned center-right in economic terms while its main coalition partner, Labor, leaned center-left. Labor wanted the Finance Ministry to push through some costly social reforms. It failed to get it, but still insists that the minimum wage, and pension and health benefits, be raised in Israel. At the time, Labor favored a negotiated land agreement with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, and Kadima had so far refused to speak to any Palestinian leader since the Hamas election and has spoken openly of taking unilateral steps in the West Bank, which the Palestinians oppose. Since then, however, Kadima has directly negotiated with the Palestinian Authority.\n\nFollowing the 2009 elections, Kadima led the opposition in the Knesset. During the elections, Kadima successfully attracted left-of-center voters, to the dismay of Labor and Meretz leaders, who discouraged their supporters from doing so. Neither Labor nor Meretz, who were initially expected to be Kadima's natural allies, recommended Livni as prime minister to Peres, reportedly due to Livni's courting of Avigdor Lieberman's Yisrael Beiteinu party. Shimon Peres told Ynet in 2006 that \"there is no difference\" between Kadima and Labor, and suggested that the two groups unite. He added that neither he nor Kadima founder Ariel Sharon liked the economic policy of Likud chairman Benjamin Netanyahu. The \"Haaretz\" diplomatic correspondent Aluf Benn suggested in November 2009, that Kadima does not have any ideological differences with the Labor Party that would prevent a merger.\n\n\nIn addition, Shimon Peres, a former head of Labor, served as Deputy Leader, and was elected President as the Kadima candidate.\n\nAfter the 2013 election the party had 2 MKs:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15508128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15508128", "title": "Kennan Institute", "text": "Kennan Institute\n\nThe Kennan Institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars was founded in 1974 to carry out studies of the Soviet Union (Sovietology), and subsequently of post-Soviet Russia and other post-Soviet states. The Institute is widely regarded as the foremost institute for advanced Russia studies in the United States.\n\nThe Kennan Institute is the oldest program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and a national resource for putting \"knowledge in the public service.\" For over 40 years, the Kennan Institute's mission has been to improve American understanding of Russia in order to improve our nation's ability to engage with and make policy concerning Russia and the wider region.\n\nThe Institute is named after George Kennan an American explorer of Russia and twice removed older cousin of Ambassador George F. Kennan. George F. Kennan is best known as the author of The Long Telegram and the X Article, and by extension the author of America’s containment policy toward the Soviet Union. Ambassador Kennan, together with Wilson Center Director James Billington and historian S. Frederick Starr, initiated the establishment of the Kennan Institute at the Woodrow Wilson Center.\n\nIn addition to its office in Washington, the Kennan Institute operates an office in Kyiv, Ukraine. Kennan’s Kyiv office provides on-the-ground assistance to the Washington staff and a communication link with various Ukrainian organizations. The office also organizes publications, seminars, and conferences on major events of the day featuring Kennan Institute alumni.\n\nThe Institute offers residential scholarships in the humanities and social sciences to academic scholars and specialists from government, the media, and the private sectors. Thanks to its location in Washington, D.C., scholars at the Kennan Institute have access to libraries, archives, research facilities, and human resources that are among the finest in the world.\n\nThe Institute also administers an active program of public lectures and conferences featuring scholars and public figures from the United States, Ukraine, Russia, and other states from the region. The Institute makes the results of its activities known through a variety of publications including Meeting Reports, Occasional Papers, Special Reports, and commercially published books.\n\nMost recent research topics include\n\n\nThe Kennan Institute is a partner of the Russian and Eurasian Security Specialized Network (RES) of the international Center for Security Studies (CSS), ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.\n\nThe Kennan Institute has recently concluded its cooperation with the ISE Center (Information. Scholarship. Education.), Moscow, in administering the Centers for Advanced Study and Education (CASE) program. The CASE program, launched with support from Carnegie Corporation of New York and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, established nine thematic research centers at regional Russian universities in order to foster scholarship in the social sciences and humanities. These Centers are now administered directly by their home universities and the Russian Ministry of Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "2178360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178360", "title": "Khmer People's National Liberation Front", "text": "Khmer People's National Liberation Front\n\nThe Khmer People's National Liberation Front (KPNLF) was a political front organized in 1979 in opposition to the Vietnamese-installed People's Republic of Kampuchea (PRK) regime in Cambodia. The 200,000 Vietnamese troops supporting the PRK, as well as Khmer Rouge defectors, had ousted the brutal Democratic Kampuchea regime of Pol Pot, and were initially welcomed by the majority of Cambodians as liberators. Some Khmer, though, recalled the two countries' historical rivalry and feared that the Vietnamese would attempt to subjugate the country, and began to oppose their military presence. Members of the KPNLF supported this view.\n\nOn 5 January 1979 a \"Committee for a Neutral and Peaceful Cambodia\" (\"Comité pour un Cambodge Neutre et Indépendant, CCNI\") was established in Paris composed of Son Sann (a leading Cambodian neutralist, ex-President of the National Bank of Cambodia, and Prime Minister from 1967 to 1968), Sim Var, Yem Sambaur, Hhiek Tioulong, Nong Kimmy, Thonn Ouk and Chai Thoul. It issued a six-point declaration condemning the Khmer Rouge and the \"North Vietnamese Aggression\", urged adherence to the 1954 Geneva Accords and 1973 Paris Peace Conference proposals, demanded an immediate ceasefire in Cambodia, and the establishment of a democratically elected government to be established following a referendum.\n\nVietnam had invaded Democratic Kampuchea in December 1978 and entered Phnom Penh on January 6, 1979. Immediately the Royal Thai Government approached Son Sann with offers of support for a non-communist resistance force. Son Sann, in turn, flew to New York City to ask Prince Norodom Sihanouk (who was preparing to address the UN General Assembly) to lead the KPNLF, but Sihanouk declined and even refused his support.\n\nIn February 1979, General Dien Del and Nguon Pythoureth flew to Thailand to form the Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces (KPNLAF). The two went from camp to camp persuading local leaders to join. Those who agreed to fight under Son Sann were Chea Chhut (at Nong Chan), ex-Khmer National Armed Forces Colonel Prum Vith, Ta Maing and Om Luot (at Nong Samet). By mid-1979 there were 1600 armed soldiers in the KPNLAF.\n\nIn August 1979 Son Sann went to Thailand with his sons (Son Soubert and Son Monir), Neang Chin Han (former Director of the Executive Cabinet under President Lon Nol), Madame Suon Kaset Sokhomaly, Colonel Thou Thip, Colonel Ea Chuor Kim Meng, Suon Sophat and Buon Say, all from France. The KPNLF was proclaimed on October 9 at Sok Sann, a camp in the jungles of the Cardamom Mountains that contained \"barely 2000 men\" and was a merger of 13 quite disparate groups such as the Khleang Moeung (500 men), Cobra (led by Colonel Prum Vith) and Khmer Islam Movement, the Prey Veng, the Nationalist Movement, Oknha Son Kuy, Kauv Tjlok, the Khmer Neutralist Movement, the Black Indra, United Free Khmer, ASW, Tonle Bassak, and the Kompong Thom Movement. The following month the first shipment of 3000 rifles arrived from Beijing. Son Sann assumed the leadership of the KPNLF together with an executive committee and a military council.\n\nThe KPNLF was thus established as a right-wing, pro-Western, anti-Communist political faction in opposition to the Vietnamese-installed and backed People's Republic of Kampuchea.\n\nUS President Ronald Reagan authorized the provision of aid to KPNLF in an effort to force an end to the Vietnamese occupation. In 1982, the U.S. government initiated a covert aid program to the non-communist resistance (NCR) amounting to $5 million per year, ostensibly for non-lethal aid only. This amount was increased to $8 million in 1984 and $12 million in 1987 and 1988. In late 1988, the United States pared back CIA funding to $8 million, following reports that $3.5 million had been diverted by the Thai military. At the same time, the Reagan Administration gave new flexibility to the funds, permitting the NCR to purchase US-made weapons in Singapore and other regional markets. In 1985, the United States established a separate, overt aid program to the non-communist resistance which came to be known as the Solarz Fund after one of its chief sponsors, Rep. Stephen Solarz. The overt aid program channeled about $5 million per year of humanitarian aid to the non-communist resistance through USAID.\nSince its beginning, the KPNLF had depended on international financial aid to help maintain their civilian camps and carry out military operations. Sann was critical for gathering this financial aid, as well as increasing international awareness of KPNLF's cause. In fact, in 1982 he went on a fundraising trip to the United States and Europe. Sann was very popular with his quiet, humble demeanor and engaging personality. In addition to Sann's trips, the KPNLF trumpeted their status as the first non-communist anti-PRK faction inside of Cambodia. This increased financial aid because it appealed to the \"Western\" forces that were interested in ousting the Vietnamese yet not supporting the Khmer Rouge. \nIn order to increase their political clout and legitimacy, the KPNLF joined with the Khmer Rouge (at this point in time officially called the Party of Democratic Kampuchea) and Prince Sihanouk's United National Front for an Independent, Neutral, Peaceful, and Co-operative Cambodia (FUNCINPEC) to form the Coalition Government of Democratic Kampuchea (CGDK). Even though both the KPNLF and FUNCINPEC did not agree with the Khmer Rouge's philosophy and methodology, they still joined the CGDK for the increased international legitimacy and recognition. This increase came because it appeared as if native Cambodians were putting aside their differences and banding together to remove a foreign occupier. In fact, some believe that this coalition was formed in part due to external pressures because the CGDK was allowed to occupy the Cambodian seat in the UN, even though the coalition lacked the normal prerequisites for such recognition.\n\nThe military branch of the KPNLF was the Khmer People's National Liberation Armed Forces (KPNLAF). Established originally in March 1979 by General Dien Del, it was commanded by Sak Sutsakhan from 1981-1992 (with the exception of some power struggles). However, in an individual unit the commander was relatively autonomous, therefore General Sak had the difficult job of coordinating the actions of each unit. This understandably led to a lot of confusion and relative ineffectiveness for large-scale battles. On the other hand, this organization reaped benefits in the form of greater flexibility and mobility of the armed forces.\n\nDespite this military tendency to act in the form of individual unit attacks, occasionally the KPNLAF would join with other separatist forces to launch a large-scale assault on a specific target or area. For example, on March 28, 1986 the CGDK launched a successful raid on Battambang, Cambodia's second largest city.\n\nFor the KPNLAF large-scale military actions were stopped after the Vietnamese dry season offensive in 1984-1985. These attacks were devastating, yet not completely debilitating. Even after the huge loss of approximately 30% of its men and material, the KPNLAF was still able to carry out guerrilla operations for the rest of its existence.\n\nAs with many political groups, the KPNLF had its fair share of party infighting. During its history, two major divides have occurred: one before the Paris Peace Accords in 1991 and one after the UN-backed elections of 1993.\n\nPublic knowledge of the first divide began in late December 1985. On one side was Son Sann, president of the faction. On the other side were the usurpers led by military commander Sak Sutsakhan, his chief of staff Dien Del, and party members Abdul Gaffar Peang Meth and Hing Kunthorn. The dissenters' charges against Sann included an unwillingness to attack the Vietnamese in coordination with Sihanouk's forces and supposed meddling in military affairs, both of which led to greater military impotence. They also accused Sann of being undemocratic and \"ruling with an iron fist.\"\n\nOn Jan. 2 the dissidents released a statement saying that they had control of the faction. Dien Del and Sutsakhan had formed the Provisional Central Committee of Salvation whose function was to command the party. Sann then released a counter-statement saying the actions of Dien and Sutsakhan were both illegal and against the spirit of the party, but that they would still be welcomed back to the party if they stopped this divisive action. On the other hand, for Abdul Gaffar Peang Meth and Hing Kunthorn, Sann believed that disciplinary action was necessary in order to rejoin the party. Sann continued on and said he had the support of the United States, ASEAN, and China (the three major financial backers of the KPNLF).\n\nHowever, the infighting continued because neither side had the power to defeat the other. As the months wore on, Thai authorities became concerned with the KPNLF and in particular, the KPNLAF's abilities to wage war against the PRK because of divided leadership. Therefore, the Thais helped establish (in March 1986) a 10-member provisional military committee without the knowledge of Sutsakhan or Sann. The committee's purpose was to command the military operations of the KPNLAF until the conflict was over. Members of the committee included Dien Del from the Sutsakhan camp and the new head of Sann's Command committee, Prum Vith.\n\nThe dissidence was finally resolved with the help of a third party. While Sann was allowed to keep the title of the presidency and many of the civilian powers that go with it, Sutsakhan retained his military command of both the faction and joint operations between the KPNLAF and FUNCINPEC. However, the peace did not last forever, and after the Paris Peace Accords were implemented Sutsakhan formed the Liberal Democratic Party, an offshoot political branch of the KPNLF.\n\nIn 1991, France and Indonesia called for a peace conference about the civil war in Cambodia. All four factions inside of Cambodia attended, as well as the UN and many prominent foreign nations (e.g., United States, the Soviet Union, China, and the United Kingdom). The goal of the conference was to establish a united, peaceful, and neutral democracy in Cambodia. In October 1991, all attending parties signed the Paris Peace Agreement. \n\nThe agreement called for UN sanctioned elections in 1993 to determine the future government of Cambodia. During the time span in between the signing of the peace agreement and the election, Cambodia would be watched over by the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC). The peace agreement stipulated that all four factions must cooperate with UNTAC to slowly disarm their fighting forces. All of the factions did so except for the Khmer Rouge, who then protested and did not partake in the election.\n\nThe necessity to change from a military faction to a political party facilitated a name change. The Khmer People's National Liberation Front became the Buddhist Liberal Democratic Party. The name change did not result from a deviation in the platform or structure of the KPNLF, with the exception of the loss of the KPNLAF and the previously mentioned Sutsakhan breakaway party. The BLDP was still led by Son Sann, and in the UN sanctioned elections of 1993 the BLDP won 10 out of 120 seats in the National Assembly.\n\nDue to the inability of any one party to win an absolute majority, the BLDP became a junior member of a coalition government with the Cambodian People's Party (formerly the PRK) and FUNCINPEC. Being a part of the coalition entitled the party to a position in the power-sharing cabinet and an important chair on a commission for the National Assembly (e.g., Ieng Mouly was the Minister of Information, and Kem Sokha was chairman on the National Assembly's Human Rights Commission.)\n\nAs in early 1986, there was a dissension among the party ranks in 1995. However, this time it was not a disagreement between military and political control, but a conflict between two politicians: Son Sann and Ieng Mouly.\n\nAccording to sources, Sann and Mouly had been arguing about different topics for many years. Some of their more vocal disagreements were: Sann being fiercely anti-Vietnamese, Sann's hasty rescinded order to boycott the 1993 UN elections, and Mouly's questioning of the appropriateness of the Cambodian monarchy being involved in the new democracy.\n\nDespite these differences and so many more not mentioned, Mouly and Sann reached a type of power-sharing agreement after the 1993 elections. In exchange for Sann remaining the head of the party, Mouly would get the party's only cabinet position (minister of information). The two decided on this arrangement because it was better to keep the BLDP together, rather than split and lose the party's legislative power, as well as its position in the power sharing coalition.\n\nHowever this arrangement did not last very long, for in 1995 the two sides quarreled. To begin with, Sann constantly supported anti-Vietnamese legislation. This irritated Mouly and his supporters, essentially keeping tension between the two groups from subsiding. The boiling point was finally reached when Sann supporters announced that Mouly had been kicked out of the party. This set off a firestorm and Mouly's side immediately responded in kind, stating the opposite: Sann, instead of Mouly, had been removed from the party.\n\nAs time passed, the latter turned out to be true. On July 9, 1995 Ieng Mouly summoned a special congress of the BLDP in order to select new leadership. Due to the non-attendance of Son Sann and his supporters, Mouly was elected unanimously by the congress. However, shortly after the congress, the BLDP dissolved. Mouly went on to become leader of the Liberal Democratic Party and Sann's supporters created the Son Sann party. Neither side has won a seat in the National Assembly since the split.\n\n"}
{"id": "48396149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48396149", "title": "Low Emission Development Strategies Global Partnership (LEDS GP)", "text": "Low Emission Development Strategies Global Partnership (LEDS GP)\n\nThe Low Emissions Development Strategies Global Partnership (LEDS GP) aims to advance climate-resilient low emission development and support transitions to a low-carbon economy through coordination, information exchange and cooperation among countries and programs working to advance low-emission economic growth. The partnership was launched in 2011 and brings together more than 160 governmental and international institutions. The implementation, knowledge management, and outreach of LEDS GP is coordinated by a co-secretariat of the Climate & Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL).\n\nLEDS GP delivers support through its three regional platforms, the Africa LEDS Partnership (AfLP), the Latin America and the Caribbean Partnership (LEDS LAC) and Asia Partnership (ALP). It aims to: \n\nLEDS GP delivers support through six technical working groups on the following topics. \n\nThrough its Remote Expert Assistance on LEDS (REAL) service, the LEDS GP provides virtual technical assistance to developing country government agencies or initiatives—as well as their consultants, technical institutions, and non-government organizations—working on LEDS plans and implementation.\n\nIn May 2016, LEDS GP announced the launch of its Fellowship Program, which aims to embed individuals or teams of practitioners in leading institutions to learn practical lessons that they can apply to low emission development strategies (LEDS) and/or Intended Nationally Determined Contributions in their home countries.\n"}
{"id": "56990199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56990199", "title": "Madeleina Kay", "text": "Madeleina Kay\n\nMadeleina Kay is a British writer, illustrator and political activist from Sheffield, England. She is Young European of the Year 2018 Using the hashtag #EUsupergirl, she campaigns to promote the European Union and for the United Kingdom to remain a member.\n\nShe has been interviewed on the BBC television show \"Daily Politics\", BBC \"Sunday Politics\", BBC Radio 4, Reuters France Inter, Euronews. She has also appeared on panel debates for Channel 4 News, and the BBC Radio 4 political talk show \"Any Questions\".\n\nPhotos and articles about her campaign have been published in the \"Evening Standard\", , the Guardian , the \"Daily Telegraph\", \"Paris Match\",\nFrench \"Grazia\", and \"La Croix\". \n\nKay wrote and illustrated an anti-Brexit book, \"Theresa Maybe in Brexitland\".\n\nKay was the Young Talent Winner of the Great British Postcard Competition 2017. She came third place in the Europe in my Region blogging competition 2017.\n\nIn 2018, Kay was awarded with the Young European of the Year title by the European Parliament and the Schwarzkopf Foundation, honouring her for her \"pro-European efforts in the UK & beyond\".\n"}
{"id": "412064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412064", "title": "Magatama", "text": "Magatama\n\nMagatama first appeared in Japan in the Final Jōmon period, c. 1000 to 300 BCE, and in this period magatama were made from relatively simple, naturally occurring materials, including clay, talc, slate, quartz, gneiss, jadeite, nephrite, and serpentinite. They lack the uniformity of design found in magatama produced in later periods. Magatama from the Jōmon period were irregularly shaped, lacked continuity in form from region to region, and have been called \"Stone Age magatama\" for this reason. Magatama are thought to be an imitation of the teeth of large animals, pierced with a hole, which are found in earlier Jōmon remains. These resemble magatama, but more recent scholarship indicates that these early Jōmon may have simply had a decorative function, and have no relationship to magatama. Magatama in the Jōmon period appear to have moved from the purely decorative to having a status and ceremonial function by the end of the period. A \"middle Jōmon exchange network\" may have existed, whereby magatama were produced in regions where materials for their manufacture were readily plentiful. Jade and talc examples produced in bead-making villages located in present-day Itoigawa, Niigata have been found at a large number of sites in along the northern coast, central mountains, and Kantō region.\n\n\nMagatama in the Yayoi period, c. 300 BCE to 300 CE, are notably different from Jōmon-period magatama. The jewels moved from a primitive, non-standard form towards more polished and uniform form in this period. The technology to cut large gemstones and polish jewels notably advanced in the Yayoi period. Refined materials such as jadeite, serpentinite, and glass replaced the less sophisticated materials of the Jōmon period. Yayoi period magatama are noted for their reverse C-shaped form, which by the end of the period became an almost squared shape. From the Yayoi period on magatama uniformly feature a bored hole that allowed the jewels to be held on a string.\n\nThe Yayoi period is marked by specific centers specializing in magatama and the widespread trade of magatama. The period is marked by the formation of power centers that came to be individual states. The development of weapons increased in this period to protect increasingly developed rice fields and fishing rights. Trade greatly increased in this period, as did the specialization of production of certain items, including magatama. Magatama producing areas exchanged their product with other products, specifically rice, leading to the widespread distribution of magatama across Japan. Magatama were commonly used to create necklaces and bracelets worn on the wrists or ankles. The necklace was typically constructed of jadeite magatama separated by cylindrical bored-holed pieces of jasper. Small beads of dark-blue glass are also not uncommon on the necklace. The bracelet was typically also used shells from the coastal areas of Shikoku and the Inland Sea, wood, and bronze. In this period the use of the mirror, sword, and jewels as status symbols for village, and later regional leaders of all kinds, emerged in the Yayoi period, and point to the origin of the mirror, sword, and magatama as the Imperial Regalia of Japan.\n\nThe \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\", the earliest historical document with a reference to Japan, describes the Wa people, an ancient country of Yamatai, and its queen, Himiko. The \"Record\" indicates that when Himiko died her relative Iyo, a girl of thirteen, was made queen and sent a delegation of twenty officials under Yazuku, an imperial general, to offer tribute to the Northern Wei court. \"The delegation visited the capital and [] offered to the court five thousand white gems and two pieces of carved jade, as well as twenty pieces of brocade with variegated designs.\" The carved jade in the \"Record\" likely describes a tribute of two jade magatama.\n\n\nMagatama became very common in the Kofun period, c. CE 250 to CE 538, and by the end of the period almost all kofun tumuli contained magatama. In the early Kofun period magatama were made from jadeite as in earlier periods, but by the middle of the period were made from jasper, and by the end of the period, almost exclusively of agate and jade. Magatama capped by silver or gold also appear towards the end of the period. Large magatama made of talc, imitations of smaller ones made of more precious materials, were used as grave goods. Magatama are found in kofun tumuli across Japan from the period. Their use went from merely decorative to sacred and ceremonial grave goods. are magatama with inscriptions that look like flowers of the clove tree and have a hole suitable to attach to a string. These first appear in the Kofun period. In the Kofun period magatama appear on necklaces, with several magatama set between bored cylinders. Archeological remains show evidence of similar ankle bracelets, but they are less common. Clay haniwa funerary objects of the Kofun period commonly depict people wearing the necklaces and ankle bracelets.\n\nExamples of stone magatama from the Kofun period are especially numerous.\n\n\nArchaeologists and historians are unable yet to explain what the origins of magatama forms are, or whether these forms can be traced back to one convergent source. However, these alternative explanations have been provided:\n\n\nThe Kojiki and Nihon Shoki, completed in the 8th century, have numerous references to magatama. They appear in the first chapter of the Nihon Shoki, which largely describes the mythology of Japan. Susanoo, god of the sea and storms, received five hundred magatama from Tamanoya no mikoto, or Ame-no-Futodama-no-mikoto, the jewel-making deity. Susanoo went to heaven and presented them to his sister, the sun goddess Amaterasu, who bit off successive parts of the magatama, and blew them away to create other deities. Tamanoya no mikoto remains the kami god of magatama, glasses, and cameras. In the legend Amaterasu later shuts herself in a cave. Ama-no-Koyane-no-mikoto hung magatama, among other objects, on a five hundred-branch sakaki tree, to successfully lure Amaterasu from the cave. In the year 58, in the reign of the Emperor Suinin, the Nihon shoki records that a dog kills and disembowels a \"mujina\", a type of badger, and a magatama was discovered in its stomach. This magatama was presented to Suinin, who enshrined it at Isonokami Shrine, where it is said to presently reside. A similar practice is described again in the Nihon shoki during the reign of the Emperor Chūai. Chūai made an inspection trip to the Tsukushi, or Kyūshū, and was presented with an enormous sakaki tree hung with magatama as well as other sacred objects.\n\nA noted magatama is the , one of the three Imperial Regalia of Japan. Swords, mirrors, and jewels were common objects of status for regional rulers in Japan as early as the Yayoi period, and were further widespread in the Kofun period, as shown by their ubiquitous presence in kofun tumuli. The Yasakani no Magatama is stored at the , the central shrine of the Three Palace Sanctuaries at the Tokyo Imperial Palace, and is used in the enthronement ceremony of the Emperor of Japan.\n\nDaniel Clarence Holtom stated in 1928 in \"Japanese enthronement ceremonies; with an account of the imperial regalia\" that the Yasakani no Magatama is the only one of the three regalia that exists in its original form; post-World War II scholarship supports the claim. Replicas of the sword and mirror were made as early as the 9th century, and the originals were entrusted to other shrines.\n\nD. C. Holtom stated that noro priestesses of the Ryukyu Kingdom wore magatama necklaces early in the twentieth century for ceremonial purposes, but provides no other details.\n\n"}
{"id": "730256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730256", "title": "Market value", "text": "Market value\n\nMarket value or OMV (Open Market Valuation) is the price at which an asset would trade in a competitive auction setting. Market value is often used interchangeably with \"open market value\", \"fair value\" or \"fair market value\", although these terms have distinct definitions in different standards, and may or may not differ in some circumstances.\n\nInternational Valuation Standards defines market value as \"the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently, and without compulsion\".\n\nMarket value is a concept distinct from market price, which is “the price at which one can transact”, while market value is “the true underlying value” according to theoretical standards. The concept is most commonly invoked in inefficient markets or disequilibrium situations where prevailing market prices are not reflective of true underlying market value. For market price to equal market value, the market must be informationally efficient and rational expectations must prevail.\n\nRecently, Mocciaro Li Destri, Picone & Minà (2012) have underscored the subtle but important difference between the firms’ capacity to create value through correct operational choices and valid strategies, on the one hand, and the epiphenomenal manifestation of variations in stockholder value on the financial markets (notably on stock markets). In this perspective, they suggest to implement new methodologies able to bring strategy back into financial performance measures.\n\nMarket value is also distinct from fair value in that fair value depends on the parties involved, while market value does not. For example, IVS currently notes fair value \"requires the assessment of the price that is fair between two specific parties taking into account the respective advantages or disadvantages that each will gain from the transaction. Although market value may meet these criteria, this is not necessarily always the case. Fair value is frequently used when undertaking due diligence in corporate transactions, where particular synergies between the two parties may mean that the price that is fair between them is higher than the price that might be obtainable in the wider market. In other words \"special value\" may be generated. Market value requires this element of \"special value\" to be disregarded, but it forms part of the assessment of fair value.\n\nThe term is commonly used in real estate appraisal, since real estate markets are generally considered both informationally and transactionally inefficient. Also, real estate markets are subject to prolonged periods of disequilibrium, such as in contamination situations or other market disruptions.\n\nAppraisals are usually performed under some set of assumptions about transactional markets, and those assumptions are captured in the definition of value used for the appraisal. Commonly, the definition set forth for U.S. federally regulated lending institutions is used, although other definitions may also be used under some circumstances:\n\nIn the USA, Licensed or Certified Apppraisers may be required under state, federal, or local laws to develop appraisals subject to USPAP Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. The Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice requires that when market value is the applicable definition, the appraisal must also contain an analysis of the highest and best use as well as an estimation of exposure time. All states require mandatory licensure of appraisers.\n\nIt is important to note that USPAP does not require that all real estate appraisals be performed based on a single definition of market value. Indeed, there are frequent situations when appraisers are called upon to appraise properties using other value definitions. If a value other than market value is appropriate, USPAP only requires that the appraiser provide both the definition of value being used and the citation for that definition.\n\nMarket value is the most commonly used type of value in real estate appraisal in the United States because it is required for all federally regulated mortgage transactions, and because it has been accepted by US courts as valid. However, real estate appraisers use many other definitions of value in other situations.\n\nLiquidation value is the most probable price that a specified interest in real property is likely to bring under all of the following conditions:\n\n\nThis value definition differs from the previous one in that it assumes an orderly transition, and not \"extreme compulsion\".\n\nFor land acquisitions by or funded by U.S. federal agencies, a slightly different definition applies:\n\nWhen a real estate appraiser works with a business valuation appraiser (and perhaps an equipment and machinery appraiser) to provide a value of the combination of a business and the real estate used for that business, the specific market value is called \"going concern value\". It recognizes that the combined market value may be different from the sum of the separate values: \"The market value of all the tangible and intangible assets of an established operating business with an indefinite life, as if sold in aggregate.\"\n\nUse value takes into account a specific use for the subject property and does not attempt to ascertain the highest and best use of the real estate. For example, the appraisal may focus on the contributory value of the real estate to a business enterprise.\n\nSome property tax jurisdictions allow agricultural use appraisals for farmland. Also, current IRS estate tax regulations allow land under an interim agricultural use to be valued according to its current use regardless of development potential.\n\nStability and economic growth are two factors that international investors are seeking when considering investment options. A country offering economic value amongst its other incentives attracts investment funds. A political unrest situation can be the cause of not only loss of confidence, but a reduced value in currency, creating transfer of capital to other and more stable sources.\n\nIn the event of a government printing currency to discharge a portion of a significant amount of debt, the supply of money is increased, with an ultimate reduction in its value, aggravated by inflation. Furthermore, should a government be unable to service its deficit by way of selling domestic bonds, thereby increasing the supply of money, it must increase the volume of saleable securities to foreigners, which in turn creates a decrease in their value.\n\nA significant debt can prove a concern for foreign investors, should they believe there is a risk of the country defaulting on its obligations. They will be reluctant to purchase securities subject to that particular currency, if there is a perceived, significant risk of default. It is for this reason that the debt rating of a country; for example, as determined by Moody's or Standard & Poor's is a crucial indicator of its exchange rate.\n\nCurrency values and exchange rates play a crucial part in the rate of return on investments. Value for an investor, is the exchange rate of the currency which, contains the bulk of a portfolio, determining its real return. A declining value in the exchange rate has the effect of decreasing the purchasing power of income and capital gains, derived from any returns. In addition, other income factors such as interest rates, inflation and even capital gains from domestic securities, are influenced by the influential and complex factors, of the exchange rate.\n\nThe case of Luxmoore-May and Another v. Messenger May Baverstock [1990] 1 W.L.R. 1009 shows us the legal interpretation of market value: \"The measure of damage in this case is, I conclude, the difference between what the foxhounds in fact realised consequent on the defendants' breach of contract and what was their true open market value at that time. What better guide could there be to that value than the price at which these paintings happened to be knocked down at Sotheby's so shortly afterwards? The price which the international art market was willing to pay was surely prima facie the best evidence of the foxhounds' value.\" Also the equilibrium of the qualibrium is hard to distinguish between.\n\n"}
{"id": "20972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20972", "title": "Marxism–Leninism", "text": "Marxism–Leninism\n\nIn political science, Marxism–Leninism is the ideology combining Marxist socio-economic theory and Leninist political praxis, which was the official ideology of the Soviet Union, of the political parties of the Communist International, and of Stalinist political parties. The purpose of Marxism–Leninism is the revolutionary development of a capitalist state into a socialist state, effected by the leadership of a vanguard party of professional revolutionaries from the working class (the proletariat). The socialist state is realised by way of the dictatorship of the proletariat, which determines policy with democratic centralism (diversity in discussion and unity in action).\n\nPolitically, Marxism–Leninism establishes the communist party as the primary social force to organise society as a socialist state, which is the intermediate stage of socio-economic development towards a communist society—a stateless and classless society that features common ownership of the means of production; accelerated industrialisation and concentrated development of science and technology in support of the productive forces of society; and nationalisation of the land and natural resources of the country and public control of societal institutions.\n\nIn the late 1920s, Joseph Stalin established ideologic orthodoxy in the Soviet Union and among the Communist International with his definition of the term \"Marxism–Leninism\", which redefined the theories of Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin and political praxis for the exclusive benefit of the Soviet Union. In the late 1930s, after publication of \"The History of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Bolsheviks)\" (1938), Stalin's official textbook on the subject, the term Marxism–Leninism became common, political usage among communists and non-communists.\n\nCritical of the Stalinist model of communism in the Soviet Union, the American Marxist Raya Dunayevskaya and the Italian Marxist Amadeo Bordiga dismissed Marxism–Leninism as a type of state capitalism, stating that (i) Marx had identified state ownership of the means of production as a form of state capitalism—except under certain socio-economic conditions, which usually do not exist in Marxist–Leninist states; (ii) that the Marxist dictatorship of the proletariat is a form of democracy, therefore the single-party rule of a vanguard party is undemocratic; and (iii) that Marxism–Leninism is neither Marxism nor Leninism, nor a philosophic synthesis, but an artificial term that Stalin used to personally determine what is communism and what is not communism.\n\nWithin five years of the death of Lenin, in 1924, Joseph Stalin was the government of the Soviet Union, and pragmatically abided and flouted the socialist principles of Lenin and Marx as political expediencies to realise his plans plans for Russia and for world socialism. To justify his régime, Stalin used the book \"Concerning Questions of Leninism\" (1926), his compilation of Marx and Lenin, which presented Marxism–Leninism as a separate ideology that featured an omniscient leader, later in his régime, Stalinism (Marxism–Leninism) was the official state ideology of the Soviet Union.\n\nAs Stalin's opposition within the communist party and the soviet government, the Trotskyists argued that the Marxist–Leninist ideology of Stalinism contradicted Marxism and Leninism, and thus was illegitimate socialist philosophy. To differentiate themselves from Stalin, the Trotskyists used the term Bolshevik–Leninism, Trotsky's ideology of communism. Moreover, in Marxist political discourse the term \"Marxism–Leninism\" has two usages: (i) praise of Stalin, by Stalinists who believe Stalin successfully developed Lenin's legacy; and (ii) criticism of Stalin, by Stalinists who repudiate Stalin's repressions.\n\nConsequent to the Sino-Soviet split in 1956, the communist party of each country, of the People's Republic of China and of the Soviet Union, claimed to be the sole, ideological heir-and-successor to Marxism–Leninism—and thus ideological leader of world communism. In China, the official History of the People's Republic of China represents Mao Zedong's practical application and adaptation of Marxism–Leninism to Chinese conditions as a fundamental up-dating of Leninism which is applicable worldwide—consequently, Maoism (the Thought of Mao Zedong) was the official state ideology of the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn the Chinese sphere of geopolitical influence, the Sino–Albanian split (1972–1978)—caused by Albanian Communist rejection of the Chinese Communists' \"Realpolitik\" of Sino–American rapprochement (Mao and Richard Nixon meeting) as an ideological betrayal of Mao's own Three Worlds Theory—appeared as a lessening of Mao's commitment to proletarian internationalism. Among Communists, those contradictions between the orthodoxy of Maoism and Mao's pragmatism usually compelled the Marxist–Leninists to either minimise or repudiate the role of Maoism in China's actions in the International Communist Movement, wherein Mao had favoured the Party of Labour of Albania and advocated Stalinism, the stricter ideological adherence to the example of Stalin.\n\nAs revolutionary praxis, Maoism is the basic ideology of communist parties politically sympathetic to the Communist Party of China. Since the death of Mao in 1976, the Maoist Communist Party of Peru (Sendero Luminoso) coined the term Marxism–Leninism–Maoism because Maoism is the more modern Marxism, adaptable to local conditions in Third-world South America. In 1977, the native Korean ideology of \"Juche\" (self-reliance) replaced Marxism–Leninism as the official state ideology of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. In contemporary socialist states, Marxism–Leninism is the official state ideology of the Republic of Cuba, the Lao People's Democratic Republic and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Marxism–Leninism in the official state ideology of the People's Republic of China as Maoism.\n\nThe Marxist–Leninist state is a one-party state wherein the communist party is the political vanguard who guides the proletariat and the working classes in establishing the social, economic and cultural foundations of a socialist state, a stage of historical development en route to a communist society.\n\nIn the socialist state, government is exercised with the dictatorship of the proletariat, which defines, implements and realises policy by way of democratic centralism. The administrative offices and posts of government are filled with people elected at the local, regional and national levels, usually by direct election; however, indirect election also features in the Marxist–Leninist praxis of the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Cuba and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1943–1992).\n\nThe goal of Marxist–Leninist political economy is the emancipation of men and women from the dehumanisation caused by mechanistic work that is psychologically alienating (without work–life balance) in exchange for wages, namely the limited financial-access to the material necessities of life (i.e. food and shelter). That emancipation from poverty (material necessity) would maximise individual liberty by enabling men and women to pursue their interests and innate talents (artistic, intellectual, industrial, etc.) whilst working by choice without the economic coercion of poverty. In the communist society of upper-stage economic development, the elimination of alienating labour (mechanistic work) depends upon technological advances that improve the means of production and distribution.\n\nTo meet the material needs of society, the Marxist–Leninist state uses a planned economy to co-ordinate the means of production and of distribution to supply the goods and services required throughout society and the national economy; and the worker's wages are determined according to the type of skills and the type of work he or she can perform within the national economy. Moreover, the economic value of the goods and services produced is based upon their use value (as material objects) and not upon the cost of production or the exchange value.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Bolshevik government's economic development realised the rapid industrialisation of Russia with pragmatic programs of social engineering that transplanted peasant populations to the cities, where they became industrial workers, who then became the workforce of the new factories and industries. Likewise, the farmer populations worked the system of collective farms to grow food to feed the industrial workers in the industrialised cities. Hence, the Marxist–Leninist society of Russia in the 1930s featured austere equality based upon asceticism, egalitarianism and self-sacrifice—yet the Bolshevik Party recognised human nature and semi-officially allowed some consumerism (limited, small-scale capitalism) to stimulate the economy of Russia.\n\nOriginally, the socialist society was conceptually equal to the communist society. In defining the differences of political economy between socialism and communism, Lenin instead explained their conceptual similarity to Marx's descriptions of the lower-stage and the upper-stage of economic development; that immediately after a proletarian revolution in the lower-stage (socialist) society, the economy must be based upon the individual labour contributed by men and women; and later in the upper-stage (communist) society, the economy would be based upon requiring labour and paying wages from each according to his ability, to each according to his need.\n\nTo develop a communist society, the state provides for the national welfare with universal healthcare, free public education and the social benefits necessary to increase the productivity of the workers. As part of the planned economy, the welfare state is meant to develop the proletariat's education (academic and technical) and their class consciousness (political education) to facilitate their contextual understanding of the historical development of communism as presented in Marx's theory of history.\n\nThe reformation of family law eliminates patriarchy from the legal system, which facilitates the emancipation of women from traditional social inferiority and economic exploitation. The reformation of civil law eliminates the disproportionate political and economic powers of the bourgeoisie and voids the private property-status of the means of production. The educational system imparts the social norms for a self-disciplined and self-fulfilling way of life, by which the citizens establish the social order necessary for realizing a communist society.\n\nCultural policy modernises social relations among the citizenry by eliminating the capitalist value system that divided people into the closed social classes of bourgeois society. The cultural changes required for establishing a communist society are effected through education and agitprop (agitation and propaganda), which reinforce communal values. The purpose of the educational and cultural policies of the Marxist–Leninist state is the elimination of the societal atomisation—anomie and social alienation—caused by cultural backwardness, which facilitates the development of the New Soviet man, an educated and cultured citizen possessed of a proletarian class consciousness who is oriented towards the social cohesion necessary for developing a communist society.\n\nThe Marxist–Leninist world view is atheist, wherein all human activity results from human volition, and not the will of supernatural beings (gods, goddesses, and demons) who have direct agency in the public and private affairs of human society. The tenets of the Soviet Union's national policy of Marxist–Leninist atheism originated from the philosophies of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831) and Ludwig Feuerbach (1804–1872), and of Karl Marx (1818–1883) and Lenin (1870–1924).\n\nAs a basis of Marxism–Leninism, the philosophy of materialism (the physical universe exists independently of human consciousness) is applied as dialectical materialism (a philosophy of science and Nature) to examine the socio-economic relations among people and things, as parts of a dynamic, material world that is unlike the immaterial world of Metaphysics. The Soviet astrophysicist Vitaly Ginzburg said that, ideologically, the \"Bolshevik communists were not merely atheists, but, according to Lenin's terminology, \"militant atheists\"\" in excluding religion from the social mainstream, from education, and from government.\n\nThe Marxist–Leninist approach to international relations derives from the analyses (political and economic, sociological and geopolitical) that Lenin presented in the essay \"Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism \" (1917). Parting from and developing the philosophical bases of Marxism—(i) that human history is the history of class struggle, between a ruling class and an exploited class; (ii) that capitalism creates antagonistic social classes: the exploiters, the bourgeoisie; and the exploited, the proletariat; (iii) that capitalism employs nationalist war to further private economic expansion; (iv) that socialism is an economic system that voids social classes through public ownership, and so will eliminate the economic causes of war; and (v) that once the state (socialist or communist) withers away, so shall international relations wither away because they are projections of national economic forces—Lenin said that the capitalists' exhaustion of domestic sources of investment profit, by way of price-fixing trusts and cartels, then prompts the same capitalists to export investment capital to undeveloped countries to finance the exploitation of natural resources and the native populations, to create new markets. That the capitalists' control of national politics ensures the government's safeguarding of colonial investments and the consequent imperial competition for economic supremacy provokes international wars to protect their national interests.\n\nIn the vertical perspective (social-class relations) of Marxism–Leninism, the internal and international affairs of a country are a political continuum, not separate realms of human activity, which is the philosophic opposite of the horizontal perspectives (country-to-country) of the liberal and the realist approaches to international relations. Therefore, colonial imperialism is the inevitable consequence in the course of economic relations among countries when the domestic price-fixing of monopoly capitalism has voided profitable competition in the capitalist homeland. As such, the ideology of New Imperialism—rationalised as a civilising mission—allowed the exportation of high-profit investment capital to undeveloped countries with uneducated, native populations (sources of cheap labour), plentiful raw materials for exploitation (factors for manufacture), and a colonial market to consume the surplus production, which the capitalist homeland cannot consume; the example is the European Scramble for Africa (1881–1914), which was safeguarded by the national military.\n\nTo secure the colonies—foreign sources of new capital-investment-profit—the imperialist state seeks either political or military control of the limited resources (natural and human); the First World War (1914–1918) resulted from such geopolitical conflicts among the empires of Europe over colonial spheres of influence. For the colonised working classes who create the wealth (goods and services), the elimination of war for natural resources (access, control and exploitation) is resolved by overthrowing the militaristic capitalist state and establishing a socialist state as a peaceful world economy is feasible only by proletarian revolutions that overthrow systems of political economy based upon the exploitation of labour.\n\nThe philosophy of Marxism–Leninism originated as the pro-active, political praxis of the Bolshevik (Majority) faction, the left-wing of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP). Lenin's leadership made the Bolshevik faction the RSDLP's vanguard, i.e. committed, professional revolutionaries who elected leaders and determined policy by way of democratic centralism. The Bolsheviks' pragmatic commitment to achieving revolution was their practical advantage in out-manoeuvring political parties that advocate social democracy without a plan of action, thus the Bolshevik Party successfully assumed command of the October Revolution in 1917.\n\nTwelve years before the October Revolution, Lenin and the Bolsheviks had failed to assume control of the February Revolution of 1905, because the centres of revolutionary action were too far apart for proper political co-ordination. To generate revolutionary momentum—from Tsarist violence such as the killings on Bloody Sunday (22 January 1905)—the Bolsheviks advocated militant action, that the workers use political violence to compel the bourgeois middle classes (the nobility, the gentry, the bourgeoisie) to join the proletarian revolution to overthrow the absolute monarchy of the Tsar of Russia.\n\nDespite secret police persecution by the \"Okhrana\" (Department for Protecting the Public Security and Order), émigré Bolsheviks returned to Russia to agitate, organise and lead; and when revolutionary fervour failed in 1907, returned to exile (Lenin to Switzerland). The failure of the February Revolution (1905–1907) exiled the Bolshevik (Majority) and the Mensheviks (Minority), the Socialist Revolutionaries and the anarchists from Imperial Russia—a political defeat aggravated by Tsar Nicholas II's agreement to reforming government. In practice, the formalities of the State Duma, the political plurality of a multi-party system of elections; and the Russian Constitution of 1906, were piecemeal social concessions that favoured only the aristocracy, the gentry and the bourgeoisie—but they did not resolve the malnutrition, illiteracy and poverty of the proletarian majority of Russia. In Swiss exile, Lenin developed Marx's philosophy and extrapolated colonial revolt as a reinforcement of proletarian revolution in Europe. Five years later in 1912, Lenin resolved a factional challenge to his ideological leadership of the RSDLP by the Forward Group in the party by usurping the all-party congress and then transformed the RSDLP into the Bolshevik Party.\n\nAs promised to the Russian peoples in October 1917, the Bolsheviks quit Russia's participation in the Great War, on 3 March 1918, unlike the European socialists who chose bellicose nationalism rather than anti-war internationalism, consequent to the Internationalist–defencist schism among themselves. To that effect, a small group of anti-war socialist leaders, including Rosa Luxemburg, Karl Liebknecht, and Lenin, denounced the European socialists' forsaking the solidarity of working-class internationalism for patriotic war. In the essay \"Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism\" (1917), Lenin explained that capitalist expansion leads to colonial imperialism, which is regulated with wars—such as the Great War among the empires of Europe. Late in 1917—to relieve strategic pressures from the Western Front (4 August 1914–11 November 1918)—Imperial Germany impelled Imperial Russia's withdrawal from the war's Eastern Front (17 August 1914–3 March 1918) by sending Lenin and his Bolshevik cohort in a diplomatically sealed train to realise socialist revolution in Russia.\n\nIn March 1917, the abdication of Tsar Nicholas II led to the Russian Provisional Government (March–July 1917), who then proclaimed the Russian Republic (September–November 1917). Later, in the October Revolution, the Bolshevik's \"coup d'état\" against the Provisional Government resulted in their establishment of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (1917–1991); yet parts of Russia remained occupied by the counter-revolutionary White Movement of Tsarist and anti-communist military commanders who had united to form the White Army to fight the Russian Civil War (1917–1922) against the Bolshevik régime. Despite the White–Red civil war, Russia remained a combatant in the Great War (1914–1918), which the Bolshevik's had quit with the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (3 March 1918), which then provoked the Allied Intervention to the Russian Civil War (1918–1925) by the armies of seventeen countries, featuring Great Britain, France, and Italy, the United States and Imperial Japan.\n\nIn 1918, the Bolsheviks consolidated government power by expelling the Mensheviks and the Socialist Revolutionaries from the soviets. The Bolshevik government then established the \"Cheka\" secret police to eliminate anti–Bolshevik opposition in Russia. Initial opposition to the Bolshevik régime was strong, for not having resolved the food shortages and material poverty of the Russian peoples, as they had promised in October 1917; from that social discontent, the Cheka reported 118 uprisings, including the Kronstadt rebellion (7–17 March 1921).\n\nThe Bolshevik government introduced limited nationalisation of the means of production, which had been private property of the Russian aristocracy during the Tsarist monarchy. To fulfil the promised redistribution of Russia's arable land, Lenin encouraged the peasantry to reclaim their farmlands from the aristocrats and so ensured the peasantry's political loyalty to the Bolshevik Party. In mid-1918, to overcome the civil war's economic interruption, the War Communism policy featured a regulated market, state-control of the means of distribution and the Decree on Nationalisation of large-scale farms, which requisitioned grain to feed industrial workers in the cities and the Red Army in the field, all while fighting the White Army, who was seeking to re-establish the Romanov dynasty as absolute monarchs of Russia. Politically, the forced grain-requisitions discouraged peasants from farming, which resulted in reduced-harvests and food-shortages, which in turn provoked labour strikes and food riots. With the economic chaos—caused by the Bolshevik government's voiding the monetary economy—the Russian people replaced with barter and the black market. \n\nIn 1921, the New Economic Policy restored some private enterprise to animate the Russian economy. As part of Lenin's pragmatic compromise with external financial interests in 1918, Bolshevik state capitalism temporarily returned 91 per cent of industry to private ownership—until the Soviet Russians learned to operate and administrate said industries. In that vein, Lenin explained that developing socialism in Russia would proceed according to the material and socio-economic conditions of Russia and not as described by Marx in the 19th century. Lenin's pragmatic explanation was the following: \"Our poverty is so great that we cannot, at one stroke, restore full-scale factory, state, socialist production\". To overcome the lack of educated Russians who could operate and administrate industry, Lenin advocated the development of a technical intelligentsia who would propel the industrial development of Russia to self-sufficiency.\n\nThe principal obstacles to Russian economic development and modernisation were great material poverty and the lack of modern technology, which conditions orthodox Marxism considered unfavourable to communist revolution; and that agricultural Russia was right for developing capitalism, but wrong for the development of socialism. The 1921–1924 period was tumultuous in Russia, with the simultaneous occurrence of economic recovery, famine (1921–1922) and a financial crisis (1924). By 1924, the Bolshevik government had achieved much economic progress and by 1926 the production levels of the Soviet Union's economy had risen to the production levels registered in 1913.\n\nElsewhere, the successful October Revolution in Russia facilitated communist revolution in Imperial Germany and in Hungary during the 1918–1920 period. In Berlin, the German government and their \"Freikorps\" mercenaries fought and defeated the Spartacist uprising (4–5 January 1919), which began as a general strike; and in Munich, likewise fought and defeated the Bavarian Soviet Republic (April 1919). In Hungary, the workers proclaimed the Hungarian Soviet Republic (March–August 1919), which was defeated by the royal armies of the Kingdom of Romania and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the army of Czechoslovakia. In Asia, successful Mongolian communist revolution established the Mongolian People's Republic (1924–1992).\n\nIn his political testament (December 1922) to the Communist Party, Lenin ordered Stalin removed from being the party's General Secretary and replaced with \"some other person who is superior to Stalin only in one respect, namely, in being more tolerant, more loyal, more polite, and more attentive to comrades\". At his death on 21 January 1924, Lenin's testament was read aloud to the Central Committee of the party, but enough committeemen believed in Stalin's political rehabilitation in 1923 and ignored Lenin's order to remove Stalin.\n\nConsequent to personally spiteful disputes about the praxis of Leninism, to the October Revolution veterans, Lev Kamenev and Grigory Zinoviev, the true, ideological threat to the integrity of the Communist Party was Trotsky—a personally charismatic political-leader; the commanding officer of the Red Army in the civil war; and revolutionary partner of the dead Lenin. To thwart Trotsky's likely election to head the Communist Party, Stalin, Kamenev and Zinoviev formed a \"Troika\" (Triumvirate), wherein Stalin was General Secretary of the Communist Party—the \"de facto\" centre of power in the party and the country.\n\nThe direction of the Communist Party was decided in the confrontation of politics and personality—between Stalin's \"Troika\" and Trotsky—over which Marxist policy to pursue, namely Trotsky's policy of permanent revolution or Stalin's policy of socialism in one country. Permanent revolution featured rapid industrialisation of the economy, the collectivisation of private farmlands and the Soviet Union's promotion of worldwide communist revolution. Socialism in one country featured moderate-pace national development and the establishment of economic and diplomatic relations with other countries in order to increase international trade with and foreign investment in the Soviet Union.\n\nTo politically isolate and oust Trotsky from the party, Stalin expediently advocated the politics of socialism in one country—to which he was indifferent. In 1925, the 14th Communist Party Congress approved Stalin's policy and Trotsky was politically defeated as a possible rival leader of the Communist Party and the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the 1925–1927 period, Stalin dissolved the \"Troika\" and disowned the moderate Kamenev and Zinoviev for an expedient alliance with the equally opportunistic Nikolai Bukharin, Alexei Rykov (Premier of Russia, 1924–1929; Premier of the Soviet Union, 1924–1930) and Mikhail Tomsky (leader of the All-Russian Central Council of Trade Unions)—the most right-wing Revolution-era Bolsheviks in the party. The 1927 Communist Party Conference endorsed Stalin's socialism in one country as the national policy for the Soviet Union and expelled Trotsky, Kamenev and Zinoviev from the party's Politburo.\n\nIn 1929, Stalin had assumed control (personal and political) of the Communist Party and the Soviet Union proper by way of deception and administrative acumen. By then, the Stalinist régime of socialism in one country had associated revolutionary Bolshevism with the harsh socio-economic policies that a centralised state required to realise the rapid industrialisation of the cities and the collectivisation of agriculture in Russia as well as to subordinate the national interests of the world's communist parties to the geopolitical interests of the Soviet Communist Party.\n\nIn the 1929–1932 period of the first five-year plan, Stalin effected the dekulakization of Russian farmlands, a politically radical and harsh dispossession of the kulak class of peasant-landlords, about which Bukharin, Rykov and Tomsky had moderate-action recommendations to ameliorate the policy. Stalin took umbrage and accused them of un-communist betrayals of Marxism and Leninism. From that implicit accusation of ideological deviation, Stalin then accused the three October Revolution veterans of plotting against the party and compelled their resignations from public office and from their posts in the Politburo.\n\nTo complete his purge of the Communist Party, Stalin then exiled Trotsky from the Soviet Union in 1929. From 1929 onwards, internal opposition to Stalin's régime created Trotskyism (Bolshevik–Leninism), which was outlawed as ideological deviance from Marxism–Leninism, the state ideology of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the 1929–1941 period, Stalin's elimination of Bolshevik rivals ended democracy in the Communist Party and replaced them with his personal control of the party's institutions. The ranks and files of the Communist Party increased with members from the trade unions and from the factories, whom he controlled because there were no other Bolsheviks to contradict Stalin's version of Marxism–Leninism. In 1936, the Soviet Union adopted a new, political constitution which ended weighted-voting preferences for workers and promulgated universal suffrage for every man and woman older than 18 years of age; and organised the soviets (councils of workers) into two legislatures (Supreme Soviet): (i) the Soviet of the Union (representing electoral districts); and (ii) the Soviet of Nationalities (representing the ethnic groups of the country); and by 1939 he had either killed or expelled from the Communist Party all of the Bolsheviks from the October Revolution era.\n\nUnder guise of governing by the principles of Marxism–Leninism, Stalin's dictatorial régime made the Soviet Union a police state unlike Lenin's socialist state of the Bolshevik period. Extensive personal control over the men who were the Communist Party licensed Stalin to use political violence to eliminate anyone who might be a threat—real, potential, or imagined.\n\nAs an administrator, Stalin governed the Soviet Union by controlling the formulation of national policy and delegated implementation to subordinate Communist Party functionaries. Such freedom of action allowed local communist functionaries much discretion to interpret the intent of orders from Moscow, which allowed their corruption. To Stalin, the correction of such abuses of authority and economic corruption were responsibility of the secret police, the NKVD (People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs). With the Great Purge (1936–1938), Stalin rid himself of internal enemies in the party and rid Russia of every counter-revolutionary, reactionary and socially dangerous man and woman who might offer legitimate political opposition to Marxism–Leninism. In the 1937–1938 period, the NKVD arrested 1.5 million people from every stratum of the Communist Party and of soviet society and killed 681,692 people for political reasons. To provide manpower (intellectual and manual) to realise the construction projects for Stalin's rapid industrialisation of Russia, the NKVD established the \"Gulag\" system of forced-labour camps for criminal convicts and political dissidents, for artists and intellectuals, for homosexual people and religious anti-communists.\n\nFive-year plans for the national economy of the Soviet Union achieved the rapid industrialisation (coal, iron and steel, electricity, petroleum and so on) and the collectivisation of agriculture—achieving 23.6% collectivisation within one year (1930) and 98% collectivisation within twelve years (1941). In the 1920s—the time of the Russian Civil War (1917–1922) and the seventeen foreign armies of the Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War (1918–1925)—as the revolutionary vanguard of the nation the Communist Party had organised Russian society to realise the rapid industrialisation programs as defence against Western interference with Bolshevik Russia.\n\nRapid industrialisation accelerated the Russians' sociological transition from the poverty of Tsarist serfdom to the relative plenty of Communist self-determination as peasants became urban citizens. During the 1930s, the Marxist–Leninist economic régime modernised Russia from an illiterate, peasant society under Tsarist monarchy to a literate society of farmers and industrial workers under socialism. Unemployment was almost nil.\n\nIn 1934, Stalin's development of Soviet society contradicted and then replaced, the social, cultural and intellectual freedoms of Lenin's Bolshevik period. In education, traditional Russian authoritarianism (harsh discipline, school uniforms and so on) replaced pedagogic experimentation and relaxed social conduct; mental conformity, rather than intellectual liberty. Culturally, the Russian arts were subordinated to the ideological limitations of socialist realism, a form of Russian patriarchy admired by the traditionalist Stalin. Organised religion was excluded from the political mainstream of Soviet society and was repressed whenever a religious organisation openly opposed the official atheism of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1933, the Marxist–Leninist geopolitical perspective was that the Soviet Union was surrounded by capitalist and anti-communist enemies, for which reason the election of Adolf Hitler and the concomitant Nazi Party government in Germany initially resulted in the Soviet Union severing political and diplomatic relations established in the 1920s. In 1938, Stalin turned to accommodate Czechoslovakia and the West in defence against Hitler's threat of pre-emptive warfare to \"recover\" the Sudetenland, the German peoples and lands within Czecho.\n\nTo challenge Nazi Germany's bid for European supremacy and hegemony, Stalin promoted anti-fascist fronts throughout Europe with socialists, democrats and so on and entered political agreements with France to counter Nazi Germany in the west of Europe. After the Nazis bluffed the British into the Munich Agreement (29 September 1938) that allowed the German occupation of Czechoslovakia (1938–1945), Stalin reversed his anti-German foreign policy and adopted pro-German policies. In 1939, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany agreed to both a Treaty of Non-aggression between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, 23 August 1939) and agreed to jointly invade and partition Poland by which Nazi Germany started World War II on 1 September 1939.\n\nIn the 1941–1942 period of the Great Patriotic War, the German invasion of the Soviet Union (Operation Barbarossa, 22 June 1941) was ineffectively opposed by the Red Army, who were poorly led, ill-trained and under-equipped and so fought poorly and suffered great losses of dead and wounded and prisoners of war. Such Soviet military weakness was one consequence of the Great Purge of senior officers and career soldiers. The extensive and greatly effective Nazi attack threatened the territorial integrity of the Soviet Union and the political integrity of Stalin's Marxist–Leninist state because the Nazis were initially welcomed as liberators by nationalist, anti-communist and anti-Soviet populations in the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nThe nationalists' collaboration with the anti-communist Nazi occupier lasted until the \"SS\" and the \"Einsatzgruppen\" began their \"Lebensraum\" killings, i.e. the genocide of the Jewish communities and the systematic extermination of communists and civil leaders to realise the ethnic cleansing of Soviet lands for German colonisation. In response, Stalin ordered the Red Army to fight campaigns of total war against the exterminating invaders of Russia. Hitler's attack against his erstwhile Communist ally, realigned Stalin's policies and priorities from the repression of internal enemies to the existential defence of Russia against an external enemy, namely the aggressively anti-Communist Third Reich. The Nazi attack compelled Stalin to a pragmatic alliance with the Western Powers in common front against the Axis Powers—Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Imperial Japan.\n\nElsewhere in the countries invaded by the Axis powers, the native communist party usually led armed resistance (guerrilla warfare and urban guerrilla warfare) against military occupation. In Asia, Stalin ordered the Communist Party of China, led by Mao Zedong, to abandon the Chinese Civil War (1937–1941) and collaborate with the anti-communist Kuomintang as the Second United Front in the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–1945), the occupation of China. In Mediterranean Europe, the Communist Yugoslav Partisans, led by Josip Broz Tito, effectively resisted the Nazi and Fascist occupation. In the 1943–1944 period, Tito's Partisans liberated territories with Red Army assistance and established the Communist political authority that became the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn 1943, the Red Army began to repel the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union, especially at the five-month Battle of Stalingrad (23 August 1942–2 February 1943) and at the eleven-day Battle of Kursk (5–16 April 1943); and afterwards repelled the Nazi and Fascist occupation armies from Russia and the countries of Eastern Europe until decisive defeat in Germany proper, with the Berlin Strategic Offensive Operation (16 April–2 May 1945). On concluding the Great Patriotic War (1941–1945), the Soviet Union was a military superpower who had a say in the geopolitical order of the world. In that vein and in accordance with the three-power Yalta Agreement (4–11 February 1945), the Soviet Union purged native Fascist collaborators from the Eastern European countries occupied by the Axis Powers and afterwards installed native Communist governments to establish a geographic buffer-zone of satellite states to protect the borders of Russia.\n\nUpon Allied victory concluding the Second World War (1939–1945), the expediently suppressed, pre-war geopolitical rivalries and ideological tensions that existed among the Allies resumed, and broke their anti-fascist war-time alliance into the Anti-communist Western Bloc and the Communist Eastern Bloc. The renewed geopolitical competition for regional hegemony resulted in the Cold War (1945–1991) — a protracted state of military and diplomatic tension between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., which often threatened war.\n\nIn Europe, the events that precipitated the Cold War were the Soviet and Yugoslav, Bulgarian and Albanian military interventions to the Greek Civil War (1944–1949), in behalf of the Greek Communists; and the Berlin Blockade (1948–1949) by the Soviet Union. In continental Asia, the event that precipitated the Cold War was the resumption of the Chinese Civil War (1930–34; 1945–1950) fought between the anti-communist Kuomintang and the Chinese Communist Party; after the military defeat of the Kuomintang, and expelling General Chiang Kai-shek to the island of Taiwan, Mao Zedong proclaimed and established the People's Republic of China (1 October 1949).\n\nIn Eastern Asia, the Cold War produced the Korean War (1950–1953), the first land-war in continental Asia fought between the Eastern Bloc and the Western Bloc, which resulted from dual origins: (i) the nationalist Koreans' post-war resumption of the Korean Civil War; and (ii) an imperial proxy war for regional hegemony, sponsored by the Soviet Union and the U.S. The international response to the North Korean invasion of South Korea was realised by the United Nations Security Council who voted for war—despite the absent Soviet Union—and authorised the intervention of an international military expedition to expel the northern invaders from the south of Korea, and thus restore the geopolitical \"status quo ante\" of the post–WWII division of Korea at the 38th Parallel of global latitude, by the Soviets and the Americans. Consequent to Chinese military intervention in behalf of Communist North Korea, the magnitude of the infantry warfare reached operational and geographic stalemate; afterwards, the shooting war was ended with the Korean Armistice Agreement (27 July 1953); and the superpower Cold War in Asia then resumed as the Korean Demilitarized Zone.\n\nThe geopolitics of the Eastern bloc countries under the hegemony of Stalinist Russia featured an official-and-personal style of socialist diplomacy that failed Stalin and Tito, and led to the Tito–Stalin Split, when Tito said \"No.\" to subordinating Yugoslavia to Russia. Circumstance and cultural personality aggravated the matter into an official diplomatic break, the Yugoslav–Soviet Split in 1948. The break between the Marxist-Leninist communists, Tito and Stalin, resulted from Tito's rejection of Stalin's political demand that he subordinate Socialist Yugoslavia to the geopolitical agenda (economic and military) of the Soviet Union, i.e. Tito at Stalin's disposal.\n\nStalin punished the refusal by denouncing Tito as a bad communist, an ideological revisionist of Marxism–Leninism; by denouncing Socialist Yugoslavia's practice of Titoism as socialism deviated from the cause of world communism; and by expelling the Yugoslav communists from the Communist Information Bureau (Cominform). The break from Eastern-bloc Stalinism allowed the development of Titoism, the Yugoslav variety of Marxism–Leninism that allowed doing business with the capitalist West to develop the socialist economy, and the establishment of Socialist Yugoslavia's diplomatic and commercial relations with countries of the Eastern and Western blocs; international relations that matured into the Non-Aligned Movement (1961) of countries without political allegiance to any power bloc.\n\nAt the death of Stalin in 1953, Nikita Khrushchev became leader of the Soviet Union and of the CPSU (Communist Party of the Soviet Union), and then consolidated an anti-Stalinist government. Three years later, in a secret meeting at the 20th congress of the CPSU, Khruschev denounced Stalin and Stalinism in the speech \"On the Cult of Personality and its Consequences\" (25 February 1956) in which he specified and condemned Stalin's dictatorial excesses and abuses of power, such as the Great purge (1936–38) and the cult of personality. Khrushchev thus introduced the de-Stalinisation of the Party and of the Soviet Union, which he realised with the dismantling of the Gulag archipelago of forced-labour camps and freeing the prisoners; allowing Soviet civil society greater political freedom of expression, especially for public intellectuals of the Intelligentsia, such as the novelist Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, whose literature obliquely criticised Stalin and the Stalinist police state. De-Stalinization also ended Stalin's national-purpose policy of socialism in one country, which was replaced with proletarian internationalism, by way of which Khrushchev re-committed the Soviet Union to permanent revolution to realise world communism. In that geopolitical vein, Khrushchev presented de-Stalinization as the restoration of Leninism as the official state ideology of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the 1960s, the People's Republic of China developed Maoism (the Mao Zedong Thought) as a Chinese variant of Marxism–Leninism which later provoked ideological, political and nationalist tensions between the Soviet Union and China about the correct orthodox-interpretation of Marxist–Leninist ideology. Given the different stages of Russian and Chinese development, the Communists' intractable ideological arguments provoked the Sino-Soviet split (1956–1966).\n\nAfterwards, China pursued \"détente\" with the United States as a challenge to the Soviet Union for the leadership of the international communist movement. China's pragmatic overture permitted geopolitical rapprochement and facilitated President Nixon's 1972 visit to China, which subsequently ended the American policy of \"two Chinas\" when the United States sponsored the People's Republic of China to replace the Republic of China (Taiwan) to representing the Chinese people at the United Nations. The People's Republic of China then took a seat in the Security Council.\n\nIn the post-Mao period, Deng Xiaoping (1982–1987) effected policies of economic liberalisation which resulted in continual economic growth for the country. The ideological justification is socialism with Chinese characteristics, the adaption of Russian Marxism–Leninism to China.\n\nIn Latin America, Communist revolutions based upon Marxism–Leninism occurred in Bolivia, Cuba, El Salvador, Grenada, Nicaragua, Peru and Uruguay. In 1959, the Cuban Revolution, led by Fidel Castro and Ché Guevara, overthrew the régime (1925–1959) of Fulgencio Batista to establish the Republic of Cuba, a Communist state recognised by the Soviet Union. In response, the United States attempted a coup d'état against the Castro government, such as the unsuccessful Bay of Pigs invasion (April 1961), by anti-communist Cuban exiles, sponsored by the CIA. The next year, there occurred the Cuban missile crisis (October 1962), a diplomatic dispute between the United States and the Soviet Union over the presence of medium-range, Soviet nuclear missiles in Cuba. The Soviet Union resolved the nuclear-missile crisis by removing their missiles from Cuba in exchange for the United States removing their nuclear missiles from the Turkey–Soviet Union border. In Bolivia, the Communist revolution included Guevara until his execution by the Bolivian Army. In Uruguay, the Tupamaros movement was active from the 1960s to the 1970s.\n\nIn 1970, there occurred the October Crisis in Canada, a brief revolution in the province of Quebec, where the separatist \"Front de libération du Québec\" (FLQ) kidnapped James Cross, the British Trade Commissioner in Canada; and Pierre Laporte, the Quebec government minister, who was killed. The FLQ's manifesto condemned English-Canadian imperialism in French Québec and called for a \"Québecois\" socialist state. The harsh Canadian government response included suspension of civil liberties in Quebec, which compelled the FLQ leaders' flight to Cuba.\n\nIn 1979, Daniel Ortega, leader of the Sandinista National Liberation Front, became head of state of Nicaragua upon winning the Nicaraguan civil war. Within months, the United States government of Ronald Reagan then sponsored the Contras in a secret war (1979–1990) against Nicaragua. In 1983, the United States invasion of Grenada impeded the assumption of power by the New Jewel Movement (1973–1983), a vanguard party led by Maurice Bishop. The Salvadoran Civil War (1979–1992) featured the popularly supported Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front, an organisation of left-wing parties fighting against the right-wing military government of El Salvador.\n\nThe Vietnam War (1945–1975) was the second East–West war that occurred in Asia during the Cold War. After the Vietnamese Communists led by Ho Chi Minh defeated the French re-establishment of European colonialism in Viet Nam, the United States replaced France as the Western support of the client-state Republic of Vietnam (1955–1975). Despite military superiority, the United States failed to safeguard South Vietnam from the Viet Cong, the guerrilla army sponsored by North Vietnam. In 1968, North Vietnam launched the Tet Offensive. Although a military failure, the attack was successful psychological warfare that decisively turned international public opinion against the United States intervention to the Vietnamese civil war and five years later eventual United States withdrawal from the war in 1973 and the subsequent Fall of Saigon to the Vietnamese Communists forces in 1975.\n\nConsequent to the Cambodian Civil War and in coalition with Prince Norodom Sihanouk, the native Cambodian Communists, the Maoist Khmer Rouge (1951–1999) led by Pol Pot, established Democratic Kampuchea (1975–1982), a Marxist–Leninist state that featured class warfare to restructure the society of old Cambodia; to be effected and realised with the abolishment of money and private property, the outlawing of religion, the killing of the intelligentsia and compulsory manual labour for the middle classes by way of death-squad state terrorism.\n\nTo eliminate Western cultural influence, Kampuchea expelled all foreigners and effected the destruction of the urban bourgeoisie of old Cambodia, first by displacing the population of the capital city (Phnom Penh); and then by displacing the entire national populace to work the farmlands to increase food supplies. Meanwhile, the Khmer Rouge purged Kampuchea of internal enemies (social class and political, cultural and ethnic) at the killing fields, the scope of which became crimes against humanity that destroyed 2, 700, 000 people by mass murder and genocide. That social restructuring of Cambodia included attacks against the Vietnamese ethnic minority in Kampuchea, which aggravated the historical, ethnic rivalries between the Viet and the Khmer peoples. Beginning in September 1977, Kampuchea and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam continually engaged in border clashes. In 1978, Vietnam invaded Kampuchea and captured Phnom Penh in January 1979, deposed the Maoist Khmer Rouge from government and established the Cambodian Liberation Front for National Renewal as the government of Cambodia.\n\nIn the 1968–1980 period in Africa, Angola, Benin, the Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Somalia and Zimbabwe became Marxist–Leninist states governed by their respective native peoples; Marxist–Leninist guerrillas fought the Portuguese Colonial War in three countries, Angola, Guinea-Bissau and Mozambique; overthrew of the monarchy of Haile Selassie and established the Derg government (1974–1987) of the Coordinating Committee of the Armed Forces, Police and Territorial Army in Ethiopia; Robert Mugabe led the successful civil war to overthrow white-minority rule in Rhodesia (1965–1979) in order to establish Zimbabwe. In South Africa, the anti-communist, white-minority government—based upon the official racism of apartheid—caused much geopolitical tension between the Soviet Union and the United States. In 1976, anti-communism became morally untenable for the West when the South African government killed 176 people (students and adults) in the suppression of the Soweto uprising (June 1976), which protested Afrikaner cultural imperialism, the racist imposition of Afrikaans (a European Germanic language) as the language for teaching school and as the language that black South Africans must speak to white people; and the police assassination in September 1977 of Steven Biko, a leader of the internal resistance to apartheid in South Africa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53994377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53994377", "title": "Mary Batayneh", "text": "Mary Batayneh\n\nMary Nazzal-Batayneh is a barrister (English Bar), social justice activist, founder of Landmark Hotels Company. \n\nNazzal-Batayneh completed a BA in political science from Barnard College, Columbia University, and law degrees from SOAS, University of London, the College of Law London and the Inns of Court School of Law London.\n\nNazzal-Batayneh has been chosen as one of \"Forbes\" \"Most Powerful Arab women\" for consecutive years running. Her work was featured as a \"Forbes\" cover story. She was also chosen as a Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum as the only Jordanian in the class of 2013. Young Global Leaders are chosen based on their commitment of their time and talent towards making the world a better place.\nShe is the founder of Landmark Hotels which owns and manages Landmark Amman. Landmark Hotels is committed to building local capacity and prioritizes the needs of the local community in all decisions. Mary’s most recent hotel initiatives include the establishment of an on-site day care for the children of Landmark employees. Mary is championing the creation of family-friendly businesses as a way of supporting parents in their multiple roles. Mary has lectured on this topic at Harvard University. Landmark was the first local hotel brand to expand outside of Jordan by opening and managing the St George Landmark hotel in Occupied East Jerusalem.\n\nShe serves on several Boards including Al Shabaka: the Palestinian Policy Network and the Royal Film Commission of Jordan. She is also a member of the Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO) and the International Women’s Forum (IWF).\n\nMary played a leading role in the Anti-Apartheid Wall Campaign that campaigned against the construction of the apartheid wall in Occupied Palestine. As part of her advocacy, in 2004, she created a multi-dimensional exhibition on the wall and the occupation apparatus. The exhibition drew in thousands of visitors and received worldwide acclaim. Mary then took parts of the exhibition to refugee camps across Jordan. \nhttps://electronicintifada.net/content/exhibit-amman-conveys-horrors-israels-separation-wall/4983\n\nMary also serves on the board of INJAZ (an NGO dedicated for preparing young Jordanians to become productive members of their society and succeed in a global economy). \n\nNazzal-Batayneh has been a political activist for Palestinian rights for over 20 years in Europe and the US and is a founding member of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement (also known as BDS) in Jordan. She was the chair of the Palestine Legal Aid Fund which seeks to support legal action to hold Israel accountable for crimes against the Palestinian people.\n\nShe is a volunteer brand ambassador for the Social Enterprise Project (SEP) which produces high-end fashion accessories by female artists living in the Gaza refugee camp in Jordan.\n\nNazzal-Batayneh has 3 children.\n\nhttp://onewomanmanyhats.com/1woman-interview-mary-nazzalbatayneh-2015-04-12/\nhttp://thisweekinpalestine.com/mary-nazzal-batayneh/\nhttps://sepjordan.com/blogs/news/90706567-sep-is-proud-to-present-new-brand-ambassador-mary-nazzal-batayneh-and-its-partnership-with-landmark-hotels\nhttps://www.forbesmiddleeast.com/en/the-good-fight/\nhttps://stepfeed.com/our-list-of-the-top-20-arab-activists-for-2017-4459\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4UMnKlps4E\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nkba3YyWNo8\nhttps://www.google.jo/url?\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CYyI6HEl_dA\nhttps://electronicintifada.net/content/exhibit-amman-conveys-horrors-israels-separation-wall/4983\n"}
{"id": "5550566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5550566", "title": "Mbuyisa Makhubo", "text": "Mbuyisa Makhubo\n\nMbuyisa Makhubu (born 1957 or 1958) is the 18-year-old South African school boy seen carrying Hector Pieterson in a famous photograph taken by Sam Nzima after the latter was shot during the Soweto Uprising in 1976.\n\nAfter the photograph was released, he was harassed by the security services, and was forced to flee South Africa. His mother, Nombulelo Makhubu, told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that she received a letter from him from Nigeria in 1978, but that she had not heard from him since. She died in 2004, seemingly without knowledge of what had happened to her son. Mbuyisa was one of a number of South African activists given refuge in Nigeria immediately following the Soweto incident. He was one of three who were settled in a boarding high school in South-Western Nigeria - Federal Government College, Warri during the 1976/77 academic year. But all failed to settle, and had moved on within the year.\n\nIn 2013, claims emerged that a man, Victor Vinnetou, imprisoned in Canada for the previous eight years on immigration charges was Makhubu. Genetic tests were conducted to determine whether this man is indeed Mbuyisa Makhubo. It was later reported that the DNA tests did not substantiate the man's claim to be Makhubu, to the disappointment of Makhubu's family,\n\n"}
{"id": "29708572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29708572", "title": "Mondpaca Esperantista Movado", "text": "Mondpaca Esperantista Movado\n\nMondpaca Esperantista Movado (MEM; World Peace Esperantist Movement) was an Esperanto association founded in 1953 in St. Pölten, Austria, by . Its aim was \"utiligi Esperanton serve al paco kaj reciproka kompreno inter la popoloj\" (to use Esperanto to serve peace and reciprocal understanding between peoples). Its official magazine was \"PACO\".\n\nFrom 1959 to 1963 its vice president was . In 1983, it began to collaborate with the World Esperanto Association (UEA).\n\nDuring the Cold War, MEM was able to conduct official activities on behalf of Esperanto in East Bloc countries on the condition that it must support their Communist governments and the Soviet viewpoint.\n"}
{"id": "1608380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608380", "title": "Morris Hillquit", "text": "Morris Hillquit\n\nMorris Hillquit (August 1, 1869 – October 8, 1933) was a founder and leader of the Socialist Party of America and prominent labor lawyer in New York City's Lower East Side. Together with Eugene V. Debs and Congressman Victor L. Berger, Hillquit was one of the leading public faces of American socialism during the first two decades of the 20th Century.\n\nIn November 1917, running on an anti-war platform, Hillquit garnered more than 100,000 votes as the Socialist candidate for Mayor of New York City. Hillquit would again run for Mayor of New York in 1932. He also stood as a candidate for United States Congress a total of five times over the course of his life.\n\nHillquit was born Moishe Hillkowitz on August 1, 1869, in Riga, Latvia, the second son of German-speaking ethnic Jewish factory owners. From the time he was 13, young Moishe attended a non-Jewish secular school, the Russian language Alexander Gymnasium. At the age of 15, in 1884, Moishe's father, Benjamin Hillkowitz, lost his factory in Riga and decided to leave for America to improve the family's financial situation. Together with his oldest son he set out for New York City, where he procured a two-room apartment in a tenement house.\n\nIn 1886, Benjamin sent for the rest of the family and they joined him in New York. The family remained poor in the new world, living in a tenement in a predominately Jewish area of the Lower East Side. Then, he worked on various short-term jobs in the New York city textile industry and as a picture frame maker in a factory. Morris later remembered his family as \"frightfully poor,\" with his older brother and sisters working to help support the family.\n\nHillquit felt himself compelled to get a job to help alleviate the family's difficult financial situation. Since his English was poor and his body frail, employment options were limited. He joined other young intellectual émigrés from Tsarist Russia a shirt-maker, repetitiously stitching cuffs of garments. In his posthumously-published memoirs, Hillquit recalled that cuff-making was \"the simplest part and required least skill and training,\" involving the simple stitching of square pieces of cut cloth. The young Hillquit never progressed past that entry-level task as a shirtmaker.\n\nHillquit's biographer Norma Fain Pratt remarks that Moishe was quickly drawn to the socialist movement in America:\n\nAlmost as soon as he settled in New York, Hillquit was drawn into East Side Jewish radical circles. He was then a small (5'4\"), slightly built, frail adolescent with dark hair, dark oval-shaped eyes, and a gentle charming manner. He was immediately attracted to other young Jewish immigrants, mostly former students, now shop workers, who considered themselves intellectuals — a new radical \"intelligentsia\" ... For the most part their radicalism was rooted in their experiences in the European socialist and anarchist movements. But emigration and economic hardships in the United States also contributed to their further radicalization. As foreigners in America they were situated far enough outside the society to observe its failings. As frustrated but literate people, they were ambitious enough to participate in it. The young intellectuals were interested in finding alternatives to their present circumstances; their solution was to transform them.\nOn his 18th birthday in August 1887, the future Hillquit joined the Socialist Labor Party of America, brought into the ranks by a fellow garment worker and Russian language socialist newspaper editor, Louis Miller. Moishe became a member of Section New York's Branch 17, a Russian-speaking unit established by Jewish émigrés from tsarist Russia not long before his joining.\n\nWithin a year or so of joining the SLP, biographer Pratt notes, he became one of the party's leading crusaders against anarchism, publishing a lengthy article \"Sotzializm un anarchizm\" in the\" Arbeter Zeitung\" [Workers' News], a Yiddish newspaper that he helped to establish. Hillkowitz contrasted the individualism of anarchism with the communalism of socialism in the piece. During that time the 19-year-old Hillkowitz worked as the business manager of the \"Arbeter zeitung,\" a paper that was jointly founded with Abraham Cahan, Louis Miller, and Morris Winchevsky in an effort to speak to the city's Yiddish-speaking immigrant working class about socialism in their own idiom. Hillkowitz, ironically, was not fluent in Yiddish, having been raised with the German and Russian languages.\n\nHe helped to found the United Hebrew Trades, a garment workers' union formed in 1888, while writing for the \"Arbeiter Zeitung\". He graduated from New York University Law School in 1893. He was admitted to the New York State Bar Association in November of that same year.\n\nHillquit led the departure of a dissident faction from Daniel De Leon's Socialist Labor Party in 1899 and was a delegate to the group's convention at Rochester, New York in 1900. He was a strong supporter of unity with the Chicago-based Social Democratic Party of Victor Berger and Eugene V. Debs. In August 1901 the two groups managed to bury their differences and come together to form the Socialist Party of America (SPA) at a convention in Indianapolis, which Hillquit also attended.\n\nMorris Hillquit remained one of the paramount political leaders of the Socialist Party for the rest of his life.\n\nHillquit was a pioneer historian of the American radical movement, publishing a broad scholarly survey in 1903 entitled \"History of Socialism in the United States.\" The book would be issued in five English-language editions during Hillquit's lifetime and would be translated into a number of the primary languages of the American socialist movement, including German, Russian, Yiddish, Finnish, and Polish.\n\nIn 1904, Hillquit attended the International Socialist Congress at Amsterdam and was involved with the proposed Anti-Immigration Resolution, which opposed any legislation that forbade or hindered the immigration of foreign workingmen, some forced by misery to migrate. The resolution read: \n\nHillquit ran for US Congress on the Socialist ticket in the New York 9th Congressional District in 1906 and 1908. In the latter campaign, Hillquit garnered 21.23% of the vote in a losing effort against a Democratic incumbent.\n\nAfter the campaign, Hillquit turned his attention to inner-party affairs, which brought him into conflict with the SPA's syndicalist Left Wing. His biographer notes at least four serious points of departure between Hillquit and the Industrial Workers of the World wing of the party: a disbelief in the stability and the efficacy of industrial unions, a distaste for the strike-oriented tactics of the IWW as opposed to collective bargaining, a belief in the separation of functions between the political and labor wings of the workers' movement, as opposed to the IWW's desire to make industrial organization primary, and the radical tone of IWW propaganda, which Hillquit believed alienated much of society from the socialist movement and marginalized the left. His biographer declares:\n\n\"His leadership fanned the fires of Party disagreement and although [Hillquit] was not alone in causing the break in 1913 with an important segment of its left wing, he certainly made a major contribution towards this unfortunate rupture.\"\nIn 1911, IWW leader William \"Big Bill\" Haywood was elected to the National Executive Committee of the Socialist Party, on which Hillquit also served. The syndicalist and the electoral socialist squared off in a lively public debate in New York City's Cooper Union on Jan. 11, 1912. Haywood declared that Hillquit and the socialists ought to try \"a little sabotage in the right place at the proper time\" and attacked Hillquit for having abandoned the class struggle by helping the New York garment workers negotiate an industrial agreement with their employers. Hillquit replied that he had no new message rather than to reiterate a belief in a two-sided workers movement, with separate and equal political and trade union arms. \"A mere change of structural forms would not revolutionize the American labor movement as claimed by our extreme industrialists,\" he declared.\n\nHillquit's battle against the syndicalist left of the party continued at the 1912 National Convention, held in May in Indianapolis. Hillquit's biographer notes that\n\n\"As chairman of the Committee on Constitution he more than likely authored the amendment to the Party's Article II, Section 6, which provided for the expulsion from the Party of 'any member of the party who opposes political action or advocates crime, sabotage, or other methods of violence as a weapon of the working class to aid in its emancipation ...'\" He voiced his justification for the anti-sabotage amendment by reassuring the convention that 'if there is one thing in this country that can now check or disrupt the Socialist movement, it is not the capitalist class; it is not the Catholic Church; it is our own injudicious friends from within.'\"\nThe issue of \"syndicalism vs. socialism\" was bitterly fought over the next two years, consummated by \"Big Bill\" Haywood's recall from the SP's NEC and the departure of a broad section of the left wing from the organization. The radical wing never forgave Hillquit for his anti-IWW orientation and made him a major whipping boy in the big split that was to come.\n\nAs a staunch internationalist and antimilitarist, Hillquit represented the ideological center of the Socialist Party during the years of World War I, which controlled the organization in coalition with the more pragmatist right wing exemplified by such locally oriented leaders, politicians, and journalists as Victor Berger, Daniel Hoan, John Spargo, and Charles Edward Russell. He was elected to the SP's governing National Executive Committee on multiple occasions and was a frequent speaker at national conventions of the party. Due to his foreign birth, however, Hillquit was not constitutionally eligible to serve as President or Vice President of the United States and was thus never a candidate of the party for national office.\n\nHillquit was a principal co-author of the resolution against the US' entry into World War I, which was passed overwhelmingly both by an emergency Socialist Party convention held just after the April 6th, 1917 declaration of war and by a subsequent membership vote. Despite official repression, popular patriotic pressure and vigilante action against the SP of A's organization, members and press, Hillquit never wavered on the issue of intervention, staunchly backing Debs, Berger, Kate Richards O'Hare and other socialists charged under the Espionage Act for opposing the war effort.\nOn January 26, 1916, Hillquit was part of a three-person delegation to Woodrow Wilson to advocate part of the Socialist Party's peace program, which proposed that \"the President of the United States convoke a congress of neutral nations, which shall offer mediation to the belligerents and remain in permanent session until the termination of the war.\" A resolution had been offered in the House of Representatives by the party's lone representative, Meyer London of New York, and Wilson received Hillquit, London, and socialist trade unionist James H. Maurer at the White House, along with various other delegations. Hillquit later recalled that Wilson was at first \"inclined to give us a short and perfunctory hearing\" but as the Socialists made their case to him, the session \"developed into a serious and confidential conversation.\" Wilson told the group that he had already considered a similar plan but chose not to put it into effect because he was not sure of its reception by other neutral nations. \"The fact is,\" Wilson claimed, \"that the United States is the only important country that may be said to be neutral and disinterested. Practically all other neutral countries are in one way or another tied up with some belligerent power and dependent on it.\"\n\nBeginning in June 1917, Hillquit served as chief defense lawyer in a series of high-profile cases on behalf of various socialist magazines and newspapers. The Wilson administration, headed in the matter by Postmaster General Albert Burleson, began to systematically ban specific issues or entire publications from the mail, or to force publications into financial peril by denying them access to low cost periodical rates. Hillquit argued cases on behalf of a number of important radical publications, including Max Eastman's radical artistic and literary magazine, \"The Masses;\" the two socialist dailies — the \"New York Call\" and the \"Milwaukee Leader;\" the SP's official weekly, \"The American Socialist;\" the popular monthly \"Pearson's Magazine;\" and the Yiddish language \"The Jewish Daily Forward.\" In each case, Hillquit argued that the socialist press was truly \"American\" and that a socialist definition of \"patriotism\" included the freedoms of press and speech and the right to criticize in a democratic society. Hillquit was unsuccessful in winning access to the mails for the papers he represented, but he did manage to keep the proprietors of \"The Masses\" out of prison.\n\nIn the summer of 1917, with nationalism and pro-war sentiment sweeping the nation, Hillquit ran for Mayor of New York City. Hillquit's campaign was based on an anti-war platform and commitment to economical public services and drew the diverse support both of committed socialists, pacifists and other anti-war activists, and pro-war liberals endorsing his campaign as a protest against the government's \"sedition\" policy, which effectively served to curb freedoms of speech and press. Hillquit seems to have been largely immune from attack by the Socialist Party's left wing or other radicals during the high-profile campaign, which ended with Hillquit collecting an impressive 22% of the citywide vote. That campaign, combined with the ongoing electoral success of Congressman Meyer London (elected as a Socialist in 1914, 1916, and 1920) marked the high point for Socialist Party politics in New York City.\n\nAs a member of the SP's National Executive Committee Hillquit worked closely with National Secretary Adolph Germer and James Oneal to defend the party from what in modern parlance might be described as an \"unfriendly takeover\" by its revolutionary socialist left wing. However, due to ill health Hillquit did not participate in the pivotal 1919 Emergency National Convention at Chicago, which formalized the split of the left wing from the Socialist Party to form the Communist Labor Party of America and the Communist Party of America. Instead, Hillquit was ensconced in a sanitorium in upstate New York, recovering from another bout of tuberculosis, and was informed about the events of the convention after the fact.\n\nIn 1920 Hillquit served as the lead attorney in the unsuccessful defense of the five democratically elected Socialist assemblymen expelled from the New York State Assembly. Hillquit's efforts to see Assemblymen Orr, Claessens, Waldman, DeWitt, and Solomon restored to office was ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nFrom 1922 through the election of 1924, Hillquit was a leading advocate of Socialist Party participation in the Conference for Progressive Political Action (CPPA).\n\nAs a celebrated leader of American Marxism and acculturated Jew, Hillquit never became closely associated with the specifically Jewish left wing, but he played a role in the Jewish trade union movement, being for a time the lawyer of the ILGWU. He also never became a Jewish nationalist of any kind; quite the contrary, he was ideologically disposed against it, but in 1926 he confessed, \"Zionism makes a strong emotional appeal to me, chiefly as a manifestation of awakening national self respect of the Jewish people.\" He quickly added however that Zionism, like all other national movements, must guard itself against the dangers of degeneration into jingoism—\"If it ever developed in that direction, it will forfeit all claims to Socialist sympathy.\"\n\nIn 1932, shortly before his death from tuberculosis, Hillquit received over one-eighth of the vote in his second campaign for Mayor of New York City. That proved to be Hillquit's final electoral run; during his life, he had been twice a candidate for Mayor of New York City and on five times a nominee for Congress.\n\nHe died of tuberculosis \"a few minutes past midnight on October 8th\" of 1933. He was 64 years old at the time of his death.\n\nHillquit was first and foremost an orator, delivering a torrent of public talks on socialist themes to various audiences throughout his life. In his memoirs, Hillquit conservatively estimates the total number of such speeches to have been \"at least 2,000.\" He often appeared in public debates taking up the socialist banner. He wrote frequently for popular magazines and the party press but fairly infrequently for publication in leaflet or pamphlet form.\n\nDespite the fact that Hillquit was not a prolific pamphleteer, he did author of a number of substantial books, including a serious academic history of socialism, \"History of Socialism in the United States\" (1903, revised 1910 — translated into both Russian and German); works of popularization, such as \"Socialism in Theory and Practice\" (1909) and \"Socialism Summed Up\" (1912); a short theoretical piece, \"From Marx to Lenin\" (1921); as well as a posthumously published memoir, \"Loose Leaves from a Busy Life\" (1934).\n\nHillquit's papers are housed at the State Historical Society of Wisconsin at Madison and are available on microfilm.\n\nOne of the buildings of the East River Housing Corporation, a housing cooperative started by the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union in Cooperative Village on the Lower East Side, was named in Hillquit's honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22846788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22846788", "title": "National Union for Independence", "text": "National Union for Independence\n\nThe National Union for Independence (, UNI) is a militant socialist pro-independence alliance of political parties in New Caledonia. It is a component of the Kanak Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS) along with the Caledonian Union.\n\nThe term UNI has now been changed to include a broad coalition of:\n\n\nThe Palika is by far the largest of the four parties.\n\nThe term UNI was first applied in 1995 to refers to a dissident list from the FLNKS led by Paul Néaoutyine in the North Province. Since then, the term UNI refers to the broad coalition led by the Palika in various provincial elections since then.\n\nIn the 2009 provincial elections, the party won 10 seats (of which 8 went to the Palika, the other two to the UC-R and RDO respectively) in the Congress of New Caledonia and around 6.87% of the vote. However, in the South Province, the UNI ran on a common slate with the Caledonian Union and won three of the four seats won by that list (the Palika won one, the UPM won one, and the RDO won one).\n"}
{"id": "111261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=111261", "title": "Nauvoo, Illinois", "text": "Nauvoo, Illinois\n\nNauvoo (; etymology: ) is a small city in Hancock County, Illinois, United States, on the Mississippi River near Fort Madison, Iowa. The population of Nauvoo was 1,149 at the 2010 census. Nauvoo attracts visitors for its historic importance and its religious significance to members of several groups: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church); the Community of Christ, formerly the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (RLDS); other groups stemming from the Latter Day Saint movement; and the Icarians. The city and its immediate surrounding area are listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Nauvoo Historic District.\n\nThe area of Nauvoo was first called Quashquema, named in honor of the Native American chief who headed a Sauk and Fox settlement numbering nearly 500 lodges. By 1827, white settlers had built cabins in the area. By 1829 this area of Hancock County had grown sufficiently so that a post office was needed and in 1832 the town, now called Venus, was one of the contenders for the new county seat. However, the honor was awarded to a nearby city, Carthage. In 1834 the name Venus was changed to Commerce because the settlers felt that the new name better suited their plans.\n\nIn late 1839, arriving Mormons bought the small town of Commerce and in April 1840 it was renamed Nauvoo by Joseph Smith, who led the Latter Day Saints to Nauvoo to escape conflict with the state government in Missouri. The name Nauvoo is derived from the traditional Hebrew language with an anglicized spelling. The word comes from Isaiah 52:7, “How beautiful upon the mountains...” It is notable that “by 1844 Nauvoo's population had swollen to 12,000, rivaling the size of Chicago” at the time.\nAfter Joseph Smith's death in 1844, continued violence from surrounding non-Mormons forced most Latter-Day Saints to leave Nauvoo. Most of these followers, led by Brigham Young, emigrated to the Great Salt Lake Valley. In 1849, Icarians moved to the Nauvoo area to implement a utopian socialist commune based on the ideals of French philosopher Étienne Cabet. The colony had over 500 members at its peak, but Cabet's death in 1856 led some members to leave this parent colony. In the early and mid 20th century Nauvoo was primarily a Roman Catholic town, and a plurality of the population today is Methodist or another Christian faith.\n\nOn the city’s higher ground are the temple, residential areas, and the business district along Mulholland Street (Illinois Route 96), much of it devoted to the needs of tourists and those interested in Latter Day Saint history. The flatlands are occupied by a small number of 19th-century brick houses and other buildings that have survived the city’s vicissitudes, with large empty spaces between them where houses and whole neighborhoods have disappeared.\n\nCommunity of Christ owns much of the southern end of the flatlands and maintains several key historic sites in and around Nauvoo, including the Joseph Smith Homestead, the Nauvoo House, the Red Brick Store, the Mansion House, and the Smith Family Cemetery. Guided tours are available at the church's Joseph Smith Historic Site, at the south end of the town and accessible from Highway 96.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints owns most of the other historic sites in Nauvoo, including the homes of Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and other early members of the church, as well as other significant buildings. Most of these sites are open to the public, with demonstrations and displays, and there are self-guided driving tours as well as wagon tours. These tours are free, as are the stage and riverside theatrical productions. There is a large visitors' center complete with two theaters and a relief map of 1846 Nauvoo.\n\nThe creation of Nauvoo as a historical tourism destination was largely a result of the work of J. LeRoy Kimball (1901-1992). Kimball was a descendent of early Mormon leader Heber C. Kimball, and bought his ancestor's home in 1954 with the intention of restoring it. He was the president of Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. from 1962 to 1986.\n\nA Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' congregation was established in Nauvoo in 1956, from its inception consisting largely of elderly LDS couples serving as missionaries and historical guides. The \"City of Joseph\" Pageant, an outdoor musical produced by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, began to run each summer in 1976. A [Stake (Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints) was organized with headquarters at Nauvoo in 1979. In addition to the many homes that had been restored, the Relief Society Memorial Garden was dedicated in 1978, featuring statues designed by Dennis Smith and Florence Hansen.\n\nIn June 2002, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints completed construction of a new temple on the site of the original temple. The exterior, and much of the interior, is a copy of the original. The exterior matches the original exactly except in three ways: The temple was positioned south to allow for parking on the north side, there are two new exterior doors (with an entrance on the north for disabled persons and emergency exits in the basement on the east) and there is a standing Angel Moroni as is seen on most modern temples; the original was an unspecified flying angel, also with a horn in hand but in a horizontal position with the compass, square and flame above.\n\nThe rebuilding of the Nauvoo Temple was an occasion of great joy and enthusiasm for members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. During the public open house prior to its dedication, 331,849 visitors toured the building. Following \nChurch custom, the temple is now used only by Church members.\n\nIn comparison to other towns in the area, Nauvoo has seen consistent population growth since the completion of the temple.\n\nThe work to renovate various sites of historical significance in the area is coordinated by \"Nauvoo Restoration, Incorporated\". NRI is a nonprofit organization supported by the LDS Church and Community of Christ, as well as others interested in Nauvoo’s history. Due to the work of NRI and its members, Nauvoo has been dubbed the “Williamsburg of the Midwest.” In March 2007, Nauvoo was nominated to compete as one of the Seven Wonders of Illinois.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints at Nauvoo sponsors numerous activities throughout the year including The Nauvoo Pageant (July/August), Grape Festival (Labor day weekend), and Pumpkin walk (October).\n\nBecause most of the city is well above flood level, Nauvoo has not historically had problems when the Mississippi river has risen. In both the floods of 1993 and 2008, very little damage was sustained within city limits.\n\nNauvoo has many places of worship, among them: United Methodist Church, Christ Lutheran Church, St Peter & Paul Catholic Church, Nauvoo Baptist Church, a Community of Christ congregation, and various Wards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.\n\nNauvoo is at (40.5446, -91.3803). Situated on a wide bend in the Mississippi River, Nauvoo has most of the historic district in the lower flat lands (called the \"flats\") that are no more than a few feet above the water line. A prominent hill rises as one moves further east, at the apex of which stands the rebuilt Nauvoo Temple. Beginning with the temple, this elevated land (called the \"uptown\") continues flat for many miles eastward.\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, Nauvoo has a total area of , of which (or 70.17%) is land and (or 29.83%) is water.\n\nNon-census data indicates that the population of Nauvoo grew from 100 in 1839 to about 4000 in 1842, 12,000 in 1844, and stood at about 11,000 in 1845.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, 1,149 people, 494 households, and 351 families resided in the city. The city's racial makeup was 97.7% White, 0.6% African American, 0.3% Native American, 0.6% from other races, and 0.9% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.60% of the population.\n\nThere were 494 households, of which 20.0% had children under the age of 18, 60.9% were married couples living together, 7.7% had a female householder with no husband present and 28.9% were non-families. 28.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 12.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.28 and the average family size was 2.70.\n\nIn the city, the population was spread out with 19.9% under the age of 18 and 29.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 51.6 years. The population is 47.5% male and 52.5% female.\n\nThe city's median household income was $37,216, and the median family income was $56,250. The city's per capita income was $26,210. About 6.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 9.5% of those between ages 18 and 64, and 6.3% of those age 65 or over.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, 1,063 people, 403 households, and 276 families resided in the city. The population density was 314.4 people per square mile (121.4/km²). There were 458 housing units at an average density of 135.4 per square mile (52.3/km²). The city's racial makeup was 97.08% White, 0.28% African American, 0.47% Native American, 0.19% Asian, 0.94% from other races, and 1.03% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.60% of the population.\n\nThere were 403 households, of which 28.0% had children under the age of 18, 58.3% were married couples living together, 6.9% have a female householder with no husband present and 31.3% were non-families. 28.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 16.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.46 and the average family size was 3.04.\n\nIn the city, the population was spread out with 24.6% under the age of 18, 6.5% from 18 to 24, 21.9% from 25 to 44, 24.0% from 45 to 64, and 23.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 43 years. For every 100 females, there were 88.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 79.8 males.\n\nThe city's median household income was $39,519, and the median family income was $49,167. Males had a median income of $37,895 versus $24,250 for females. The city's per capita income was $18,150. About 5.6% of families and 12.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 16.2% of those under age 18 and 18.2% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe Nauvoo Blue Cheese company began to produce cheese in the 1930s. It was discovered that the cool, moist wine cellars in the area were ideal for aging cheese. The wine cellars, and the wine-making business originally started by the Icarians, saw a decline in use because of prohibition. In 2003 the Nauvoo Cheese company went out of business when Saputo food company purchased it and relocated to other facilities.\n\nNauvoo is also home to Baxter's Vineyards, a small family-owned winery begun in 1857 by Emile Baxter that is it Illinois' oldest established winery.\n\nTourism is the major industry in Nauvoo, with Nauvoo Restoration Inc., employing approximately 30, while an estimated 200 LDS missionaries (unpaid) also provide a boost to local businesses during the tourist season.\n\nDue to lack of sustainable industries, the city has lost several key businesses and services including the High School and multiple small businesses. In October 2018, a Dollar General opened in Nauvoo.\n\nNauvoo City government consists of the Mayor, six aldermen (two from each ward), and City Treasurer. Additionally, there are appointed positions for City Clerk, Marshall, and Public Works positions.\nAs of 2007, the mayor is John McCarty. The aldermen are Tom Adams, Clive Moon, Bev Reynolds, Jim Boyles, Dave Koechle, and Lee Ourth.\n\nSeparate from the city are the Nauvoo Fire Protection District (FPD) and Nauvoo-Colusa School System. The Nauvoo FPD covers all of the city plus the surrounding five townships. The fire department currently provides both fire and EMS coverage for its district. In 1991 the Nauvoo FPD became a BLS non-transporting agency, relying on the county ambulance service to transport patients to local hospitals. Because of longer response times from county-run ambulances, the citizens of the Nauvoo FPD passed a referendum by 74% on April 17, 2007, for ambulance services that would transfer the ambulance tax money to the FPD that was being paid to the county. The Nauvoo FPD completed its fundraising efforts on November 30, 2007, to purchase its ambulance, which entered service in January 2008.\n\nThe Nauvoo-Colusa Community Unit School District 325 runs the local elementary and middle school.\n\nPrior to 2008 residents attended Nauvoo-Colusa High School. Since 2008 residents have attended Warsaw Community Unit School District 316's Warsaw High School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52617256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52617256", "title": "Naxalbari uprising", "text": "Naxalbari uprising\n\nNaxalbari uprising was an armed peasant revolt in 1967 in Naxalbari block of Siliguri subdivision in Darjeeling district, West Bengal, India. It was mainly led by local tribals and the radical communist leaders of Bengal and further developed into Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) in 1969. The event became an inspiration to the naxalite movement which rapidly spread from West Bengal to other states of India creating division within the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M)) party.\n\nThe uprising occurred in such a situation that a great turmoil was going on with in the communist organisations of the world and also the Indian nation following the Sino-Soviet split. The leader and ideologue of the uprising Charu Majumdar presumed that the time was ripe for launching an armed protracted people's war in India following the Chinese Revolution (1949), Vietnam War and Cuban Revolution. Charu majumdar wrote the Historic Eight Documents which became the foundation of the naxalite movement in 1967.\n\nThe communists in 1965-66 already had gained grounds in the Naxalbari region. The so-called \"siliguri group\" launched the uprising by giving the call for initiation of armed struggle. Many peasant cells were created throughout the region. On March 3, 1967, some peasants seized a plot of land in the region and started harvesting crops. By 18 March the peasants started seizing land from jotedars (landlords) landowners who owned large plots of land in the region were called jotedars). Peasant committees were set up throughout the region within four months. The first clash occurred between the peasants and landlords when a share-cropper Bigul Kisan was beaten up by landlord gentries. Following this violent clashes occurred when the peasant committees seized land, foodgrains and arms from the landlord gentries. The government started mobilizing police officers.The inspector of Jharugaon village was killed by peasant committee members. In retaliation the police open fired killing nine women and one child on 25 May 1967. By June the peasant committees gained hold in the regions around Naxalbari, Kharibari and Phansidewa seizing lands, ammunition and food grains from the jotedars. The tea garden works around Darjeeling region participated in strikes supprting the peasant committees. The upheaval sustained till July 19 when the paramilitary forces were sent by the government. Leaders like Jangal Santhal were arrested. Some of them like Charu Majumdar went underground. And others like Tribheni Kanu, Sobham, Ali Gorkha Majhi, and Tilka Majhi were killed.\n\nThe uprising got moral support from the communists of Nepal and China simultaneously deteriorating the relation of the later with the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The CPI(M) expelled many of its members who supported the uprising. Charu Majumdar, Souren Bose, Mahadeb Mukherjee and Dilip Bagchi were expelled on the same day. Expelled communists later on organised themselves into one organisation (AICCCR) further developing into the CPI(ML). CPI(ML) remained the centre of the naxalite movement till 1975. A large number of enthusiastic youth joined the movement. Although the uprising was suppressed but it remained a landmark of the India polity which further lead to several other similar kind of movements in parts of Bihar (see Lal Sena) and the Naxalite–Maoist insurgency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1079139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079139", "title": "Oommen Chandy", "text": "Oommen Chandy\n\nOommen Chandy is an Indian statesman and senior leader of the Indian National Congress party. He served as the Chief Minister of Kerala for two terms, from 2004 to 2006 and again from 2011 to 2016. He was also Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Legislative Assembly from 2006 to 2011. He has represented Puthuppally as MLA in the State Assembly since 1970.\nOn 6 June 2018 Congress President Rahul Gandhi appointed him as General Secretary of All India Congress Committee in charge of the crucial state of Andhra Pradesh. He is now the Congress Working Committee member .\n\nOommen Chandy was born at Kumarakom, Kottayam district, Kerala in 1943.\n\nChandy ventured into the political arena as an activist of Kerala Students Union (KSU), the student wing of the party. He was the unit president of KSU at St George High School, Puthupally, and went on to become the State President of the organization. Chandy completed his college education from CMS College, Kottayam, St. Berchmans College, Changanassery. Later, he took a bachelor's degree in law (LL.B) from Government Law College, Ernakulam.\n\nChandy started his political career through the Kerala Students Union (KSU), which he served as president from 1967 to 1969. He was elected as the president of the State Youth Congress in 1970.\n\nHe has represented the Puthuppally Constituency for decades, having been elected to the Kerala Legislative Assembly in 1970, 1977, 1980, 1982, 1987, 1991, 1996, 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016. During his legislative career he had also served as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee during 1996–98.\n\nChandy has been a minister in the Government of Kerala on four occasions. He was the Minister for Labour from 11 April 1977 to 25 April 1977 in the first K. Karunakaran Ministry and continued holding the same portfolio in the succeeding first A.K. Antony Ministry till 27 October 1978. He was in the charge of Home portfolio in the second K. Karunakaran Ministry from 28 December 1981 to 17 March 1982. Again, he was sworn in as a minister in the fourth K.Karunakaran Ministry on 2 July 1991. He was in charge of Finance Portfolio and resigned from the cabinet on 22 June 1994 due to difference with the Chief Minister.\n\nThe results of the parliamentary elections in May 2004 saw the Indian National Congress not winning a single seat in Kerala. The sitting Chief Minister, A.K. Antony, was forced to resign and accept responsibility for the poor results. On 30 August 2004, Chandy was elected the Congress Legislature Party leader at the end of a meeting by AICC observers and clearance by the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi. In what may be seen as a reflection of his work as Chief Minister, the Congress-led alliance was defeated, but managed to retain 40 out of 140 seats in the assembly and boost its vote-share by nearly 10% after the general election rout. He resigned as Chief Minister on 12 May 2006 following the defeat of his party in 2006 Assembly Elections.\n\nOommen Chandy was the leader of opposition in the twelfth Kerala Legislative Assembly. Under his leadership UDF marked victories in Lok Sabha Election 2009, gaining 16 out of 20 parliament constituencies in Kerala, and Local Body Election 2010. In the history of Kerala politics it's the first time that the UDF got an upper hand in local body elections.\n\nAfter winning the closely contested 2011 assembly election, Congress legislative party unanimously elected Oommen Chandy as its leader. At the Congress Legislature Party meeting, Chandy's name was proposed by, Ramesh Chennithala and seconded by Aryadan Mohammed. The election process was formally launched after Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Mohsina Kidwai and AICC general secretary Madhusudan Mistry, who is in charge of Kerala, held a one-to-one meeting in their capacity as observers with the 38 elected MLAs.\n\nUDF (United Democratic Front) led by Oommen Chandy secured a slender margin in assembly election which held on 13 April 2011. UDF candidates won in 72 seats against 68 seats of LDF (Left Democratic Front). He took the oath on 18 May 2011 with six other ministers of his cabinet. Later thirteen other ministers were also inducted into his cabinet.\n\nHe gave up Vigilance Portfolio in early August 2011, after a fresh probe was ordered on the Palmolein oil case, which happened when he was Finance Minister in 1992.\n\nIn June 2013, Chandy's personal assistant was arrested for an alleged involvement in the 2013 Kerala solar panel scam.. Opposition parties subsequently demanded Chandy's resignation until the United Democratic Front (UDF) government ordered a judicial inquiry into the scandal..\n\nOommen Chandy received the 2013 United Nations Public Service Award from the Asia-Pacific region, for the category \"Preventing and Combating Corruption in the Public Service.\" The award was presented on 27 June 2013, in Manama, Bahrain, by the UN Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs, Wu Hongbo. The award was based on the theme \"Transformative e-Government and Innovation: Creating a Better Future for All.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28403086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28403086", "title": "Oscar Oiwa", "text": "Oscar Oiwa\n\nOscar Oiwa (in ) is a Brazilian-American painter.\n\nOiwa was born in São Paulo, Brazil, son of Japanese immigrants. He received his B.F.A. (1989) from the School of Architecture and Urbanism, São Paulo University. Oiwa was influenced by comic books, art, and magazines throughout his youth, as well as the urban environment of his birthplace. He experienced contemporary art during this time in nearby galleries and became an assistant at the São Paulo Art Biennial. Oiwa held his first solo exhibition while he was still in college and thereafter participated in the 21st São Paulo Art Biennial (1991).\n\nHe currently lives and works in New York City, though his artwork has been exhibited worldwide. He has had over 60 solo exhibitions since 1990, including Arizona State University Art Museum, Museum of Contemporary Art Tokyo, Fukushima Prefectural Museum of Art, Takamatsu City Museum and Museu Nacional de Belas Artes in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nSelected public collections: The National Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo (Tokyo), Museum of Contemporary Art Tokyo (Tokyo), Mori Art Museum (Tokyo), Yokohama Museum of Art (Kanagawa), Toyota Municipal Museum(Aichi), Hiroshima City Museum of Contemporary Art(Hiroshima), Hyogo Prefectural Museum of Art(Hyogo), 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art, Kanazawa(Ishikawa), Utsunomiya Museum of Art (Tochigi), Phoenix Museum of Art(Arizona), Arizona State University Art Museum (Arizona), Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, University of São Paulo Museum of Contemporary Art (USP).\n\nRepresented Gallery: Art Front Gallery (Tokyo), Tokyo Gallery+BTAP (Tokyo, Beijing), Gallery Caption (Gifu), Keumsan Gallery(Seoul), Connoisseur Contemporary (Hong Kong). He has received several awards including Pollock-Krasner Foundation grants, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship (2001) and Asian Cultural Council in 2002.\n\nBorn in São Paulo in 1965, Oiwa relocated to Tokyo in 1991 after graduating from the university. After ten years in Japan, interrupted by a year spent in London, he moved to New York in 2002 and has since made that city his base of operations. His decision both times to relocate to another country was motivated by a desire to expand his activities as an artist, he says. At this suggests, Oiwa has always been a self-motivating artist, sure of his needs, when it comes to his movements. Among 20 years of art production starting from São Paulo days, Oiwa’s oeuvre includes everything from texts, paintings, and art objects to fictional narrative-based installations, conceptual works patterned after kits, public art, and book production.\nOiwa's works present us with a world closely familiar and yet completely unexpected. As is often said, it is a world constructed of dissimilar or opposing elements that, although starkly different, coexist. Behind the interest Oiwa's works give to people is the breadth of vision with which he connects these innumerable elements - their amplitude, in other words.\nThe coexistence of naturalist representation and the fabled-fantastic datum is one of the typical aspects of Oiwa’s paintings – one that approximates his production to Brazilian and Latin American literary tradition, of so-called magic realism. The realm of authors such Jorge Amado, Alejo Carpentier, Isabel Allende or Gabriel García Marquez, to mention only a few among the most celebrated, is characterized by a similar oscillation, that is to say, by the coexistence of meticulously naturalist descriptions, often deeply engaged from the social political standpoint, and passages of fantastic literature, replete with ghosts, miracles, and metamorphoses. Here, the possible and the impossible seem to live in harmony; the absurd and the inexplicable become plausible, and the fabulous become natural and even expected, exactly like in Oiwa's pictures. The joyful and yet menacing giant flowers that hover over New York in \"Gardening (Manhattan)\" (2002), or the black snow that falls over São Paulo in \"Black Snow \"(1997) are majestic, biblical events comparable to the insomnia and amnesia that afflict the inhabitants of Macondo in García Marquez’s \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\"; or, even more tangible, to thousands of notes scribbled with names of all things, that they post everywhere in their desperate attempt to halt memory loss.\n\nThe kinship of Oiwa’s painting with a typically Latin American literary genre should not suggest a reductionist or regionalist reading of his oeuvre. On the contrary, among the Brazilian artists of his generation, Oscar Oiwa is certainly one who most rapidly and effectively became independent from the local context, having lived the better part of his life and built his artistic career between Europe, Japan, and the United States. Way beyond the Latin American context, the simultaneity of distinctive records in combination with the richness of sources and references attest to the globalized and postmodern character of Oiwa’s painting – provided we view him as an artist undergoing constant, contradictory and ironical transformation, permeable to the most diverse stimuli.\nMany art writers have called his work criticism of globalization, something that has also been called the cause of 9/11. Oiwa, however, says globalization is not entirely bad. In fact, this globe-trotting artist may be the epitome of globalization; his artwork as a look at the world simultaneously from the inside and out.\nEver the ecumenical, Oiwa directs his wit to the broader political community. In \"G-8 Meeting\", 2007, he places mascots for the most powerful countries of the world in a garden setting. They seem to have arrived by yacht. The telltale Oiwa remind us of the way the rest of the world lives with a heap of rubble huddled in the lower-right corner. An elegant mansion suitable for such a summit meeting is in the background. Over all, a lovely pattern of snow dapples the sky in much the way that pattern works on Azuchi–Momoyama period decorative screens. The players are gathered on the lawn to have a picnic, or divide the spoils. It is a union of cartoon superheroes. Italy is represented by Valentine, an anime babe wielding a camera as if it were a machine gun, her bandolier of film and gadgets across her bare breasts. Her boots in a camouflage pattern nearly reach the bottoms of her bikini panties. Asterix le Galois, representing France, is dressed like an escape from Walkyrie. He toasts the representative from the United Kingdom, Wallace, who is eating. They have a bottle of champagne on ice. In the foreground, a demur Misha, the bear from the Olympics, is Russia. Then there are the bodybuilders in leotards. Japan is represented by the special-effects film star Ultraman. The United States is Captain America, with big American feet, and Germany hanging on for dear life. Looking like a cousin of the American, Captain Canuck, in red and white, represents Canada. In the background, as obedient as a Zen monk, Mafalda is sweeping. The Argentine comic strip began in the 1960s features Mafalda, a six-year-old working-class Argentine girl who has strong opinions about contemporary politics. This idealist with a left-of-center point of view dreams of working as an interpreter for the United Nations when she grows up. Here instead of playing the role, she is consigned to cleaning up after the G-8. The lone representative from Latin America, she is not a guest but a servant.\n\nHe is not the first artist to record the impact of globalization but is among the most experienced of them not only for his skill as painter but for the complexity of his view of the transformations that have occurred as a result of unbridled extreme of human ambition. He reflects on the passive acceptance of change and the gradual deformation of the environment, especially of cities, the tight-knit, human-built megalopolis that refers to no specific city but instead suggest many. He does not simply scold and accuse. He shows us a world in which cultures fuse with some, overpowering and contaminating others. He makes scenic paintings about cultural collision, environmental degradation, dehumanizing slums, and violence through attrition.\n\nOiwa works in modules, each panel . While living and working in Japan, he uses the dimensions of the traditional tatami: . But when he moved to London in 1996, he translated this idea into English by opting for the size of the British sheet of plywood. He lines up the panels edge-to-edge, to make a painting from one to six panels. The system is not only convenient for shipping and storing, it takes advantage of the benefits of a grid, giving a sense of order against which Oiwa’s panoramic and often apocalyptic vision unfurls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14719995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14719995", "title": "Plan of Campaign", "text": "Plan of Campaign\n\nThe Plan of Campaign was a stratagem adopted in Ireland between 1886 and 1891, co-ordinated by Irish politicians for the benefit of tenant farmers, against mainly absentee and rack-rent landlords. It was launched to counter agricultural distress caused by the continual depression in prices of dairy products and cattle from the mid-1870s, which left many tenants in arrears with rent. Bad weather in 1885 and 1886 also caused crop failure, making it harder to pay rents. The Land War of the early 1880s was about to be renewed after evictions increased and outrages became widespread.\nThe Plan, conceived by Timothy Healy was devised and organised by Timothy Harrington secretary of the Irish National League, William O'Brien and John Dillon. It was outlined in an article headed \"Plan of Campaign\" by Harrington which was published on 23 October 1886 in the League's newspaper, the \"United Irishman\" of which O'Brien was editor. The purpose of the Plan was to secure a reduction of rent where tenants considered themselves overburdened in consequence of a poor harvest: if a landlord refused to accept a reduced rent, the tenants were to pay no rent at all. The rents were then collected by campaigners who banked them in the name of a National League committee of trustees and were to be used to assist evicted tenants who had risked eviction in the hope of rapid fair-rent reinstatement. \n\nA Land Commission had been established under the Land Law (Ireland) Act 1881 to review and reduce rents where they were clearly unpayable, securing an average reduction of 25%. The Campaign sought to further reduce the amounts by concerted action, and ideally by negotiation.\n\nThe measures were to be put into operation on 203 estates, mainly in the south and west of the country though including some scattered Ulster estates. Initially sixty landlords accepted the reduced rents, twenty-four holding out but then agreeing the tenant conditions. Tenants gave in on fifteen estates. The chief trouble occurred on the remaining large estates. The organisers of the Plan decided to test a number of these expecting the remainder would then give in. Widespread attention was focused on it being implemented by Dillon and O'Brien on the estate of the Marquess of Clanricarde at Portumna, County Galway (19 November 1886), where the landlord was an absentee ascendancy landlord. The estate comprising , or 21,000 hectare, yielded 25,000 sterling yearly in rents paid by 1,900 tenants. The hard-pressed tenants looked for a reduction of twenty-five percent. The landlord refused to give any abatement. The tenant's reduced rents were then placed into an estate fund, and the landlord informed he would only receive the monies when he agreed to the reduction. Tenants on other estate then followed the example of the Clanricarde tenants, the Plan on each estate led by a member of the Irish Parliamentary Party Campaign activists including Pat O'Brien, Alexander Blane or members of its constituency organisation, the National League. Some 20,000 tenants were involved.\n\nCharles Stewart Parnell, leader of the Irish Parliamentary Party, had been concentrating on winning over the British electorate to Irish Home Rule prior to the 1885 elections. William Gladstone, leader of the Liberal Party then in power, had come under Parnell's sway and committed himself like a ferocious evangelist to introducing Home Rule as \"justice for Ireland\". The election in November saw Parnell with 86 seats holding the balance of power in the House of Commons. Gladstone then introduced the First Irish Home Rule Bill in April 1886. Immediately, Unionists and the Conservative Party mounted opposition throughout Britain. Gladstone's party split on the issue, with his wealthier supporters forming the Liberal Unionist Party. On its second reading in June, the Bill was defeated by 341 seats to 311, and Parliament was dissolved. The ensuing election brought a majority of 118 for the Conservatives and their Liberal Unionist allies over the combined Irish and Liberal members, reflecting the threat felt by Home Rule.\n\nUndaunted, and certain Home Rule's time would yet come, Parnell in the aftermath of the Home Rule Bill dissociated himself from the launching of the Plan of Campaign, after agrarian war flared up again, fearing to identify Home Rule and constitutional nationalism with militant agrarian violence. His more canny supporters wanted to secure the votes of the growing low-to-middle income electorate and felt that their own campaign would head off any support for the more radical Michael Davitt. Essentially they were copying Davitt's earlier methods without his more radical policy.\n\nIn December 1886, Lord Salisbury's Conservative government declared the Campaign to be \"an unlawful and criminal conspiracy\". Parnell, unable to prevent it, persuaded O'Brien to confine it at that stage to the estates upon which it was operating. However, the campaigners had moral support from the Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, William Walsh, and from the Archbishop of Cashel, Thomas William Croke. Many other bishops supported it, while opposition was led by the Bishop of Limerick, Edward O'Dwyer. A complication for the church was that it had lent money to larger Catholic landlords, such as the Earl of Granard in Longford, who could not pay their mortgage payments to the Church when receiving no rents.\n\nThe renewal of the Land War in the form of the Campaign, was a matter of grave concern to the government and, determined to crush it, Salisbury appointed his nephew, Arthur Balfour, fresh from his attack on the Scottish Land League, to the post of Chief Secretary of Ireland. Balfour secured a tough Irish Coercion Act or Perpetual Crimes Act (1887), aimed at the prevention of boycotting, intimidation, unlawful assembly and the organisation of conspiracies against the payment of rents. The Act resulted in the imprisonment of hundreds of people including over twenty MPs, all of whom had done no more than help evicted tenants. The so-called 'Crimes Act' (or \"Coercion\" Act) was condemned by the Catholic hierarchy, for it was to become a permanent part of the law and did not have to be renewed annually by parliament. Trial by jury was abolished. Balfour also had the National League declared illegal and its many branches suppressed. He went further and sent armed police and soldiers to evict tenants, using battering rams against small cottages after sieges of several days. These dramatic scenes were reported by the press around the world and aroused much sympathy in Britain for those evicted.\n\nDillon and O'Brien were arrested, and, when their supporters started a public defence fund, Archbishop Croke issued a \"No Tax Manifesto\" which prompted Balfour to consider imprisoning him also. Two priests, Fr. Matt Ryan and Fr. Daniel Keller, both within Croke's archdiocese, were imprisoned. Balfour defended Divisional Magistrate Plunkett's injunction to the police under threat: \"Do not hesitate to shoot\", in the House of Commons. Later in 1887, when O’Brien and a local Tipperary farmer John Mandeville were taken for trial to Mitchelstown, Dillon was present and after he delivered a speech denouncing Balfour, the crowd of 8,000 threw stones at the police, who retreated and then opened fire, killing three people in what became known as the \"Mitchelstown Massacre\". Balfour defended his subordinates, for which O'Brien dubbed him \"Bloody Balfour\" in the House of Commons.\n\nThe Parnell Commission hearings in 1888–89 exonerated Parnell from involvement with murders in 1882, but also revealed a great amount of violence and intimidation. In hindsight the government felt justified in enacting special criminal laws for special circumstances.\n\nThe rising crime rate and general unrest forced Balfour to more subtle strategies by seeking Vatican assistance to suppress clergymen involved in the Plan. In answer Pope Leo XIII despatched Archbishop Persico to Ireland, who travelled throughout the country from July 1887 until January 1888, consulting prominent members of the hierarchy. A Papal Rescript (20 April 1888) condemned the Plan and all clerical involvement in it as well as boycotting, followed in June by the Papal encyclical \"Saepe Nos\" that was addressed to all the Irish bishops.\n\nThis was openly denounced as an impertinence by the Irish MPs and the clergy itself divided on the issue. A general resentment of the Vatican's intrusion into Irish affairs helped to win some support for the Plan, which was by now in financial difficulties. That ran counter to the Ultramontane policy adopted by Cardinal Cullen since the 1850s, which included total obedience to papal decrees. Suspicion arose that the encyclical was issued in hopes that Britain and the Papacy would appoint ambassadors to each other and establish diplomatic relations.\n\nThe covering letter with the encyclical was written by Raffaele Monaco La Valletta, Cardinal Secretary of the Holy Office, and included:\n\nPersico later commented, \"I had no idea that anything had been done about Irish affairs, much less thought that some questions had been referred to the Holy Office, and the first knowledge I had of the decree was on the morning of the 28th April, when I received the bare circular sent me by Propaganda. I must add that had I known of such a thing I would have felt it my duty to make proper representations to the Holy See\".\n\nPersico was rewarded soon after his return by the Vicariate of the Vatican Seminary and in 1893 was appointed a Cardinal.\n\nBalfour encouraged the landlords in 1889 to form an anti-tenant syndicate under the chairmanship of Tipperary landlord and High Sheriff of Cork, Arthur Smith-Barry. As the landlord's agent, Smith-Barry, ennobled as Lord Barrymore, was authorised to buy up estates which were threatened by the Plan and then evict the tenants, which he carried out in the case of the Charles Ponsonby estate in Youghal. This brought him into conflict with his own tenants, largely the tenants of Tipperary town, who in anger refused to pay rents. When evicted they moved with their shops to pursue their livelihoods outside the town boundaries and built 'New' Tipperary under the direction of Fr. David Humphreys and O'Brien, just released from prison. The Tipperary project, comprising two streets with houses, proved too costly for the Plan's leaders and this led to its defeat. By this time Parnell had been induced to give some support which helped in the formation of a Tenants' Defence Association in Tipperary and this, along with Dillon's raised money, enabled the Plan to continue. The organisers had £84,000 in 1890 but this had shrunk to £48,000 within a year, by which time almost 1,500 tenants were receiving grants from the Plan funds.\n\nThe organisation looked unavailingly to Parnell for further help. In the course of a speech he delivered in May 1888 to the Liberal Eighty Club, Parnell, concerned that it would otherwise harm his alliance with the Liberals, virtually renounced his association with the Plan, this disunity with his party a precursor of the more momentous split to come. The organisers were forced to seek financial assistance elsewhere and Dillon embarked on a fund-raising drive in Australia and New Zealand (May 1889 – April 1890) which raised some £33,000, but this was insufficient for their needs. In October Dillon and O'Brien jumped bail and escaped to France, and from there to America where they were empowered by Parnell to raise more money (£61,000, which he intended for the Irish party).\n\nParnell also had to distance himself from the Campaign during the Parnell Commission hearings in 1888–89. While the main outcome was very favourable to him, much of the surrounding evidence suggested that the organisers of the Campaign and the former Land War had incited, or were complicit in, the attendant violence.\n\nAs Balfour had hoped, the organisers found it difficult to raise enough money to pay stipends to those evicted during the Campaign and now forced to live on party doles. By 1893 the Campaign was over. It had resulted in settlements on eighty-four estates; on fifteen estates the tenants had gone back on the landlords' terms and no settlement had been reached on the remaining. Although the organisers claimed they had been victorious, the price paid was high, the huge expenditure involved, the hardship suffered by those imprisoned under the Coercion Acts (also known as \"Crimes Acts\"), the tragedy of those evicted whose farms fell into dire neglect, some not restored to their farms until 1907, and the subsequent embittered relationship between the parties on estates where the landlord had given in.\n\nThe Campaign attracted many British and foreign journalists to Ireland as well as Liberal MPs some of whom were imprisoned under the Coercion Acts, which increased sympathy for Home Rule. The Conservative Party as a result of its mishandling lost sympathy among the working classes in Britain. Balfour however in the following decade, surprisingly, became one of Ireland's better Chief Secretaries, when he amended and introduced new land acts, encouraged various economic schemes, local industries, extension of the railways and the introduction of local government. His approach, much in keeping with his character, had been from the beginning two-pronged – \"I shall be as relentless as Cromwell in enforcing obedience to the law, but, at the same time, I shall be as radical as any reformer in redressing grievances and especially in removing every cause of complaint in regard to the land\".\n\nIn December 1890, following the verdict in the '’O'Shea v O'Shea and Parnell'’ divorce case the IPP split. This diverted attention from the Campaign which slowly petered out. The IPP also wanted to disassociate itself from the more violent aspects on the approach to the Second Home Rule Bill that narrowly succeeded with a majority of 30 in the House of Commons but was then defeated by the House of Lords in 1893.\n\nThe Irish land question was addressed after the 1902 Land Conference by the main reforming \"Wyndham Land (Purchase) Act\" of 1903, during Balfour's short tenure as Prime Minister in 1902–05, allowing Irish tenant farmers to buy the freehold title to their land with low annuities and affordable government-backed loans.\n\n"}
{"id": "37682515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37682515", "title": "Pluricontinentalism", "text": "Pluricontinentalism\n\nPluricontinentalism (Portuguese: \"Pluricontinentalismo\") was a geopolitical concept, positing that Portugal was a transcontinental country and a unitary nation-state consisting of continental Portugal and its overseas provinces.\n\nWith origins as early as the 14th century, pluricontinentalism gained official state sponsorship in the Estado Novo regime. \n\nIt was the idea that Portugal was not a colonial empire (Portuguese Empire), but a singular nation state spread across continents (hence the name).\n\nThe first time that Portugal was a pluricontinental country was during the reign of Maria I of Portugal, with the creation of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil, and the Algarves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7513320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7513320", "title": "Pomperipossa in Monismania", "text": "Pomperipossa in Monismania\n\n\"Pomperipossa in Monismania\" (also called Pomperipossa in the World Of Money) is a satirical story written by the Swedish children's book author Astrid Lindgren in response to the 102% marginal tax rate that she incurred in 1976. It was published starting on 3 March 1976 in the Stockholm evening tabloid \"Expressen\" and created a major debate about the Swedish tax system.\n\nThe marginal tax rate above 100%, dubbed the 'Pomperipossa effect', was due to tax legislation that required self-employed individuals to pay both regular income tax and employer's fees.\n\nThe story, a satirical allegory about a writer of children's books in a distant country, led to a stormy tax debate and is often attributed as a decisive factor in the defeat of the Swedish Social Democratic Party, for the first time in 40 years, in the elections later the same year. Lindgren, however, continued to support the party for all her life.\n\n"}
{"id": "13411926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13411926", "title": "Propylene glycol alginate", "text": "Propylene glycol alginate\n\nPropylene glycol alginate (PGA) is an emulsifier, stabilizer, and thickener used in food products. It is a food additive with E number E405. Chemically, propylene glycol alginate is an ester of alginic acid, which is derived from kelp. Some of the carboxyl groups are esterified with propylene glycol, some are neutralized with an appropriate alkali, and some remain free.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25750257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25750257", "title": "Rappenkrieg (Basel)", "text": "Rappenkrieg (Basel)\n\nThe Rappenkrieg was a peasant uprising lasting from 1591–1594, involving a conflict between the Swiss city of Basel and the surrounding Prince-Bishopric of Basel. \n\nAt issue was an increase in the rate of sales tax on wine and meat. After several years the conflict was ended through negotiations headed up by the Basel merchant turned politician .\n\nThe name \"Rappenkrieg\" comes from the local word, Rappen, then as now the term for a low value coin: \"Rappenkrieg\" can be loosely translated as the \"Pence/Cents War\".\n\nThe Basel Rappenkrieg is not to be confused with the \"Rappenkrieg\" in Western Austria from 1612 to 1614 in the adjacent Fricktal and the Rhine, although both had similar causes.\n\nThe economic backdrop was furnished by agricultural prices which had risen to record high levels as a result of population increase, the splitting of small holdings on inheritance, and resulting shortage of land. This was occurring in the context of a succession of poor harvests attributed by some historians to a \"Little Ice Age\".\n\nThe political context from the second half of the sixteenth century included a sustained increase in religious tensions as protestantism grew in popularity among the citizenry in this part of the Swiss confederation, while the Roman Catholic Prince-Bishops of Basel, galvanized into an increasingly active fight-back by the Counter-reformation, lost respect and influence.\n\nIn 1575 Jakob Christoph Blarer von Wartensee, the newly appointed Prince-Bishop of Basel, committed himself to the of the entire region, and in 1579 he secured alliances with the principal catholic towns and territories locally. \nHis relationship with the Swiss city of Basel was now polarised along religious lines. The city found itself increasingly isolated among its more regiously conservative Swiss confederate neighbours, and was obliged to agree to the 1585 , a principal feature of which was the requirement to make prince bishop an enormous payment of 200,000 Guilders. The Baden Agreement was seen at the time as a major victory for the counter-reformation.\n\nIn order to raise the necessary money, the city decided to increase taxes on wine and meat with effect from January 1591. Already under growing economic pressure, the farmers protested against this major tax increase, but the city rejected their protest and marking out their representatives as potential troublemakers. Relations deteriorated and the protests degenerated into an insurrection. A notable spokesman for the farmers was a protestant from Liestal called Osimus Battmann, was singled out for blame by the city government. \nBattmann was arrested for a second time in September 1593 and subjected to intensive questioning which may have amounted to torture.\n\nThe city fathers maintained a hard line against the insurgency. Other measures were taken including a decree forbidding inn keepings from plying their trade. The conflict became more militarised when the insurgents tried to prevent implentation of the decree by force. Fifty soldiers were sent to Liestal on 13 May 1594 under the command of to put down the insurrection. Two days later, an unsuccessful attempt was made to arrest Hans Siegrist from Niederdorf, one of the movement's leaders. This escalated the affair and the angry farmers responded by taking up their arms and gathering on the beside to the castle at Wildenstein. For his part Ryff, now with a force of 170 men confronted the rebels. It now turned out that Ryff was willing to use a diplomatic combination of sympathy and menace on behalf of the city in order to try and avert the threat of a wider civil war. There followed several days of uncertainty and negotiation between Siegrist and Ryff until eventually Ryff managed to persuade his compatriots that a tax increase was necessary. \n\nThe compromise agreed involved restricting the tax increase on wine to three times its pre-crisis level. The insurgents were spared punishment and it was agreed that they would not be fined for the expenses which their protest had imposed on the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3678982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3678982", "title": "Royal Society of St George", "text": "Royal Society of St George\n\nThe Royal Society of St George is an English patriotic society established in 1894 to encourage interest in the English way of life, and English customs and traditions.\n\nIn 1415 St. George became the Patron Saint of England after the English soldiers fighting under the command of King Henry V had beaten the French at the Battle of Agincourt. Ever since then, St George has been the patriotic rallying point for the English people.\n\nBefore the formation of The Royal Society of St. George and the American Revolution, Societies of St. George had been founded in the then North American Colonies for the relief of British immigrants and to give them general assistance in the new country. The earliest Branches of which there are any records are those of New York (1770), Philadelphia (1772) and Charlestown (1773). Subsequently Branches were formed in all the great cities of the North American continent and celebrations were always held on St. George's Day. At the time of the War of Independence many Loyalists moved to Canada and founded similar Societies in Halifax (1786) and other cities.\n\nHoward Ruff was the founder in 1894 and the first Honorary Secretary of the Royal Society of St. George. In 1900 he gave up farming to devote his time exclusively to the Society. The Society's first Royal Patron was Queen Victoria - each monarch since has been the patron of the Society.\n\nThe Society is incorporated by a Royal Charter which was presented by Elizabeth II in 1963 and has its own Armorial Bearings granted under Letters Patent in 1990 and also now has members and branches around the world.\n\nToday the Society considers itself as the standard bearer of traditional English values, both at home and abroad. Of itself, the Society says, our \nThe objects are specified in the terms of its Royal Charter:\n\n\nThe Society runs its own charity - No. 263076.\n\nThe objectives of the charity are to:\n\nMembership of the Society is open to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35286722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35286722", "title": "SNV (typeface)", "text": "SNV (typeface)\n\nSNV (also called VSS) is a sans-serif typeface used on road signs in several European countries. It was originally defined by the Association of Swiss Road Traffic Experts (, VSS) and the Swiss Association for Standardization (\"\", SNV). \n\nIn Switzerland, it was replaced on road signs by ASTRA-Frutiger in 2003. It is still used on road signs in Belgium, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, Romania and the countries of the former Yugoslavia: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Slovenia.\n"}
{"id": "55608199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55608199", "title": "Senior Whip of the National Party", "text": "Senior Whip of the National Party\n\nThe New Zealand National Party's Senior Whip administers the “whipping in” system that tries to ensure that party MPs attend and vote according to the party leadership's wishes.\n\nThe party's current senior whip is Jami-Lee Ross, who sits for the Botany electorate, elected May 2017. The junior whip is Barbara Kuriger (MP for Taranaki-King Country) and third whip is Tim van de Molen (MP for Waikato).\n\n"}
{"id": "39787891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39787891", "title": "Simon Wolf Oppenheimer", "text": "Simon Wolf Oppenheimer\n\nSimon Wolf Oppenheimer (died 10 November 1726) was a German Jewish banker and Court Jew of the Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg in Hanover. He was the son of Samuel Oppenheimer, and was married to Frade Behrends, the granddaughter of Leffmann Behrends.\n\nThe astronomer Raphael Levi Hannover was a bookkeeper in his firm. His son Jacob Wolf Oppenheimer took over his banking business after his death in 1726, and later employed Mayer Amschel Rothschild as an apprentice between 1757 and 1763.\n"}
{"id": "22776833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22776833", "title": "Timeline of Burgundian and Habsburg acquisitions in the Low Countries", "text": "Timeline of Burgundian and Habsburg acquisitions in the Low Countries\n\nAround the 13th and early 14th century, various Dutch cities became so important that they started playing a major role in the political and economical affairs of their respective fiefs.\nAt the same time, the political system of relatively petty lords was ending, and stronger rulers (with actual power over larger territories) started to emerge.\n\nIn the case of the Dutch, these two developments resulted in the political unification of all Dutch fiefs within a supra-regional state. This process started in the 14th century, with the Flemish cities gaining previously unseen powers over their county.\nWhen Louis II, Count of Flanders, died without a male heir, these cities (Bruges, Ypres, and Ghent) arranged a marriage between his daughter and the Duke of Burgundy. By doing this, they set in motion a chain of events eventually leading to the Burgundian and, in 1482, the Habsburg Netherlands.\n\n\n\nPolitically, the Burgundian and Habsburg periods were of tremendous importance to the Dutch, as the various Dutch fiefs were now united politically into one single entity. The period ended in great turmoil, as the rise of Protestantism, the centralist policies of the Habsburg Empire, and other factors resulted in the Dutch Revolt and the Eighty Years' War.\n\n"}
{"id": "24900408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24900408", "title": "Union des progressistes juifs de Belgique", "text": "Union des progressistes juifs de Belgique\n\nThe Union des progressistes juifs de Belgique (UPJB, Union of Progressive Jews of Belgium) is a Belgian Jewish organization set up in 1939 as \"Solidarité juive\" (Jewish Solidarity) by antifascist Jews in Belgium, becoming in 1946 \"Solidarité juive, aide aux victimes de l'oppresseur nazi\" (Jewish Solidarity, help to the victims of the Nazi oppressor). It took on its present name in 1969.\n\nJust before WWII, refugees from Nazism came to Belgium, some clandestinely. Jews and communists were heavily represented among them, some of whom assembled in informal movements such as \"Main-d'oeuvre étrangère\" and \"Main-d'œuvre immigrée\" (as in neighbouring France). Aid associations were created, such as \"Le Secours rouge\" (Red Relief). When the war began, \"Solidarité juive\" was one of these associations and worked closely with the \"Comité de Défense des Juifs\", and with \"Secours mutuel\" (left-wing Zionists). Members of \"Solidarité juive\" were active in rescuing and hiding Jewish children, but also as armed partisans in the \"Front de l'Indépendance\" and as information agents in Leopold Trepper's Red Orchestra, based in Brussels.\n\nThe objective of the UPJB is \"The promotion of a contemporary, secular, and progressive Judaism in the diaspora, in the filiation of the struggle of the workers movement and of the anti-Nazi resistance\".\n\nThe UPJB is not a member of the \"Comité de coordination des organisations juives de Belgique\" (CCOJB, Coordination Committee of Belgium's Jewish Organizations), the Belgian chapter of the World Jewish Congress, because it disagrees with one of its Zionist statutory clauses, \"the association has for purpose the fight (...) for the support by all appropriate means of the State of Israel, spiritual centre of Judaism and safe haven of threatened Jewish communities\".\n\nIn 2001, UPJB, through an open letter signed by its then president Elie Gross, supported the main Belgian French-speaking daily \"Le Soir\" during a campaign from the Belgian Zionist organizations, including the CCOJB, which accused its journalists of a systemic anti-Israeli bias.\n\nIn 2004-2005 the UPJB was member of the COIFE (, Collective of associations opposed to forbidding headscarf at school), comprising fifty-odd organizations.\n\nSince 2003, the UPJB has been affiliated to the European Jews for a Just Peace network, which comprises 17 Jewish organizations from nine European countries.\n\nAs of September 2017, the present president of the UPJB is Carine Bratzlavsky. Her predecessors were Jacques Ravedovitz (b. 1949), Henri Wajnblum (b. 1938) and Elie Gross (d. 2003).\n\nThe monthly magazine of the UPJB is named \"Points critiques.\" As of September 2017 it is only available in print and on subscription.\n"}
{"id": "4426726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4426726", "title": "Župan", "text": "Župan\n\nŽupan is a noble and administrative title used in several states in Central and Southeastern Europe between the 7th century and the 21st century. It was (and in Croatia still is) the leader of the administrative unit župa (or zhupa, županija). The term in turn was adopted by the Hungarians as \"ispán\" and spread further.\n\nThe exact origin of the title is not definitively known and there have been several hypotheses: Slavic (F. Miklošič), Turkic-Avarian (A. Bruckner), Iranian (F. Altheim), Proto Indo-European (V. Machek), Indo-European (D. Dragojević), Illyrian-Thracian (K. Oštir), Old-Balkan (M. Budimir), among others. The title was preserved primarily among the Slavic peoples and their neighbours who were under their influence. Its presence among Pannonian Avars and Avar language is completely undetermined. On the contrary of a specific theory, it should be noted that the title origin is not necessarily related to the origin of the titleholder.\n\nIn 2009, A. Alemany considered that the title \"*ču(b)-pān\", often in a northeastern Iranian milleu, had an Eastern and Central Asian derivation, \"čupan\", and a Western and European derivation, \"župan\". The Eastern \"čupan\" first occurs, but allegedly as is usually connected with \"čupan\", in a Bactrian contract dated to 588 AD, where are mentioned two \"headman\" (\"σωπανο\", \"sopano\"); among the Western Turks (582-657), the leader of the fifth Shunishi Dulu tribe was a \"chuban chuo\" (\"čupan čor\"), while the leader of the fifth Geshu Nushibi tribe was \"chuban sijin\" (\"čupan irkin\"), with \"chuo\" and \"sijin\" being the standard title of the each tribe's leader, inferior to \"qayan\" (khagan), but superior to \"bäg\". However, there is no mention of \"čupan\" in Old Turkic runic incsriptions; a Chinese document (c. 8th century) near Kucha mentions severals persons (allegedly Tocharians) with patronymic Bai and title \"chuban\"; in the same century, in the Chinese documents of province Khotan are mentioned word \"chiban\" and alleged title of low rank \"chaupam\"; the first (Old) Turkic document recording the title \"čupan\" is a Uyghur decree from Turpan dated c. 9th-11th century. According to the work \"Dīwānu l-Luġat al-Turk\" by the 11th century scholar Mahmud al-Kashgari, a \"čupan\" is an assistant to a village headman.\n\nThe first known mention of Western \"župan\" occurs in a charter of Kremsmünster abbey, by Bavarian duke Tassilo III in 777 AD, in which the monastery was granted by a group of Slavs, headed by the chieftains Taliup and Sparuna, whose abode lied beneath the boundaries reported under oath by the \"iopan\" Physso; the \"zo(ō)apan\" of Buyla inscription on a buckled bowl of a heterogeneous and chronologically uncertain (7th or 8th century) Treasure of Nagyszentmiklós; the \"supan\" in Lusatian and Latin language (7th century): the \"ζουπανος\" (zoupanos) on a silver bowl found at Veliki Preslav, capital of First Bulgarian Empire (893-972), and \"zhupan\" in Greek stone inscriptions and Cyrillic alphabet (Codex Suprasliensis) ; the \"zuppanis\" in Latin charter of St. George's church at Putalj by Croatian duke Trpimir in 852 AD; the Slavic, generally considered of White Croats, title of king's deputy mentioned by Ibn Rusta in the 10th century, the \"sūt.ğ\" or \"sūb.ğ\", of which corrupted text some transcribe as \"sūbanğ\" (probably Turkic \"sū beḫ\"); according to Constantine VII in his 10th century work \"De Administrando Imperio\", Croats, Serbs and other Slavic nations of Dalmatia had the \"ζουπάνους\" (zoupanous), \"Princes, as they say, these nations had none, but only \"župans\", elders, as is the rule in the other Slavonic regions\"; also the Croatian state was divided in 11 \"ζουπανίας\" (zoupanias) administrative regions, with additional three ruled by \"βοάνος\" (boanos) or \"μπάνος\" (b/mpanos) (Ban); and is individually mentioned \"ζουπανου\" (zoupanou) Beloje of Travunia; later among Serbs it also temporary became a title for supreme leader \" ζουπανος μεγας\" (zoupanos megas, Grand Župan); in Czech sources \"supani\" (1187).\n\nIn Polish, Czech, Slovak and Ukrainian allegedly from \"župan\" was shortened to \"pan\", meaning \"master, mister, sir\".\n\n\nHowever, as the title among Avars is undetermined, on the basis of preserved toponyms which are etymologically related to the title župan, like \"Županovo kolo\" in Novgorod, Russia, and \"Župany kolo\" in Ukraine, as well it was spread in Slavic languages which were not in contact with Avar language, the assumption it was of Avar origin is highly doubtful and dismissed by many scholars as it occurs in wider area than is the area where lived Slavs and Avars together.\n\nThe title had a widespread distribution, and did not always had a concrete institutional definition. Slavic tribes were divided into fraternities, each including a certain number of families. The territory inhabited by a tribe was a \"župa\", and its leader was the \"župan\".\n\nThe \"župans\", once as \"kopan\", of the First Bulgarian Empire are traditionally seen as Slavic chiefs, or leaders of a local tribe and district.\nThe \"župan\" title was also used in Wallachia and Moldavia (in modern Romania) but only with the meaning \"mister\" and bearing no administrative connotations. \n\nAs heads of the \"županija\", the most important role of the \"župans\" were their public authority function. They were the \"primates populi\", nobile aristocracy from where the king (or duke) recruited the official servants. Those \"župans\" by origin most probably belonged to the tribal or noble family structure, in historiography known as \"twelve tribes\", which are mentioned in the Pacta conventa and Supetar Cartulary. In the Supetar Cartulary, and in Croatian redaction of Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja, they were called as \"nobile sapienciroes\" and \"starac\" (elderman), indicating that to the agreement with king Coloman went twelve \"elders župan\".\n\nAccording to the charter by Croatian duke Muncimir (892 AD) it can be identified various official functions; \"župans\" who work at the ducal palace (\"Budimiro zuppani palatii\", \"Prisna maccererarii\", \"Pruade zuppano cauallario\", \"Zelestro zuppano camerario\", \"Zestededo zuppano pincernario\", \"Bolledrago zuppano carnicario\", \"Budimiro zuppano comitisse\", \"Augina zuppano armigeri\"), who are part of territorial organization (\"Zelllerico zuppano Cleoniae\", \"Sibidrago zuppano Clesae\"), or are only noble by position (\"Petro zuppano\", \"Pribritreco filius Petri zuppano\"). The \"župans\" were usually listed in historical documents only as witnesses, without mark of duty.\n\nThe transition of 12th to the 13th century is characterized by terminological change of the title \"župan\" and the spreading beyond the tribal main territory. The older social rank of the \"župan\" (\"iupanus\") in Latin documents was changed with the title \"comes\". The Latin term \"comes\" in the 14th and 15th century Croatia was translated in two different ways, as \"špan\" and \"knez\". The first signified the royal official in the \"županija\", while the second the hereditary lord of the \"županija\" exempted from the direct royal rule. Thus the term lost its old tribal and got a new administrative meaning, while the old Croatian tribes (genus) under the title of \"knez\" preserved the inheritance rights over the lands of \"županija\".\n\nThere were several \"ispán\"'s in the royal court of Hungarian Kingdom: 'nádorispán' (palatine), 'udvarispán' (court ispán), 'kápolna ispán' (chapel ispán), and 'ispán's of the financial hierarchy ('harmincadispán', 'pénzverőispán', 'sókamaraispán', 'urburaispán'). Similarly the leaders of the ethnic groups were called 'ispán' like 'besenyők ispánja' (Besermian ispán) 'székelyispán' (Szekler ispán).\n\nAccording to Fine, the governorship was hereditary, and the \"župan\" reported to the Serbian prince, whom they were obliged to aid in war. The earlier \"župan\" title was abolished and replaced with the Greek-derived \"kefalija\" (\"kephale\", \"head, master\").\n\nThe title \"župan\" is widely used as an informal name for presidents of self-governing regions (\"župa\") in Slovakia.\n\n\n"}
