{"id": "1416758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416758", "title": "Ad infinitum", "text": "Ad infinitum\n\nAd infinitum is a Latin phrase meaning \"to infinity\" or \"forevermore\".\n\nIn context, it usually means \"continue forever, without limit\" and this can be used to describe a non-terminating process, a non-terminating \"repeating\" process, or a set of instructions to be repeated \"forever,\" among other uses. It may also be used in a manner similar to the Latin phrase \"et cetera\" to denote written words or a concept that continues for a lengthy period beyond what is shown. Examples include:\n\n<poem>\nThe vermin only teaze and pinch\nTheir foes superior by an inch.\nSo, naturalists observe, a flea\nHas smaller fleas that on him prey;\nAnd these have smaller still to bite 'em,\nAnd so proceed \"ad infinitum\".\nThus every poet, in his kind,\nIs bit by him that comes behind</poem>\n\n\n__notoc__\n"}
{"id": "2908506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2908506", "title": "Amazing Engine", "text": "Amazing Engine\n\nAmazing Engine was a series of role-playing game books that was published by TSR, Inc. from 1993 until 1994. It was a generic role-playing game system -\neach publication employed the same minimalist generic rules, as described in the \"Amazing Engine System Guide\", but each world book had an entirely different setting or genre. David \"Zeb\" Cook was credited with the design of the game rules.\n\nIn 1993 TSR closed down all of its subsidiary roleplaying lines, from \"Gamma World\" and \"Marvel Super Heroes\" to \"Basic D&D\", and soon replaced these with a new universal game system released via the \"Amazing Engine System Guide\" (1993). \"Amazing Engine\" was a simple beginner's system, and after the initial rulebook, TSR started publishing setting books, each of which presented a different milieu to play the game in. After 1994, \"Amazing Engine\" was cancelled as well. \"Alternity\" was intended to be TSR's generic science-fiction system, a replacement for \"Amazing Engine\".\n\nIn \"Amazing Engine\", player characters are generated with a set of four core statistics. The core stats were intended to be migrated from book to book, keeping a general character design concept. These stats were then used to build random ability scores, basic characteristics, and skills. The skills have prerequisites which must first be learned. Skill checks are made using percentile dice.\n\nBelow you'll find summary information for the published worldbooks.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1556860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1556860", "title": "Archenemy", "text": "Archenemy\n\nAn archenemy (sometimes spelled arch-enemy) is the main enemy of someone. In fiction, it is a character who is the hero's or protagonist's most prominent and worst enemy.\n\nThe word \"archenemy\" or \"arch-enemy\" originated around the mid-16th century, from the words \"arch-\" (from Greek ἄρχω \"archo\" meaning \"to lead\") and \"enemy\".\n\nAn archenemy may also be referred to as archrival, archfoe, archvillain, or archnemesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "3625869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3625869", "title": "Bashing (pejorative)", "text": "Bashing (pejorative)\n\nBashing is a harsh, gratuitous, prejudicial attack on a person, group, or subject. Literally, bashing is a term meaning to hit or assault, but when it is used as a suffix, or in conjunction with a noun indicating the subject being attacked, it is normally used to imply that the act is motivated by bigotry.\nThe term is also used metaphorically, to describe verbal or critical assaults. Topics which attract bashing tend to be highly partisan and personally sensitive topics for the bashers, the victims, or both. Common areas include religion, nationality, sexuality, and politics.\n\nPhysical bashing is differentiated from regular assault because it is a motivated assault, which may be considered a hate crime. In relation to non-physical bashing, the term is used to imply that a verbal or critical attack is similarly unacceptable and similarly prejudicial. Use of the term in this manner is an abusive ad hominem action, used to denounce the attack and admonish the attackers by comparing them to perpetrators of physical bashing.\n\nKaren Franklin, in her paper \"Psychosocial motivations of hate crimes perpetrators\" identifies the following motivations for bashing: socially instilled prejudice or partisan conflict; the perception that the bashing subject is in some way contrary to, or in offense to, an underlying ideology; group or peer influence.\n\nOne of the more common uses of the term \"bashing\" is to describe assault or vilification of people perceived to be homosexual. Gay-bashing is related to homophobia and religious objections to homosexuality.\n\nIn cases of non-physical bashing, the term is normally used with the intention of having a pejorative effect on the identified bashers by comparing them to perpetrators of criminal assaults. Sometimes this label is applied to criticisms that are not particularly vehement nor even inappropriate. In these cases, the term can be seen to be applied purely for partisan benefit. The use of the term within this context is most common in editorial or personal commentary. These terms are used to imply that the criticism of these groups or individuals is excessive, too frequent, uncompromising, or inappropriate. Since politics is inherently partisan, the term bashing is frequently used to cast negative aspersions on critics for political gain.\n\nFans of different artistic works often accuse critics, who may be other fans, of bashing the subject or individuals upon which the fandom is centered. A common example of this on the internet is \"Lucas bashing\", where the term is used to decry criticism of Star Wars or George Lucas personally. In this case, again the motivations include partisan conflict (for or against an aspect of an artistic work); an offense to an underlying ideology (nostalgic attachment to, or immersion in, an artistic genre); and the group influence of other fans and discussion forums. There is also \"character bashing\", which happens when a part of the fandom openly criticises one or more characters in an artistic work, or even real people from media industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "35982062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35982062", "title": "Biased Competition Theory", "text": "Biased Competition Theory\n\nBiased competition theory advocates the idea that each object in the visual field competes for cortical representation and cognitive processing. This theory suggests that the process of visual processing can be biased by other mental processes such as bottom-up and top-down systems which prioritize certain features of an object or whole items for attention and further processing. Biased competition theory is, simply stated, the competition of objects for processing. This competition can be biased, often toward the object that is currently attended in the visual field, or alternatively toward the object most relevant to behavior.\n\nResearch into the subject of attentional mechanisms in regard to visual perception was undertaken as an attempt to better understand the functional principles and potential constraints surrounding visual perception Visual search tasks are commonly used by experimenters to aid the exploration of visual perception.\nThe classical view of visual attention suggests that there are two basic principles: the pre-attentive stage and the attentive stage. In the pre-attentive stage, an individual has an unlimited capacity for perception which is capable of processing information from the entire visual field concurrently. During the attentive stage, the processing of visual information corresponding to local spatial areas takes place. This classical view of visual attention suggests that there is no competition within the visual field. Within this theory an individual is assumed to be capable of processing all information provided concurrently. Until recently it was still thought that individuals had a pre-attentive stage. This is no longer the case, research has now suggested that the pre-attentive stage is now limited in its capacity. \nThe attentive stage of being able to process important information has now transformed into what is known as selectivity. The classical view of attention has built the ground work for the recent emergence of two new principles to benefit the understanding of visual attention. The first of these relates to the limited capacity of information processing. This suggests that at any given time, only a small amount of information can actually be retained and used to control behaviour. The principle of selectivity incorporates the notion that a person has the ability to filter out unwanted information. Koch and Ullman proposed that attentive selection could be implemented by competitive \"winner-takes-all\" networks.\nRobert Desimone and John Duncan expanded on this idea. They proposed that at some point between the visual input of objects and the response to objects in the visual field there is some competition occurring; competition for representation, analysis, and behavior. This suggests that attention to stimuli makes more demands on processing capacity than unattended stimuli. This idea of competition led researchers to develop a new theory of attention, which they termed the “biased competition theory\". The theory attempts to provide an explanation of the processes leading visual attention and their effects on the brain’s neural systems.\n\nBiased competition serves to prioritize task relevant information to make visual search more efficient. A large amount of visual information is taken in at any given moment and there is a limited capacity available for processing. The visual system therefore needs a way to select relevant information and ignore irrelevant stimuli.\nA visual search usually has a target (e.g. a coffee cup), which is being searched for (task relevant) in the visual environment, and task irrelevant information is ignored. The biasing from neural mechanisms guides the search to logical spatial locations (e.g. the table) and items that have similar semantic or visual features to the item that is being searched for.\nIt has been suggested that more than 30 cortical areas in the visual system are used for the processing of visual stimuli, and that there is competition from objects in the visual field that takes place in multiple areas of this extensive network.\n\nDesimone suggested that the Biased Competition Model comprised five main tenets:\n\nThere are two major neural pathways that process the information in the visual field; the ventral stream and the dorsal stream. The two pathways run in parallel and are both working simultaneously. The ventral stream is important for object recognition and often referred to as the “what” system of the brain; it projects to the inferior temporal cortex. The dorsal stream is important for spatial perception and performance and is referred to as the “where” system which projects to the posterior parietal cortex. According to the biased competition theory, an individual’s visual system has limited capacity to process information about multiple objects at any given time. For example, if an individual was presented with two stimuli (objects) and was asked to identify attributes of each object at the same time, the individual’s performance would be worse in comparison to if the objects were presented separately. This suggests multiple objects presented simultaneously in the visual field will compete for neural representation due to limited processing resources.\nSingle cell recording studies conducted by Kastner and Ungerleider examined the neural mechanisms behind the biased competition theory. In their experiment the size of the receptive field's (RF) of neurons within the visual cortex were examined. A single visual stimulus was presented alone in a neuron’s RF, followed with another stimulus presented simultaneously within the same RF. The single ‘effective’ stimuli produced a low firing rate, whereas the two stimuli presented together produced a high firing rate. The response to the paired stimuli was reduced. This suggests that when two stimuli are presented together within a neuron’s RF, the stimuli are processed in a mutually suppressive manner, rather than being processed independently. This suppression process, according to Kastner and Ungerleider, occurs when two stimuli are presented together because they compete for neural representation, due to limited cognitive processing capacity.\nThe RF experiment suggests that as the number of objects increase, the information available for each object will decrease due to increased neural workload (suppression), and decreased cognitive capacity. In order for an object in the visual field or RF be efficiently processed, there needs to be a way to bias these neurological resources towards the object. Attention prioritizes task relevant objects, biasing this process. For example, this bias can be towards an object which is currently attended to in the visual field or RF, or towards the object that is most relevant to one’s behavior.\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has shown that biased competition theory can explain the observed attention effects at a neuronal level. Attention effects bias the internal weight (strengthens connections) of task relevant features toward the attended object. This was shown by Reddy, Kanwisher, and van Rullen who found an increase in oxygenated blood to a specific neuron following a locational cue. Further neurological support comes from neurophysiological studies which have shown that attention results from Top-down biasing, which in turn influences neuronal spiking. In sum, external inputs affect the Top-down guidance of attention, which bias specific neurons in the brain.\n\nSince the development of Biased Competition Theory much research has been undertaken to validate the theory’s ideas.\nResearch has formulated predictions based on the theoretical model to be tested in experimental settings. Top-down and Bottom-up biases have been tested in order to ascertain the legitimacy of their influence on visual perception and competition as described by Biased Competition Theory. These experiments provide evidence for the idea of feedback biasing as described in Desimone’s five central tenets.\n\nBottom-up processes are characterized by an absence of higher level direction in sensory processing. It primarily relies on sensory information and incoming sensory information is the starting point for all Bottom-up processing. Bottom-up refers to when a feature stands out in a visual search. This is commonly called the “pop-out” effect. Salient features like bright colors, movement and big objects make the object “pop-out” of the visual search. “Pop-out” features can often attract attention without conscious processing. Objects that stand out are often given priority (bias) in processing. Bottom-up processing is data driven, and according to this stimuli are perceived on the basis of the data which is being experienced through the senses.\nEvidence suggests that simultaneously presented stimuli do in fact compete in order to be represented in the visual cortex, with stimuli mutually suppressing each other to gain this representation. This was examined by Reynolds and colleagues, who looked at the size of neurons’ receptive field’s within the visual cortex. It was found that the presentation of a single stimulus resulted in a low firing rate while two stimuli presented together resulted in a higher firing rate. Reynolds and colleagues also found that when comparing the neural response of an individually presented visual stimulus to responses gathered from simultaneously presented stimuli, the responses of the concurrent presented stimuli were less than the sum of the responses gathered when each stimuli was presented alone. This suggests that two stimuli presented together increase neural work load required for attention. This increased neural load creates suppressive processes and causes the stimuli to compete for neural representation in the brain.\nProulx and Egeth predicted that brighter objects would bias attention in favor of that object. Another prediction is that larger objects would bias the attention in favor of that object. The experiment was a computer-based visual search task, where participants searched for a target among distractions. The results of the study suggested that when irrelevant stimuli were large or bright, attention was biased towards the irrelevant objects, prioritizing them for cognitive processing. This research shows the effects of Bottom-up (stimulus-driven) processing on biased competition theory.\n\nA Top-down process is characterized by a high level of direction of sensory processing by more cognition; Top-down processing is based on pre-existing knowledge when interpreting sensory information.\nTop-down guidance of attention refers to when the properties of an object (i.e. color, shape) are activated and held in working memory to facilitate the visual search for that object. This controls visual search by guiding attention only to objects that could be the target and avoiding attention on irrelevant objects. Top-down processes are not a complete representation of the object but are coarse, which is why objects similar in color, shape or meaning are often attended to in the process of discriminating irrelevant objects. There is evidence that observers have Top-down control over the locations that will benefit from biased competition in spatial selection visual tasks. Evidence supports that observers can make voluntary decision about which locations are selected. or features that capture the attention in a stimulus-driven manner.\nNeurophysiology studies have showed that the neural mechanisms in Top-down processing are also seen in attention and working memory, suggesting Top-down processes play an important role in those functions as well. Additionally, Top-down processes can modulate Bottom-up processes by suppressing the “pop-out” features of Bottom-up processing from distracting from the visual search.\nfMRI studies have investigated the Top-down and Bottom-up processes involved in biased competition theory. Results of fMRI suggest that both Bottom-up and Top-down processes work in parallel to bias competition. Multiple studies have shown that stimuli in the visual field suppress each other when presented together, but not when each stimulus is presented alone. Kastner and colleagues also found that directing attention to the specific location of a stimulus reduces the suppressive effect. Increased activity in the visual cortex was also observed; this was the result of Top-down biasing due to the favoring of the attended location.\n\nAnother supposition of Biased Competition Theory, that competition is integrated across multiple systems in the brain (for example, the visual system as well as working memory), is least studied. However, empirical evidence has been undertaken to confirm the authenticity of this claim. Studies have shown this integration of differing brain systems by undertaking neuroimaging research. Activation in the middle temporal area, as well as the fusiform face area was seen when subjects were asked to attend to a moving face. The middle temporal area is involved in the perception of motion, while the fusiform face area is involved in facial recognition, showing the integrated systems of the brain in Biased Competition Theory. Ferrera and Lisberger provided evidence for competitive interactions in the selection of targets for smooth pursuit eye movements.\n"}
{"id": "10302211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10302211", "title": "Blocking effect", "text": "Blocking effect\n\nIn Kamin's blocking effect the conditioning of an association between two stimuli, a conditioned stimulus (CS) and an unconditioned stimulus (US) is impaired if, during the conditioning process, the CS is presented together with a second CS that has already been associated with the unconditioned stimulus.\n\nFor example, an agent (such as a mouse in the figure) is exposed to a light (the first conditioned stimulus, CS1), together with food (the unconditioned stimulus, US). After repeated pairings of CS1 and US, the agent salivates when the light comes on (conditioned response, CR). Then, there are more conditioning trials, this time with the light (CS1) and a tone (CS2) together with the US. Now, when tested, the agent does not salivate to the tone (CS2). In other words, an association between the tone CS2 and the US has been \"blocked\" because the CS1–US association already exists.\n\nThis effect was most famously explained by the Rescorla–Wagner model. The model says, essentially, that if one CS (here the light) already fully predicts that the US will come, nothing will be learned about a second CS (here the tone) that accompanies the first CS. Blocking is an outcome of other models that also base learning on the difference between what is predicted and what actually happens.\n\nWhile some argue that blocking demonstrates that the organism did not learn the association between the CS2 and the US, this is not necessarily the case. For instance, after a traditional blocking paradigm, the CS2 does not elicit a response (alone). However, if the response to the CS1 is extinguished, the organism will begin to respond to CS2 alone. This demonstrates that the association between the CS2 and the US was initially learned but in comparison to the stronger predictive value of the CS1 there is no conditioned response. However, after extinction, the CS2 does have more predictive value than the now extinguished CS1. However, this finding was not replicated in a later, similar study.\n\nThe reverse of blocking is often called backward blocking. In backward blocking, the subject is exposed to the compound stimulus (CS1 and CS2 together) first, and only later to CS1 alone. In some human and animal studies, subjects show a reduction in the association between CS2 and the US, though the effect is often weaker than the standard blocking effect, and vanishes under some conditions. This effect is not predicted by the Rescorla–Wagner model although other models have been proposed that capture this effect.\n\nMaes and colleagues reported fifteen experiments that attempted to replicate the blocking effect. None of them succeeded despite using procedures well-established in previous literature. They argue that publication bias may have produced a false confidence in the robustness of the effect. However, Soto (in press) has questioned this conclusion arguing that they come as a consequence of the type of stimuli used in these studies, and shows how contemporary models of associative learning can predict these results on the basis of this observation .\n\n"}
{"id": "3634262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634262", "title": "Blue Brain Project", "text": "Blue Brain Project\n\nThe Blue Brain, a Swiss national brain initiative, aims to create a digital reconstruction of the brain by reverse-engineering mammalian brain circuitry. The mission of the project, founded in May 2005 by the Brain and Mind Institute of the \"École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne\" (EPFL) in Switzerland, is to use biologically-detailed digital reconstructions and simulations of the mammalian brain (brain simulation) to identify the fundamental principles of brain structure and function in health and disease.\n\nThe project is headed by the founding director Henry Markram, who also launched the European Human Brain Project, and co-directed by Felix Schürmann and Sean Hill. Using a Blue Gene supercomputer running Michael Hines's NEURON software, the simulation does not consist simply of an artificial neural network, but involves a biologically realistic model of neurons, and an empirically reconstructed model connectome. It is hoped that it will eventually shed light on the nature of consciousness.\n\nThere are a number of sub-projects, including the Cajal Blue Brain, coordinated by the Supercomputing and Visualization Center of Madrid (CeSViMa), and others run by universities and independent laboratories.\n\nThe initial goal of the project, completed in December 2006, was the simulation of a rat neocortical column, which is considered by some researchers to be the smallest functional unit of the neocortex (the part of the brain thought to be responsible for higher functions such as conscious thought). In humans, each column is about 2 mm in length, has a diameter of 0.5 mm and contains about 60,000 neurons; rat neocortical columns are very similar in structure but contain only 10,000 neurons (and 10 synapses). Between 1995 and 2005, Markram mapped the types of neurons and their connections in such a column.\n\nIn November 2007, the project reported the end of the first phase, delivering a data-driven process for creating, validating, and researching the neocortical column.\n\nBy 2005, the first single cellular model was completed. The first artificial cellular neocortical column of 10,000 cells was built by 2008. By July 2011, a cellular mesocircuit of 100 neocortical columns with a million cells in total was built. A cellular rat brain is planned for 2014 with 100 mesocircuits totalling a hundred million cells. Finally a cellular human brain is predicted possible by 2023 equivalent to 1000 rat brains with a total of a hundred billion cells.\n\nNow that the column is finished, the project is currently busying itself with the publishing of initial results in scientific literature, and pursuing two separate goals:\n\nIn 2015, scientists at École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) developed a quantitative model of the previously unknown relationship between the glial cell astrocytes and neurons. This model describes the energy management of the brain through the function of the neuro-glial vascular unit (NGV). The additional layer of neuron-glial cells is being added to Blue Brain Project models to improve functionality of the system.\n\nRecently,Blue Brain Project releases first-ever digital 3D brain cell atlas:- The Blue Brain Cell Atlas is like 'going from hand-drawn maps to Google Earth' -- providing previously unavailable information on major cell types, numbers and positions in all 737 brain regions. This comprehensive, interactive and dynamic online resource allows anyone to visualize every region in the mouse brain, cell-by-cell and in 3D, and freely download data for new analyses and modelling. It can also be continuously be updated with new findings.\n\nThe project is funded primarily by the Swiss government and the Future and Emerging Technologies (FET) Flagship grant from the European Commission, and secondarily by grants and some donations from private individuals. The EPFL bought the Blue Gene computer at a reduced cost because at that stage it was still a prototype and IBM was interested in exploring how different applications would perform on the machine. BBP was viewed a validation of the Blue Gene supercomputer concept.\n\nA 10-part documentary is being made by film director Noah Hutton, with each installment detailing the year-long workings of the project at the EPFL. Having started filming in 2009, the documentary is planned to be released in 2020, after the years of filming and editing have finished. Regular contributions from Henry Markram and the rest of the team provide an insight into the Blue Brain Project, while similar research tasks across the world are touched on.\n\nThe Cajal Blue Brain is coordinated by the Technical University of Madrid and uses the facilities of the Supercomputing and Visualization Center of Madrid and its supercomputer Magerit. The Cajal Institute also participates in this collaboration. The main lines of research currently being pursued at Cajal Blue Brain include neurological experimentation and computer simulations. Nanotechnology, in the form of a newly designed brain microscope, plays an important role in its research plans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2152749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2152749", "title": "Clean Development Mechanism", "text": "Clean Development Mechanism\n\nThe Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is one of the Flexible Mechanisms defined in the Kyoto Protocol (IPCC, 2007) that provides for emissions reduction projects which generate Certified Emission Reduction units (CERs) which may be traded in emissions trading schemes.\n\nThe CDM, defined in Article 12 of the Protocol, was intended to meet two objectives: \n\"Annex I\" parties are the countries listed in Annex I of the treaty, the industrialized countries. Non-Annex I parties are developing countries.\n\nThe CDM addresses the second objective by allowing the Annex I countries to meet part of their emission reduction commitments under the Kyoto Protocol by buying Certified Emission Reduction units from CDM emission reduction projects in developing countries (\"Carbon Trust\", 2009, p. 14). Both the projects and the issue of CERs units are subject to approval to ensure that these emission reductions are real and \"additional.\" The CDM is supervised by the CDM Executive Board (CDM EB) under the guidance of the Conference of the Parties (COP/MOP) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).\n\nThe CDM allows industrialized countries to buy CERs and to invest in emission reductions where it is cheapest globally (Grubb, 2003, p. 159). Between 2001, which was the first year CDM projects could be registered and 7 September 2012, the CDM issued 1 billion Certified Emission Reduction units. As of 1 June 2013, 57% of all CERs had been issued for projects based on destroying either HFC-23 (38%) or NO (19%). Carbon capture and storage (CCS) was included in the CDM carbon offsetting scheme in December 2011.\n\nHowever, a number of weaknesses of the CDM have been identified (World Bank, 2010, p. 265-267). Several of these issues were addressed by the new Program of Activities (PoA), which moves to approving 'bundles' of projects instead of accrediting each project individually. In 2012, the report \"Climate Change, Carbon Markets and the CDM: A Call to Action\" said governments urgently needed to address the future of the CDM. It suggested the CDM was in danger of collapse because of the low price of carbon and the failure of governments to guarantee its existence into the future. Writing on the website of the Climate & Development Knowledge Network, Yolanda Kakabadse, a member of the investigating panel for the report and founder of Fundación Futuro Latinamericano, said a strong CDM is needed to support the political consensus essential for future climate progress. \"Therefore we must do everything in our hands to keep it working,\" she said.\n\nThe clean development mechanism is one of the \"flexibility mechanisms\" defined in the Kyoto Protocol. The flexibility mechanisms were designed to allow Annex B countries to meet their emission reduction commitments with reduced impact on their economies (IPCC, 2007). The flexibility mechanisms were introduced into the Kyoto Protocol by the US government. Developing countries were highly skeptical and fiercely opposed to the flexibility mechanisms (\"Carbon Trust\", 2009, p. 6). However, the international negotiations over the follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol agreed that the mechanisms will continue.\n\nThe purpose of the CDM is to promote clean development in developing countries, i.e., the \"non-Annex I\" countries (countries that aren't listed in Annex I of the Framework Convention). The CDM is one of the Protocol's \"project-based\" mechanisms, in that the CDM is designed to promote projects that reduce emissions. The CDM is based on the idea of emission reduction \"production\" (Toth \"et al\"., 2001, p. 660). These reductions are \"produced\" and then subtracted against a hypothetical \"baseline\" of emissions. The baseline emissions are the emissions that are predicted to occur in the absence of a particular CDM project. CDM projects are \"credited\" against this baseline, in the sense that developing countries gain credit for producing these emission cuts.\n\nThe economic basis for including developing countries in efforts to reduce emissions is that emission cuts are thought to be less expensive in developing countries than developed countries (Goldemberg \"et al\"., 1996, p. 30; Grubb, 2003, p. 159). For example, in developing countries, environmental regulation is generally weaker than it is in developed countries (Sathaye \"et al\"., 2001, p. 387-389). Thus, it is widely thought that there is greater potential for developing countries to reduce their emissions than developed countries.\n\nEmissions from developing countries are projected to increase substantially over this century (Goldemberg \"et al\"., 1996, p. 29). Infrastructure decisions made in developing countries could therefore have a very large influence on future efforts to limit total global emissions (Fisher \"et al\"., 2007). The CDM is designed to start developing countries off on a path towards less pollution, with industrialised (Annex B) countries paying for the reductions.\n\nThere were two main concerns about the CDM (Carbon Trust, 2009, pp. 14–15). One was over the additionality of emission reductions produced by the CDM (see the section on \"additionality\"). The other was whether it would allow rich, northern countries, and in particular, companies, to impose projects that were contrary to the development interests of host countries. To alleviate this concern, the CDM requires host countries to confirm that CDM projects contribute to their own sustainable development. International rules also prohibit credits for some kinds of activities, notably nuclear power and avoided deforestation.\n\nTo prevent industrialised countries from making unlimited use of CDM, the framework has a provision that use of CDM be ‘supplemental’ to domestic actions to reduce emissions. This wording has led to a wide range of interpretations - the Netherlands for example aims to achieve half of its required emission reductions (from a BAU baseline) by CDM. It treats Dutch companies' purchases of European Union Emission Trading Scheme allowances from companies in other countries as part of its domestic actions.\n\nThe CDM gained momentum in 2005 after the Kyoto Protocol took effect. Before the Protocol entered into force, investors considered this a key risk factor. The initial years of operation yielded fewer CDM credits than supporters had hoped for, as parties did not provide sufficient funding to the EB, which left it understaffed.\n\nThe Adaptation Fund was established to finance concrete adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol. The Fund is to be financed with a share of proceeds from clean development mechanism (CDM) project activities and receive funds from other sources.\n\nAn industrialised country that wishes to get credits from a CDM project must obtain the consent of the developing country hosting the project and their agreement that the project will contribute to sustainable development. Then, using methodologies approved by the CDM Executive Board (EB), the applicant industrialised country must make the case that the carbon project would not have happened anyway (establishing additionality), and must establish a baseline estimating the future emissions in absence of the registered project. The case is then validated by a third party agency, called a Designated Operational Entity (DOE), to ensure the project results in real, measurable, and long-term emission reductions. The EB then decides whether or not to register (approve) the project. If a project is registered and implemented, the EB issues credits, called Certified Emission Reductions (CERs, commonly known as carbon credits, where each unit is equivalent to the reduction of one metric tonne of COe, e.g. CO or its equivalent), to project participants based on the monitored difference between the baseline and the actual emissions, verified by the DOE.\n\nTo avoid giving credits to projects that would have happened anyway (\"freeriders\"), specified rules ensure the additionality of the proposed project, that is, ensure the project reduces emissions more than would have occurred in the absence of the intervention created by the CDM. At present, the CDM Executive Board deems a project additional if its proponents can document that realistic alternative scenarios to the proposed project would be more economically attractive or that the project faces barriers that CDM helps it overcome. Current Guidance from the EB is available at the UNFCCC website.\n\nThe determination of additionality and the calculation of emission reductions depends on the emissions that would have occurred without the project minus the emissions of the project. Accordingly, the CDM process requires an established baseline or comparative emission estimate. The construction of a project baseline often depends on hypothetical scenario modeling, and may be estimated through reference to emissions from similar activities and technologies in the same country or other countries, or to actual emissions prior to project implementation. The partners involved in the project could have an interest in establishing a baseline with high emissions, which would yield a risk of awarding spurious credits. Independent third party verification is meant to avoid this potential problem.\n\nAny proposed CDM project has to use an approved baseline and monitoring methodology to be validated, approved and registered. Baseline Methodology will set steps to determine the baseline within certain applicability conditions whilst monitoring methodology will set specific steps to determine monitoring parameters, quality assurance, equipment to be used, in order to obtain data to calculate the emission reductions. Those approved methodologies are all coded:\n\nAM - Approved Methodology\n\nACM - Approved Consolidated Methodology\n\nAMS - Approved Methodology for Small Scale Projects\n\nARAM - Aforestation and Reforestation Approved Methodologies\n\nAll baseline methodologies approved by Executive Board are publicly available along with relevant guidance on the UNFCCC CDM website. If a DOE determines that a proposed project activity intends to use a new baseline methodology, it shall, prior to the submission for registration of this project activity, forward the proposed methodology to the EB for review, i.e. consideration and approval, if appropriate.\n\nAccording to Burniaux \"et al\"., 2009, p. 37, crediting mechanisms like the CDM could play three important roles in climate change mitigation :\n\nAccording to Burniaux \"et al\". (2009, p. 37), the cost-saving potential of a well-functioning crediting mechanism appears to be very large. Compared to baseline costs (i.e., costs where emission reductions only take place in Annex I countries), if the cap on offset use was set at 20%, one estimate suggests mitigation costs could be halved. This cost saving, however, should be viewed as an upper bound: it assumes no transaction costs and no uncertainty on the delivery of emission savings. Annex I countries who stand to gain most from crediting include Australia, New Zealand, and Canada. In this economic model, non-Annex I countries enjoy a slight income gain from exploiting low cost emission reductions.\nActual transaction cost in the CDM are rather high, which is problematic for smaller projects. This issue is addressed by the Program of Activities (PoA) modality.\n\nCarbon leakage\n\nIn theory, leakage may be reduced by crediting mechanisms (Burniaux \"et al.\", 2009, p. 38). In practice, the amount of leakage partly depends on the definition of the baseline against which credits are granted. The current CDM approach already incorporates some leakage. Thus, reductions in leakage due to the CDM may, in fact, be small or even non-existent.\n\nAdditionality, transaction costs and bottlenecks\n\nIn order to maintain the environmental effectiveness of the Kyoto Protocol, emission savings from the CDM must be additional (World Bank, 2010, p. 265). Without additionality, the CDM amounts to an income transfer to non-Annex I countries (Burniaux \"et al\"., 2009, p. 40). Additionality is, however, difficult to prove, the subject of vigorous debate.\n\nBurniaux \"et al\". (2009) commented on the large transaction costs of establishing additionality. Assessing additionality has created delays (bottlenecks) in approving CDM projects. According to the World Bank (2010), there are significant constraints to the continued growth of the CDM to support mitigation in developing countries.\n\nIncentives\n\nThe CDM rewards emissions reductions, but does not penalize emission increases (Burniaux \"et al\"., 2009, p. 41). It therefore comes close to being an emissions reduction subsidy. This can create a perverse incentive for firms to raise their emissions in the short-term, with the aim of getting credits for reducing emissions in the long-term.\n\nAnother difficulty is that the CDM might reduce the incentive for non-Annex I countries to cap their emissions. This is because most developing countries benefit more from a well-functioning crediting mechanism than from a world emissions trading scheme (ETS), where their emissions are capped. This is true except in cases where the allocation of emissions rights (i.e., the amount of emissions that each country is allowed to emit) in the ETS is particularly favourable to developing countries.\n\nLocal resistance\n\nWhile the C in CDM stands for Clean, most projects might be better defined with the B from Big, from large hydropower to HFC or waste to energy and clean coal projects (which all together make the majority of credits generated through CDM). The argument in favor of the CDM is that it brings development to the South. However, in all continents the mainly Big Development it stands for is resisted by local people in those countries. A global coalition of researchers published a large report on African civil society resistance to CDM projects all over the continent. In New Delhi, India, a grassroots movement of wastepickers is resisting another CDM project on what the makers call 'the waste war' in Delhi. In Panama, a CDM project is blocking peace talks between the Panamanian government and the indigenous Ngöbe-Buglé people. Civil society groups and researchers in both North and South have complained for years that most CDM projects benefit big industries, while doing harm to excluded people. As local protests against CDM projects are arising on every continent, the notion that CDM 'brings development to the South' is contested.\n\nMarket deflation\n\nMost of the demand for CERs from the CDM comes from the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, which is the largest carbon market. In July 2012, the market price for CERs fell to new record low of €2.67 a tonne, a drop in price of about 70% in a year. Analysts attributed the low CER price to lower prices for European Union emissions allowances, oversupply of EU emissions allowances and the slowing European economy.\n\nIn September 2012, \"The Economist\" described the CDM as a \"complete disaster in the making\" and \"in need of a radical overhaul\". Carbon prices, including prices for CERs, had collapsed from $20 a tonne in August 2008 to below $5 in response to the Eurozone debt crisis reducing industrial activity and the over-allocation of emission allowances under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme. \"The Guardian\" reported that the CDM has \"essentially collapsed\", due to the prolonged downward trend in the price of CERs, which had been traded for as much as $20 (£12.50) a tonne before the global financial crisis to less than $3. With such low CER prices, potential projects were not commercially viable. In October 2012, CER prices fell to a new low of 1.36 euros a metric tonne on the London ICE Futures Europe exchange. In October 2012 Thomson Reuters Point Carbon calculated that the oversupply of units from the Clean Development Mechanism and Joint Implementation would be 1,400 million units for the period up to 2020 and Point Carbon predicted that Certified Emission Reduction (CER) prices would to drop from €2 to 50 cents. On 12 December 2012 CER prices reached another record low of 31 cents. \"Bloomberg\" reported that Certified Emission Reduction prices had declined by 92 percent to 39 each cents in the 2012 year.\n\nWith costs of emission reduction typically much lower in developing countries than in industrialised countries, industrialised countries can comply with their emission reduction targets at much lower cost by receiving credits for emissions reduced in developing countries as long as administration costs are low.\n\nThe IPCC has projected GDP losses for OECD Europe with full use of CDM and Joint Implementation to between 0.13% and 0.81% of GDP versus 0.31% to 1.50% with only domestic action.\n\nWhile there would always be some cheap domestic emission reductions available in Europe, the cost of switching from coal to gas could be in the order of €40-50 per tonne CO equivalent. Certified Emission Reductions from CDM projects were in 2006 traded on a forward basis for between €5 and €20 per tonne CO equivalent. The price depends on the distribution of risk between seller and buyer. The seller could get a very good price if it agrees to bear the risk that the project's baseline and monitoring methodology is rejected; that the host country rejects the project; that the CDM Executive Board rejects the project; that the project for some reason produces fewer credits than planned; or that the buyer doesn't get CERs at the agreed time if the international transaction log (the technical infrastructure ensuring international transfer of carbon credits) is not in place by then. The seller can usually only take these risks if the counterparty is deemed very reliable, as rated by international rating agencies.\n\nThe revenues of the CDM constitutes the largest source of mitigation finance to developing countries to date (World Bank, 2010, p. 261-262). Over the 2001 to 2012 period, CDM projects could raise $18 billion ($15 billion to $24 billion) in direct carbon revenues for developing countries. Actual revenues will depend on the price of carbon. It is estimated that some $95 billion in clean energy investment benefitted from the CDM over the 2002-08 period.\n\nThe CDM is the main source of income for the UNFCCC Adaptation Fund, which was established in 2007 to finance concrete adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol (World Bank, 2010, p. 262-263). The CDM is subject to a 2% levy, which could raise between $300 million and $600 million over the 2008-12 period. The actual amount raised will depend on the carbon price.\n\nSince 2000, the CDM has allowed crediting of project-based emission reductions in developing countries (Gupta \"et al\"., 2007). By 1 January 2005, projects submitted to the CDM amounted to less than 100 MtCOe of projected savings by 2012 (Carbon Trust, 2009, p. 18-19). The EU ETS started in January 2005, and the following month saw the Kyoto Protocol enter into force. The EU ETS allowed firms to comply with their commitments by buying offset credits, and thus created a perceived value to projects. The Kyoto Protocol set the CDM on a firm legal footing.\n\nBy the end of 2008, over 4,000 CDM projects had been submitted for validation, and of those, over 1,000 were registered by the CDM Executive Board, and were therefore entitled to be issued CERs (Carbon Trust, 2009, p. 19). In 2010, the World Bank estimated that in 2012, the largest potential for production of CERs would be from China (52% of total CERs) and India (16%) (World Bank, 2010, p. 262). CERs produced in Latin America and the Caribbean would make up 15% of the potential total, with Brazil as the largest producer in the region (7%).\n\nBy 14 September 2012, 4626 projects had been registered by the CDM Executive Board as CDM projects. These projects are expected to result in the issue of 648,232,798 certified emissions reductions. By 14 September 2012, the CDM Board had issued 1 billion CERs, 60% of which originated from projects in China. India, the Republic of Korea, and Brazil were issued with 15%, 9% and 7% of the total CERs.\n\nThe Himachal Pradesh Reforestation Project is claimed to be the world's largest CDM.\n\nThere are currently 29 transportation projects registered, the last was registered on February 25, 2013 and is hosted in China.\n\nSome CDM projects remove or destroy industrial gases, such as hydrofluorocarbon-23 (HFC-23) and nitrous oxide (N2O). HFC-23 is a potent greenhouse gas (GHG) and is a byproduct from the production of the refrigerant gas chlorodifluoromethane (HCFC-22). The gas HFC-23 is estimated to have a global warming effect 11,000 times greater than carbon dioxide, so destroying a tonne of HFC-23 earns the refrigerant manufacturer 11,000 certified emissions reduction units.\n\nIn 2009, the Carbon Trust estimated that industrial gas projects such as those limiting HFC-23 emissions, would contribute about 20% of the CERs issued by the CDM in 2012. The Carbon Trust expressed the concern that projects for destroying HFC-23 were so profitable that coolant manufacturers could be building new factories to produce the coolant gas. (Carbon Trust, 2009, p. 60). In September 2010, Sandbag estimated that in 2009 59% of the CERs used as offsets in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme originated from HFC-23 projects.\n\nAn example is the Plascon, Plasma arc plant that was installed by Quimobásicos S.A. de C.V in Monterrey, Mexico to eliminate of HCFC-23, a byproduct of the production of R-22 refrigerant gas.\n\nFrom 2005 to June 2012, 19 manufacturers of refrigerants (11 in China, 5 in India, and one each in Argentina, Mexico and South Korea), were issued with 46% of all the certified emissions reduction units from the CDM. David Hanrahan, the technical director of IDEAcarbon believes each plant would probably have earned an average of $20 million to $40 million a year from the CDM. The payments also incentivise the increased production of the ozone-depleting refrigerant HCFC-22, and discourage substitution of HCFC-22 with less harmful refrigerants.\n\nIn 2007 the CDM stopped accepting new refrigerant manufacturers into the CDM. In 2011, the CDM renewed contracts with the nineteen manufacturers on the condition that claims for HFC-23 destruction would be limited to 1 percent of their coolant production. However, in 2012, 18 percent of all CERs issued are expected to go to the 19 coolant plants, compared with 12 percent to 2,372 wind power plants and 0.2 percent to 312 solar projects.\n\nIn January 2011, the European Union Climate Change Committee banned the use of HFC-23 CERs in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme from 1 May 2013. The ban includes nitrous oxide (N2O) from adipic acid production. The reasons given were the perverse incentives, the lack of additionality, the lack of environmental integrity, the under-mining of the Montreal Protocol, costs and ineffectiveness and the distorting effect of a few projects in advanced developing countries getting too many CERs. From 23 December 2011, CERs from HFC-23 and N2O destruction projects were banned from use in the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme, unless they had been purchased under future delivery contracts entered into prior to 23 December 2011. The use of the future delivery contracts ends in June 2013.\n\nAs of 1 June 2013, the CDM had issued 505,125 CERs, or 38% of all CERs issued, to 23 HFC-23 destruction projects. A further 19% (or 255,666 CERs) had been issued to 108 NO destruction projects.\n\nWorld Bank (n.d., p. 12) described a number of barriers to the use of the CDM in least developed countries (LDCs). LDCs have experienced lower participation in the CDM to date. Four CDM decisions were highlighted as having a disproportionate negative impact on LDCs:\n\nOne of the difficulties of the CDM is in judging whether or not projects truly make additional savings in GHG emissions (Carbon Trust, 2009, p. 54-56). The baseline which is used in making this comparison is not observable. According to the Carbon Trust (2009), some projects have been clearly additional: the fitting of equipment to remove HFCs and NO. Some low-carbon electricity supply projects were also thought to have displaced coal-powered generation. Carbon Trust (2009) reviewed some approved projects. In their view, some of these projects had debatable points in their additionality assessments. They compared establishing additionality to the balance of evidence in a legal system. Certainty in additionality is rare, and the higher the proof of additionality, the greater the risk of rejecting good projects to reduce emissions.\n\nAdditionality is much contested. There are many rival interpretations of additionality:\n\n\nA number of terms for different kinds of additionality have been discussed, leading to some confusion, particularly over the terms 'financial additionality' and 'investment additionality' which are sometimes used as synonyms. 'Investment additionality', however, was a concept discussed and ultimately rejected during negotiation of the Marrakech Accords. Investment additionality carried the idea that any project that surpasses a certain risk-adjusted profitability threshold would automatically be deemed non-additional. 'Financial additionality' is often defined as an economically non-viable project becoming viable as a direct result of CDM revenues.\n\nMany investors argue that the environmental additionality interpretation would make the CDM simpler. Environmental NGOs have argued that this interpretation would open the CDM to free-riders, permitting developed countries to emit more CO, while failing to produce emission reductions in the CDM host countries.\n\nGillenwater (2011) evaluated the various definitions of additionality used within the CDM community and provided a synthesis definition that rejects the notion of there being different types of additionality.\n\nSchneider (2007) produced a report on the CDM for the WWF. The findings of the report were based on a systematic evaluation of 93 randomly chosen registered CDM projects, as well as interviews and a literature survey (p. 5). According to Schneider (2007, p. 72), the additionality of a significant number of projects over the 2004-2007 period seemed to be either unlikely or questionable.\n\nIt is never possible to establish with certainty what would have happened without the CDM or in absence of a particular project, which is one common objection to the CDM. Nevertheless, official guidelines have been designed to facilitate uniform assessment, set by the CDM Executive Board for assessing additionality.\n\nAn argument against additionality is based on the fact that developing countries are not subject to emission caps in the Kyoto Protocol (Müller, 2009, pp. \"iv\", 9-10). On these basis, \"business-as-usual\" (BAU) emissions (i.e., emissions that would occur without any efforts to reduce them) in developing countries should be allowed. By setting a BAU baseline, this can be interpreted as being a target for developing countries. Thus, it is, in effect, a restriction on their right to emit without a cap. This can be used as an argument against having additionality, in the sense that non-additional (i.e., emission reductions that would have taken place under BAU) emission reductions should be credited.\n\nMüller (2009) argued that compromise was necessary between having additionality and not having it. In his view, additionality should sometimes be used, but other times, it shouldn't.\n\nAccording to World Bank (n.d., pp. 16–17), additionality is crucial in maintaining the environmental integrity of the carbon market. To maintain this integrity, it was suggested that projects meeting or exceeding ambitious policy objectives or technical standards could be deemed additional.\n\nPioneering research has suggested that an average of approximately 30% of the money spent on the open market buying CDM credits goes directly to project operating and capital expenditure costs.\nOther significant costs include the broker's premium (about 30%, understood to represent the risk of a project not delivering) and the project shareholders' dividend (another 30%). The researchers noted that the sample of projects studied was small, the range of figures was wide and that their methodology of estimating values slightly overstated the average broker's premium.\n\nOne of the main problems concerning CDM-projects is the risk of fraud. The most common practices are covering up the fact that the projects are financially viable by themselves and that the emission reductions acquired through the CDM-project aren’t additional. Exaggerating the carbon benefits is also a common practice, just as carbon leakage. Sometimes a company even produces more to receive more CERs.\n\nMost of the doubtful projects are Industrial gas projects. Even though only 1.7% of all CDM-projects can be qualified as such, extraordinarily they account for half to 69% of all CERs that have been issued, contributing to a collapse in the global market for all CERs. Since the cost of dismantling these gases is very low compared to the market price of the CERs, very large profits can be made by companies setting up these projects. In this way, the CDM has become a stimulus for carbon leakage, or even to simply produce more.\n\nHydro-projects are also quite problematic. Barbara Haye calculated that more than a third of all hydro-projects recognized as a CDM-project ‘were already completed at the time of registration and almost all were already under construction’, which means that CERs are issued for projects that aren’t additional, which again indirectly leads to higher emissions. Moreover, most of the proposed carbon benefits of these projects are exaggerated.\n\nWhy are these projects approved by the Clean_Development_Mechanism Executive Board (EB)?’, one might wonder. One of the main problems is that the EB is a highly politicized body. People taking a place in the board aren’t independent technocrats, but are elected as representatives of their respective countries. They face pressure from their own & other (powerful) countries, the World Bank (that subsidizes certain projects), and other lobbying organisations. This, combined with a lack of transparency regarding the decisions of the board leads to the members favouring political-economical over technical or scientific considerations. It seems clear that the CDM isn’t governed according to the rules of ‘good governance’. Solving this problem might require a genuine democratization in the election of the EB-members and thus a shift in thinking from government to governance. In practice this would mean that all the stakeholders should get a voice in who can have a seat in the EB.\n\nAnother important factor in the dysfunctionality of the EB is the lack of time, staff and financial resources it has to fully evaluate a project proposal. Moreover, the verification of a project is often outsourced to companies that also deliver services (such as accounting or consultancy) to enterprises setting up these same projects. In this way, the verifiers have serious incentives to deliver a positive report to the EB. This indicates that implementation is the place where the shoe pinches, as usually happens in environmental issues (mostly due to a lack of funds).\n\nFinally, it should be noted though that there have been indications in recent years that the EB is becoming more strict in its decisions, due to the huge criticism and the board getting more experience.\n\nThe first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol excluded forest conservation as well as avoided deforestation from the CDM for a variety of political, practical and ethical reasons. However, carbon emissions from deforestation represent 18-25% of all emissions, and will account for more carbon emissions in the next five years than all emissions from all aircraft since the Wright Brothers until at least 2025. This means that there have been growing calls for the inclusion of forests in CDM schemes for the second commitment period from a variety of sectors, under the leadership of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, and brought together under the Forests Now Declaration, which has been signed by over 300 NGOs, business leaders, and policy makers. There is so far no international agreement about whether projects avoiding deforestation or conserving forests should be initiated through separate policies and measures or stimulated through the carbon market. One major concern is the enormous monitoring effort needed in order to make sure projects are indeed leading to increased carbon storage. There is also local opposition. For example, May 2, 2008, at the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII), Indigenous leaders from around the world protested against the Clean Energy Mechanisms, especially against Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.\n\n\"Combating global warming has broadly two components: decreasing the release of greenhouse gases and sequestering greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Greenhouse gas emitters, such as coal-fired power plants, are known as \"sources\", and places where carbon and other greenhouse gases, such as methane, can be sequestered, i.e. kept out of the atmosphere, are known as \"sinks\".\n\nThe world's forests, particularly rain forests, are important carbon sinks, both because of their uptake of CO through photosynthesis and because of the amount of carbon stored in their woody biomass and the soil. When rain forests are logged and burned, not only do we lose the forests' capacity to take up CO from the atmosphere, but also the carbon stored in that biomass and soil is released into the atmosphere through release of roots from the soil and the burning of the woody plant matter.\n\nAn emerging proposal, Reduced Emissions from Avoided Deforestation and Degradation (REDD), would allow rain forest preservation to qualify for CDM project status. REDD has gained support through recent meetings of the COP, and will be examined at Copenhagen.\n\nIn July 2011, Reuters reported that a 4,000 MW coal thermal electricity generation plant in Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh had been registered with the CDM. CDM Watch and the Sierra Club criticised the plant's registration and its eligibility for certified emission reduction units as clearly not additional. A CDM spokesperson dismissed these claims. According to information provided to Reuters, there are total of five coal-fired electricity plants registered with the CDM, four in India with a capacity of 10,640 MW and one 2,000 MW plant in China. The five plants are eligible to receive 68.2 million CERs over a 10-year period with an estimated value of 661 million euros ($919 million) at a CER price of 9.70 euros.\n\nIn September 2012, the Executive Board of the Clean Development Mechanism adopted rules confirming that new coal thermal power generation plants could be registered as CDM projects and could use the simplified rules called 'Programmes of Activities'. The organisation CDM-Watch described the decision as inconsistent with the objective of the CDM as it subsidised the construction of new coal power plants. CDM-Watch described the CERs that would be issued as \"non-additional dirty carbon credits\".\n\nSome CERs are produced from CDM projects at refrigerant-producing factories in non-Annex I countries that generate the powerful greenhouse gas HFC 23 as a by-product. These projects dominated the CDM's early growth, and are expected to generate 20% of all credited emission reductions by 2012 (Carbon Trust, 2009, p. 60). Paying for facilities to destroy HFC-23 can cost only 0.2-0.5 €/tCO. Industrialized countries were, however, paying around 20 €/tCO for reductions that cost below 1 €/tCO. This provoked strong criticism.\n\nThe scale of profits generated by HFC-23 projects threatened distortions in competitiveness with plants in industrialized countries that had already cleaned up their emissions (p. 60). In an attempt to address concerns over HFC-23 projects, the CDM Executive Board made changes in how these projects are credited. According to the Carbon Trust (2009, p. 60), these changes effectively ensure that:\n\nCarbon Trust (2009, p. 60) argued that criticizing the CDM for finding low-cost reductions seemed perverse. They also argued that addressing the problem with targeted funding was easy with hindsight, and that before the CDM, these emission reduction opportunities were not taken.\n\nNGOs have criticized the inclusion of large hydropower projects, which they consider unsustainable, as CDM projects.{https://www.internationalrivers.org/km/taxonomy/term/1024} Lately, both the CDM EB and investors have become concerned about such projects for potential lack of additionality. One reason was that many of these projects had started well before applying for CDM status. In June 2008, third party validator TÜV SÜD Group rejected a hydropower project in China because the project proponents could not document that they had seriously considered CDM at the time the project was started. In July 2008, third party validators agreed that projects applying for CDM status more than one year after having taken their investment decision should not qualify for CDM status. Currently, the largest power plant to receive CDM registration is the Jirau Hydroelectric Plant in Brazil.\n\nHydropower projects larger than 20 MW must document that they follow World Commission on Dams guidelines or similar guidelines in order to qualify for the European Union's Emissions Trading Scheme. As of 21 July 2008, CERs from hydropower projects are not listed on European carbon exchanges, because different member states interpret these limitations differently.\n\nOrganisation seeking to measure the degree of compliance of individual projects with WCD principles can use the Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol, recommended as the most practical currently available evaluation tool.\n\nRenewable energy\n\nIn the initial phase of the CDM, policy makers and NGOs were concerned about the lack of renewable energy CDM projects. As the new CDM projects are now predominantly renewables and energy efficiency projects, this is now less of an issue.\n\nSinks\n\nNGOs, as well as several governments, have consistently been sceptical towards the inclusion of sinks as CDM projects. The main reasons were fear of oversupply, that such projects cannot guarantee permanent storage of carbon, and that the methods of accounting for carbon storage in biomass are complex and still under development. Consequently, two separate carbon currencies (temporary CERs and long-term CERs) were created for such projects. Such credits cannot be imported to the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme. The lack of demand for such projects have resulted in very limited supply: Currently (21 July 2008), only one sinks project has been registered under CDM.\n\nWindfarms in Western Sahara\n\nIn 2012, it was announced, that a windfarm complex is going to be located near Laayoune, the capital city of the disputed territory of Western Sahara. Since this project is to be established under tight collaboration between the UN (which itself recognizes Western Sahara's status of a non-autonomous country) and the Moroccan government, it has been questioned by many parties supporting Western Sahara independence, including the Polisario.\n\nIn response to concerns of unsustainable projects or spurious credits, the World Wide Fund for Nature and other NGOs devised a ‘Gold Standard’ methodology to certify projects that uses much stricter criteria than required, such as allowing only renewable energy projects.\n\nFor example, a South African brick kiln was faced with a business decision; replace its depleted energy supply with coal from a new mine, or build a difficult but cleaner natural gas pipeline to another country. They chose to build the pipeline with SASOL. SASOL claimed the difference in GHG emissions as a CDM credit, comparing emissions from the pipeline to the contemplated coal mine.\nDuring its approval process, the validators noted that changing the supply from coal to gas met the CDM's 'additionality' criteria and was the least cost-effective option.\nHowever, there were unofficial reports that the fuel change was going to take place anyway, although this was later denied by the company's press office.\n\nSchneider (2007, p. 73) commented on the success of the CDM in reducing emissions from industrial plants and landfills. Schneider (2007) concluded by stating that if concerns over the CDM are properly addressed, it would continue to be an \"important instrument in the fight against climate change.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16951486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16951486", "title": "Clean growth", "text": "Clean growth\n\nClean growth is a way to achieve economic growth, using clean technology, and allowing sustainable development.\n\nThe aim is to rise standard of living with a reduced environmental impact.\n\nScientists and politicians use this terminology. For example, Nicolas Sarkozy said : \n\nOur first goal is to find the way to achieve \"clean\" growth and I want to defend this idea here today. We haven't got to choose between saving the planet and growth. We need to have growth and save the planet. So we need a growth that consumes less energy and fewer raw materials. A new economy must be invented.\n"}
{"id": "42295551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42295551", "title": "Commodification of the womb", "text": "Commodification of the womb\n\nCommodification of the womb is the process by which services performed by the female womb are offered for sale and purchased on the market. The market transaction transforms the womb from a human body part, to being a service provided for purchase on the market. The womb in its commodified state has both exchange value and use value. Market transactions involving the services of women's wombs became increasingly common in the early twenty-first century. Such transactions are generally relied upon by those unable to conceive and those who are willing to pay someone else to bear the inconvenience of going through a pregnancy. Commodification of the womb raises several ethical and legal questions, which have expanded from questions regarding the rights of surrogates and biological parents, and the legitimacy of a child resulting from the transaction, to questions regarding transnational surrogacy within a global market.\n\nThrough modernization of reproductive technology, the options for having a child has expanded to include artificial insemination, in vitro fertilization, and surrogacy as possible solutions when faced with infertility. A woman may essentially offer to rent her womb for the gestation of a child who will be given to another person following the birth of the child. Surrogacy has been a practice throughout history yet has become more popular in the modern day. In the Bible, Rachel who was infertile, gives her handmaid Bilhah to her husband Jacob to bear him children. The two children, Dan and Naphtali whom Bilhah gave birth to were given names by Rachel who was considered their mother following birth. This was the earliest biblical example of surrogacy. From the Middle Ages to modern times, other reproductive services have also been supplied for a fee. For example, in the Middle Ages a wet nurse would feed and care for another woman's child, in exchange for payment. These reproductive services often share a common thread of a woman of lesser economic means supplying either gestation or care of another woman's child for an individual fee or as part of her employment\n\nIn the late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, artificial insemination made impregnation possible without sexual intercourse. Thus the market for commodifcation of the womb was transformed. Through the advancements of modern technology, potential parent(s) have the ability to enter into a market transaction with a woman, in which the woman agrees to gestate a child, either of her own egg or that of a surrogate, with the contractual obligation of turning this child over upon birth. Having a child born of a commercial surrogate could be considered a luxury good. Luxury goods are typically only available to those with significant means, beyond that of necessities. It could be considered that, just as in the Biblical cases of handmaids being asked to conceive children, early twenty-first century women offering their womb to the market would also be of lesser economic means.\n\nViewing the womb as a commodified good allows for the understanding of the market supply, demand, and transactions that take place with a part of the human body. The market for commercial surrogacy began to take shape in the late 1970s; one of the more prominent figures in this market was attorney Noel Keane of Michigan, United States. Keane and other entrepreneurs saw a market for the womb, and hence the commodification of the womb began.\nKeane started brokering deals, for a fee, between potential surrogates and parents until he found out that it was illegal for a genetic parent to sell their child to another person in the state of Michigan. Keane's business model was to have fathers contribute sperm and the surrogate mothers provided eggs. The surrogate mothers were genetically related to the child, while the non-birth mothers were not. Such surrogacy arrangements were illegal in some states on the basis that the non-birth mothers were paying the biological mothers for their genetically related children. The state of Michigan was one such state that enacted laws forbidding these surrogacy arrangements, thereby making Keane's business model illegal. The main purpose of these laws was to prevent the sale of infants as if they were property. Some states viewed surrogate contracts as void, the payment for a child was illegal, and/or viewed artificial insemination as adultery, if the couple was not married.\n\nTo avoid the legal issues Keane thought women would volunteer, without pay, to become surrogates out of an altruistic motivation. However, without the promise of financial compensation, Keane found a sharp decline in the number of women who volunteered. In the early 1980s Keane moved his commercial surrogacy business to Florida, where laws were more lenient. Florida also had no laws regarding the exchange of money for infants. A commercial surrogacy broker could be viewed as a capitalist organizing production and offering a product to the market. This raised the question of whether women and children are being viewed not as human beings but as commodities of the market, being bought and sold for the highest prices. At the outset of commercial surrogacy, the laws in place in the United States were not equipped to handle the resulting legal and ethical questions that would arise. As with many modern markets, womb commodification has moved from local markets to outsourcing in foreign countries.\n\nCommodification refers to the process by which goods and services are transformed into commodities to be bought and sold in the market. In Capital, from the Fetishism of the Commodity and its Secrets, Karl Marx describes a commodity as a thing. Marx calls commodities trivial, strange, and use values to satisfy human needs. Marx conceptualizes the commodity as something man transforms from raw materials into a final good. Marx is describing things which are not human, and thus the commodity of the womb cannot be independent of the woman. The womb gains value in the market through exchange value and use value. Women's overall market participation is growing both as consumers and as producers. The womb, a product owned only by women, being sold to other women creates a market where women are predominantly the consumer as well as the sole owners of the product. It is difficult, if not impossible, to separate the product of the womb from the human being. Outside of the human, the womb has little value, but once its functions can be traded for profit on the market it is of interest to everyone.\n\nWomb commodification raises ethical questions, while also balancing it against a woman's right to enter in to a contract and to make decisions regarding her own body. Womb commodification could be viewed as economic agents engaged in free market trade. The commodification argument asks whether women are being given control over their body, or whether they are being exploited for their individual body parts.\n\nAn ethical argument against womb commodification is that it allows the rich to take advantage of the willingness of poor women to perform any job so long as they are able to earn a wage. A woman may choose to commodify her womb for money because she is faced with no other profitable options for employment.\n\nReproductive technology is a relatively recent phenomenon with little universal regulation. Surrogates, clinics, and commissioning couples often choose the market that is most favorable, beneficial, or profitable to them. Many individual states in the United States view the gestational mother as the legal mother, which can prove problematic when determining rights of the surrogate versus the rights of the commissioning couple.\n\nOpposition and challenges to surrogacy agreements most often relate to the nature of the surrogacy contract. One of the legally debated questions is whether the contract is granting a woman the right to sell the service of her labor through womb rental or whether the surrogate and the commissioning parents are entering into an agreement to sell/purchase a child. One of the most controversial legal issues is determining the rights of surrogate as the birth mother versus contractual obligations of the surrogate as a party to a contract. A mother is commonly defined as a woman who has given birth or legally adopted a child. The law often does not keep pace with technology. With the advancements of surrogacy and the invention of commercial surrogacy, what it means to be a mother will inevitability need to be redefined.\n\nA question at the forefront of legal debates is whether the birth mother may be required to relinquish her rights to the child, or whether the biological parents’ rights supersede the rights of the birth mother. In order to avoid the sale of a human, which is illegal, the focus of a surrogacy contract needs to focus on the legal use of the surrogate's womb to be enforceable. There is little case law on which to rely and this legal battle is made more complex when the element of transnational surrogacy is added. Birth often confers nationally and citizenship. With transnational surrogacy being a common form of commercial surrogacy, there is growing demand for international regulation of this burgeoning market.\n\nThere are two types of surrogacy: commercial surrogacy and altruistic surrogacy. Commercial surrogacy is when the surrogate offers the rental of her womb to the market for financial gain. Conversely, the surrogate generally does not profit from the rental of her womb in altruistic surrogacy. The following countries legally permit both commercial surrogacy and altruistic surrogacy: Russian Federation, Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia, Armenia, Cyprus, India, South Africa, and the United States (in the states of Arkansas, California, Florida, Illinois, Texas, Massachusetts, and Vermont). Other countries permit altruistic surrogacy: Australia, Canada (except Quebec), the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Denmark, Hungary, Israel, and United States (in the states of New York, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nebraska, Virginia, Oregon, and Washington). There are also countries in which any form of surrogacy is illegal, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Estonia, Moldova, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, China, Japan, and the United States (in the states of Arizona, Michigan, Indiana, North Dakota). Due to varying options within a home country many people seeking a commercial surrogate choose to seek markets abroad. India legalized commercial surrogacy in 2001. Legalization was pushed forward with the hope that medical tourism, and specifically reproductive tourism in India would increase.\n\nWith a lack of regulation in the commercial surrogacy market, payments to surrogates can vary depending on the terms of the individual contract. India is a favored location for commercial surrogacy due to the lower costs. By some estimates, those wishing to enter in to a commercial surrogacy contract could save as much as $70,000 in India versus the United States.\n\nBy becoming commercial surrogates women in India are enabling themselves to improve not only their lives but also the lives of their families. It is common for surrogates to have had limited access to education, which could limit the opportunities for employment in the market. Payment for surrogacy varies by contract, estimates range from the equivalent of three times what the head of household could make in a month, to earning in nine months an amount that would take fifteen years worth of work. This amount of money can provide access to better housing, food, education, and sanitation, that would otherwise not be probable.\n\nFormer surrogates also have the ability to become agents for surrogacy clinics. Agents, for a fee, facilitate a surrogate's doctor's visits and look out for the care and wellbeing of the surrogate throughout the course of her pregnancy. Becoming an agent allows the woman to have several patients and she is able to collect fees from each of them, which may further improve her financial situation. It was expected that profits for commercial surrogacy would reach as high as six billion dollars by 2012.\n\n6 September 2018, Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code is declared unconstitutional in India. After this path breaking decision, surrogacy, especially single father surrogacy will see a boost among LGBT community. \n\nWhen a woman signs a contract to become a gestational carrier she is subject to hormone administration and embryo transplantation to become impregnated. Many, but not all surrogates move to gestational hostels and receive better medical treatment and care than they would receive were they giving birth to their own child free of the obligation of a contract. Nutrition, health, and rest are all monitored as part of the contract, with the wellbeing of the fetus often paramount to that of the surrogate.\n\nMany clinics that broker transnational surrogacy prefer women who have already given birth, as the clinics have evidence of a viable uterus. The clinics may also prefer women who have their own children, with the hope that the surrogate will not bond with the fetus. Surrogacy contracts focus on the rental of an unused womb, with the belief that the fetus is the property of another. Many surrogates only receive full payment for their service if the full duration of the pregnancy is met. The appeal for foreign parents of transnational surrogacy is due to the lower costs and wage demands than they would find in their home country.\n\nDr. Nayna Patel runs the Akanksha clinic, in Anand, India. At first most of the clients seeking fertility services from the Akanksha clinic were Indian, but their clientele has expanded to Westerners also seeking a child. Many come to this distant clinic as the fees are too high in their own country. Foreign couples are seeking lower priced alternatives to local surrogacy, and foreign surrogates may be willing to accept a lower fee. Surrogates at the Akanksha clinic have the possibility of making $5500 for this transaction, a sum of money that is significant in providing for a family, education, housing, and wellbeing when compared to other alternatives.\n\nCitizenship of a child has traditionally been established through jus soli, right of the soil, and/or jus sanguinis, right of blood. Surrogacy challenges the traditional view of citizenship, by redefining what it means to be a mother. Nations must now consider if a mother is the person who physically gave birth to the child, the one who provided her ovum, or the one who will care for the child.\n\nIn July 2010, consuls general from Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and the Czech Republic sent letters to surrogacy clinics in Mumbai, India, to direct potential clients from these countries to seek guidance from their consulates before entering into surrogacy contracts. These countries have varying surrogacy laws, and many of their citizens have faced difficulties upon trying to gain citizenship rights for children born in India.\n\nOne of the most well known cases of problematic transnational surrogacy and lineage is that of the baby girl known as Manji, born in 2008, in India. Manji's birth was the result of a commercial surrogacy contract between her Japanese parents and her Indian surrogate. Before Manji's birth, her parents divorced, and her commissioning mother refused to claim her. Under Indian law, an infant's passport may only be issued in conjunction with the mother's. Since neither her Japanese or Indian mother would claim Manji, for a brief time she was not considered a citizen of Japan, India, or any other country. It was not until her paternal grandmother claimed her, accompanied by a lengthy legal battle, that Manji was able to apply for a passport and citizenship.\n"}
{"id": "44716979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44716979", "title": "Constitutional Liberties Information Center", "text": "Constitutional Liberties Information Center\n\nThe Constitutional Liberties Information Center was an advocacy group created by the Communist Party in California in 1961. This communist front organization was established to help stir up support for the Communist Party leadership, whose appeal of 1960 Internal Security Act convictions were going to be considered by the Supreme Court.\n"}
{"id": "23734946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23734946", "title": "Declaration of Helsinki (Information Technology)", "text": "Declaration of Helsinki (Information Technology)\n\nThe Declaration of Helsinki from the Global Cities Dialogue is the set of principles and commitments that define the purpose of the organisation - an international grouping of over 100 cities whose representatives: \n\n"}
{"id": "1618182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1618182", "title": "Dilemma", "text": "Dilemma\n\nA dilemma ( \"double proposition\") is a problem offering two possibilities, neither of which is unambiguously acceptable or preferable. The possibilities are termed the \"horns\" of the dilemma, a clichéd usage, but distinguishing the dilemma from other kinds of predicament as a matter of usage.\n\nThe dilemma is sometimes used as a rhetorical device. Its isolation as textbook material has been attributed to Hermogenes of Tarsus in his work \"On Invention\". C. S. Peirce gave a definition of \"dilemmatic argument\" as any argument relying on excluded middle.\n\nIn the form \"you must accept either A, or B\"; here A and B would be propositions each leading to some further conclusion, and applied incorrectly, it constitutes a false dichotomy, that is, a fallacy. Traditional usage distinguished the dilemma as a \"horned syllogism\" from the sophism that attracted the Latin name \"cornutus\". The original use of the word \"horns\" in English has been attributed to Nicholas Udall in his 1548 book \"Paraphrases\", translating from the Latin term \"cornuta interrogatio\".\n\nIn propositional logic, \"dilemma\" is applied to a group of rules of inference, which are in themselves valid rather than fallacious. They each have three premises, and include the constructive dilemma and destructive dilemma. Such arguments can be refuted by showing that the disjunctive premise — the \"horns of the dilemma\" — does not in fact hold, because it presents a false dichotomy. You are asked to accept \"A or B\", but counter by showing that is not all. Successfully undermining that premise is called \"escaping through the horns of the dilemma\".\n\nDilemmatic reasoning has been attributed to Melissus of Samos, a Presocratic philosopher whose works survive in fragmentary form, making the origins of the technique in philosophy imponderable. It was established with Diodorus Cronus (died c. 284 BCE). The paradoxes of Zeno of Elea were reported by Aristotle in dilemma form, but that may have been to conform with what Plato said about Zeno's style.\n\nIn cases where two moral principles appear to be inconsistent, an actor has a dilemma in terms of which principle to follow. This kind of moral case study is attributed to Cicero, in book III of his \"De Officiis\". In the Christian tradition of casuistry, an approach to abstract ranking of principles introduced by Bartolomé de Medina in the 16th century became tainted with the accusation of laxism, as did casuistry itself. Another approach, with legal roots, is to lay emphasis on particular features present in a given case: in other words, the exact framing of the dilemma.\n\n"}
{"id": "1245464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245464", "title": "Eidolon", "text": "Eidolon\n\nIn ancient Greek literature, an eidolon (plural: eidola or eidolons) (Greek εἴδωλον: \"image, idol, double, apparition, phantom, ghost\") is a spirit-image of a living or dead person; a shade or phantom look-alike of the human form. The concept of Helen of Troy's eidolon was explored both by Homer and Euripides. However, where Homer uses the concept as a free-standing idea that gives Helen life after death, Euripides entangles it with the idea of kleos, one being the product of the other. Both Euripides and Stesichorus, in their respective works concerning the Trojan Horse, claim that Helen was never physically present in the city at all.\n\nThe concept of the eidola of the dead was explored in various literature regarding Penelope, who in later works was constantly laboring against the eidola of Clytamnestra and later Helen herself.\n\nHomer's use of eidola also extends to the Odyssey where, after the death of the suitors, Theoclymenos notes that he sees the doorway of the court filled with them.\n\nWalt Whitman's poem by the same name in 1876 used a much broader understanding of the term, expanded and detailed in the poem. In Whitman's use of the term we can see the use broaden to include the concept of an oversoul composed of the individual souls of all life and expanding to include the Earth itself and the hierarchy of the planets, Sun, stars and galaxy.\n\nIn Theosophy, the astral double or perispirit or kamarupa after death, before its disintegration is identified with the \"eidolon\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPathfinder Reference Document\n"}
{"id": "2632126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2632126", "title": "Equiveillance", "text": "Equiveillance\n\nEquiveillance is a state of equilibrium, or a desire to attain a state of equilibrium, between surveillance and sousveillance. It is sometimes confused with transparency. This balance (equilibrium) allows the individual to construct their own case from evidence they gather themselves, rather than merely having access to surveillance data that could possibly incriminate them.\n\nSousveillance, in addition to transparency, can be used to preserve the contextual integrity of surveillance data. For example, a lifelong capture of personal experience could provide \"best evidence\" over external surveillance data, to prevent the surveillance-only data from being taken out of context.\n\nEquiveillance represents a situation where all parties of a society or economy are empowered to be able to use the tools of accountability to make beneficial decisions. Humanity has always sought to establish authority relationships: the increasing trend to record information from our environment, and of ourselves creates the need to delineate the relationships between privacy, surveillance, and sousveillance.\n\nThe emphasis on ubiquitous computing is to be contrasted with wearable computing. As personal cell phones store more information and have the capacity to share it, wearable and mobile computing will make manifest the ability for an individual, or small group of individuals, to monitor larger institutional systems with the goal of developing systems of transparency and accountability. For just as large institutions, such as governments or corporations, store information about the buying habits of the public through an integrated surveillance highway that has a ubiquitous computing infrastructure, individuals can act as consumer activists though a system of inverse surveillance that is based upon a wearable computing infrastructure that assists in maximizing personal privacy and alerting one of information being recorded about the self. Such actions could lead to an equiveillant state, as power and respect are shared.\n\nPanoptic surveillance was described by Michel Foucault in the context of a prison in which prisoners were isolated from each other but visible at all times by guards. Surveillance tends to isolate individuals from one another while setting forth a one-way visibility to authority figures. This isolation leads to social fragmentation.\n\nSousveillance has a community-based origin, such as a personal electronic diary (or weblog), made public on the World Wide Web. Sousveillance tends to bring together individuals, by influencing a large city to function more like a small town: with the pitfalls of gossip, but also the benefits of a sense of community participation. There is a greater degree of responsibility in a sousveillance environment.\n\nUbiquitous computing (\"ubicomp\"), also known as pervasive computing (\"pervcomp\"), is the integration of computers with the environment. Ubiquitous computing tends to rely on cooperation of the immediate infrastructure in the environment, but also has a tendency to centralize information, and hence, centralize authority structures. It also creates segregation, and has implications for social rights such as education and healthcare. Individuals are sorted and classified within a ubiquitous computing environment, leading to a new form of segregation. Ubiquitous computing also places emphasis on copyright law and undermines creative environments due to the controlling tendencies of authority.\n\nWearable computing (\"wearcomp\") refers to portable, wearable computing technologies. Wearcomp doesn't require any special infrastructure in the environment, as the computer is self-contained and self-reliant. With sousveillant computing, it is possible for the focus of control to be more distributed rather than centralized.\n\nA free society is one which places emphasis on respect and the balance of power: in a democratic society, respect and power are shared and well distributed, whereas in a despotic community, respect and power are not shared and are restricted to the few. Increasingly, our society is confronted with the realization of a ubiquitous computing environment, with the infrastructure predicated upon sensor and surveillance systems to function despite efforts to stop such expansions. How we participate in sharing respect and power will converge with how our society conducts surveillance of its citizens, and how citizens conduct sousveillance. Equiveillance represents a harmonious balance that maximizes human freedom, individual rights as well as communal democracy. The field of personal cybernetics will converge with the fields of personal imaging and glogging (CyborgLogging), as individuals store and archive information for personal use and as a form of self-defense.\n\nTo have a society within which personal freedoms and justice are equally distributed, transparency is needed. Transparency increasingly will require dealing with the issues of ubiquitous computing and wearable computing, and maintaining a balance between surveillance and inverse surveillance while maximizing personal privacy.\n\nEquiveillance establishes a social balance between surveillance and sousveillance, as outlined in a general series of comparisons that is known in the published literature as the \"equiveillance table\". There are two kinds of situations that occur when this social balance does not exist: inequiveillance, in which there is a one-sided nature to surveillance (this is the most common situation), and disequiveillance, which is when the balance is not provably one-sided, but, rather, is unequal but not clearly in one or the other direction.\n\nEquiveillance represents a balance of the power relationships that surveillance and sousveillance touch upon. When there is an imbalance, social consequences can range from loss of privacy, to social reactions that in the aggregate lead to unrest and political instability. The idea of disequiveillance is described by Paul Virilio in his treatise on Dromology and the possibility of freedom loss as an accident of our modern world and how it relates to terrorism and war. In this context, the lack of equiveillance (disequiveillance) refers to the anthropological consequences of a world filled with continuous recording devices that encourage a despotic form of government with a tendency to intrude upon the lives of its citizens.\n\nThe evolving field of sousveillance, stems in part from recent research on the topic of surveillance and inverse-surveillance, shedding light on how media technology is changing our sense of privacy and human freedom. Privacy becomes increasingly a measure of freedom and its control central to personal autonomy.\n\nIncreasingly, remembering is influenced by both personal and public search engines, as computing is becoming increasingly dependent upon the human–computer interaction. The issue of being able to control the amount of personal information that escapes and is recorded in the many machines that make up evolving ubiquitous computing world stresses the importance of equiveillance. The impact of surveillance will be increasingly related to the impact of increasing computer storage space and data mining processing speed.\n\nA 2005 article by Margaret Papandreou entitled \"Is nothing Sacred\" also highlights the issue of disequiveillance and how the theft of personal communications with her son undermined her freedom of thought. Mrs Papandreou's personal computer was entered by hackers with malicious intent, with multiple emails, and personal information downloaded and eventually published in book form. The issue of freedom of the press, vs theft of personal property and electronic trespassing, developed into a subsequent legal action against the journalist and member of the Greek Parliament, Liana Kanelli. The issue of public vs. private space comes into the debate. The practice of spying as a political technique creates a flashback to how previous Greek politicians where undermined via covert eavesdropping and a subsequent outcome from the previous decades of the Greek Civil War. The complexity of this case becomes twofold when the person surveillanced is a concerned citizen, and not a politician. Furthermore, the issue of taking personal electronic communication out of context for political and financial gain creates the issue of disequiveillance. This can happen on a personal level, or on a larger social, or institutional level.\n\n\"The correspondence, which included e-mails, was published in late 2000 and early 2001, in the Nemesis magazine, which was run by journalist and MP Liana Kanelli. It was unclear how Kanelli laid hands on the letters, in which the US-born Papandreou advised the FM on his political career, urging him to make use of non-governmental organizations such as the Andreas Papandreou Foundation and the Andreas Papandreou Institute for Strategic and\nDevelopment Studies (ISTAME). Nemesis claimed Papandreou had been trying to influence Greek politics.\" \n\nThe foundations of human freedom also are rooted in the idea of social contract. Biased comments from the conclusion of documents obtained without a search warrant, and against the principles of legal procedure create an unfair forum for judging and condemnation and expose some of the problems of how electronic freedom can be misused towards a systemic persecution and misrepresentation. It also exposes how social instability can rapidly cause a society to evolve into a prison state. Order is maintained in systematic dissolvement of freedom towards a government that operates more like a prison rather than a body of persons made up of \"free individuals\" with an overemphasis of everyone watching everyone, with anyone becoming an informant for whatever side that may be competing for power.\n\nUnbalanced surveillance, and disequiveillance can rapidly deevolve society towards the en-masse phenomena such as racism, scapegoating and even mob reactions towards an individual. It is also of importance to realize that justice is not rooted in vengeance, but rather, the law.\n\nThe Margaret Papandreou case highlights the issue of victimization through use of the media as a form of propaganda. The social emphasis of a big brother society is rapidly transitioning Balkan nations via the prevalence of media support of such systems with an increasingly legal disregard for individual privacy.\n\nThe issue of privacy as part of freedom is in conflict with an absolutely transparent society where all things become recorded and available. The ability to mediate ones visibility increasingly intersects with the concept of wearable computing, as a form of sheltering the individual from a world filled with recorders and sensors. The ability of controlling ones personal information is increasingly part of how one is to maintain ones personal and free space. Hence protecting ones privacy also intersects with the concept of sousveillance.\n\n"}
{"id": "37520136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37520136", "title": "Erica Chenoweth", "text": "Erica Chenoweth\n\nErica Chenoweth (born April 22, 1980) is an American political scientist as well as a faculty member and Ph.D. program co-director at the University of Denver's Josef Korbel School of International Studies. Chenoweth is also the Director of the university's Program on Terrorism and Insurgency Research and a researcher at the Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO). Within the international relations community, she is known for her work on civil resistance movements and political violence.\n\nChenoweth received her B.A. at the University of Dayton, followed by an M.A. and a Ph.D. from the University of Colorado. She previously taught at Wesleyan University until 2012 and completed postdoctoral fellowships at Harvard University and the University of Maryland. Chenoweth joined the University of Denver faculty in 2012.\n\nTogether with Maria J. Stephan of the U.S. Department of State, Chenoweth co-wrote the book, \"Why Civil Resistance Works\". Chenoweth and Stephan organized an international team of scholars in identifying all the major violent and nonviolent governmental change efforts of the twentieth century. They translated the results into a theory of civil resistance and its success rate for political change compared to violent resistance.\n\nTheir team identified over 200 violent revolutions and over 100 nonviolent campaigns. Twenty-six percent of the violent revolutions were successful, while 53 percent of the nonviolent campaigns succeeded. Moreover, (Polity IV scores) indicates that nonviolence promotes democracy while violence promotes tyranny.\n\nIn addition every campaign that got active participation from at least 3.5 percent of the population succeeded, and many succeeded with less. All the campaigns that achieved that threshold were nonviolent; no violent campaign achieved that threshold.\n\nIn 2012 \"Why Civil Resistance Works\" won the American Political Science Association's Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award for \"the best book published in the U.S. during the previous calendar year on government, politics, or international affairs.\"\n\nChenoweth, along with Stephan, also won the 2013 University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award for Ideas for Improving the World Order. Past winners of this award include Mikhail Gorbachev and Robert Keohane.\n\nIn December 2013, \"Foreign Policy\" named Chenoweth one of the Top 100 Global Thinkers of the year \"for proving Gandhi right,\" noting her work on providing evidence for the efficacy of nonviolent political movements. In 2013, Erica also won the Karl Deutsch Award (International Relations) for being \"judged to have made the most significant contribution to the study of International Relations and Peace Research by the means of publication.\"\n\nChenoweth was also awarded the International Studies Association award for \"Best Group Blog of the Year\". It was awarded the blog \"Violence @ a Glance\", which she founded with Barbara F. Walter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31529690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31529690", "title": "Ersu Shaba script", "text": "Ersu Shaba script\n\nThe Ersu Shaba script, also called \"Ersu Shaba Picture Writing\" and known in Ersu as , is the writing system used in texts of the indigenous religion of the Ersu people, which is rendered in Chinese as \"Shābā\" (沙巴). These scriptures are recited in divination and when treating the sick. The script is used for non-scriptural texts as well, such as astrological almanacs, but predominantly ones which concern religion. Only Shaba priests are literate in the script.\n\nThe script is predominantly pictographic. It is limited in scope and is not sufficient to write the Ersu language fully. Some 200 glyphs have been identified, most of them depicting (and resembling) concrete objects. These are combined into composite diagrams. The system is (proto-)writing, as the relationship between form and meaning is fixed: Although glyphs may be written simply or elaborately, they may not be chosen at the author's whim, and pronunciation and interpretation is consistent across the several counties of the Ersu-speaking area. However, it typically takes many words to explain a few glyphs; the connection to language is definite in the object depicted, but the position and context of the glyphs does not have a fixed linguistic correlation.\n\nWriting is done with a bamboo brush or animal hair dipped in white, black, red, blue, green, and yellow-colored ink. The color chosen may affect the meaning. For example, the glyph 'stars and moon' written in black means 'dim', but written in white it means 'shining' (Sun 2009:165).\n\nA sample of Ersu Shaba glyphs:\n\nFollowing is a reading and explanation of the frame from a Shaba book illustrated at the top of the page. \n\nReading:\nExplanation. (The reading is not in any particular order; the explanation will start with the glyph in the center and then go clockwise.)\n\nIn the center of the diagram is a dog's head, meaning it is a 'dog day'. The dog's body is red, meaning it's also a fire day. The combination means the ninth day of the first lunar month. At the bottom left is fog, meaning the morning will be foggy; if the fog were on the right, it would be in the evening. Above that is a red \"tsá\" jug with a handle (#27 in the table above); \"tsá\" jugs are used for alcohol, and the auspicious red color means that the drinking will be good on that day, meaning the day itself will be comparatively good. At the top left are three stars (22 above), two black and one white; a black star is dim, a white star shining. [Meaning unclear.] At top right is the Sun (18 above) crossed out in chains, meaning it will be hindered and the weather will not be good. The \"npʰópá\" (a religious implement) and the ritual \"tsʰintʃʰá\" knife, which can overcome negative forces, indicate that positive and negative forces will balance.\n\nThe Ersu text speaks of a 'white moon', meaning the first half of the month (a black moon is the second half of the month), but it is not clear how this is indicated. The earth deity is not directly mentioned, and must be inferred (Sun p 178).\n"}
{"id": "21923824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21923824", "title": "Ideal ring bundle", "text": "Ideal ring bundle\n\nIdeal ring bundle or gold ring bundle is a mathematical term which means an \"n\"-stage cyclic sequence of semi-measured terms, e.g. integers for which the set of all circular sums enumerates row of natural numbers by fixed times. The circular sum is called a sum of consecutive terms in the \"n\"-sequence of any number of terms (from 1 to \"n\" − 1).\n\nFor example, the cyclic sequence (1, 3, 2, 7) is an Ideal Ring Bundle because four (\"n\" = 4) its terms enumerate of all natural numbers from 1 to \"n\"(\"n\" − 1) = 12 as its starting term, and can be of any number of summing terms by exactly one (\"R\" = 1) way:\n\nThe cyclic sequence (1, 1, 2, 3) is an ideal ring bundle also, because four (\"n\" = 4) its terms enumerate all numbers of the natural row from 1 to \"n\"(\"n\" − 1)/\"R\" = 6 as its starting term, and can be of any number of summing terms by exactly two (\"R\" = 2) ways:\n\n"}
{"id": "32873814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32873814", "title": "Image-based flow visualization", "text": "Image-based flow visualization\n\nIn scientific visualization, image-based flow visualization (or visualisation) is a computer modelling technique developed by Jarke van Wijk to visualize two dimensional flows of liquids such as water and air, like the wind movement of a tornado. Compared with integration techniques it has the advantage of producing a whole image at every step, as the technique relies upon graphical computing methods for frame-by-frame capture of the model of advective transport of a decaying dye. It is a method from the texture advection family.\n\nThe core idea is to create a noise texture on a regular grid and then bend this grid according to the flow (the vector field). The bent grid is then sampled at the original grid locations. Thus, the output is a version of the noise, that is displaced according to the flow.\n\nThe advantage of this approach is that it can be accelerated on modern graphics hardware, thus allowing for real-time or almost real-time simulation of 2D flow data. This is particularly handy if one wants to visualise multiple scaled versions of the vector field to first gain an overview and then concentrate on the details.\n\n"}
{"id": "32890980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32890980", "title": "Indifference price", "text": "Indifference price\n\nIn finance, indifference pricing is a method of pricing financial securities with regard to a utility function. The indifference price is also known as the reservation price or private valuation. In particular, the indifference price is the price at which an agent would have the same expected utility level by exercising a financial transaction as by not doing so (with optimal trading otherwise). Typically the indifference price is a pricing range (a bid-ask spread) for a specific agent; this price range is an example of good-deal bounds.\n\nGiven a utility function formula_1 and a claim formula_2 with known payoffs at some terminal time formula_3 let the function formula_4 be defined by\nwhere formula_6 is the initial endowment, formula_7 is the set of all self-financing portfolios at time formula_8 starting with endowment formula_6, and formula_10 is the number of the claim to be purchased (or sold). Then the indifference bid price formula_11 for formula_10 units of formula_2 is the solution of formula_14 and the indifference ask price formula_15 is the solution of formula_16. The indifference price bound is the range formula_17.\n\nConsider a market with a risk free asset formula_18 with formula_19 and formula_20, and a risky asset formula_21 with formula_22 and formula_23 each with probability formula_24. Let your utility function be given by formula_25. To find either the bid or ask indifference price for a single European call option with strike 110, first calculate formula_26.\n\nWhich is maximized when formula_29, therefore formula_30.\n\nNow to find the indifference bid price solve for formula_31\n\nWhich is maximized when formula_34, therefore formula_35.\n\nTherefore formula_36 when formula_37.\n\nSimilarly solve for formula_38 to find the indifference ask price.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1429237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429237", "title": "Induced gravity", "text": "Induced gravity\n\nInduced gravity (or emergent gravity) is an idea in quantum gravity that space-time curvature and its dynamics emerge as a mean field approximation of underlying microscopic degrees of freedom, similar to the fluid mechanics approximation of Bose–Einstein condensates. The concept was originally proposed by Andrei Sakharov in 1967.\n\nSakharov observed that many condensed matter systems give rise to emergent phenomena that are analogous to general relativity. For example, crystal defects can look like curvature and torsion in an Einstein–Cartan spacetime. This allows one to create a theory of gravity with torsion from a world crystal model of spacetime in which the lattice spacing is of the order of a Planck length.\nSakharov's idea was to start with an arbitrary background pseudo-Riemannian manifold (in modern treatments, possibly with torsion) and introduce quantum fields (matter) on it but not introduce any gravitational dynamics explicitly. This gives rise to an effective action which to one-loop order contains the Einstein–Hilbert action with a cosmological constant. In other words, general relativity arises as an emergent property of matter fields and is not put in by hand. On the other hand, such models typically predict huge cosmological constants.\n\nSome argue that the particular models proposed by Sakharov and others have been proven impossible by the Weinberg–Witten theorem. However, models with emergent gravity are possible as long as other things, such as spacetime dimensions, emerge together with gravity. Developments in AdS/CFT correspondence after 1997 suggest that the microphysical degrees of freedom in induced gravity might be radically different. The bulk space-time arises as an emergent phenomenon of the quantum degrees of freedom that are entangled and live in the boundary of the space-time. According to some prominent researchers in emergent gravity (such as Mark Van Raamsdonk) spacetime is built up of quantum entanglement. This implies that quantum entanglement is the fundamental property that gives rise to spacetime. In 1995, Jacobson showed that the Einstein field equations can be derived from the first law of thermodynamics applied at local Rindler horizons. Thanu Padmanabhan and Erik Verlinde explore links between gravity and entropy. The Einstein equation for gravity can emerge from the entanglement first law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6366835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6366835", "title": "Landfill mining", "text": "Landfill mining\n\nLandfill mining and reclamation (LFMR) is a process whereby solid wastes \nwhich have previously been landfilled are excavated and processed. The function of landfill mining is to reduce the amount of landfill mass encapsulated within the closed landfill and/or temporarily remove hazardous material to allow protective measures to be taken before the landfill mass is replaced. In the process, mining recovers valuable recyclable materials, a combustible fraction, soil, and landfill space. The aeration of the landfill soil is a secondary benefit regarding the landfill's future use. The combustible fraction is useful for the generation of power. The overall appearance of the landfill mining procedure is a sequence of processing machines laid out in a functional conveyor system. The operating principle is to excavate, sieve and sort the landfill material.\n\nThe concept of mining was introduced as early as 1953 at the Hiriya landfill operated by the Dan Region Authority next to the city of Tel Aviv, Israel. Waste contains many resources with high value, the most notable of which are non-ferrous metals such as aluminium cans and scrap metal. The concentration of aluminium in many landfills is higher than the concentration of aluminum in bauxite from which the metal is derived.\n\nLandfill mining is also possible in countries where land is not available for new landfill sites. In this instance landfill space can be reclaimed by the extraction of biodegradable waste and other substances then refilled with wastes requiring disposal.\n\nMining construction landfill sites is the simplest form of landfill mining. Construction landfills in the United States contain three basic components, wood, scrap metal and gypsum, or drywall, along with a minimal amount of other construction materials. The wood collected can be used as fuel in coal burning power plants and the scrap metal reprocessed. European landfills tend to have more masonry from demolished bricks, tiles and concrete.\n\nMining of municipal landfills is more complicated and has to be based on the expected content of the landfill. Older landfills, in the United States before 1994, were often capped and closed, essentially entombing the waste. This can be beneficial for waste recovery. It can also create a higher risk for toxic waste and leachate exposure as the landfill has not fully processed the stewing wastes. Mining of bioreactor landfills and properly stabilized modern sanitary landfills provides its own benefits. The biodegradable wastes are more easily sieved out, leaving the non-biodegradable materials readily accessible. The quality of these materials for recycling and reprocessing purposes is not as high as initially recycled materials, however materials such as aluminum and steel are usually excluded from this. \nLandfill mining is most useful as a method to remediate hazardous landfills. Landfills that were established before landfill liner technology was well established often leak their unprocessed leachate into underlying aquifers. This is both an environmental hazard and also a legal liability. In the US, the Environmental Protection Agency requires closed landfills to be monitored for at least 30 years after waste placement ceases. Mining the landfill simply to lay a safe liner is a last, but sometimes necessary resort.\n\nThe parts of the mining process are the different mining machines. Depending on the complexity of the process more or fewer machines can be used. Machinery is easily transported on trucks from site to site, mounted on trailers.\n\nAn excavator or front end loader uncovers the landfilled materials and places them on a moving floor conveyor belt to be taken to the sorting machinery. A trommel is used to separate materials by size. First, a large trommel separates materials like appliances and fabrics. A smaller trommel then allows the biodegraded soil fraction to pass through leaving non-biodegradable, recyclable materials on the screen to be collected. \n\nAn electromagnet is used to remove the ferrous material from the waste mass as it passes along the conveyor belt.\n\nA front end loader is used to move sorted materials to trucks for further processing.\n\nOdor control sprayers are wheeled tractors with a cab and movable spray arm mounted on a rotating platform. A large reservoir tank mounted behind the cab holds neutralizing agents, usually in liquid form, to reduce the smell of exposed wastes.\n\nDepending on the level of resource recovery, material can be put through an air classifier which separates light organic material from heavy organic material. The separate streams are then loaded, by front end loaders, onto trucks either for further processing or for sale. Further manual processing can be done on site if processing facilities are too far away to justify the transportation costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "18772250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18772250", "title": "List of periods of regional peace", "text": "List of periods of regional peace\n\nThe word \"pax\" together with the Latin name of an empire or nation is used to refer to a period of peace or at least stability, enforced by a hegemon.\n\n"}
{"id": "19866441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19866441", "title": "Looting of Battleford", "text": "Looting of Battleford\n\nThe Looting of Battleford began at the end of March, 1885, during the North-West Rebellion, in the town of Battleford, Saskatchewan, then a part of the Northwest Territories.\n\nWithin days of the Métis victory at the Battle of Duck Lake on March 26, 1885. Cree bands sympathetic to the Métis cause and with grievances of their own began raiding stores and farms in the western part of the District of Saskatchewan for arms, ammunition and food supplies while civilians fled to the larger settlements and forts of the North-West Territories.\n\nProminent leaders of this uprising were Chief Poundmaker and Chief Big Bear. Poundmaker and his band had a reserve near present-day Cut Knife about 50 km (31 miles) west of Fort Battleford. Big Bear and his band had settled near Frog Lake about 55 km (34 miles) northwest of Fort Pitt but had not yet selected a reserve site. Both bands were signatories of Treaty 6 and were unhappy in the way it was implemented by the Canadian government. The loss of the buffalo and the inadequate rations provided by the Indian agents kept the bands in a continual state of near-starvation.\n\nThe District of Saskatchewan in 1885 was divided into three sub-districts and had a population of 10,595. To the east the Carrot River sub-district with 1,770 people remained quiet. The Prince Albert sub-district located in the centre of the district had a population of 5,373 which included the Southbranch settlements with about 1,300. The Southbranch settlements was the centre of Louis Riel's Provisional Government during the Rebellion. To the west where the Cree uprising led by Poundmaker and Big Bear occurred was the Battleford sub-district with 3,603 people.\n\nThe largest settlement and the capital of the district was Prince Albert with about 800 people followed by Battleford with about 500 people \"divided about equally between French, Métis and English\".\n\nBattleford is located on the Battle River near the North Saskatchewan River. On the south side of the Battle River was the Old Town and on the north side nearest the North Saskatchewan River was the New Town and Fort Battleford.\n\nThe city of North Battleford was founded later in 1905 when the construction of the Canadian Northern Railway main line to Edmonton placed the line on the north side of the North Saskatchewan River.\n\nOn March 28 as news that several Indian bands including Poundmaker's were on their way to Battleford settlers began moving into the nearby North-West Mounted Police post, Fort Battleford which was under the command of Colonel Morris and 25 police. Over the next several days 500 civilians would take refuge within the palisades. Many crossed over an unstable ice bridge on the Battle River leaving most of their possessions behind in the Old Town. During the night of March 29 nearby homesteads were raided their horses and cattle rounded up by the bands.\n\nAlso on the trail to join Poundmaker in Battleford were the Assiniboine from the Eagle Hills approximately 30 km south of Battleford. On March 29 they killed their farm instructor John Payne and raided homesteads on the way killing a farmer by the name of Fremont.\n\nOn March 30 Poundmaker asked for a meeting with the Indian agent J. M. Rae. \nAfter Rae refused to meet with him the combined Battleford bands took food and supplies from the abandoned stores and houses. The next day the bands camped a few miles away bringing with them their looted provisions including cattle and horses then eventually returned to Poundmaker's reserve.\nWhile the New Town was protected by its proximity to the Fort and its cannon the Old Town was not. Every day until the arrival of Colonel Otter's column on April 24 the occupants of the Fort watched as the Old Town about a mile away was plundered. Stolen vehicles and horses carried away the supplies of the Hudson's Bay Company and the other merchants. All the public buildings were sacked including the Battleford Industrial School (located in the Old Government House). Most homes were burned including the imposing home of Judge Charles Rouleau. Just half a dozen were left standing.\n\nOn May 2 Colonel Otter's column attacked Poundmaker's camp at Cut Knife Creek but was forced to retreat to Battleford. Poundmaker prevented his warriors from attacking the retreating troops.\n\nOn May 14 at Eagle Hills a Battleford band captured a wagon train carrying supplies for Colonel Otter's column.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Métis force at the Battle of Batoche and the surrender of Louis Riel to Middleton on May 15 Pitikwahanapiwiyin (Poundmaker) surrendered to General Middleton at Fort Battleford on May 26.\n\nThe nature of the Cree advance on Battleford, like the entire 1885 Rebellion, is a source of historiographical controversy. Historian Douglas Hill characterized the Cree group as a \"war party ... ready to take revenge for a winter of incalculable suffering\" who \"swooped on Battleford, killing six whites\". George F. G. Stanley's writing on the subject indicated that the Cree were not murderous but more haphazard and bumbling: they \"[did] not appear to have in mind an attack upon the town\" but were content with \"prowling around the neighbourhood\". While John L. Tobias says that the Crees tried to demonstrate their \"peaceful intent\" by including women and children in their group, simply took food to sustain themselves after finding the town abandoned, and then withdrew to avoid conflict with the police.\n\n"}
{"id": "35720571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35720571", "title": "Mars flyby", "text": "Mars flyby\n\nA Mars flyby is a movement of spacecraft passing in the vicinity of the planet Mars, but not entering orbit or landing on it. Unmanned space probes have used this method to collect data on Mars, as opposed to orbiting or landing. A spacecraft designed for a flyby is also known as a \"flyby bus\" or \"flyby spacecraft\".\n\nOne application of a Mars flyby is for a human mission, where after landing and staying on the surface for some time the ascent stage has a space rendezvous with another, unmanned spacecraft, that was launched separately from Earth, flying by. This would mean the ascent stage of the lander to reach the speed necessary equal to that of the spacecraft flying by, but the resources needed for Earth return would not have to enter or leave Mars orbit.\n\nThe spacecraft they live in on the journey to Mars does the flyby, but the crew separates and goes into a lander. The Excursion module's ascent stage must rejoin the main spacecraft before it gets too far away. An advantage is that the resources needed for Earth return don't have to enter and leave Mars orbit, but the ascent stage has to perform space rendezvous in solar orbit and the time on Mars is constrained by the need to this. Mars cyclers orbit the Sun in such a way as to pass by Mars and the Earth on regular intervals, performing Mars flybys on regular intervals. The crews would live on the stations during the interplanetary voyages. The concept for Flyby Excursion Landing Module is that a lander and flyby would separate in solar orbit, the lander would accelerate to get to Mars first, then land on Mars meanwhile the other segment does a Mars flyby, then the lander takes off and rendezvous with the flyby segment transferring the crew over. (see also Mars Excursion Module (MEM))\n\nAlternately, a flyby-only human mission is also possible, without detaching at Mars, but to slingshot around Mars and back to Earth.\n\nIn July 1965, Mariner 4 achieved a flyby of Mars with a return of data, providing the public and scientists with dramatically closer images of Mars. During the flyby Mariner 4 took 21 pictures amounting to about 1% of the surface of Mars. Mars was not globally mapped until the Mariner 9 orbiter, which over the course of 1972 to 1973 took thousands of images up to 100m a pixel. Observations from optical ground-based Earth telescopes have to peer through the atmosphere which blurred images, typically limiting them to resolving features about across even when Earth and Mars are closest.\n\nIn October 1999, Deep Space 1 made observations of Mars after its flyby of asteroid Braille. Although this was a very distant flyby it did succeed in taking multiple infrared spectra with its MICAS instrument of the planet.\n\nIn 2018, Mars Cube One (MarCO), two flyby CubeSats to relay communication from \"InSight\" lander during its EDL were launched towards Mars with the cruise stage. Both MarCOs reached Mars and successfully relayed data during the entry, descent, and landing phase of \"Insight\" on November 26, 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55227434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55227434", "title": "Micha Popper", "text": "Micha Popper\n\nMicha Popper is a professor emeritus in the department of psychology at the University of Haifa, Israel. He was the commander of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Leadership Development School (LDS), co-founder and director of the Institute for Quality Leadership in Israel, and, from 1995 he was a faculty member and head of the Organizational Psychology program at the University of Haifa. \n\nPopper received his BA in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and his MA and PhD in Tel Aviv University. \n\nAt the beginning of his research career Popper focused on exploring the origins of leadership in early childhood. Most knowledge in this field is inferred from biographies and studies (based mostly on psycho-dynamic analyses) of well-known people. His work in this field led him to formulate a conceptual framework dealing with three components relevant to being and functioning as a leader: (1) the psychological potential to lead (P); (2) the motivation to be in a leadership position (M); (3) the environment (e.g. role models, accessibility to leadership experiences...), namely the developmental component (D). Popper and his colleagues have contributed to the identification, definition, evaluation and measurement of each of these components. \n\nIn his later career, Popper observed that in the Western world, particularly the US, leadership was usually perceived as a positive phenomenon and leaders were socially respected, often even admired. However, history also points to dark manifestations of leadership. This aspect has been discussed by historians but largely neglected in psychological research on leadership. Popper’s work sheds light on the psychological foundations of the dark side of leadership. \nThe continuation of Popper’s professional development led him to realize that psychological research on leadership was excessively preoccupied with leaders and there were not enough theoretical and empirical attempts to decipher the phenomenon of followership, without which the phenomenon of leadership cannot be fully understood. \n\nIn recent years Popper’s work has focused on primary foundations of followership, both the phylogenetic elements and the cultural components that “color” differently leaders’ perceptions and images in various cultures. .\nIn addition to his work in the domain of leadership, for many years Popper has also studied the field of “organizational learning.” His work in this area has focused mostly on two questions:.How do people learn from their own experiences? and, how do lessons learned on a personal level become organizational knowledge? \n\nThe first question involves the development of concepts and methodologies for identifying “tacit knowledge” – knowledge created out of experience without awareness. Such knowledge is at the disposal of people when solving problems (as Polanyi puts it:” We know more than we can tell”). \nThe second question led Popper and his colleagues to study the structural and cultural aspects that characterize effective learning in organizations. These studies focused on organizational learning mechanisms such as debriefing of air force pilots or debriefing of medical staff performing operatrions.\n"}
{"id": "232495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232495", "title": "Motivation", "text": "Motivation\n\nMotivation is the reason for people's actions, willingness and goals. Motivation is derived from the word \"motive\" which is defined as a need that requires satisfaction. These needs could also be wants or desires that are acquired through influence of culture, society, lifestyle, etc. or generally innate. Motivation is one's direction to behavior, or what causes a person to want to repeat a behavior, a set of force that acts behind the motives. An individual's motivation may be inspired by others or events (extrinsic motivation) or it may come from within the individual (intrinsic motivation). Motivation has been considered as one of the most important reasons that inspires a person to move forward. Mastering motivation to allow sustained and deliberate practice is central to high levels of achievement e.g. in the worlds of elite sport, medicine or music.\n\nMotivation as a desire to perform an action is usually defined as having two parts, directional such as directed towards a positive stimulus or away from a negative one, as well as the activated \"seeking phase\" and consummatory \"liking phase\". This type of motivation has neurobiological roots in the basal ganglia, and mesolimbic, dopaminergic pathways. Activated \"seeking\" behavior, such as locomotor activity, is influenced by dopaminergic drugs, and microdialysis experiments reveal that dopamine is released during the anticipation of a reward. The \"wanting behavior\" associated with a rewarding stimulus can be increased by microinjections of dopamine and dopaminergic drugs in the dorsorostral nucleus accumbens and posterior ventral palladum. Opioid injections in this area produce pleasure, however outside of these hedonic hotspots they create an increased desire. Furthermore, depletion or inhibition of dopamine in neurons of the nucleus accumbens decreases appetitive but not consummatory behavior. Dopamine is further implicated in motivation as administration of amphetamine increased the break point in a progressive ratio self-reinforcement schedule. That is, subjects were willing to go to greater lengths (e.g. press a lever more times) to obtain a reward.\n\nMotivation can be conceived of as a cycle in which thoughts influence behaviors, drive performance affects thoughts, and the cycle begins again. Each stage of the cycle is composed of many dimensions including attitudes, beliefs, intentions, effort, and withdrawal which can all affect the motivation that an individual experiences. Most psychological theories hold that motivation exists purely within the individual, but socio-cultural theories express motivation as an outcome of participation in actions and activities within the cultural context of social groups.\n\nThe natural system assumes that people have higher order needs, which contrasts with the rational theory that suggests people dislike work and only respond to rewards and punishment.<ref name=\"Lecture 10/1\">Dobbin, Frank. “From Incentives to Teamwork: Rational and Natural Management Systems.” Lecture. Harvard University. Cambridge, Massachusetts. 1 October 2012.</ref> According to McGregor's Theory Y, human behavior is based on satisfying a hierarchy of needs: physiological, safety, social, ego, and self-fulfillment.\n\nPhysiological needs are the lowest and most important level. These fundamental requirements include food, rest, shelter, and exercise. After physiological needs are satisfied, employees can focus on safety needs, which include “protection against danger, threat, deprivation.” However, if management makes arbitrary or biased employment decisions, then an employee's safety needs are unfulfilled.\n\nThe next set of needs is social, which refers to the desire for acceptance, affiliation, reciprocal friendships and love. As such, the natural system of management assumes that close-knit work teams are productive. Accordingly, if an employee's social needs are unmet, then he will act disobediently.\n\nThere are two types of egoistic needs, the second-highest order of needs. The first type refers to one's self-esteem, which encompasses self-confidence, independence, achievement, competence, and knowledge. The second type of needs deals with reputation, status, recognition, and respect from colleagues. Egoistic needs are much more difficult to satisfy.\n\nThe highest order of needs is for self-fulfillment, including recognition of one's full potential, areas for self-improvement, and the opportunity for creativity. This differs from the rational system, which assumes that people prefer routine and security to creativity. Unlike the rational management system, which assumes that humans don’t care about these higher order needs, the natural system is based on these needs as a means for motivation.\n\nTo successfully manage and motivate employees, the natural system posits that being part of a group is necessary. Because of structural changes in social order, the workplace is more fluid and adaptive according to Mayo. As a result, individual employees have lost their sense of stability and security, which can be provided by a membership in a group. However, if teams continuously change within jobs, then employees feel anxious, empty, and irrational and become harder to work with. The innate desire for lasting human association and management “is not related to single workers, but always to working groups.” In groups, employees will self-manage and form relevant customs, duties, and traditions.\n\nHumans are motivated by additional factors besides wage incentives. Unlike the rational theory of motivation, people are not driven toward economic interests per the natural system. For instance, the straight piecework system pays employees based on each unit of their output. Based on studies such as the Bank Wiring Observation Room, using a piece rate incentive system does not lead to higher production. Employees actually set upper limits on each person's daily output. These actions stand “in direct opposition to the ideas underlying their system of financial incentive, which countenanced no upper limit to performance other than physical capacity.” Therefore, as opposed to the rational system that depends on economic rewards and punishments, the natural system of management assumes that humans are also motivated by non-economic factors.\n\nEmployees seek autonomy and responsibility in their work, contrary to assumptions of the rational theory of management. Because supervisors have direct authority over employees, they must ensure that the employee's actions are in line with the standards of efficient conduct. This creates a sense of restriction on the employee and these constraints are viewed as “annoying and seemingly functioned only as subordinating or differentiating mechanisms.\" Accordingly, the natural management system assumes that employees prefer autonomy and responsibility on the job and dislike arbitrary rules and overwhelming supervision. An individual's motivation to complete a task is increased when this task is autonomous. When the motivation to complete a task comes from an \"external pressure\" that pressure then \"undermines\" a person's motivation, and as a result decreases a persons desire to complete the task. \n\nThe idea that human beings are rational and human behavior is guided by reason is an old one. However, recent research (on satisficing for example) has significantly undermined the idea of homo economicus or of perfect rationality in favour of a more bounded rationality. The field of behavioural economics is particularly concerned with the limits of rationality in economic agents.\n\nMotivation can be divided into two different theories known as \"intrinsic\" (internal or inherent) motivation and \"extrinsic\" (external) motivation.\n\nIntrinsic motivation has been studied since the early 1970s. Intrinsic motivation is the self-desire to seek out new things and new challenges, to analyze one's capacity, to observe and to gain knowledge. It is driven by an interest or enjoyment in the task itself, and exists within the individual rather than relying on external pressures or a desire for consideration. The phenomenon of intrinsic motivation was first acknowledged within experimental studies of animal behavior. In these studies, it was evident that the organisms would engage in playful and curiosity-driven behaviors in the absence of reward. Intrinsic motivation is a natural motivational tendency and is a critical element in cognitive, social, and physical development. The two necessary elements for intrinsic motivation are self-determination and an increase in perceived competence. In short, the cause of the behavior must be internal, known as internal local of causality, and the individual who engages in the behavior must perceive that the task increases their competence. \n\nStudents who are intrinsically motivated are more likely to engage in the task willingly as well as work to improve their skills, which will increase their capabilities. Students are likely to be intrinsically motivated if they...\n\nAn example of intrinsic motivation is when an employee becomes an IT professional because he or she wants to learn about how computer users interact with computer networks. The employee has the intrinsic motivation to gain more knowledge. Art for art's sake is an example of intrinsic motivation in the domain of art.\n\nTraditionally, researchers thought of motivations to use computer systems to be primarily driven by extrinsic purposes; however, many modern systems have their use driven primarily by intrinsic motivations. Examples of such systems used primarily to fulfil users' intrinsic motivations, include on-line gaming, virtual worlds, online shopping, learning/education, online dating, digital music repositories, social networking, online pornography, gamified systems, and general gamification. Even traditional management information systems (e.g., ERP, CRM) are being 'gamified' such that both extrinsic and intrinsic motivations must increasingly be considered.\n\nNot only can intrinsic motivation be used in a personal setting, but it can also be implemented and utilized in a social environment. Instead of attaining mature desires, such as those presented above via internet which can be attained on one's own, intrinsic motivation can be used to assist extrinsic motivation to attain a goal. For example, Eli, a 4-year-old with autism, wants to achieve the goal of playing with a toy train. To get the toy, he must first communicate to his therapist that he wants it. His desire to play is strong enough to be considered intrinsic motivation because it is a natural feeling, and his desire to communicate with his therapist to get the train can be considered extrinsic motivation because the outside object is a reward (see incentive theory). Communicating with the therapist is the first, slightly more challenging goal that stands in the way of achieving his larger goal of playing with the train. Achieving these goals in attainable pieces is also known as the goal-setting theory. \n\n\"Advantages\": Intrinsic motivation can be long-lasting and self-sustaining. Efforts to build this kind of motivation are also typically efforts at promoting student learning. Such efforts often focus on the subject rather than rewards or punishments.\n\n\"Disadvantages\": Efforts at fostering intrinsic motivation can be slow to affect behavior and can require special and lengthy preparation. Students are individuals, so a variety of approaches may be needed to motivate different students. It is often helpful to know what interests one's students in order to connect these interests with the subject matter. This requires getting to know one's students. Also, it helps if the instructor is interested in the subject.\n\nExtrinsic motivation comes from influences outside of the individual. In extrinsic motivation, the harder question to answer is where do people get the motivation to carry out and continue to push with persistence. Usually extrinsic motivation is used to attain outcomes that a person wouldn't get from intrinsic motivation. Common extrinsic motivations are rewards (for example money or grades) for showing the desired behavior, and the threat of punishment following misbehavior. Competition is an extrinsic motivator because it encourages the performer to win and to beat others, not simply to enjoy the intrinsic rewards of the activity. A cheering crowd and the desire to win a trophy are also extrinsic incentives.\n\nThe most simple distinction between extrinsic and intrinsic motivation is the type of reasons or goals that lead to an action. While intrinsic motivation refers to doing something because it is inherently interesting or enjoyable, extrinsic motivation, refers to doing something because it leads to a separable outcome. Extrinsic motivation thus contrasts with intrinsic motivation, which is doing an activity simply for the enjoyment of the activity itself, instead of for its instrumental value. \n\nSocial psychological research has indicated that extrinsic rewards can lead to overjustification and a subsequent reduction in intrinsic motivation. In one study demonstrating this effect, children who expected to be (and were) rewarded with a ribbon and a gold star for drawing pictures spent less time playing with the drawing materials in subsequent observations than children who were assigned to an unexpected reward condition. However, another study showed that third graders who were rewarded with a book showed more reading behavior in the future, implying that some rewards do not undermine intrinsic motivation. While the provision of extrinsic rewards might reduce the desirability of an activity, the use of extrinsic constraints, such as the threat of punishment, against performing an activity has actually been found to increase one's intrinsic interest in that activity. In one study, when children were given mild threats against playing with an attractive toy, it was found that the threat actually served to increase the child's interest in the toy, which was previously undesirable to the child in the absence of threat.\n\nDesirable subjective state a person experiences when completely involved in some challenging activity that matches the individual skill.\n\n“A state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the experience is so enjoyable that people will continue to do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing it.”\n\n– Csikszentmihalyi, 1990\n\nFlow theory, the idea of flow theory as first conceptualized by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Flow in the context of motivation can be seen as an activity that is not too hard, frustrating or madding, or too easy boring and done too fast. If one has achieved perfect flow, then the activity has reached maximum potential. \n\nFlow is part of something called positive psychology of the psychology of happiness. Positive psychology looks into what makes a person happy. Flow can be considered as achieving happiness or at the least positive feelings. A study that was published in the journal \"Emotion\" looked at flow experienced in college students playing Tetris. The students that they were being evaluated on looks then told to wait and play Tetris. There were three categories; Easy, normal, and hard. The students that played Tetris on normal level experienced flow and were less stressed about the evaluation. \n\nCsikszentmihalyi describes 8 characteristics of flow as a complete concentration on the task, clarity of goals and reward in mind and immediate feedback, transformation of time (speeding up/slowing down of time), the experience is intrinsically rewarding, effortlessness and ease, there is a balance between challenge and skills, actions and awareness are merged, losing self-conscious rumination, there is a feeling of control over the task.\n\nThe activity no longer becomes something seen as a means to an end and it becomes something an individual wants to do. This can be seen as someone who likes to run for the sheer joy of running and not because they need to do it for exercise or because they want to brag about it. Peak flow can be different for each person. It could take an individual years to reach flow or only moments. If an individual becomes too good at an activity they can become bored. If the challenge becomes too hard then the individual could become discouraged and want to quit.\n\nWhile many theories on motivation have a mentalistic perspective, behaviorists focus only on observable behavior and theories founded on experimental evidence. In the view of behaviorism, motivation is understood as a question about what factors cause, prevent, or withhold various behaviors, while the question of, for instance, conscious motives would be ignored. Where others would speculate about such things as values, drives, or needs, that may not be observed directly, behaviorists are interested in the observable variables that affect the type, intensity, frequency and duration of observable behavior. Through the basic research of such scientists as Pavlov, Watson and Skinner, several basic mechanisms that govern behavior have been identified. The most important of these are classical conditioning and operant conditioning.\n\nIn classical (or respondent) conditioning, behavior is understood as responses triggered by certain environmental or physical stimuli. They can be \"unconditioned\", such as in-born reflexes, or learned through the pairing of an unconditioned stimulus with a different stimulus, which then becomes a conditioned stimulus. In relation to motivation, classical conditioning might be seen as one explanation as to why an individual performs certain responses and behaviors in certain situations. For instance, a dentist might wonder why a patient does not seem motivated to show up for an appointment, with the explanation being that the patient has associated the dentist (conditioned stimulus) with the pain (unconditioned stimulus) that elicits a fear response (conditioned response), leading to the patient being reluctant to visit the dentist.\n\nIn operant conditioning, the type and frequency of behavior is determined mainly by its consequences. If a certain behavior, in the presence of a certain stimulus, is followed by a desirable consequence (a reinforcer), the emitted behavior will increase in frequency in the future, in the presence of the stimulus that preceded the behavior (or a similar one). Conversely, if the behavior is followed by something undesirable (a punisher), the behavior is less likely to occur in the presence of the stimulus. In a similar manner, removal of a stimulus directly following the behavior might either increase or decrease the frequency of that behavior in the future (negative reinforcement or punishment). For instance, a student that gained praise and a good grade after turning in a paper, might seem more motivated in writing papers in the future (positive reinforcement); if the same student put in a lot of work on a task without getting any praise for it, he or she might seem less motivated to do school work in the future (negative punishment). If a student starts to cause trouble in class gets punished with something he or she dislikes, such as detention (positive punishment), that behavior would decrease in the future. The student might seem more motivated to behave in class, presumably in order to avoid further detention (negative reinforcement).\n\nThe strength of reinforcement or punishment is dependent on schedule and timing. A reinforcer or punisher affects the future frequency of a behavior most strongly if it occurs within seconds of the behavior. A behavior that is reinforced intermittently, at unpredictable intervals, will be more robust and persistent, compared to one that is reinforced every time the behavior is performed. For example, if the misbehaving student in the above example was punished a week after the troublesome behavior, that might not affect future behavior.\n\nIn addition to these basic principles, environmental stimuli also affect behavior. Behavior is punished or reinforced in the context of whatever stimuli were present just before the behavior was performed, which means that a particular behavior might not be affected in every environmental context, or situation, after it is punished or reinforced in one specific context. A lack of praise for school-related behavior might, for instance, not decrease after-school sports-related behavior that is usually reinforced by praise.\n\nThe various mechanisms of operant conditioning may be used to understand the motivation for various behaviors by examining what happens just after the behavior (the consequence), in what context the behavior is performed or not performed (the antecedent), and under what circumstances (motivating operators).\n\nIncentive theory is a specific theory of motivation, derived partly from behaviorist principles of reinforcement, which concerns an incentive or motive to do something. The most common incentive would be a compensation. Compensation can be tangible or intangible, It helps in motivating the employees in their corporate life, students in academics and inspire to do more and more to achieve profitability in every field. Studies show that if the person receives the reward immediately, the effect is greater, and decreases as delay lengthens. Repetitive action-reward combination can cause the action to become a habit.\n\n\"Reinforcers and reinforcement principles of behavior differ from the hypothetical construct of reward.\" A reinforcer is anything that follows an action, with the intentions that the action will now occur more frequently. From this perspective, the concept of distinguishing between intrinsic and extrinsic forces is irrelevant.\n\nIncentive theory in psychology treats motivation and behavior of the individual as they are influenced by beliefs, such as engaging in activities that are expected to be profitable. Incentive theory is promoted by behavioral psychologists, such as B.F. Skinner. Incentive theory is especially supported by Skinner in his philosophy of Radical behaviorism, meaning that a person's actions always have social ramifications: and if actions are positively received people are more likely to act in this manner, or if negatively received people are less likely to act in this manner.\n\nIncentive theory distinguishes itself from other motivation theories, such as drive theory, in the direction of the motivation. In incentive theory, stimuli \"attract\" a person towards them, and push them towards the stimulus. In terms of behaviorism, incentive theory involves positive reinforcement: the reinforcing stimulus has been conditioned to make the person happier. As opposed to in drive theory, which involves negative reinforcement: a stimulus has been associated with the removal of the punishment—the lack of homeostasis in the body. For example, a person has come to know that if they eat when hungry, it will eliminate that negative feeling of hunger, or if they drink when thirsty, it will eliminate that negative feeling of thirst.\n\nMotivating operations, MOs, relate to the field of motivation in that they help improve understanding aspects of behavior that are not covered by operant conditioning. In operant conditioning, the function of the reinforcer is to influence \"future behavior\". The presence of a stimulus believed to function as a reinforcer does not according to this terminology explain the current behavior of an organism – only previous instances of reinforcement of that behavior (in the same or similar situations) do. Through the behavior-altering effect of MOs, it is possible to affect current behavior of an individual, giving another piece of the puzzle of motivation.\n\nMotivating operations are factors that affect learned behavior in a certain context. MOs have two effects: a value-altering effect, which increases or decreases the efficiency of a reinforcer, and a behavior-altering effect, which modifies learned behavior that has previously been punished or reinforced by a particular stimulus.\n\nWhen a motivating operation causes an increase in the effectiveness of a reinforcer, or amplifies a learned behavior in some way (such as increasing frequency, intensity, duration or speed of the behavior), it functions as an establishing operation, EO. A common example of this would be food deprivation, which functions as an EO in relation to food: the food-deprived organism will perform behaviors previously related to the acquisition of food more intensely, frequently, longer, or faster in the presence of food, and those behaviors would be especially strongly reinforced. For instance, a fast-food worker earning minimal wage, forced to work more than one job to make ends meet, would be highly motivated by a pay raise, because of the current deprivation of money (a conditioned establishing operation). The worker would work hard to try to achieve the raise, and getting the raise would function as an especially strong reinforcer of work behavior.\n\nConversely, a motivating operation that causes a decrease in the effectiveness of a reinforcer, or diminishes a learned behavior related to the reinforcer, functions as an abolishing operation, AO. Again using the example of food, satiation of food prior to the presentation of a food stimulus would produce a decrease on food-related behaviors, and diminish or completely abolish the reinforcing effect of acquiring and ingesting the food. Consider the board of a large investment bank, concerned with a too small profit margin, deciding to give the CEO a new incentive package in order to motivate him to increase firm profits. If the CEO already has a lot of money, the incentive package might not be a very good way to motivate him, because he would be satiated on money. Getting even more money wouldn't be a strong reinforcer for profit-increasing behavior, and wouldn't elicit increased intensity, frequency or duration of profit-increasing behavior.\n\nMotivation lies at the core of many behaviorist approaches to psychological treatment. A person with autism-spectrum disorder is seen as lacking motivation to perform socially relevant behaviors – social stimuli are not as reinforcing for people with autism compared to other people. Depression is understood as a lack of reinforcement (especially positive reinforcement) leading to extinction of behavior in the depressed individual. A patient with specific phobia is not motivated to seek out the phobic stimulus because it acts as a punisher, and is over-motivated to avoid it (negative reinforcement). In accordance, therapies have been designed to address these problems, such as EIBI and CBT for major depression and specific phobia.\n\nSociocultural theory (see Cultural-historical psychology) (also known as Social Motivation) emphasizes impact of activity and actions mediated through social interaction, and within social contexts. Sociocultural theory represents a shift from traditional theories of motivation, which view the individual's innate drives or mechanistic operand learning as primary determinants of motivation. Critical elements to socio-cultural theory applied to motivation include, but are not limited to, the role of social interactions and the contributions from culturally-based knowledge and practice. Sociocultural theory extends the social aspects of Cognitive Evaluation Theory, which espouses the important role of positive feedback from others during action, but requires the individual as the internal locus of causality. Sociocultural theory predicts that motivation has an external locus of causality, and is socially distributed among the social group. \n\nMotivation can develop through an individuals involvement within their cultural group. Personal motivation often comes from activities a person believes to be central to the everyday occurrences in their community. An example of socio-cultural theory would be social settings where people work together to solve collective problems. Although individuals will have internalized goals, they will also develop internalized goals of others, as well as new interests and goals collectively with those that they feel socially connected to. Oftentimes, it is believed that all cultural groups are motivated in the same way. However, motivation can come from different child-rearing practices and cultural behaviors that greatly vary between cultural groups. \n\nIn some indigenous cultures, collaboration between children and adults in community and household tasks is seen as very important A child from an indigenous community may spend a great deal of their time alongside family and community members doing different tasks and chores that benefit the community. After having seen the benefits of collaboration and work, and also having the opportunity to be included, the child will be intrinsically motivated to participate in similar tasks. In this example, because the adults in the community do not impose the tasks upon the children, the children therefore feel self-motivated and a desire to participate and learn through the task. As a result of the community values that surround the child, their source of motivation may vary from a different community with different values. \n\nIn more Westernized communities, where segregation between adults and children participating in work related task is a common practice. As a result of this, these adolescents demonstrate less internalized motivation to do things within their environment than their parents. However, when the motivation to participate in activities is a prominent belief within the family, the adolescents autonomy is significantly higher. This therefore demonstrating that when collaboration and non-segregative tasks are norms within a child's upbringing, their internal motivation to participate in community tasks increases. When given opportunities to work collaboratively with adults on shared tasks during childhood, children will therefore become more intrinsically motivated through adulthood. \n\nSocial motivation is tied to one's activity in a group. It cannot form from a single mind alone. For example, bowling alone is naught but the dull act of throwing a ball into pins, and so people are much less likely to smile during the activity alone, even upon getting a strike because their satisfaction or dissatisfaction does not need to be communicated, and so it is internalized. However, when with a group, people are more inclined to smile regardless of their results because it acts as a positive communication that is beneficial for pleasurable interaction and teamwork. Thus the act of bowling becomes a social activity as opposed to a dull action because it becomes an exercise in interaction, competition, team building, and sportsmanship. It is because of this phenomenon that studies have shown that people are more intrigued in performing mundane activities so long as there is company because it provides the opportunity to interact in one way or another, be it for bonding, amusement, collaboration, or alternative perspectives. Examples of activities that may one may not be motivated to do alone but could be done with others for social benefit are things such as throwing and catching a baseball with a friend, making funny faces with children, building a treehouse, and performing a debate.\n\nPush motivations are those where people push themselves towards their goals or to achieve something, such as the desire for escape, rest and relaxation, prestige, health and fitness, adventure, and social interaction.\n\nHowever, with push motivation it's also easy to get discouraged when there are obstacles present in the path of achievement. Push motivation acts as a willpower and people's willpower is only as strong as the desire behind the willpower.\n\nAdditionally, a study has been conducted on social networking and its push and pull effects. One thing that is mentioned is \"Regret and dissatisfaction correspond to push factors because regret and dissatisfaction are the negative factors that compel users to leave their current service provider.\" So from reading this, we now know that Push motivations can also be a negative force. In this case, that negative force is regret and dissatisfaction.\n\nPull motivation is the opposite of push. It is a type of motivation that is much stronger. \"Some of the factors are those that emerge as a result of the attractiveness of a destination as it is perceived by those with the propensity to travel. They include both tangible resources, such as beaches, recreation facilities, and cultural attractions, and traveler's perceptions and expectation, such as novelty, benefit expectation, and marketing image.\" Pull motivation can be seen as the desire to achieve a goal so badly that it seems that the goal is pulling us toward it. That is why pull motivation is stronger than push motivation. It is easier to be drawn to something rather than to push yourself for something you desire. \nIt can also be an alternative force when compared to negative force. From the same study as previously mentioned, \"Regret and dissatisfaction with an existing SNS service provider may trigger a heightened interest toward switching service providers, but such a motive will likely translate into reality in the presence of a good alternative. Therefore, alternative attractiveness can moderate the effects of regret and dissatisfaction with switching intention\" And so, pull motivation can be an attracting desire when negative influences come into the picture.\n\nThe self-control aspect of motivation is increasingly considered to be a subset of emotional intelligence; it is suggested that although a person may be classed as highly intelligent (as measured by many traditional intelligence tests), they may remain unmotivated to pursue intellectual endeavours. Vroom's \"expectancy theory\" provides an account of when people may decide to exert self-control in pursuit of a particular goal.\n\nA drive or desire can be described as a deficiency or need that activates behavior that is aimed at a goal or an incentive.<ref name=\"Drive/Desire\"></ref> These drives are thought to originate within the individual and may not require external stimuli to encourage the behavior. Basic drives could be sparked by deficiencies such as hunger, which motivates a person to seek food whereas more subtle drives might be the desire for praise and approval, which motivates a person to behave in a manner pleasing to others.\n\nAnother basic drive is the sexual drive which like food motivates us because it is essential to our survival. The desire for sex is wired deep into the brain of all human beings as glands secrete hormones that travel through the blood to the brain and stimulates the onset of sexual desire. The hormone involved in the initial onset of sexual desire is called Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). The hormonal basis of both men and women's sex drives is testosterone. Men naturally have more testosterone than women do and so are more likely than women to think about sex.\n\nDrive theory grows out of the concept that people have certain biological drives, such as hunger and thirst. As time passes the strength of the drive increases if it is not satisfied (in this case by eating). Upon satisfying a drive the drive's strength is reduced. Created by Clark Hull and further developed by Kenneth Spence, the theory became well known in the 1940s and 1950s. Many of the motivational theories that arose during the 1950s and 1960s were either based on Hull's original theory or were focused on providing alternatives to the drive-reduction theory, including Abraham Maslow's hierarchy of needs, which emerged as an alternative to Hull's approach.\n\nDrive theory has some intuitive or folk validity. For instance when preparing food, the drive model appears to be compatible with sensations of rising hunger as the food is prepared, and, after the food has been consumed, a decrease in subjective hunger. There are several problems, however, that leave the validity of drive reduction open for debate.\n\nSuggested by Leon Festinger, cognitive dissonance occurs when an individual experiences some degree of discomfort resulting from an inconsistency between two cognitions: their views on the world around them, and their own personal feelings and actions. For example, a consumer may seek to reassure themselves regarding a purchase, feeling that another decision may have been preferable. Their feeling that another purchase would have been preferable is inconsistent with their action of purchasing the item. The difference between their feelings and beliefs causes dissonance, so they seek to reassure themselves.\n\nWhile not a theory of motivation, per se, the theory of cognitive dissonance proposes that people have a motivational drive to reduce dissonance. The cognitive miser perspective makes people want to justify things in a simple way in order to reduce the effort they put into cognition. They do this by changing their attitudes, beliefs, or actions, rather than facing the inconsistencies, because dissonance is a mental strain. Dissonance is also reduced by justifying, blaming, and denying. It is one of the most influential and extensively studied theories in social psychology.\n\nThe content theory was one of the earliest theories of motivation. Content theories can also be referred to needs theories, because the theory focuses on the importance of what motivates people (needs). In other words, they try to identify what are the \"needs\" and how they relate to motivation to fulfill those needs. Another definition could be defined by Pritchard and Ashwood, is the process used to allocate energy to maximize the satisfaction of needs.\n\nContent theory of human motivation includes both Abraham Maslow's hierarchy of needs and Herzberg's two-factor theory. Maslow's theory is one of the most widely discussed theories of motivation. Abraham Maslow believed that man is inherently good and argued that individuals possess a constantly growing inner drive that has great potential. The needs hierarchy system, devised by Maslow (1954), is a commonly used scheme for classifying human motives.\n\nThe American motivation psychologist Abraham H. Maslow developed the hierarchy of needs consisting of five hierarchic classes. According to Maslow, people are motivated by unsatisfied needs. \nThe needs, listed from basic (lowest-earliest) to most complex (highest-latest) are as follows:\nThe basic requirements build upon the first step in the pyramid: physiology. If there are deficits on this level, all behavior will be oriented to satisfy this deficit. Essentially, if you have not slept or eaten adequately, you won't be interested in your self-esteem desires. Subsequently, we have the second level, which awakens a need for security. After securing those two levels, the motives shift to the social sphere, the third level. Psychological requirements comprise the fourth level, while the top of the hierarchy consists of self-realization and self-actualization.\n\nMaslow's hierarchy of needs theory can be summarized as follows:\n\nOne of the first influential figures to discuss the topic of Hedonism was Socrates, and he did so around 470- 399 BC in ancient Greece. Hedonism, as Socrates described it, is the motivation wherein a person will behave in a manner that will maximize pleasure and minimize pain. The only instance in which a person will behave in a manner that results in more pain than pleasure is when the knowledge of the effects of the behavior is lacking. Sex is one of the pleasures people pursue. \nSex is on the first level of Maslow's Hierarchy of needs. It is a necessary physiological need, like air, warmth, or sleep, and if the body lacks it will not function optimally. Without the orgasm that comes with sex, a person will experience “pain,” and as Hedonism would predict, a person will minimize this pain by pursuing sex. That being said, sex as a basic need is different from the need for sexual intimacy, which is located on the third level in Maslow's Hierarchy. \nThere are multiple theories for why sex is a strong motivation, and many fall under the Theory of Evolution. On an evolutionary level, the motivation for sex likely has to do with a species’ ability to reproduce. Species that reproduce more, survive and pass on their genes. Therefore, species have sexual desire that leads to sexual intercourse as a means to create more offspring. Without this innate motivation, a species may determine that attaining intercourse is too costly in terms of effort, energy, and danger. \nIn addition to sexual desire, the motivation for romantic love runs parallel in having an evolutionary function for the survival of a species. On an emotional level, romantic love satiates a psychological need for belonging. Therefore, this is another hedonistic pursuit of pleasure. From the evolutionary perspective, romantic love creates bonds with the parents of offspring. This bond will make it so that the parents will stay together and take care and protect the offspring until it is independent. By rearing the child together, it increases the chances that the offspring will survive and pass on its genes itself, therefore continuing the survival of the species. Without the romantic love bond, the male will pursue satiation of his sexual desire with as many mates as possible, leaving behind the female to rear the offspring by herself. Child rearing with one parent is more difficult and provides less assurance that the offspring survives than with two parents. Romantic love therefore solves the commitment problem of parents needing to be together; individuals that are loyal and faithful to on another will have mutual survival benefits.\nAdditionally, under the umbrella of evolution, is Darwin's term sexual selection. This refers to how the female selects the male for reproduction. The male is motivated to attain sex because of all the aforementioned reasons, but how he attains it can vary based on his qualities. For some females, they are motivated by the will to survive mostly, and will prefer a mate that can physically defend her, or financially provide for her (among humans). Some females are more attracted to charm, as it is an indicator of being a good loyal lover that will in turn make for a dependable child rearing partner. Altogether, sex is a hedonistic pleasure seeking behavior that satiates physical and psychological needs and is instinctively guided by principles of evolution. \n\nFrederick Herzberg's two-factor theory concludes that certain factors in the workplace result in job satisfaction, but if absent, they don't lead to dissatisfaction but no satisfaction. The factors that motivate people can change over their lifetime, but \"respect for me as a person\" is one of the top motivating factors at any stage of life.\n\nHe distinguished between:\n\nHerzberg concluded that job satisfaction and dissatisfaction were the products of two separate factors: motivating factors (satisfiers) and hygiene factors (dissatisfiers).\n\nSome motivating factors (satisfiers) were: Achievement, recognition, work itself, responsibility, advancement, and growth.\n\nSome hygiene factors (dissatisfiers) were: company policy, supervision, working conditions, interpersonal relations, salary, status, job security, and personal life.\n\nThe name hygiene factors is used because, like hygiene, the presence will not improve health, but absence can cause health deterioration.\n\nHerzberg's theory has found application in such occupational fields as information systems and in studies of user satisfaction such as computer user satisfaction.\n\nAlderfer, expanding on Maslow's hierarchy of needs, created the \"ERG theory\". This theory posits that there are three groups of core needs — existence, relatedness, and growth, hence the label: ERG theory. The existence group is concerned with providing our basic material existence requirements. They include the items that Maslow considered to be physiological and safety needs. The second group of needs are those of relatedness- the desire we have for maintaining important personal relationships. These social and status desires require interaction with others if they are to be satisfied, and they align with Maslow's social need and the external component of Maslow's esteem classification. Finally, Alderfer isolates growth needs as an intrinsic desire for personal development. Maslow's categories are broken down into many different parts and there are a lot of needs. The ERG categories are more broad and covers more than just certain areas. As a person grows, the existence, relatedness, and growth for all desires continue to grow. All these needs should be fulfilled to greater wholeness as a human being. These include the intrinsic component from Maslow's esteem category and the characteristics included under self-actualization.\n\nSince the early 1970s Edward L. Deci and Richard M. Ryan have conducted research that eventually led to the proposition of the self-determination theory (SDT). This theory focuses on the degree to which an individual's behaviour is self-motivated and self-determined. SDT identifies three innate needs that, if satisfied, allow optimal function and growth: competence, relatedness, and autonomy.\n\nThese three psychological needs motivate the self to initiate specific behaviour and mental nutriments that are essential for psychological health and well-being. When these needs are satisfied, there are positive consequences, such as well-being and growth, leading people to be motivated, productive and happy. When they are thwarted, people's motivation, productivity and happiness plummet.\n\nThere are three essential elements to the theory:\n\nA recent approach in developing a broad, integrative theory of motivation is temporal motivation theory. Introduced in a 2006 \"Academy of Management Review\" article, it synthesizes into a single formulation the primary aspects of several other major motivational theories, including Incentive Theory, Drive Theory, Need Theory, Self-Efficacy and Goal Setting. It simplifies the field of motivation and allows findings from one theory to be translated into terms of another. Another journal article that helped to develop the Temporal Motivation Theory, \"The Nature of Procrastination, \" received American Psychological Association's George A. Miller award for outstanding contribution to general science.\n\nwhere Motivation is the desire for a particular outcome, Expectancy or self-efficacy is the probability of success, Value is the reward associated with the outcome, Impulsiveness is the individual's sensitivity to delay and Delay is the time to realization.\n\nAchievement motivation is an integrative perspective based on the premise that performance motivation results from the way broad components of personality are directed towards performance. As a result, it includes a range of dimensions that are relevant to success at work but which are not conventionally regarded as being part of performance motivation. The emphasis on performance seeks to integrate formerly separate approaches as need for achievement with, for example, social motives like dominance. Personality is intimately tied to performance and achievement motivation, including such characteristics as tolerance for risk, fear of failure, and others.\n\nAchievement motivation can be measured by The Achievement Motivation Inventory, which is based on this theory and assesses three factors (in 17 separated scales) relevant to vocational and professional success. This motivation has repeatedly been linked with adaptive motivational patterns, including working hard, a willingness to pick learning tasks with much difficulty, and attributing success to effort.\n\nAchievement motivation was studied intensively by David C. McClelland, John W. Atkinson and their colleagues since the early 1950s. This type of motivation is a drive that is developed from an emotional state. One may feel the drive to achieve by striving for success and avoiding failure. In achievement motivation, one would hope that they excel in what they do and not think much about the failures or the negatives. Their research showed that business managers who were successful demonstrated a high need to achieve no matter the culture. There are three major characteristics of people who have a great need to achieve according to McClelland's research.\n\nCognitive theories define motivation in terms of how people think about situations. Cognitive theories of motivation include goal-setting theory and expectancy theory.\n\nGoal-setting theory is based on the notion that individuals sometimes have a drive to reach a clearly defined end state. Often, this end state is a reward in itself. A goal's efficiency is affected by three features: proximity, difficulty and specificity. One common goal setting methodology incorporates the SMART criteria, in which goals are: specific, measurable, attainable/achievable, relevant, and time-bound. Time management is an important aspect to consider, when regarding time as a factor contributing to goal achievement. Having too much time allows area for distraction and procrastination, which simultaneously distracts the subject by steering his or her attention away from the original goal. An ideal goal should present a situation where the time between the initiation of behavior and the end state is close. With an overly restricting time restraint, the subject could potentially feel overwhelmed, which could deter the subject from achieving the goal because the amount of time provided is not sufficient or rational. This explains why some children are more motivated to learn how to ride a bike than to master algebra. A goal should be moderate, not too hard or too easy to complete.\n\nMost people are not optimally motivated, as many want a challenge (which assumes some kind of insecurity of success). At the same time people want to feel that there is a substantial probability that they will succeed. Specificity concerns the description of the goal in their class. The goal should be objectively defined and intelligible for the individual. Similarly to Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs, a larger end goal is easier to achieve if the subject has smaller, more attainable yet still challenging goals to achieve first in order to advance over a period of time. A classic example of a poorly specified goal is trying to motivate oneself to run a marathon when s/he has not had proper training. A smaller, more attainable goal is to first motivate oneself to take the stairs instead of an elevator or to replace a stagnant activity, like watching television, with a mobile one, like spending time walking and eventually working up to a jog. Note: all goals are subject to the individual's skills and abilities.\n\nto voluntarily postpone or delay an intended course of action despite anticipating that you will be worse off because of that delay. \n\nProcrastination can be seen as a defense mechanism. When something is put off or will be done at a later time it can be seen as one is protecting one's self from failure. It is creating an excuse for why one didn’t do well on something Take for example a term paper, it is overwhelming, and one is not sure that it can be completed correctly. If one puts it off until the last minute, then one can say that they did not do a good job on it because they didn’t have enough time. Procrastination can be seen as creating a buffer or an excuse to cover up inadequacies. \n\nExpectancy theory was proposed by Victor H. Vroom in 1964. Expectancy theory explains the behavior process in which an individual selects a behavior option over another, and why/how this decision is made in relation to their goal.\n\nThere's also an equation for this theory which goes as follows: \n\nSocial-cognitive models of behavior change include the constructs of motivation and volition. Motivation is seen as a process that leads to the forming of behavioral intentions. Volition is seen as a process that leads from intention to actual behavior. In other words, motivation and volition refer to goal setting and goal pursuit, respectively. Both processes require self-regulatory efforts. Several self-regulatory constructs are needed to operate in orchestration to attain goals. An example of such a motivational and volitional construct is perceived self-efficacy. Self-efficacy is supposed to facilitate the forming of behavioral intentions, the development of action plans, and the initiation of action. It can support the translation of intentions into action.\n\nJohn W. Atkinson, David Birch and their colleagues developed the theory of \"Dynamics of Action\" to mathematically model change in behavior as a consequence of the interaction of motivation and associated tendencies toward specific actions. The theory posits that change in behavior occurs when the tendency for a new, unexpressed behavior becomes dominant over the tendency currently motivating action. In the theory, the strength of tendencies rises and falls as a consequence of internal and external stimuli (sources of instigation), inhibitory factors, and consummatory in factors such as performing an action. In this theory, there are three causes responsible for behavior and change in behavior:\n\nPsychologists David C. McClelland and John W. Atkinson argued that motivation should be unconscious. They refined measures of motivation by means of content analysis of imaginative thought using, for example, the Thematic Apperception Test.'\n\nStarting from studies involving more than 6,000 people, Professor Steven Reiss has proposed a theory that found 16 basic desires that guide nearly all human behavior. Intrinsic motivation is the tendency to find challenges, to push to find out for more, explore, and learn as much as possible. It is about reaching the most possible potential as a human being. The 16 basic desires that motivate our actions and define our personalities are:\n\nAttribution theory is a theory developed by psychologist, Fritz Heider that describes the processes by which individuals explain the causes of their behavior and events. A form of attribution theory developed by psychologist, Bernard Weiner describes an individual's beliefs about how the causes of success or failure affect their emotions and motivations. Bernard Weiner's theory can be defined into two perspectives: intrapersonal or interpersonal. The intrapersonal perspective includes self-directed thoughts and emotions that are attributed to the self. The interpersonal perspective includes beliefs about the responsibility of others and other directed affects of emotions; the individual would place the blame on another individual.\n\nIndividuals formulate explanatory attributions to understand the events they experience and to seek reasons for their failures. When individuals seek positive feedback from their failures, they use the feedback as motivation to show improved performances. For example, using the intrapersonal perspective, a student who failed a test may attribute their failure for not studying enough and would use their emotion of shame or embarrassment as motivation to study harder for the next test. A student who blames their test failure on the teacher would be using the interpersonal perspective, and would use their feeling of disappointment as motivation to rely on a different study source other than the teacher for the next test.\n\nApproach motivation (i.e., incentive salience) can be defined as when a certain behavior or reaction to a situation/environment is rewarded or results in a positive or desirable outcome. In contrast, avoidance motivation (i.e., aversive salience) can be defined as when a certain behavior or reaction to a situation/environment is punished or results in a negative or undesirable outcome. Research suggests that, all else being equal, avoidance motivations tend to be more powerful than approach motivations. Because people expect losses to have more powerful emotional consequences than equal-size gains, they will take more risks to avoid a loss than to achieve a gain.\n\nConditioned taste aversion.\n\n“A strong dislike (nausea reaction) for food because of prior Association with of that food with nausea or upset stomach.” \n\nConditioned taste aversion is the only type of conditioning that only needs one exposure. It does not need to be the specific food or drinks that cause the taste. Conditioned taste aversion can also be attributed to extenuating circumstances. An example of this can be eating a rotten apple. Eating the apple then immediately throwing up. Now it is hard to even near an apple without feeling sick. Conditioned taste aversion can also come about by the mere associations of two stimuli. Eating a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, but also have the flu. Eating the sandwich makes one feel nauseous, so one throws up, now one cannot smell peanut butter without feeling queasy. Though eating the sandwich does not cause one to through up, they are still linked.\n\nIn his book \"A General Introduction to Psychoanalysis\", Sigmund Freud explained his theory on the conscious-unconscious distinction. To explain this relationship, he used a two-room metaphor. The smaller of the two rooms is filled with a person's preconscious, which is the thoughts, emotions, and memories that are available to a person's consciousness. This room also houses a person's consciousness, which is the part of the preconscious that is the focus at that given time. Connected to the small room is a much larger room that houses a person's unconscious. This part of the mind is unavailable to a person's consciousness and consists of impulses and repressed thoughts. The door between these two rooms acts as the person's mental censor. It's job is to keep anxiety inducing thoughts and socially unacceptable behaviors or desires out of the preconscious. Freud describes the event of a thought or impulse being denied at the door as repression, one of the many defense mechanisms. This process is supposed to protect the individual from any embarrassment that could come from acting on these impulses or thoughts that exist in the unconscious.\n\nIn terms of motivation, Freud argues that unconscious instinctual impulses can still have great influence on behavior even though the person is not aware of the source. When these instincts serve as a motive, the person is only aware of the goal of the motive, and not its actual source. He divides these instincts into sexual instincts, death instincts, and ego or self-preservation instincts. Sexual instincts are those that motivate humans to stay alive and ensure the continuation of the mankind. On the other hand, Freud also maintains that humans have an inherent drive for self-destruction, or the death instinct. Similar to the devil and angel that everyone has on there should, the sexual instinct and death instinct are constantly battling each other to both be satisfied. The death instinct can be closely related to Freud's other concept, the id, which is our need to experience pleasure immediately, regardless of the consequences. The last type of instinct that contributes to motivation is the ego or self-preservation instinct. This instinct is geared towards assuring that a person feels validated in whatever behavior or thought they have. The mental censor, or door between the unconscious and preconscious, helps satisfy this instinct. For example, one may be sexually attracted to a person, due to their sexual instinct, but the self-preservation instinct prevents them to act on this urge until that person finds that it is socially acceptable to do so. Quite similarly to his psychic theory that deals with the id, ego, and superego, Freud's theory of instincts highlights the interdependence of these three instincts. All three instincts serve as a checks and balances system to control what instincts are acted on and what behaviors are used to satisfy as many of them at once.\n\nPriming in the context of Motivation\n\nPriming is a phenomenon, often used as an experimental technique, whereby a specific stimulus sensitizes the subject to later presentation of a similar stimulus. \n\n“Priming refers to an increased sensitivity to certain stimuli, resulting from prior exposure to related visual or audio messages. When an individual is exposed to the word “cancer,” for example, and then offered the choice to smoke a cigarette, we expect that there is a greater probability that they will choose not to smoke as a result of the earlier exposure.”\n\nPriming can affect motivation, in the way that we can be motived to do things by an outside source. \n\nPriming can be linked with the mere exposer theory. People tend to like thing that they have exposed to before. Mere exposer theory is used by advertising companies to get people to buy their products. An example of this is seeing a picture of the product on a sign and then buying that product later. If an individual is in a room with two strangers they are more likely to gravitate towards the person that they occasionally pass on the street, then the person that they have never seen before. An example of the use of mere exposure theory can be seen in product placements in movies and TV shows. We see a product that our is in our favorite movie, and we are more inclined to buy that product when we see it again.\n\nPriming can fit into these categories; Semantic Priming, Visual Priming, Response Priming, Perceptual and Conceptual Priming, Positive and Negative Priming, Associative and Context Priming, and Olfactory Priming. Visual and Semantic priming is the most used in motivation. Most priming is linked with emotion, the stronger the emotion, the stronger the connection between memory and the stimuli.\n\nPriming also has an effect on drug users. In this case, it can be defined at, the reinstatement or increase in drug craving by a small dose of the drug or by stimuli associated with the drug. If a former drug user is in a place where they formerly did drugs, then they are tempted to do that same thing again even if they have been clean for years.\n\nThe control of motivation is only understood to a limited extent. There are many different approaches of \"motivation training\", but many of these are considered pseudoscientific by critics. To understand how to control motivation it is first necessary to understand why many people lack motivation.\n\nNatural theories of motivation such as Theory Y argue that individuals are naturally willing to work and prefer jobs with high responsibility, creativity and ingenuity. Holistically, the implementation in the workplace based on natural theories of motivation requires creating a comfortable and open work environment because it is through this climate that the individuals’ goals are most likely to be aligned with the organization's goals.\nBased on the assumptions of natural theorists, individuals are motivated to work for an organization when they feel fulfillment from the work and organization. Therefore, hiring should focus on matching the goals of the individual with the goals of the organization rather than solely on the candidate's proficiency at completing a task, as rational theorists would argue. Logistically, there are several ways that firms can implement the assumptions of natural theories of motivation, including delegation of responsibilities, participation in management by employees, job enlargement, and membership within the firm.\n\nMcGregor's Theory Y makes the assumption that the average person not only accepts, but also seeks out responsibility. Thus, as a firm gives individuals’ greater responsibilities, they will feel a greater sense of satisfaction and, subsequently, more commitment to the organization. Additionally, Malone argues that the delegation of responsibility encourages motivation because employees have creative control over their work and increases productivity as many people can work collaboratively to solve a problem rather than just one manager tackling it alone.\n\nParticipative management styles involve consulting employees through the decision making process. Markowitz argues that this boosts employees’ morale and commitment to the organization, subsequently increasing productivity. Furthermore, Denison provides empirical evidence demonstrating that employee participation is correlated with better organizational performance. It is important to note that this stands in contract to Graham's rationalist view that kaizen, a participative management style used in Japan, does not engage employees’ minds in the decision making process. Graham, however, only examines one specific and flawed participative management style that only allows limited input from employees. With a properly implemented process that actively engages employees, participative management will create a welcoming and productive environment.\n\nJob enlargement refers to increasing the responsibilities of a job by adding to the scope of the tasks. This provides more variety and prevents a job from getting boring. Additionally, this prevents the problem of alienation brought on by the rational theorists of Fordism. In assembly lines, the employee feels disconnected from the final product because he or she only performs one task repeatedly. Job enlargement instead keeps employees engaged in the organization and creates a more welcoming environment. It stems on the assumption that employees enjoy doing work and, therefore, are more satisfied when they have a wider range of work to do.\n\nAs Mayo details, based on observations of the Hawthorn Western Electric Company, an additional facet of motivation stems from creating a culture of teams and membership within the firm. For employees, a large part of job satisfaction is feeling as though one is a member of a larger team. For example, Mayo writes about a young girl worker who refused a transfer to a higher paid position in order to stay with a group that she felt a connection to. This example demonstrates that workers are not necessarily rational and only working for higher monetary compensation; instead, the social aspects of a firm can provide incentives to work. It is important, therefore, to create an inclusive environment that welcomes each worker or employee as a member of that organization.\n\n“If one wishes to create a highly valid theory, which is also constructed with the purpose of enhanced usefulness in practice in mind, it would be best to look to motivation theories ... for an appropriate model” (Miner, 2003, p. 29). \n\nThe Job characteristics Model (JCM), as designed by Hackman and Oldham attempts to use job design to improve employee motivation. They show that any job can be described in terms of five key job characteristics:\n\nThe JCM links the core job dimensions listed above to critical psychological states which results in desired personal and work outcomes. This forms the basis of this 'employee growth-need strength.\" The core dimensions listed above can be combined into a single predictive index, called the \"motivating potential score\".\n\nThe motivating potential score (MPS) can be calculated, using the core dimensions discussed above, as follows:\n\nJobs high in motivating potential must be high on both Autonomy and Feedback, and also must be high on at least one of the three factors that lead to experienced meaningfulness. If a job has a high MPS, the job characteristics model predicts motivation, performance and job satisfaction will be positively affected and the likelihood of negative outcomes, such as absenteeism and turnover, will be reduced.\n\nEmployee recognition is not only about gifts and points. It's about changing the corporate culture in order to meet goals and initiatives and most importantly to connect employees to the company's core values and beliefs. Strategic employee recognition is seen as the most important program not only to improve employee retention and motivation but also to positively influence the financial situation. The difference between the traditional approach (gifts and points) and strategic recognition is the ability to serve as a serious business influencer that can advance a company's strategic objectives in a measurable way. \"The vast majority of companies want to be innovative, coming up with new products, business models and better ways of doing things. However, innovation is not so easy to achieve. A CEO cannot just order it, and so it will be. You have to carefully manage an organization so that, over time, innovations will emerge.\"\n\nMotivation is of particular interest to educational psychologists because of the crucial role it plays in student learning. However, the specific kind of motivation that is studied in the specialized setting of education differs qualitatively from the more general forms of motivation studied by psychologists in other fields.\n\nMotivation in education can have several effects on how students learn and how they behave towards subject matter. It can:\n\nBecause students are not always internally motivated, they sometimes need \"situated motivation\", which is found in environmental conditions that the teacher creates.\n\nIf teachers decided to extrinsically reward productive student behaviors, they may find it difficult to extricate themselves from that path. Consequently, student dependency on extrinsic rewards represents one of the greatest detractors from their use in the classroom.\n\nThe majority of new student orientation leaders at colleges and universities recognize that distinctive needs of students should be considered in regard to orientation information provided at the beginning of the higher education experience. Research done by Whyte in 1986 raised the awareness of counselors and educators in this regard. In 2007, the National Orientation Directors Association reprinted Cassandra B. Whyte's research report allowing readers to ascertain improvements made in addressing specific needs of students over a quarter of a century later to help with academic success.\n\nGenerally, motivation is conceptualized as either \"intrinsic\" or \"extrinsic\". Classically, these categories are regarded as distinct. Today, these concepts are less likely to be used as distinct categories, but instead as two ideal types that define a continuum: \n\nCassandra B. Whyte researched and reported about the importance of locus of control and academic achievement. Students tending toward a more internal locus of control are more academically successful, thus encouraging curriculum and activity development with consideration of motivation theories.\n\nAcademic motivation orientation may also be tied with one's ability to detect and process errors. Fisher, Nanayakkara, and Marshall conducted neuroscience research on children's motivation orientation, neurological indicators of error monitoring (the process of detecting an error), and academic achievement. Their research suggests that students with high intrinsic motivation attribute performance to personal control and that their error-monitoring system is more strongly engaged by performance errors. They also found that motivation orientation and academic achievement were related to the strength in which their error-monitoring system was engaged.\n\nMotivation has been found to be an important element in the concept of andragogy (what motivates the adult learner), and in treating Autism Spectrum Disorders, as in pivotal response treatment. \nMotivation has also been found critical in adolescents compliance to health suggestions, since \"commitment requires belief in potentially negative and serious consequences of not acting\".\n\nDoyle and Moeyn have noted that traditional methods tended to use anxiety as negative motivation (e.g. use of bad grades by teachers) as a method of getting students to work. However, they have found that progressive approaches with focus on positive motivation over punishment has produced greater effectiveness with learning, since anxiety interferes with performance of complex tasks.\n\nSymer et al. attempted to better define those in medical training programs who may have a ”surgical personality”. They evaluated a group of eight hundred and one first-year surgical interns to compare motivational traits amongst those who did and did not complete surgical training. There was no difference noted between the 80.5% who completed training when comparing their responses to the 19.5% who did not complete training using the validated Behavior Inhibitory System/Behavior Approach System. They concluded based on this that resident physician motivation is not associated with completion of a surgical training program.\n\nIt may appear that the reason some students are more engaged and perform better in class activities relative to other students is because some are more motivated than others. However, current research suggests that motivation is not concrete or quantifiable; it is “dynamic, context sensitive, and changeable.” Thus, students have the flexibility to, intrinsically, motivate themselves to engage in an activity or learn something new even if they were not intrinsically motivated in the first place . While having this type of flexibility is important, research reveals that a teacher's teaching style and the school environment also play a factor in student motivation.; \nAccording to Sansone and Morgan, when students are already motivated to engage in an activity for their own personal pleasure and then a teacher provides the student with feedback, the type of feedback given can change the way that student views the activity and can even undermine their intrinsic motivation. Maclellan also looked at the relationship between tutors and students and in particular, and the type of feedback the tutor would give to the student. Maclellan's results showed that praise or criticism directed towards the student generated a feeling of “fixed intelligence” while praise and criticism directed towards the effort and strategy used by the student generated a feeling of “malleable intelligence” . In other words, feedback concerning effort and strategy leaves students knowing that there is room for growth. This is important because when students believe their intelligence is “fixed”, their mindset can prevent skill development because students will believe that they only have a “certain amount” of understanding on a particular subject matter and might not even try.Therefore, it's crucial that a teacher is aware of how the feedback they give to their students can both positively and negatively impact the student's engagement and motivation . \n\nIn a correlational study, Katz and Shahar used a series of questionnaires and Likert-style scales and gave them to 100 teachers to see what makes a motivating teacher. Their results indicate that teachers who are intrinsically motivated to teach and believe that students should be taught in an autonomous style are the types of teachers that promote intrinsic motivation in the classroom. Deci, Sheinman, and Nezlek also found that when teachers adapted to an autonomous teaching style, students were positively affected and became more intrinsically motivated to achieve in the classroom. However, while the students were quick to adapt to the new teaching style the impact was short-lived. Thus, teachers are limited in the way they teach because they’ll feel a pressure to act, teach, and provide feedback in a certain way from the school district, administration, and guardians. Furthermore, even if students do have a teacher that promotes an autonomous teaching style, their overall school environment is also a factor because it can be extrinsically motivating. Examples of this would be posters around school promoting pizza parties for highest grade point average or longer recess times for the classroom that brings more canned food donations. \n\nIn conclusion, it is not a matter whether a student is motivated, unmotivated, or more motivated than other students- it's a matter of understanding what motivates students before providing a certain type of feedback. Furthermore, it is also important to note that despite the classroom environment and the teacher's teaching style, the overall school environment plays a role in students’ intrinsic motivation. \n\nFor many indigenous students (such as Native American children), motivation may be derived from social organization; an important factor educators should account for in addition to variations in sociolinguistics and cognition. While poor academic performance among Native American students is often attributed to low levels of motivation, Top-down classroom organization is often found to be ineffective for children of many cultures who depend on a sense of community, purpose, and competence in order to engage. Horizontally structured, community-based learning strategies often provide a more structurally supportive environment for motivating indigenous children, who tend to be driven by \"social/affective emphasis, harmony, holistic perspectives, expressive creativity, and nonverbal communication.\" This drive is also traceable to a cultural tradition of community-wide expectations of participation in the activities and goals of the greater group, rather than individualized aspirations of success or triumph.\n\nAlso, in some indigenous communities, young children can often portray a sense of community-based motivation through their parent-like interactions with siblings. Furthermore, it is commonplace for children to assist and demonstrate for their younger counterparts without being prompted by authority figures. Observation techniques and integration methods are demonstrated in such examples as weaving in Chiapas, Mexico, where it is commonplace for children to learn from \"a more skilled other\" within the community. The child's real responsibility within the Mayan community can be seen in, for example, weaving apprenticeships; often, when the \"more skilled other\" is tasked with multiple obligations, an older child will step in and guide the learner. Sibling guidance is supported from early youth, where learning through play encourages horizontally structured environments through alternative educational models such as \"Intent Community Participation.\" Research also suggests that formal Westernized schooling can actually reshape the traditionally collaborative nature of social life in indigenous communities. This research is supported cross-culturally, with variations in motivation and learning often reported higher between indigenous groups and their national Westernized counterparts than between indigenous groups across international continental divides.\n\nAlso, in some Indigenous communities in the Americas, motivation is a driving force for learning. Children are incorporated and welcomed to participate in daily activities and thus feel motivated to participate due to them seeking a sense of belonging in their families and communities.\n\nChildren's participation is encouraged and their learning is supported by their community and family, furthering their motivation. Children are also trusted to be active contributors. Their active participation allows them to learn and gain skills that are valuable and useful in their communities.\n\nAs children transition from early childhood to middle childhood, their motivation to participate changes. In both the Indigenous communities of Quechua people and Rioja in Peru, children often experience a transition in which they become more included into their family's and community's endeavors. This changes their position and role in their families to more responsible ones and leads to an increase in their eagerness to participate and belong. As children go through this transition, they often develop a sense of identity within their family and community.\n\nThe transition from childhood to adolescence can be seen in the amount of work children partake in as this changes over time. For example, Yucatec Mayan children's play time decreases from childhood to adolescence and as the child gets older, is replaced for time spent working. In childhood the work is initiated by others whereas in adolescence it is self-initiated. The shift in initiation and the change in time spent working versus playing shows the children's motivation to participate in order to learn.\n\nThis transition between childhood and adolescence increases motivation because children gain social responsibility within their families. In some Mexican communities of Indigenous-heritage, the contributions that children make within their community is essential to being social beings, establishes their developing roles, and also helps with developing their relationship with their family and community.\n\nAs children gain more roles and responsibilities within their families, their eagerness to participate also increases. For example, Young Mayan children of San Pedro, Guatemala learn to work in the fields and family run businesses because they are motivated to contribute to their family. Many San Pedro women learned to weave by watching their mothers sew when they were children, sometimes earning their own wool through doing small tasks such as watching young children of busy mothers. Eager to learn and contribute, these young girls helped other members of their community in order to help their mothers with their weaving businesses or through other tasks such as helping carry water while young boys helped with tasks such as carrying firewood alongside their fathers.\n\nChildren's motivation to learn is not solely influenced on their desire to belong but also their eagerness to see their community succeed. Children from Navajo communities were shown to have higher levels of social concern than Anglo American children in their schools. By having high levels of social concern the indigenous children are showing concern for not only their learning but also their peers', which serves as an example of their instilled sense of responsibility for their community. They wish to succeed as a united group rather than just themselves.\n\nIn order to be knowledgeable contributors, children must be aware of their surroundings and community's goals. Children's learning in Indigenous-heritage communities is mainly based upon observing and helping out others in their community. Through this type of participation within their community, they gain purpose and motivation for the activity that they are doing within their community and become active participants because they know they are doing it for their community.\n\nSelf-determination is the ability to make choices and exercise a high degree of control, such as what the student does and how they do it (Deci et al., 1991; Reeve, Hamm, & Nix, 2003; Ryan & Deci, 2002). Self-determination can be supported by providing opportunities for students to be challenged, such as leadership opportunities, providing appropriate feedback and fostering, establishing and maintaining good relationships between teachers and students. These strategies can increase students' interest, competence, creativity and desire to be challenged and ensure that students are intrinsically motivated to study. On the other hand, students who lack self-determination are more likely to feel their success is out of their control. Such students lose motivation to study, which causes a state of \"learned helplessness\". Students who feel helpless readily believe they will fail and therefore cease to try. Over time, a vicious circle of low achievement develops.\n\nPhysical activity is body movement that works your muscles and requires more energy than resting. According to a blog by the American Intercontinental University, college students should make time for exercise to maintain and increase motivation. AIU states that regular exercise has impeccable effects on the brain. With consistent running routines, there are more complex connections between neurons, meaning the brain is able to access its brain cells more flexibly. By performing well physically, motivation will be present in education because of how well the brain is performing. After exercising, the brain can have more desire to obtain knowledge and better retain the information. In addition, exercise can relieve stress. Exercising can ease anxiety and relieve negative effects of stress on the body. Without stress factors, individuals can perform better and more efficiently, since their minds will have a more positive outlook. This positive mood will help keep students motivated and more open and willing to succeed academically. Lastly, exercise increases focus and concentration that could also help students maintain their motivation and focus on their studies. AIU claims that exercise may have improved the students' ability to participate and retain information during the class after they had exercised. Being able to retain information and being willing to participate keeps students motivated and performing well academically.\n\nAt lower levels of Maslow's hierarchy of needs, such as physiological needs, money is a motivator, however it tends to have a motivating effect on staff that lasts only for a short period (in accordance with Herzberg's two-factor model of motivation). At higher levels of the hierarchy, praise, respect, recognition, empowerment and a sense of belonging are far more powerful motivators than money, as both Abraham Maslow's theory of motivation and Douglas McGregor's theory X and theory Y (pertaining to the theory of leadership) demonstrate.\n\nAccording to Maslow, people are motivated by unsatisfied needs. The lower level needs such as Physiological and Safety needs will have to be satisfied before higher level needs are to be addressed. We can relate Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs theory with employee motivation. For example, if a manager is trying to motivate his employees by satisfying their needs; according to Maslow, he should try to satisfy the lower level needs before he tries to satisfy the upper level needs or the employees will not be motivated. Also he has to remember that not everyone will be satisfied by the same needs. A good manager will try to figure out which levels of needs are active for a certain individual or employee.\n\nMaslow has money at the lowest level of the hierarchy and shows other needs are better motivators to staff. McGregor places money in his Theory X category and feels it is a poor motivator. Praise and recognition are placed in the Theory Y category and are considered stronger motivators than money.\n\nThe average workplace is about midway between the extremes of high threat and high opportunity. Motivation by threat is a dead-end strategy, and naturally staff are more attracted to the opportunity side of the motivation curve than the threat side. Motivation is a powerful tool in the work environment that can lead to employees working at their most efficient levels of production.\n\nNonetheless, Steinmetz also discusses three common character types of subordinates: ascendant, indifferent, and ambivalent who all react and interact uniquely, and must be treated, managed, and motivated accordingly. An effective leader must understand how to manage all characters, and more importantly the manager must utilize avenues that allow room for employees to work, grow, and find answers independently.\n\nThe assumptions of Maslow and Herzberg were challenged by a classic study at Vauxhall Motors' UK manufacturing plant. This introduced the concept of orientation to work and distinguished three main orientations: instrumental (where work is a means to an end), bureaucratic (where work is a source of status, security and immediate reward) and solidaristic (which prioritizes group loyalty).\n\nOther theories which expanded and extended those of Maslow and Herzberg included Kurt Lewin's force-field analysis, Edwin A. Locke's goal-setting theory and Victor Vroom's expectancy theory. These tend to stress cultural differences and the fact that individuals tend to be motivated by different factors at different times.\n\nAccording to the system of scientific management developed by Frederick Winslow Taylor, a worker's motivation is solely determined by pay, and therefore management need not consider psychological or social aspects of work. In essence, scientific management bases human motivation wholly on extrinsic rewards and discards the idea of intrinsic rewards.\n\nIn contrast, David McClelland believed that workers could not be motivated by the mere need for money—in fact, extrinsic motivation (e.g., money) could extinguish intrinsic motivation such as achievement motivation, though money could be used as an indicator of success for various motives, e.g., keeping score. In keeping with this view, his consulting firm, McBer & Company, had as its first motto \"To make everyone productive, happy, and free.\" For McClelland, satisfaction lay in aligning a person's life with their fundamental motivations.\n\nElton Mayo found that the social contacts a worker has at the workplace are very important and that boredom and repetitiveness of tasks lead to reduced motivation. Mayo believed that workers could be motivated by acknowledging their social needs and making them feel important. As a result, employees were given freedom to make decisions on the job and greater attention was paid to informal work groups.\n\nMayo named the model the Hawthorne effect. His model has been judged as placing undue reliance on social contacts within work situations for motivating employees.\n\nWilliam Ouchi introduced Theory Z, a hybrid management approach consisting of both Japanese and American philosophies and cultures. Its Japanese segment is much like the clan culture where organizations focus on a standardized structure with heavy emphasis on socialization of its members. All underlying goals are consistent across the organization. Its American segment retains formality and authority amongst members and the organization. Ultimately, Theory Z promotes common structure and commitment to the organization, as well as constant improvement of work efficacy.\n\nIn \"Essentials of Organizational Behavior\", Robbins and Judge examine recognition programs as motivators, and identify five principles that contribute to the success of an employee incentive program:\nModern organizations adopt non-monetary employee motivation methods rather than tying it with tangible rewards. \nThis method makes employees feel they're a part of the organization and their reward is seeing it grow through their efforts.\n\nMotivational models are central to game design, because without motivation, a player will not be interested in progressing further within a game. Several models for gameplay motivations have been proposed, including Richard Bartle's. Jon Radoff has proposed a four-quadrant model of gameplay motivation that includes cooperation, competition, immersion and achievement. The motivational structure of games is central to the gamification trend, which seeks to apply game-based motivation to business applications. In the end, game designers must know the needs and desires of their customers for their companies to flourish.\n\nThere have been various studies on the connection between motivation and games. One particular study was on Taiwanese adolescents and their drive of addiction to games. Two studies by the same people were conducted. The first study revealed that addicted players showed higher intrinsic than extrinsic motivation and more intrinsic motivation than the non-addicted players. It can then be said that addicted players, according to the studies findings, are more internally motivated to play games. They enjoy the reward of playing. There are studies that also show that motivation gives these players more to look for in the future such as long-lasting experience that they may keep later on in life.\n\n"}
{"id": "11393687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11393687", "title": "Noninterference (Buddhism)", "text": "Noninterference (Buddhism)\n\nNoninterference is a Buddhist concept and practice which relates to the idea that all things are impermanent, with a resignation to events beyond human control.\n"}
{"id": "22774540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22774540", "title": "Option type", "text": "Option type\n\nIn programming languages (more so functional programming languages) and type theory, an option type or maybe type is a polymorphic type that represents encapsulation of an optional value; e.g., it is used as the return type of functions which may or may not return a meaningful value when they are applied. It consists of a constructor which either is empty (named \"None\" or \"Nothing\"), or which encapsulates the original data type A (written \"Just\" A or \"Some\" A). Outside of functional programming, these are termed nullable types.\n\nIn different programming languages, the option type has various names and definitions.\n\n\nIn type theory, it may be written as: formula_1.\n\nIn languages having tagged unions, as in most functional programming languages, option types can be expressed as the tagged union of a unit type plus the encapsulated type.\n\nIn the Curry-Howard correspondence, option types are related to the annihilation law for ∨: x∨1=1.\n\nAn option type can also be seen as a collection containing either one or zero elements.\n\nThe option type is a monad under these functions:\nWe may also describe the option monad in terms of functions \"return\", \"fmap\" and \"join\", where the latter two are given by:\n\nThe option monad is an additive monad: it has \"Nothing\" as a zero constructor and the following function as a monadic sum:\n\nThe resulting structure is an idempotent monoid.\n\nScala implements Option as a parameterized type, so a variable can be an Option, accessed as follows:\nTwo main ways to use an Option value exist. The first, not the best, is the pattern matching, as in the first example. The second, the best practice, is the monad method, as in the second example. In this way, a program is safe, as it can generate no exception or error (e.g., by trying to obtain the value of an codice_1 variable that is equal to codice_2). Thus, it essentially works as a type-safe alternative to the null value.\n\nOCaml implements Option as a parameterized variant type. Options are constructed and deconstructed as follows:\n\nRust allows using either pattern matching or optional binding to deconstruct the Option type:\n\nJulia requires explicit deconstruction to access a nullable value:\n\nThere are as many null values as there are types, that is because every type is its own null.\nSo all types are also their own option type.\n\nBasically when use type in a declaration, it can be a value of that type or a null of that type.\n\nTo designate that it must have a defined value assigned to it (not be in the null state), use the \"smiley\" designation.\n\nIt is also possible to designate that it must always be a null using the \"smiley\".\n\n<hr>\n\n\n\n\n\nType \"smileys\" are used more often for method and subroutine signatures than they are for variable declarations.\n\n\nThere are special variations of and called and that check for definedness rather than truthiness.\n\nThese set by default, unlike their boolean cousins.\n\nThere are also variations of , and that test for definedness.\n\n"}
{"id": "24100430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24100430", "title": "Otto Nebel", "text": "Otto Nebel\n\nOtto Nebel (25 December 1892 – 12 September 1973) was a German painter born in Berlin, Germany.\n\nNebel started his professional career 1909 in the field of building engineering. He took acting classes at the Lessingtheater in Berlin until 1914. His acting teachers were the famous Rudolf Blümner and Friedrich Kayssler. He wanted to give his debut at Stadttheater Haben when World War I broke out. Nebel spent the years of war on the German Eastern and Western Fronts. In 1918, during his 14-month war imprisonment in Colsterdale, England, he wrote his expressionistic poem \"Zuginsfeld\" condemning the war. In 1919, he returned to Berlin and became friends with Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Georg Muche, Kurt Schwitters, and their art. He joined the circle around Herwarth Walden and his wife Nell Walden. She initiated his collaboration at the Sturm gallery and the art school Der Sturm. Together with Hilla von Rebay und Rudolf Bauer he founded the artist group \"Der Krater\" in 1923. During this time he also worked for the magazine \"Der Sturm.\" Nebel married Hildegard Heitmeyer, the assistant of Gertrud Grunow, in 1924. He met Hildegard at the Bauhaus in Weimar. They stayed in Weimar until 1925 where they painted, wrote poems and acted. In 1933, when the National Socialists disparaged his work as degenerate art, he left Germany for Switzerland, first in Muntelier, and later in Bern. Nebel had financial problems because he was not allowed to work in Switzerland. Thanks to the effort of Kandinsky, he could regularly sell some of his paintings to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation between 1936 and 1951. The German Federal Republic awarded Nebel the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1965.\n\nThe cutthroat reality he experienced during the First World War as young soldier and army reserve lieutenant influenced his wish to pursue an artistic career. Landmarks for making this decision were the commemorative exhibition for Franz Marc and Nebel's acquaintance with Herwarth Walden, whom he met in 1916 in Berlin. Walden provided an important platform for avant-garde approaches in art, literature, and music with both his Der Sturm gallery and the journal with the same name, and thereby greatly facilitated the breakthrough of expression.\n\nNebel's distressing experiences during the war is the central theme in his literary debut \"Zuginsfeld\" (1920). The 6,000-verse poem picks up the thread of August Stramm's poetry and the ensuing Der Sturm school while, however, exploring new paths. The literary collage depicts the mayhem of war by adopting its typical language. Associatively and playing with words, Nebel produced never-ending word chains using authentic word snippets from military orders, passwords and watchwords, headlines, folk songs, and from the language of the educated in Wilhelmine Germany. The satiric bite of the textual collage is visually manifest in the series of drawings for \"Zuginsfeld\", which he first executed in 1930. With barbed pen Nebel made caricatures in 50 pen-and-ink drawings of the military and other groups in society who, in his eyes, stirred up elation for the war. The grotesque figures are strongly reminiscent of the imagery used by Georg Grosz and Otto Dix.\n\nWar likewise tragically impacted Nebel's work in that almost all of his pictorial oeuvre created prior to 1933 was destroyed in Berlin during the Second World War. Therefore, we know little of his early paintings, drawing, and prints. Nebel was in touch with well-known artists and writers during the disoriented post-war era of inflation. He lived in precarious conditions and, among other jobs, took on commissions in order to survive. (See the cover designed for \"Die Dame\" magazine of 1920.) He sought refuge in the utopia of art as the contrasting program to his dismal plight. In 1920, Nebel joined forces with Rudolf Bauer and Hilla von Rebay and formed the group Der Krater / Das Hochamt der Kunst (\"The crater / The high mass of art\"). The three artists shared the view that painting should be purely non-figurative, zeroing in on artistic experience and emotions. The notion that the revolution of modern art could also lead to a wished-for transformation of society linked them to other avant-garde groups of artists and writers. Even if the group did not stay together long, the ideas it pursued remained fundamental for Nebel's work.\n\nNebel executed them for his poem \"Unfeig\" (1924/1925), which is a pivotal work for his notions about the alphabet. He called the poem a runic fugue. In \"Unfeig\", as in his other runic fugue \"Das Rad der Titanen\" (1926/1957), he used only nine or twelve letters of the alphabet.\n\nThe Runen-Fahnen (\"Runic Flags\") are optical scores that visualize the interplay between individual letters of the alphabet and their various facets. Analogous to the fugue in music, in the runic fugues the vowels and the consonants chosen at the beginning determine the \"theme\", which is continually repeated and transformed by expansion, reduction, and inversion. Nebel's goal in reduction and concentration of linguistic material was to create a contrasting language to hackneyed everyday language and its rational use. He wrote, \"The miseducated people of our times are deaf to words and blind to images. They do not hear what they read. What they write, they cannot see.\" Nebel believed that he regained the directness lying hidden behind the conventions of language in individual words and letters of the alphabet. With format larger than man-size, the Runen-Fahnen intimate that the whole body should participate in reading.\n\nThe Runen-Fahnen are a fourfold visual representation of the original beginning of the text:\n\nRunic Flag 1 displays the wording in a typography invented by Nebel. Runic Flags 2-4, in turn, replace Latin characters with another system of signs and thereby break with habitual perception. The individual letters of the alphabet can no longer be overlooked. Runic Flag 2 records sounds by allocating each one a special form and color affiliated to its specific qualities. Runic Flag 3 takes on the level of characters, which we become aware of as graphic unities and forms by means of alienation. Runic Flag 4 combines both aforementioned aspects. Nebel understood characters or runes as independent linguistic entities whose sound or acoustic and visual dimensions were the key part of an artwork. The runic fugues, however, represent an experimental search for the \"inner sound\" (Kandinsky) of words and letters, their impact on the emotions. Although the fragments of \"Uns, unser, Er sie Es\" (1922) are to be read as preliminary attempts that culminated in the runic fugues, they nevertheless have a very independent and distinct quality. In the original single sheets that were bound together to make the book, Nebel drafted an ABC using painted geometric symbols. On these folios he attempted, at least partly, to find a correspondence between characters and sounds. The artist reworded them later into collages of paper cuttings, making extremely short poems. These works underscore the parity between word and image in his work, between literary and visual forms of expression. His legacy of manuscripts gives insight into the writing process behind the runic fugues and gives a palpable impression of how content is dependent on language.\n\nEven before Nebel \"officially\" gave up using representational visual language he created a number of non-objective works, which often had titles taken from music terminology: \"Animato\", \"Dopio movimento\", \"'ondo con brio gai\" or \"Con Tenerezza\". They were produced during the 1930s, some during his sojourns in Italy. Nebel compared his endeavors with those of an orchestra conductor who \"rehearses\" a score with an orchestra. These works herald his non-objective work.\n\nThis is very much what Wassily Kandinsky had in mind in his trailblazing book \"Concerning the Spiritual in Art\": \"Musical sound acts directly on the soul and finds an echo there because, though to varying extents, music is innate in man.\" With increasing tendencies to abstraction, Kandinsky too referred to music and sought to express emotions - analogous to writing scores - with colors and forms in his \"Compositions, Improvisations, and Impressions\".\n\nNebel untiringly demanded of spectators that they open themselves up to the \"resonating tons\" of the pictures they view. Nebel asserted, \"My painting is poetry, the sister of my linguistic art. Where language ends is where the runic order of symbols begins.\"\n\nAround 1926 to 1928 Nebel was often in the Bavarian village of Kochel, not far from Murnau. He loved to regularly visit Ascona in Switzerland as well. In Kochel he founded a wallpaper factory and met with much adversity and red tape, forcing him very soon to give up the experiment. He produced numerous wallpaper designs at the time, and was able to utilize them repeatedly for his collages at later dates. During his stay in Kochel he often went on hikes in search of motifs in the Bavarian countryside. The artist commented on his colorful drawings from this period in the following words: \"The strangeness of the composition is to be understood humorously. The images are such that belong in children's souls. They may be kept protected under galls on small round tables that can be revolved at will. Then mums can take their darlings for a walk around the countryside of Kochel and tell fairytales. They only have to read the story that Uncle Painter has laid down there.\" Thus are the instructions that Nebel gave to \"read\" his \"colorful and bright compositions\" of this period.\n\nLater in the 1920s he returned periodically to Ascona. There he painted intensely colorful scenes with a southern flair (such as \"Aus Losone\" (\"From Losone\") or \"Ascona-Lido\". The town in the Ticino region had a strongly Italian flair and was a key attraction for many avant-garde artists. Among those he met there was, and they planned to start a painting school together (Cavallo rosso). He was additionally invited to exhibit in Ascona together with the artist's group Der grosse Bär. The group comprised artists such as Marianne von Werefkin and the founder of the group, Walter Helbling.\n\nItaly was an eternal magnet for Nebel. During a three-month stay in 1931, he compiled his \"Farben-Atlas von Italien\" (\"Italian color atlas\"). It was to be the essential basis for many future pictorial compositions. In his explanations on the pages opposite the individual plates, the artist added remarks on the overall ambience of the respective views. The greater the variety of color and the more conspicuous the \"resonance\", the more generously he calculated the geometrical figures and the colored rectangles. He also \"portrayed\" the objects by their color-values and \"sounds\" - whether it was paint on house walls or fishing boats, whether olive or pine groves, mountain ranges or beaches. Ultimately, Nebel compiled a \"psycho-historical\" catalogue by classifying certain colors according to personal optical impressions, and with the resulting scales he laid the basis for his future work.\n\nHow important the color atlas would be for the artist from now on when he was designing or composing pictures can be not only seen in works such as \"Rivoli\", \"Pompejanisches\" (\"Pompeian\"), \"Camogli\", \"Recco\" or \"Arkadisches\" (\"Arcadian\"), but already in the sheets \"Siena\" \"I\" to \"III\". As a former construction expert, he was often greatly taken by architectural aspects. In Siena the earthen colors of the brick buildings dominate. They are interwoven by rhythmic accents - of light and shade, rust-red and olive-green. On the other hand, all sorts of variations blue and gray dominate in the works in which he took the atlas plates of Florence to hand (\"Toscanische Stadt\"/\"Tuscan City\", 1932), the city in which the artist repeatedly took refuge in the future. The works that are related to Florence are especially full of allusions to architectural motifs and colorful flashes, and infused with the city's characteristic bright light. After going into exile, Nebel interpreted both building motifs and landscapes through the lens of the \"Farben-Atlas\" (\"Color Atlas\").\n\nThe artistic freedom he experienced after leaving Germany in 1933 allowed him to increasingly turn away from representational painting. The gallerist Jeanne Bucher played a role in this transformation in his art. Nebel met her in April 1937 in Paris. She had several artists representing the \"new art\" in her program, and among them was Wassily Kandinsky. Thus Nebel had contact to the cosmopolitan group Abstraction-Création (\"Incidents in Light Yellow\", \"Suspended\", \"Happy\", all 1937). In 1938, Nebel first officially used the term \"non-objective\" in his work catalogue, and among such pieces classified in this way is work number \"U2\", \"Animato\". As early as 1936 onwards, he was able to sell works to the newly founded \"Museum of Non-Objective Painting\" in New York, that is, to the institution that is now the Guggenheim Museum. Nebel's connections to this museum were of fundamental importance to him, because from 1933 – in exile in Bern – he was without a work permit. He had especially Kandinsky's recommendation to thank for the Guggenheim's support, as well as the goodwill of his friend from his first years in Berlin, Hilla von Rebay, who was the initiator and administrator of the Guggenheim Foundation. This generous and continuous support continued during the Second World War and lasted until 1951. Today, 36 works of art by Nebel dating from 1936 to 1948 still belong to the Guggenheim Museum collection in New York. Others have been sold in the meantime.\n\nThat Nebel, after the mid-1930s, explored abstract painting more intensively is linked to a present he received from his wife Hilda at Christmas in 1935: an edition of the \"I Ching: Book of Changes\".\n\nThe whole work comprises sixty large-format sheets. In 1962, Nebel travelled by boat to the Near East via Dubrovnik and Mykonos to Istanbul, Sochi, and Bursa. The drawings optically resemble Arabic or Cyrillic characters and, to a great extent, are executed on gray or black \"imperial-quality paper\". Nebel considered them to be visual runic narratives that were closely related to his literary texts.\n\nIn 1929 he executed four portfolio artworks. They were conceived as a crossover between text and image, whereby the image was mostly created first, and the text subsequently captured thoughts and observations on the respective work. The initial outlines in pen or pencil are partially visible under the colored pencil drawing.\n\nIt is only the first series \"Karneval\" (Carnival) that has no text; presumably in this case Nebel did not deem a corresponding text necessary. A masked ball that took place in Berlin on February 9, 1929, was the inspiration for the carnival atmosphere Nebel presents in a kaleidoscope of imagery and movement. In total, the artist opens up 26 windows for spectators, through which they can view brightly colored figures and clowns wearing masks as they drift past. Some of them have an eerie appearance.\n\nWhile on leave from the war in Berlin, Nebel visited the commemorative exhibition at Der Sturm Gallery for Franz Marc, who was killed in the war on March 4, 1916. Thus this pivotal artist came to his notice and was henceforth much admired. In Herwarth Walden he met a patron of the arts who later opened up options for exhibitions and publishing. Waldens's wife at the time, the Swedish artist Nell Walden-Roslund, ran into Nebel again decades later in Bern, and an old friendship was renewed.\n\nIn 1922 Moholy-Nagy exhibited for the first time in der Sturm Gallery. The two artists met again in 1928 in Ascona, where especially Marianne von Werefkin had become close friends with Nebel. Later Nebel corresponded in particular with Lothar Schreyer and Georg Muche. They had become acquainted at Der Sturm gallery, and all three sought to restore the missing metaphysical dimensions of art. Nebel felt rapport with Albert Gleizes too. In 1935, he received a letter from him in which Gleizes confirmed their artistic affinity: \"Nous sommes sur les memes voies, occupies des memes recherches.\"\n\nIn the heyday of Der Sturm, Wassily Kandinsky was seen as someone who revitalized art and was a guiding star for many artists. A large segment of Nebel's work found its way into the Guggenheim Collection in New York through Kandinsky's and Hilla Rebay's support. Kandinsky and Nebel exchanged a wealth of letters and thereby left ample proof of their friendship.\n\nThe artist liked to experiment especially with the linocut, a great favorite among the German Expressionists and a medium that they imbued with new life. After contributing to \"Der Sturm\" journal in the early 1920s he began to work with this printing technique again, in particular in 1936, and produced the 7-series \"Gastgeschenk in Schwarz-Weiss\" (\"Hospitality gift in black-and-white\"), a self-contained series of 210 linocuts - some of them almost miniatures - presenting a fusion of his hitherto art and form vocabulary. The subject matter of his linocuts follows the repertoire of his colored works on paper and sketches as well as paintings, and occasionally they explore paths for developing entirely new genres. Nebel produced linocuts continually alongside his other work. The medium opened up new and diverse avenues of expression. Again and again he returned to this technique and experimented with different kinds of linoleum and various layers of colors. In this way he achieved a multilayer print very similar to the effect he strived for in his other pictures, that is, to achieve an airy spatial effect. He included cuttings from his linocuts in his \"papiers collés\" and \"collages\". In them he also utilized his Kochel wallpapers. Nebel also regularly experimented with \"reverse glass painting\". This form of art he discovered during a stay in Upper Bavaria, where it was very popular for devotional and votive pictures. Late in life he started to explore this technique again and produced spirited and colorful abstract compositions on glass panels.\n\nA reminiscence and summary by Kate T. Steinitz of Artforum Los Angeles:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14153680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14153680", "title": "Phala", "text": "Phala\n\nPhala is a Sanskrit term that means “fruit” of one's actions in Hinduism and Buddhism. In Buddhism, the following types of \"phala\" are identified:\n\nIn Hinduism, the term \"phala\" is translated as fruition, results, effects.\n\nThe Yoga-Sûtra of Patañjali (verse 2.36) states:\n\nWithin Buddhism, the term \"phala\" is used to refer to the fruition or results of actions according to the doctrine of karmic action and result.\n\nThe term \"phala\" is translated as:\n\nThe term \"Ariya phala\" is used to refer specifically to the fruition of following the Buddhist path. The fruition for each of the four levels of the path is identified as follows:\n\nThe term \"Maha-phala\" refers to the ten \"Great fruits\" of the contemplative life. According to the \"Samaññaphala Sutta\", the 10 “Great fruits” (DN 2) are:\n\nThe fruit (phala) of Buddhism and Hinduism are comparable the charisms of Charismatic Christianity which are known as the \"sign-gifts” of the Holy Spirit, which are the charisms of prophesy, healing, and speaking in tongues, as described in the Christian Gospels 1 Corinthians 12.\n\n"}
{"id": "21265548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21265548", "title": "Piper diagram", "text": "Piper diagram\n\nA piper diagram is a graphical representation of the chemistry of a water sample or samples.\n\nThe cations and anions are shown by separate ternary plots. The apexes of the cation plot are calcium, magnesium and sodium plus potassium cations. The apexes of the anion plot are sulfate, chloride and carbonate plus hydrogen carbonate anions. The two ternary plots are then projected onto a diamond. The diamond is a matrix transformation of a graph of the anions (sulfate + chloride/ total anions) and cations (sodium + potassium/total cations).\n\nThe required matrix transformation of the anion/cation graph is:\n\nThe piper diagram is suitable for comparing the ionic composition of a set of water samples, but does not lend itself to spatial comparisons. For geographical applications, the Stiff diagram and Maucha diagram are more applicable, because they can be used as markers on a map. Colour coding of the background of the Piper diagram allows linking Piper Diagrams and maps\n\nWater samples shown on the Piper diagram can be grouped in hydrochemical facies. The cation and anion triangles can be separated in regions based on the dominant cation(s) or anion(s) and their combination creates regions in the diamond shaped part of the diagram.\n\n"}
{"id": "1840937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1840937", "title": "Porter hypothesis", "text": "Porter hypothesis\n\nAccording to the Porter hypothesis, strict environmental regulations can induce efficiency and encourage innovations that help improve commercial competitiveness. The hypothesis was formulated by the economist Michael Porter in an article in 1995.\n\nThe hypothesis suggests that strict environmental regulation triggers the discovery and introduction of cleaner technologies and environmental improvements, the innovation effect, making production processes and products more efficient. The cost savings that can be achieved are sufficient to overcompensate for both the compliance costs directly attributed to new regulations and the innovation costs.\n\nIn the first mover advantage, a company is able to exploit innovation by learning curve effects or patenting and attains a dominating competitive position compared to companies in countries where environmental regulations were enforced much later.\n\nThe Porter hypothesis has been applied to REACH. In one conclusion, companies that adopt a cost leadership business strategy and have a relatively small product portfolio will fare better than companies that compete by product differentiation and have a larger number of chemicals that require regulation.\n\nVarious studies found that stricter environmental regulation stimulates innovation (\"weak\" version of Porter hypothesis). There is mixed evidence whether stricter regulation enhances business performance (\"strong\" version). Whether the type of regulation - market-based approaches or requirements and prohibitions - has an impact, is an open question. Economic theory suggests that market based instruments could be more efficient but there is mixed empirical evidence. A study of OECD countries, however, showed no evidence of permanent effects of environmental policy tightening on productivity following the introduction of environmental measures, regardless of the type of regulation.\n\nMichael E. Porter and Claas van der Linde, \"Green and Competitive\" Harvard Business Review (Sept-October 1995), p 120-134.\n\n"}
{"id": "188496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188496", "title": "Reflective equilibrium", "text": "Reflective equilibrium\n\nReflective equilibrium is a state of balance or coherence among a set of beliefs arrived at by a process of deliberative mutual adjustment among general principles and particular judgments. Although he did not use the term, philosopher Nelson Goodman introduced the method of reflective equilibrium as an approach to justifying the \"principles\" of inductive logic. The term 'reflective equilibrium' was coined by John Rawls and popularized in his \"A Theory of Justice\" as a method for arriving at the content of the principles of justice.\n\nRawls argues that human beings have a \"sense of justice\" which is both a source of moral judgment and moral motivation. In Rawls's theory, we begin with \"considered judgments\" that arise from the sense of justice. These may be judgments about general moral principles (of any level of generality) or specific moral cases. If our judgments conflict in some way, we proceed by adjusting our various beliefs until they are in \"equilibrium\", which is to say that they are stable, not in conflict, and provide consistent practical guidance. Rawls argues that a set of moral beliefs in ideal reflective equilibrium describes or characterizes the underlying principles of the human sense of justice.\n\nAn example of the method of reflective equilibrium may be useful. Suppose Zachary believes in the general principle of always obeying the commands in the Bible, and mistakenly thinks that these are completely encompassed by every Old Testament command. Suppose also that he thinks that it is not ethical to stone people to death merely for being Wiccan. These views may come into conflict (see Exodus 22:18, but see John 8:7). If they do, Zachary will then have several choices. He can discard his general principle in search of a better one (for example, only obeying the Ten Commandments), modify his general principle (for example, choosing a different translation of the Bible, or letting Jesus' teaching from John 8:7 \"If any of you is without sin, let him be the first to cast a stone\" override the Old Testament command), or change his opinions about the point in question to conform with his theory (by deciding that witches really should be killed). Whatever the decision, he has moved toward reflective equilibrium.\n\nReflective equilibrium serves an important justificatory function within Rawls's political theory. The nature of this function, however, is disputed. The dominant view, best exemplified by the work of Norman Daniels and Thomas Scanlon, is that the method of reflective equilibrium is a kind of coherentist method for the epistemic justification of moral beliefs. However, in other writings, Rawls seems to argue that his theory bypasses traditional metaethical questions, including questions of moral epistemology, and is intended instead to serve a practical function. This provides some motivation for a different view of the justificatory role of reflective equilibrium. On this view, the method of reflective equilibrium serves its justificatory function by linking together the cognitive and motivational aspects of the human sense of justice in the appropriate way.\n\nRawls argues that candidate principles of justice cannot be justified unless they are shown to be stable. Principles of justice are stable if, among other things, the members of society regard them as authoritative and reliably compliant with them. The method of reflective equilibrium determines a set of principles rooted in the human sense of justice, which is a capacity that both provides the material for the process of reflective equilibration and our motivation to adhere to principles we judge morally sound. The method of reflective equilibrium serves the aim of defining a realistic and stable social order by determining a practically coherent set of principles that are grounded in the right way in the source of our moral motivation, such that we will be disposed to comply with them. As Fred D'Agostino puts it, stable principles of justice will require considerable \"up-take\" by the members of society. The method of reflective equilibrium provides a way of settling on principles that will achieve the kind of \"up-take\" necessary for stability.\n\nReflective equilibrium is not static, though Rawls allows for provisional fixed points; it will change as the individual considers his opinions about individual issues or explores the consequences of his principles.\n\nRawls applied this technique to his conception of a hypothetical original position from which people would agree to a social contract. He arrived at the conclusion that the optimal theory of justice is the one to which people would agree from behind a veil of ignorance, not knowing their social positions.\n\nWide reflective equilibrium, first introduced by Rawls, has been described by Norman Daniels as \"a method that attempts to produce coherence in ordered triple sets of beliefs held by a particular person, namely: (a) a set of considered moral judgments, (b) a set of moral principles, and (c) a set of relevant (scientific and philosophical) background theories\".\n\nKai Nielsen has asserted that \"philosophers who are defenders of reflective equilibrium are also \"constructivists\"\", in response to what he considered to be the misconception that reflective equilibrium works with some necessarily preexisting coherent system of moral beliefs and practices: \n\nPaul Thagard has criticized the method of reflective equilibrium as \"only like a smokescreen for a relatively sophisticated form of logical and methodological relativism\" and \"at best incidental to the process of developing normative principles\". Among the \"numerous problems\" of reflective equilibrium, Thagard counted \"undue reliance on intuition and the danger of arriving at stable but suboptimal sets of norms\". In place of reflective equilibrium, Thagard recommended what he considered to be a more consequentialist method of justifying norms by identifying a domain of practices, identifying candidate norms for the practices, identifying the appropriate goals of the practices, evaluating the extent to which different practices accomplish these goals, and adopting as domain norms the practices that best accomplish these goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10630303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10630303", "title": "Section (category theory)", "text": "Section (category theory)\n\nIn category theory, a branch of mathematics, a section is a right inverse of some morphism. Dually, a retraction is a left inverse of some morphism.\nIn other words, if \"f\" : \"X\" → \"Y\" and \"g\" : \"Y\" → \"X\" are morphisms whose composition \"f\" \"g\" : \"Y\" → \"Y\" is the identity morphism on \"Y\", then \"g\" is a section of \"f\", and \"f\" is a retraction of \"g\".\n\nEvery section is a monomorphism, and every retraction is an epimorphism.\n\nIn algebra the sections are also called split monomorphisms and the retractions split epimorphisms.\nIn an abelian category, if \"f\" : \"X\" → \"Y\" is a split epimorphism with split monomorphism \"g\" : \"Y\" → \"X\",\nthen \"X\" is isomorphic to the direct sum of \"Y\" and the kernel of \"f\".\n\nIn the category of sets, every monomorphism (injective function) with a non-empty domain is a section and every epimorphism (surjective function) is a retraction; the latter statement is equivalent to the axiom of choice.\n\nIn the category of vector spaces over a field \"K\", every monomorphism and every epimorphism splits; this follows from the fact that linear maps can be uniquely defined by specifying their values on a basis.\n\nIn the category of abelian groups, the epimorphism Z→Z/2Z which sends every integer to its image modulo 2 does not split; in fact the only morphism Z/2Z→Z is the 0 map. Similarly, the natural monomorphism Z/2Z→Z/4Z doesn't split even though there is a non-trivial homomorphism Z/4Z→Z/2Z.\n\nThe categorical concept of a section is important in homological algebra, and is also closely related to the notion of a section of a fiber bundle in topology: in the latter case, a section of a fiber bundle is a section of the bundle projection map of the fiber bundle.\n\nGiven a quotient space formula_1 with quotient map formula_2, a section of formula_3 is called a transversal.\n\n"}
{"id": "7457260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7457260", "title": "Secular icon", "text": "Secular icon\n\nA secular icon is an image or pictograph of a person or thing used for other than religious purpose. (See icon for such use.)\n"}
{"id": "49492401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49492401", "title": "Semasiography", "text": "Semasiography\n\nSemasiography (from (semasia) \"signification, meaning\" and (graphia) \"writing\") is \"writing with signs\", a non-phonetic based technique to \"communicate information without the necessary intercession of forms of speech.\" It means written symbols and languages that are not based on spoken words. It predated the advent of the creation of the language-based writing system and is used contemporarily in computer icons, musical notation, emoji and mathematical notation. It is studied in semasiology within the field of linguistics.\n"}
{"id": "37372668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37372668", "title": "Setsuban Kanri", "text": "Setsuban Kanri\n\nSetsuban Kanri (節番管理) is the name of a production management methodology for make-to-order business companies. More specifically, it indicates a \"management system by synchronized process blocks\" which had been originally set and implemented as a management model for the control of the manufacturing progress with makers whose products were very much tailored upon the requests of their customers. It is specific to organizations where the production model is one of the following: DTO (\"Design-to-order\"), ETO (\"Engineer-to-order\"), ATO (\"Assembly-to-order\") or MTO (\"Make-to-order\").\n\nThe first applications of this model concerned the Japanese railways and the aviation industry, which in the operational management of activities had been referring to a block by block workflow progress management system (what is meant literally by the expression \"suishin kusei kōtei kanri\" 推進区制工程管理).\n\nThis one was the root of the so-called Oiban kanri for series production management, of the Seiban kanri for discontinuous productions and of the Setsuban Kanri for make-to-order productions. The study and formalization of this threefold approach were run later on by JMA - the Japan Management Association, who could base their work on the most significant industrial experiences to date (such as the application of the oiban kanri at Kawasaki Heavy Industries). Besides, they could enrich and tune the methodological contents with specific implementation tools and gave meaningful contributions to the definition of the methodology itself, which was named Setsuban Kanri from the reading of the ideographic characters 節 (setsu = period/temporal unit) and 番 (ban = ordinal number) + 管理 (kanri = management, control).\n\nEmployed until the 1970s in many companies operating as make-to-order in Japan, for some decades it has fallen out of practice and knowledge. Since 2006, thanks to the direct initiative of Akira Kōdate, a Japanese engineer who launched it and promoted its application in Italy. Its name had a revival and it is now being adopted by several companies (among machine tools makers especially).\n\nThe basic principles of the Setsuban Kanri are:\n\n1. \"Awareness of both the \"axes\" (nijiku kanri 二軸管理) to be managed\".\n\nMake-order productions need a continuous monitoring to grant for integration and fair balance in-between the following:\n\na. the X axis represents the made-to-order flow, where attention must be paid to quality, cost, time, and customer satisfaction issues per each order, throughout all work phases - from the order receipt to the delivery to customer.\n\nb. the Y axis represents the department/function where attention should be paid in managing the load/capacity, know-how and priorities to complete all the orders which go through a single dept./function.\n\nThe targets for every order can be achieved only by managing at the same time both axes according to a production plan which allows the various production flows get synchronized one another. Actually, the current Project Management practices generally result too unbalanced on the X axis; the normal practices of production management, on the contrary, tend to focus almost exclusively to the governance of the Y axis.\n\n2. \"Synchronization\".\n\nIt is like what happens with the Japanese railway system: the on time arrival of trains is not granted by forcing a check on each single train on the run. Instead, it is the result of careful synchronization of the entry and departure of all the trains from/to each railway station. Each train is considered with reference to the train running before and the one to follow. That is to say that the sequence can be effectively managed only by synchronizing the entire system and verifying the consistency among the drawings release plan, the supply plan and the production plan.\n\n3. \"Backward planning starting from point zero\".\n\nEvery single order must be planned backwards starting prom a point zero (the point after which it is no longer necessary to have processes monitored because there is a minimum risk of jamming). Choosing a reference time unit called Setsuban (can be days, weeks, decades or months), a number of time units are accounted for in the calendar and the duration of each stage in the working flow is fixed accordingly, and referred to by using delivery indicators called \"teban\" (see below).\n\n4. \"The fourfold multilevel planning\".\nThe planning system consists of 4 levels:\n\na. Level 0 or \"portfolio planning\": all orders to all departments/functions\n\nb. Level 1 or \"make-to-order planning\": each order through all departments\n\nc. Level 2 or \"department planning\": all the orders with each department/function\n\nd. Level 3 or \"block planning\": plan by block, that is a set of activities related to every single order being realized inside a single department/function.\n\nWorkflow progress block (Suishin-ku 推進区):\n\nA set of activities realized for a production order within the department or office where a person is clearly identified to be in charge of the correct (qualitative) completion and of meeting the production plan as well.\n\nReference time unit (Setsuban 節番):\n\nThe unit in which the time available is divided and the basis on which the plan is organized. For simplicity the week is generally preferred (the work shift or a period of time – e.g. 10 days - can be chosen instead).\n\nDelivery turn (Teban手番):\n\nThe number showing the moment of time when the object planned should reach or leave a specific division or office (e.g. piece to be worked at dept. Y supposed to get in the dept. at teban 23 and to leave the same department at teban 25).\n\nWorkflow progress assistant (Shinkōin 進行員):\n\nThe person in charge of the due progress of the job /activity block in the department where the part/product is being manufactured. It is not necessarily an assigned job role, as it can be performed by the shift leader, by the head of department, by single operators or even by the in-house logistic workforce (e.g. the forklift operator).\n\nThe management system (Suishin kusei kōtei kanri 推進区制工程管理):\n\nThe true name of the organizational and managerial system and the concept the \"setsuban kanri\" has been referring to from its origins. The term refers to the set of processes, roles, coordination mechanisms and supporting visual tools which allow the management of processes/organizational functions by \"blocks of stepping progress (advancement)\".\n\nOne of the founding principles of Setsuban Kanri is that the work progress control can take place only by combining to electronic tools some visual tools the use of which is the closest possible to the physical place where things happen (e.g. Assembly Dept., R&D office). Four types of tools are used:\n\n• Tools for controlling the quality, cost, time,and customer satisfaction progress over each order for all the y axes\n\n• Tools for managing the workload and capacity, priorities and competences through all the y axes\n\n• Tools for synchronization and portfolio control (e.g. Portfolio plans, aggregated KPIs, etc.)\n\n• Tools for the know-how retrieval and for the execution speed-up of each activity.\n\nThe method shares many aspects with the Lean Thinking techniques. Inspired by the Toyota Production System (TPS), it facilitates the application of the same approach to make-to-order business companies, while overcoming some of its limits. As a matter of fact, the Setsuban Kanri is adopting approaches which meet the needs of discontinuous production, high product customization and strict cross-relation among the sale, design and production phases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3290971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3290971", "title": "Snake pit", "text": "Snake pit\n\nA snake pit is, in a literal sense, a hole filled with snakes. In idiomatic speech, \"snake pits\" are places of horror, torture and even death in European legends and fairy tales. The Viking warlord Ragnar Lodbrok is said to have been thrown into a snake pit and died there, after his army had been defeated in battle by King Aelle II of Northumbria. An older legend recorded in \"Atlakviða\" and \"Oddrúnargrátr\" tells that Attila the Hun murdered Gunnarr, the King of Burgundy, in a snake pit. In a medieval German poem, Dietrich von Bern is thrown into a snake pit by the giant Sigenot – he is protected by a magical jewel that had been given to him earlier by a dwarf.\n\n"}
{"id": "35090653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35090653", "title": "Social emotions", "text": "Social emotions\n\nSocial emotions are emotions that depend upon the thoughts, feelings or actions of other people, \"as experienced, recalled, anticipated or imagined at first hand\". Examples are embarrassment, guilt, shame, jealousy, envy, empathy, and pride. In contrast, basic emotions such as happiness and sadness only require the awareness of one's own physical state. Therefore, the development of social emotions is tightly linked with the development of social cognition, the ability to imagine other people's mental states, which generally develops in adolescence. Studies have found that children as young as 2 to 3 years of age can express emotions resembling guilt and remorse. However, while five-year-old children are able to imagine situations in which basic emotions would be felt, the ability to describe situations in which social emotions might be experienced does not appear until seven years of age.\n\nPeople may not only share emotions with others, but may also experience similar physiological arousal to others if they feel a sense of social connectedness to the other person. A laboratory-based study by Cwir, Car, Walton, and Spencer (2011) showed that, when a participant felt a sense of social connectedness to a stranger (research confederate), the participant experienced similar emotional states and physiological responses to that of the stranger while observing the stranger perform a stressful task.\n\nSocial emotions are sometimes called moral emotions, because they play an important role in morality and moral decision making. In neuroeconomics, the role social emotions play in game theory and economic decision-making is just starting to be investigated.\n\nAfter functional imaging—functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in particular—became popular roughly a decade ago, researchers have begun to study economic decision-making with this new technology. This allows researchers to investigate, on a neurological level, the role emotions play in decision-making.\n\nThe ability to describe situations in which a social emotion will be experienced emerges at around age 7, and, by adolescence, the experience of social emotion permeates everyday social exchange. Studies using fMRI have found that different brain regions are involved in different age groups when performing social-cognitive and social-emotional tasks. While brain areas such as medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), superior temporal sulcus (STS), temporal poles (TP) and precuneus bordering with posterior cingulate cortex are activated in both adults and adolescents when they reason about intentionality of others, the medial PFC is more activated in adolescents and the right STS more in adults. Similar age effects were found with younger participants, such that, when participants perform tasks that involve theory of mind, increase in age is correlated with an increase in activation in the dorsal part of the MPFC and a decrease in the activity in the ventral part of the MPFC were observed.\n\nStudies that compare adults with adolescents in their processings of basic and social emotions also suggest developmental shifts in brain areas being involved. Comparing with adolescents, the left temporal pole has a stronger activity in adults when they read stories that elicit social emotions. The temporal poles are thought to store abstract social knowledge. This suggests that adult might use social semantic knowledge more often when thinking about social-emotional situations than adolescents.\n\nTo investigate the function of social emotions in economic behaviors, researchers are interested in the differences in brain regions involved when participants are playing with, or think that they are playing with, another person as opposed to a computer. A study with fMRI found that, for participants who tend to cooperate on two-person “trust and reciprocity” games, believing that they are playing with another participant activated the prefrontal cortex, while believing that they are playing with a computer did not. This difference was not seen with players who tend not to cooperate. The authors interpret this difference as theory of minds that cooperators employ to anticipate the opponents' strategies. This is an example of the way social decision making differs from other forms of decision making.\n\nIn behavioral economics, a heavy criticism is that people do not always act in a fully rational way, as many economic models assume. For example, in the ultimatum game, two players are asked to divide a certain amount of money, say \"x\". One player, called the \"proposer\", decides ratio by which the money gets divided. The other player, called the \"responder\", decides whether or not to accept this offer. If the responder accepts the offer, say, \"y\" amount of money, then the proposer gets \"x-y\" amount and the responder gets \"y\". But if the responder refuses to accept the offer, both players get nothing. This game is widely studied in behavioral economics. According to the rational agent model, the most rational way for the proposer to act is to make \"y\" as small as possible, and the most rational way for the responder to act is to accept the offer, since little amount of money is better than no money. However, what these experiments tend to find is that the proposers tend to offer 40% of \"x\", and offers below 20% would get rejected by the responders. Using fMRI scans, researchers found that social emotions elicited by the offers may play a role in explaining the result. When offers are unfair as opposed to fair, three regions of the brain are active: the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), and the insula. The insula is an area active in registering body discomfort.\nIt is activated when people feel, among other things, social exclusion. The authors interpret activity in the insula as the aversive reaction one feels when faced with unfairness, activity in the DLPFC as processing the future reward from keeping the money, and the ACC is an arbiter that weighs these two conflicting inputs to make a decision. Whether or not the offer gets rejected can be predicted (with a correlation of 0.45) by the level of the responder's insula activity.\n\nNeuroeconomics and social emotions are also tightly linked in the study of punishment. Research using PET scan has found that, when players punish other players, activity in the nucleus accumbens (part of the striatum), a region known for processing rewards derived from actions gets activated. It shows that we not only feel hurtful when we become victims of unfairness, but we also find it psychologically rewarding to punish the wrongdoer, even at a cost to our own utility.\n\nSome social emotions are also referred to as moral emotions because of the fundamental role they play in morality. For example, guilt is the discomfort and regret one feels over one's wrongdoing. It is a social emotion, because it requires the perception that another person is being hurt by this act; and it also has implication in morality, such that the guilty actor, in virtue of feeling distressed and guilty, accepts responsibility for the wrongdoing, which might cause desire to make amends or punish the self.\n\nNot all social emotions are moral emotions. Pride, for instance, is a social emotion which involves the perceived admiration of other people, but research on the role it plays in moral behaviors yields problematic results.\n\nEmpathy is defined by Eisenberg and colleagues as an affective response that stems from the apprehension or comprehension of another's emotional state or condition and is similar to what the other person is feeling or would be expected to feel. Guilt, which is a social emotion with strong moral implication, is also strongly correlated with empathic responsiveness; whereas shame, an emotion with less moral flavor, is negatively correlated with empathic responsiveness, when controlling for guilt.\n\nPerceived controllability also plays an important role modulating people's socio-emotional reactions and empathic responses. For example, participants who are asked to evaluate other people's academic performances are more likely to assign punishments when the low performance is interpreted as low-effort, as opposed to low-ability. Stigmas also elicit more empathic response when they are perceived as uncontrollable (i.e., having a biological origin, such as having certain disease), as opposed to controllable (i.e. having a behavioral origin, such as obesity).\n\n"}
{"id": "57682344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57682344", "title": "Spinal Cord Independence Measure", "text": "Spinal Cord Independence Measure\n\nOutcome measures in rehabilitation medicine, are tools used to evaluate the level of disability. They could be beneficial for physicians to judge the path of patient's recovery, for researchers to compare different management protocols and for politicians in order to find the cost-effectiveness of their decisions.\n\nAs an outcome measure specifically designed for spinal cord injury, the Spinal Cord Independence Measure is a tool that evaluates how much safe, cheap and independent, a patient can do basic activities of daily living.\n\nThe measure consists of 19 items categorized in three subscales:self care, respiration and sphincter management, and mobility.\n\nIts last version, SCIM III has been validated in many multicenter trials and translated into Italian, Spanish, Greek, Portuguese, Thai, Turkish and Persian languages. It has been concluded that SCIM III has the most appropriate psychometric properties for measuring functional level of spinal cord injured individuals.\n"}
{"id": "13730613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13730613", "title": "Symbolic behavior", "text": "Symbolic behavior\n\nSymbolic behavior is “a person’s capacity to respond to or use a system of significant symbols” (Faules & Alexander, 1978, p. 5). The symbolic behavior perspective argues that the reality of an organization is socially constructed through communication (Cheney & Christensen, 2000; Putnam, Phillips, & Chapman, 1996). Symbolic messages are used by individuals to understand their environment and create a social reality (Faules & Alexander, 1978; Mills, 2002). When faced with uncertainty, individuals continually organize themselves within their group based reality and respond within that reality (Weick, 1995).\n\nSymbolic interactionism (SI), a phrase coined by Herbert Blumer as early as 1937, was derived from lectures of early philosophy and sociologist theorist George Herbert Mead’s student notes. Mead’s notes from a course he taught in social psychology were posthumously transcribed into the book Mind, Self, and Society; 1934. Mead, born in 1863, arguably laid the foundation for the symbolic interactionism concept of how the individual mind arises out of the social process. Mead’s description of language as communication through significant symbols and concepts of “me” and “I” are examples of his contributions to symbolic behavior perspective. Symbolic behavior perspective stems from symbolic interactionism perspective. Blumer (1962) summarizes the perspective as how people act towards things based on the meaning those things have for them. These meanings are derived from social interaction and modified through interpretation. The symbolic interactionism perspective relates to the organization by describing how employees form a concept of self in relationship to their organization as they interact with individuals, subordinates, and superiors within the organizational architecture. Individuals learn appropriate behavior within an organization as the code of values, roles, attitudes, and norms of behavior of that work environment become apparent (Wood, 1999).\n\nSymbolic behavior perspective proposes that individuals are faced with uncertainty when introduced to an organization. This uncertainty creates a reliance on symbolic messages so individuals can make sense of their environment (Brown, 1986). In order to reduce uncertainty, organizations create sets of standardized meanings depicted by symbols. As symbolic messages are interpreted by individuals, they react collectively within the organizational culture. As organizational cultures are learned, shared, and transmitted a collective social reality emerges (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 225). Organizational cultures are created and maintained by symbolic behavior, giving managers an opportunity to create, articulate, and sustain the organization’s values as individuals focus on [shared values] (Colvin, 2000, p. F-9). The symbolic nature of shared values can also reduce ambiguity and tension within an organization (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 233).\nAccording to Mead's theory, a social act involves a three-part relationship: an initial gesture from one person, a response to that gesture by another, and a result. The result is what the act means for the communicator (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 160).\n\nThe above discussion can be summarized into 7 major propositions posited by Symbolic Behavior Perspective. The issues of complexity, uncertainty and organizing, cultural creation and maintenance, interpersonal reality, group behavior, leadership, and managing incongruences are addressed in the following propositions (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 222):\n\nProposition 1: Organizational complexity creates a reliance on symbolic messages.\n\nProposition 2: Uncertainty promotes a continual process of organizing.\n\nProposition 3: Symbolic behavior creates and maintains organizational cultures.\n\nProposition 4: Symbols constitute the basis for interpersonal reality.\n\nProposition 5: Groups reaffirm the importance of symbolic behavior.\n\nProposition 6: Leadership requires effective symbolic behavior.\n\nProposition 7: Incongruences and paradoxes are managed through acculturation.\n\nAccording to Harris & Nelson (2008, p. 237), tools consist of anything that provides symbolic meaning to people. Tools can be in the form of verbal or non-verbal communication.\n\nStories/myths: As stories are continually repeated, they provide analogies for individuals and serve to guide behavior within the organization.\n\nTitles: The use of titles communicates the relationship of the employee in correlation to the organization.\n\nSlogans: Slogans can be used to reinforce established priorities or to bring attention to new priorities (Waterman, 1987).\n\nDress: Clothing is very important to an organization because it communicates culture (Remland, 2003). Because clothing can influence perceptions of both behavior and intent (Galin, 1990, p. 51), the dress code of an organization can impact their overall image.\n\nPriorities: The priorities within an organization and the way they are carried out on daily basis carry enormous impact. Individuals can better identify with the organization when management’s priorities are in line with those of employees (Harris & Nelson, 2008, p. 238).\n\nAn over-reliance on symbolic activities can lead to significant problems. These include unethical manipulation, empty or meaningless actions, omnipresence, divisions, and unexpected interpretations (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 239). Likewise, Blumer notes in advanced societies large group actions consist of highly recurrent, stable patterns that establish common, established meanings for the participants. Blumer heads a warning to bear in mind that new situations present problems requiring adjustment and redefinition (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 160).\n\nThe use of gimmickry, using superficial pleasantness to cover up dishonest activities or intentions, providing misleading or incorrect advice regarding safety, or providing untrue explanations for behaviors are means used by unethical organizations, managers, or coworkers in order to obtain some advantage (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 240).\n\nWithout meaning individuals can get caught up in an activity trap, where styles gets substituted for substance (Robbins 1980). Diversity efforts are criticized for focusing more on comparative statistics generated by sporadic efforts and less on the nature of the issues a clearly thought-out strategic solution (Harris, 1997).\n\nSymbolic messages can prevent effective change or realistic responses to environmental demands. Cultures create identification and unity (Tompkins & Cheney, 1983), these trained incapacities can occur when values are strong or the culture’s influence is too pervasive. Specifically, obsolescence, resistance to change, and inconsistency are the three risks posed by strong values (Deal & Kennedy, 1982). Strong cultures dictate roles and performances meaning individuals can be co-opted by the culture and its messages (Conrad, 1985). Mead called a gesture with shared meaning a \"significant symbol\", suggesting that once there is shared meaning the gesture takes on the value of a significant symbol (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 161).\n\nSymbols can create great divisions in an organization. Culture provides both division and unity, and the symbols used to reinforce the organization can create powerful social alienation between individuals and groups. Subcultures develop between managers and workers, blue and white collars, or factory and sales creating the potential for a “them versus us” environment (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 243).\n\nCan be unpredictable because individuals respond to symbolic behavior through their own frame of reference, attempts to use symbolism can have unintended results (Harris and Nelson 2008, p. 244). A judicious use of symbols is necessary or the wrong action based on the right intent can occur. A powerful sense of organizational pride can lead to dysfunctional responses by employees and managers (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 244).\n\nA dramatistic perspective views individuals as actors “who creatively play, improvise, interpret, and re-present roles and scripts” (Conquergood, 1991, p. 187). Because the set of intangible activities that support the actual service itself provide a satisfying experience or a performance worth an increased financial burden (Pine & Gilmore, 1999).\n\nLearning to act out appropriate roles is a fundamental aspect of human development and important to organizational success (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 244). One's own ability to use significant symbols to respond to one's self makes the thinking process possible.\n\nPutting on an appropriate front (e.g. choice of clothes, language, facial expressions, excellent customer service) provides messages to support the role (Harris & Nelson 2008, p 245). Some individuals seem more adept at saying and doing the right thing at the right time, thereby avoiding malapropisms with some regularity. Individuals and group role abilities often determine the acceptability of the act (Pacanowsky & O’Donnell-Trujillo, 1983).\n\nUsing verbal and nonverbal symbols to fulfill the requirements of the role leads to dramatic realization (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 246). Image presentation and impression management are popular concepts for these efforts (Lord & Maher, 1991). Although there may be legitimate concerns regarding unethical impression management, it is a useful tool “to secure leadership positions and to achieve goals” (Hackman & Johnson, 2000, p. 24).\n\nA certain amount of mystification is required to put distance between the actor and the audience (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 247).\n\nRituals are acted out by performances and encompass all repeated activities (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248). Rituals provide for organizational reality.\n\nThe rituals of arrival include those processes that explain what we must learn in order to be a bonafide member of the organization (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248). Socialization is the process of indoctrinating Indoctrination new employees to a company’s policies. New members find that “taken-for-granted ways no longer fit; the familiar customs and practices of the previous job or role are inappropriate” (Gabriel et al., 2000, p. 16). Many organizations have adopted a clear acculturation process to guarantee successful socialization (Harris, 1990).\n\nOnce an individual is a part of an organization, there are rituals of belonging and exclusion (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248). Belonging rituals are indications that one is being accepted within the organization and or work group (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 248).\n\nOrganization rites are planned activities that have both practical and expressive consequences (Harris & Nelson 2008, p. 250). When this definition is applied to corporate life, such diverse activities as personnel testing, organizational development programs, and collective bargaining can be seen as rites that have not only practical consequences but also express important cultural meanings (Trice & Beyer, 1985, pp. 372–373).\n\nAs mentioned above, symbolic behavior perspective has strong roots in symbolic interactionism perspective. SI described as a movement is devoted to exploring ways people come together, or come to share meaning. Philosopher Susan Langer created the Symbol Theory which posits symbolism to be the central concern of philosophy because it underlies all human knowing and understanding (Littlejohn & Foss, p. 105). Langer believes that while all animal life is dominated by feeling, human feeling is mediated by conceptions, symbols and language. Animals respond to signs, but humans' stimulus from a sign is significantly more complex. The perspective is also associated with symbolic communication where animal societies are studied to help understand how symbolic communication affects the conduct of members of cooperating group. Symbolic behavior is also linked to the work of American anthropologist Leslie Alvin White (1940) who stated that “all human behavior originates in the use of symbols.” He believed human behavior and symbolic behavior to be synonymous with one another. Symbolic behavior perspective is also closely related to organizational communication and interpersonal relationships which involve interaction between two or more people and how they work together to achieve goals.\n\nBlumer, Herbert (1962). \"Society as Symbolic Interaction\", in Arnold M. Rose: Human Behavior and Social Process: An Interactionist Approach. Houghton-Mifflin. Reprinted in Blumer (1969).\n\nBlumer, Herbert (1969). Symbolic Interactionism: Perspective and Method. Berkeley: University of California Press.\n\nBrown, M.H. (1986). Sense-making and narrative forms: Reality construction in organizations. In L. Theayer (Ed.), Organization-communication: Emberging perspectives I (pp. 68–78). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.\n\nCheney, G., & Christensen, L. T. (2000). Identity as issue: Linkages between “internal” and “external” organizational communication. In F.M. Jablin & L.L. Putnam (Eds.), New handbook of organizational communication (pp. 231–269). Thousands Oaks, CA: Sage.\n\nColvin, G. (2000, March 6). Managing in the info era. Fortune, pp. F6-9.\n\nConrad, C. (1985). Stragic organizational communication: Cultures, situations, and adaptation. New York:Holt, Rinehart, & Winston.\n\nCouquergood, D. (1991). Rethingking ethnography: Toward a critical cultural politics. Communication Monographs, 58, 179-187.\n\nDeal, T. E., & Kennedy, A. A. (1982). Corporate cultures: The rites and rituals of corporate life. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.\n\nFaules, D.F., & Alexander, D.C. (1978). Communication and social behavior: A symbolic interaction perspective. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.\n\nGabriel, Y., Fineman, S., & Sims, D. (2000). Organizing and organizations (2nd ed.). London: Sage.\n\nGalin, A. (1990). Does the way you dress affect your performance rating? Personnel, 67, 49-53.\n\nHackman, M. Z., & Johnson, C. E.(2000). Leadership: A communication perspective (3rd ed.). Prospect Heights, IL: Waveland.\n\nHarris. T. E. (1997).Diversity:Importance, ironcies, and pathways. In C.D. Brown, C. Snedeker, &B. Sykes (Eds). Conflict and diversity (pp. 17–34). Cresskill, NJ: Hampton.\n\nHarris. T. E. (1990). Organizational cultures: An examination of the role of communication. In S. Thomas & W.A. Evans (Eds.), Communication and culture: Language, performance, technology, and media (Vol. 4 pp. 143–155). Norwood, NJ: Ablex.\n\nHarris, T. E. and M. D. Nelson (2008). Applied organizational communication (3rd edition). Lawrence Erlbaum Associates: New York: NY.\n\nHistorical Development of Symbolic Interactionism. A Timeline of S.I. http://socsci.colorado.edu/SOC/SI/si-timeline.htm\n\nLittlejohn, Stephen W. and Foss, Karen A. Theories of Human Communication, 9th Edition. (The Thomson Wadsworth Corporation, 2008. Belmont, CA)\n\nLord, R .G., & Maher, K. J. (1991). Leadership and information processing: Linking perceptions and performance. Boston: Unwin Hyman.\n\nMills, C. (2002). The hidden dimension of blue-collar sense-making about workplace communication. The Journal of Business Communication, 39(1), 288-313.\n\nPacanowsky, M., & O’Donnell-Trujillo, N. (1983). Organizational communication as cultural performance. Communication Monographs, 50, 126-147.\n\nPine, B. J., II, & Gilmore, J. H. (1999). The experience economy: Work is theatre every business a stage. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.\n\nPutnam, L., Phillips, N., & Chapman, P. (1996). Metaphors for communication and organization. In S. Clegg, C. Hardy, & W. Nord (Eds.), Handbook of organizational studies (pp. 375–408). London: Sage.\n\nTompkins, P. K., & Cheney, G. (1983). Account analysis of organizations: Decision making and identification. In L.L. Putnam & M.E. Pacanowsky (Eds.), Communication in organizations: An interpretive approach (pp. 123–146). Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.\n\nTrice, H. M., & Beyer, J. M. (1985). Six organizational rites to change culture. In R.H. Killman, M.J. Saxton, R. Serpa, & Associates (Eds.), Gaining control of the corporate culture (pp. 368–379). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.\n\nWaterman, R. H., Jr. (1987). The renewal factor. New York: Bantam.\n\nWeick, K. (1995). Sensemaking in organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.\n\nWood, J. T. (1999). Relational communication: Continuity and change in personal relationships (2nd ed.). U.S.: Thomson Wadsworth.\n"}
{"id": "31124859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31124859", "title": "Tower (mathematics)", "text": "Tower (mathematics)\n\nIn category theory, a branch of abstract mathematics, a tower is defined as follows. Let formula_1 be the poset\n\nof whole numbers in reverse order, regarded as a category. A (countable) tower of objects in a category formula_3 is a functor from formula_1 to formula_3.\n\nIn other words, a tower (of formula_3) is a family of objects formula_7 in formula_3 where there exists a map\nand the composition\nis the map formula_12\n\nLet formula_13 for some formula_14-module formula_15. Let formula_16 be the identity map for formula_10. Then formula_18 forms a tower of modules.\n\n"}
{"id": "1666427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666427", "title": "Transcendence (philosophy)", "text": "Transcendence (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, transcendence conveys the basic ground concept from the word's literal meaning (from Latin), of climbing or going beyond, albeit with varying connotations in its different historical and cultural stages. It includes philosophies, systems, and approaches that describe the fundamental structures of being, not as an ontology (theory of being), but as the framework of emergence and validation of knowledge of being. \"Transcendental\" is a word derived from the scholastic, designating the extra-categorical attributes of beings. \n\nIn religion, transcendence refers to the aspect of a god's nature and power which is wholly independent of the material universe, beyond all physical laws. This is contrasted with immanence, where a god is said to be fully present in the physical world and thus accessible to creatures in various ways. In religious experience transcendence is a state of being that has overcome the limitations of physical existence and by some definitions has also become independent of it. This is typically manifested in prayer, séance, meditation, psychedelics and paranormal \"visions\".\n\nIt is affirmed in various religious traditions' concept of the divine, which contrasts with the notion of a god (or, the Absolute) that exists exclusively in the physical order (immanentism), or indistinguishable from it (pantheism). Transcendence can be attributed to the divine not only in its being, but also in its knowledge. Thus, a god may transcend both the universe and knowledge (is beyond the grasp of the human mind).\n\nAlthough transcendence is defined as the opposite of immanence, the two are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Some theologians and metaphysicians of various religious traditions affirm that a god is both within and beyond the universe (panentheism); in it, but not of it; simultaneously pervading it and surpassing it.\n\nIn modern philosophy, Immanuel Kant introduced a new term — \"transcendental\", thus instituting a new, third meaning. In his theory of knowledge, this concept is concerned with the condition of possibility of knowledge itself. He also opposed the term \"transcendental\" to the term \"transcendent\", the latter meaning \"that which goes beyond\" (transcends) any possible knowledge of a human being. For him \"transcendental\" meant knowledge about our cognitive faculty with regard to how objects are possible \"a priori\". \"I call all knowledge \"transcendental\" if it is occupied, not with objects, but with the way that we can possibly know objects even before we experience them.\" Therefore, metaphysics, as a fundamental and universal theory, turns out to be an epistemology. Transcendental philosophy, consequently, is not considered a traditional ontological form of metaphysics.\n\nKant also equated \"transcendental\" with that which is \"...in respect of the subject's faculty of cognition.\" Something is transcendental if it plays a role in the way in which the mind \"constitutes\" objects and makes it possible for us to experience them as objects in the first place. Ordinary knowledge is knowledge of objects; transcendental knowledge is knowledge of how it is possible for us to experience those objects as objects. This is based on Kant's acceptance of David Hume's argument that certain general features of objects (e.g. persistence, causal relationships) cannot be derived from the sense impressions we have of them. Kant argues that the mind must contribute those features and make it possible for us to experience objects as objects. In the central part of his \"Critique of Pure Reason\", the \"Transcendental Deduction of the Categories\", Kant argues for a deep interconnection between the ability to have self-consciousness and the ability to experience a world of objects. Through a process of synthesis, the mind generates both the structure of objects and its own unity.\n\nA metaphilosophical question discussed by many Kantian scholars is how transcendental reflection is itself possible. Stephen Palmquist interprets Kant's appeal to faith as his most effective solution to this problem.\n\nFor Kant, the \"transcendent\", as opposed to the \"transcendental\", is that which lies beyond what our faculty of knowledge can legitimately know. Hegel's counter-argument to Kant was that to know a boundary is also to be aware of what it bounds and as such what lies beyond it – in other words, to have already transcended it.\n\nIn phenomenology, the \"transcendent\" is that which transcends our own consciousness: that which is objective rather than only a phenomenon of consciousness. Noema is employed in phenomenology to refer to the terminus of an intention as given for consciousness. \n\nJean-Paul Sartre also speaks of transcendence in his works. In \"Being and Nothingness\", Sartre uses transcendence to describe the relation of the self to the object oriented world, as well as our concrete relations with others. For Sartre, the for-itself is sometimes called a transcendence. Additionally if the other is viewed strictly as an object, much like any other object, then the other is, for the for-itself, a transcendence-transcended. When the for-itself grasps the other in the others world, and grasps the subjectivity that the other has, it is referred to as transcending-transcendence. Thus, Sartre defines relations with others in terms of transcendence.\n\nContemporary transcendental philosophy is developed by German philosopher Harald Holz with a holistic approach. Holz liberated transcendental philosophy from the convergence of neo-Kantianism, he critically discussed transcendental pragmatism and the relation between transcendental philosophy, neo-empiricism and the so-called postmodernism.\n\nIn everyday language, \"transcendence\" means \"going beyond\", and \"self-transcendence\" means going beyond a prior form or state of oneself. Mystical experience is thought of as a particularly advanced state of self-transcendence, in which the sense of a separate self is abandoned. \"Self-transcendence\" is believed to be psychometrically measurable, and (at least partially) inherited, and has been incorporated as a personality dimension in the Temperament and Character Inventory. The discovery of this is described in the book \"The God Gene\" by Dean Hamer, although this has been criticized by commentators such as Carl Zimmer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33020967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33020967", "title": "Ukrainian avant-garde", "text": "Ukrainian avant-garde\n\nThe term \"Ukrainian Avant-Garde\" was first introduced by Parisian art historian Andréi Nakov for the exhibition \"Tatlin's dream\", arranged in London, 1973, where works of international standard by avant-garde Ukrainian artists Vasyl Yermylov and Alexander Bogomazov were presented to the Western audience. Famous artists were mentioned by Nakov, such as Kazimir Malevich, David Burliuk, Vladimir Tatlin, Aleksandra Ekster, who were connected to Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv, Odessa by birth, education, national traditions and identity. The Ukrainian avant-garde artists also include the outstanding Alexander Archipenko, whose art was influenced by impressions of his native land, Trypillya culture, archaic Cuman prairie statues, mosaics of Saint Sophia Cathedral, and St. Michael's reliefs and peasant pottery colours.\n\nAgainst this background, Yermylov's and Bogomazov's appearance was not accidental. The first abstract work appeared here - that was the picture by Wassily Kandinsky on the catalogue cover of \"Izdebsky Salon 2\" (1910). The first international avant-garde exhibitions in the Russian Empire (the same Izdebsky Salon) took place in Odessa and Kiev,and subsequently in St. Petersburg and Riga, where Ukrainians have been the most active participants and instigators\n\n"}
{"id": "18207552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18207552", "title": "Vaginal contraction", "text": "Vaginal contraction\n\nVaginal contractions are contractions of the pelvic muscles surrounding the vagina, especially the pubococcygeus muscle. Vaginal contractions are generally an involuntary muscular response to sexual stimulation, including sexual arousal, and are commonly most intense during sexual stimulation and culminating in orgasm. Though usually an involuntary response, some women can control the muscles of the vagina to perform vaginal contractions at will. Vaginal contractions enhance the sexual experience and pleasure for both parties during sexual intercourse.\n\nIn a 1982 study, pelvic contractions of 11 women who manually self-stimulated to orgasm were monitored using an anal probe and a vaginal probe simultaneously. Near the perceived start of orgasm, a series of regular contractions began in 9 of the women, with anal and vaginal contractions synchronizing with each other. Three of the women's orgasms consistently included only a series of regular contractions; for six other women, orgasms consistently continued beyond the regular series with additional irregular contractions. Two women had no regular contractions during reported orgasms. The women showed marked differences in orgasm duration and the number of contractions. A 1994 study confirmed these results, but concluded that some women experience their orgasm regularly without contractions and some report having contractions during orgasm only occasionally.\n\nVaginal contractions are caused by both the activity of certain brain regions and the release of the hormone oxytocin. It has been suggested that vaginal contractions during orgasm can increase the chances of pregnancy as they transport sperm up the reproductive tract from the vagina to the oviducts, which decreases the distance it has to travel. Additionally, when the woman is fertile sperm is only transported to the side of the dominant ovary.\n\nInvoluntary vaginal contractions may arise from non-sexual causes. Involuntary spasm of the muscles around the vagina, usually caused by anxiety, can result in vaginismus.\n\nVaginal contractions should not be confused with uterine contractions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23852476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23852476", "title": "Vontaze Burfict", "text": "Vontaze Burfict\n\nVontaze DeLeon Burfict Jr. ( ; born September 24, 1990) is an American football player for the Cincinnati Bengals of the National Football League (NFL). He was signed by the Bengals as an undrafted free agent in 2012. He played college football at Arizona State. Burfict has earned a reputation as a dirty player for multiple incidents throughout his career. He has accumulated $4,150,000 in fines and forfeited salary through his career.\n\nBurfict was considered the most highly ranked football prospect Arizona State ever signed to a letter of intent, but had an up-and-down career for the Sun Devils. An All-American in 2010, Burfict was projected an early first round pick for the 2012 NFL Draft on the eve of his junior season. However, a mediocre on-field performance and poor pre-draft workouts deteriorated his draft stock. He went on to have a productive rookie season, starting 14 games and leading the team in tackles.\n\nBurfict attended Centennial High School in Corona, California, where he was part of an undefeated Huskies team that won a CIF title, a state championship with the help of quarterback Taylor Martinez, and was ranked second in the nation by \"USA Today\" in 2008. That year, Burfict led the Huskies with 159 tackles, two quarterback sacks, two interceptions and two fumble recoveries. Burfict participated in the US Army All-American Bowl and was the third-leading tackler for the West team. He also earned numerous All-American honors, including \"Parade\".\n\nAs a junior, Burfict collected a team-high 130 tackles and added four sacks, two interceptions and one fumble recovery. He helped anchor a linebackers unit that included fellow Sun Devils Shelly Lyons and Brandon Magee. Corona Centennial finished the 2007 season as No. 24 on \"USA Today‘s\" Top 25.\n\nBurfict missed almost all of his sophomore season due to academic problems.\n\nHe played in the 2009 U.S. Army All-American Bowl. Considered a five-star recruit by \"Rivals.com\" and \"Scout.com\", Burfict was listed as the No. 1 inside linebacker prospect in the nation.\n\nBurfict originally committed to play for the USC Trojans, but eventually switched to Arizona State on National Signing Day. He joined ASU's 2009 class that included three of his high school teammates. By July 2009, he struggled to meet admission standard based on the NCAA eligibility sliding scale and still had one summer school class to complete. Sun Devils coach Dennis Erickson, who compared Burfict to Ray Lewis, expected him to be academically eligible for enrollment. Burfict did qualify on time for the 2010 football season.\n\nBy midseason, Burfict ranked second in the team with 30 tackles despite starting only three of six games, and had five tackles for a loss, two sacks, and three pass break-ups. \"ESPN\" named him Arizona State's midseason defensive MVP. In a road game against Georgia on September 26, Burfict collected a season-high 11 tackles (three solo) and one and half tackles for loss. He led the Sun Devils in tackles in five games over the course of the season. By the end of the year, he had collected 69 tackles, seven tackles for loss, and a pair of sacks, and was named a Freshman All-American by \"College Football News\", and by the Football Writers Association of America. He was also honored as the Pacific-10 Conference Defensive Freshman of the Year.\n\nAt the start of his sophomore season, Burfict was named First-Team Preseason All-American by \"The Sporting News\". He was also named to the watchlists of the 2010 Rotary Lombardi Award and the Bronko Nagurski Trophy.\n\nOn October 6, 2010, Burfict was benched by Arizona State head coach Dennis Erickson. The reason given was Burfict's unusually high number of personal foul penalties. In a game against Stanford, Burfict was called for grabbing the facemask of Doug Baldwin, and—after complaining to the referee—charged with a personal foul for unsportsmanlike conduct that gave Stanford a first down at the ASU 7. Two plays later, Stanford scored what turned out to be the winning touchdown.\n\nBurfict finished the 2010 season with a team leading 90 tackles, 8.5 for a loss, and two forced fumbles. \"The Sporting News\" selected him to their All-American team, as well as Pacific-10 Defensive MVP. Burfict is ASU's first 1st team All-American since Terrell Suggs.\n\nWith senior cornerback Omar Bolden lost for the season to a knee injury, Burfict was expected to take over as the leader of the Sun Devils defense in 2011, but eventually had a rather inconsistent junior season. Burfict decided to forgo his senior year at Arizona State and entered the 2012 NFL Draft.\n\nWhen he entered his junior season, Burfict was regarded as one of the best linebackers available in the 2012 NFL Draft, projected to go as high as the fifth pick. Problems on and off the field at Arizona State, however, caused his draft stock to plummet. In October 2011, \"Sports Illustrated\"′s Tony Pauline still ranked him as the No. 20 prospect on his midseason draft board, but noted that he has been \"a loose cannon on and off the field, which has raised red flags.\"\n\nBurfict entered the NFL Combine rated as the third best inside linebacker, behind Luke Kuechly and Dont'a Hightower, but his \"disappointing\" performance—including a 5.09 sec in the 40-yard dash, slowest among linebackers—caused some analysts to project him as a third day (Rd. 4-7) draft pick. NFL scouts also faulted him for his interview process, in which he blamed the Arizona State coaching staff for his mediocre junior season. Later it was also reported that Burfict tested positive for marijuana at the combine.\n\nAt the Arizona State pro day on March 16, Burfict had an \"average\" performance by his own estimation. According to \"Sports Illustrated\"s Tony Pauline, Burfict \"looked poorly conditioned and out-of-place in drills\". In their draft coverage, SI.com projected him as 7th round to undrafted. Burfict eventually went undrafted, but was signed by the Cincinnati Bengals as an undrafted free agent.\n\nAn undrafted rookie, Burfict managed to make the Cincinnati Bengals' roster. He played in all 16 games and started 14 of those, finishing the seasons as the Bengals' top tackler with 127 combined tackles, including 18 tackles in their final game of the year against their divisional rival Baltimore Ravens. When Burfict was on field, the Bengals defense allowed 2.4 yards fewer per play, allowing 4.5 compared to 6.9 when he was off the field.\n\nFor incidents that occurred in the 34–30 win over the Green Bay Packers in Week 3 of the 2013 season, Burfict was fined a total of $31,000. He had hit a defenseless receiver (James Jones) and intentionally struck an opponent in the groin (Ryan Taylor).\n\nBurfict finished the 2013 season leading the NFL in tackles with 171, and was the only Bengals defensive player selected to the Pro Bowl. He was the first Bengals linebacker to make the Pro Bowl since Jim LeClair in 1976. Burfict also topped the list for the NFL'Performance-Based Pay' program with earning $299,465.\n\nOn August 20, 2014, Burfict signed a four-year contract extension with the Bengals.\n\nOn October 10, 2014, Panthers tight end Greg Olsen accused Burfict of intentionally trying to injure Olsen and Panthers quarterback Cam Newton by twisting their ankles after the play was over. On October 15, 2014, Burfict was fined $25,000 for twisting ankles on both Newton and Olsen.\n\nOn December 15, 2015, Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger accused Burfict of having intentionally targeted his ankle in the teams' regular season game on December 13. Burfict was fined for the hit a few days later and planned to appeal.\n\nOn January 9, 2016, in the AFC Wild Card Round against the Steelers, Burfict committed a critical penalty with 18 seconds left in the fourth quarter, when the Bengals were leading Pittsburgh 16-15. Ben Roethlisberger had reentered the game, drove from inside his own 10 yard line, and crossed midfield into Bengals territory. The penalty, which was for an illegal hit to the head on Antonio Brown after Brown had converted a 4th and 3 for a 1st down into Bengal territory, which together with a second personal foul by Adam Jones positioned Pittsburgh to kick a go-ahead field goal and win the game, 18-16, and advance to the divisional round against the Denver Broncos. On January 11, the NFL announced that Burfict would be suspended for the first three games of the 2016 season for repeated violations of player safety rules.\n\nAfter serving a suspension of 3 games to begin the season, Burfict started 11 games in 2016. He participated in 101 tackles, 73 of them individually, had two interceptions for 54 yards, and recovered one fumble.\n\nOn August 28, Burfict was suspended for the first five games of the 2017 regular season due to a hit he made on Chiefs fullback Anthony Sherman in the second preseason game. On August 30, he appealed, and his suspension was reduced to three games. On September 7, Burfict signed a three-year extension worth $38.68 million with a $3.3 million signing bonus. During Week 7 against the Steelers, Burfict lunged both his feet in the face mask of Roosevelt Nix before trying to get back up. The scene occurred with 43 seconds of regulation beginning, but no flag was thrown. On October 27, Burfict was fined $12,154. During Week 10 against the Tennessee Titans, Burfict's troubles continued as he committed two personal foul penalties. The first penalty was a late hit on DeMarco Murray, and the other was unsportsmanlike conduct, where he bumped into an official (although camera footage did not show). Burfict was subsequently ejected for the first time in his NFL career, and left by imitating a celebration taunt by Johnny Manziel. Burfict became the victim of a blindside hit by JuJu Smith-Schuster during Monday Night Football against the Steelers in Week 13, being carted off the field with a concussion. Smith-Schuster was suspended for one game for the hit.\n\nOn March 16, 2018, Burfict was suspended for four games due to a PED violation.\nOn October 20, 2018, during the Bengal's week 6 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers, Burfict was fined $112k for an illegal hit on Antonio Brown which sent him into the NFL's concussion protocol and also resulted in a game-ending head injury to his own teammate.\n\nBurfict was born in South Los Angeles. His father, a gang member and convicted cocaine dealer, was incarcerated most of the time and never had a relationship with his son. His mother, a city transit bus driver, initially raised Burfict and his older half-brother DaShan Miller ( 1986) on her own, but eventually remarried and moved to Corona. Like Burfict, Miller was a football player at Corona Centennial High School, and later played college football at UTEP and Akron. Miller was eligible for the 2010 NFL Draft, but he went undrafted.\n\n"}
{"id": "40589651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40589651", "title": "Wax argument", "text": "Wax argument\n\nThe wax argument or the ball of wax example is a thought experiment that René Descartes created within his \"Meditations on First Philosophy\". He devised it to analyze what properties are essential for bodies, show how uncertain our knowledge of the world is compared to our knowledge of our minds, and argue for rationalism.\n\nDescartes first considers all the sensible properties of a ball of wax such as its shape, texture, size, color, and smell. He then points out that all these properties change as the wax is moved closer to a fire. The only properties that necessarily remain are extension, changeability and movability:\n\nThese properties are however not directly perceived through the senses or imagination (the wax can be extended and moved in more ways than can be imagined). Instead to grasp the essence of the wax, it must be done through pure reason:\n\n"}
{"id": "45389374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45389374", "title": "Ütopya", "text": "Ütopya\n\nÜtopya is the Turkish version of the Dutch TV series \"Utopia\", created by John de Mol. The series follows a group of people who attempt to maintain a society in a remote area. The format was bought by Acun Ilıcalı and his television Tv8 began airing \"Ütopya\" on October 30, 2014. Tuncay Kes finished the show as the champion.\n\nThis is the cast of the show on July 22, 2015\n"}
