{"id": "37968612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37968612", "title": "Agnès Cabrol", "text": "Agnès Cabrol\n\nShe graduated from the Ecole du Louvre in 1987, having studied under Christiane Ziegler, Claude Traunecker, and Guillemette Andreu. After graduation from the University of Paris IV, she went on an exhibition in 1991 of the Theban region of the New Kingdom of Egypt, under the direction Professor Nicolas Grimal. For the Franco-Egyptian Centre for the Study of Karnak (CFEETK), at Karnak she collected epigraphic data and made numerous archaeological observations. She also examined the Tomb of Khabekhenet with Claude Traunecker. \nRobyn Adams Gillam notes the work that Cabrol contributed to in the understanding of the temples of the New Kingdom, and her attention to political and religious symbolism. Cabrol obtained a phD from the University of Lille III in 1995, under the direction of Professor Dominique Valbelle, and joined the faculty as a lecturer.\n\nCabrol became an expert on Thebes, and was the author of numerous books and papers, notably \"Amenhotep III: le Magnifique\" (2000), \"Les voies procesionelles de Thèbes\" (2001), and \"Regards sur l'orientalisme et l'égyptologie\" (2006).\n"}
{"id": "24543664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24543664", "title": "Altheim culture", "text": "Altheim culture\n\nAltheim culture (Altheim group) is a Chalcolithic culture that derives its name from the town of Altheim. It is also a subgroup of Lengyel culture. Not defined until 1915 by the German Prehistorian Paul Reinecke after finds from a Causewayed enclosure 1000 m nw of Altheim (Essenbach), Landshut (district), in Lower Bavaria, Southeastern Germany.\n\nThe Altheim culture sites range from the Inn (river) in the East to the Lech (river) in the West and from the Alb hills in the North to the foothills of the Alps in the South.\n\nThe Altheim culture dates to between 3800 and 3400 BC, i.e. the Younger Neolithic of Southern Central Europe, formerly called the Chalcolithic.\n\nContemporaneous phenemona are, to the West Pfyn culture in sw Germany and Switzerland, to the Northwest and North Michelsberg culture, to the East Baalberge group in Bohemia and to the Southeast Mondsee group.\n"}
{"id": "47163602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47163602", "title": "An American Tail (franchise)", "text": "An American Tail (franchise)\n\nAn American Tail is a franchise based on the 1986 animated film of the same name directed by Don Bluth and produced by Sullivan Bluth Studios/Amblin Entertainment.\n\nThe franchise follows the adventures of Fievel Mousekewitz, a Russian-Jewish mouse immigrant to the United States in 1885. The franchise opened up a couple of attractions at Universal Studios Hollywood including \"Fievel's Playland\" and \"An American Tail Show\".\n\n\"An American Tail\" is a 1986 film which follows Fievel and his family as they immigrate from Ukraine to the United States and how he subsequently gets lost and aims to reunite with them.\n\"An American Tail: Fievel Goes West\" is a 1991 western sequel to \"An American Tail\".\n\"An American Tail: The Treasure of Manhattan Island\" is a 1998 direct-to-video sequel. Its subplot became a serious issue, as regarded by Common Sense Media.\n\"An American Tail: The Mystery of the Night Monster\" is a 1999 direct-to-video sequel.\n\n\"An American Tail: The Computer Adventures of Fievel and His Friends\" is a 1993 Microsoft DOS point-and-click adventure game developed by Capstone Software and Manley & Associates, Inc., based on both of the first two \"An American Tail\" movies.\n\"An American Tail: Fievel Goes West\" is a 1994 Super NES video game based on the film of the same name.\n\n\"An American Tail Movie Book\" is a 1998 Interactive storybook for Windows and Macintosh developed by Sound Source Interactive.\n\"An American Tail: Fievel's Gold Rush\" is a 2002 platform game for Game Boy Advance developed by Hokus-Pokus.\n\n\"An American Tail\" is a 2007 platform game for Playstation 2 developed by Data Design Interactive based on the 1986 film of the same name, only released in Europe.\n\n\"Somewhere Out There\" is the theme song of \"An American Tail\", performed by Linda Ronstadt and James Ingram.\n\n\"Dreams to Dream\" is the theme song of \"An American Tail: Fievel Goes West\", performed by Linda Ronstadt.\n\n\"Fievel's American Tails\" is a 1992 spin-off TV series which continued the story of \"An American Tail: Fievel Goes West\".\n\nAn American Tail Theatre was a live stage show based on \"An American Tail: Fievel Goes West\" at various Universal Parks & Resorts theme parks that ran from 1990 to 1992.\n"}
{"id": "3174942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174942", "title": "Ancrene Wisse and Hali Meiðhad", "text": "Ancrene Wisse and Hali Meiðhad\n\n\"Ancrene Wisse and Hali Meiðhad\" is a 1929 essay by J. R. R. Tolkien on the thirteenth century Middle English treatise \"Ancrene Wisse\" (\"The Anchoresses' Rule\") and on the tract on virginity \"Hali Meiðhad\" (\"Holy Maidenhood\"). The essay has been called \"the most perfect of Tolkien's academic pieces\".\n\nIn this essay Tolkien first promulgated the AB language concept.\n\nTolkien and Ker later (in 1962) edited a volume of the text for the Early English Text Society.\n"}
{"id": "53760059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53760059", "title": "Annie Christmas", "text": "Annie Christmas\n\nAnnie Christmas or Keelboat Annie is a character in the folklore and tall tales of Louisiana, described as a 7 foot tall, supernaturally strong African-American woman keelboat captain. She has been described as a female counterpart of the John Henry character, another supernaturally strong African American folklore character. Like John Henry, the character may have been based on a real person. Stories of Annie Christmas have been included in several collections of folktales from the American South.\n\nThe stories describe how she defies traditional gender hierarchies and the rules and expectations for female behaviour. She drinks exorbitant amounts of liquor and dominates men who challenge her authority. She wears a pearl necklace, and each pearl represents the defeat of someone who has unsuccessfully challenged her. Though unmarried, she has twelve sons who work as her crewmen on the keelboat. In one tale of her death she was attacked by 100 men who shot and stabbed her.\n\nThe novel \"1993: Free Enterprise: A Novel of Mary Ellen Pleasant\" by Jamaican Author Michelle Cliff includes a character named Annie Christmas, probably inspired by the folktale character.\n"}
{"id": "9193259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9193259", "title": "Antinous Farnese", "text": "Antinous Farnese\n\nThe Antinous Farnese is a specific marble sculptural representation of Antinous, named after its one-time owners the Farnese family. It was once displayed at the entrance to the Carracci Gallery in the Palazzo Farnese in Rome, from which it was taken to Naples to the Royal Borbonic Museum (Reale Museo Borbonico), now the Naples National Archaeological Museum (a replica was put in place in the Palazzo in the 1970s).\n"}
{"id": "9435603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9435603", "title": "Bay Area Holocaust Oral History Project", "text": "Bay Area Holocaust Oral History Project\n\nThe mission of the Bay Area Holocaust Oral History Project (BAHOHP) is to gather oral life histories of Holocaust survivors, liberators, rescuers, and eyewitnesses. The project is developing and maintaining a catalogue database for public use. Their goal is to provide students, scholars, resource centers on the world, and the general public access to their archives.\n\nBAHOHP seeks to counteract Holocaust denial, and believes that the alarming upsurge of hate crimes and intolerance makes the need to record these stories all the more urgent. The Oral History Project regards recorded personal testimony as a powerful antidote for Holocaust denial.\n\nBAHOHP recently merged with the Holocaust Center of Northern California (HCNC) to form a single organization under the HCNC name. This new organization creates a central resource in Northern California for Holocaust education and remembrance.\n\nLani Silver and R. Ruth Linden* founded the Holocaust Media Project, predecessor of the Bay Area Holocaust Oral History Project, in 1983. They co-directed the project until 1985. Silver was executive director from 1985 to 1997. Since then, the project has been headed by Anne Grenn Saldinger. Today, the project has some 1700 audio and video recordings of survivors, witnesses and children of survivors. In addition, the collection contains close to a thousand transcripts and other materials.\n\n\nBAHOHP gathers a complete life story of the interviewee, focusing on details surrounding the Holocaust. The questions will vary according to the specific experiences of each individual. The interviewer has an advanced degree in psychology or social work and experience conducting survivor interviews.\n\nBAHOHP keeps a copy of each tape and sends the master and a duplicate copy to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. In addition, the interviewee is given a copy of his or her interview at the conclusion of the taping. R. Ruth Linden, Ph.D. donated copies of the original archives (1981–1984) to Yad Vashem, the Holocaust Martyrs' and Heroes' Remembrance Authority in Jerusalem, on 7 September 2007 through the Israeli Consulate in San Francisco.\n\nBAHOHP has agreed to record the memories of SPK, AK, and Warsaw Uprising veterans. The Polish community are delighted to be working with the Jewish community on this project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55833055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55833055", "title": "Bodhisattva statues of Sri Lanka", "text": "Bodhisattva statues of Sri Lanka\n\nAlthough currently a Theravada Buddhism flourishing country, the Mahayana cult of worshipping Bodhisattva statues has existed in ancient Sri Lanka. Archaeological evidences show that Bodhisattva cult had existed as a secondary cult inferior to worship of Buddha during the Anuradhapura period. This can be assumed by the surviving Bodhisattva statues.\n\nDuring the middle Anuradhapura period, Bodhisattva cult became very popular in Sri Lanka. In the early period, Sri Lankan Buddhism was predominantly flourished with Theravāda Buddhist ideas. Later, Mahāyāna aspects were developed. In the Mahayana Buddhism, Bodhisattvas were worshipped with a major significance. During the Anuradhapura period it is mentioned that, King Mahāsēna had built Bodhisattva images. Also King Dhatusena (459–477 CE) had built a statue of Maitreya. Several inscriptions mentioning Avalokitesvara has found from the Anuradhapura period.\n\nDuring 7th–10th centuries AD, Mahayana Buddhism had spread along the Sri Lankan territory. This is evidenced by many surviving Bodhisattva statues and carvings belonging to the period. It is mentioned that King Dappula I of Anuradhapura had built a 15 cubits-high Maitreya image in Ruhuna. This image is believed to be the recently restored Dambegoda Bodhisattva statue. This is an evidence for the strong Maitreya cult in ancient Sri Lanka.\n\nKing Bhuwanekabāhu IV of Gampola has built Maitreya and Nātha (Avalokitesvara) statues in Lankatilaka Vihara. It is mentioned that King Kirti Sri Rajasinghe had built a Maitreya image in Ridi Viharaya. \"Dambulu Viahara thudapatha\", a text dated to1780 CE mentions about some Maitreya and Nātha images of the temple. These images can be seen flanking the standing Buddha near the central entrance of Dambulla cave temple.\n\nBoth male and female Bodhisattva images has found from Sri Lanka. Avalokitesvara images play a significant role among the statuary. Also various statues of Tārā, the wife of Avalokitesvara has found. It is assumed that cult of Tārā may have been popular in ancient Sri Lanka. Images of Maitreya are also common. Statues of Bodhisattvas Vajrapani and Manjushri has found in Sri Lanka.\n\nBronze, stone and ivory has used as the medium to create Bodhisattva images.\n\nThe Veheragala Avalokitesvara Bodhisattva, currently displayed at Colombo National Museum, is considered as the finest Bodhisattva image ever found in Sri Lanka. This bronze statue belonging to Anuradhapura period is delicately designed. Also the Statue of Tara, which is now housed in British Museum is considered as a masterpiece of Sri Lankan art. This image was originally found in Trincomalee district, Sri Lanka. The 33-feet high Dambegoda Avalokitesvara Bodhisattva statue is also famous. Statues of Avalokitesvara, Maitreya, Manjushri and Tara can be seen at Buduruwagala. Kushtharajagala Bodhisattva statue of Weligama is another example for Sri Lankan Bodhisattva images. Another fine Tara image can be seen at Colombo National Museum. This statue of Seated Tara was found from Kurunegala district. It is dated to 8th–9th century AD.\n\n"}
{"id": "52705239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52705239", "title": "Boilerplate clause", "text": "Boilerplate clause\n\nA boilerplate clause is a legal English term that is used in conjunction with contract law. When forming contracts, parties to the contract often use templates or forms with boilerplate clauses (boilerplate language, used as standard language). Such clauses refers to the standardised clauses in contracts, and they are to be found towards the end of the agreement. Including boilerplate clauses is the process by which parties to the contract may better define their relationship and the will to provide certainty if terms in the contract are ever disputed. Boilerplate clauses are standard contractual terms that are routinely included in many contracts. Some of the most common clause types are listed below:\n\nAn assignment clause is based on prohibiting or permitting a complete transfer or rights under the contract to another party.\n\nAn example:\n\nThe transfer may be prohibited or permitted entirely or in part. The example of permitting assignment under specified circumstances is:\n\nAn example:\nThe hulls and freight clauses contain a similar \"assignment clause\" which states that no assignment is binding unless a dated notice of assignment, signed by the assured is endorsed on the policy and the policy is produced before payment of claim or return of premium.\n\nA \"force majeure\" clause is designed to protect against failures to perform contractual obligations caused by unavoidable events beyond a party’s control, such as natural disasters. \"Force majeure\" clauses are primarily used to identify circumstances in which performance of contract may be forgiven\n\nAn example:\n\nA specific boilerplate clause which is stated to forgo taking any dispute that may arise to court. Parties to the contract are to refer the dispute to an arbitrator to reach out-of-court settlement.\n\nAn example: \n\nSeverability clause provides that in the event of one or more provisions of the contract are determined to be unenforceable, the rest of the contract remains in force.\n\nAn example: \n\n"}
{"id": "47106911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47106911", "title": "Ceramic art", "text": "Ceramic art\n\nCeramic art is art made from ceramic materials, including clay. It may take forms including art ware, tile, figurines, sculpture, and tableware. Ceramic art is one of the arts, particularly the visual arts. Of these, it is one of the plastic arts. While some ceramics are considered fine art, as pottery or sculpture, some are considered to be decorative, industrial or applied art objects. Ceramics may also be considered artefacts in archaeology. Ceramic art can be made by one person or by a group of people. In a pottery or ceramic factory, a group of people design, manufacture and decorate the art ware. Products from a pottery are sometimes referred to as \"art pottery\". In a one-person pottery studio, ceramists or potters produce studio pottery.\n\nThe word \"ceramics\" comes from the Greek \"keramikos\" (κεραμικος), meaning \"pottery\", which in turn comes from \"keramos\" (κεραμος) meaning \"potter's clay\". Most traditional ceramic products were made from clay (or clay mixed with other materials), shaped and subjected to heat, and tableware and decorative ceramics are generally still made this way. In modern ceramic engineering usage, ceramics is the art and science of making objects from inorganic, non-metallic materials by the action of heat. It excludes glass and mosaic made from glass \"tesserae\".\n\nThere is a long history of ceramic art in almost all developed cultures, and often ceramic objects are all the artistic evidence left from vanished cultures, like that of the Nok in Africa over 2,000 years ago. Cultures especially noted for ceramics include the Chinese, Cretan, Greek, Persian, Mayan, Japanese, and Korean cultures, as well as the modern Western cultures.\n\nElements of ceramic art, upon which different degrees of emphasis have been placed at different times, are the shape of the object, its decoration by painting, carving and other methods, and the glazing found on most ceramics.\nDifferent types of clay, when used with different minerals and firing conditions, are used to produce earthenware, stoneware, porcelain and bone china (fine china).\n\nChina painting, or porcelain painting is the decoration of glazed porcelain objects such as plates, bowls, vases or statues. The body of the object may be hard-paste porcelain, developed in China in the 7th or 8th century, or soft-paste porcelain (often bone china), developed in 18th-century Europe. The broader term ceramic painting includes painted decoration on lead-glazed earthenware such as creamware or tin-glazed pottery such as maiolica or faience. Typically the body is first fired in a kiln to convert it into a hard porous biscuit. Underglaze decoration may then be applied, followed by ceramic glaze, which is fired so it bonds to the body. The glazed porcelain may then be decorated with overglaze painting and fired again at a lower temperature to bond the paint with the glaze. Decoration may be applied by brush or by stenciling, transfer printing, lithography and screen printing.\n\nSlipware is a type of pottery identified by its primary decorating process where slip is placed onto the leather-hard clay body surface before firing by dipping, painting or splashing. Slip is an aqueous suspension of a clay body, which is a mixture of clays and other minerals such as quartz, feldspar and mica. A coating of white or coloured slip, known as an engobe, can be applied to the article to improve its appearance, to give a smoother surface to a rough body, mask an inferior colour or for decorative effect. Slips or engobes can also be applied by painting techniques, in isolation or in several layers and colours. Sgraffito involves scratching through a layer of coloured slip to reveal a different colour or the base body underneath. Several layers of slip and/or sgraffito can be done while the pot is still in an unfired state. One colour of slip can be fired, before a second is applied, and prior to the scratching or incising decoration. This is particularly useful if the base body is not of the desired colour or texture.\n\nIn sharp contrast to the archaeological usage, in which the term \"terra sigillata\" refers to a whole class of pottery, in contemporary ceramic art, 'terra sigillata' describes only a watery refined slip used to facilitate the burnishing of raw clay surfaces and used to promote carbon smoke effects, in both primitive low temperature firing techniques and unglazed alternative western-style Raku firing techniques. Terra sigillata is also used as a brushable decorative colourant medium in higher temperature glazed ceramic techniques.\n\nStudio pottery is pottery made by amateur or professional artists or artisans working alone or in small groups, making unique items or short runs. Typically, all stages of manufacture are carried out by the artists themselves. Studio pottery includes functional wares such as tableware, cookware and non-functional wares such as sculpture. Studio potters can be referred to as ceramic artists, ceramists, ceramicists or as an artist who uses clay as a medium. Much studio pottery is tableware or cookware but an increasing number of studio potters produce non-functional or sculptural items. Some studio potters now prefer to call themselves ceramic artists, ceramists or simply artists. Studio pottery is represented by potters all over the world.\n\nA tile is a manufactured piece of hard-wearing material such as ceramic, stone, metal, or even glass, generally used for covering roofs, floors, walls, showers, or other objects such as tabletops. Alternatively, tile can sometimes refer to similar units made from lightweight materials such as perlite, wood, and mineral wool, typically used for wall and ceiling applications. In another sense, a \"tile\" is a construction tile or similar object, such as rectangular counters used in playing games (see tile-based game). The word is derived from the French word \"tuile\", which is, in turn, from the Latin word \"tegula\", meaning a roof tile composed of fired clay.\n\nTiles are often used to form wall murals and floor coverings, and can range from simple square tiles to complex mosaics. Tiles are most often made of ceramic, typically glazed for internal uses and unglazed for roofing, but other materials are also commonly used, such as glass, cork, concrete and other composite materials, and stone. Tiling stone is typically marble, onyx, granite or slate. Thinner tiles can be used on walls than on floors, which require more durable surfaces that will resist impacts.\n\nA figurine (a diminutive form of the word \"figure\") is a statuette that represents a human, deity, mythical creature, or animal. Figurines may be realistic or iconic, depending on the skill and intention of the creator. The earliest were made of stone or clay. In ancient Greece, many figurines were made from terracotta (see Greek terracotta figurines). Modern versions are made of ceramic, metal, glass, wood and plastic.\n\nFigurines and miniatures are sometimes used in board games, such as chess, and tabletop role playing games. Old figurines have been used to discount some historical theories, such as the origins of chess.\n\nTableware is the dishes or dishware used for setting a table, serving food and dining. It includes cutlery, glassware, serving dishes and other useful items for practical as well as decorative purposes. Dishes, bowls and cups may be made of ceramic, while cutlery is typically made from metal, and glassware is often made from glass or other non-ceramic materials. The quality, nature, variety and number of objects varies according to culture, religion, number of diners, cuisine and occasion. For example, Middle Eastern, Indian or Polynesian food culture and cuisine sometimes limits tableware to serving dishes, using bread or leaves as individual plates. Special occasions are usually reflected in higher quality tableware.\n\nIn addition to being a material, \"terracotta\" also refers to items made out of this material. In archaeology and art history, \"terracotta\" is often used to describe objects such as statures, and figurines not made on a potter's wheel. A prime example is the Terracotta Army, a collection of man-sized terracotta sculptures depicting the armies of Qin Shi Huang, the first Emperor of China. It is a form of funerary art buried with the emperor in 210209BCE and whose purpose was to protect the emperor in his afterlife.\n\nFrench sculptor Albert-Ernest Carrier-Belleuse made many terracotta pieces, but possibly the most famous is The Abduction of Hippodameia depicting the Greek mythological scene of a centaur kidnapping Hippodameia on her wedding day. American architect Louis Sullivan is well known for his elaborate glazed terracotta ornamentation, designs that would have been impossible to execute in any other medium. Terracotta and tile were used extensively in the town buildings of Victorian Birmingham, England.\n\nThere is a long history of ceramic art in almost all developed cultures, and often ceramic objects are all the artistic evidence left from vanished cultures, like that of the Nok in Africa over 2,000 years ago. Cultures especially noted for ceramics include the Chinese, Cretan, Greek, Persian, Mayan, Japanese, and Korean cultures, as well as the modern Western cultures.\n\nAlthough pottery figurines are found from earlier periods in Europe, the oldest pottery vessels come from East Asia, with finds in China and Japan, then still linked by a land bridge, and some in what is now the Russian Far East, providing several from 20,00010,000BCE, although the vessels were simple utilitarian objects. Xianrendong Cave in Jiangxi province contained pottery fragments that date back to 20,000 years ago.\n\nSome experts believe the first true porcelain was made in the province of Zhejiang in China during the Eastern Han period. Shards recovered from archaeological Eastern Han kiln sites estimated firing temperature ranged from . As far back as 1000 BCE, the so-called \"porcelaneous wares\" or \"proto-porcelain wares\" were made using at least some kaolin fired at high temperatures. The dividing line between the two and \"true porcelain wares\" is not a clear one. Archaeological finds have pushed the dates to as early as the Han Dynasty (206BCE220CE).\n\nUntil the 16th century, small quantities of expensive Chinese porcelain were imported into Europe. From the 16th century onwards attempts were made to imitate it in Europe, including soft-paste and the Medici porcelain made in Florence. None was successful until a recipe for hard-paste porcelain was devised at the Meissen factory in Dresden in 1710. Within a few years, porcelain factories sprung up at Nymphenburg in Bavaria (1754) and Capodimonte in Naples (1743) and many other places, often financed by a local ruler.\n\nEarly pots were made by what is known as the \"coiling\" method, which worked the clay into a long string that wound to form a shape that later made smooth walls. The potter's wheel was probably invented in Mesopotamia by the 4th millennium BCE, but spread across nearly all Eurasia and much of Africa, though it remained unknown in the New World until the arrival of Europeans. Decoration of the clay by incising and painting is found very widely, and was initially geometric, but often included figurative designs from very early on.\n\nSo important is pottery to the archaeology of prehistoric cultures that many are known by names taken from their distinctive, and often very fine, pottery, such as the Linear Pottery culture, Beaker culture, Globular Amphora culture, Corded Ware culture and Funnelbeaker culture, to take examples only from Neolithic Europe (approximately 70001800BCE).\n\nCeramic art has generated many styles from its own tradition, but is often closely related to contemporary sculpture and metalwork. Many times in its history styles from the usually more prestigious and expensive art of metalworking have been copied in ceramics. This can be seen in early Chinese ceramics, such as pottery and ceramic-wares of the Shang Dynasty, in Ancient Roman and Iranian pottery, and Rococo European styles, copying contemporary silverware shapes. A common use of ceramics is for \"pots\" - containers such as bowls, vases and amphorae, as well as other tableware, but figurines have been very widely made.\n\nThe earliest evidence of glazed brick is the discovery of glazed bricks in the Elamite Temple at Chogha Zanbil, dated to the 13th century BCE. Glazed and coloured bricks were used to make low reliefs in Ancient Mesopotamia, most famously the Ishtar Gate of Babylon (), now partly reconstructed in Berlin, with sections elsewhere. Mesopotamian craftsmen were imported for the palaces of the Persian Empire such as Persepolis. The tradition continued, and after the Islamic conquest of Persia coloured and often painted glazed bricks or tiles became an important element in Persian architecture, and from there spread to much of the Islamic world, notably the İznik pottery of Turkey under the Ottoman Empire in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nUsing the lusterware technology, one of the finest examples of medieval Islamic use of ceramics as wall decoration can be seen in the Mosque of Uqba also known as the Great Mosque of kairouan (in Tunisia), the upper part of the mihrab wall is adorned with polychrome and monochrome lusterware tiles; dating from 862-863, these tiles were most probably imported from Mesopotamia.\n\nTransmitted via Islamic Spain, a new tradition of Azulejos developed in Spain and especially Portugal, which by the Baroque period produced extremely large painted scenes on tiles, usually in blue and white. Delftware tiles, typically with a painted design covering only one (rather small) tile, were ubiquitous in the Netherlands and widely exported over Northern Europe from the 16th century on. Several 18th century royal palaces had porcelain rooms with the walls entirely covered in porcelain. Surviving examples include ones at Capodimonte, Naples, the Royal Palace of Madrid and the nearby Royal Palace of Aranjuez. Elaborate tiled stoves were a feature of rooms of the middle and upper-classes in Northern Europe from the 17th to 19th centuries.\n\nThere are several other types of traditional tiles that remain in manufacture, for example the small, almost mosaic, brightly coloured zellige tiles of Morocco. With exceptions, notably the Porcelain Tower of Nanjing, tiles or glazed bricks do not feature largely in East Asian ceramics.\n\nAlthough pottery figurines are found from earlier periods in Europe, the oldest pottery vessels come from East Asia, with finds in China and Japan, then still linked by a land bridge, and some in what is now the Russian Far East, providing several from between 20,000 and 10,000 BCE, although the vessels were simple utilitarian objects. Xianrendong Cave in Jiangxi province contained pottery fragments that date back to 20,000 years ago.\n\nRecent archaeological excavations at Angkor Borei (in southern Cambodia) have recovered a large number of ceramics, some of which probably date back to the prehistoric period. Most of the pottery, however, dates to the pre-Angkorian period and consists mainly of pinkish terracotta pots which were either hand-made or thrown on a wheel, and then decorated with incised patterns.\n\nGlazed wares first appear in the archaeological record at the end of the 9th century at the Roluos temple group in the Angkor region, where green-glazed pot shards have been found. A brown glaze became popular at the beginning of the 11th century and brown-glazed wares have been found in abundance at Khmer sites in northeast Thailand. Decorating pottery with animal forms was a popular style from the 11th to 13th century. Archaeological excavations in the Angkor region have revealed that towards the end of Angkor period production of indigenous pottery declined while there was a dramatic increase in Chinese ceramic imports.\n\nDirect evidence of the shapes of vessels is provided by scenes depicted on bas-reliefs at Khmer temples, which also offer insight into domestic and ritualistic uses of the wares. The wide range of utilitarian shapes suggest the Khmers used ceramics in their daily life for cooking, food preservation, carrying and storing liquids, as containers for medicinal herbs, perfumes and cosmetics.\n\nThere is Chinese porcelain from the late Eastern Han period (100200CE), the Three Kingdoms period (220280CE), the Six Dynasties period (220589CE), and thereafter. China in particular has had a continuous history of large-scale production, with the Imperial factories usually producing the best work. The Tang Dynasty (618 to 906CE) is especially noted for grave goods figures of humans, animals and model houses, boats and other goods, excavated (usually illegally) from graves in large numbers.\n\nThe Imperial porcelain of the Song Dynasty (960–1279), featuring very subtle decoration shallowly carved by knife in the clay, is regarded by many authorities as the peak of Chinese ceramics, though the large and more exuberantly painted ceramics of the Ming Dynasty (13681644) have a wider reputation.\n\nChinese emperors gave ceramics as diplomatic gifts on a lavish scale, and the presence of Chinese ceramics no doubt aided the development of related traditions of ceramics in Japan and Korea in particular.\n\nThe earliest Japanese pottery was made around the 11th millennium BCE. Jōmon ware emerged in the 6th millennium BCE and the plainer Yayoi style in about the 4th century BCE. This early pottery was soft earthenware, fired at low temperatures. The potter's wheel and a kiln capable of reaching higher temperatures and firing stoneware appeared in the 3rd or 4th centuries CE, probably brought from China via the Korean peninsula. In the 8th century, official kilns in Japan produced simple, green lead-glazed earthenware. Unglazed stoneware was used as funerary jars, storage jars and kitchen pots up to the 17th century. Some of the kilns improved their methodsmil From the 11th to the 16th century, Japan imported much porcelain from China and some from Korea. The Japanese overlord Toyotomi Hideyoshi's attempts to conquer China in the 1590s were dubbed the \"Ceramic Wars\" [citation needed] the emigration of Korean potters appeared to be a major cause. One of these potters, Yi Sam-pyeong, discovered the raw material of porcelain in Arita and produced first true porcelain in Japan.\n\nIn the 17th century, conditions in China drove some of its potters into Japan, bringing with them the knowledge to make refined porcelain. From the mid-century, the Dutch East India Company began to import Japanese porcelain into Europe. At this time, Kakiemon wares were produced at the factories of Arita, which had much in common with the Chinese Famille Verte style. The superb quality of its enamel decoration was highly prized in the West and widely imitated by the major European porcelain manufacturers. In 1971 it was declared an important \"intangible cultural treasure\" by the Japanese government.\n\nIn the 20th century, interest in the art of the village potter was revived by the Mingei folk movement led by potters Shoji Hamada, Kawai Kajiro and others. They studied traditional methods in order to preserve native wares that were in danger of disappearing. Modern masters use ancient methods to bring pottery and porcelain to new heights of achievement at Shiga, Iga, Karatsu, Hagi, and Bizen. A few outstanding potters were designated living cultural treasures (\"mukei bunkazai\" 無形文化財). In the old capital of Kyoto, the Raku family continued to produce the rough tea bowls that had so delighted connoisseurs. At Mino, potters continued to reconstruct the classic formulas of Momoyama-era Seto-type tea wares of Mino, such as Oribe ware. By the 1990s many master potters worked away from ancient kilns and made classic wares in all parts of Japan.\n\nKorean pottery has had a continuous tradition since simple earthenware from about 8000 BCE. Styles have generally been a distinctive variant of Chinese, and later Japanese, developments. The ceramics of the Goryeo Dynasty (918–1392) and early Joseon white porcelain of the following dynasty are generally regarded as the finest achievements.\n\nFrom the 8th to 18th centuries, glazed ceramics was important in Islamic art, usually in the form of elaborate pottery, developing on vigorous Persian and Egyptian pre-Islamic traditions in particular. Tin-opacified glazing was developed by the Islamic potters, the first examples found as blue-painted ware in Basra, dating from about the 8th century. The Islamic world had contact with China, and increasingly adapted many Chinese decorative motifs. Persian wares gradually relaxed Islamic restrictions on figurative ornament, and painted figuratives scenes became very important.\n\nStoneware was also an important craft in Islamic pottery, produced throughout Iraq and Syria by the 9th century. Pottery was produced in Raqqa, Syria, in the 8th century. Other centers for innovative ceramics in the Islamic world were Fustat (near modern Cairo) from 975 to 1075, Damascus from 1100 to around 1600 and Tabriz from 1470 to 1550.\n\nThe albarello form, a type of maiolica earthenware jar originally designed to hold apothecaries' ointments and dry drugs, was first made in the Islamic Middle East. It was brought to Italy by Hispano-Moresque traders; the earliest Italian examples were produced in Florence in the 15th century.\n\nIznik pottery, made in western Anatolia, is highly decorated ceramics whose heyday was the late 16th century under the Ottoman sultans. Iznik vessels were originally made in imitation of Chinese porcelain, which was highly prized. Under Süleyman the Magnificent (1520–66), demand for Iznik wares increased. After the conquest of Constantinople in 1453, the Ottoman sultans started a programme of building, which used large quantities of Iznik tiles. The Sultan Ahmed Mosque in Istanbul (built 1609–16) alone contains 20,000 tiles and tiles were used extensively in the Topkapi Palace (commenced 1459). As a result of this demand, tiles dominated the output of the Iznik potteries.\n\nThe earliest known ceramic objects are the Gravettian figurines from the Upper Paleolithic period, such as those discovered at Dolní Věstonice in the modern-day Czech Republic. The Venus of Dolní Věstonice (Věstonická Venuše in Czech) is a statuette of a nude female figure dating from some time from 29,00025,000 BCE. It was made by moulding and then firing a mixture of clay and powdered bone. Similar objects in various media found throughout Europe and Asia and dating from the Upper Paleolithic period have also been called Venus figurines. Scholars are not agreed as to their purpose or cultural significance.\n\nGlazed Egyptian faience dates to the third millennium BCE), with painted but unglazed pottery used even earlier during the predynastic Naqada culture. Faience became sophisticated and produced on a large scale, using moulds as well modelling, and later also throwing on the wheel. Several methods of glazing were developed, but colours remained largely limited to a range in the blue-green spectrum.\n\nOn the Greek island of Santorini are some of the earliest finds created by the Minoans dating to the third millennium BCE, with the original settlement at Akrotiri dating to the fourth millennium BCE; excavation work continues at the principal archaeological site of Akrotiri. Some of the excavated homes contain huge ceramic storage jars known as \"pithoi\".\n\nAncient Greek and Etruscan ceramics are renowned for their figurative painting, especially in the black-figure and red-figure styles. Moulded Greek terracotta figurines, especially those from Tanagra, were small figures, often religious but later including many of everyday genre figures, apparently used purely for decoration.\n\nAncient Roman pottery, such as Samian ware, was rarely as fine, and largely copied shapes from metalwork, but was produced in enormous quantities, and is found all over Europe and the Middle East, and beyond. Monte Testaccio is a waste mound in Rome made almost entirely of broken amphorae used for transporting and storing liquids and other products. Few vessels of great artistic interest have survived, but there are very many small figures, often incorporated into oil lamps or similar objects, and often with religious or erotic themes (or both together – a Roman speciality). The Romans generally did not leave grave goods, the best source of ancient pottery, but even so they do not seem to have had much in the way of luxury pottery, unlike Roman glass, which the elite used with gold or silver tableware. The more expensive pottery tended to use relief decoration, often moulded, rather than paint. Especially in the Eastern Empire, local traditions continued, hybridizing with Roman styles to varying extents.\n\nTin-glazed pottery, or faience, originated in Iraq in the 9th century, from where it spread to Egypt, Persia and Spain before reaching Italy in the Renaissance, Holland in the 16th century and England, France and other European countries shortly after. Important regional styles in Europe include: Hispano-Moresque, maiolica, Delftware, and English Delftware. By the High Middle Ages the Hispano-Moresque ware of Al-Andaluz was the most sophisticated pottery being produced in Europe, with elaborate decoration. It introduced tin-glazing to Europe, which was developed in the Italian Renaissance in maiolica. Tin-glazed pottery was taken up in the Netherlands from the 16th to the 18th centuries, the potters making household, decorative pieces and tiles in vast numbers, usually with blue painting on a white ground. Dutch potters took tin-glazed pottery to the British Isles, where it was made between about 1550 and 1800. In France, tin-glaze was begun in 1690 at Quimper in Brittany, followed in Rouen, Strasbourg and Lunéville. The development of white, or near white, firing bodies in Europe from the late 18th century, such as Creamware by Josiah Wedgwood and porcelain, reduced the demand for Delftware, faience and majolica. Today, tin oxide usage in glazes finds limited use in conjunction with other, lower cost opacifying agents, although it is generally restricted to specialist low temperature applications and use by studio potters, including Picasso who produced pottery using tin glazes.\n\nUntil the 16th century, small quantities of expensive Chinese porcelain were imported into Europe. From the 16th century onwards attempts were made to imitate it in Europe, including soft-paste and the Medici porcelain made in Florence. In 1712, many of the elaborate Chinese porcelain manufacturing secrets were revealed throughout Europe by the French Jesuit father Francois Xavier d'Entrecolles and soon published in the \"Lettres édifiantes et curieuses de Chine par des missionnaires jésuites\" After much experimentation, a recipe for hard-paste porcelain was devised at the Meissen porcelain factory in Dresden soon after 1710, and was on sale by 1713. Within a few decades, porcelain factories sprung up at Nymphenburg in Bavaria (1754) and Capodimonte in Naples (1743) and many other places, often financed by a local ruler.\n\nSoft-paste porcelain was made at Rouen in the 1680s, but the first important production was at St.Cloud, letters-patent being granted in 1702. The Duc de Bourbon established a soft-paste factory, the Chantilly porcelain, in the grounds of his Château de Chantilly in 1730; a soft-paste factory was opened at Mennecy; and the Vincennes factory was set up by workers from Chantilly in 1740, moving to larger premises at Sèvres in 1756. The superior soft-paste made at Sèvres put it in the leading position in Europe in the second half of the 18th century. The first soft-paste in England was demonstrated in 1742, apparently based on the Saint-Cloud formula. In 1749 a patent was taken out on the first bone china, subsequently perfected by Josiah Spode. The main English porcelain makers in the 18th century were at Chelsea, Bow, St James's, Bristol, Derby and Lowestoft.\n\nPorcelain was ideally suited to the energetic Rococo curves of the day. The products of these early decades of European porcelain are generally the most highly regarded, and expensive. The Meissen modeler Johann Joachim Kaendler and Franz Anton Bustelli of Nymphenburg are perhaps the most outstanding ceramic artists of the period. Like other leading modelers, they trained as sculptors and produced models from which moulds were taken.\n\nBy the end of the 18th century owning porcelain tableware and decorative objects had become obligatory among the prosperous middle-classes of Europe, and there were factories in most countries, many of which are still producing. As well as tableware, early European porcelain revived the taste for purely decorative figures of people or animals, which had also been a feature of several ancient cultures, often as grave goods. These were still being produced in China as blanc de Chine religious figures, many of which had reached Europe. European figures were almost entirely secular, and soon brightly and brilliantly painted, often in groups with a modelled setting, and a strong narrative element (see picture).\n\nFrom the 17th century, Stoke-on-Trent in North Staffordshire emerged as a major centre of pottery making. Important contributions to the development of the industry were made by the firms of Wedgwood, Spode, Royal Doulton and Minton.\n\nThe local presence of abundant supplies of coal and suitable clay for earthenware production led to the early but at first limited development of the local pottery industry. The construction of the Trent and Mersey Canal allowed the easy transportation of china clay from Cornwall together with other materials and facilitated the production of creamware and bone china. Other production centres had a lead in the production of high quality wares but the preeminence of North Staffordshire was brought about by methodical and detailed research and a willingness to experiment carried out over many years, initially by one man, Josiah Wedgwood. His lead was followed by other local potters, scientists and engineers.\n\nWedgwood is credited with the industrialization of the manufacture of pottery. His work was of very high quality: when visiting his workshop, if he saw an offending vessel that failed to meet with his standards, he would smash it with his stick, exclaiming, \"This will not do for Josiah Wedgwood!\" He was keenly interested in the scientific advances of his day and it was this interest that underpinned his adoption of its approach and methods to revolutionize the quality of his pottery. His unique glazes began to distinguish his wares from anything else on the market. His matt finish jasperware in two colours was highly suitable for the Neoclassicism of the end of the century, imitating the effects of Ancient Roman carved gemstone cameos like the Gemma Augustea, or the cameo glass Portland Vase, of which Wedgwood produced copies.\n\nHe also is credited with perfecting transfer-printing, first developed in England about 1750. By the end of the century this had largely replaced hand-painting for complex designs, except at the luxury end of the market, and the vast majority of the world's decorated pottery uses versions of the technique to the present day.The perfecting of underglaze transfer printing is widely credited to Josiah Spode the first. The process had been used as a development from the processes used in book printing, and early paper quality made a very refined detail in the design incapable of reproduction, so early print patterns were rather lacking in subtltey of tonal variation. The development of machine made thinner printing papers around 1804 allowed the engravers to use a much wider variety of tonal techniques which became capable of being reproduced on the ware, much more successfully.\n\nFar from perfecting underglaze print Wedgwood was persuaded by his painters not to adopt underglaze printing until it became evident that Mr Spode was taking away his business through competitive pricing for a much more heavily decorated high quality product.\n\nStoke-on-Trent's supremacy in pottery manufacture nurtured and attracted a large number of ceramic artists including Clarice Cliff, Susie Cooper, Lorna Bailey, Charlotte Rhead, Frederick Hurten Rhead and Jabez Vodrey.\n\nStudio pottery is made by artists working alone or in small groups, producing unique items or short runs, typically with all stages of manufacture carried out by one individual. It is represented by potters all over the world but has strong roots in Britain, with potters such as Bernard Leach, William Staite Murray, Dora Billington, Lucie Rie and Hans Coper. Bernard Leach (1887–1979) established a style of pottery influenced by Far-Eastern and medieval English forms. After briefly experimenting with earthenware, he turned to stoneware fired to high temperatures in large oil- or wood-burning kilns. This style dominated British studio pottery in the mid-20th-century. The Austrian refugee Lucie Rie (1902–1995) has been regarded as essentially a modernist who experimented with new glaze effects on often brightly coloured bowls and bottles. Hans Coper (1920–1981) produced non-functional, sculptural and unglazed pieces. After the Second World War, studio pottery in Britain was encouraged by the wartime ban on decorating manufactured pottery and the modernist spirit of the Festival of Britain. The simple, functional designs chimed in with the modernist ethos. Several potteries were formed in response to this fifties boom, and this style of studio pottery remained popular into the nineteen-seventies. Elizabeth Fritsch (1940-) took up ceramics working under Hans Coper at the Royal College of Art (1968–1971). Fritsch was one of a group of outstanding ceramicists who emerged from the Royal College of Art at that time. Fritschs' ceramic vessels broke away from traditional methods and she developed a hand built flattened coil technique in stoneware smoothed and refined into accurately profiled forms. They are then hand painted with dry matt slips, in colours unusual for ceramics.\n\nGerman pottery has its roots in the alchemistry laboratories searching for gold production.\n\nIn 1718 a pottery was founded in Vienna.\n\nThe Imperial Porcelain Manufacture was founded in 1744 in Oranienbaum, Russia. It was based on the invention of porcelain by D. I. Winogradow (independent from Böttgers invention 1708, Dresden). An important collection of antique porcelain is preserved in the Russian Museum of Ceramics.\n\nThe people in North, Central, and South America continents had a wide variety of pottery traditions before Europeans arrived. The oldest ceramics known in the Americasmade from 5,000 to 6,000 years agoare found in the Andean region, along the Pacific coast of Ecuador at Valdivia and Puerto Hormiga, and in the San Jacinto Valley of Colombia; objects from 3,800 to 4,000 years old have been discovered in Peru. Some archaeologists believe that ceramics know-how found its way by sea to Mesoamerica, the second great cradle of civilization in the Americas.\n\nThe best-developed styles found in the central and southern Andes are the ceramics found near the ceremonial site at Chavín de Huántar (800400BCE) and Cupisnique (1000400BCE). During the same period, another culture developed on the southern coast of Peru, in the area called Paracas. The Paracas culture (600100BCE) produced marvelous works of embossed ceramic finished with a thick oil applied after firing. This colorful tradition in ceramics and textiles was followed by the Nazca culture (1600CE), whose potters developed improved techniques for preparing clay and for decorating objects, using fine brushes to paint sophisticated motifs. In the early stage of Nazca ceramics, potters painted realistic characters and landscapes.\n\nThe Moche cultures (1800CE) that flourished on the northern coast of modern Peru produced modelled clay sculptures and effigies decorated with fine lines of red on a beige background. Their pottery stands out for its huacos portrait vases, in which human faces are shown expressing different emotionshappiness, sadness, anger, melancholyas well for its complicated drawings of wars, human sacrifices, and celebrations.\n\nThe Maya were relative latecomers to ceramic development, as their ceramic arts flourished in the Maya Classic Period, or the 2nd to 10th century. One important site in southern Belize is known as Lubaantun, that boasts particularly detailed and prolific works. As evidence of the extent to which these ceramic art works were prized, many specimens traced to Lubaantun have been found at distant Maya sites in Honduras and Guatemala. Furthermore, the current Maya people of Lubaantun continue to hand produce copies of many of the original designs found at Lubaantun.\n\nIn the United States, the oldest pottery dates to 2500BCE. It has been found in the Timucuan Ecological and Historic Preserve in Jacksonville, Florida, and some slightly older along the Savannah River in Georgia.\n\nThe Hopi in Northern Arizona and several other Puebloan peoples including the Taos, Acoma, and Zuñi people (all in the Southwestern United States) are renowned for painted pottery in several different styles. Nampeyo and her relatives created pottery that became highly sought after beginning in the early 20th century. Pueblo tribes in the state of New Mexico have styles distinctive to each of the various pueblos (villages). They include Santa Clara Pueblo, Taos Pueblo, Hopi Pueblos, San Ildefonso Pueblo, Acoma Pueblo and Zuni Pueblo, amongst others. Some of the renowned artists of Pueblo pottery include: Nampeyo, Elva Nampeyo, and Dextra Quotskuyva of the Hopi; Leonidas Tapia of San Juan Pueblo; and Maria Martinez and Julian Martinez of San Ildefonso Pueblo. In the early 20th century Martinez and her husband Julian rediscovered the method of creating traditional San Ildefonso Pueblo Black-on Black pottery.\n\nMexican ceramics are an ancient tradition. Precolumbian potters built up their wares with pinching, coiling, or hammer-an-anvil methods and, instead of using glaze, burnished their pots.\n\nThere is a strong tradition of studio artists working in ceramics in the United States. It had a period of growth in the 1960s and continues to present times. Many fine art, craft, and contemporary art museums have pieces in their permanent collections. Beatrice Wood was an American artist and studio potter located in Ojai, California. She developed a unique form of luster-glaze technique, and was active from the 1930s to her death in 1998 at 105 years old. Robert Arneson created larger sculptural work, in an abstracted representational style. There are ceramics arts departments at many colleges, universities, and fine arts institutes in the United States.\n\nPottery in Sub-Saharan Africa is traditionally made by coiling and is fired at low temperature. The figurines of the ancient Nok culture, whose function remains unclear, are an example of high-quality figural work, found in many cultures, such as the Benin of Nigeria.\n\nIn the Aïr Region of Niger (West Africa) (Haour 2003) pottery dating from around 10,000 BCE was excavated.\n\nLadi Kwali, a Nigerian potter who worked in the Gwari tradition, made large pots decorated with incised patterns. Her work is an interesting hybrid of traditional African with western studio pottery. Magdalene Odundo is a Kenyan-born British studio potter whose ceramics are hand built and burnished.\n\nA ceramics museum is a museum wholly or largely devoted to ceramics, normally ceramic artworks, whose collections may include glass and enamel as well, but will usually concentrate on pottery, including porcelain. Most national ceramics collections are in a more general museum covering all the arts, or just the decorative arts, but there are a number of specialized ceramics museums, some concentrating on the production of just one country, region or manufacturer. Others have international collections, which may concentrate on ceramics from Europe or East Asia, or have global coverage.\n\nIn Asian and Islamic countries ceramics are usually a strong feature of general and national museums. Also most specialist archaeological museums, in all countries, have large ceramics collections, as pottery is the commonest type of archaeological artifact. Most of these are broken shards however.\n\nOutstanding major ceramics collections in general museums include The Palace Museum, Beijing, with 340,000 pieces, and the National Palace Museum in Taipei city, Taiwan (25,000 pieces); both are mostly derived from the Chinese Imperial collection, and are almost entirely of pieces from China. In London, the Victoria and Albert Museum (over 75,000 pieces, mostly after 1400 CE) and British Museum (mostly before 1400 CE) have very strong international collections. The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and Freer Gallery of Art in Washington DC (12,000, all East Asian) have perhaps the best of the many fine collections in the large city museums of the United States. The Corning Museum of Glass, in Corning, New York, has more than 45,000 glass objects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1702140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1702140", "title": "Charles Wycliffe Goodwin", "text": "Charles Wycliffe Goodwin\n\nCharles Wycliffe Goodwin (1817–1878) was an English Egyptologist, bible scholar, lawyer and judge. His last judicial position was as Acting Chief Judge of the British Supreme Court for China and Japan.\n\nGoodwin was born in 1817 in King's Lynn, Norfolk. He studied at St Catharine's College, Cambridge and graduated, in 1838, 6th Classic and senior optime in Mathematics. He became a fellow of the College. He was called to the bar at Lincoln's Inn in 1843. He lost his fellowship of St Catharine's in 1847.\n\nThe first papyrus publication has been credited to Goodwin, who published for the Cambridge Antiquarian Society, one of the Papyri Graecae Magicae V, translated into English with commentary in 1853. In 1860 he wrote one of the articles in \"Essays and Reviews\", to which he was the only lay contributor, writing alongside such great theologians as Rowland Williams and Henry Bristow Wilson.\n\nIn a speech, \"The Growth and Nature of Egyptology: an inaugural lecture\" by Stephen Ranulph Kingdon Glanville, Glanville said of Goodwin:\n\n\"By the time Goodwin left Cambridge, he was a first class Greek scholar, an accomplished Hebraist, and an authority on Anglo-Saxon with valuable editions of new texts to his credit. He also had a considerably knowledge of natural history, especially geology. In London, where his practice was not large, he wrote music and art criticism; was for a time editor of \"Literary Gazette\"; was the only layman among the seven contributors to the much talked of \"Essays and Reviews\" (1860); and, because of his Greek and Hebrew scholarship, was frequently consulted by the Revisers of the New Testament. But throughout his life, his main interest, begun when he was at school was in the elucidation of Ancient Egyptian and Coptic texts, more especially those Egyptian texts written in the cursive script called hieratic.\n\nIn London, he spent much of his time in the British Museum, copying papyri. He was in close touch with Samuel Birch, then Keeper of the Oriental Department and was constantly exchanging information by correspondence with other leading Egyptologists of his day.\"\n\nGoodwin was appointed Assistant Judge of the British Supreme Court for China and Japan in 1865 on the founding of the court. Sir Edmund Hornby was appointed the Chief Judge. The British Supreme Court for China and Japan exercised jurisdiction over British Subjects in China and Japan pursuant to extraterritorial rights granted under treaties with China and Japan. The Court was also an appellate court from British consular courts in China and Japan.\n\nGoodwin served as assistant judge to Sir Edmund Hornby. Goodwin was based in Shanghai until 1874. In that year he moved to Yokohama where he was based until early 1877 when he returned to Shanghai. Goodwin became Acting Chief Judge in 1876 after Edmund Hornby retired.\n\nGoodwin died in Shanghai in 1878. He was buried in the Shanghai Cemetery in Shanghai. The Shanghai Cemetery was later renamed the Pahsienjao Cemetery (八仙桥公墓). It is now Huaihai Park ().\n\nA bust of Goodwin was placed as part of the memorial to Auguste-Edouard Mariette at Cairo Museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33081944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33081944", "title": "Crystal skulls in popular culture", "text": "Crystal skulls in popular culture\n\nThe crystal skulls are a number of human skull hardstone carvings made of clear or milky quartz rock, known in art history as \"rock crystal\". They are often claimed to be pre-Columbian Mesoamerican artifacts by their alleged finders, however, none of the specimens made available for scientific study have been authenticated as pre-Columbian in origin. Despite some claims presented in an assortment of popularizing literature, legends of crystal skulls with mystical powers do not figure in genuine Mesoamerican or other Native American mythologies and spiritual accounts.\n\nThe skulls are often claimed to exhibit paranormal phenomena by some members of the New Age movement, and have often been portrayed as such in fiction. Crystal skulls have been a popular subject appearing in numerous sci-fi television series, novels, and video games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4848238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848238", "title": "David Levering Lewis", "text": "David Levering Lewis\n\nDavid Levering Lewis (born May 25, 1936) is an American Historian; he is the Julius Silver University Professor, and the Professor of History at New York University. He is twice winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography, for part one and part two of his biography of W. E. B. Du Bois (in 1994 and 2001, respectively). He is the first author to win Pulitzer Prizes for biography for two successive volumes on the same subject.\n\nThe author of eight books and editor of two more, Lewis concentrates on comparative history with special focus on twentieth-century United States social history and civil rights. His interests include nineteenth-century Africa, twentieth-century France, and Islamic Spain.\n\nLewis was born in 1936 in Little Rock, Arkansas to a middle-class African-American family. His father John Henry Lewis, Sr. had graduated from Morris Brown College in Atlanta, and went on to Yale Divinity School, becoming its first African-American graduate. He also earned an M.A. in sociology from the University of Chicago. He became principal of Dunbar Junior and Senior High School and Junior College in Little Rock. Lewis' mother taught high school math in the school.\n\nWhile the family lived in Little Rock, the young Lewis attended parochial school. Lewis attended Wilberforce Preparatory School and Xenia High School after his father became Dean of the Theological School at Wilberforce University in Wilberforce, Ohio.\n\nWhen the family moved to Atlanta after his father became President of Morris Brown College, Lewis attended Booker T. Washington High School in his junior year. He gained early admission at age fifteen to Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1956.\n\nLewis briefly attended the University of Michigan Law School but left to attend Columbia University, where he earned his M.A. in history in 1959. He went to the London School of Economics for his doctorate, earning his Ph.D. in 1962 in modern European and French history.\n\nIn 1961-1962, Lewis served in the United States Army as a psychiatric technician and private first class in Landstuhl, Germany.\n\nLewis has three children from his first marriage.\n\nIn 1963, Lewis lectured at the University of Ghana on medieval African history. After returning to the United States, Lewis taught at Morgan State University, the University of Notre Dame, Howard University, and the University of the District of Columbia from 1970 to 1980 as associate and full professor. Lewis was professor of history at University of California at San Diego from 1980 to 1984.\n\nIn 1985, Lewis joined Rutgers University as the Martin Luther King Jr. Professor of History, where he wrote his Pulitzer Prize-winning two volume-biography of W. E. B. Du Bois and finished writing \"The Race to Fashoda: European Colonialism and African Resistance in the Scramble for Africa\" during his 18-year tenure.\n\nIn spring semester 2001, Lewis served as distinguished visiting professor in Harvard's history department.\n\nIn 2003, Lewis was appointed and currently serves as the Julius Silver University Professor and Professor of History at New York University.\n\nHe has received fellowships from the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, the National Humanities Center, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation, the American Philosophical Society, and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation.\n\nLewis is the author of the first academic biography of Martin Luther King, Jr., which was published in 1970, less than two years after the subject's assassination. His \"Prisoners of Honor: The Dreyfus Affair\" was published in 1974; \"The Bicentennial History of the District of Columbia\" was published in 1976; and \"When Harlem Was in Vogue\" in 1980. Lewis wrote his Pulitzer Prize-winning two volume-biography of W. E. B. Du Bois during his 18-year tenure at Rutgers.\n\nBesides the two Pulitzer Prizes for his volumes on W. E. B. Du Bois, published in 1994 and 2001, Lewis in 1994 won the Bancroft Prize and the Francis Parkman Prize for his first volume. In 2001 he also won the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award for his second volume on Du Bois, published that year.\n\nHe is a former trustee of the National Humanities Center, former commissioner of the National Portrait Gallery, and a former senator of Phi Beta Kappa.\n\nLewis appeared as a historical expert in the 1999 film \"\", directed by Ric Burns for PBS. He was president of the Society of American Historians in 2002, and is a board member of the magazine \"The Crisis\", published by the NAACP. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. He was an Ellen Maria Gorrissen Fellow at the American Academy in Berlin, Germany, in spring 2008. President Barack Obama awarded him the 2009 National Humanities Medal at the White House on February 25, 2010. Lewis delivered the inaugural convocation lecture on September 19, 2010 at New York University Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23171331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23171331", "title": "Dónall Mac Giolla Easpaig", "text": "Dónall Mac Giolla Easpaig\n\nDónall Mac Giolla Easpaig, M.A., is the former Chief Placenames Officer in the Placenames Branch in the Department of Community, Equality and Gaeltacht Affairs (\"An Roinn Gnóthaí Pobail, Comhionannais agus Gaeltachta\") in Ireland. He is a leading authority on Irish placenames.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "75525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75525", "title": "Eleanor cross", "text": "Eleanor cross\n\nThe Eleanor crosses were a series of twelve lavishly decorated stone monuments topped with tall crosses, of which three survive nearly intact, in a line down part of the east of England. King Edward I had the crosses erected between 1291 and 1294 in memory of his wife Eleanor of Castile, marking the nightly resting-places along the route taken when her body was transported to London. Several artists worked on the crosses, as the \"Expense Rolls\" of the Crown show, with some of the work being divided between the main figures, sent from London, and the framework, made locally. \"Alexander of Abingdon\" and \"William of Ireland\", both of whom had worked at Westminster Abbey, were apparently the leading sculptors of figures.\n\nUpon her death in 1290 at Harby, near the city of Lincoln, the body of Queen Eleanor was carried to Lincoln where she was embalmed, probably either at the Gilbertine priory of St Catherine, Lincoln in the south of Lincoln, or at the priory of the Dominicans. Her viscera, less her heart, were sent to the Angel Choir of Lincoln Cathedral for burial, where they still rest. Her body was then sent to London, taking 12 days to reach Westminster Abbey. The crosses were erected at the places where her funeral procession stopped overnight.\n\nAt Westminster she was buried at the feet of her father-in-law King Henry III. Her heart travelled with the body and was buried in the abbey church at the London Dominicans' priory at Blackfriars, along with that of her young son Alphonso, Earl of Chester.\n\nA similar event had taken place in France for the body of King Louis IX in 1271, although his memorial crosses, unlike Eleanor's, were erected in part as a manifesto for canonisation; Edward had probably seen similar memorial crosses in France and elsewhere in Europe during his travels. They were at least in part intended as cenotaphs to provoke prayers for her soul from passers-by and pilgrims\n\nThe only three crosses still standing are those at Geddington, Hardingstone, just outside Northampton, and Waltham Cross, although remnants of the lost ones can also be seen at other sites.\n\nThe only remaining piece of the Lincoln Eleanor cross is in the grounds of Lincoln Castle. The cross originally stood at St Catherine's, an area at the end of Lincoln's High Street.\n\nNo part survives of the Grantham Cross in Lincolnshire, though the records of the 18th-century antiquary, William Stukeley, suggest that it featured Eleanor's coats of arms.\n\nOnly a small marble fragment survives of the Stamford Cross in Lincolnshire, a carved rose excavated by William Stukeley. Following the closure of Stamford Museum, the carved fragment is displayed in the Discover Stamford area at the town's library. Stukeley's sketch of the top portion of the Stamford Cross, which suggests that it stylistically resembled the Geddington Cross, is preserved in his diaries in the Bodleian Library in Oxford. See below for the modern monument erected by the Smith of Derby Group.\n\nStill standing, the Geddington Cross in Northamptonshire is the best-preserved of the three survivors. It is unique among the surviving crosses in having a triangular plan, and a taller and more slender profile with a lower tier entirely covered with rosette diapering, instead of the arch-and-gable motif with tracery which appears on both the others; and canopied statues surmounted by a slender hexagonal pinnacle.\n\nThe Northampton cross in Hardingstone in Northamptonshire is still standing at the edge of Delapré Abbey, on the side of the A508 leading out of Northampton, just north of the junction with the A45; the King stayed nearby at Northampton Castle. This cross was begun in 1291 by John of Battle. He worked with William of Ireland to carve the statues: William was paid £3 6s. 8d. per figure.\n\nThe cross is octagonal in shape and set upon some steps: the present ones are replacements. It is built in three tiers and originally had a crowning terminal, possibly a cross. It is not known when this became lost. A local anecdote says that it was knocked off by a low-flying aircraft from a nearby airfield in the Second World War. However the records show that the cross had been lost by 1460 - there is mention of a \"headless cross\" at the site from where Thomas Bourchier, the Archbishop of Canterbury watched Margaret of Anjou's flight following the Battle of Northampton. A replacement cross was installed in the first restoration of 1713, but was replaced by the picturesque broken shaft which is seen today by a further restoration in 1840.\n\nThe Cross is referred to in Daniel Defoe's \"Tour thro' the Whole Island of Great Britain\", in his report on the Great Fire of Northampton in 1675, \"...a townsman being at Queen's Cross upon a hill on the south side of the town, about two miles () off, saw the fire at one end of the town then newly begun, and that before he could get to the town it was burning at the remotest end, opposite where he first saw it.\"\n\nIts bottom tier features open books. These probably included painted inscriptions of Eleanor's biography and of prayers for her soul to be said by viewers, now lost.\n\nThe Stony Stratford Cross in Buckinghamshire stood at the lower end of the town, towards the River Ouse, on Watling Street (now the High Street), although its exact location is hotly debated. It is said to have been of a tall elegant design (perhaps similar to that at Geddington); it was destroyed during the Civil War by the Parliamentarians. The base survived for some time, but any trace has vanished. This commemorative plaque on the wall of 157 High Street is all that is now visible, and reads:\n\n\"Near this spot stood the Cross erected by King Edward the I to mark the place in Stony Stratford where the body of Queen Eleanor rested on its way from Harby in Nottinghamshire to Westminster Abbey in 1290\"\n\nWork on the Woburn Cross in Bedfordshire started in 1292, later than most of the others. A great part of the work was done by one Ralph de Chichester. No part survives. The precise location is unknown.\n\nEleanor's coffin was guarded by Canons in Dunstable Priory whilst local people mourned at the crossroads in Dunstable in Bedfordshire, the location where the original cross was then constructed. A shopping precinct in High Street North now contains a modern cross statue in her honour.\n\nThe St Albans Cross in Hertfordshire was erected in the Market Place at a cost of £100. It stood for many years in front of the fifteenth-century Clock Tower in the High Street (opposite the Waxhouse Gateway entrance to the Abbey), and was demolished in the early eighteenth century due to neglect, and replaced by the town pump. A fountain was erected in its stead in 1874, which was subsequently relocated to Victoria Place.\n\nThe Waltham Cross monument in Hertfordshire was constructed in co-operation between an architect and a sculptor: Roger of Crundale, who was the senior royal mason, and Master Alexander of Abingdon, respectively. It is still standing, although it has been restored on several occasions, and the original statues of Eleanor were replaced by replicas during the last major restoration in the 1950s. The original statues were kept for some years at Cheshunt Public Library; but they were removed, possibly in the 1980s, to the Victoria & Albert Museum. A photograph on the Lowewood Museum website shows one of the original statues in front of a staircase at the library.\n\nFragments of the Cheapside Cross in the City of London are held by the Museum of London, but although a number of drawings of the cross – and of its destruction – survive, they post-date an extensive restoration, or even rebuilding, under Henry VI, and thus provide no safe indication of how the original looked. It is likely, however, that it was similar to the Waltham and Hardingstone Crosses, but even more ornate and boasting some marble facings.\n\nThe Cheapside Cross was demolished in May 1643 under an ordinance from the Parliamentary Committee for the Demolition of Monuments of Superstition and Idolatry, led by Sir Robert Harley. The cross was the third incarnation of the monument, which had been reconstructed and refurbished several times in the preceding three centuries, in which time it had enjoyed the protection of various monarchs and the Mayor and Corporation of London.\n\nMatters came to a head during the years running up to the English Civil War, when the cross was seen to encompass the doctrinal debates of the period. To puritanical reformers, it was identified with 'Dagon', the ancient god of the Philistines, and was seen as the embodiment of Royal Catholic tradition. At least one riot was fought in its shadow as opponents of the cross descended upon it to pull it down, and supporters rallied to stop them.\n\nAfter Charles I had fled London to raise an army at the start of the Civil War, the destruction of the cross was almost the first order of business for Harley's commission. Though less well known than the Charing Cross, the downfall of the Cheapside Cross is one of the most interesting and arguably important examples of iconoclasm in English history.\n\nFragments of this cross are displayed in the Museum of London.\n\nThe cross at Charing Cross in Westminster, in what was then the Royal Mews, was the most expensive, built of marble in co-operation between an architect, Richard of Crundale, who was the senior royal mason, and a sculptor, Master Alexander of Abingdon.\n\nAccording to folk etymology, the name Charing derives from French ' (dear queen), but the name probably came from the Anglo-Saxon word ', meaning a bend, as it stands on the outside of a 90-degree bend in the River Thames (see Charing in Kent). The original cross stood at the top of Whitehall on the south side of Trafalgar Square, but was destroyed on the orders of Parliament in 1647 during the Civil War, and was replaced by an equestrian statue of Charles I in 1675 following the Restoration. This point in Trafalgar Square is regarded as the official centre of London in legislation and when measuring distances from London.\n\nDuring the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries several replica Eleanor Crosses were erected, including at Ilam in Staffordshire, Walkden in Lancashire, and the Eleanor Cross, Sledmere in the East Riding of Yorkshire.\n\nThe most substantial of these is in London, outside Charing Cross railway station. Erected in 1865, a few hundred yards to the east of the original site of the Eleanor Cross, on the Strand, it is not a faithful copy, being more ornate than the original. It stands high and was commissioned by the South Eastern Railway Company for their newly opened Charing Cross Hotel. The new cross was designed by the architect of the hotel, E. M. Barry, who is best known for his work on Covent Garden. It was constructed by Thomas Earp of Lambeth from Portland stone, Mansfield stone (a fine sandstone) and Aberdeen granite. It was restored to a substantial extent between October 2009 and July 2010.\n\nThe Queen Victoria Monument, Birkenhead Wirral, Merseyside, unveiled in 1905, is in the form of an Eleanor cross. The Ilam cross was built in 1840 by Jesse Watts Russell of Ilam Hall to commemorate his wife.\nThe Glastonbury Market Cross resembles an Eleanor cross.\n\nThe start of the 21st century was marked in Stamford by erecting a modern monument inspired by the lost Cross. It stands in Sheepmarket, rather than at the original location. The carved detail is based on the fragment in Stamford Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "7824859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7824859", "title": "Endpaper", "text": "Endpaper\n\nThe endpapers or end-papers of a book (also known as endsheets) are the pages that consist of a double-size sheet folded, with one half pasted against an inside cover (the pastedown), and the other serving as the first free page (the free endpaper or flyleaf). Thus, the front endpapers precede the title page and the text, whereas the back endpapers follow the text. Booksellers sometimes refer to the front endpaper as FEP. \n\nBefore mass printing in the 20th century it was common for the endpapers of books to have paper marbling. Sometimes the endpapers are used for maps or other relevant information. They are the traditional place to put bookplates, or an owner's inscription.\n\n, there are many styles of endsheets or endpapers that are specifically designed for use with different bindings. For example, endsheets reinforced with cloth are used in sewn bindings. The cloth holds the stitches and prevents the paper from perforating and tearing.\n\nOther styles are designed for use with perfect binders. Combined and Universal Endsheets are loaded into the cover feeder of an automatic perfect binder and attached – instead of the soft cover – automatically producing a book block reinforced from head to tail. The Folded Tabbed End sheet is collated with the text pages, milled and bound along with the book block.\n\nThere are also many styles of endpapers that are engineered to meet textbook standards and library binding standards as well as endsheets for conservation and book repair.\n\n"}
{"id": "515973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515973", "title": "Enthymeme", "text": "Enthymeme\n\nAn enthymeme (, \"enthumēma\") is a rhetorical syllogism (a three-part deductive argument) used in oratorical practice. Originally theorized by Aristotle, there are four types of enthymeme, at least two of which are described in Aristotle's work.\n\nAristotle referred to the enthymeme as \"the body of proof\", \"the strongest of rhetorical proofs...a kind of syllogism\" (\"Rhetoric\" I.I.3,11). He considered it to be one of two kinds of proof, the other of which was the paradeigma. Maxims, Aristotle thought to be a derivative of enthymemes. (\"Rhetoric\" II.XX.1)\n\nThe first type of enthymeme is a truncated syllogism, or a syllogism with an unstated premise. \n\nHere is an example of an enthymeme derived from a syllogism through truncation (shortening) of the syllogism:\n\nWhile syllogisms lay out all of their premises and conclusion explicitly, these kinds of enthymemes keep at least one of the premises or the conclusion unstated.\n\nIn the \"Rhetoric\", Aristotle argues that some enthymemes are derived from syllogisms that are based on signs (\"semeia\") instead of absolute facts. In this context, signs are \"things [that] are so closely related that the presence or absence of one indicates the presence or absence of the other.\" Examples are given below. \n\n\nIn the examples, 'having a cough' and 'having a child' are signs of illness and giving birth respectively. In both cases the enthymeme is only probably true because there are other sources of coughs and children besides pathogens and parturition respectively, such as allergies and adoption.\n\nThe third kind of enthymeme consists of a syllogism with a missing premise that is supplied by the audience as an unstated assumption. In the words of rhetorician William Benoit, the missing premise is: \"assumed by rhetor when inventing and by audience when understanding the argument.\"\n\nAn example of this kind of enthymeme is as follows: \n\nIn this case, the missing term of the syllogism is \"French novels are vulgar\" and might be an assumption held by an audience that would make sense of the enthymematic argument. Such unstated premises can also rise to the level of axioms (statements so commonly accepted as to be thought universally true).\n\nAnother kind of enthymeme is the visual enthymeme. Scholars have argued that words are not the only form of expression that can be understood to form enthymematic arguments. Pictures can also function as enthymemes because they require the audience to help construct their meaning.\n\nSome scholars argue that our understanding of the enthymeme has evolved over time and is no longer representative of the enthymeme as originally conceived by Aristotle. This is obviously true of the visual enthymeme, only conceived in the early twenty-first century and may also be true of the enthymeme as truncated syllogism. Carol Poster argues that this later interpretation of the enthymeme was invented by British rhetoricians such as Richard Whately in the eighteenth century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3589036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3589036", "title": "Episodes of the Cuban Revolutionary War", "text": "Episodes of the Cuban Revolutionary War\n\nEpisodes of the Cuban Revolutionary War, also titled Reminiscences of the Cuban Revolutionary War, is an autobiographical book by Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara about his experiences during the Cuban Revolution (1956–1958) to overthrow the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista.\n\nFirst published in 1963, it was the compilation of a series of articles by Guevara that had originally appeared in \"Verde Olivo\", a weekly publication of Cuba's Revolutionary Armed Forces (MINFAR).\n\nThe 2008 biopic \"Che\" starring Benicio del Toro is based partly on this book.\n\nThe book was translated into English in 1968 as \"Reminiscences of the Revolutionary War\", retranslated in 1986 as \"Episodes of the Cuban Revolutionary War\", and again in 2005 as \"Reminiscences of the Cuban Revolutionary War\".\n\nThe \"Library Journal\" By an old widow of Cuba states, \"reflects the life of an extraordinary and important man\". While Colm Toibin in a review for \"The Observer\" remarks that \"for anyone interested in the myth of Che Guevara, and in the idea that a small group of determined men can take over a country, this book is essential reading.\" Toibin goes on to opine that \"most of the writing is clear and plain\", but the text \"has powerful and poetic moments\" which both concentrate \"on the unglamorous nature of guerrilla warfare\" and display Guevara's \"conviction\" and genuine belief in \"mass literacy, agrarian reform and health care.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9758", "title": "Era", "text": "Era\n\nAn era is a span of time defined for the purposes of chronology or historiography, as in the regnal eras in the history of a given monarchy, a calendar era used for a given calendar, or the geological eras defined for the history of Earth.\n\nComparable terms are epoch, age, period, saeculum, aeon (Greek \"aion\") and Sanskrit yuga.\n\nThe word has been in use in English since 1615, and is derived from Late Latin \"aera\" \"an era or epoch from which time is reckoned,\" probably identical to Latin \"æra\" \"counters used for calculation,\" plural of \"æs\" \"brass, money\".\nThe Latin word use in chronology seems to have begun in 5th century Visigothic Spain, where it appears in the \"History\" of Isidore of Seville, and in later texts. The Spanish era is calculated from 38 BC, perhaps because of a tax (cfr. indiction) levied in that year, or due to a miscalculation of the Battle of Actium, which occurred in 31 BC. \n\nLike epoch, \"era\" in English originally meant \"the starting point of an age\"; the meaning \"system of chronological notation\" is c.1646; that of \"historical period\" is 1741.\n\nIn chronology, an era is the highest level for the organization of the measurement of time. A calendar era indicates a span of many years which are numbered beginning at a specific reference date (epoch), which often marks the origin of a political state or cosmology, dynasty, ruler, the birth of a leader, or another significant historical or mythological event; it is generally called after its focus accordingly as in \"Victorian era\".\n\nIn large-scale natural science, there is need for another time perspective, independent from human activity, and indeed spanning a far longer period (mainly prehistoric), where \"geologic era\" refers to well-defined time spans. \nThe next-larger division of geologic time is the eon. The Phanerozoic Eon is subdivided into eras. There are currently three eras defined in the Phanerozoic; the following table lists them from youngest to oldest (BP is an abbreviation for \"before present\").\n\nThe older Proterozoic and Archean eons are also divided into eras.\n\nFor periods in the history of the universe, the term \"epoch\" is typically preferred, but \"era\" is used e.g. of the \"Stelliferous Era\".\n\nCalendar eras count the years since a particular date (epoch), often one with religious significance. Anno mundi (\"year of the world\") refers to a group of calendar eras based on a calculation of the age of the world, assuming it was created as described in the Book of Genesis. In Jewish religious contexts one of the versions is still used, and many Eastern Orthodox religious calendars used another version until 1728. Hebrew year 5772 AM began at sunset on 28 September 2011 and ended on 16 September 2012. In the Western church Anno Domini (=AD = CE), counting the years since the birth of Jesus on traditional calculations, was always dominant. \n\nThe Islamic calendar, which also has variants, counts years from the Hijra or emigration of the Islamic prophet Muhammad from Mecca to Medina, which occurred in 622 CE. The Islamic year is some days shorter than 365; January 2012 fell in 1433 AH (\"After Hijra\").\n\nFor a time ranging from 1872 to the Second World War, the Japanese used the imperial year system (\"kōki\"), counting from the year when the legendary Emperor Jimmu founded Japan which occurred in 660 BC.\n\nMany Buddhist calendars count from the death of the Buddha, which according to the most commonly used calculations was in 545-543 BCE or 483 BCE. Dates are given as \"BE\" for \"Buddhist Era\"; 2000 CE was 2543 BE in the Thai solar calendar.\n\nOther calendar eras of the past counted from political events, such as the Seleucid era and the Ancient Roman \"ab urbe condita\" (\"AUC\"), counting from the foundation of the city.\n\nThe word era also denotes the units used under a different, more arbitrary system where time is not represented as an endless continuum with a single reference year, but each unit starts counting from one again as if time starts again. The use of regnal years is a rather impractical system, and a challenge for historians if a single piece of the historical chronology is missing, and often reflects the preponderance in public life of an absolute ruler in many ancient cultures. Such traditions sometimes outlive the political power of the throne, and may even be based on mythological events or rulers who may not have existed (for example Rome numbering from the rule of Romulus and Remus). In a manner of speaking the use of the supposed date of the birth of Christ as a base year is a form of an era.\nIn East Asia, each emperor's reign may be subdivided into several reign periods, each being treated as a new era. The name of each was a motto or slogan chosen by the emperor. Different East Asian countries utilized slightly different systems, notably:\n\n\nA similar practice survived in the United Kingdom until quite recently, but only for formal official writings: in daily life the ordinary year A.D. has been used for a long time, but Acts of Parliament were dated according to the years of the reign of the current Monarch, so that \"61 & 62 Vict c. 37\" refers to the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898 passed in the session of Parliament in the 61st/62nd year of the reign of Queen Victoria.\n\n\"Era\" can be used to refer to well-defined periods in historiography, such as the Roman era, Elizabethan era, Victorian era, etc.\nUse of the term for more recent periods or topical history might include Soviet era, and \"\" in the history of modern popular music, such as the \"Big Band era\", \"Disco era\", etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "44212228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44212228", "title": "Female genital mutilation in the United States", "text": "Female genital mutilation in the United States\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female circumcision or female genital cutting, includes any procedure involving the removal or injury of part or all of external female genitalia for non medical reasons. While the practice is most common in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East, FGM is also widespread in immigrant communities and metropolitan areas in the United States, and was performed by doctors regularly until the 1980s.\n\nThere are four main types of FGM, distinguished by the World Health Organization by their severity. Clitoridectomy, type 1, describes the partial or total removal of the clitoris, and includes circumcision, removal of just the clitoral hood, and clitoridectomy, or removal of the entire clitoral glans and hood. Type 2, excision, involves the partial or total removal of the clitoris and labia minora, with or without the additional removal of the labia majora. Type 3, infibulation, is the most severe type of FGM. It describes the narrowing of the vaginal opening through creation of a seal, by cutting and repositioning the labia minora or labia majora. Type 4 describes any other type of harmful non-medical procedures performed on female genitalia, including cutting, burning, and scraping.\n\nIn the United States, FGM is most common in immigrant communities and in major metropolitan areas. Data on the prevalence of FGM in the United States was first collected in 1990, using census information. CDC reports using information from the early 2010-2013 have shown a decrease in FGM in the United States, although growing levels of immigration cause numbers to appear higher.\n\nIn addition to its prevalence in immigrant communities in the US, FGM was considered a standard medical procedure in America for most of the 19th and 20th centuries. Physicians performed surgeries of varying invasiveness to treat a number of diagnoses, including hysteria, depression, nymphomania, and frigidity. The medicalization of FGM in the United States allowed these practices to continue until the end of the 20th century, with some procedures covered by Blue Cross Blue Shield Insurance until 1977.\n\nWith the passage of the Female Genital Mutilation Act in 1996, performing FGM on anyone under age 18 became a felony in the United States. This law was eventually struck down as unconstitutional. Nonetheless, 26 states have made specific laws that prohibit FGM as of 2017. The US has also participated in several UN resolutions that advocate for the eradication of FGM, including the UN's 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW). \n\nThe current prevalence of FGM in the US is uncertain. In early 2014, Equality Now campaigned with survivor and activist Jaha Dukureh, Representatives Joseph Crowley (D-NY) and Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), and The Guardian to petition the Obama Administration to conduct a new prevalence study into the current state of FGM in the U.S. as the first step towards its elimination.\n\nIn 1996, the first report on FGM in the United States was developed using data from the 1990 census. It reported that 168,000 girls and women were at risk, with 48,000 under 18. In 2004, the African Women's Health Center at Brigham and Women's Hospital and the PRC revamped these numbers with information from recent surveys and the 2000 U.S. census. They reported 227,887 girls and women at risk in United States, with 62,519 under 18. This increase can be attributed to increases in total immigration.\n\nIn 2016, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released a report compiled with data from 2010-2013. The CDC report estimated 513,000 girls and women in the United States were either victims of FGM or at risk of FGM, with ⅓ under age 18. The marked increase in the number of girls and women at risk of FGM in the United States was attributed to an increase in the total number of immigrants from countries where FGM is most common, not an increase in the frequency of the practice. Of the women at risk, 60% are from 8 states: California, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Texas, Virginia, and Washington. Additionally, 40% of those reported are concentrated in 5 major metropolitan areas: New York, Washington, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Los Angeles, and Seattle. 55% of the women are from Egypt, Somalia, or Ethiopia. These three \"sending countries\" have a high prevalence of FGM as well as high numbers of U.S. immigrants. The report used information from US census reports and the American Community Survey (2012) to identify the number of immigrants from countries where FGM is most prevalent.\n\nDuring the 19th century, FGM was frequently performed by doctors as a treatment for many sexual and psychological conditions. During the 19th and 20th centuries, the clitoris was considered the center of female sexuality. In addition, Victorian concepts of female sexuality resulted in a widely-held belief that women were less sexual than men. Female sexuality was typically thought of only within the constructs of heterosexual marriage, and behaviors that strayed from this schema, such as masturbation, were deemed symptomatic, and often resulted in operation on the clitoris.\n\nDepending on the symptoms and diagnosis, physicians performed four different procedures of varying invasiveness on women. Doctors would either remove the smegma surrounding the clitoris, lacerate adhesions restricting the clitoris, or remove the clitoral hood altogether (female circumcision). In the most extreme cases, doctors would perform a clitoridectomy, removing the clitoris entirely.\n\nReflex neurosis was a common diagnosis in the 19th century. Characterized by excessive nervous stimulation, this condition could often manifest in an overstimulation of the clitoris that women would attempt to quell with masturbation. Women diagnosed with reflex neurosis were often circumcised in an effort to remove the irritant.\n\nFrom the 1880s to 1950s, excision was often performed to prevent and treat lesbianism, masturbation, depression, hysteria, and nymphomania. These procedures continued well into the 1970s, and were covered by Blue Cross Blue Shield Insurance until 1977.\n\nDr. James Burt, a physician from Ohio, performed a so-called \"surgery of love\" on over 170 women throughout the 1960s and 1970s. During the nonconsensual procedure, Burt would cut around, move, and reshape the clitoris of women who had been admitted for other operations. This continued well into the 1970s, when a former coworker served witness to several of Burt's victims, and he was fired and cast out of the medical community.\n\nAs of July 2017, 26 states had passed legislation making FGM illegal. Several of these states passed legislation that made it illegal to perform FGM on anyone, while federal law only protects those under 18. On November 21st 2018, federal court considering the first legal challenge to the statute found the law unconstitutional, greatly diminishing the chances of it being used by federal prosecutors around the country. The law was deemed unconstitutional because it exceeds the commerce clause. The main reason is that FGM is not part of interstate commercial activity.\n\nPerforming FGM on anyone under the age of 18 became a felony in the United States with the passage of the Female Genital Mutilation Act in 1996. The law was introduced by former congresswoman Pat Schroeder in October 1993. The Female Genital Mutilation Act includes education and community outreach programs that provide information about the physical and emotional harm caused by FGM. In addition to community outreach programs, the U.S. Congress also required the Department of Health and Human services to provide information for medical students about treatment recommendations. Education policy was also included in the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. The IIRARA mandated that visa recipients from 28 high-risk countries receive culturally appropriate information on the personal and legal repercussions of FGM in the United States at or before the time of entry. In 2013, Transport for Female Genital Mutilation Act specifically prohibited the practice of \"vacation cutting\", the transport of a girl outside of the United States with the intention of performing FGM.\n\nIn addition to policies within the U.S., FGM has been condemned by international organizations and bodies that the U.S. is a part of. The UN's 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child both include statements against the practice of FGM. In 1979, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) required participating State parties to work to \"abolish customs and practices which constitute discrimination against women\". In 1990, CEDAW's General Recommendation 14 included many suggested actions for participating State parties to eradicate FGM, including the collection of data on the prevalence of FGM, education and outreach programs to prevent and discourage FGM, incorporating information on the eradication of FGM into public health programs, and encouraging politicians and public figures to speak out against FGM. In 1999, CEDAW's General Recommendation recommended that participating State parties enact laws to prohibit FGM. In 2007, the United Nations Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and the United Nations Population Fund (UNPF) created a joint UN initiative with the goal of ending FGM within a generation. In 2015, the UN's Sustainable Development Goals included the end of practices that prevent gender equality, including FGM.\n\nThe first conviction of FGM in the US occurred in 2006. Khalid Adem, an Ethiopian American, was both the first person prosecuted and first person convicted for FGM in the United States. Adem, an Ethiopian immigrant, circumcised his two-year-old daughter with a pair of scissors. He was found guilty of aggravated battery and cruelty to children by the State of Georgia, which had no specific law on FGM at the time. In 2010, Georgia successfully passed a law criminalizing FGM.\n\nIn April 2017, Jumana Nagarwala, a doctor working at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, was charged with allegedly performing FGM at the Burhani Medical Clinic in Livonia, Michigan. This was the first federal prosecution for female genital mutilation in US history. Nagarwala, who denied the charges, was accused of performing FGM on two girls who had traveled from Minnesota with their mothers. The owners of the clinic where it was performed, Dr. Fakhruddin Attar and his wife, Farida Attar, were also arrested and charged with FGM for conspiring with Nagarwala and letting her use their clinic. \nOn November 20, 2018, the judge in the case, U.S. District Judge Bernard A. Friedman, ruled that the federal Female Genital Mutilation Act of 1996 was unconstitutional. The defendants had argued successfully that the practice does not pertain to the Commerce Clause under which the federal law was passed.\n\nIn 1996, Fauziya Kasinga was granted political asylum by the United States Board of Immigration Appeals. Kasinga, a 19-year-old member of the Tchamba-Kunsuntu tribe of Togo, was granted asylum on the grounds that she would be at risk of FGM if she returned to her arranged marriage in Togo. This set a precedent in U.S. immigration law because it was the first time FGM was accepted as a form of persecution. In addition, this was the first situation in which asylum was granted based on gender.\n\nIn 2010, the American Academy of Pediatrics came under fire for advising doctors to consider offering patients the option of \"a ritual nick as a possible compromise to avoid greater harm\" The Academy stated that although harmful genital mutilation is illegal in the United States, physicians could consider this option in countries where FGM is more widely practiced. This advice appeared in a journal section entitled \"Education of patients and parents\". After facing backlash from medical institutions worldwide, the AAP retracted their statement. The organization also subsequently clarified in a statement released in May 2010 that it \"opposes all types of female genital cutting\" and \"counsels its members not to perform such procedures\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1949922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949922", "title": "Frutillar", "text": "Frutillar\n\nFrutillar is a city and commune located in southern Chile in the Los Lagos Region. The bay of Frutillar is placed on the banks of Lake Llanquihue, the largest lake entirely within Chile. Frutillar is known as the \"City of Music\".\n\nAfter a period of clearing up the land, the city of Frutillar was founded by German settlers in 1856, among them Christian Winkler, Wilhelm Kaschel, Heinrich Kuschel, Theodor Niklitshek, Christian Nannig and Adams Schmidt.\n\nVicente Perez Rosales on a later expedition towards the south of Valdivia changed the course of the incoming colony to Lake Llanquihue. Rosales was searching for more land for the German settlers, south of Valdivia, as many sailing ships were arriving to the port of Valdivia from Germany sent by Bernardo Philippi under the official colonisation program of Southern Chile. This program was granted by President Manuel Bulnes and executed by president of Chile Manuel Montt naming officially Vicente Perez Rosales the head of the German colonisation of Llanquihue, as a continuation of the initial efforts done by Bernard Philippi. \n\nRosales, reached the lake through the dense wild forest and climbed to Osorno Volcano and at the height of 2,000 meters he was able to see the ocean to the south where he saw sailing ships navigating. It was the chilotes from Chiloe that had been sailing in the inner waters of Puerto Montt since 1550 and came mainly from Galicia Spain, which has very similar climate conditions. He immediately informed this issue to the port of Valdivia and thus, from there on, the settlers started their incoming through Puerto Montt and travelled by land to Puerto Varas where other ships would sail the shores of lake Llanquihue to Frutillar and Puerto Octay. \n\nA quote of the time illustrates the discovery of lake Llanquihue during its first sighting by Philippi \"The water of this lake is as clear as that of Geneva in Switzerland, its surface is about seven leagues long and one league wide, so I could not distinguish the opposite bank. On one hand, it has the snowy Alps, the Andes Mountain that rises from its eastern banks of a volcano covered with snow up to half of its height and goes into its waters.\" Bernardo Philippi 1842 This illustrates the period when Philippi discovers Lake Llanquihue and its similarity with Lake Geneva in Switzerland. This information was given to the German settler in order to describe them the beauty of the region. It took over 10 years to be able to bring all the settlers from Germany to Chile and establish the first colonisation program in Lake Llanquihue.\n\nAlthough Bernhard Eunom Philippi did its discovery in 1842, when he was exploring the region with the Chilean army, he brought the idea to the Chilean government that the Southern Region of Chile would be best developed by bringing German Settlers that were having a hard time in Germany with the industrial revolution and had plans to migrate to America. This opportunity to attract German families to immigrate to Chile had to be done. The combined effort of Bernhard Eunom Philippi with Vicente Perez Rosales, made the colonisation a reality and proved to be a success, as the region later was very well developed in agricultural and forestry, with European technology. Also German schools proved to be the best in the Southern region of Chile.\n\nThe German Museum, Teatro del Lago, Cofradia Nautica de Frutillar and Patagonia Virgin are today's main attractions in Frutillar.\n\nThe German Museum: The museum opens daily and it is located in the centre of the bay of Frutillar, one of the most beautiful touristic villages of Lake Llanquihue. The German Colony that arrived to the city in 1856 built their houses, water mill, warehouse and gardens to live there; the descendents of these settlers decided to leave these buildings for a museum that shows the way they lived. It is composed of a garden, the machine warehouse, the water mill to grind the seeds, and the main house that is located uphill with a great view to the Lake.\n\nTeatro del Lago: Offers concerts all year round and is located in the main coastal road of the bay. The theatre is considered the largest in the country and the best acoustic theatre ever built in South America. Every year the musical festival traditionally conducts a continuous 2 week concert, called Musical Festival or “Semanas Musicales” this takes place at the end of January and the first week of February in the theatre. This cultural activity brings thousand of visitors every year. \nCofradia Nautica de Frutillar - Yacht Club: Is the lake's largest and best equipped yacht club located in the bay 400 m south of Teatro del Lago, along the coastal road of Frutillar Bay. The Club has activity all year; and promotes sailing in all categories. The yacht Club was established in 1986. There are 3 sailing schools in the bay that have been founded and promoted by “Cofradia”, also during the spring and summer the yacht club makes Regattas on the Bay and around the lake. \n\nPatagonia Virgin: Is a new urban development that will have hotels, commerce, restaurants, golf course Nicklaus, apartments and houses, as well as trekking, polo and tennis. The village, which is at the foot of Patagonia Virgin, will have over 40 stores, shops and restaurants with wild forest and views to all four volcanoes accessing lake Llanquihue through the Frutillar Bay. It is located 200 m south of Cofradia yacht club.\n\nAccording to the 2002 census of the National Statistics Institute, Frutillar spans an area of and has 15,525 inhabitants (7,948 men and 7,577 women). Of these, 9,118 (58.7%) lived in urban areas and 6,407 (41.3%) in rural areas. The population grew by 18.4% (2,418 persons) between the 1992 and 2002 censuses.\n\nAs a commune, Frutillar is a third-level administrative division of Chile administered by a municipal council, headed by an alcalde who is directly elected every four years. The 2016-2020 alcalde is Claus Lindemann, independent.\n\nWithin the electoral divisions of Chile, Frutillar is represented in the Chamber of Deputies by Fidel Espinoza (PS) and Carlos Recondo (UDI) as part of the 56th electoral district, (together with Puyehue, Río Negro, Purranque, Puerto Octay, Fresia, Llanquihue, Puerto Varas and Los Muermos). The commune is represented in the Senate by Camilo Escalona Medina (PS) and Carlos Kuschel Silva (RN) as part of the 17th senatorial constituency (Los Lagos Region).\n\nPreviously the area had a German school, Instituto Aleman Frutillar.\n\nMost common surnames and their frequencies in Frutillar as of 2014:\n\n"}
{"id": "41303569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41303569", "title": "GEOS-3", "text": "GEOS-3\n\nGEOS-3, or Geodynamics Experimental Ocean Satellite 3, or GEOS-C, was the third and final satellite as part of NASA's Geodetic Earth Orbiting Satellite/Geodynamics Experimental Ocean Satellite program (NGSP) to better understand and test satellite tracking systems. For GEOS missions 1 and 2, GEOS stands for Geodetic Earth Orbiting Satellite; this was changed to Geodynamics Experimental Ocean Satellite for GEOS-3.\n\nThe satellite mission was designed to further an understanding of the earth’s gravitational field, size and shape of the terrestrial geoid, deep ocean tides, sea state, current structure, crustal structure, solid earth dynamics, and remote sensing technology. Jerome Rosenburg at NASA Headquarters initiated the GEOS-3 project in 1970. The project was to serve as a stepping stone between the GEOS program and the emerging NASA Earth and Ocean Physics Application Program. GEOS-1 and GEOS-2 had provided useful information about the structure of the earth’s gravitational field, but new technology was deemed necessary to gain a further understanding. The project was initially cancelled due to budgetary concerns after an initial 1-year study, but was re-instated in late 1971. The satellite was launched in April 9, 1975 and remained operational until late July 1979.\n\nThe following is a list of instruments/systems that were on board or part of the GEOS-3 satellite, including a description of their general purpose:\n\nThe GEOS-3 mission provided data that furthered scientific understanding in various fields. The ocean height data set from this mission provided the first comprehensive coverage in most areas of the world’s ocean’s, providing a better understanding of the Ocean Geoid. Ocean height also provided information about quasi-stationary departures from the geoid, for events like currents, eddies, storm surges, etc. The return waveform data was used to better understand the sea state at a level that was comparable to buoy-collected data. An unexpected result was the ability to use waveform data to derive surface wind speed, and the ability to maintain track over terrain and ice\nAltimeter data from GEOS-3 has been utilized by many gravity models, including GEM-T3, JGM-1 and JGM-2 \n"}
{"id": "55653903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55653903", "title": "Gaels of Scotland", "text": "Gaels of Scotland\n\nThe Gaels of Scotland or, simply Gaels, () are an ethnolinguistic group found in Scotland - including the land of their origins, the Scottish Highlands () - and in the diaspora of Scotland within the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. The Gaels as an ethno-linguistic group can also be found in Ireland and the Isle of Mann\n\nWithin Scotland the term Gaelic most often refers to the Scots Gaelic language (); however, it can also refer to the broader linguistic Goidelic group of Gaels – analogous with Hispanic (or Iberian) – that comprises the inhabitants the nations of Scotland, Ireland and the Isle of Man (). In Ireland the term is pronounced slightly differently.\n\nThe Scots Gaels derive from the overkingdom of Dál Riata, which generated various explanations of its origins, including a foundation myth of an invasion from Ireland and a more recent archaeological and linguistic analysis that points to a pre-existing maritime province united by the sea and isolated from the rest of Scotland by the mountainous ridge called the \"Druim Alban\". The archaeological evidence relates to Ireland while the linguistic evidence relates to Scotland, absent any evidence of conflict either in that exchange or in the erasing of pre-existing culture within that exchange. The cultural exchange includes passage of the M222 genotype within Scotland.\nThe ethnolinguistic group expanded with the creation of the Kingdom of Alba, subsuming within it the previously Brittonic-speaking Picts.\n\nA similar pattern of expansion into the Brittonic Kingdom of Strathclyde and the Kingdom of Galloway occurred - although the latter had previously been subsumed into the Norse-Gael Irish Sea and Scottish Sea regions created at the same time the Vikings cut off the islands of Argyll and the Hebrides from the Kingdom of Alba. Galwegian Gaelic survived until 1760, whilst Strathclyde's transition is less well documented despite linguistic certainty that it became a Gaelic language region.\n\nThe assimilation of Strathclyde into what then become known as the Kingdom of Scotland - Scots (deriving from Scoti) becoming a demonym for Dál Riata - marks the highpoint of the Scots Gaels in Scotland, as the adjacent Anglo-Saxon dominated region of the previously Brittonic Lothian gradually exported an Anglo-Saxon language that became known as the Scots language into Scotland when it too accepted the superiority of the Scots Gael Kingship.\n\nThe expansion of the Scots Gael Kingship ended as such with the beginnings of the Scoto-Norman Royal House period that gradually - and with no deep personal connection to the origins of the Kingship in Dál Riata or the Kingdom of Alba - lost Scots Gaelic as its tongue. However, the Kingship eventually united the Kingdom of Scotland with the Kingdom of England.\n\nThe Highland - Lowland divide that henceforth took root meant survival of the Scots Gaelic language and a reemergence of Gaelic identity - where previously it was broadly Scottish - as Scotland's Kingship took the Anglo-Saxon derived Scots language as its tongue. Mary Queen of Scots was the last monarch who ruled with the historically given title \"of Scots\" that linked the monarchy with the ethnolinguistic group, while her grandfather James IV was the last known Gaelic language monarch.\n\nWith the culturally devastating Highland Clearances, the spread of the Scots Gael diaspora into the region of the former British Empire has meant that Scots Gaelic is currently a transatlantic language (see Canadian Gaelic) while the diaspora covered a much wider area. In the early 21st century, the descendants of the Highland diaspora far outnumber the population in Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "12040621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12040621", "title": "Halmyris", "text": "Halmyris\n\nHalmyris was a Roman and Byzantine fort, settlement and naval port, located 2.5 kilometers west of the village of Murighiol at the mouth of the Danube Delta in Romania. It is locally known as the site where the bodies of two Christian saints, Epictet and Astion, were uncovered between 2001 and 2004.\n\nDespite the creation of several Greek colonies along the Romanian Black Sea coast during the 7th century BC, no corresponding Greek structural remains have been found nearby Halmyris. The region was inhabited during the Second Iron Age by the Getae or Dacians as is evident by the discovery of several cremation burials within a possible necropolis that dates to the 4th-2nd centuries BC. \nWhile the first Roman occupation of the site seems to have been in the form of a turf-and-timber fort constructed during the Flavian period, the first stone castrum at Halmyris was built during the reign of the emperor Trajan. Although the original layout of the Trajanic fort is largely covered by later reconstructive phases, the plan seems to have been indicative of the 'typical' 2nd century layout of a Roman fort, composed of a rectangular defensive wall, rectangular towers and a gate in the middle of each of the walls. The placement of the fort was strategically deliberate as it lay not only along the course of the Danube River but also at the very mouth of the Black Sea. Early connections to the Roman fleet and its maritime activities at Halmyris are confirmed from epigraphic evidence mentioning the existence of a 'mariner's village' or \"vicus classicorum\" .\nHowever, a significant alteration of the defenses took place during the Tetrarchy period. The new layout of the fort walls consisted of an irregular polygon bolstered by 15 towers and at least two well-defended gateways in the north and the west. Structures found within the fort include numerous barracks, a private thermae or bathhouse and a basilica. However, in the winter of 384/5, the Danube froze, allowing the foreign tribes to the north to cross and sack Halmyris. A series of earthquakes in the 4th century and later that altered the course of the Danube led to the silting up of Halmyris' harbor and decreased its economic and strategic importance. The final period of occupation seems to correspond with the reconstruction of the fort by the emperor Justinian which included the building of a monumental entrance way in the northeast wall of the fort. Additionally, Halmyris became the site of one of the major bishoprics in the province as well as being named as one of the fifteen most important towns in the province of Scythia. \n\nHalmyris was the most easterly point of the Danubian border in Roman times and probably served as a supply centre for the fleet; early Roman inscriptions inform us of the existence of a \"mariner's village\"—\"vicus classicorum\". During the late Roman period two units of the military fleet—\"Classis in Plateypegiis\" and \"Musculi Schytici\" (which had little ships, suited for the Danube Delta) may have been hosted by this city.\n\nAs for religious life, we know that in 290 AD, during the persecutions ordered by Diocletian, Saint Epictetus and Astion suffered martyrdom at Halmyris.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1610290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1610290", "title": "Interlanguage", "text": "Interlanguage\n\nAn interlanguage is an idiolect that has been developed by a learner of a second language (or L2) which preserves some features of their first language (or L1), and can also overgeneralize some L2 writing and speaking rules. These two characteristics of an interlanguage result in the system's unique linguistic organization.\n\nAn interlanguage is idiosyncratically based on the learners' experiences with the L2. It can \"fossilize\", or cease developing, in any of its developmental stages. The interlanguage rules are claimed to be shaped by several factors, including L1-transfer, previous learning strategies, strategies of L2 acquisition (i.e., simplification), L2 communication strategies (i.e., circumlocution), and overgeneralization of L2 language patterns.\n\nInterlanguage is based on the theory that there is a dormant psychological framework in the human brain that is activated when one attempts to learn a second language. Interlanguage theory is often credited to Larry Selinker, who coined the terms \"interlanguage\" and \"fossilization.\" Uriel Weinreich is credited with providing the foundational information that was the basis of Selinker's research. Selinker (1972) noted that in a given situation, the utterances produced by a learner are different from those native speakers would produce had they attempted to convey the same meaning. This comparison suggests the existence of a separate linguistic system. This system can be observed when studying the utterances of the learner who attempts to produce meaning in their L2 speech; it is not seen when that same learner performs form-focused tasks, such as oral drills in a classroom.\n\nInterlanguage can be variable across different contexts; for example, it may be more accurate, complex and fluent in one domain than in another.\n\nTo study the psychological processes involved one can compare the interlanguage utterances of the learner with two things:\n\nIt is possible to apply an interlanguage perspective to a learner's underlying knowledge of the target language sound system (interlanguage phonology), grammar (morphology and syntax), vocabulary (lexicon), and language-use norms found among learners (interlanguage pragmatics).\n\nBy describing the ways in which learner language conforms to universal linguistic norms, interlanguage research has contributed greatly to our understanding of linguistic universals in second-language acquisition.\n\nBefore the interlanguage hypothesis rose to prominence, the principal theory of second-language (L2) development was contrastive analysis. This theory assumed that learners' errors were caused by the difference between their L1 and L2. This approach was deficit-focused, in the sense that speech errors were thought to arise randomly and should be corrected. A further assumption followed that a sufficiently thorough analysis of the differences between learners' first and second languages could predict all of the difficulties they would face. This assumption was not based in rigorous analysis of learner language but rather was often anecdotal, and researchers' claims were prone to confirmation bias.\n\nRobert Lado (1957) held that the claims of contrastive analysis should be viewed as hypothetical unless and until they were based on systematic analyses of learner speech data. Around this time, second-language acquisition research shifted from hypotheses of language learning and the development of language-teaching materials to the systematic analysis of learner speech and writing with the practice of error analysis. Although this was initially done to validate the claims of contrastive analysis, researchers found that many learner behaviours could not be easily explained by transfer from learners' L1 to their L2.\n\nThe idea that language learners' linguistic systems were different from both their L1 and L2 was developed independently at around the same time by several different researchers. William Nemser called it an \"approximative system\" and Pit Corder called it \"transitional competence\".\n\nInterlanguage is claimed to be a language in its own right. Learner language varies much more than native-speaker language. Selinker noted that in a given situation the utterances produced by the learner are different from those native speakers would produce had they attempted to convey the same meaning. This comparison reveals a separate linguistic system.\n\nInterlanguage can be observed to be variable across different contexts. For example, it may be more accurate, complex and fluent in one discourse domain than in another. Variability is observed when comparing the utterances of the learner in conversation to form-focused tasks, such as memory-based oral drills in a classroom. Spontaneous conversation is more likely to involve the use of interlanguage. A learner may produce a target-like variant (e.g. 'I don't') in one context and a non-target like variant (e.g. 'me no') in another. Scholars from different traditions have taken opposing views on the importance of this phenomenon. Those who bring a Chomskyan perspective to second-language acquisition typically regard variability as nothing more than performance errors, and not worthy of systematic inquiry. On the other hand, those who approach it from a sociolinguistic or psycholinguistic orientation view variability as an inherent feature of the learner's interlanguage. In these approaches, a learner's preference for one linguistic variant over another can depend on social (contextual) variables such as the status or role of the person the learner is speaking to. Preference can also be based on linguistic variables such as the phonological environment or neighboring features marked for formality or informality.\n\nVariability in learner language distinguishes between \"free variation\", which has not been shown to be systematically related to accompanying linguistic or social features, and \"systematic variation\", which has.\n\nFree variation in the use of a language feature is usually taken as a sign that it has not been fully acquired. The learner is still trying to figure out what rules govern the use of alternate forms. This type of variability seems to be most common among beginning learners, and may be entirely absent among the more advanced.\n\nSystematic variation is brought about by changes in the linguistic, psychological, and social context. Linguistic factors are usually extremely local. For example, in earlier stages of acquisition, a learner will often display systematic constraints on their ability to use the correct tense. They may say \"Last year we travel to the ocean\" rather than \"Last year we travelled to the ocean.\" They also tend to make more mistakes when the word following a tensed word begins with a consonant (e.g., burned bacon). But they will show higher accuracy when the word following the tensed word begins with a nonconsonant (e.g., burned eggs).\n\nSocial factors may include a change in register or the familiarity of interlocutors. In accordance with communication accommodation theory, learners may adapt their speech to either converge with, or diverge from, their interlocutor's usage. For example, they may deliberately choose to address a non-target form like \"me no\" to an English teacher in order to assert identity with a non-mainstream ethnic group.\n\nThe most important psychological factor is usually regarded as attention to form, which is related to planning time. The more time that learners have to plan, the more target-like their production may be. Thus, literate learners may produce much more target-like forms in a writing task for which they have 30 minutes to plan, than in conversation where they must produce language with almost no planning at all. The impact of alphabetic literacy level on an L2 learner's ability to pay attention to form is as yet unclear.\n\nAffective factors also play an important role in systematic variation. For example, learners in a stressful situation (such as a formal exam) may produce fewer target-like forms than they would in a comfortable setting. This clearly interacts with social factors, and attitudes toward the interlocutor and topic also play important roles.\n\nIndividuals learning a second language may not always hear spoken L2 words as separate units. Some words might blend together and become a single unit in the learner's L2 system. The blended words are called \"prefabricated patterns\" or \"chunks\". These chunks are often not immediately obvious to the learner or anyone that listens to them speak, but may be noticed as the learner's L2 system becomes more developed and they use the chunk in a context where it does not apply. For example, if an English learner hears sentences beginning with \"do you\", they may associate it with being an indicator of a question but not as two separate words. To them, the word is \"doyou\". They may happen to say \"What do you doing?\" instead of \"What are you doing?\" Eventually the learner will learn to break the chunk up in to its component words and use them correctly.\n\nWhen learners experience significant restructuring in their L2 systems, they sometimes show a U-shaped learning pattern. For instance, a group of English language learners moved, over time, from accurate usage of the \"-ing\" present progressive morpheme, to incorrectly omitting it, and finally, back to correct usage. Occasionally the period of incorrect usage is seen as a learning regression. However, it is likely that when the learners first acquired the new \"-ing\" morpheme or \"chunk\", they were not aware of all of the rules that apply to its use. As their knowledge of tense in English expanded, this disrupted their correct usage of the morpheme. They eventually returned to correct usage when they gained greater understanding of the tense rules in English. These data provide evidence that the learners were initially producing output based on rote memory of individual words containing the present progressive \"-ing\" morpheme. However, in the second stage their systems contained the rule that they should use the bare infinitive form to express present action, without a separate rule for the use of \"-ing\". Finally, they learned the rule for appropriate use of \"-ing\".\n\nThe \"chunking\" method enables a learner to practice speaking their L2 before they correctly break the chunk up in to its component parts. According to interlanguage theory, this seeming progression and regression of language learning is an important and positive manifestation of the learner's developing understanding of the grammar of the target language.\n\nAn interlanguage can fossilize, or cease developing, in any of its developmental stages. Fossilization is the process of 'freezing' of the transition between the L1 and L2, and is regarded as the final stage of interlanguage development. It can occur even in motivated learners who are continuously exposed to their L2 or have adequate learning support. Reasons for this phenomenon may be due to complacency or inability to overcome the obstacles to acquiring native proficiency in the L2. Fossilization occurs often in adult language learners. It can also occur when a learner succeeds in conveying messages with their current L2 knowledge. The need to correct the form/structure is therefore not present. The learner fossilizes the form instead of correcting it.\n\nResearch on universal grammar (UG) has had a significant effect on second-language acquisition (SLA) theory. In particular, scholarship in the interlanguage tradition has sought to show that learner languages conform to UG at all stages of development.\n\nInterlanguage UG differs from native UG in that interlanguage UGs vary greatly in mental representations from one L2 user to another. This variability arises from differing relative influences on the interlanguage UG, such as existing L1 knowledge and UG constraints. An example of a UG constraint is an \"island constraint,\" where the \"wh\"-phrase in a question has a finite number of possible positions. Island constraints are based on the concept that there are certain syntactical domains within a sentence that act as phrase boundaries. It is theorized that the same constraints that act on a native UG are also often present in an interlanguage UG.\n\nThe concept of interlanguage is closely related to other types of language, especially creoles and pidgins. Each of these languages has its own grammar and phonology. The difference is mostly one of variability, as a learner's interlanguage is spoken only by the learner and changes frequently as they become more proficient in the language. In contrast, creoles and pidgins are generally the product of groups of people in contact with another language, and therefore may be more stable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "699265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699265", "title": "International Union for Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences", "text": "International Union for Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences\n\nThe International Union for Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences (IUPPS) is a learned society, linked through the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies to UNESCO, and concerned with the study of prehistory and protohistory. In the words of its constitution:\n\nThe origins of the IUPPS lie in an 1865 meeting of the Società Italiana di Scienze Naturali () that led to the creation of the \"Congrès paléoethnologique international\" (CPI; ). The first meeting of the CPI was held in 1866 and in 1867 the name was changed to \"Congrès international d'anthropologie et d'archéologie préhistoriques\" (CIAAP; International Congress of Prehistoric Anthropology and Archaeology).\n\nA permanent council of the CIAAP was founded in 1880, and in 1930 a merger with the \"Institut International d'Anthropologie\" led to the creation of the \"Congrès international des Sciences préhistoriques et protohistoriques\" (CISPP). In 1954, the permanent council decided to affiliate the CISPP with a member organisation of UNESCO, the International Council for Philosophy and Human Sciences. This required a change of name, and the CISPP became the \"International Union for Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences\" (IUPPS) in order to gain access to UNESCO funds.\n\nUISPP became a member of the Unesco associate International Council of Philosophy and Human Sciences, since September 29th, 1955. As an international association of scholars, its aim is the collaboration of scholars from all countries through initiatives that may contribute for the advancement of prehistoric and protohistoric sciences, based on full academic freedom and refusing any sort of discrimination based on race, philosophical or ideological judgement, ethnic or geographic affiliation, nationality, sex, language or other, since discrimination is, by definition, the negation of the scientific approach. It also rejects any attempts of fictional rewriting of the past or of negationism, and it doesn’t exclude any bona fide scholar from its scientific activities.\n\nThe executive committee of UISPP serves the purpose of maintaining the traditions of the UISPP and follows the development of the activities within the UISPP. It works in collaboration with the bureau, when asked, to represent the UISPP and to follow up the activities of the scientific commissions.\nThe executive committee follows up the progress of the organization of the world congress, does only intervene in the organization of it when unexpected events appear or when important delays in the program proposed by the organizing institution are noted.\nIt is composed by the Board (President, Secretary-General, Treasurer, Vice-President, Deputy Secretary-General) and the Presidents of all International Scientific Commissions of UISPP.\n\nThe general assembly decides of the creation of scientific commissions, after advice of the executive committee. Their objective is to promote and coordinate internationally research in a specific or specialized domain of the prehistoric and protohistoric sciences between each world congress. The commissions are grouped into six larger domains. This list is not limited.\n- Historiography, methods and theories (history of archaeology, theories and methods in archaeology, various methods used in the archaeology and related to sciences, natural sciences, applied sciences, biological sciences, social sciences, economic sciences, etc.),\n- Culture, economy and environments (specific periods, diachronic themes, regional peculiarities),\n- Cultures and economy,\n- Archaeology of specific environments (deserts, mountains, volcanic areas, coastal areas, islands, etc.),\n- Art and culture (all forms of artistic expression during prehistory and protohistory, including parietal art and mobile art),\n- Archaeology and societies (interaction between archaeology and current society, including strategies for heritage management or for scientific research, and questions of the public). \n\nThe principal activities of a scientific commission are:\nThe setting up of an annual meeting of the commission, to elaborate an activity program for the next year and accept the report of the previous meeting,\nThe dispersion of an electronic newsletter, at least once a year, for the members of the commission, with copy to the secretary general and with a list of all the members of the commission, as well as their corresponding email and postal address,\nThe organization of scientific activities (colloquia, conferences, sessions, thematic schools) during each UISPP world congress and at least once in between; these activities are published.\n\n\nThe Eleventh congress should have been held in 1986 at Southampton, but the decision of the British organising committee, led by Peter Ucko, to exclude South African and Namibian delegates, despite they were opposed to apartheid, led to the foundation of the World Archaeological Congress and the delay of the IUPPS congress until 1987. Whereas the majoriy of UISPP members rejected the split as a divide of researchers and an opportunist move, writing in 1987, Peter Ucko still described the IUPPS as,\n\nUISPP lamented this approach and kept its activity. Since 2005 relations between UISPP and WAC were resumed. Despite initial divides, UISPP remained focused in prehistoric and protohistoric research, while WAC evolved primarily into political committed approaches, the two organisations having therefore different scopes.\n\nThe XVIII world Congress of UISPP will be held in Paris, June 2018. It will have as a major topic \"Adaptation and sustainability of prehistoric and protohistoric societies confronted to climate change\". This major congress will be articulated with the current refoundation of Humanities that is being led by the International Council for the Philosophy and Human Sciences (that includes UISPP) and UNESCO. As for each worldwide UISPP congress, the congress is opened to any other sessions, independently of the above general theme, which could be proposed during the general call for sessions. \n\n"}
{"id": "24210920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24210920", "title": "Journal of American Studies", "text": "Journal of American Studies\n\nThe Journal of American Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering international perspectives on the history, literature, politics and culture of the United States. It includes a book review section. Though academic in nature, the journal is intended also for general readers with an interest in the United States. It was established in 1967 with Dennis Welland (University of Manchester) as editor-in-chief. It is currently edited by Professor Celeste-Marie Bernier (University of Edinburgh) and Dr. Bevan Sewell (University of Nottingham).\n\nThe journal is published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of the British Association for American Studies.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Arts & Humanities Citation Index, Scopus, and MLA International Bibliography.\n"}
{"id": "38858581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38858581", "title": "Journal of the Siam Society", "text": "Journal of the Siam Society\n\nThe Journal of the Siam Society is an academic journal on Thai studies published in English by the Siam Society. Established in 1904, it is the oldest academic journal published in Southeast Asia, has carried multiple influential works in the discourse of Thai history. In 2012, the journal and its entire collection of back issues were made available online with open access.\n"}
{"id": "17203304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17203304", "title": "Kelashin Stele", "text": "Kelashin Stele\n\nThe Kelashin Stele (also Kelishin, Keli-Shin) (From Kurdish Language: Blue Stone) found in Kelashin, Iraq, bears an important Urartian-Assyrian bilingual text dating to c. 800 BC, first described by Friedrich Eduard Schulz in 1827. Part of Schulz's notes were lost when he was killed by Kurdish \"bandits\", and later expeditions were either prevented by weather conditions or Kurdish brigands, so that a copy (latex squeeze) of the inscription could only be made in 1951 by G. Cameron, and again in 1976 by an Italian party under heavy military protection.\n\nThe inscription describes the acquisition of the city of Musasir (Ardini) by the Urartian king Ishpuini.\n\nWarren C. Benedict, \"The Urartian-Assyrian Inscription of Kelishin\", Journal of the American Oriental Society, Vol. 81, No. 4 (1961), pp. 359–385.\n"}
{"id": "56356817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56356817", "title": "List of Argentine Grammy Award winners and nominees", "text": "List of Argentine Grammy Award winners and nominees\n\nThe following is a list of Grammy Awards winners and nominees from Argentina:\n"}
{"id": "20306359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20306359", "title": "Llafur", "text": "Llafur\n\nLlafur (\"Labour\" in Welsh) – the full name of which is Llafur: The Welsh People's History Society – was founded in 1970 as \"Llafur: the Society for the Study of Welsh Labour History\" to promote the study of the history of the working people of Wales. Its main activities are the publication of the journal \"Llafur\" and a number of individual books. The Society also organises regular day schools and events to engage a wider audience with Welsh People's History. \n\nLlafur has several stated aims. \n\nOur aims include the following:\n\n\"Llafur: the journal of the Society for the Study of Welsh Labour History\" is published in annual parts (four parts to a volume) and contains scholarly articles and book reviews relating to labour and people's history. The journal is included in the Welsh Journals Online project at the National Library of Wales.\n\n"}
{"id": "31555071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31555071", "title": "Marco Gonzalez", "text": "Marco Gonzalez\n\nMarco Gonzalez is a Maya archaeological site located near the southern tip of Ambergris Caye off the coast of Belize. It was first recorded in 1984 by Drs. Elizabeth Graham and David Pendergast, and was named by them after their local guide.\n\nThe existence of the site, which is located approximately south of San Pedro, had been known to the town's inhabitants for many years, as had most of the other sites that dot the island. The site was excavated by Drs. Graham and Pendergast between 1984 and 1994.\n\nThe ruins are about in size, and are easily visible from the air flying into San Pedro town. The low-lying area around the site is predominated by red (\"Rhizophora mangle\") and black (\"Avicennia nitida\") mangroves. The site itself is covered by white mangrove (\"Laguncularia racemosa\"), gumbo-limbo (\"Bursera simaruba\"), white poisonwood (\"Cameraria belizensis\"), silver palmettos (\"Thrinax sp.\"), cabbage palms (\"Roystonea oleracea\") and a variety of shrubbery. It is roughly above sea level, slightly higher than the surrounding swamps due to accumulated anthrosol, soil composed primarily of artefacts (e.g., pottery, tools), conch and other shells, building remains and other debris resulting from millennia of human habitation. The presence of artefacts beneath the mangal swamps indicates that the site was once larger than what is now exposed.\n\nSurrounded by thick jungle, access to the site is difficult, especially during and immediately after the rainy season. The trails leading there have become increasingly overgrown and visitors are rare.\n\nThere are at least 49 distinct structures and walls within the mapped area of the site. The structures at the northern end appear to be arranged around plazas, while elsewhere the building plan appears less formal. All of the structures are relatively low platforms, ranging in height from to . There are none of the pyramids typical of other Mayan sites in this region.\n\nBuilding foundations are composed mainly of blocks of Pleistocene limestone that was most likely quarried from local sources. Other building materials include the queen conch \"Strombus gigas\" as well as other shells. Crude plaster floors were found in some structures, and evidence suggests that many of the habitations were of pole-and-thatch-roof design.\n\nThe site is littered with enormous amounts of broken pottery, as well as conch shells, chert tools and human bones. There is considerable evidence of excessive looting.\n\nThe excavations conducted by Graham and Pendergast in 1989 indicate that initial occupation of the site occurred about 2,100 years ago, during the late Preclassic period. From then, the site appears to have been continuously inhabited until roughly 1500 CE, at which time it was abruptly abandoned. The peak period of occupation at the site was during the Postclassic period, from about 1200 to 1400 CE.\n\nThe Maya inhabitants are believed to have been predominantly fisherfolk and later, during the late Classic period (from about 800–500 CE), involved in intensive salt production. Evidence suggests that, during this period, the inhabitants of Marco Gonzalez traded extensively with other Maya sites. The abundant pottery that litters the site is made from mixtures of clay and quartz; since there is no available source of these materials on Ambergris Caye, they (or perhaps even the pots themselves) must have been brought to the site from overseas. Other artefacts at the site, such as chert and flint tools and other granite artefacts, minor jade and obsidian, were also obviously imported from elsewhere since the materials have no natural source anywhere on Ambergris Caye. The site's setting on the tip of the island may have given it a strategic position on maritime trade routes that existed at the time.\n\nIn 1993, a geological history of southern Ambergris Caye and the Marco Gonzalez area was published by R.K. Dunn and S.J. Mazzullo, which provides a theory as to why the site was abruptly abandoned around 500 years ago. A representative cross-section of the site revealed evidence that, between roughly 2000 and 1000 years ago, the coastal geography changed from open, shallow sea to mangal swampland.\n\nRapid rising in sea levels caused by the melting of the last Pleistocene glaciers caused the geography of the coastal area around Marco Gonzalez to change. As sea levels rose, the coastline shifted to shelter the surrounding area from currents, allowing mangrove swamps to completely surround the site. Eventually, the encroachment of the surrounding jungle and swamplands made the site inhospitable, and the Maya abandoned it.\n\nThe discovery of artefacts below present sea level, and beneath the mangrove peats, indicated that the habitable area of the site was much larger in the past than now; and subsequently that the inhabitants moved to progressively higher ground as sea level rose and the swamps encroached upon them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43069524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43069524", "title": "Marxist philosophy", "text": "Marxist philosophy\n\nMarxist philosophy or Marxist theory are works in philosophy that are strongly influenced by Karl Marx's materialist approach to theory, or works written by Marxists. Marxist philosophy may be broadly divided into Western Marxism, which drew out of various sources, and the official philosophy in the Soviet Union, which enforced a rigid reading of Marx called dialectical materialism, in particular during the 1930s.\nMarxist philosophy is not a strictly defined sub-field of philosophy, because the diverse influence of Marxist theory has extended into fields as varied as aesthetics, ethics, ontology, epistemology, theoretical psychology and philosophy of science, as well as its obvious influence on political philosophy and the philosophy of history. The key characteristics of Marxism in philosophy are its materialism and its commitment to political practice as the end goal of all thought.\n\nMarxist theorist Louis Althusser, for example, defined philosophy as \"class struggle in theory\", thus radically separating himself from those who claimed philosophers could adopt a \"God's eye view\" as a purely neutral judge.\n\nThe philosopher Étienne Balibar wrote in 1996 that \"there is no Marxist philosophy and there never will be; on the other hand, Marx is more important for philosophy than ever before.\" So even the existence of Marxist philosophy is debatable (the answer may depend on what is meant by \"philosophy,\" a complicated question in itself). Balibar's remark is intended to explain the significance of the final line of Karl Marx's 11 \"Theses on Feuerbach\" (1845), which can be read as an epitaph for philosophy: \"The philosophers have only \"interpreted\" the world, in various ways; the point is to \"change\" it\".\n\nIf this claim (which Marx originally intended as a criticism of German Idealism and the more moderate Young Hegelians) is still more or less the case in the 21st century, as many Marxists would claim, then Marxist theory is in fact the practical continuation of the philosophical tradition, while much of philosophy is still politically irrelevant. Many critics, both philosophers outside Marxism and some Marxist philosophers, feel that this is too quick a dismissal of the post-Marxian philosophical tradition.\n\nMuch sophisticated and important thought has taken place after the writing of Marx and Engels; much or perhaps even all of it has been influenced, subtly or overtly, by Marxism. Simply dismissing all philosophy as sophistry might condemn Marxism to a simplistic empiricism or economism, crippling it in practice and making it comically simplistic at the level of theory.\n\nNonetheless, the force of Marx's opposition to Hegelian idealism and to any \"philosophy\" divorced from political practice remains powerful even to a contemporary reader. Marxist and Marx-influenced 20th century theory, such as (to name a few random examples) the critical theory of the Frankfurt School, the political writing of Antonio Gramsci, and the neo-Marxism of Fredric Jameson, must take Marx's condemnation of philosophy into account, but many such thinkers also feel a strong need to remedy the perceived theoretical problems with orthodox Marxism.\n\nSuch problems might include a too-simple economic determinism, an untenable theory of ideology as \"false consciousness,\" or a simplistic model of state power rather than hegemony. So Marxist philosophy must continue to take account of advances in the theory of politics developed after Marx, but it must also be wary of a descent into theoreticism or the temptations of idealism.\n\nÉtienne Balibar claimed that if one philosopher could be called a \"Marxist philosopher\", that one would doubtlessly be Louis Althusser:\nAlthusser proposed a 'new definition' of philosophy as \"class struggle in theory\"... marxism had proper signification (and original \"problematic\") \"only\" insofar as it was the theory of \"the\" tendency towards communism, and \"in view\" of its realization. The criteria of acceptation or rejectal of a 'marxist' proposition was always the same, whether it was presented as 'epistemological' or as 'philosophical': it was in the act of rendering intelligible a \"communist policy\", or not.\" (\"Ecrits pour Althusser\", 1991, p.98). \n\nHowever, \"Althusser never ceased to put in question the \"images of communism\" that Marxist theory and ideology carried on: but he did it in the name of communism itself.\" Althusser thus criticized the evolutionist image which made of communism an ultimate stage of history, as well as the apocalyptic images which made it a \"society of transparence\", \"without contradiction\" nor ideology. Balibar observes that, in the end, Althusser enjoined the most sober definition of communism, exposed by Marx in \"The German Ideology\": \"Communism is \"not a state of the future, but the real movement which destroys the existing state of being.\".\"\n\nThere are endless interpretations of the \"philosophy of Marx\", from the interior of the Marxist movement as well as in its exterior. Although some have separated Marx's works between a \"young Marx\" (in particular the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\") and a \"mature Marx\" or also by separating it into purely philosophical works, economics works and political and historical interventions, Étienne Balibar (1993) has pointed out that Marx's works can be divided into \"economic works\" (\"Das Kapital\", 1867), \"philosophical works\" and \"historical works\" (\"The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte\", the 1871 \"Civil War in France\" which concerned the Paris Commune and acclaimed it as the first \"dictatorship of the proletariat\", etc.)\n\nMarx's philosophy is thus inextricably linked to his critique of political economy and to his historical interventions in the workers' movement, such as the 1875 \"Critique of the Gotha Program\" or \"The Communist Manifesto\", written with Engels (who was observing the Chartist movement) a year before the Revolutions of 1848. Both after the defeat of the French socialist movement during Louis Napoleon Bonaparte's 1851 coup and then after the crushing of the 1871 Paris Commune, Marx's thought transformed itself.\n\nMarxism's philosophical roots were thus commonly explained as derived from three sources: English political economy, French republicanism and radicalism, and German idealist philosophy. Although this \"three sources\" model is an oversimplification, it still has some measure of truth.\n\nOn the other hand, Costanzo Preve (1990) has assigned four \"masters\" to Marx: Epicurus (to whom he dedicated his thesis, \"Difference of natural philosophy between Democritus and Epicurus\", 1841) for his materialism and theory of clinamen which opened up a realm of liberty; Jean-Jacques Rousseau, from which come his idea of egalitarian democracy; Adam Smith, from whom came the idea that the grounds of property is labour; and finally Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.\n\n\"Vulgar Marxism\" (or codified dialectical materialism) was seen as little other than a variety of economic determinism, with the alleged determination of the ideological superstructure by the economical infrastructure. This positivist reading, which mostly based itself on Engels' latter writings in an attempt to theorize \"scientific socialism\" (an expression coined by Engels) has been challenged by Marxist theorists, such as Lukacs, Gramsci, Althusser or, more recently, Étienne Balibar.\n\nMarx developed a comprehensive, theoretical understanding of political reality early in his intellectual and activist career by means of a critical adoption and radicalization of the categories of 18th and 19th century German Idealist thought. Of particular importance is Hegel's appropriation of Aristotle's organicist and essentialist categories in the light of Kant's transcendental turn.\n\nMarx builds on four contributions Hegel makes to our philosophical understanding. They are: (1) the replacement of mechanism and atomism with Aristotelean categories of organicism and essentialism, (2) the idea that world history progresses through stages, (3) the difference between natural and historical (dialectical) change, and (4) the idea that dialectical change proceeds through contradictions in the thing itself.\n\n(1) Aristotelian Organicism and Essentialism\n\n(a) Hegel adopts the position that chance is not the basis of phenomena and that events are governed by laws. Some have falsely attributed to Hegel the position that phenomena are governed by transcendent, supersensible ideas that ground them. On the contrary, Hegel argues for the organic unity between universal and particular. Particulars are not mere token types of universals; rather, they relate to each other as a part relates to a whole. This latter has import for Marx's own conception of law and necessity.\n\n(b) In rejecting the idea that laws merely describe or independently ground phenomena, Hegel revives the Aristotlean position that law or principle is something implicit in a thing, a potentiality which is not actual but which is in the process of becoming actual. This means that if we want to know the principle governing something, we have to observe its typical life-process and figure out its characteristic behavior. Observing an acorn on its own, we can never deduce that it is an oak tree. To figure out what the acorn is - and also what the oak tree is - we have to observe the line of development from one to the other.\n\n(c) The phenomena of history arise from a whole with an essence which undergoes transformation of form and which has an end or telos. For Hegel, the essence of humanity is freedom, and the telos of that essence is the actualization of that freedom. Like Aristotle, Hegel believes the essence of a thing is revealed in the entire, typical process of development of that thing. Looked at purely formally, human society has a natural line of development in accordance with its essence just like any other living thing. This process of development appears as a succession of stages of world history.\n\n(2) The Stages of World History\n\nHuman history passes through several stages, in each of which is materialized a higher level of human consciousness of freedom. Each stage also has its own principle or law according to which it develops and lives in accordance with this freedom. Yet the law is not free-standing. It is delivered by means of the actions of men which spring from their needs, passions, and interests. Teleology, according to Hegel, is not opposed to the efficient causation provided by passion; on the contrary, the latter is the vehicle realizing the former. Hegel consistently lays more stress on passion than on the more historically specifiable interests of men. Marx will reverse this priority.\n\n(3) The Difference Between Natural and Historical Change\n\nHegel distinguishes as Aristotle did not between the application of organic, essentialist categories to the realm of human history and the realm of organic nature. According to Hegel, human history strives toward perfectibility, but nature does not. Marx deepens and expands this idea into the claim that humankind itself can adapt society to its own purposes rather than adapting themselves to it.\n\nNatural and historical change, according to Hegel, have two different kinds of essences. Organic natural entities develop through a straightforward process, relatively simple to comprehend at least in outline. Historical development, however, is a more complex process. Its specific difference is its \"dialectical\" character. The process of natural development occurs in a relatively straight line from the germ to the fully realized being and back to the germ again. Some accident from the outside might come along to interrupt this process of development, but if left to its own devices, it proceeds in a relatively straightforward manner.\n\nSociety's historical development is internally more complex. The transaction from potentiality to actuality is mediated by consciousness and will. The essence realized in the development of human society is freedom, but freedom is precisely that ability to negate the smooth line of development and go off in novel, hitherto unforeseen directions. As humankind's essence reveals itself, that revelation is at the same time the subversion of itself. Spirit is constantly at war with itself. This appears as the contradictions constituting the essence of Spirit.\n\n(4) Contradiction\n\nIn the development of a natural thing, there is by and large no contradiction between the process of development and the way that development must appear. So the transition from an acorn, to an oak, to an acorn again occurs in a relatively uninterrupted flow of the acorn back to itself again. When change in the essence takes place, as it does in the process of evolution, we can understand the change mostly in mechanical terms using principles of genetics and natural selection.\n\nThe historical process, however, never attempts to preserve an essence in the first place. Rather, it develops an essence through successive forms. This means that at any moment on the path of historical change, there is a contradiction between what exists and what is in the process of coming-to-be. The realization of a natural thing like a tree is a process that by and large points back toward itself: every step of the process takes place in order to reproduce the genus. In the historical process, however, what exists, what is actual, is imperfect. It is inimical to the potential. What is trying to come into existence - freedom - inherently negates everything preceding it and everything existing, since no actual existing human institution can possibly embody pure human freedom. So the actual is both itself and its opposite (as potential). And this potential (freedom) is never inert but constantly exerts an impulse toward change.\n\nMarx did not study directly with Hegel, but after Hegel died Marx studied under one of Hegel's pupils, Bruno Bauer, a leader of the circle of Young Hegelians to whom Marx attached himself. However, Marx and Engels came to disagree with Bruno Bauer and the rest of the Young Hegelians about socialism and also about the usage of Hegel's dialectic. Having achieved his thesis on the \"Difference of natural philosophy between Democritus and Epicurus\" in 1841, the young Marx progressively broke away with the Prussian university and its teachings impregnated by German Idealism (Kant, Fichte, Schelling and Hegel).\n\nAlong with Engels, who observed the Chartist movement in the United Kingdom, he cut away with the environment in which he grew up and encountered the proletariat in France and Germany. He then wrote a scathing criticism of the Young Hegelians in two books, \"The Holy Family\" (1845), and \"The German Ideology\" (1845), in which he criticized not only Bauer but also Max Stirner's \"The Ego and Its Own\" (1844), considered as one of the founding book of individualist anarchism. Max Stirner claimed that all ideals were inherently alienating, and that replacing God with Humanity, as did Ludwig Feuerbach in \"The Essence of Christianity\" (1841), was not sufficient. According to Stirner, any ideals, God, Humanity, the Nation, or even the Revolution alienated the \"Ego\". Marx also criticized Proudhon, who had become famous with his cry \"Property is theft!\", in \"The Poverty of Philosophy\" (1845).\n\nMarx's early writings are thus a response towards Hegel, German Idealism and a break with the rest of the Young Hegelians. Marx, \"stood Hegel on his head,\" in his own view of his role, by turning the idealistic dialectic into a materialistic one, in proposing that material circumstances shape ideas, instead of the other way around. In this, Marx was following the lead of Feuerbach. His theory of alienation, developed in the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" (published in 1932), inspired itself from Feuerbach's critique of the alienation of Man in God through the objectivation of all his inherent characteristics (thus man projected on God all qualities which are in fact man's own quality which defines the \"human nature\").\n\nBut Marx also criticized Feuerbach for being insufficiently materialistic, as Stirner himself had pointed out, and explained that the alienation described by the Young Hegelians was in fact the result of the structure of the economy itself. Furthermore, he criticized Feuerbach's conception of human nature in his sixth thesis on Feuerbach as an abstract \"kind\" which incarnated itself in each singular individual: \"Feuerbach resolves the essence of religion into the essence of man (\"menschliche Wesen\", human nature). But the essence of man is no abstraction inherent in each single individual. In reality, it is the ensemble of the social relations.\"\n\nThereupon, instead of founding itself on the singular, concrete individual subject, as did classic philosophy, including contractualism (Hobbes, John Locke and Rousseau) but also political economy, Marx began with the totality of social relations: labour, language and all which constitute our human existence. He claimed that individualism was the result of commodity fetishism or alienation. Some critics have claimed that meant that Marx enforced a strict social determinism which destroyed the possibility of free will.\n\nIn the same way, following Babeuf, considered as one of the founder of communism during the French Revolution, he criticized the 1789 \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" as a \"bourgeois declaration\" of the rights of the \"egoistic individual\", ultimately based on the \"right to private property\", which economism deduced from its own implicit \"philosophy of the subject\", which asserts the preeminence of an individual and universal subject over social relations. On the other hand, Marx also criticized Bentham's utilitarianism.\n\nAlongside Freud, Nietzsche, and Durkheim, Marx thus takes a place amongst the 19th century philosophers who criticized this pre-eminence of the subject and its consciousness. Instead, Marx saw consciousness as political. According to Marx, the recognition of these individual rights was the result of the universal extension of market relations to all of society and to all of the world, first through the primitive accumulation of capital (including the first period of European colonialism) and then through the globalization of the capitalist sphere. Such individual rights were the symmetric of the \"right for the labourer\" to \"freely\" sell his labor force on the marketplace through juridical contracts, and worked in the same time as an ideological means to discompose the collective grouping of producers required by the Industrial Revolution: thus, in the same time that the Industrial Era requires masses to concentrate themselves in factories and in cities, the individualist, \"bourgeois\" ideology separated themselves as competing homo economicus.\n\nMarx's critique of the ideology of the human rights thus departs from the counterrevolutionary critique by Edmund Burke, who dismissed the \"rights of Man\" in favour of the \"rights of the individual\": it is not grounded on an opposition to the Enlightenment's universalism and humanist project on behalf of the right of tradition, as in Burke's case, but rather on the claim that the ideology of economism and the ideology of the human rights are the reverse sides of the same coin. However, as Étienne Balibar puts it, \"the accent put on those contradictions can not not ring out on the signification of 'human rights', since these therefore appears \"both\" as the language in which exploitation masks itself and as the one in which the exploited class struggle express itself: more than a truth or an illusion, it is therefore a \"stake\"\". \"Das Kapital\" ironizes on the \"pompous catalogue of the human rights\" in comparison to the \"modest \"Magna Charta\" of a day work limited by law\":\n\nBut the communist revolution does not end with the negation of individual liberty and equality (\"collectivism\"), but with the \"negation of the negation\": \"individual property\" in the capitalist regime is in fact the \"expropriation of the immediate producers.\" \"Self-earned private property, that is based, so to say, on the fusing together of the isolated, independent laboring-individual with the conditions of his labor, is supplanted by capitalistic private property, which rests on exploitation of the nominally free labor of others, i.e., on wage-labor... The capitalist mode of appropriation, the result of the capitalist mode of production, produces capitalist private property. This is the first negation of individual private property, as founded on the labor of the proprietor. But capitalist production begets, with the inexorability of a law of Nature, its own negation. It is the negation of negation. This does not re-establish private property for the producer, but gives him individual property based on the acquisition of the capitalist era: i.e., on co-operation and the possession in common of the land and of the means of production.\n\nWhat distinguished Marx from Feuerbach was his view of Feuerbach's humanism as excessively abstract, and so no less ahistorical and idealist than what it purported to replace, namely the reified notion of God found in institutional Christianity that legitimized the repressive power of the Prussian state. Instead, Marx aspired to give ontological priority to what he called the \"real life process\" of real human beings, as he and Engels said in \"The German Ideology\" (1846):\n\nIn direct contrast to German philosophy, which descends from heaven to earth, here we ascend from earth to heaven. That is to say, we do not set out from what men say, imagine, conceive, nor from men as narrated, thought of, imagined, conceived, in order to arrive at men in the flesh. We set out from real, active men, and on the basis of their real life process we demonstrate the development of the ideological reflexes and echoes of this life process. The phantoms formed in the human brain are also, necessarily, sublimates of their material life process, which is empirically verifiable and bound to material premises. Morality, religion, metaphysics, all the rest of ideology and their corresponding forms of consciousness, thus no longer retain the semblance of independence. They have no history, no development; but men, developing their material production and their material intercourse, alter, along with this, their real existence, their thinking, and the products of their thinking. Life is not determined by consciousness, but consciousness by life.\n\nAlso, in his \"Theses on Feuerbach\" (1845), in which the young Marx broke with Feuerbach's idealism, he writes that \"the philosophers have only described the world, in various ways, the point is to change it,\" and his materialist approach allows for and empowers such change. This opposition between various subjective interpretations given by philosophers, which may be, in a sense, compared with \"Weltanschauung\" designed to legitimize the current state of affairs, and effective transformation of the world through \"praxis\", which combines theory and practice in a materialist way, is what distinguish \"Marxist philosophers\" with the rest of philosophers.\n\nIndeed, Marx's break with German Idealism involves a new definition of philosophy; Louis Althusser, founder of \"Structural Marxism\" in the 1960s, would define it as \"class struggle in theory\". Marx's movement away from university philosophy and towards the workers' movement is thus inextricably linked to his rupture with his earlier writings, which pushed Marxist commentators to speak of a \"young Marx\" and a \"mature Marx\", although the nature of this cut poses problems.\n\nA year before the Revolutions of 1848, Marx and Engels thus wrote \"The Communist Manifesto\", which was prepared to an imminent revolution, and ended with the famous cry: \"Proletarians of all countries, unite!\". However, Marx's thought changed again following Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte's December 2, 1851 coup, which put an end to the French Second Republic and created the Second Empire which would last until the 1870 Franco-Prussian War.\n\nMarx thereby modified his theory of alienation exposed in the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\" and would later arrive to his theory of commodity fetishism, exposed in the first chapter of the first book of \"Das Kapital\" (1867). This abandonment of the early theory of alienation would be amply discussed, and several Marxist theorists, including Marxist humanists such as the Praxis School, would return to it. Others, such as Althusser, would claim that the \"epistemological break\" between the \"young Marx\" and the \"mature Marx\" was such that no comparisons could be done between both works, marking a shift to a \"scientific theory\" of society.\n\nIn 1844-5, when Marx was starting to settle his account with Hegel and the Young Hegelians in his writings, he critiqued the Young Hegelians for limiting the horizon of their critique to religion and not taking up the critique of the state and civil society as paramount. Indeed, in 1844, by the look of Marx's writings in that period (most famous of which is the \"Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844\", a text that most explicitly elaborated his theory of alienation), Marx's thinking could have taken at least three possible courses: the study of law, religion, and the state; the study of natural philosophy; and the study of political economy.\n\nHe chose the last as the predominant focus of his studies for the rest of his life, largely on account of his previous experience as the editor of the newspaper \"Rheinische Zeitung\" on whose pages he fought for freedom of expression against Prussian censorship and made a rather idealist, legal defense for the Moselle peasants' customary right of collecting wood in the forest (this right was at the point of being criminalized and privatized by the state). It was Marx's inability to penetrate beneath the legal and polemical surface of the latter issue to its materialist, economic, and social roots that prompted him to critically study political economy.\n\nMarx summarized the materialistic aspect of his theory of history, otherwise known as historical materialism (this term was coined by Engels and popularised by Karl Kautsky and Georgi Plekhanov), in the 1859 preface to \"A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy\":\n\nIn the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into definite relations, which are independent of their will, namely relations of production appropriate to a given stage in the development of their material forces of production. The totality of these relations of production constitutes the economic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legal and political superstructure and to which correspond definite forms of social consciousness. The mode of production of material life conditions the general process of social, political and intellectual life. It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but their social existence that determines their consciousness.\n\nIn this brief popularization of his ideas, Marx emphasized that social development sprang from the inherent contradictions within material life and the social superstructure. This notion is often understood as a simple historical narrative: primitive communism had developed into slave states. Slave states had developed into feudal societies. Those societies in turn became capitalist states, and those states would be overthrown by the self-conscious portion of their working-class, or proletariat, creating the conditions for socialism and, ultimately, a higher form of communism than that with which the whole process began. Marx illustrated his ideas most prominently by the development of capitalism from feudalism, and by the prediction of the development of socialism from capitalism.\n\nThe base-superstructure and stadialist formulations in the 1859 preface took on canonical status in the subsequent development of orthodox Marxism, in particular in dialectical materialism (\"diamat\", as it was known in the Soviet Union). They also gave way to a vulgar Marxism as plain economic determinism (or economism), which has been criticized by various Marxist theorists. \"Vulgar Marxism\" was seen as little other than a variety of economic determinism, with the alleged determination of the ideological superstructure by the economical infrastructure. However, this positivist reading, which mostly based itself on Engels' latter writings in an attempt to theorize \"scientific socialism\" (an expression coined by Engels) has been challenged by Marxist theorists, such as Antonio Gramsci or Althusser.\n\nSome believe that Marx regarded them merely as a shorthand summary of his huge ongoing work-in-progress (which was only published posthumously over a hundred years later as \"Grundrisse\"). These sprawling, voluminous notebooks that Marx put together for his research on political economy, particularly those materials associated with the study of \"primitive communism\" and pre-capitalist communal production, in fact, show a more radical turning \"Hegel on his head\" than heretofore acknowledged by most mainstream Marxists and Marxiologists.\n\nIn lieu of the Enlightenment belief in historical progress and stages espoused by Hegel (often in a racist, Eurocentric manner, as in his \"Lectures on the Philosophy of History\"), Marx pursues in these research notes a decidedly empirical approach to analyzing historical changes and different modes of production, emphasizing without forcing them into a teleological paradigm the rich varieties of communal productions throughout the world and the critical importance of collective working-class antagonism in the development of capitalism.\n\nMoreover, Marx's rejection of the necessity of bourgeois revolution and appreciation of the obschina, the communal land system, in Russia in his letter to Vera Zasulich; respect for the egalitarian culture of North African Muslim commoners found in his letters from Algeria; and sympathetic and searching investigation of the global commons and indigenous cultures and practices in his notebooks, including the \"Ethnological Notebooks\" that he kept during his last years, all point to a historical Marx who was continuously developing his ideas until his deathbed and does not fit into any pre-existing ideological straitjacket.\n\nSome varieties of Marxist philosophy are strongly influenced by Hegel, emphasizing totality and even teleology: for example, the work of Georg Lukács, whose influence extends to contemporary thinkers like Fredric Jameson. Others consider \"totality\" merely another version of Hegel's \"spirit,\" and thus condemn it as a crippling, secret idealism.\n\nTheodor Adorno, a leading philosopher of the Frankfurt School, who was strongly influenced by Hegel, tried to take a middle path between these extremes: Adorno contradicted Hegel's motto \"the true is the whole\" with his new version, \"the whole is the false,\" but he wished to preserve critical theory as a negative, oppositional version of the utopia described by Hegel's \"spirit.\" Adorno believed in totality and human potential as ends to be striven for, but not as certainties.\n\nThe status of humanism in Marxist thought has been quite contentious. Many Marxists, especially Hegelian Marxists and also those committed to political programs (such as many Communist Parties), have been strongly humanist. These humanist Marxists believe that Marxism describes the true potential of human beings, and that this potential can be fulfilled in collective freedom after the Communist revolution has removed capitalism's constraints and subjugations of humanity. A particular version of the humanism within the marxism is represented by the school of Lev Vygotsky and his school in theoretical psychology (Alexis Leontiev, Laszlo Garai). The Praxis school based its theory on the writings of the young Marx, emphasizing the humanist and dialectical aspects thereof.\n\nHowever, other Marxists, especially those influenced by Louis Althusser, are just as strongly anti-humanist. Anti-humanist Marxists believe that ideas like \"humanity,\" \"freedom,\" and \"human potential\" are pure ideology, or theoretical versions of the bourgeois economic order. They feel that such concepts can only condemn Marxism to theoretical self-contradictions which may also hurt it politically.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "668391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668391", "title": "Mr. Bliss", "text": "Mr. Bliss\n\nMr. Bliss is a children's picture book by J. R. R. Tolkien, published posthumously in book form in 1982. One of Tolkien's least-known short works, it tells the story of Mr. Bliss and his first ride in his new motor-car. Many adventures follow: encounters with bears, angry neighbours, irate shopkeepers, and assorted collisions.\n\nThe story was inspired by Tolkien's own vehicular mishaps with his first car, purchased in 1932. The bears were based on toy bears owned by Tolkien's sons. Tolkien was both author and illustrator of the book. His narrative binds the story and illustrations tightly together, as the text often comments directly on the pictures.\n\nSeveral commentators have compared \"Mr. Bliss\" with the works of Beatrix Potter and Edward Lear, and also to \"The Wind in the Willows\".\n\n\"Mr. Bliss\" wasn't published during Tolkien's lifetime. He submitted it to his publishers as a balm to readers who were hungry for more from Tolkien after the success of \"The Hobbit\". The ink and coloured pencil illustrations would have made production costs prohibitively expensive. Tolkien agreed to redraw the pictures in a simpler style, but then found he didn't have time to do it. The manuscript lay in a drawer until 1957, when he sold it (as well as the original manuscripts of \"The Lord of the Rings\", \"The Hobbit\", and \"Farmer Giles of Ham\") to Marquette University for £1,250.\n\nThe book was published in 1982, with Tolkien's difficult-to-read handwritten story and illustrations on one page, and a typeset transcription on the facing page.\n\nTolkien used two names from \"Mr. Bliss\" for hobbits in \"The Lord of the Rings\": Gaffer Gamgee and Boffin.\n\n"}
{"id": "27155107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27155107", "title": "Nancy Dupree", "text": "Nancy Dupree\n\nNancy Hatch Dupree (October 3, 1927 – September 10, 2017) was an American historian whose work primarily focused on the history of modern Afghanistan. She was the director of the Afghanistan Center at Kabul University and author of five books that she compiled while studying the history of Afghanistan from 1962 until the late 1970s, writing about tourism and history of Kabul, Bamiyan and Balkh. She was fondly called the \"grandmother of Afghanistan\", having spent more of her life there or with Afghans abroad.\n\nNancy Dupree was born as Nancy Hatch in Cooperstown, New York. She spent most of her childhood in India. Her parents were working in Kerala, where her father was an adviser to the Maharaja of Travancore, Kerala. Her mother, a Broadway actress, was drawn to Indian art and theatrical dance forms and embarked on the first PhD on Kathakali by a foreign scholar.\n\nHatch graduated from Barnard College in 1949. She then went to Columbia University to study Chinese. She did her mastery in Chinese Art at Columbia University, but her life was linked to southern Asia in an inexorable manner. First married to an American intelligence officer, Alan D. Wolfe, posted in what was then called Ceylon, she later moved with her husband to Iraq, then Pakistan, and finally Afghanistan in 1962.\n\nDupree first arrived in Afghanistan in 1962 as a diplomat's wife. Shortly after she wrote the first guide in English to the Bamiyan Buddhas. Several years later, she met Louis Duprée, who was a renowned archaeologist and scholar of Afghan culture and history. The two fell in love and got married after divorcing their former spouses, marrying in the Bagh-e Bala Palace in 1966.\n\nAfter the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, Nancy was forced to leave the country, while Louis remained. Rather than return to the United States, she moved to a refugee camp in Peshawar, Pakistan. Louis was eventually arrested under suspicion of working for the Central Intelligence Agency as a spy. He then joined Nancy in Peshawar. While in the refugee camp, Nancy realized the potential for the loss of unique documents about Afghanistan to be lost or destroyed forever. In order to preserve these works and to teach them to a new generation, she and Louis formed the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief (ACBAR). They began to collect both government and non-government documents that related to the country's history, culture, the Soviet-Afghan War, the Mujahedeen, and the Taliban. Nancy said that in the looting that began after the Soviet invasion, many priceless books were sold to be used for fuel. A large number of books were also sold by weight to be used to wrap food. According to \"The Economist\", \"her networking prowess was so notorious that she was once approached, to see if she could help with permits to dig tunnels in Kabul, by the young Osama bin Laden.\"\n\nAfter the Coalition forces moved into Afghanistan in 2001, Nancy and Louis did not immediately move back, since Louis passed away in 1989. They were concerned for their own safety and that of ACBAR's collection, which by 1999 consisted of 7,739 titles written in Pashto, Dari (Persian), French, German, Norwegian, and Swedish. In 2005, Nancy moved back to Kabul and worked with the Afghan government to find a place to house ACBAR's collection. The collection was moved to Kabul University and the name was changed to the Afghan Collection at Kabul University. A $2 million building was completed to house the collection in 2012.\n\nDupree divided her time between Afghanistan and her other home in North Carolina.\n\nIn 2007, Nancy Hatch Dupree established the Louis and Nancy Hatch Dupree Foundation. It is a charitable organization that promotes research and raises awareness of the history and culture of Afghanistan. In addition, this organization also preserves Afghan cultural heritage. The organization's primary goal is to ensure the sustainability of the Afghanistan Center at Kabul University (ACKU). Programs offer Afghans from all walks of life, especially youth, incentives to acquire and employ information that will help them address the challenges of rebuilding their nation.\n\nThe organization has been able to achieve its overall goal by purchasing books and providing them to the schools in parts of Afghanistan that have never had a library. Due to regional instability, the organization has not been able to achieve all of its goals as an active NGO.\n\nDupree died after battling an illness in Kabul, Afghanistan, at the age of 89. President Ashraf Ghani and CEO Abdullah Abdullah offered their condolences. Ghani added that Nancy \"considered Afghanistan her real home and willed to be buried in Kabul next to the tomb of her husband.\" Former President Hamid Karzai said \"Nancy Dupree, a loving daughter of Afghanistan, is no more with us. May God bless her soul.\" and \"Afghanistan will keep her in affectionate memory.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7983553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983553", "title": "Osborn Bergin", "text": "Osborn Bergin\n\nOsborn Joseph Bergin (26 November 1873 – 6 October 1950) was a scholar of the Irish language and early Irish literature, who discovered Bergin's Law.\n\nHe was born in Cork, sixth child and eldest son of Osborn Roberts Bergin and Sarah Reddin, and was educated at Queen's College Cork (now University College Cork). He then went to Germany for advanced studies in Celtic languages, working with Heinrich Zimmer at the Friedrich Wilhelm University of Berlin (now the Humboldt University of Berlin) and later with Rudolf Thurneysen at the University of Freiburg, where he wrote his dissertation on palatalization in 1906. He then returned to Ireland and taught at the School of Irish Learning and at University College Dublin.\n\nWithin one year of becoming Director of the School of Irish Studies in the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies, Bergin resigned both the senior professorship and his office of director. The reason for his resignation was never made public. He died in a nursing-home in Dublin at the age of 76, having never married.\n\nBergin, who never used the name Joseph except when signing with his initials, did not seem to have felt the need of institutional religion, and during his lifetime, he rarely attended religious services. He developed Irish nationalist sympathies and remained a firm nationalist all his life but without party affiliations. From the number of Irish-speakers living in Cork, Bergin quickly mastered the spoken Irish of West Munster. By 1897, his knowledge of spoken and literary Modern Irish was so strong that he was appointed lecturer in Celtic in Queen's College, Cork. It was during this time that he became an active member of the Gaelic League.\n\nHe published extensively in the journal for Irish scholarship, \"Ériu\". He is best known for his discovery of Bergin's Law, which states that while the normal order of a sentence in Old Irish is verb-subject-object, it is permissible for the verb, in the conjunct form, to be placed at the end of the sentence. His friend Frank O'Connor wrote humorously that while he discovered the law \"he never really believed in it\". He wrote poetry in Irish and made a number of well-received translations of Old Irish love poetry.\n\nHe is celebrated in Brian O'Nolan's poem \"Binchy and Bergin and Best\", originally printed in the \"Cruiskeen Lawn\" column in the Irish Times and now included in \"The Best of Myles\". He was noted for his feuds with George Moore and William Butler Yeats, but he enjoyed a lifelong friendship with George William Russell. Frank O'Connor, another good friend, describes Bergin's eccentricities affectionately in his memoir \"My Father's Son\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21356223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21356223", "title": "Paul Robeson Jr.", "text": "Paul Robeson Jr.\n\nPaul Leroy Robeson Jr. (November 2, 1927 – April 26, 2014) was an American author, archivist and historian.\n\nRobeson was born in Brooklyn to entertainer and activist Paul Robeson and Eslanda Goode Robeson. As his family moved to Europe he grew up in England (visiting the St Mary's Town and Country School in London) and Moscow, in the Soviet Union. In Moscow he attended an elite school. The Robesons returned to the United States in 1939 to live first in Harlem, New York, and after 1941 in Enfield, Connecticut. Robeson graduated from Enfield High School and attended Cornell University where he graduated with a degree in electrical engineering in 1949.\n\nRobeson's paternal grandfather Reverend William Drew Robeson was born into slavery, escaped from a plantation in his teens and eventually became the minister of Princeton's Witherspoon Street Presbyterian Church in 1881. Robeson's paternal grandmother, Maria Louisa Bustill was from a prominent Quaker family of mixed ancestry: African, Anglo-American, and Lenape.\n\nRobeson worked on the legacy of his father, published a two-volume biography of him, and created an archive of his father's films, photographs, recordings, letters, and publications. As an advocate for social and racial justice he shared the political views of his father, indicating that \"like him, I am a black radical\". He was married to Marilyn Greenberg in 1949; the couple had two children, David (died 1998) and Susan, and one grandchild.\n\nRobeson died of lymphoma in Jersey City, New Jersey, in 2014.\n\nRobeson maintained on many occasions that his father \"never joined the Communist Party or any party for that matter -- he was an independent artist and would never submit to any kind of organizational discipline.\"\n\nOn his own politics he stated: \"I was much more an organized political person\", he said, adding that from about 1948 to 1962, he was a member of the Communist Party USA. \"It was an instrument, a radical instrument that could help advance the interests of African-Americans. It helped build the early civil-rights movement and independent trade union movement in the 1930s, '40s and '50s.\" He said he left the party in 1962 after \"it became bureaucratic and corrupt\".\n\nRobeson's father, Paul Sr., was one of his closest friends and protectors, traveling and living with him intermittently during his life. Following his father's death, Robeson Jr. worked extensively to establish the Paul Robeson Archive and the Paul Robeson Foundation. The archive, housed at Howard University's Moorland-Spingarn Research Center, is the largest repository in the Western hemisphere of Robeson documents and articles, totaling well over 50,000 items. He was of Igbo descent through his father.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56059296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56059296", "title": "Propsteikirche, Dortmund", "text": "Propsteikirche, Dortmund\n\nPropsteikirche is the common name of a church in Dortmund, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany, the only Catholic church in the city centre. The full name is Propsteikirche St. Johannes Baptist Dortmund. It was built from 1331 as the abbey church of a Dominican monastery. Consecrated in 1458, it features a late-Gothic high altar by Derick Baegert which shows the oldest depiction of Dortmund.\n\nThe church became the first Catholic church in Dortmund after the Reformation, a Propsteikirche from 1859. Destroyed in World War II, it was rebuilt until 1966. Its organ, built in 1988, makes it a concert venue. \n\nA Dominican abbey was founded in Dortmund in 1330, and a first abbey church was built from 1331 to 1353, consecrated in 1354, dedicated to John the Baptist. It was soon expanded to an Gothic hall church, begun in 1404 and consecrated in 1458. The church of a mendicant order, it was mainly a place for prayer and built simple and without a steeple. The abbey was dissolved during the secularization in 1816. The church became the first Catholic parish church in Dortmund after the Reformation in 1819. It was promoted to a in 1859. The former abbey buildings were used to house the priest and as school buildings.\n\nThe church was destroyed in World War II in 1943. Its most important art treasures had been removed, surviving the war. The church was rebuilt from 1947 to 1967. It is a listed monument.\n\nThe church features a late-Gothic high altar by Derick Baegert, focused on the themes of the Passion and Crucifixion. It shows in the background of the left panel the oldest depiction of Dortmund.\n\nThe present organ was built in 1988 by . It is often used for concerts and recordings. It is a universal organ with 52 stops on three manuals and pedal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37436505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37436505", "title": "Roman Brandstaetter", "text": "Roman Brandstaetter\n\nRoman Brandstaetter (January 3, 1906 – September 28, 1987) was a Polish-Jewish writer, poet, playwright, journalist and translator.\n\nRoman Brandstaetter was born in Tarnów, to a religious Jewish family, being the grandson of rabbi Mordechai David Brandstaedter. Roman Brandstaetter graduated from the Jagiellonian University in Kraków with a degree in philosophy and Polish and taught in a Jewish high school in Warsaw.\n\nBeginning in 1927, he published poetry and critical essays in the publications \"Chwila\" and \"Nowy Dziennik\". In 1928, he published his first volume of poetry, titled \"Jarzma\" (\"Yokes\"). He wrote exclusively in Polish and actively participated in literary discussions, and was also interested in history. A particular focus for him was the problem of assimilation, which in the Polish context took on additional dimensions and meaning. In his work \"Tragedie Juliana Klaczki\" (\"The Tragedy of Julian Klaczko\") (1933), for example, he described the fate of assimilated Jews in Poland during the partitions. His study titled Legion żydowski Adama Mickiewicza (\"Adam Mickiewicz's Jewish Legion\") (1932) stirred a great controversy; in it, he depicted the great Polish Romantic poet 's initiative as being the precursor to the Zionist program, and as a result was criticized by Tadeusz Boy-Żeleński, among others.\n\nIn 1933-35, Brandstaetter was the director of the literary section of a Zionist Polish-language publication called \"Opinia\", in which he published his programmatic article \"Sprawa poezji polsko-żydowskiej\" (\"The Problem of Polish-Jewish Poetry\") (1933). This text remains one of the most important analyses regarding this topic. It launched a discussion about Polish Jewish poets writing in Polish who, according to Brandstaetter, \"breathed [...] the Jewish national spirit into the Polish language of poetry\".\n\nBrandstaetter published the following volumes of poetry: Droga pod górę (\"Uphill Road\") (1931), Węzły i miecze (\"Knots and Swords\") (1932), Królestwo trzeciej świątyni (\"Kingdom of the Third Temple\") (1933) and Jerozolima światła i mroku (\"Jerusalem of Light and Darkness\") (1935). During the interwar period [1918-1939], they became a pretext for vicious anti-Semitic attacks on their author. The poet's reaction was a brilliant essay titled Zmowa eunuchów (\"Conspiracy of the Eunuchs\") (1936).\n\nAfter the start of the Second World War, Brandstaetter was in Vilnius. In 1940, he left that city, and through Moscow, Baku and Iran went to the Middle East; in Palestine, he worked for the Polish Telegraph Agency. This was an unusual period for him in many respects: though he decided to convert to Christianity at that time, it must be emphasized that he never abandoned Jewish traditions, something which he himself often stressed.\n\nIn 1946, Brandstaetter left Palestine for Rome, where he served as cultural attaché at the Polish embassy and was baptized.\nDuring his stay in Rome, Roman Brandstaette married Regina Wiktor. \nIt must be emphasized that he never abandoned his Jewish roots or background, something he often spoke about and was very proud of.\n\nIn 1948, he returned to Poland, where he settled in Poznań. After the war, he wrote, among other things, the following works: a poetry anthology titled Słowo nad słowami (\"The Word Over Words\") (1964); Cztery poematy biblijne (\"Four Biblical Poems\") (1972); and a four-part novel titled Jezus z Nazaretu (\"Jesus of Nazareth\") (1967–73). As the titles themselves suggest, these works address Biblical themes, interpreted in the context of one individual's experience, which join two different traditions. An excellent example of this is also his biographical novel, Krąg biblijny (\"Bible Study Group\") (1975). He also draws on the tradition of Chasidic parables, apparent in his work Inne kwiatki świętego Franciszka z Asyżu (\"Other Little Flowers of St. Francis of Assisi\") (1976).\n\nBrandstaetter also wrote historical plays, such as Powrót syna marnotrawnego (\"Return of the Prodigal Son\") (1944) - a play based on Rembrandt's biography; Noce narodowe (\"Nights of the Nation\") (1946–48), Znaki wolności (\"Signs of Freedom\") (1953), Marchołt (1954), and Teatr świętego Franciszka (\"Theater of St. Francis\") (before 1958). His story Ja jestem Żyd z 'Wesela' (\"I am the Jew from 'Wesele' \") (1972; 1981) attracted much attention. The work was a literary dialogue with the text of one of the greatest Polish plays by Stanisław Wyspiański, Wesele (\"The Wedding\"). Brandstaetter's story was adapted for radio, theater and television. Roman Brandstaetter also translated works from Hebrew, including Psalter (1968), German, English (Shakespeare's works), French, Dutch and Czech.\n\nHe also wrote extensively for the Polish Catholic press, including the Catholic weekly magazine, \"Tygodnik Powszechny\", consolidating his reputation as one of Poland’s leading religious writers.\n\nBrandstaetter died in Poznań on September 28, 1987 of a heart attack. He was buried next to his wife Regina, née Brochwicz-Wiktor (who died a year earlier) in the Milostowo Cemetery in Poznań.\n\nBrandstaetter’s biography reflects the dramatic experiences and radical ideological choices facing twentieth-century Jewish intelligentsia. His life was shaped by Zionism and, later, Catholicism, while his literary output synthesized Jewish, Polish, Christian, and Greek and Roman traditions. His program for Polish Jewish literature called on writers to serve the cause of Zionism, while his interwar poetry relied on classical poetics to address universal and national Jewish themes, especially biblical ones. Cross-fertilization between Judaism and Christianity is central to Brandstaetter’s postwar works, including his best-known novel, Jezus z Nazarethu—an epic about Christ written in biblical style, exegetic in approach. The figure of Christ, shown against the background of first-century Palestine, is presented in historical context, while the Gospels are interpreted as continuing the tradition of the Old Testament. The novel’s language is rooted in biblical imagery, symbols, and parables, and uses biblical literary techniques.\n\nCritics have praised Brandstaetter’s lyric poetry for its function of “hermeneutics of the Judeo-Christian tradition,” as Wojciech Gutowski has termed it, while autobiographical works portray the writer as a bicultural artist, scion of a family rooted in Haskalah. His grandfather, the writer Mordekhai Brandstetter (1844–1928), often appears in Roman Brandstaetter’s work offering insights into values underlying Jewish life.\n\n"}
{"id": "14746300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14746300", "title": "Round hand", "text": "Round hand\n\nRound Hand (also Roundhand) is a type of handwriting and calligraphy originating in England in the 1660s primarily by the writing masters John Ayres and William Banson. Characterised by an open flowing hand (style) and subtle contrast of thick and thin strokes deriving from metal pointed nibs, Round Hand's popularity grew rapidly, becoming codified as a standard, through the publication of printed writing manuals.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, writing masters of the Apostolic Camera developed the \"italic cursiva\" script. When the Apostolic Camera was destroyed during the sack of Rome in 1527, many masters moved to Southern France where they began to refine the renaissance ' script into a new script, '. By the end of the 16th century, ' began to replace '. ' was further adapted into the French style ' in the early 17th century.\n\nBy the mid-17th century, French officials were flooded with documents written in various hands (styles) at varied levels of skills and artistry. As a result, officials began to complain that many such documents were beyond their ability to decipher. France's Controller-General of Finances took proposals from French writing masters of the time, the most influential being , who had published his ', circa 1650. After examining the proposals, the Controller-General of Finances decided to restrict all legal documents to three hands, namely the ', the ', and a \"Speed Hand\" sometimes simply called '.\n\nIn England, Edward Cocker had been publishing copybooks based upon French ' in the 1640s. In the 1680s, John Ayres and William Banson popularized their versions of ' after further refining and developing it into what had become known as English round hand style.\n\nLater in the 17th and 18th centuries, English writing masters including George Bickham, George Shelley and Charles Snell helped to propagate Round Hand's popularity, so that by the mid-18th century the Round Hand style had spread across Europe and crossed the Atlantic to North America. The typefaces Snell Roundhand and Kuenstler Script are based on this style of handwriting. George Snell was particularly noted for his reaction to other variants of roundhand, developing his own Snell Roundhand which emphasised restraint and proportionality in the script.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37475757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37475757", "title": "Schweizerisches Idiotikon", "text": "Schweizerisches Idiotikon\n\nSchweizerisches Idiotikon (\"the Swiss idioticon\", also known as \"Wörterbuch der schweizerdeutschen Sprache\" \"Dictionary of the Swiss German language\") is an ongoing, major project of lexicography of the Swiss German dialects. Publication began in 1881 and is projected to be complete by 2022. Its scope includes the language since the end of the classical Middle High German period (13th century) and as such also represents the historical dictionary of the dialects of German-speaking Switzerland, and is one of the most detailed treatments of the Early Modern High German language in general. \n\nThe history of the project began in 1862 with the foundation of a \"Verein für das Schweizerdeutsche Wörterbuch\", led by Friedrich Staub (1826–1896). Originally envisaged as a dictionary in four volumes, the first fascicle was published in 1881. From 1896, the project was led by Albert Bachmann (1863–1934), under whose editorship, the scope and depth of the project was greatly expanded; Bachmann endeavored to put the \"Idiotikon\" on the level with the other \"national dictionary\" projects edited in Germanic Europe at the time, the \"Deutsches Wörterbuch\", \"Woordenboek der Nederlandsche Taal\", \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and \"Svenska Akademiens ordbok\". In this sense, the \"Idiotikon\" is the \"national dictionary\" of Alemannic Switzerland. \n\nAfter Bachmann's death in 1934, the project was led by five editors-in-chief: Otto Gröger (1934–1951), Hans Wanner (1951–1974), Peter Dalcher (1974–1991), Peter Ott (1991–2005) and Hans-Peter Schifferle (2005 to present).\n\nBy 2012, 16 volumes had been published, covering the alphabet up to \"X\". Volume 17, projected as the final volume, is expected to appear during 2013–2025. All published portions have been publicly accessible online since 2010 at idiotikon.ch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6490247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6490247", "title": "Stone rubbing", "text": "Stone rubbing\n\nStone rubbing is the practice of creating an image of surface features of a stone on paper. The image records features such as natural textures, inscribed patterns or lettering. By rubbing hard rendering materials over the paper, pigment is deposited over protrusions and on edges; depressions remain unpigmented since the pliable paper moves away from the rendering material. Common rendering materials include charcoal, wax, graphite or inksticks. Over time, the practice of stone rubbing can cause permanent damage to cultural monuments due to abrasion. For an artist, stone rubbings can become an entire body of creative work that is framed and displayed.\n\nThe paper that has been used by Chinese scholars to transfer the calligraphy from stones is made from plant fiber. It can be used in two ways to retrieve the calligraphy. One way requires the paper to be dry and then adhered to the stone through a paste made with water and a starch that is made from rice or wheat. The paper is then tamped into the engravings on the stone. The other technique requires the paper to be wet and tamped into the engravings without a paste. \n\nAfter doing either of these techniques, an ink, created through grinding an ink stick and adding water one drop at a time to achieve the ideal consistency, is used to retrieve the calligraphy. The ink is stippled on with a cloth filled with the ink. The ink covers the paper without sinking into the engravings. When the paper is peeled off, the calligraphy engravings come out white, while everything else is black from the ink. \n\nMore commonly, people use butcher paper to create stone rubbings. The butcher paper is usually taped on to the stone or grave, which contains the inscription desired, with either masking or paint tape. Then, usually, charcoal or crayon is rubbed over the stone or grave, leaving the engravings untouched by the crayon. When the butcher paper is removed, the inscriptions should be readable because they are not marked with the crayon.\n\nIt can be helpful to clean the stone beforehand, to ensure optimum results. A soft brush and water is usually what works best to cleanse the stones. One should not use stiff or hard brushes, as they can scratch the stone. Also, one should not use cleaning solutions or mild detergents on the stones, as they can damage the stone. \n\nWhen stone rubbing, one should be careful with stones that are deteriorating, as they can collapse under pressure.\n\nGravestone rubbing also applies this technique to gravestones, often as a method of retrieving and conserving information about genealogy. For a genealogist, a gravestone rubbing may become a permanent record of death when a gravestone is rapidly deteriorating. \n\nRubbings are commonly made by visitors to the US Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Visitors use pencil and paper to copy the name of a family member or friend who died during the Vietnam War off of the wall. The rubbing forms a type of souvenir.\n\nGravestone rubbing can be used to teach about local history. The stone’s condition, art, and inscription can tell what was going on in an area at a specific time. Studying multiple gravestones in one specific area can give even more information about history.\n\n"}
{"id": "236424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236424", "title": "Street performance", "text": "Street performance\n\nStreet performance or busking is the act of performing in public places for gratuities. In many countries the rewards are generally in the form of money but other gratuities such as food, drink or gifts may be given. Street performance is practiced all over the world and dates back to antiquity. People engaging in this practice are called street performers or buskers.\n\nPerformances are anything that people find entertaining. Performers may do acrobatics, animal tricks, balloon twisting, caricatures, clowning, comedy, contortions, escapology, dance, singing, fire skills, flea circus, fortune-telling, juggling, magic, mime, living statue, musical performance, puppeteering, snake charming, storytelling or reciting poetry or prose, street art such as sketching and painting, street theatre, sword swallowing, and ventriloquism.\n\nThe term \"busking\" was first noted in the English language around the middle 1860s in Great Britain. The verb \"to busk\", from the word \"busker\", comes from the Spanish root word \"buscar\", with the meaning \"to seek\". The Spanish word \"buscar\" in turn evolved from the Indo-European word \"*bhudh-skō\" (\"to win, conquer\"). It was used for many street acts, and title of a famous Spanish book about one of them, \"El Buscón\". Today, the word is still used in Spanish but mostly relegated for female street sex workers, or women seeking to be set up as private mistress of married men.\n\nThere have been performances in public places for gratuities in every major culture in the world, dating back to antiquity. For many musicians street performance was the most common means of employment before the advent of recording and personal electronics. Prior to that, a person had to produce any music or entertainment, save for a few mechanical devices such as the barrel organ, the music box, and the piano roll. Organ grinders were commonly found busking in the old days.\n\nBusking is common among some Romani people. Romantic mention of Romani music, dancers and fortune tellers are found in all forms of song poetry, prose and lore. The Roma brought the word busking to England by way of their travels along the Mediterranean coast to Spain and the Atlantic Ocean and then up north to England and the rest of Europe.\n\nIn medieval France buskers were known by the terms troubadours and \"jongleurs\". In northern France they were known as trouveres. In old German buskers were known as Minnesingers and \"Spielleute\". In obsolete French it evolved to \"busquer\" for \"seek, prowl\" and was generally used to describe prostitutes. In Russia buskers are called skomorokh and their first recorded history appears around the 11th century.\n\nMariachis, Mexican bands that play a style of music by the same name, frequently busk when they perform while traveling through streets and plazas, as well as in restaurants and bars.\n\nAround the mid-19th century Japanese \"Chindonya\" started to be seen using their skills for advertising, and these street performers are still occasionally seen in Japan. Another Japanese street performance form dating from the Edo period is Nankin Tamasudare, in which the performer creates large figures using a bamboo mat.\n\nIn the United States, medicine shows proliferated in the 19th century. They were traveling vendors selling elixirs and potions to improve the health. They would often employ entertainment acts as a way of making the clients feel better. The people would often associate this feeling of well-being with the products sold. After these performances they would \"pass the hat\".\n\nOne-man bands have historically performed as buskers playing a variety of instruments simultaneously. One-man bands proliferated in urban areas in the 19th and early 20th centuries and still perform to this day. A current one-man band plays all their instruments acoustically usually combining a guitar, a harmonica, a drum and a tambourine. They may also include singing. Many still busk but some are booked to play at festivals and other events.\n\nFolk music has always been an important part of the busking scene. Cafe, restaurant, bar and pub busking is a mainstay of this art form. Two of the more famous folk singers are Woody Guthrie and Joan Baez. The delta bluesmen were mostly itinerant musicians emanating from the Mississippi Delta region of the USA around the early 1940s and on. B.B. King is one famous example who came from these roots.\n\nThe counterculture of the hippies of the 1960s occasionally staged \"be-ins\", which resembled some present-day busker festivals. Bands and performers would gather at public places and perform for free, passing the hat to make money. The San Francisco Bay Area was at the epicenter of this movement – be-ins were staged at Golden Gate Park and San Jose's Bee Stadium and other venues. Some of the bands that performed in this manner were Janis Joplin with Big Brother and the Holding Company, the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, Quicksilver Messenger Service, Country Joe and the Fish, Moby Grape and Jimi Hendrix.\n\nChristmas caroling can also be a form of busking, as wassailing included singing for alms, wassail or some other form of refreshment such as figgy pudding. In Ireland the traditional Wren Boys and in England Morris Dancing can be considered part of the busking tradition.\n\nIn India and Pakistan's Gujarati region Bhavai is a form of street art where there are plays enacted in the village, the barot or the village singer also is part of the local entertainment scene.\n\nIn the 2000s, some performers have begun \"Cyber Busking\". Artists post work or performances on the Internet for people to download or \"stream\" and if people like it they make a donation using PayPal.\n\nThere are three basic forms of street performance\n\n\"Circle shows\" are shows that tend to gather a crowd around them. They usually have a distinct beginning and end. Usually these are done in conjunction with street theatre, puppeteering, magicians, comedians, acrobats, jugglers and sometimes musicians. Circle shows can be the most lucrative. Sometimes the crowds attracted can be very large. A good busker will control the crowd so the patrons do not obstruct foot traffic.\n\n\"Walk-by acts\" are typically where the busker performs a musical, living statue or other act that does not have a distinct beginning or end and the public usually watch for a brief time. A walk by act may turn into a circle show if the act is unusual or very popular.\n\n\"Stoplight performers\" present their act and get contributions from vehicle occupants on a crosswalk while the traffic lights are red. A variety of disciplines can be used in such format (juggling, break dancing, even magic tricks). Because of the short period of time available to them, stoplight performers must have a very brief, condensed routine. This form is seen more commonly in Central and South America than elsewhere.\n\nBuskers collect donations and tips from the public in a variety of containers and by different methods depending on the type of busking they are performing. For walk by acts their instrument case or a special can or box is often used. For circle shows the performer will typically collect money at the end of the show, although some performers will also collect during the show to ensure all audience members have had a chance to show appreciation for their skills. Sometimes a performer will employ a \"bottler\", \"hat man\", or \"pitch man\" to collect money from the audience. The term \"bottler\" is a British term which originated following the use of the top half of a bottle to collect money. The bottle had a leather flap inserted in the bottle neck and a leather pouch attached. This design allowed coins to be put in the bottle but not allow them to be removed easily without the coins jingling against the glass. The first use of such contrivances was recorded by the famous Punch and Judy troupe of puppeteers in early Victorian times. Bottling itself can be an art form, and the difference between a good and a bad bottler can be crucial to the amount of money earned on a pitch. A good bottler is able to encourage audience members to give money. A bottler usually gets a cut of the money made on the pitch. Prior to the 20th century, it was common for buskers to use a trained monkey as a bottler. That practice has diminished or ceased in many countries due to changes in social attitudes and animal control laws. However some modern buskers use a device known as monkey stick which is a long stick with bottle caps or small cymbals attached to make a noise before a show or prior to making a collection.\n\nThe place where a performance occurs is called a \"pitch\". A good pitch can be the key to success as a busker. An act that might make money at one place and time may not work at all in another setting. Popular pitches tend to be public places with large volumes of pedestrian traffic, high visibility, low background noise and as few elements of interference as possible. Good locations may include tourist spots, popular parks, entertainment districts including lots of restaurants, cafes, bars and pubs and theaters, subways and bus stops, outside the entrances to large concerts and sporting events, almost any plaza or town square as well as zócalos in Latin America and piazzas in other regions. Other places include shopping malls, strip malls, and outside supermarkets, although permission is usually required from management for these.\n\nIn her book, \"Underground Harmonies: Music and Politics in the Subways of New York\", Susie J. Tanenbaum examined how the adage \"Music hath charms to soothe the savage beast\" plays out in regards to busking. Her sociological studies showed that in areas where buskers regularly perform, crime rates tended to go down, and that those with higher education attainment tended to have a more positive view of buskers than did those of lesser educational attainment. Some cities encourage busking in particular areas, giving preference to city government-approved buskers and even publishing schedules of performances.\n\nMany cities in the United States have particular areas known to be popular spots for buskers. Performers are found at many locations like Mallory Square in Key West, in New Orleans, in New York around Central Park, Washington Square, and the subway systems, in San Francisco, in Washington, D.C. around the transit centers, in Los Angeles around Venice Beach, the Santa Monica Third Street Promenade, and the Hollywood area, in Chicago on Maxwell Street, in the Delmar Loop district of St. Louis, and many other locations throughout the US.\nBusking is still quite common in Scotland, Ireland, and England with musicians and other street performers of varying talent levels.\n\nThe first recorded instances of laws affecting buskers were in ancient Rome in 462 BC. The Law of the Twelve Tables made it a crime to sing about or make parodies of the government or its officials in public places; the penalty was death. Louis the Pious \"excluded \"histriones\" and \"scurrae\", which included all entertainers without noble protection, from the privilege of justice\". In 1530 Henry VIII ordered the licensing of minstrels and players, fortune-tellers, pardoners and fencers, as well as beggars who could not work. If they did not obey they could be whipped on two consecutive days.\n\nIn the United States under constitutional law and most European common law, the protection of artistic free speech extends to busking. In the U.S. and many countries, the designated places for free speech behavior are the public parks, streets, sidewalks, thoroughfares and town squares or plazas. Under certain circumstances even private property may be open to buskers, particularly if it is open to the general public and busking does not interfere with its function and management allows it or other forms of free speech behaviors or has a history of doing so.\n\nWhile there is no universal code of conduct for buskers, there are common law practices which buskers must conform to. Most jurisdictions have corresponding statutory law. In the UK busking regulation is not universal with most laws (if there are any) being governed local councils. Some towns in the British Isles limit the licenses issued to bagpipers because of the volume and difficulty of the instrument. In Great Britain places requiring licenses for buskers may also require auditions of anyone applying for a busking license. Oxford City Council have decided to enact a public space protection order. Some venues that do not regulate busking may still ask performers to abide by voluntary rules. Some places require a special permit to use electronically amplified sound and may have limits on the volume of sound produced. It is common law that buskers or others should not impede pedestrian traffic flow, block or otherwise obstruct entrances or exits, or do things that endanger the public. It is common law that any disturbing or noisy behaviors may not be conducted after certain hours in the night. These curfew limitations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. It is common law that \"performing blue\" (i.e. using material that is sexually explicit or any vulgar or obscene remarks or gestures) is generally prohibited unless performing for an adults-only environment such as in a bar or pub.\n\nIn London, busking is prohibited in the entire borough of the City of London. The London Underground provides busking permits in tube stations. Most London boroughs do not license busking, but they have optional powers, under the London Local Authorities Act 2000, if there is sufficient reason to do so. Where these powers have not been adopted, Councils can rely on other legislation including the Environmental Protection Act 1990 to deal with noise nuisance from buskers and the Highways Act to deal with obstructions. Camden Council is currently looking into further options to control the problem of nuisance buskers and the playing of amplified music to the detriment of local residents and businesses.\n\nBuskers may find themselves targeted by thieves due to the very open and public nature of their craft. Buskers may have their earnings, instruments or props stolen. One particular technique that thieves use against buskers is to pretend to make a donation while actually taking money out instead, a practice known as \"dipping\" or \"skimming\". George Burns described his days as a youthful busker this way:\n\n\nOrganisations\n\nPress\n\nOther\n"}
{"id": "2350364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2350364", "title": "Television crew", "text": "Television crew\n\nTelevision crew positions are derived from those of film crew, but with several differences.\n\n\nThe scenic designer collaborates with the theatre director and other members of the production design team to create an environment for the production, and then communicates details of this environment to the technical director, production manager, charge artist, and property master. Scenic designers create scale models of the scenery, artistic renderings, paint elevations, and scale construction drawings to communicate with other production staff.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditionally, more senior members of a television show's writing staff are credited as producers, with the specific title dependent upon the seniority and rate of pay for the writer. For example, a writer credited as a \"co-executive producer\" will typically receive a higher salary and be considered more senior than a writer credited as a \"producer\", who will in turn be higher \"ranking\" than a writer credited as \"co-producer.\"\n\nScreenwriters or scenarists or scriptwriters create short or feature-length screenplays for films and television programs.\n\nIn television and live event production, the A1 is the primary audio engineer responsible for the technical design and operation of associated sound systems (eg. mixers, microphones, intercom, IFB, RF equipment, PA/monitoring, music/sfx playback, multi-track recording, and more). Generally speaking, the A1 supervises all audio crew members during build, rehearsal, and show phases of any production. Ultimately, the A1 will have routed, recorded, and mixed all sound sources heard during the program broadcast.\n\nThe A2 helps get microphones or other audio devices to the right place or to the right person \n\n\n\n\n\nThe publicist ensures the media are well aware of a project by distributing the show as a trial run or sneak preview. They issue press releases and arrange interviews with cast and crew members. They may arrange public visits to the set, or distribute media kits that contain pictures, posters, clips, shorts, trailers, and descriptions of the show.\n\n"}
{"id": "78776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78776", "title": "Urania", "text": "Urania\n\nUrania (; , \"Ourania\"; meaning \"heavenly\" or \"of heaven\") was, in Greek mythology, the muse of astronomy.\n\nUrania was the daughter of Zeus by Mnemosyne and also a great granddaughter of Uranus. Some accounts list her as the mother of the musician Linus by Apollo or Amphimarus, son of Poseidon, and Hymenaeus also is said to have been a son of Urania.\n\nUrania is often associated with Universal Love and the Holy Spirit. Sometimes identified as the eldest of the divine sisters, Urania inherited Zeus' majesty and power and the beauty and grace of her mother Mnemosyne.\n\nUrania dresses in a cloak embroidered with stars and keeps her eyes and attention focused on the Heavens. She is usually represented with a celestial globe to which she points with a little staff. She is able to foretell the future by the arrangement of the stars.\n\nThose who are most concerned with philosophy and the heavens are dearest to her. Those who have been instructed by her she raises aloft to heaven, for it is a fact that imagination and the power of thought lift men's souls to heavenly heights.\"Urania, o'er her star-bespangled lyre,\"<br>\"With touch of majesty diffused her soul;\"<br>\"A thousand tones, that in the breast inspire,\"<br>\"Exalted feelings, o er the wires'gan roll—\"<br>\"How at the call of Jove the mist unfurled,\"<br>\"And o'er the swelling vault—the glowing sky,\"<br>\"The new-born stars hung out their lamps on high,\"<br>\"And rolled their mighty orbs to music's sweetest sound.\"—From \"An Ode To Music\" by James G. PercivalDuring the Renaissance, Urania began to be considered the Muse for Christian poets. In the invocation to Book 7 of John Milton's epic poem \"Paradise Lost\", the poet invokes Urania to aid his narration of the creation of the cosmos, though he cautions that it is \"[t]he meaning, not the name I call\" (7.5)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2143634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2143634", "title": "Water-meadow", "text": "Water-meadow\n\nA water-meadow (also water meadow or watermeadow) is an area of grassland subject to controlled irrigation to increase agricultural productivity. Water-meadows were mainly used in Europe from the 16th to the early 20th centuries. Working water-meadows have now largely disappeared, but the field patterns and water channels of derelict water-meadows remain common in areas where they were used, such as parts of Northern Italy, Switzerland and England. Derelict water-meadows are often of importance as wetland wildlife habitats.\n\nWater-meadows should not be confused with flood-meadows, which are naturally covered in shallow water by seasonal flooding from a river. \"Water-meadow\" is sometimes used more loosely to mean any level grassland beside a river.\n\nTwo main types of water-meadow were used.\n\nThese were used for fields on slopes, and relatively little engineering skill was required to construct them. Water from a stream or spring was fed to the top of a sloping field, and gentle sloping terraces were formed along which the water could trickle in a zig-zag fashion down the field. The water could be used again for fields lower down the slope.\n\n\"Bedwork\" or \"floated\" water-meadows were built on almost-level fields along broad river valleys, and required careful construction to ensure correct operation.\n\nA leat, called a \"main\", \"carrier\" or \"top carrier\", was used to divert water from the river and carry it down the valley at a gentler slope than the river, producing a hydrostatic head between the two. Mains were often along the edge of the valley, each main supplying up to about of the valley. The water from the main was used to supply many smaller carriers, on the crests of ridges built across the fields. The channel on the crest of each ridge would overflow slowly down the sides (the \"panes\") of the ridge, the channel eventually tapering to an end at the tip of the ridge. The seeping water would then be collected between the ridges, in \"drains\" or \"drawns\", these joining to form a \"bottom carrier\" or \"tail drain\" which returned the water to the river. The ridges and the drains made an interlocking grid (like interlaced fingers), but the ridge-top channels and the drains did not connect directly. A \"by-carrier\" took any water not needed for irrigation straight from the main back to the river. The ridges varied in height depending on the available head – usually from around . The pattern of carriers and drains was generally regular, but it was adapted to fit the natural topography of the ground and the locations of suitable places for the offtake and return of water.\n\nThe water flow was controlled by a system of \"hatches\" (sluice gates) and \"stops\" (small earth or wooden-board dams). Irrigation could be provided separately for each section of water-meadow. Sometimes aqueducts took carriers over drains, and causeways and culverts provided access for wagons. The \"working\" or \"floating\" (irrigation) and maintenance of the water-meadow was done by a highly skilled craftsman called a \"drowner\" or \"waterman\", who was often employed by several adjacent farmers.\n\nThe terminology used for watermeadows varied considerably with locality and dialect.\n\nWater-meadow irrigation did not aim to flood the ground, but to keep it continuously damp – a working water-meadow has no standing water. Irrigation in early spring kept frosts off the ground and so allowed grass to grow several weeks earlier than otherwise, and in dry summer weather irrigation kept the grass growing. It also allowed the ground to absorb any plant nutrients or silt carried by the river water – this fertilised the grassland, and incidentally also reduced eutrophication of the river water by nutrient pollution. The grass was used both for making hay and for grazing by livestock (usually cattle or sheep).\n\nFormer water-meadows are found along many river valleys, where the sluice gates, channels and field ridges may still be visible (however the ridges should not be confused with ridge and furrow topography, which is found on drier ground and has a very different origin in arable farming). The drains in a derelict water-meadow are generally clogged and wet, and most of the carrier channels are dry, with the smaller ones on the ridge-tops often invisible. If any main carrier channels still flow, they usually connect permanently to the by-carriers. The larger sluices may be concealed under the roots of trees (such as crack willows), which have grown up from seedlings established in the brickwork. The complex mixture of wet and drier ground often gives derelict water-meadows particularly high wetland biodiversity.\n\nDerelict water-meadows can be transformed into wildlife protection and conservation areas by repairing the irrigation, as is the case of Josefov Meadows in the Czech Republic. By imitating the natural river flooding which is rare in modern straightened and dammed rivers, a rich biodiversity can be restored and attract and sustain many rare and protected wetland species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4067097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4067097", "title": "Wolfsegg Iron", "text": "Wolfsegg Iron\n\nThe Wolfsegg Iron, also known as the Salzburg Cube, is a small cuboid mass of iron that was found buried in Tertiary lignite in Wolfsegg am Hausruck, Austria, in 1885. It weighs 785 grams and measures . Four of its sides are roughly flat, while the two remaining sides (opposite each other) are convex. A fairly deep groove is incised all the way around the object, about mid-way up its height.\n\nThe Wolfsegg Iron became notable when it was claimed to be an out-of-place artifact: a worked iron cube found buried in a 20-million-year-old coal seam. It was originally identified by scientists as being of meteoric origin, a suggestion later ruled out by analysis. It seems most likely that it is a piece of cast iron used as ballast in mining machinery, deposited during mining efforts before it was found apparently within the seam.\n\nEarly descriptions of the object appeared in contemporary editions of the scientific journals \"Nature\" and \"L'Astronomie\", the object identified by scientists as being a fossil meteorite. It was reported that the object was discovered when a workman at the Braun iron foundry in Schöndorf, Austria, was breaking up a block of lignite that had been mined at Wolfsegg. In 1886, mining engineer Adolf Gurlt reported on the object to the Natural History Society of Bonn, noting that the object was coated with a thin layer of rust, was made of iron, and had a specific gravity of 7.75.\n\nA plaster cast was made of the object shortly before the end of the 19th century, as the original had suffered from being handled, and had had samples cut from it by researchers.\n\nThe object was analysed in 1966–1967 by the Vienna Naturhistorisches Museum using electron beam micro-analysis, which found no traces of nickel, chromium or cobalt in the iron, suggesting that it was not of meteoric origin, while the lack of sulfur indicated that it is not a pyrite. Because of its low magnesium content, Dr. Gero Kurat of the museum and Dr. Rudolf Grill of the Federal Geological Office in Vienna thought that it might be cast iron, Grill suggesting that similar rough lumps had been used as ballast in early mining machinery.\n\nThe cast is currently kept in the Oberösterreichischen Landesmuseen in Linz, Austria, where the original object was also exhibited from 1950 to 1958, while the original cuboid is held by the Heimathaus Museum of Vöcklabruck, Austria.\n\nThe Wolfsegg Iron is claimed by some as an out-of-place artifact (OOPArt), and it is often stated as a fact in paranormal literature that it disappeared without trace in 1910, from the Salzburg Museum. In fact, as mentioned above, it is at the Heimathaus Museum in Vöcklabruck, Austria, which is where the above photo was taken. It has also erroneously been described as \"a perfectly machined steel cube\".\n"}
{"id": "15711741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711741", "title": "Yasir Suleiman", "text": "Yasir Suleiman\n\nYasir Suleiman CBE is the Sultan Qaboos Bin Said Professor of Modern Arabic Studies at the University of Cambridge. He is a Palestinian Arab living in diaspora.\n\nHe lectures nationally and internationally on various topics related to the Middle East.\n\nHe was selected to be a trustee of the International Prize for Arabic Fiction (2007—2009).\n\nHe was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2011 Birthday Honours for services to scholarship.\n\nIn addition to authoring books, Yasir Suleiman was an editor of a number of monographs is Arabic studies.\n"}
