{"id": "46571178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46571178", "title": "Ann O'Leary", "text": "Ann O'Leary\n\nAnn M. O'Leary (born 1971) is an American political advisor, lawyer, and nonprofit leader. Earlier in her career, she served as a senior policy advisor in the Bill Clinton Administration and as legislative director to Senator Hillary Clinton. Following her federal government service, she helped establish multiple non-profit organizations promoting progressive policy related to income inequality, healthcare, education, and workforce development. She served as a senior policy advisor to Hillary Clinton's 2016 Presidential Campaign and as co-executive director of the Clinton-Kaine Transition Project. After the 2016 Presidential election, O'Leary became a partner at the Palo Alto office of Boies, Schiller, & Flexner, where her practice has focused on strategic consulting and crisis management.\n\nO'Leary was born and raised in Orono, Maine. She is the daughter of Charles John \"Chick\" O'Leary, a union leader, and Pamela Braley O'Leary, a social worker. She is of Irish descent.\n\nAfter graduating from Orono High School, O'Leary attended Mount Holyoke College, where she was a member of the College Democrats. She earned a B.A. in critical social thought in 1993, an M.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Education in 1997, and a J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley School of Law in 2005.\n\nO'Leary began her career as a volunteer in the Clinton administration. She later worked as a Special Assistant to the President at the White House Domestic Policy Council. She also advised First Lady Hillary Clinton, acting as a liaison between Hillary Clinton's and President Bill Clinton's policy teams. In an August 2000 memo to Bill Clinton's Domestic Policy Adviser Bruce Reed, O'Leary urged the government to consider an executive order banning federal contractors from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation, similar to one issued in 1941 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt banning them from race-based discrimination. \n\nFrom 2001 to 2003, O'Leary was Hillary Clinton's Senate aide and legislative director. She oversaw a \"wide range of issues,\" including passage of the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act.\n\nFollowing her service in the U.S. Senate, O'Leary attended and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley School of Law in 2005. She clerked for Judge John T. Noonan, Jr. of the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Following her judicial clerkship, O'Leary served as a deputy city attorney for the City of San Francisco, where she provided counsel to city agencies and served on the City Attorney's Affirmative Litigation Task Force. As a deputy city attorney, she helped develop the strategy to combat predatory lending practices by payday lenders, which resulted in a $7.5 million settlement for low-income victims.\n\nIn 2008, O'Leary was appointed as a Lecturer and the founding Executive Director of the Center on Health, Economic & Family Security at the University of California, Berkeley School of Law. From 2008 to 2015, she also served as a Senior Fellow with the Center for American Progress. She published work regarding a variety of policy issues, including the international competitiveness of the American workforce. After President Barack Obama was elected, O'Leary advised his transition team on early childhood education.\n\nIn 2011, O'Leary was appointed as a Senior Vice President at Next Generation, a non-profit organization promoting progressive policy to address economic inequality and climate change.\n\nO'Leary was recognized for her policy leadership in 2015 as one of Politico's Top 50 Thinkers, Doers, and Visionaries Transforming American Politics.\n\nDuring the 2016 Presidential Campaign, O'Leary served as one of three senior policy advisors to Hillary Clinton, focusing on developing policy related to health, education, labor, and economic security. For her role in the campaign, O'Leary was named to the Politico Top 50 list for a second consecutive year. \n\nIn August 2016, O'Leary was appointed as co-executive director of Clinton's transition team in Washington, D.C, \n\nAfter the 2016 election, O'Leary joined the Palo Alto office of an international law firm as a partner, where her practice focused on strategic consulting and crisis management. She has advised multiple high-profile organizations, including the Silicon Valley Community Foundation as it investigated and navigated allegations of a toxic work environment. A team of lawyers led by O'Leary published a report that found \"many allegations from current and former employees were substantiated,\" and made recommendations for reform that were adopted by the Foundation's board in full.\n\nO'Leary also represented numerous clients on a pro bono basis, including law professors in defending California's Sanctuary City laws, the National Women's Law Center in combating workplace sexual harassment, and Mark Barnes and Leana Wen in providing a public health perspective to a case involving Connecticut's response to the threat of an Ebola outbreak.\n\nIn 2002, O'Leary married Goodwin Liu, now a justice on the California Supreme Court. They have two children. On August 30, 2016, O'Leary and Liu announced in a joint statement that they were separating.\n"}
{"id": "2568388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2568388", "title": "Apagón", "text": "Apagón\n\nApagón (in Spanish, literally, \"blackout\") is a form of protest that was employed several times in some large cities of Argentina, during the economic crisis at the beginning of the 2000s. The justification for a blackout as a form of protest was a rejection of the proposed increase of fees of electricity and other basic services.\n\nDuring the 1990s, under the Menem administration, the Convertibility Law guaranteed a fixed exchange rate of 1 U. S. dollar per Argentine peso, and the private companies that supplied electric power, telephone service, natural gas and drinking water, among others, earned consistently high profits, which could be turned into dollars and sent abroad with no loss. A number of these service providers had also secured dollarized fees, contracts that entitled them to ask for increases in their fees subject to the inflation of the United States, and other provisions of the kind.\n\nAfter the uncontrolled devaluation of the peso in 2002, the profit measured in dollars was diminished proportionally, and their local operating costs in pesos skyrocketed. The service companies asked the national government of Argentina to authorize considerable fee increases (in some cases over 100%). The Duhalde administration rejected the possibility for a while, but finally called for consultation meetings to discuss the matter.\n\nThe public reacted angrily to this, accusing the private companies of being greedy and oblivious to the dangerously unstable social environment: half of the population was under the poverty line, unemployment was over 20%, and inflation continued rising. On September 19, 2002, political activists and organizations (Elisa Carrió's \"ARI\", other left-wing parties, piqueteros, the \"Central de Trabajadores Argentinos\", neighbourhood assemblies, etc.) gathered in Plaza de Mayo and called for a widespread intentional \"blackout\".\n\nOn September 24, between 8 and 8.15 p.m., in Buenos Aires and some other large cities, people turned off the lights in their houses and apartments. Many businesses closed their doors and also diminished the lights. In the streets, drivers honked their horns, and there were isolated cacerolazos. The Legislative building of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires turned off the illumination of its facade.\n\nThe actual strength of the blackout was relatively minor, and even then it was mostly concentrated in Buenos Aires, but the combination of the protests was marked by the media. The government postponed the renegotiation of public service fees indefinitely.\n\nIn Spain, since November 2011 there is also a campaign named A-pagón: No pagues centrales nucleares y de carbón (A-pagón: Don't pay for nuclear and coal-fired power stations) related to the avoiding of the augmentative term \"pagón\" which could be translated as \"big payer\". The campaign's idea is \"Don't pay for electricity until it is produced by 100%-renewable-and-clean methods\".\n\nThe activists of this campaign argue that \"If you don't pay electricity until it would be clean, all the electricity company can do is to disconnect you for a minute, which is the time you need to reconnect it\", and also states that \"You must maintain always the meter count: in this way the dirty company knows the money it has not incoming, due to using dirty means to produce the electricity\".\n"}
{"id": "1417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1417", "title": "August 14", "text": "August 14\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42015223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42015223", "title": "Avion Pirata", "text": "Avion Pirata\n\nAvion Pirata (Pirate Airplane) is the name given by Bolivians to a Lockheed Constellation which mysteriously carried flights into El Trompillo Airport in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, during 1961. The airplane has remained in Bolivia since 1961, when it was forced to land by the Bolivian Air Force after a chase in which an Air Force Captain died in a crash.\n\nThe airplane has become a tourist attraction, having undergone several changes of ownership, and has also become an urban legend among Bolivians.\n\nThe airplane is a Lockheed Constellation with the registration N2520B, which at the time of the incident was registered to Lloyd Airlines of Miami, Florida (not to be confused with Lloyd Aereo Boliviano, the then flag-carrier of Bolivia). According to AeroTransport Data Bank the airplane was sold to a Brandon Anderson in 1958. The airplane had previously flown for Braniff International Airways and Trans American Airlines before being acquired by the Empire Supply Company in 1960, months before the incident happened. A model airplane of this aircraft exists, as Corgi Toys released a model of the Constellation under Braniff livery.\n\nDuring some time before N2520B's final flight, Constellations had been conducting night flights to El Trompillo Airport. Locals believe that these transported goods to Buenos Aires, Argentina and Arica, Chile, among other destinations, from the United States, such as cigarettes, textiles, whiskey, socks, television sets and contraband items.\n\nOn Saturday, 29 July 1961, the airplane landed at El Trompillo Airport, and rested there until 30 July, when it took off southward. The plane's occupants had not filed a flight plan; instead they said they were carrying a practice-only flight. Immediately after take-off, Trompillo control tower alerted the Fuerza Aerea Boliviana, which sent P-51 Mustang fighters to chase it. The P-51 pilots and the control tower asked the plane's crew to fly to Cochabamba, but the crew ignored the request.\n\nThe P-51s then proceeded to shoot at the airplane, making the Constellation crew attempt an emergency landing at El Trompillo Airport. As the aircraft descended, the crew dived in a final attempt at getting the P-51's to call off their pursuit, causing one pilot, Captain Alberto Peredo Céspedes, to crash fatally. The Constellation itself landed at El Trompillo, and the crew members were arrested on site. The aircraft's tires were blown up and the local military airline, TAM, flew soldiers in from Cochabamba to prevent the airport from being overtaken by guerrillas.\n\nFollowing the incident, Bolivian President Victor Paz Estenssoro, ordered an investigation which yielded the arrest of 85 soldiers and dishonorable discharge of 130 more. Also arrested were pilots William Roy Robinson and William Friedman, co-pilot Salvatore Henrique Romano, flight engineer Bertrand Vinson and radio-man Gene Hawkins. The case and its investigation became known nationally in Bolivia as the \"caso Constellation\".\n\nThe four Americans and one Brazilian (Henrique Romano) were charged with homicide, piracy, violation of international laws and contraband. After being incarcerated at Panoptico de La Paz jail, three of them were given provisional freedom and two were admitted into a local hospital under the supervision of American vice-consul in Bolivia at the time, Samuel Karp.\n\nIn November 1961, it was announced that the airplane's crew had escaped Bolivia. They were tried \"in absentia\", and in 1967, the case's prosecutor asked for ten years of prison for each crew-member. Ultimately, none of the five men on the airplane returned to Bolivia and four of them remain at large.\n\nPilot William Roy Robinson died on 1 April 2010, aged 90, and is buried in the family cemetery, San Mateo, Florida.\n\nOn 25 August 1961, a local judge assigned a Bolivian Air Force Commander as keeper of the airplane and the contents that it had during its last flight, as compensation for the P-51 lost during the plane's chase. But the La Paz district's customs department prevented this from actually taking place, and the plane became the property of the FAB's Military Aviation College instead. In 1979, the airplane was moved to Boris Banzer Prada Park at Uruguay avenue in Santa Cruz from El Trompillo airport, as it was given to Santa Cruz's city hall, which decided to place it at barrio El Tao, where the park is located.\n\nThe plane was later transformed into a library, and it was later used as a Banco de Credito de Bolivia branch after having fallen into disrepair and being restored. It has been used for advertisement purposes by Pepsi and Aerosur, the now defunct major local airline. The airplane was reported by a television news show to be in disrepair late in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2611775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611775", "title": "Baskerville effect", "text": "Baskerville effect\n\nThe Baskerville effect, or the Hound of the Baskervilles effect is the discredited idea that there is an increase in rate of mortality through heart attacks on days considered unlucky because of the psychological stress this causes on superstitious people. The term derives from the Sherlock Holmes novel \"The Hound of the Baskervilles\" in which a hellish-looking dog chases Sir Charles Baskerville, sufferer of a chronic heart disease. According to legend, the dog cursed his family, Baskerville runs in great fear and dies of a heart attack \"with an expression of horror in his face\".\n\nThe Baskerville effect was named by David Phillips and his colleagues at the University of California, San Diego, on a paper where they reported that the daily number of deaths of Chinese and Japanese Americans from heart attacks between 1973 and 1998 was 7% higher on the fourth of the month compared to the average for the other days in that month, while this was not observed in the general American population.\n\nFour (四, formal writing: 肆, pinyin si4) is considered an unlucky number in Chinese, and hence in the Japanese and Korean, because it sounds like \"death\" (死 pinyin si3). Some Chinese and Japanese hotels and hospitals do not use it as a room number. The authors, seeing how telephone line subscribers could choose the last four digits in their telephone numbers, found evidence that the number 4 is avoided among Chinese and Japanese Americans by searching the California Yellow Pages for telephone numbers of Chinese and Japanese restaurants, and finding that these had significantly fewer numbers 4 in this last section (366 out of 4748, or 7.71%) than it would be expected by chance (10%), a pattern not observed on restaurants listed as American.\n\nTheir hypothesis was that the peak was caused by stress induced by the superstition surrounding this number.\n\nIn 2002, Gary Smith commented that Phillips and colleagues had omitted data from several heart disease categories, picking only those that happened to have a higher rate on the fourth day, calling them \"chronic heart diseases\". Smith also pointed out that they had not done this on their previous studies of Jewish deaths near Passover and Chinese deaths near the Harvest Moon, where they had used all heart disease categories.\n\nSmith also found no statistically relevant peaks on day 4 in data from 1969-1988 and 1999-2001 for total coronary deaths, inpatients, or the subset of heart diseases used by Phillips and colleagues, adding that there were more deaths on day 5 in the 1969-1988 data, and more deaths on day 3 in the 1999-2001 data.\n\nIn 2003, Nirmal Panesar and colleagues looked for this effect on the Chinese population of Hong Kong. They looked at mortality data from 1995 to 2000, comparing the days of the month with \"deathly connotations\" (4, 14 and 24) with the other days of the month on both the Lunar and Gregorian calendars, and found no statistically significant difference.\n\nIn early 2018, Jonathan Jarry analysed this phenomenon, citing both Smith's and Panesar et al's papers, pointing out that, if the effect was real, a bigger effect would be seen in Asia, while the opposite occurs. Jarry states that the peak observed on the original study appears because of what the researchers decided to compare it to, and quotes epidemiologist Christopher Labos as concluding that “while the number of deaths on Day 4 may be higher than average, it is not actually statistically higher than any individual day.”\n"}
{"id": "17351535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17351535", "title": "Battle of Hyrba", "text": "Battle of Hyrba\n\nThe Battle of Hyrba was the first battle between the Persians and Medians, taking place around 552 BC. It was also the first battle after the Persians had revolted. These actions were led (for the most part) by Cyrus the Great, as he shifted the powers of the ancient Middle East. The Persian success in the battle led to the creation of Persia's first empire and began Cyrus's decade long conquest of almost all of the known world. Though the only authority with a detailed account of the battle was Nicolaus of Damascus, other well-known historians such as Herodotus, Ctesias, and Strabo also mention the battle in their own accounts.\n\nThe outcome of the battle was such a great blow to Medes that Astyages decided to personally invade Persia. The hasty invasion eventually led to his downfall. In turn, the former enemies of the Medes tried to move against them, only to be stopped by Cyrus. Thus a period of reconciliation began, which facilitated a close relationship between the Persians and Medes, and enabled Ecbatana, capital of Media, to pass to the Persians as one of Persia's capitals in the newly formed empire.\n\nThe battle occurred after the Persian Revolt, which is known to have taken place in the summer of 553 BC. Based on scant sources the battle (which was in Hyrba) is believed to have taken place at least half a year after the revolt had already begun, probably in the beginning of winter in 552 BC. Astyages, the king of Medes, who is thought to have also been Cyrus's grandfather, had earlier turned down the request of Cyrus to leave his court and visit his parents again, as he had done several times earlier. Though his request to Astyages was not unusual, Cyrus had made the mistake of asking him right after the revolt that had happened, but through the pleading of the Persian servant, Oebares, Astyages let him visit his parents again. In Herodotus' version, in one of the first times Cyrus had gone to his parents, the Median general Harpagus had secretly sent a letter stuffed in a hare to Cyrus to plot a revolt, and Cyrus passed the letter on to his father. This matches the account of Nicolaus in which he says that Cambyses I had already assembled many troops well before the battle had started, and that he later despatched a small number to Cyrus's aid. Cyrus sent a message to his father saying \"... send at once 1000 cavalry and 5000 foot-soldiers to the city of Hyrba which lay on the way, and to arm the rest of the Persians as quickly as possible in such a way that it should seem to be done by command of the king. His true aims he did not communicate to him.\" This also confirms the notion that the battle took place months, not days, after the revolt. Astyages' decision to let Cyrus return to his parents is considered by some to have changed history by eventually enabling the Persis province to become the most powerful state in the ancient world.\n\nCyrus was in Ecbatana when the revolt had already begun. In Nicolaus's account, when Cyrus was let go, he fled from Astyages because he knew he might eventually be executed if Astyages discovered that Cyrus's true motive was to join and fight alongside his father, if necessary. This is because when Cyrus was half way to becoming an adult he learned that Astyages had already tried to execute him when he was an infant, but it did not succeed, and as time passed, Astyages came to respect Cyrus for the similarities of character they shared. Meanwhile, Astyages was not sure if it was safe to let Cyrus return to his homeland. Astyages eventually did, and it helped terminate the Median kingdom. When Astyages was tricked by Harpagus twice into believing Cyrus was not a danger to him, even when the revolt and impending signs of danger had already happened, Cyrus saw how easily Astyages could be swindled. For this reason, Cyrus may have taken advantage of this to bring freedom to his own kingdom.\n\nMeanwhile, Astyages invited the best singer of the Medes, and the last song played by the professional minstrel that was also a Magus, named Angares, which was also accompanied by a girl, disturbed Astyages deeply.\n\nA fierce wild beast, \nmore fierce than any boar, \nwas let go, \nand sent into a sunny country and he should reign over all these provinces and should, \nwith a handful of men, \nmaintain war against large armies.\n\nAstyages tried to call Cyrus back again, but could not get him.\n\nConcerning the troops types, it is unknown whether or not the Persian infantry engaged in the battle. It is most likely Cyrus and the cavalry he had escaped with from Media fought directly with the Median cavalry Astyages had sent to bring Cyrus back. Cyrus might have known he needed all his men when fighting Astyages's best cavalry, for when battle had started, Cyrus with his will and superior numbers had the advantage. Nicolas goes as far as to say Cyrus first displayed his bravery in this battle. Nevertheless, Cyrus's tactics proved successful in maintaining the war. In Herodotus' \"Histories\", he hints the first battle between the Persians and Medes, which Harpagus goes over to Cyrus, and most of the Medes either joined Cyrus or were killed, with a small force escaping back to Media. This seems to go in accordance with Nicolaus' account of the first battle.\n\nWhile Cambyses met with his son and organized the 350,000+ men, Astyages armed men under and over age for fighting battles, and from all over the empire, to come. Purportedly with 1,205,000+ men, Astyages marched his troops out. Most historians consider this number fantastic, but others consider it as part of the reserves. This is because in the battles to come, no more than 200,000 men from either side would actually take to the field. When Astyages knew he had underestimated Cyrus, he knew putting down a revolt was not enough, but a massive invasion had to be carried out, so the invasion of Persia by Astyages began.\n\nThe battle was the first major blow to the Medes, as this was the first time in a long time that Media had been defeated in a battle. As Cyrus's first victory in the war, it did not go well with Astyages, the king of the Medes. It also caused the northern satraps to revolt, and ally their provinces with Persia. Years after the war, the Persians and Medes still held a deep appreciation of one another, and some Medes were allowed to become part of the Persian Immortals. Since the early 1900s this battle was almost forgotten to history. As most of its account comes from fragments, only in the later modern age historians have renewed interest in this (now considered) historic event which changed the ancient world. This is because the battle started a chain reaction of events which led Persia to become the most powerful state for the next quarter of a millennia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11890865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11890865", "title": "Beloit Riverfest", "text": "Beloit Riverfest\n\nThe Beloit Riverfest was an annual music festival held in July at Riverside Park in Beloit, Wisconsin. The festival attracted thousands of people from the Midwest, who came to see internationally known musicians perform. It billed itself as \"the largest rock festival of the Midwest\". In addition to music, the festival had a carnival, shops, and food vendors. Riverfest was held the second week of July and ran from Thursday through Sunday.\n\nThe Riverfest Board of Directors voted to discontinue the festival in 2013 because of reduced financial support and difficulty in recruiting new board members.\n\nGroups that have performed at Riverfest include:\n\n"}
{"id": "50350870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50350870", "title": "Boe-CFT", "text": "Boe-CFT\n\nBoe-CFT (Boeing Crew Flight Test) is the first crewed mission of the Boeing CST-100 Starliner to the International Space Station, and the second orbital flight test of the Starliner overall. It is scheduled for launch in August 2019 with a crew of three.\n\nThe second United Launch Alliance Atlas V N22 rocket, designated AV-082, will launch the CST-100 Starliner spacecraft with a crew of three. The vehicle will dock with the International Space Station, and return to Earth with a ground landing in the United States.\n\nBarry E. Wilmore will serve as backup for both Boe-CFT and for the first Starliner mission crews.\n\n"}
{"id": "31292414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31292414", "title": "Bullying in medicine", "text": "Bullying in medicine\n\nBullying in the medical profession is common, particularly of student or trainee physicians. It is thought that this is at least in part an outcome of conservative traditional hierarchical structures and teaching methods in the medical profession which may result in a bullying cycle.\n\nAccording to Field, bullies are attracted to the caring professions, such as medicine, by the opportunities to exercise power over vulnerable clients, employees and students.\n\nWhile the stereotype of a victim as a weak person who somehow deserves to be bullied is salient, there is growing evidence that bullies, who are often driven by jealousy and envy, pick on the highest performing and most skilled students, whose mere presence is sufficient to make the bully feel insecure. The victim are usually high academic achievers and are likely to have been top of the class throughout their school years. As medical students have to compete against each other, this can make certain trainee doctors eager to stand out from the crowd, and some use underhand techniques to gain academic recognition.\n\nThe rampant problem of medical student mistreatment and bullying was systematically studied and reported in a 1990 JAMA study by pediatrician Henry K. Silver which found that 46.4 percent of students at one medical school had been abused at some point during medical school; by the time they were seniors, that number was 80.6 percent.\n\nIn a 2002 test, 594 BMA members were randomly selected to complete a bullying survey, and 220 of the 594 junior doctors reported having been bullied in the previous year. This survey reported no variance in job grade or age.\n\nThreats (of exposure of inadequacy) must be ruthlessly controlled and subjugated. Psychological models such as transference and projection have been proposed to explain such behaviors, wherein the bully's sense of personal inadequacy is projected or transferred to a victim; through making others feel inadequate and subordinate, the bully thus vindicates their own sense of inferiority.\n\nDisplacement is another defense mechanism that can explain the propensity of many medical educators to bully students, and may operate subconsciously. Displacement entails the redirection of an impulse (usually aggression) onto a powerless substitute target. The target can be a person or an object that can serve as a symbolic substitute. Displacement can operate in chain-reactions, wherein people unwittingly become at once victims and perpetrators of displacement. For example, a resident physician may be undergoing stress with her patients or at home, but cannot express these feelings toward patients or toward her family members, so she channels these negative emotions toward vulnerable students in the form of intimidation, control or subjugation. The student then acts brashly toward a patient, channeling reactive emotions which cannot be directed back to the resident physician onto more vulnerable subjects.\n\nBeyond its ramifications for victims, disrespect and bullying in medicine is a threat to patient safety because it inhibits collegiality and cooperation essential to teamwork, cuts off communication, undermines morale, and inhibits compliance with and implementation of new practices.\n\nMedical training usually takes place in institutions that have a highly structured hierarchical system, and has traditionally involved teaching by intimidation and humiliation. Such practices may foster a culture of bullying and the setting up of a cycle of bullying, analogous to other cycles of abuse in which those who experience it go on to abuse others when they become more senior. Medical doctors are increasingly reporting to the British Medical Association that they are being bullied, often by older and more senior colleagues, many of whom were badly treated themselves when more junior.\n\nPhysician Jonathan Belsey relates in an emblematic narrative published in AMA Virtual Mentor entitled Teaching By Humiliation that \"however well you presented the case, somewhere along the line you would trip up and give the predatory professor his opportunity to expose your inadequacies. Sometimes it would be your lack of medical knowledge; sometimes the question that you failed to ask the patient that would have revealed the root of the problem, or sometimes your ineptitude at eliciting the required clinical signs. On one memorable occasion, when I had appeared to cover all the bases clinically, the professor turned to me and berated me for attending his ward round wearing a plaid shirt that was clearly inappropriate for an aspiring doctor.\"\n\nBullying can significantly decrease job satisfaction and increase job-induced stress; it also leads to low self-confidence, depression, anxiety and a desire to leave employment. Bullying contributes to high rates of staff turnover, high rates of sickness absence, impaired performance, lower productivity, poor team spirit and loss of trained staff. This has implications for the recruitment and retention of medical staff.\n\nChronic and current bullying are associated with substantially worse health, according to research by Laura M. Bogart, associate professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School.\n\nStudies have consistently shown that physicians have had the highest depression and suicide rates compared to people in many other lines of work—for suicide, 40% higher for male physicians and 130% higher for female physicians. Research has traced the beginning of this difference to the years spent in medical school. Students enter medical school with mental health profiles similar to those of their peers but end up experiencing depression, burnout, suicidal ideation and other mental illnesses at much higher rates. Despite better access to health care, they are more likely to cope by resorting to dysfunctional and self-injurious behaviors, and are less likely to receive the right care or even recognize that they need some kind of intervention.\n\nExposure to bullying and intimidation during formative years of medical training has been found to contribute to these consequences. Fear of stigmatisation among medical students was the subject of a study in JAMA by Thomas Schwenk and colleagues at the University of Michigan's Department of Family Medicine, MI, USA. 53% of medical students who reported high levels of depressive symptoms were worried that revealing their illness would be risky for their careers and 62% said asking for help would mean their coping skills were inadequate, according to the study published in September 2010. \"Medical students are under extraordinary demands. They feel they are making life and death decisions and that they can never be wrong. There is such tremendous pressure to be perfect that any sense of falling short makes them very anxious\", says Schwenk.\n\nMedical students, perhaps being vulnerable because of their relatively low status in health care settings, may experience verbal abuse, humiliation and harassment (nonsexual or sexual). Discrimination based on gender and race are less common.\n\nIn one study, around 35% of medical students reported having been bullied. Around one in four of the 1,000 students questioned said they had been bullied by a medical doctor. Furthermore, bullying has been known to occur among medical students. Manifestations of bullying include:\n\nOne study showed that the medical faculty was the faculty in which students were most commonly mistreated.\n\nBullying extends to postgraduate students.\n\nIn a UK study, 37% of junior doctors reported being bullied in the previous year and 84% had experienced at least one bullying behaviour. Black and Asian physicians were more likely to be bullied than other physicians . Women were more likely to be bullied than men.\n\nTrainee physicians who feel threatened in the clinical workplace develop less effectively and are less likely to ask for advice or help when they need it. Persistent destructive criticism, sarcastic comments and humiliation in front of colleagues\nwill cause all but the most resilient of trainees to lose confidence in themselves.\n\nConsultants who feel burnt out and alienated may take their disaffection out on junior colleagues.\n\nThe farewell interview from Sir Ian Kennedy (Chair of the Healthcare Commission) caused significant media interest following his statement that bullying is a 'corrosive' problem that the NHS must address.\nPsychiatric trainees experience rates of bullying at least as high as other medical students. In a survey of psychiatric trainees in the West Midlands, 47% had experienced bullying within the last year with even higher percentages amongst ethnic minorities and females. Qualified psychiatrists are not themselves required to be psychiatrically assessed.\n\nThere have been quite a few proven cases of doctors bullying and/or sexually harassing patients and nurses.\n\nSpeaking of many doctors' predilection for bullying nurses, Theresa Brown writes:\n...the most damaging bullying is not flagrant and does not fit the stereotype of a surgeon having a tantrum in the operating room. It is passive, like not answering pages or phone calls, and tends toward the subtle: condescension rather than outright abuse, and aggressive or sarcastic remarks rather than straightforward insults.\n\nNurses experience bullying quite frequently. It is thought that relational aggression (psychological aspects of bullying such as gossiping and intimidation) are commonplace. Relational aggression has been studied among girls but not so much among adult women.\n\nSir Lancelot Spratt, a character played by actor James Robertson Justice in the film series \"Doctor in the House\", is often referenced as the archetypal arrogant bullying doctor ruling by fear. The film series also demonstrates bullying of student doctors by other doctors and the nursing matron.\n\nIn the American sitcom \"Scrubs\", Dr. Cox uses intimidation and sarcasm as methods of tormenting the interns and expressing his dislike towards them and their company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41852868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41852868", "title": "Carolina Herrera Spring 2014 Ready-to-Wear Collection", "text": "Carolina Herrera Spring 2014 Ready-to-Wear Collection\n\nThe Carolina Herrera Spring 2014 Ready-to-Wear Collection was presented on September 9, 2013, during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week, at the Theatre in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center in New York. It was inspired by the Kinetic Art Movement, specifically Venezuelan artists Carlos Cruz-Diez and Jesus Rafael Soto. More than an abstract reference, Herrera manipulated design and fabrication to create a kinetic movement within her silhouette. The ethereal collection predominantly featured fluid dresses and long, flowing gowns, with only four of the 45 looks including loosely tailored pants. She juxtaposed sheer fabrications of tulle and meshlike insets in opposing patterns to create an optical illusion, then enhanced the depth and dimension with appliqués, embellishments, and geometric embroideries, which were partially sewn to create a fluttering effect. The neutral palette of ivory, black, and taupe was punctuated by vibrant tones of green, clay, pink, and mauve.\n\n“The Carolina Herrera woman has always been a classy, cosmopolitan character,\" noted Katharine K. Zarrella of Style.com. Backstage post-show, Carolina Herrera described her muse as “active and international, stopping in France one day and South America the next.” “You’re going to be dizzy!” she said at a preview of her spring 2014 collection with \"Vogue\". “It’s eye-popping!”\n\nHair stylist Orlando Pita was inspired by cone-shaped shells for his structured french twist. MAC Cosmetics artist Diane Kendall created a modern-day Twiggy look with the emphasis on the eyes and rosy pink blush.\n\nThe show was opened by supermodel Karlie Kloss, and celebrities in attendance included Uma Thurman, Christina Ricci, Michelle Dockery, Christina Hendricks, Graydon Carter, and Fran Lebowitz.\n\nThe soundtrack included music by Owen Pallett, Zoon van snooK and Rob Simonsen.\n"}
{"id": "23295153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23295153", "title": "Ceylon Citizenship Act", "text": "Ceylon Citizenship Act\n\nThe Ceylon Citizenship Act No. 18 of 1948 was a controversial law passed by the Ceylon Parliament which did not grant citizenship to Indian Tamils, who were 11% of the population.\n\nDuring the 19th and early 20th centuries the British rulers of Ceylon recruited large numbers of South Indians, primarily Indian Tamils, to work in tea, coffee, rubber and coconut plantations in Ceylon. By 1946 their numbers had grown to 780,000, 11.7% of the population. Their presence was resented by Sinhalese nationalists. There was real fear amongst the Indian Tamils that once Ceylon obtained independence, the Sinhalese, who constituted 69.4% of the population, would take steps to remove them from the country.\n\nShortly after independence on 4 February 1948 the new Sinhalese dominated government of Ceylon introduced the \"Ceylon Citizenship Bill\" before Parliament. The outward purpose of the Bill was to provide means of obtaining citizenship, but its real purpose was to discriminate against the Indian Tamils by denying them citizenship. The Bill stipulated that anyone wishing to obtain citizenship had to prove that their father was born in Ceylon i.e. that they were at least third generation immigrants. This was an impossible task for most Indian Tamils. Few were at least third generation immigrants because they tended to return to India to give birth. Those who were at least third-generation immigrants rarely had the necessary documents because they rarely registered births. Therefore, they could not prove the requirements for citizenship.\n\nThe Bill was opposed fiercely in Parliament by the Ceylon Indian Congress, which represented the Indian Tamils, and the Sinhalese leftist parties. The bill was also opposed by the All Ceylon Tamil Congress, which represented the Sri Lankan Tamils, including its leader G.G. Ponnambalam.\n\nThe Bill was passed by Parliament on 20 August 1948 and became law on 15 November 1948, just 285 days after Ceylon had gained independence from Britain. Only about 5,000 Indian Tamils qualified for citizenship. More than 700,000 people, about 11% of the population, were denied citizenship and made stateless.\n\nIn 1949 the Ceylon Parliament passed a different subsequent act called \"Indian and Pakistani Residents (Citizenship) Act No.3 of 1949\" whose outward purpose, again, was to provide means of obtaining citizenship for the Indian Tamils. But in reality the conditions imposed by the Act were such that they discriminated against the Indian Tamils. The Act granted citizenship to anyone who had 10 years of uninterrupted residence in Ceylon (7 years for married persons) and whose income was above the stipulated level. Again, this was an impossible task for most Indian Tamils. They had a habit of periodically returning to India, thereby interrupting their residence in Ceylon, and most could not meet the income qualification. Only about 100,000 Indian Tamils qualified for citizenship under this Act.\n\nLater in 1949 the Ceylon Parliament passed the \"Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) Amendment Act No.48 of 1949\" which stripped the Indian Tamils of their franchise. Seven of the 95 MPs elected at the 1947 general elections were Indian Tamils. Indian Tamils influenced the result in 20 other constituencies, very often voting for the opposition Sinhalese leftist parties. None of the 95 MPs elected at the 1952 general elections were Indian Tamils.\n\nOn 18 January 1954 Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Ceylon Prime Minister John Kotelawala signed the \"Nehru-Kotelawala Pact\" under which India agreed to the repatriation of any Indian Tamil who wanted Indian citizenship. But India refused to automatically provide Indian citizenship to those who did not qualify for Ceylon citizenship.\n\nOn 30 October 1964 Indian Prime Minister Lal Shastri and Ceylon Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike signed the \"Sirima-Shastri Pact\" (also known as the \"Indo-Ceylon Agreement\") under which India agreed to the repatriation of 525,000 Indian Tamils. Another 300,000 would be offered Ceylon citizenship. The fate of the remaining 150,000 Indian Tamils would be decided later.\n\nOn 28 June 1974 Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Ceylon Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike signed the \"Sirimavo-Gandhi Pact\" under which India and Sri Lanka agreed to grant citizenship to the 150,000 Indian Tamils whose status was left unresolved by the \"Sirima-Shastri Pact\".\n\nIn 1982 India abrogated the \"Sirima-Shastri Pact\" and \"Sirimavo-Gandhi Pact\". At this point 90,000 Indian Tamils who had been granted Indian citizenship were still in Sri Lanka and another 86,000 were in the process of applying for Indian citizenship.\n\nIn 1988 the Sri Lankan Parliament passed the \"Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons Act\" which granted Sri Lankan citizenship to all Indian Tamils who hadn't applied for Indian citizenship under previous agreements.\n\nOn 7 October 2003 the Sri Lankan Parliament unanimously passed the \"Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin Act No.35 of 2003\" which granted Sri Lankan citizenship to all Indian Tamils who had been residing in Sri Lanka since October 1964 and their descendents. This amounted to 168,141 persons and included those who had been granted Indian citizenship under previous agreements but were still living in Sri Lanka, though they had to rescind their Indian citizenship. All Indian Tamils living in Sri Lanka had finally been granted Sri Lankan citizenship, 55 years after independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "3925336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3925336", "title": "Charity fraud", "text": "Charity fraud\n\nCharity fraud is the act of using deception to get money from people who believe they are making donations to charities. Often a person or a group of people will make material representations that they are a charity or part of a charity and ask prospective donors for contributions to the non-existent charity. Charity fraud not only includes fictitious charities but also deceitful business acts. Deceitful business acts include businesses accepting donations and not using the money for its intended purposes.\n\n\nThere are controls and laws governing charities and businesses that accept donations. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with the Better Business Bureau (BBB) has regulations that can be found on their websites.\nThe United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) provides online information about avoiding charity fraud, such as fraudulent schemes that emerge in the wake of natural disasters, claiming to be providing disaster relief. The Internet Crime Complaint Center maintains a list of guidelines to avoid charity fraud when making a donation.\n\nIt is advised that people should follow certain guidelines when they donate and that they should consult a list such as the one on the BBB’s website. This list includes the participants in the BBB Wise Giving Alliance's National Charity Seal Program. Participants have met standards for charity accountability and may, for a fee, display the seal logo on their websites as well as any other printed documents.\n\nCharity fraud is distinguished from badge charity in which the charity does exist, but an inordinate percentage the funds donated are absorbed by professional fundraisers and operating expenses of the charity rather than the causes described in solicitations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26319256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26319256", "title": "Charles-Léonce Brossé", "text": "Charles-Léonce Brossé\n\nCharles-Léonce Brossé (born 1871), also known as Bsor or Bzor, was a French painter; engraver and lithographer. He is most well known for his poster \"Meeting d'Aviation Nice,\" promoting an early \"aviation meet\" or air show held in Nice, France, April 10–25, 1910. The poster depicts a pilot scattering roses from his airplane flying high over the Nice coast. Notice the shape of the left wing is mirrored in the shape of the water above and below the right wing. The lettering at the top is in a distinct Art Nouveau style and surrounds a crowned red eagle, representing the arms of Nice, with exaggerated wings extending far beyond the shield and resembling the wings of an airplane. The poster has been credited with contributing to \"Nice’s glamorous image.\" It has been reprinted numerous times and also has been reproduced on coffee mugs and other objects. Brossé also designed bookplates, including one in 1912 for the alpinist Spitalieri.\n"}
{"id": "21075880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21075880", "title": "Christmas in the post-war United States", "text": "Christmas in the post-war United States\n\nChristmas in the United States during the post-war years (1946–1964) reflected a period of peace, productivity, and prosperity. Americans staged sumptuous Christmases and enjoyed a variety of holiday foods unknown to previous generations. Several films, foods, toys, and television programs of the era have become American Christmas traditions.\n\nOnce reliant upon Germany for its ornaments, toys, and even its Christmas customs, America became self-sufficient in the post-War years with Christmas ornaments and toys being manufactured in the United States that were considerably less expensive than their German counterparts. American Christmas customs and traditions such as visits to department store Santas and letter writing to Santa at the North Pole remained intact during America's post-War years, but the era generated contributions that have endured to become traditions.\n\nNORAD's tracking of Santa's sleigh on Christmas Eve, for example, was initiated in 1955 and has become an annual tradition. The stop motion animated film, \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\" remains an annual telecast on American television—more than fifty years after its debut, and Dr. Seuss's \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas!\" of 1957 has become a literary Christmas classic.\n\nSeveral Christmas firsts mark the post-War era that include the first White House Christmas card, the first Christmas postage stamp, the first opera composed for television (\"Amahl and the Night Visitors\"), the first Christmas Day basketball game, and the first Elvis Presley Christmas album. The era saw the production and manufacture of toys that have become classics such as \"Candy Land\", Mr. Potato Head, and Barbie.\n\nDuring the post-War years, Americans could select their Christmas trees from a variety of offerings. Natural trees had become the preferred choice in America when Christmas tree farms began supplying them to large metropolitan areas in the 1920s. Artificial trees of bristles, aluminum trees, and flocked trees became alternatives to real trees during the post-War period.\n\nIn 1900, only one in five American families had a Christmas tree. While America never lacked for real trees, the time and expense of retrieving them from the wild was significant. Early in the twentieth century, however, Christmas tree farms began supplying large metropolitan areas with real trees. In the 1920s, real trees became commonplace, supplanting artificial trees in American homes.\n\nArtificial trees made of goose feathers were in use in American homes since the 1880s. In the 1930s, however, The Addis Brush Company, an American toilet bowl brush manufacturer, began making artificial trees of green-dyed bristles and then supplied the British (who suffered a dearth of wild trees) with thousands of artificial trees in the post-War years. Americans took little interest in the Addis artificial trees and remained loyal to real trees.\n\nIn 1950, the Addis Brush Company patented an aluminum Christmas tree, the Silver Pine, that came with a floodlight and a rotating color wheel. Modern Coatings, Inc. of Chicago manufactured aluminum trees in 1958, and The Aluminum Specialty Company of Manitowoc, Wisconsin manufactured more than a million aluminum trees between 1959 and 1969. The trees, including the company's flagship product the \"Evergleam\", retailed for $25.\n\nThe aluminum tree spectacle could be enhanced with a rotating Christmas tree stand. The futuristic, Space Age look of the trees made them especially suited to the streamlined home decor of the period. Sales of aluminum trees declined after being treated satirically in the 1965 animated Christmas television special, \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\".\n\nIn the 1960s, flocked Christmas trees in purple, gold, pink, and even black became popular. The trees' branches were coated in a chemically-created, flame retardant substance resembling snow. Sophisticated style mavens suggested developing a new Christmas tree theme every year and buying color coordinated ornaments. Natural trees would return to favor in the 1970s when country arts and crafts became popular.\n\nThe post-War period saw changes in the production of Christmas tree ornaments. Shiny Brite and other ornament companies began mass-producing inexpensive glass ornaments. Bubble lights were introduced during the period, and inexpensive, lit-from-within tree toppers were another option for the tree.\n\nIn the post-War years, translucent, molded plastic, electrified, lit-from-within tree toppers in the shape of angels and stars became popular. Although Santa Claus and other Christmas icons were introduced as electrified toppers, the star and the angel of the Victorian era remained the preferred motif. Glass spire ornaments were also popular as toppers.\n\nThe first decorated water reservoir tree stands appeared on the American market in the 1940s. Tin Christmas tree stands decorated with lithographed holiday icons manufactured by National Outfit Manufacturers Association were produced in the 1950s and have become collectibles of the era.\n\nBubble lights, a type of incandescent novelty light, were invented by Carl Otis in 1935, who then sold the patents to the NOMA (National Outfit Manufacturer's Association) Electric Corporation. NOMA launched the novelty lights on the Christmas market in 1946 when war shortages ended. Bubble lights became hugely popular. Their main feature was a sealed glass tube with a colored bubbling liquid inside.\n\nOther companies followed with their own bubble light versions and other lighting novelties. In 1946, Sylvania introduced fluorescent pastel lights. In 1955, NOMA manufactured flashing lights. In 1958, GE launched Lighted Ice Bulbs, blue bulbs covered with 'ice' crystals. Fairy Lights were imported from Europe in 1950 and eventually morphed into the inexpensive mini-lights popular in the last decades of the 20th century.\n\nGerman glass ornaments were introduced to America by Frank Woolworth in the 1880s but such ornaments were produced under labor-intensive conditions and were expensive, with few Americans being able to afford more than one or two ornaments per year. On the eve of World War II, however, American companies began manufacturing inexpensive, mass-produced ornaments that made it possible for almost any American to have an extensive collection of Christmas ornaments for little cost within moments. With a few modifications, Corning Glass's light bulb machine could spit out 2,000 blank glass ornaments a minute that were then bought by ornament companies to be decorated, packaged and sold by the dozen.\n\nShatter-resistant and shatterproof ornaments are one adaptation, among many others, to make Christmas pet-friendly.\n\nMax Eckhardt's Shiny Brite company manufactured colorful glass ornaments in a variety of sizes and shapes through the era. Packed in boxes by the dozen or half dozen, glimpses of the ornaments could be caught through the cellophane windows of the boxes' covers. The reds and greens of the past were supplemented with turquoise, chartreuse, orange, purple, and other vibrant colors.\n\nGlittery bands of mica decorated some balls while others were silk screened with seasonal motifs such as snowy scenes, sleigh rides, carolers, and poinsettias. Some balls featured silvery indents on their surfaces that reflected the surrounding light. In the early 1950s, clear glass balls appeared decorated with bands of color or glittering sparkles. Molded plastic Santa Clauses, angels, snowmen, and other holiday icons were inexpensive, mass-produced, and readily available.\n\nMcAdenville, North Carolina claims the distinction of being the first community to use outdoor Christmas lights. The Library of Congress notes that \"the tradition of decorating evergreen trees with Christmas lights dates back to 1956 when the McAdenville Men's Club conceived of the idea of decorating a few trees around the McAdenville Community Center.\"\n\nWhile the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree has had \"lights\" since 1931, the Rockefeller Tree did not have real electric lights until 1956. Philadelphia's Christmas Light Show and Disney's Christmas Tree also began in 1956. Though GE sponsored community lighting competitions during the 1920s, it was not until the mid-1950s that outdoor Christmas lighting was adopted by most Americans. Strings of lights gradually began adorning mantles and doorways inside houses, and trimming the rafters, roof lines, and porch railings outside.\n\nThe tradition of having a National Christmas Tree in Washington, D.C. began in 1923 when a 48-foot Balsam Fir from Vermont was placed in the Ellipse outside the White House. On Christmas Eve, President Calvin Coolidge lit the 2,500 red, white and green electric bulbs on the tree.\n\nIn 1941, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt had the tree moved from the Ellipse to the White House grounds, where it remained until 1954 when it was returned to the Ellipse. In 1946, the lighting ceremony became a televised event, though not with widespread telecast. From 1948 to 1951, President Harry S. Truman signalled the lighting of the tree by remote control from his Independence, Missouri home, but in 1952, he stayed at the White House for the lighting ceremony. In 1953, the ceremony was widely telecast and President Dwight David Eisenhower's address was radio broadcast through the Voice of America in thirty-four languages.\n\nIn 1954, businessmen in the Washington, D.C. area became involved and greatly expanded the program with the Christmas Pageant of Peace. The Pageant centered around the lighting of the Christmas tree, and included various elements such as a life-sized reproduction of the nativity scene. Every year from 1954 to 1972, a tree was cut and brought to the White House from a different US state and installed at the Ellipse. The ceremony of the tree lighting was then followed by Christmas presentations through the holiday season.\n\nRituals surrounding Santa Claus such as department store visits to the \"jolly old elf\", and letter writing to his North Pole workshop remained intact during the post-War era. New to the mix was Santa's Workshop (one of the first theme parks in the US), and NORAD's tracking of Santa's sleigh via radar on Christmas Eve. In Cleveland, Ohio, a costumed character called Mr. Jingeling entertained shoppers annually at Halle's Department Store during the season.\n\nIn 1949, one of the first theme parks in the United States, Santa's Workshop, was constructed near Whiteface Mountain in New York State. The park was designed by Arto Monaco, of Upper Jay, New York, and built by the site's owner Harold Fortune, of Lake Placid, New York. The idea for the park originated in a story that Lake Placid businessman Julian Reiss told his daughter about a baby bear who visits Santa Claus's workshop at the North Pole.\n\nThe park features tame deer, storybook characters, and similar attractions. Single day attendance at the park peaked at 14,000 on September 2, 1951. On December 16, 1953, the U.S. Postal Service awarded North Pole, New York status as a \"Rural Postal Station\". In the same year, the park's Santa Claus and his reindeer participated in the Pageant of Peace in Washington, D.C. as well as Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City. The Nativity Pageant was introduced at the park in 1954.\n\nIn 1955, an advertisement encouraging children to call Santa Claus over a special telephone number was printed in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Due to an error, the phone number that was printed was that of the Continental Air Defense (CONAD). Colonel Harry Shoup was on duty on Christmas Eve 1955 and took many calls from children inquiring about Santa. He told his operators to give a current location for Santa Claus to any child who called in. Three years later, the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) was formed and the NORAD Tracks Santa service continued.\n\nMr. Jingeling, the Keeper of the Keys to Santa's Workshop, was created in 1956 as a radio spokesman to promote the toys sold at Halle's Department Store in Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Jingeling was immediately popular and became an annual fixture at Halle's where he prowled the seventh floor toy department entertaining shoppers. The costumed character was first played by Max Ellis, a Cleveland Play House actor, and then by Earl W. Keyes, a television producer and director, who remained with the role for many years. In addition to his department store duties, Mr. Jingeling appeared on a local children's television program telling stories, singing songs, and reminding viewers to visit Halle's.\nThe post-War Christmas toy extravaganza had its seed in Clement Clarke Moore's \"A Visit from St. Nicholas\". There, Saint Nicholas is depicted not as the thin, somewhat forbidding, charity dispensing character of European lore but as a dimpled, \"jolly old elf\" whose stomach shakes like \"a bowlful of jelly\" when he laughs, and who enters a dwelling through the chimney with a pack of toys on his back.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, Germany was the toy making capitol of the world, but high importation costs made German toys relatively expensive in America. Toy costs were lowered when German toymakers began mass-producing toys under the direction of Frank Woolworth and shipping their products to Woolworth's warehouses for packaging and distribution.\n\nWith the loss of German toys on the American market during World War I, toy manufacturing in the United States began in earnest. The Great Depression was a temporary setback but WWII proved a catalyst. In the aftermath of the war, American couples were eager to settle down, have kids, and lavish the sumptuous Christmases they never had on their offspring.\n\nThe post-War years saw the creation of toys that are still in production today and include \"Candy Land\", \"Cootie\", the hula hoop, Barbie, and Etch A Sketch.\n\nTelevision cultivated the American Christmas toy extravaganza. Manufacturers sidestepped the parent in selling a toy and went directly to the child. Mr. Potato Head was the first toy advertised on television and retail sales topped $4 million in the toy's first year. Play-Doh's sales skyrocketed after being advertised on influential children's television programs such as \"Ding Dong School\" and \"Captain Kangaroo\".\nThe first White House Christmas card was sent during the administration of Dwight David Eisenhower in 1953. President Eisenhower was an amateur artist and personally consulted with the head of Hallmark Cards on the project. Over the course of two terms, the Eisenhower White House issued 38 different cards and prints with many of them bearing the President's own artwork. The tradition was continued during the Kennedy years with Jacqueline Kennedy's artwork featured on a 1963 card issued to raise funds for a national performing arts center.\n\nEarly in the post-War years, cards exhibited traditional sentiments and art that reassured war weary Americans. As the 1960s neared, however, sophisticated, adult-oriented cards called \"Slim Jims\" began appearing on the market. The cards displayed Santas driving fin-tailed convertibles and beatniks delivering greetings in hepcat lingo. The highly stylized cards remained popular well into the 1960s, poking fun at fads and world events. Family photo cards and newsletters (meticulously handwritten or typed by busy moms) became commonplace during the 1960s as well.\n\nHallmark brought African American culture to greeting cards in the 1960s as well as contemporary cultural images such as elves sporting Beatle haircuts and psychedelic Christmas trees in Warholesque colors. \"Happy Christmas\" replaced \"Merry Christmas\" here and there after clergymen decided the traditional greeting was associated with inebriation. In 1961, 50 billion Christmas cards were mailed by Americans, and, in 1962, America's first Christmas postage stamp was issued—causing a mild firestorm by those who felt the stamp violated separation of church and state.\n\nMamie Eisenhower's Million-Dollar Fudge Recipe was a favorite holiday treat of the Eisenhower White House years. and first appeared in \"Who Says We Can't Cook?\", a spiral-bound collection of recipes published in 1955 by the Women's National Press Club of Washington, D.C. Mamie's husband Ike named the recipe.\n\n1955 saw the culinary debut of Green Bean Casserole, a dish that remains a holiday favorite in America. Its ingredients include green beans, cream of mushroom soup, and, as a topping, French's Fried Onions. The casserole was created by Campbell Soup Company in order to promote its cream soups. French's reports that 50% of all French's Fried Onions consumption occurs over Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Easter.\n\nCookie cutting and decorating reached its cultural zenith during the boomer years with Christmas cookie cutouts of reindeer, trees, stars, and bells providing sustenance for kids and dads. Moms packed their favorite home baked cookies into Tupperware containers and carried them to cookie swap parties with friends and neighbors. Red plastic cutters replaced tin cutters during the war years when metal was scarce and can be found today at garage sales and flea markets.\n\nA snack hit of the 1955 holiday season was Chex Party Mix, a combination of Wheat Chex, Rice Chex, and Corn Chex, nuts, pretzels and a dressing of melted butter, Worcestershire sauce, and onion and garlic powders. The treat remains a popular holiday snack.\n\nGifts for teens in the post-War years included face powder, radios, telephones, and cars. In the early 1950s, Angel Face powder was advertised as \"the perfect girl-to-girl\" Christmas gift. The first transistor radios hit the market just before Christmas 1954 and were a luxury item at US$49.95 ($322 in 2000 values). A leather case and earphone cost an additional $11.45 ($73). By the end of the decade however, prices dropped so quickly that an 8-transistor radio could be had for less than $10.\n\nAnother gift in demand was the streamlined, oval-shaped Princess telephone introduced in the early 1960s. The phone came in a variety of colors, including pink, turquoise, and cream. When one of Mattel's Barbie doll outfits included a Princess phone as an accessory, a fashion trend was born. By 1963, many Baby Boomers had reached driver's license age and, for the first time, middle-class families splurged on cars for their offspring.\n\nTwentieth Century Fox's 1956 Christmas offering was \"The Girl Can't Help It\", a musical film originally intended as a vehicle for sex symbol Jayne Mansfield, with the subplot being a satire of teenagers and rock ‘n’ roll music. The unintended result was the \"most potent\" celebration of rock music ever captured on film.\nIn December 1961, Disney Studios released \"Babes in Toyland\", a film version of Victor Herbert's 1903 operetta starring teen heartthrobs Annette Funicello and Tommy Sands. Though new songs with jazzy tempi were incorporated into the film and one critic was delighted with the film's colorful numbers, \"Babes in Toyland\" was neither a success nor a complete box office flop. Its gigantic toy soldiers became members of the Disneyland and Walt Disney World Christmas Parades.\n\nTwo rockabilly/rock and roll style songs of the late 1950s became hugely popular. \"Jingle Bell Rock\", written by Joe Beal and Jim Boothe, was recorded by Bobby Helms in 1957. The song is regarded as the first rock and roll Christmas song, and has hit the \"Billboard\" charts a record six times since its original release. It is second in popularity only to \"White Christmas,\" with 120 million copies sold. \"Jingle Bell Rock\" hit #6 in its first year, despite having been released only two days before Christmas.\n\n\"Rockin' Around the Christmas Tree\", written by Johnny Marks and recorded by Brenda Lee in 1958 for Decca Records, was another rockabilly/rock and roll flavored Christmas tune. While it was neglected in its first two seasons, the song hit #16 on the Billboard pop chart during the Christmas season of 1960. Eight million copies were sold over thirty years.\n\n\"Elvis' Christmas Album\" was released in October 1957, the first of only two Christmas albums Elvis recorded. The album featured eight Christmas songs, and four gospel songs. \"Santa Claus Is Back In Town\" and \"Santa Bring My Baby Back (to Me)\" were both commissioned expressly for the album. Elvis' reading of Ernest Tubb's 1949 hit, \"Blue Christmas\" made the tune a holiday staple.\n\nHis version of \"White Christmas\" brought calls from the song's composer Irving Berlin to have the song, and the entire album, banned from radio airplay. Berlin thought Elvis's rendition a \"profane parody of his cherished yuletide standard\". Most US radio stations ignored Berlin's request, though at least one DJ was fired for playing a tune from the album. As of 2007, \"Elvis' Christmas Album\" is the top-selling holiday release of all time with 9 million in sales, according to the RIAA.\n\n\"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\" was composed in 1948 by Johnny Marks after a 1939 poem by Robert L. May who created Rudolph as part of his employment with Montgomery Ward. The song tells the story of a reindeer whose shiny red nose guides Santa's sleigh through the fog on Christmas Eve. Gene Autry's 1949 recording remained at #1 for a week and brought the song widespread fame. Only \"White Christmas\" has sold more copies.\n\nAutry had another hit in 1950 with \"Frosty the Snowman\", written by Jack Rollins and Steve Nelson as a direct attempt to create a success in the vein of \"Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer\". The song tells the story of a magical snowman who has playful adventures with children. In 1963, \"Frosty\" hit its highest position ever at #13 in a version by The Ronettes.\n\nSpike Jones's rendition of \"All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth\" hit #1 on the pop charts in 1951. The tune was composed in December 1944 by elementary school music teacher Don Gardner when he noticed most of his students were missing their front \"baby\" teeth. Inspired, he dashed off the song in thirty minutes. In Spike Jones' original hit recording, a grownup pretends to be a lisping kid who cannot whistle. Nat King Cole also covered the tune.\n\n\"The Little Drummer Boy\", based on an ancient Czech folksong, was written by Katherine K. Davis in 1957. The song tells the apocryphal story of a poor young boy who, unable to afford a gift for the infant Jesus, plays his drum with Mary's approval. The baby smiles at the boy in gratitude. The 1958 version by the Harry Simeone Chorale is the standard, and hit the unparalleled record of placing in the Top 40 for five straight Christmases in a row. Simeone recorded the song in a Greenwich Village cathedral to give it a hushed respect. Its highest position on both the US and UK charts was #13.\n\n\"Silver Bells\" was composed by Jay Livingston and Ray Evans, introduced by Bob Hope and Marilyn Maxwell in the film, \"The Lemon Drop Kid\" and recorded by Bing Crosby and Carol Richards in 1952. The song was inspired by Salvation Army bellringers and is one of the very few songs about Christmas in the city. The song was originally called \"Tinkle Bell\", but Livingston's wife reminded him that \"tinkle\" had another association. \"It was something you did in the bathroom,\" Evans recalled years after the song's composition, \"but that's a woman's word and I'd never thought of it.\" \"Silver Bells\" ranks #13 on ASCAP's list of most-played holiday songs.\n\n\"I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus\" was written and composed by Tommie Connor in 1952 and originally recorded by thirteen-year-old Jimmy Boyd. The song reached #1 on the Billboard charts in 1952, and on the \"Cash Box Magazine\" chart at the beginning of the following year. Boyd's record was condemned by the Roman Catholic Church in Boston on the grounds it mixed sex with Christmas. Boyd was widely photographed meeting with the Archdiocese to explain the song.\n\n\"Santa Baby\" was written by Joan Javits and Philip Springer in 1953. The song is a tongue-in-cheek look at a Christmas list of a woman who wants the most extravagant gifts for the holiday. \"Santa Baby\" was originally sung and recorded by Eartha Kitt and became a huge hit at #4 in 1953.\n\nJackson 5 Christmas Album was the only holiday album released by Motown family quintet The Jackson 5. Released in October 1970, the album showcased the brothers' harmonies and vocals. Lead singer Michael Jackson is prominently featured on the album tracks. Included on the Christmas Album is the Jackson 5's hit single version of \"Santa Claus Is Coming to Town\". Rendered with a pop-soul feel, the Jackson 5's versions of \"I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus\" and \"Santa Claus Is Coming to Town\" remain frequent radio requests during the holiday season.\n\nThe album spent all four weeks at the number one position on Billboard magazine's special Christmas Albums chart that the magazine published in December 1970, making it the best-selling holiday album of that year. It has sold over 3.5 million copies worldwide.[2]\nIn 2003, Universal Motown re-released the album with \"Little Christmas Tree\" (from A Motown Christmas).\nIn 2009, this configuration was released as Ultimate Christmas Collection with Christmas messages, remixes, and a Christmas medley, and again as Merry Christmas Jackson's. http://www.allmusic.com/album/r9998 \n[edit]\n\nIn 1957, Dr. Seuss's \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas!\" was published by Random House. The tale's rhyming verse accompanies illustrations by the author, and follows a disagreeable character called the Grinch and his attempts to thwart the arrival of Christmas by stealing the gifts, trims, and other trappings of the holiday from the happy Whos of Whoville. In spite of his attempts, Christmas arrives all the same.\n\nThe Grinch realizes then that Christmas is something more than its trappings. The book criticizes the commercialization of Christmas and satirizes those who exploit the holiday. The tale was adapted into a 1966 short animated film for television with a screenplay by Seuss and narration by Boris Karloff. Later adaptations include a Broadway musical and a feature film in 2000 starring Jim Carrey.\n\nAt 100 years of age in 1960, Grandma Moses illustrated Clement Clark Moore's Christmas poem, \"A Visit from Saint Nicholas\" as \"The Night Before Christmas\" for Random House. The book was published after her death in 1961.\n\nThe years immediately following WWII saw the release of two of the most popular Christmas films in US history: \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (1946) and \"Miracle on 34th Street\" (1947). Moviefone listed the two movies as number two and three respectively in their \"25 Best Christmas Movies of All Time\". \"The Times\" of London, in a similar ranking, had the two in tenth and eight respectively, while placing fourth 1942's \"Holiday Inn\", the movie that launched Bing Crosby's \"White Christmas\". Particularly Frank Capra's \"It's a Wonderful Life\", starring James Stewart has been called \"a testament to the family values of small-town America just after WWII.\"\n\n\"Santa Claus Conquers the Martians\" (1964) regularly appears on lists of the worst films ever made. Paul Jacobson, the film's producer and a former unit manager for the television program, \"Howdy Doody\", described his film as a \"Yuletide science fiction fantasy\", and with the best of intentions, hoped to bring something to movie theaters at a time of the year when there was a paucity of children's entertainment other than the annual Disney feature.\n\nIn Jacobson's film, Martians kidnap Santa Claus in a plan to bring fun to their listless, TV-obsessed children. Once on Mars, Santa mass-produces toys using a computerized machine, foils a sourpuss saboteur, and generates fun for all. \"Santa Claus Conquers the Martians\" has been novelized, adapted to musical stagings, and has taken its place as a holiday cult classic. Child actress Pia Zadora played one of the Martian children and years later commented, \"It was very well done, considering it was shot twenty years ago - gimme a break - and really is very entertaining. It's become a Christmas classic, really.\"\n\nChristmas television is predominantly secular and focuses on the ethical message of generosity through gift giving and Santa Claus, or the psychological message of home, nostalgia and childhood, or both. The theological message of the holiday—the Incarnation—is rarely encountered in Christmas television. Such a message would be inaccessible to many Americans.\n\nIn 1949, Gian Carlo Menotti was commissioned by NBC's \"Opera Theatre\" to write an opera for television. After a year and a half of delay, he set to work, completing \"Amahl and the Night Visitors\" five days before its scheduled airing on Christmas Eve 1951 at 9:30 to 10:30 p.m.. Menotti's work was inspired by Hieronymous Bosch's painting, \"The Adoration of the Magi\". The composer himself appeared on-screen to introduce the opera and give the background of the events leading up to its composition. He also brought director Kirk Browning and conductor Thomas Schippers on-camera to thank them.\n\nAn estimated five million viewers tuned in—to this day, the largest audience for a televised opera in America. Skeptic Olin Downes declared in a \"New York Times\" front page review that \"television, operatically speaking, has come of age\" and \"Newsweek\" called the telecast, \"the best production of opera yet seen on TV.\"\n\nThe opera's appeal lay not only in its story about a crippled shepherd boy healed on the first Christmas Eve but in its wedding of opera and the limitations of television. The broad effects of theater were eschewed and instead an intimacy appropriate to the television studio and home viewing was cultivated. The production starred Chet Allen as Amahl and Rosemary Kuhlmann as his mother. Kuhlmann reprised her role annually for many years.\n\nIn 1953, \"Amahl\" was colorcast. The opera claims the distinctions of being the first opera written for television, the first presentation of the teleseries \"Hallmark Hall of Fame\", and the first Christmas television special to become an annual tradition. The opera was telecast on NBC from 1951 to 1966 with many of the original cast and crew participating.\n\nOn December 18, 1962, NBC aired the first animated Christmas special created specifically for television, \"Mister Magoo's Christmas Carol\". Based on Dickens' novelette, \"A Christmas Carol\", the animated special featured a score by Broadway duo Jule Styne and Bob Merrill.\n\nOn December 6, 1964, NBC aired \"Rudolph the Red–Nosed Reindeer\", a stop motion animated special produced by Rankin/Bass. The special was based on a 1949 song by Johnny Marks, which was based in turn on a 1939 poem by Robert L. May. The program has aired every year since 1964, making it the longest-running Christmas television special.\n\nOn December 9 1965, CBS aired \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\" then in 2001 ABC first aired.\n\nOn December 8 2002, ABC aired \"Charlie Brown's Christmas Tales\"\n\nOn December 9 2003, ABC aired \"I Want a Dog for Christmas, Charlie Brown\"\n\nChristmas clubs were savings programs first offered by banks in 1909. The concept was simple: bank customers deposited a set amount of money each week into a special savings account, and received the money at a later date for Christmas shopping.\n\nOne radio program episode used Christmas clubs as a background. The December 23, 1949 episode of \"Life of Riley\" saw the show's protagonist Chester Riley attempting to withdraw his US$2 Christmas club money but discovering his account has accumulated a variety of fees including one for the passbook, another for early withdrawal, and yet another for the bank's mailed reminders. The luckless Riley owes the bank 25 cents.\n"}
{"id": "51893424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51893424", "title": "Chung Yoo-ra", "text": "Chung Yoo-ra\n\nChung Yoo-ra (born Chung Yoo-yeon, 30 October 1996) is a South Korean equestrian. She competed in the 2014 Asian Games, where her team won a gold medal.\n\nShe is a daughter of Chung Yoon-hoi and his ex-wife Choi Soon-sil, who has been arrested amid the 2016 South Korean political scandal for using her friendship with the president Park Geun-hye to illegally interfere in the state affairs, and solicit business donations from top South Korean firms, including Samsung, for a non-profit fund she controlled.\n\nDuring the investigations of the 2016 South Korean political scandal, Chung Yoo-ra's admission to Ewha Womans University was cancelled due to \"preferential treatment in admissions and grading\". Her high school diploma has been cancelled as well due to falsified high school records.\n\nIn December 2016, South Korea put out an arrest warrant for Chung Yoo-ra for charges including obstruction of justice, after she refused to return from Germany to attend a parliamentary inquiry into her role in the scandal. The South Korean government announced that it would invalidate her passport and seek her arrest and extradition from Germany. The South Korean government also sought the help of Interpol to track her down. On January 1, 2017, she was arrested in Aalborg, Denmark after a tip from South Korean journalists who had tracked her.\n\nThe German Federal Police are investigating Chung Yoo-ra and her mother for money laundering involving assets estimated at more than 1 billion US dollars.\n"}
{"id": "48297750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48297750", "title": "Committee to Boycott Nixon's Memoirs", "text": "Committee to Boycott Nixon's Memoirs\n\nThe Committee to Boycott Nixon's Memoirs was an organization founded to protest the release of \"RN\", the memoirs of former United States president Richard Nixon. A group of 19 people led by carpet cleaner Tom Flanigan and restaurateur Bill Boleyn gathered money and produced T-shirts, bumper stickers, and buttons with the slogan \"Don't Buy Books By Crooks\". The campaign's newspaper ads were turned down by the \"New York Times\" and the \"Washington Post\", but they did get media attention, including their shirt being seen on \"Saturday Night Live\".\n"}
{"id": "36306767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36306767", "title": "Concussions in sport", "text": "Concussions in sport\n\nConcussions, a type of traumatic brain injury, are a frequent concern for those playing sports, from children and teenagers to professional athletes. Repeated concussions are a known cause of various neurological disorders, most notably chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), which in professional athletes has led to premature retirement, erratic behavior and even suicide. Because concussions cannot be seen on X-rays or CT scans, attempts to prevent concussions have been difficult.\n\nThe dangers of repeated concussions have long been known for boxers and wrestlers; a form of CTE common in these two sports, dementia pugilistica (DP), was first described in 1928. An awareness of the risks of concussions in other sports began to grow in the 1990s, and especially in the mid-2000s, in both the medical and the professional sports communities, as a result of studies of the brains of prematurely deceased American football players, who showed extremely high incidences of CTE (see concussions in American football).\n\nAs of 2012, the four major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada have concussion policies. Sports-related concussions are generally analyzed by athletic training or medical staff on the sidelines using an evaluation tool for cognitive function known as the Sport Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT), a symptom severity checklist, and a balance test.\n\nConcussion symptoms can last for an undetermined amount of time depending on the player and the severity of the concussion. A concussion will affect the way a person's brain works. \n\nThere is the potential of post-concussion syndrome, defined as a set of symptoms that may continue after a concussion is sustained. Post-concussion symptoms can be classified into physical, cognitive, emotional, and sleep symptoms. Physical symptoms include a headache, nausea, and vomiting. Athletes may experience cognitive symptoms that include speaking slowly, difficulty remembering and concentrating. Emotional and sleep symptoms include irritability, sadness, drowsiness, and trouble falling asleep.\n\nAlong with the classification of post-concussion symptoms, the symptoms can also be described as immediate and delayed. The immediate symptoms are experienced immediately after a concussion such as: memory loss, disorientation, and poor balance. Delayed symptoms are experienced in the later stages and include sleeping disorders and behavioral changes. Both immediate and delayed symptoms can continue for long periods of time and have a negative impact on recovery. According to research, 20-25% of individuals who have sustained a concussion experienced chronic, delayed symptoms.\n\nPlaying through concussion makes people more vulnerable to getting hit again, and that is why most sports have test that trainers will perform to prevent getting hit a second time. A second blow can cause a rare condition known as second-impact syndrome, which can result in severe injury or death. Second-impact syndrome is when an athlete suffers a second head injury before the brain has adequate time to heal in between concussions.\n\nRepeated concussions have been linked to a variety of neurological disorders among athletes, including CTE, Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinsonism and Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) often produces dementia like symptoms found commonly in athletes, years later after the repeated blows to the brain. The structures that are commonly affected include your memory as well as behavioral control. Symptoms of CTE include aggression, dementia, confusion, and depression. According to research, those who take part in football, ice hockey, wrestlers and boxers are the ones most at risk for this. CTE shows a common relationship with Alzheimer's Disease and many blows to the brain will eventually lead into this. A study has been done on players who are deceased in the NFL and 99% of the of the scans done on the brains show that they had CTE. Depression is often a common cause from a traumatic brain injury.\n\nIt is estimated that as many as 1.6-3.8 million concussions occur in the US per year in competitive sports and recreational activities; this is a rough estimate, since as many as 50% of concussions go unreported. Concussions occur in all sports with the highest incidence in American football, hockey, rugby, soccer, and basketball. In addition to concussions caused by a single severe impact, multiple minor impacts may also cause brain injury.\n\nMajor League Baseball's policy was first started in 2007, and injured players are examined by a team athletic trainer on the field. On March 29, 2011, MLB and the Major League Baseball Players Association announced that they have created various protocols for the league's concussion policy. The new policy includes four primary components:\n\nThe National Basketball Association does not have a policy, and team procedures after concussions vary by team. The NBA has a meeting to educate the players each year about concussions. Players also go through a neurological and cognitive assessment after each season.\n\nDuring Game 2 of the 2016 NBA Finals on June 5, 2016, Kevin Love was placed in the NBA Concussion Protocol.\n\nThe National Football League's policy was first started in 2007, and injured players are examined on field by the medical team. The league's policy included the \"NFL Sidelines Concussion Exam\", which requires players who have taken hits to the head to perform tests concerning concentration, thinking and balance. In 2011, the league introduced an assessment test, which combines a symptoms checklist, a limited neurological examination, a cognitive evaluation, and a balance assessment. For a player to be allowed to return, he must be asymptomatic.\n\nIf a player is cleared by the Unaffiliated Neurotrauma Consultant (UNC), then they will be allowed to play but will be monitored closely throughout the game. If a player is diagnosed with a concussion, then that player is not allowed back in the game. A return to play process is issued, which includes five steps, “1. Rest and recovery 2. Light aerobic exercise 3. Continued aerobic exercise/strength training 4. Football specific activities 5. Full football activity/clearance” \n\nAlmost every team has experienced a player who will “keep playing, then manage to stumble off the field, unnoticed by the coaches, cameras or press. He might take a breather for a series or two. But he can walk, so he wants to play. He gets back in the game and back to his teammates.” \n\nAccording to Johns Hopkins University, a study took place which “researchers recruited nine former NFL players who retired decades ago and who ranged in age from 57 to 74. The men had played a variety of positions and self-reported a wide range of concussions, varying from none for a running back to 40 for a defensive tackle.\" \n\nThe National Hockey League's concussion policy began in 1997, and players who sustain concussions are evaluated by a team doctor in a quiet room. In March 2011, the NHL adopted guidelines for the league's concussion policy. Before the adoptions, examinations on the bench for concussions was the minimum requirement, but the new guidelines make it mandatory for players showing concussion-like symptoms to be examined by a doctor in the locker room.\n\nDr. Paul Echlin and Dr. Martha Shenton of Brigham and Women’s Hospital and other researchers, conducted a study where “Forty-five male and female Canadian university hockey players were observed by independent physicians during the 2011-12 season. All 45 players were given M.R.I. scans before and after the season. The 11 who received a concussion diagnosis during the season were given additional scans within 72 hours, two weeks and two months of the incident. The scans found microscopic white matter and inflammatory changes in the brains of individuals who had sustained a clinically diagnosed concussion during the period of the study.” \n\nMany children and teenagers participate in sports and extracurricular activities that create a risk of a head injury or concussion, including basketball, cheerleading, soccer, and football. As a consequence, schools and youth sports groups should implement programs to reduce the risk of concussion, ensure prompt diagnosis and provision of medical care, and that young participants are not endangered by a premature return to sports.\n\nIn 2010, more high school soccer players suffered concussions than basketball, baseball, wrestling, and softball players combined, according to the Center for Injury Research and Policy. According to a study in the \"JAMA Pediatrics\" medical journal, many girls do not get necessary care and prevention regarding concussions, and 56 percent of players (or their families) reporting concussion symptoms never sought treatment.\n\nA growing topic is concussions in girls' soccer, predominantly among high-school girls. Studies show that girls are reporting nearly twice as many concussions as boys in the sports that they both play. The number of girls suffering concussions in soccer accounts for the second largest amount of all concussions reported by young athletes.\n\nAccording to a 2012 study published by ScienceDirect, soccer has the highest injury rate per athlete-exposure among 7- to 13-year-old children.\n\nThis study was performed to compare the clinical recovery patterns after sport-related concussions for high school and collegiate athletes. It was important for them that these findings help us get a better understanding of how developmental factors influence the response to and recovery after different levels of play. Determining if college or professional athletes are more resilient to concussive injury on average than more heterogeneous high school samples.\n\nThe study was performed with Division 1, 2, and 3 football players at 15 universities across the United States. Then there was project sideline that followed football, hockey, and soccer players in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. They also looked at male and female high school and collegiate athletes mostly in southeaster United States. For every athlete they did a preseason baseline testing to see if anyone had a concussion already. They conducted these tests in the athletes’ schools in classrooms or other quiet indoor settings. All the athletes were individually proctored by the trained research assistants.\n\nFrom this study they concluded that the collegiate athletes were older, taller, and heavier and have played their sport for more years then the high school athletes have. The high school group had more concussions and a higher proportion of females then the collegiate or control samples did. They had a total of 621 concussed athletes and 150 non-injured controls. They found little evidence that there were different rates of clinical recovery from the concussions between the high school students and the collegiate athletes. They saw that for the collegiate players that the elevated symptoms through day 5 of post-injury resolved by day 7. The high school athletes took 1–2 days longer to recover, but they both showed rapid recovery within the few days of the injury. The high school athletes did have more severe concussions though.\n\nThe information that the authors give us are relevant to only people who play sports at the high school or college level. This information would not benefit someone who does not play sports or does not get concussions often. They were testing to see what the effect of the concussions had on these athletes and how they recovered from them. This information could also be good for coaches and parents to know as well.\n\nLimitations they could have had for this experiment would be if the majority of the team’s players were injured or if none of them have ever had concussions or no one got concussions from their sports. I don’t think there was any data missing that they didn’t tell us about in their report. Other limitations that may have existed in this study was if a player already had a concussion and continued to play contact sports and did not let it heal that would be disrupting their data that they are looking for.\n\nAmerican football causes 250,000 concussions annually, and 20% of high-school football players experience a concussion every year. In 2000, researchers from the Sports Medicine Research Laboratory at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill analyzed 17,549 players from 242 different schools. 888 (5.1%) of the players analyzed have at least one concussion a season, and 131 (14.7%) of them have had another concussion the year later. Division III and high-school players have a higher tendency to sustain a concussion than Division II and Division I players. In , the National Football League Players Association partnered with the UNC to determine whether professional football players suffer any health effects after any injuries, although the findings were criticized by the NFL for being unreliable due to being based on self-reporting by the players.\n\nAssociation football— also known as soccer— is a major source of sports-related concussions around the world. Even though 50-80% of injuries in football are directed to the legs, head injuries have been shown to account for between 4 and 22% of football injuries. There is the possibility that heading the ball could damage the head, as the ball can travel at 100 km/hour; although most professional footballers have reported that they experienced head injuries from colliding with other players and the ground. \nA multi-year study by the University of Colorado published in \"JAMA Pediatrics\" confirmed that athlete-to-athlete collisions that occur during heading, not impact with the ball itself, is generally the cause for concussion.\n\nA Norwegian study consisting of current and former players of the Norway national football team found out that 3% of the active and 30% of the former players had persistent symptoms of concussions, and that 35% of the active and 32% of that former players had abnormal electroencephalogram (EEG) readings.\n\nDuring the 2006-07 English Premier League season, Czech goalkeeper Petr Čech suffered from a severe concussion in a match between his club Chelsea and Reading. During the match, Reading midfielder Stephen Hunt hit Čech's head with his right knee, knocking the keeper out. Čech underwent surgery for a depressed skull fracture and was told that he would miss a year of playing football. Čech resumed his goalkeeper duties on January 20, 2007 in a match against Liverpool, now wearing a rugby helmet to protect his weakened skull.\n\nAccording to Downs DS and D Abwender in their article Neuropsychological Impairment in Soccer Athletes, “participation in soccer may be associated with poorer neuropsychological performance, although the observed pattern of findings does not specifically implicate heading as the cause”.\n\nOn November 2, 2013 in a match between Tottenham and Everton, Tottenham goal keeper Hugo Lloris sustained a blow to the head by on -coming player Romelu Lukaku's knee. The blow left Lloris knocked out on the ground. Reluctantly manager Andre Villas Boas decided to leave the player on after regaining consciousness and having passed a medical assessment. This broke the rules of the PFA, which state that any player who has lost consciousness must be substituted.\n\nThere has been a widespread debate on protective head gear in soccer. Known as a sport associated with intricate footwork, speed, and well-timed passes, soccer also is classified as a high- to moderate-intensity contact/collision sport, with rates of head injury and concussion similar to those seen in football, ice hockey, lacrosse, and rugby. While the benefits of helmets and other head protection are more obvious in the latter sports, the role of headgear in soccer is still unclear.\n\nThere are clear rules from FIFA regarding what to do when a player gets a concussion. FIFA's guidelines say that a player who has been knocked unconscious should not play again that day. The rules do however allow for \"a transient alteration of conscious level\" following a head injury, which says that a player can return to play following assessment by medical staff. The rules also state that a player who is injured with head damage is not to be played for five days.\n\nThe death of Dale Earnhardt at the 2001 Daytona 500, along with those of Kenny Irwin, Adam Petty and Tony Roper in 2000, and serious injuries sustained by Steve Park in a wreck in September 2001 at Darlington, led to NASCAR establishing numerous policies to assist in driver safety, such as the introduction of the Car of Tomorrow. Drivers were eventually instructed to wear both head and neck restraints, and SAFER barriers have been installed on racetrack walls, with foam-padded supports on each side of the helmet that would allow a driver's head to move in the event of a crash. Despite this, 29 identified concussions occurred between 2004 and 2012.\n\nIn 2012, when Dale Earnhardt, Jr. suffered a concussion after being involved in a crash at the end of the Good Sam Roadside Assistance 500 at Talladega, NASCAR expressed consideration in adding baseline testing to its concussion policies. NASCAR was one of few motorsport organizations that do not have baseline testing, though that ended in 2014, as baseline testing started being performed at the start of the seasons.\n\nIn the 2005 high school basketball year, 3.6% of reported injuries were concussions, with 30.5% of concussions occurring during rebounds. Incidence rates for concussions in NCAA men's basketball is lower than NCAA women's basketball, at 0.16 concussion per 1,000 athletes compared to 0.22 per 1,000 athletes respectively. The difference is found mainly in competition activity compared to practice.\n\nDespite boxing's violent nature, a National Safety Council report in 1996 ranked amateur boxing as the safest contact sport in America. However, concussions are one of the most serious injuries that can occur from boxing, and in an 80-year span from 1918 to 1998, there were 659 boxers who died from brain injury. Incidence rates for concussion in boxing may frequently be miscalculated due to the fact that concussions do not always result from a knockout blow.\nOlympic boxers deliver punches with high impact velocity but lower HIC and translational acceleration than in football impacts because of a lower effective punch mass. They cause proportionately more rotational acceleration than in football. Modeling shows that the greatest strain is in the midbrain late in the exposure, after the primary impact acceleration in boxing and football.\n\nWorldwide, boxing is talked about and watched in many countries and one of the most televised sports and one of the most famous boxer of all time is Muhammad Ali. He was one of the most influential boxers and known as the best of all time. Ali unfortunately was “diagnosed with “a cluster of symptoms that resemble Parkinson’s Disease,” known as Parkinson’s Syndrome, which his doctor believed were caused by numerous blows to the head,” which led to his death in 2016.\n\nAs many skills as gymnastics involve flipping or a blind landing, incidence of head injury increases. A 15-year study found an incidence of 1.7% for concussion and closed head injury for high school gymnasts.\n\nIce hockey has also been known to have concussions inflict numerous players. Because of this, the NHL made hockey helmets mandatory in the 1979–80 NHL season. According to a data release by the National Academy of Neuropsychology's Sports Concussion Symposium, from 2006 to 2011, 765 NHL players were diagnosed with a concussion. At the Mayo Clinic Sports Medicine Center Ice Hockey Summit: Action on Concussion conference in 2010, a panel made a recommendation that blows to the head are to be prohibited, and to outlaw body checking by 11- and 12-year-olds. For the 2010–11 NHL season, the NHL prohibited blindside hits to the head, but did not ban hits to the face. The conference also urged the NHL and its minor entities to join the International Ice Hockey Federation, the NCAA and the Ontario Hockey League in banning any contact to the head.\n\nThe NHL has been criticized for allowing team doctors to determine whether an injured player can return to the ice, instead of independent doctors.\n\nConcussions are also a significant factor in rugby union, another full-contact sport. In 2011, the sport's world governing body, World Rugby (then known as the International Rugby Board, or IRB), issued a highly detailed policy for dealing with injured players with suspected concussions. Under the policy, a player suffering from a suspected concussion is not allowed to return to play in that game. Players are not cleared to play after the injury for a minimum of 21 days, unless they are being supervised in their recovery by a medical practitioner. Even when medical advice is present, players must complete a multi-step monitoring process before being cleared to play again; this process requires a minimum of six days. In 2012, the IRB modified the policy, instituting a Pitchside Suspected Concussion Assessment (PSCA), under which players suspected of having suffered concussions are to leave the field for 5 minutes while doctors assess their condition via a series of questions. Players who pass the PSCA are allowed to return to play.\n\nHowever, an incident during the third Test of the 2013 Lions tour of Australia led to criticism of the current protocols. During that match, Australian George Smith clashed heads with the Lions' Richard Hibbard and was sent to pitchside. According to ESPN's UK channel, \"despite looking dazed and confused, Smith passed the PSCA and was back on the field minutes later.\"\n\nIn 2013, former Scotland international Rory Lamont charged that the current concussion protocols can easily be manipulated. A key part of the current protocols is the \"Cogsport\" test (also known as COG), a computer-based test of cognitive function. Each player undergoes the test before the start of a new season, and is then tested again on it after a head injury, and the results compared, to determine possible impairment. According to Lamont, some players deliberately do poorly on the pre-season test, so that they will be more likely to match or beat their previous results during play.\n\nLamont was also critical of the PSCA, noting:\n\nThe Concussion bin was replaced by the head bin in 2012 with the players assessment taking 10 minutes. If concussed the player must then recover by first returning to general activities in life, then progressing back to playing. Returning to play, the player must follow the Graduated Return to Play (GRTP) protocol, by having clearance from a medical professional, and no symptoms of concussion.\n\nNumerous reports have indicated that female athletes suffer more concussions than male athletes. A December 2008 report states that 29,167 female high school soccer players in the United States suffered from concussions in 2005, compared to 20,929 male players. In high school basketball, 12,923 girls suffered from concussions while only 3,823 boys did. Girls also sustained more concussions in softball, compared to boys in baseball. Female athletes also had longer recovery times than males, and also had lower scores on visual memory tests. Girls also have longer recovery times for concussions, which may be due to a greater rate of blood flow in the brain.\n\nWomen's ice hockey was reported as one of the most dangerous sports in the NCAA, with a concussion rate of 2.72 per 1,000 player hours. Even though men's ice hockey allows body checking, while women's ice hockey does not, the rate of concussions for men is 46% lower, at 1.47 per 1,000 player hours. College football also has lower concussion rates than women's hockey, with a rate of 2.34 per 1,000.\n\nWomen’s basketball is one of the women’s sports with the highest risks of getting a concussion. Women have a greater risk of getting a concussion by dribbling/ball handling rather than defending. Also it was found that female college basketball players typically receive concussions during games rather than practices.\n\nThere has been a rise in the number of concussions each year, but this can be because of the fact that there is now more awareness of concussions and the symptoms of them. In order to be able to prevent concussions, there needs to be more awareness to second impact syndrome as well as chronic traumatic encephalopathy. The reason for this is because when looking at cases where death was the result of a concussion, it was prevalent that they partook in physical activity too soon which resulted in death. There have been numerous attempts at preventing concussions, such as the establishment of the PACE (Protecting Athletes Through Concussion Education) program, which works with the imPACT system, which is currently used by every NFL and some NHL teams.As a college athlete the NCAA requires all sports to take a baseline test with imPACT, so they know where we are at before an injury occurs. This is helps the athletic trainers or any doctor with the post injury plan. This test also allows them to compare our results from the baseline to the actual injury to determine how severe it is. In 2008, the Arena Football League tested an impact monitor created by Schutt Sports called the \"Shockometer\", which is a triangular device attached to the back of football helmets that has a light on the device that turns red when a concussion occurs. Some prevention's may include having them in booster seats, making sure your child’s helmet is the proper size and fit lastly playing on playgrounds that have soft surfaces. The NFL League has started designing helmets to help with the contact to the brain. These helmets wont 100% prevent a concussion, but they are designed to soften the blow that the head will take in order to minimize the damage that would be done. Although this new product is very expensive i think its safe to say that they are willing to do whatever possible it prevent these types of injuries.Riddell has also created the Head Impact Telemetry System (HITS) and Sideline Response System (SRS) to record the frequency and severity of player hits during practices and games. On every helmet with the system, MX Encoders are implemented, which can automatically record every hit. Eight NFL teams had originally planned to use the system in the season, but the NFL Players Association ultimately blocked its use. Other impact-detection devices include CheckLight, by Reebok and MC10., and the online test providers ImPACT Test, BrainCheck, and XLNTbrain which establish cognitive function baselines against which the athlete is monitored over time. The CCAT online tool developed by Axon Sports is another test to assist doctors in assessing concussion.\n\nIn 2012, film producer Steve James created the documentary film \"Head Games\", interviewing former NHL player Keith Primeau, and the parents of Owen Thomas, who hanged himself after sustaining brain damage during his football career at Penn. The documentary also interviewed former athletes Christopher Nowinski, Cindy Parlow, and \"New York Times\" reporter Alan Schwarz, among other athletes, journalists, and medical researchers.\n\n\"League of Denial\" was a 2013 book by sports reporters Mark Fainaru-Wada and Steve Fainaru about concussions within the NFL. The American documentary series \"Frontline\" covered the topic in two episodes, one based on the book and also called \"League of Denial\", and the other called \"Football High\" Political sports journalist Dave Zirin has also covered the topic in detail.\n\n"}
{"id": "33136966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33136966", "title": "Die rote Kapelle", "text": "Die rote Kapelle\n\nDie rote Kapelle is a 1972 West German television mini series on the anti-Nazi resistance and espionage organization called \"Red Orchestra\" by the Gestapo.\nThe series was released one year after the East German film \"KLK an PTX - Die rote Kapelle\" on the very same subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "8008410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8008410", "title": "Downtime", "text": "Downtime\n\nThe term downtime is used to refer to periods when a system is unavailable.\nDowntime or outage duration refers to a period of time that a system fails to provide or perform its primary function. Reliability, availability, recovery, and unavailability are related concepts.\nThe unavailability is the proportion of a time-span that a system is unavailable or offline.\nThis is usually a result of the system failing to function because of an unplanned event, or because of routine maintenance (a planned event).\n\nThe term is commonly applied to networks and servers. The common reasons for unplanned outages are system failures (such as a crash) or communications failures (commonly known as network outage).\n\nThe term is also commonly applied in industrial environments in relation to failures in industrial production equipment. Some facilities measure the downtime incurred during a work shift, or during a 12- or 24-hour period. Another common practice is to identify each downtime event as having an operational, electrical or mechanical origin.\n\nThe opposite of downtime is uptime.\n\nIndustry standards for the term \"Outage Duration\" or \"Maintenance Duration\" can have different point of initiation and completion thus the following clarification should be used to avoid conflicts in contract execution:\n\nAny on-line testing, performance testing and tuning required should not count towards the outage duration as these activities are typically conducted after the completion of outage or maintenance event and are out of control of most maintenance contractors.\n\nUnplanned downtime may be the result of a software bug, human error, equipment failure, malfunction, high bit error rate, power failure, overload due to exceeding the channel capacity, a cascading failure, etc.\n\nDowntime can be caused by failure in\nhardware (physical equipment),\nsoftware (logic controlling equipment),\ninterconnecting equipment (such as cables, facilities, routers...),\nwireless transmission (wireless, microwave, satellite), and/or\ncapacity (system limits).\n\nThe failures can occur because of\ndamage,\nfailure,\ndesign,\nprocedural (improper use by humans),\nengineering (how to use and deployment),\noverload (traffic or system resources stressed beyond designed limits),\nenvironment (support systems like power and HVAC),\nscheduled downtime (outages designed into the system for a purpose such as software upgrades and equipment growth),\nother (none of the above but known), or\nunknown.\n\nThe failures can be the responsibility of\ncustomer/service provider,\nvendor/supplier,\nutility,\ngovernment,\ncontractor,\nend customer,\npublic individual,\nact of nature,\nother (none of the above but known), or\nunknown.\n\nOutages caused by system failures can have a serious impact on the users of computer/network systems, in particular those industries that rely on a nearly 24-hour service:\n\nAlso affected can be the users of an ISP and other customers of a telecommunication network.\n\nCorporations can lose business due to network outage or they may default on a contract, resulting in financial losses. According to Veeam Availability Report, organizations encounter unplanned downtime, on average, 13 times per year with the average cost of one hour of downtime for a mission-critical applications equal to $82,864.\n\nThose people or organizations that are affected by downtime can be more sensitive to particular aspects:\n\nThe most demanding users are those that require high availability.\n\nOn Mother's Day, Sunday, May 8, 1988, a fire broke out in the main switching room of the Hinsdale Central Office of the Illinois Bell telephone company. One of the largest switching systems in the state, the facility processed more than 3.5 million calls each day while serving 38,000 customers, including numerous businesses, hospitals, and Chicago's O'Hare and Midway Airports.\n\nVirtually the entire AT&T network of 4ESS toll tandems switches went in and out of service over and over again on Jan. 15, 1990 disrupting long distance service for the entire United States. The problem dissipated by itself when traffic slowed down. A software bug was found.\n\nAT&T lost its frame relay network for 26 hours on April 13, 1998. This affected many thousands of customers, and bank transactions were one casualty. AT&T failed to meet the service level agreement on their contracts with customers and had to refund 6,600 customer accounts, costing millions of dollars.\n\nXbox Live had intermittent downtime during the 2007–2008 holiday season which lasted thirteen days. Increased demand from Xbox 360 purchasers (the largest number of new user sign-ups in the history of Xbox Live) was given as the reason for the downtime; in order to make amends for the service issues, Microsoft offered their users the opportunity to receive a free game.\n\nSony's PlayStation Network April 2011 outage, began on April 20, 2011, and was gradually restored on May 14, 2011 starting in the United States. This outage is the longest amount of time the PSN has been offline since its inception in 2006. Sony has stated the problem was caused by an external intrusion which resulted in the confiscation of personal information. Sony reported on April 26, 2011 that a large amount of user data had been obtained by the same hack that resulted in the downtime.\n\nTelstra's Ryde switch failed in late 2011 after water egressed into the electrical switch board from continuing wet weather. The Ryde switch is one of the largest by area switches in Australia, and affected more than 720,000 services.\n\nThe Miami datacenter of ServerAxis went offline unannounced on February 29, 2016 and was never restored. This impacted multiple providers and hundreds of websites. The outage impacted coverage of the 2016 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament as WBBState, one of the affected sites, was by far the most comprehensive provider of women's basketball statistics available.\n\nIn service level agreements, it is common to mention a percentage value (per month or per year) that is calculated by dividing the sum of all downtimes timespans by the total time of a reference time span (e.g. a month). 0% downtime means that the server was available all the time.\n\nFor Internet servers downtimes above 1% per year or worse can be regarded as unacceptable as this means a downtime of more than 3 days per year. For e-commerce and other industrial use any value above 0.1% is usually considered unacceptable.\n\nIt is the duty of the network designer to make sure that a network outage does not happen. When it does happen, a well-designed system will further reduce the effects of an outage by having localized outages which can be detected and fixed as soon as possible.\n\nA process needs to be in place to detect a malfunction - network monitoring - and to restore the network to a working condition - this generally involves a help desk team that can troubleshoot a problem, one composed of trained engineers; a separate help desk team is usually necessary in order to field user input, which can be particularly demanding during a downtime.\n\nA network management system can be used to detect faulty or degrading components prior to customer complaints, with proactive fault rectification.\n\nRisk management techniques can be used to determine the impact of network outages on an organisation and what actions may be required to minimise risk. Risk may be minimised by using reliable components, by performing maintenance, such as upgrades, by using redundant systems or by having a contingency plan or business continuity plan.\nTechnical means can reduce errors with error correcting codes, retransmission, checksums, or diversity scheme.\n\nOne of the biggest causes of downtime is misconfiguration, where a planned change goes wrong. Typically organisations rely on manual effort to manage the process of configuration backups, but this requires highly skilled engineers with the time to manage the process across a multi-vendor network. Automation tools are available to manage backups, but there are very few solutions that handle configuration recovery which is needed to minimize the overall impact of the outage.\n\nA planned outage is the result of a planned activity by the system owner and/or by a service provider. These outages, often scheduled during the maintenance window, can be used to perform tasks including the following:\n\n\nOutages can also be planned as a result of a predictable natural event, such as Sun outage.\n\nMaintenance downtimes have to be carefully scheduled in industries that rely on computer systems. In many cases, system-wide downtimes can be averted using what is called a \"rolling upgrade\" - the process of incrementally taking down parts of the system for upgrade, without affecting the overall functionality.\n\nFor most websites, website monitoring is available. Website monitoring (synthetic or passive) is a service that \"monitors\" downtime and users on the site.\n\nDowntime can also refer to time when human capital or other assets go down. For instance, if employees are in meetings or unable to perform their work due to another constraint, they are down. This can be equally expensive, and can be the result of another asset (i.e. computer/systems) being down. This is also commonly known as \"dead time\".\n\nThis term is used also in factories or industrial use. See total productive maintenance (TPM).\n\nThere are many external services which can be used to monitor the uptime and downtime as well as availability of a service or a host.\n\n\nWebsite Downtime Intro and Tips\n"}
{"id": "1962025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962025", "title": "Early 2000s recession", "text": "Early 2000s recession\n\nThe early 2000s recession was a decline in economic activity which mainly occurred in developed countries. The recession affected the European Union during 2000 and 2001 and the United States in 2002 and 2003. The UK, Canada and Australia avoided the recession, while Russia, a nation that did not experience prosperity during the 1990s, in fact began to recover from said situation. Japan's 1990s recession continued. This recession was predicted by economists, because the boom of the 1990s (accompanied by both low inflation and low unemployment) slowed in some parts of East Asia during the 1997 Asian financial crisis. \n\nAfter the relatively mild 1990 recession ended in early 1992, the country hit a belated unemployment rate peak of 7.8% in mid-1992. Job growth was initially muted by large layoffs among defense related industries. However, payrolls accelerated in 1992 and experienced robust growth through 2000.\n\nPredictions that the bubble would burst emerged during the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s. Predictions about a future burst increased following the October 27, 1997 mini-crash, in the wake of the Asian crisis. This caused an uncertain economic climate during the first few months of 1998. However conditions improved, and the Federal Reserve raised interest rates six times between June 1999 and May 2000 in an effort to cool the economy to achieve a soft landing. The burst of the stock market bubble occurred in the form of the NASDAQ crash in March 2000. Growth in gross domestic product slowed considerably in the third quarter of 2000 to the lowest rate since a contraction in the first quarter of 1992.\n\nThe NBER's Business Cycle Dating Committee has determined that a peak in business activity occurred in the U.S. economy in March 2001. A peak marks the end of an expansion and the beginning of a recession. The determination of a peak date in March is thus a determination that the expansion that began in March 1992 ended in March 2001 and a recession began. The expansion lasted almost 10 years, the longest in the NBER's chronology. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), which is the private, nonprofit, nonpartisan organization charged with determining economic recessions, the U.S. economy was in recession from March 2001 to November 2001, a period of eight months at the beginning of President George W. Bush's term of office. However, economic conditions did not satisfy the common shorthand definition of recession, which is \"a fall of a country's real gross domestic product in two or more successive quarters\", and has led to some confusion about the procedure for determining the starting and ending dates of a recession.\n\nThe NBER's Business Cycle Dating Committee (BCDC) uses monthly, rather than quarterly, indicators to determine peaks and troughs in business activity, as can be seen by noting that starting and ending dates are given by month and year, not quarters. However, controversy over the precise dates of the recession led to the characterization of the recession as the \"Clinton Recession\" by Republicans, if it could be traced to the final term of President Bill Clinton.\nBCDC members suggested they would be open to revisiting the dates of the recession as newer and more definitive data became available. In early 2004, NBER President Martin Feldstein said:\nHowever, the NBER has since confirmed that the recession started in March 2001.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2001, the Federal Reserve, in a move to protect the economy from the overvalued stock market, made successive interest rate increases; while this may have initiated the readjustment, it is starkly contrasted with the severe, prolonged recession that would have occurred had the unsustainable growth continued unabated. Using the stock market as an unofficial benchmark, a recession would have begun in March 2000 when the NASDAQ crashed following the collapse of the dot-com bubble. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was relatively unscathed by the NASDAQ's crash until the September 11, 2001 attacks, after which the DJIA suffered its worst one-day point loss and biggest one-week losses in history up to that point. The market rebounded, only to crash once more in the final two quarters of 2002. In the final three quarters of 2003, the market finally rebounded permanently, agreeing with the unemployment statistics that a recession defined in this way would have lasted from 2001 through 2003.\n\nThe Labor Department estimates that a net 1.735 million jobs were shed in 2001, with an additional net 508,000 lost during 2002. 2003 saw a small gain of a mere 105,000 jobs. Unemployment rose from 4.2% in February 2001 to 5.5% in November 2001, but did not peak until June 2003 at 6.3%, after which it declined to 5% by mid-2005.\n\nCanada's economy is closely linked to that of the United States, and economic conditions south of the border tend to quickly make their way north. Canada's stock markets were especially hard hit by the collapse in high-tech stocks. For much of the 1990s the rapid rise of the TSX had almost wholly been attributed to two stocks: Nortel and BCE. Both companies were hard hit by the downturn, especially Nortel, which was forced to lay off much of its workforce. The events of September 11 also hurt the Canadian stock markets and were especially devastating to the already troubled airline sector.\n\nHowever, in the wider economy, Canada was surprisingly unhurt by these events. While growth slowed, the economy never actually entered a recession. This was the first time that Canada had avoided following the United States into an economic downturn. The rate of job creation in Canada continued at the rapid pace of the 1990s. A number of explanations have been advanced to explain this. Canada was not as directly affected by 9/11 and the subsequent wars, and the downward pressure of these events was more muted. Canada's fiscal management during the period has been praised as the federal government continued to bring in large surpluses throughout this period, in sharp contrast to the United States. Unlike the United States no major tax cuts or major new expenditures were introduced. However, during this time, Canada did pursue an expansionary monetary policy in an effort to reduce the effects of a possible recession. Many provincial governments suffered greater problems with a number of them returning to deficits, which was blamed on the fiscal imbalance. 2003 saw elections in six Canadian provinces and in only one did the governing party not lose seats.\n\nThe Soviet Union's last year of economic growth was 1989, and throughout the 1990s, recession ensued in the Former Soviet Republics. In May 1998, following the 1997 crash of the East Asian economy, things began to get even worse in Russia. In August 1998, the value of the ruble fell 34% and people clamored to get their money out of banks (see 1998 Russian financial crisis). The government acted by dragging its feet on privatization programs. Russians responded to this situation with approval by electing the more pro-dirigist and less liberal Vladimir Putin as President in 2000. Putin proceeded to reassert the role of the federal government, and gave it power it had not seen since the Soviet era. State-run businesses were used to out-compete some of the more wealthy rivals of Putin. Putin's policies were popular with the Russian people, gaining him re-election in 2004. At the same time, the export-oriented Russian economy enjoyed considerable influx of foreign currency thanks to rising worldwide oil prices (from $15 per barrel in early 1999 to an average of $30 per barrel during Putin's first term). The early 2000s recession was avoided in Russia due to rebound in exports and, to some degree, a return to dirigisme.\n\nJapan's recession, which started in the early 1990s, continued into the 2000s, with deflation being the main problem. Deflation began plaguing Japan in the fiscal year ending 1999, and by 2005 the yen had 103% of its 2000 buying power. The Bank of Japan attempted to cultivate inflation with high liquidity and a nominal 0% interest rate on loans. Other aspects of the Japanese economy were good during the early 2000s; unemployment remained relatively low, and China became somewhat dependent on the Japanese exports. The bear market, however, continued in Japan, despite the best efforts of the Bank.\n\nTransition left the economy of the European Union in a cautiously optimistic state during the early 2000s. The most difficult years were 2000–2001, precipitating the worst years of the American recession. The European Union introduced a new currency on January 1, 1999. The euro, which was met with much anticipation, had its value immediately plummet, and it continued to be a weak currency throughout 2000 and 2001. Inflation struck the Eurozone for a few months in summer 2001 but the economy deflated within months. In 2002, the value of the euro began to rapidly rise (reaching parity with the US dollar on July 15, 2002). This hurt business for companies based in Europe, as the profits made abroad (especially in the Americas) had an unfavorable exchange rate.\n\nFrance and Germany both entered recession towards the end of 2001, but in May 2002 both countries declared that their recessions had ended after a mere six months each. Both economies suffered from global tech crash with the ruling German party introducing the then unpopular austerity, tax cuts and labor reforms nicknamed Hartz concept to boost the German economy in wake of an economic slump that would persist until the mid-2000s with unemployment peaking in Early 2005 of 12.7%. However, some European Union countries – including the United Kingdom – managed to delay sliding into recession until the late 2000s.\n"}
{"id": "1208874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1208874", "title": "Edward II (play)", "text": "Edward II (play)\n\nEdward II is a Renaissance or Early Modern period play written by Christopher Marlowe. It is one of the earliest English history plays. The full title of the first publication is The Troublesome Reign and Lamentable Death of Edward the Second, King of England, with the Tragical Fall of Proud Mortimer.\n\nMarlowe found most of his material for this play in the third volume of Raphael Holinshed's \"Chronicles\" (1587). Frederick Boas believes that \"out of all the rich material provided by Holinshed\" Marlowe was drawn to \"the comparatively unattractive reign of Edward II\" due to the relationship between the King and Gaveston. Boas elaborates, \"Homosexual affection ... has (as has been seen) a special attraction for Marlowe. Jove and Ganymede in \"Dido\", Henry III and his 'minions' in \"The Massacre\", Neptune and Leander in \"Hero and Leander\", and all akin, although drawn to a slighter scale, to Edward and Gaveston.\" Boas also notes the existence of a number of parallels between \"Edward II\" and \"The Massacre at Paris\", asserting that \"it is scarcely too much to say that scenes xi–xxi of \"The Massacre\" are something in the nature of a preliminary sketch for \"Edward II\".\" Marlowe stayed close to the account but embellished it with the character of Lightborn (or Lucifer) as Edward's assassin.\n\nThe play was entered into the Stationers' Register on 6 July 1593, five weeks after Marlowe's death. The earliest extant edition was published in octavo in 1594, printed by Robert Robinson for the bookseller William Jones; a second edition, issued in 1598, was printed by Richard Braddock for Jones. Subsequent editions were published in 1612, by Richard Barnes, and in 1622, by Henry Bell.\n\nThe 1594 first edition of the play is very rare and was uncovered only in 1876. Only one copy, held at the Zentralbibliothek Zürich, was known to exist after a second was lost in the Second World War. In 2012, a third copy was discovered in Germany by Jeffrey Masten, a scholar of English Renaissance literature and the history of sexuality and a faculty member at Northwestern University. The volume was bound with a treatise arguing against the execution of heretics and another on Turkey and Islam.\n\nThere have never been any doubts about the authorship of the play. Dodsley included it in his \"Select Collection of Old Plays\" in 1744, but Marlowe's name was not even mentioned in the preface. Marlowe's reputation was still damaged by Thomas Beard's libel in \"The Theatre of God's Judgement\", published in 1597.\n\nThe play telescopes most of Edward II's reign into a single narrative, beginning with the recall of his favourite, Piers Gaveston, from exile, and ending with his son, Edward III, executing Mortimer Junior for the king's murder.\n\nMarlowe's play opens at the outset of the reign, with Edward's exiled favourite, Piers Gaveston, rejoicing at the recent death of Edward I and his own resulting ability to return to England. In the following passage he plans the entertainments with which he will delight the king:\n\nUpon Gaveston's re-entry into the country, Edward gives him titles, access to the royal treasury, and the option of having guards protect him. Although Gaveston himself is not of noble birth, he maintains that he is better than common people and craves pleasing shows, Italian masques, music and poetry. However, as much as Gaveston pleases the king he finds scant favour from the king's nobles, who are soon clamouring for Gaveston's exile. Almost as soon as he arrives, Gaveston and Edward's court begin to quarrel. Edward is forced to agree to this and banishes Gaveston to Ireland. Isabella of France, the Queen, who still hopes for his favour, persuades Mortimer, who later becomes her lover, to argue for his recall, though only so that he may be more conveniently murdered. The nobles accordingly soon find an excuse to turn on Gaveston again, and eventually capture and execute him. Before executing Gaveston, Edward requests to see Gaveston one more time. Arundel and Pembroke agree to Edward's request. However, Warwick attacks and kills Gaveston while he is being taken to Edward. Edward in turn executes two of the nobles who persecuted Gaveston, Warwick and Lancaster.\n\nEdward then seeks comfort in new favourites, Spencer and his father. This alienates Isabella, who takes Mortimer as her lover and travels to France with her son in search of allies. France, however, will not help the queen and refuses to give her arms, although she does get help from Sir John of Hainault. Edward, both in the play and in history, is nothing like the soldier his father was – it was during his reign that the English army was disastrously defeated at Bannockburn – and is soon . Edward takes refuge in Neath Abbey, but is betrayed by a mower, who emblematically carries a scythe. Both Spencers are executed, and the king himself is taken to Kenilworth. His brother Edmund, Earl of Kent, after having initially renounced his cause, now tries to help him but realizes too late the power the young Mortimer now has. Arrested for approaching the imprisoned Edward, Edmund is taken to court, where Mortimer, Isabella, and Edward III preside. He is executed by Mortimer, who claims he is a threat to the throne, despite the pleading of Edward III.\n\nThe prisoner king is then taken to Berkeley Castle, where he meets the luxuriously cruel Lightborn, whose name is an anglicised version of \"Lucifer\". Despite knowing that Lightborn is there to kill him, Edward asks him to stay by his side. Lightborn, realizing that the king will not fall for delay, has him restrained by four men, and murders him by burning out his bowels from the inside with a red hot poker (so as not to leave external marks of violence). Maltravers and Gurney witness this, before Gurney kills Lightborn to keep his silence. Later, however, Gurney flees, and Mortimer sends Maltravers after him, as they fear betrayal. Isabella arrives to warn Mortimer that Edward III, her son with Edward II, has discovered their plot. Before they can plan accordingly, her son arrives with attendants and other lords, accusing Mortimer of murder. Mortimer denies this, but eventually is arrested and taken away. He tells Isabella not to weep for him, and the queen begs her son to show Mortimer mercy, but he refuses. Edward III then orders Mortimer's death and his mother's imprisonment, and the play ends with him taking the throne.\n\nHomoeroticism and Sodomy\n\nEdward and Gaveston's homoerotic relationship provides the backdrop for the play. When Gaveston plans to produce his masque, he describes \"a lovely boy in Dian's shape… / And in his sportful hands an olive tree/ To hide those parts which men delight to see\" (1.2.60–63). Gaveston is deeply aware of the theatre's ability to eroticize young male actors. The Queen feels jealous of Gaveston and Edward's relationship, noting: \"For now my lord the king regards me not, / But dotes upon the love of Gaveston. / He claps his cheeks and hangs about his neck, / Smiles in his face and whispers in his ears\" (2.2.49–52).\n\nMuch of the criticism focused on \"Edward II\" focuses on homoeroticism and power. For example, Emily Bartels's \"Spectacles of Strangeness\"—which focuses on how Marlowe depicts \"others\" and how that depiction exposes \"demonization of the other as a strategy for self-authorization and self-empowerment\"—has a chapter on \"Edward II\" entitled \"The Show of Sodomy.\" In this chapter, Bartels focuses on how sodomy is politicized, exposed, and defined, stating, \"In Marlowe, sodomy is finally neither unseeable nor unspeakable. Rather it is exposed as a subject obscured and displayed as beyond display by those who would maintain a hegemonic hold over 'what the matter meant.'\" In order to show how sodomy works in Marlowe's plays, Bartels places particular attention to the tension between how sodomy is hidden in the play and then sanctioned as the means of killing Edward. Bartels pays close attention to the fact that Lightborne's murder of the king leaves no marks on his body. She concludes that \"sodomical leanings...are not politically corrupt. Though largely unspoken, they are not unspeakable.\"\n\nSodomy was not a clearly defined act in the early modern period. Jonathan Goldberg asserts that sodomy was \"invisible so long as homosexual acts failed to connect with the much more visible signs of social disruption represented by unorthodox religious or social positions.\" David Stymeist reconciles two opposing critical approaches to \"Edward II\"—one that views the play as subversive towards sexual norms and one that upholds sexual norms—by paying attention to how the play presents alternative sexuality and how it punishes sexual transgressions.\n\nReligion\n\n\"Edward II\" presents tension between the church and the state. When Edward and Gaveston strip the Bishop of Coventry of his lands and possessions, they joke subversively about religious traditions. Edward and Gaveston mock the Bishop as they attack him. Before the play takes place, the Bishop advocates for Gaveston's exile. As Edward and Gaveston attack the Bishop, they mock Catholic symbols as they assert their power over the Bishop:\n\nGaveston: Saving your reverence, you must pardon me.\n\n[He lays hold of him.]\n\nEdward: Throw off his golden mitre, rend his stole,\n\nAnd in the channel christen him anew (1.1.185–89).\n\nEdward and Gaveston attack the symbols of the church—baptisms, pardons, and church attire—to humiliate the Bishop. After Edward allows Gaveston to take the Bishop's possessions, Gaveston states, \"A prison may beseem his holiness\" (1.1.206). Later in the play, the Archbishop of Canterbury threatens to \"discharge these lords / Of duty and allegiance to [Edward],\" and Edward asks, \"Why should a king be subject to a priest?\" (1.4.61–62, 96). In her essay \"Marlowe, History, and Politics,\" Paulina Kewes asserts that \"Edward II\" uses religious history to comment on politics: \"Marlowe...[invites] the audience to consider the contingent religious colouring of the conflict between the crown and the nobility...Marlowe's target is the widespread use of religion to justify political heterodoxy.\"\n\nSocial Status\n\n\"Edward II\" is a play that is deeply aware of social status and its relationship to birthrights. Mortimer is deeply resentful of Gaveston's social mobility and repeatedly claims that Gaveston is \"hardly a gentleman by birth\" (1.4.29). Later, when Mortimer Senior asserts that \"the mightiest kings have had their minions\" (1.4.390), Mortimer responds that Gaveston's \"wanton humour grieves [him] not, but this [he scorns], that one so basely born / Should by his sovereign's favour grow so pert / And riot it with the treasure of the realm\" (1.4.401–04). The nobility's treatment of Spencer and Spencer Senior mirrors their treatment of Gaveston. When Spencer and Lancaster start arguing about treason, Pembroke responds by calling Spencer a \"base upstart\" (3.3.21). The nobility also call Spencer a flatterer multiple times. However, in \"Edward II\", social mobility, social status, and power come with consequences. Clifford Leech shows how the play ties together themes of power, social status, and suffering, stating, \"In \"Tamburlaine\" [Marlowe] had already contemplated power, and saw the spectacle inevitably involved suffering. Here the suffering, still consequential on the exercise and the dream of power, is the major fact.\" Leech notes that each of the characters who strives for power or holds a powerful position in the play—Edward, Gaveston, the Queen,and Mortimer—each meets a tragic end as they vie for power\n\nAccording to Andrew Gurr, the first known performance of \"Edward II\" was in 1592 by the Earl of Pembroke's Men, possibly at the Theatre. Roslyn Knutson has speculated on the original performance for \"Edward II\". In her essay, \"Marlowe, Company Ownership, and the Role of Edward II,\" she argues that \"Edward II\" was written for Edward Alleyn and Strange's Men; however, Pembroke's Men performed \"Edward II\" with Richard Burbage (the most prominent actor in William Shakespeare's playing company) as Edward. Knutson uses the number of lines assigned to players, Marlowe's familiarity to the different play companies, and the role of Isabella to provide evidence for her argument. She concludes that Burbage's performance in \"Edward II\" influenced how Shakespeare designed roles for Burbage.\n\nThe first quarto of 1594 states that the play was originally performed by the Earl of Pembroke's Men. According to E.K. Chambers, \"Edward II\" was one of three plays sold to booksellers—along with \"The Taming of A Shrew\" and \"The True Tragedy of Richard Duke of York\"—and was probably the only one of those three not worked on by Shakespeare. Mathew Martin argues that the Roger Barnes's 1612 version of \"Edward II\"—while traditionally seen as a corrupt publishing of the play—reveals how the play was received in Jacobean England and how the play was revised to draw attention to King James's controversial promotion of male favorites. The title page of the 1622 edition states that the play was performed by Queen Anne's Men at the Red Bull Theatre, showing that \"Edward II\" was still in the active repertory well into the seventeenth century.\n\nSince the twentieth century, the play has been revived several times, usually in such a way as to make explicit Edward's homosexuality.\n\nMarlowe's play was revived in November 1961 in a student performance at the University of Nottingham. It was frequently revived in the 1970s. The Prospect Theatre Company's production of the play, starring Ian McKellen and James Laurenson, caused a sensation when it was broadcast by the BBC during the 1970s (as it included the first gay kiss transmitted on British television). Numerous other productions followed, starring actors such as Simon Russell Beale and Joseph Fiennes. In 1995 a ballet adaptation was created for Stuttgart Ballet.\n\nIn 1977, the 26-episode BBC radio drama \"Vivat Rex\" included an abridged version of the play as its first two episodes. John Hurt portrayed Edward.\n\nIn 1986 Nicholas Hytner directed a production at the Royal Exchange, Manchester with Ian McDiarmid, Michael Grandage, Iain Glen and Duncan Bell.\n\nIn 1991, the play was adapted into a film by Derek Jarman which used modern costumes and made overt reference to the gay rights movement and the Stonewall riots.\n\nIn 2000, a production of the play was presented in Los Angeles by the ARK Theatre Company, founded by former RSC member Paul Wagar. The production was directed by Don Stewart.\n\nThe Washington, D.C.'s Shakespeare Theatre Company 2007 staging used mostly fascist-era and jazz age costumes. The production strongly emphasized the gay relationship between Edward II and Gaveston and was one of two Marlowe works inaugurating the company's new Sidney Harman Hall.\n\nin 2011 EM-LOU Productions staged the play at The Rose Theatre, Bankside, returning it (for the first time in 400 years) to the space where it may have had its very first production. The production was directed by Peter Darney.\n\nThe play continues to be popular, with University of Birmingham students staging it in November 2012.\n\nIn August 2013 the play was revived by the National Theatre in their Olivier auditorium, with John Heffernan taking the title role.\n\nIn October 2013, the New National Theatre Tokyo staged the play in Japanese, featuring Mori Shintaro as a director.\n\nOn 21 May 2015 a production by Scena Mundi opened at St Bartholomew the Great in Smithfield London, scheduled to run until 2 July.\n\nOn 1 October 2015 a production by Sport for Jove opened at the Seymour Centre Sydney, directed by Terry Karabelas.\n\nOn 29 July 2016 an adaptation titled \"Edward II\" opened at Malthouse Theatre, Melbourne, Australia, directed by Matthew Lutton and written by Anthony Weigh.\n\nOn 29 September 2016 a production by the UBC Department of Theatre and Film opened at the Chan Centre in Vancouver, BC, Canada, scheduled to run until 15 October 2016.\n\nIn January 2017, Oxford University students presented a version of the play at Oxford Playhouse, noting parallels with the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe play was adapted by Bertolt Brecht and Lion Feuchtwanger in 1923 as \"The Life of Edward II of England (Leben Eduard des Zweiten von England)\". The Brecht version, while acknowledging Marlowe's play as its source, uses Brecht's own words, ideas, and structure, and is regarded as a separate work. The German premiere took place in 1924 under Brecht's direction at the Munich Kammerspiele with Erwin Faber and Hans Schweikart as Edward and Baldock; the New York premiere of Brecht's \"The Life of Edward II of England\" took place in 1982, staged by W. Stuart McDowell by the Riverside Shakespeare Company, sponsored by Joseph Papp and the New York Shakespeare Festival at The Shakespeare Center on Manhattan's Upper West Side.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3544991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3544991", "title": "False evidence", "text": "False evidence\n\nFalse evidence, fabricated evidence, forged evidence or tainted evidence is information created or obtained illegally, to sway the verdict in a court case. Falsified evidence could be created by either side in a case (including the police/prosecution in a criminal case), or by someone sympathetic to either side. Misleading by suppressing evidence can also be considered a form of false evidence (by omission), however, in some cases, suppressed evidence is excluded because it cannot be proved the accused was aware of the items found or of their location. The analysis of evidence (forensic evidence) may also be forged if the person doing the forensic work finds it easier to fabricate evidence and test results than to perform the actual work involved. Parallel construction is a form of false evidence in which the evidence is truthful but its origins are untruthfully described, at times in order to avoid evidence being excluded as inadmissible due to unlawful means of procurement such as an unlawful search.\n\nApart from the desire for one side or another to succeed or fail in its case, the exact rationale for falsifying evidence can vary. Falsifying evidence to procure the conviction of those honestly believed guilty is considered a form of police corruption even though it is intended to (and may) result in the conviction of the guilty; however it may also reflect the incorrect prejudices of the falsifier, and it also tends to encourage corrupt police behavior generally. In the United Kingdom, this is sometimes called 'Noble Cause Corruption'. A \"throw down\", i.e. the planting of a weapon at a crime scene might be used by the police to justify shooting the victim in self-defense, and avoid possible prosecution for manslaughter. However, the accused might have falsified some evidence, especially if not arrested immediately, or by having other access to a crime scene and related areas.\n\n\nIn some criminal cases, a person will be identified as a \"person of interest\" for a few days before arrest, allowing time to reveal suspicious actions (such as in recorded phone calls), or to attempt to falsify evidence before their arrest. A type of falsified evidence, used to acquit, would be faked sales receipts which indicated activities (with the accused) had occurred elsewhere during the time of the crime.\n\nIn June 1970 a Pukekawa, Lower Waikato, couple were killed and their bodies dumped in the Waikato River. Arthur Allan Thomas, a local farmer, was twice convicted of their murders but following massive publicity was later given a Royal Pardon.\n\nTwo bullet cases presented by senior policemen Hutton and Johnston were crucial evidence for the conviction. In 1980, after Thomas's pardon a Royal commission into the convictions concluded \"Mr Hutton and Mr Johnston planted the shellcase, exhibit 350 in the Crewe garden, and that they did so to manufacture evidence that Mr Thomas's rifle had been used for the killings.\"\n\nIn 1975, after the shooting death of Bernard Whitehurst by a Montgomery, Alabama police officer who mistakenly thought Whitehurst was the suspect in the robbery of a neighborhood grocery store, there was a police cover-up that included police officers planting a gun on him from the police evidence room. The coroner relied on police reports that Whitehurst was killed by a bullet fired through the chest. After an investigation by the local newspaper and local attorney Donald Watkins raised questions about the facts of the case, six months later, the District Attorney James Evans ordered the body to be exhumed and an autopsy to be performed. The results of the autopsy showed that Whitehurst had been shot in the back. The attempted cover-up led to the resignation of eight police officers, the city’s mayor, James Robinson and the Director of Public Safety, Ed Wright. No police officer was convicted of a crime. Forty years later, the Montgomery City Council passes a resolution that formally expressed regret for the shooting and cover-up.\n\nIn 1992, 11-year-old Holly Staker was raped and murdered while babysitting in Waukegan, Illinois. A local man named Juan Rivera was convicted of the murder solely on the basis of a confession, one that he claimed was coerced. No physical evidence linked him to the crime scene and many details of his confession contradicted known evidence from the crime scene. DNA testing done in 2004 on semen taken from the crime scene ruled out Rivera as the source, however, the prosecution argued that the semen sample came from previous consensual sex with another man. Rivera was convicted again. His conviction was overturned by the appellate court who took the unusual step of barring prosecutors from retrying Rivera and he was released.\n\nAfter his release, Rivera's attorneys asked the courts to order genetic testing on a piece of evidence the prosecution had tried to use at his trial in 1993. Rivera's shoes had blood on them, which the prosecution argued belonged to Holly. The prosecution withdrew them prior to his first trial when it was discovered that the shoes were not available for sale anywhere in the United States until after the murder. In 2015, Juan's attorney sought further forensic testing on the shoes. DNA analysis indicated that the blood indeed belonged to Holly, but also contained another genetic sample; one that matched the semen sample. Rivera's defense team insists that this is proof not only that the blood was planted, but that the real killer's DNA was inadvertently planted as well. The DNA has yet to be matched to an individual, but has been linked to DNA from another home invasion and murder. The man convicted of that crime also claims to be wrongfully convicted.\n\nFollowing his exoneration, he was awarded $20 million USD, the largest wrongful conviction settlement in US history.\n\nIn the New York State Police Troop C scandal of 1993, Craig D. Harvey, a New York State Police trooper, was charged with fabricating evidence. Harvey admitted he and another trooper lifted fingerprints from items the suspect, John Spencer, touched while in Troop C headquarters during booking. He attached the fingerprints to evidence cards and later claimed that he had pulled the fingerprints from the scene of the murder. The forged evidence was used during trial and John Spencer was sentenced to 50 years to life in prison.\n\nAfter the truth came out, it was discovered that they had been falsifying evidence in cases for many years. At least three officers were convicted. Every case the department had been involved in had to be reinvestigated.\n\nIn the 1990s, the fingerprint, DNA, and explosive units of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Laboratory had written reports confirming local police department theories without actually performing the work.\n\nSuch laws and regulatory procedures stipulating the conditions under which evidence can be handled and manipulated fall under a body of due process statues called chain of custody rules. It is crucial for law enforcement agencies to scrupulously collect, handle and transfer evidence in order to avoid its falsification. In most jurisdictions, chain of evidence rules require that the transfer of criminal evidence be handled by as few persons as possible. To prevent error or improper tampering, chain of evidence rules also stipulate that those authorized to experiment with collected evidence document the nature, time, date and duration of their handling.\n\nIn the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, soldiers have been known to place weapons on or near a slain individual to make that person appear to be an enemy combatant or insurgent. Alternatively, a drop weapon or other item is left in the open; any individual who picks it up may be fired upon; a process known as baiting.\n\nThe use of drop weapons has been the cause of some controversy in the Iraq War.\n\nIn 2008, three United States Army soldiers were found guilty of planting evidence in this way; one of them, Sgt. Evan Vela, was also sentenced to a 10-year prison term for murder of an unarmed Iraqi.\n\nA military court found that on the 27th of April, 2007, Specialist Jorge Sandoval, shot an Iraqi man, on the order of Staff Sgt. Michael Hensley. The two men then placed a spool of wire into the pocket of the dead man, who had been cutting grass with a rusty sickle. Hensley and Sandoval were charged with murder, of which they were acquitted, and with planting evidence, of which they were found guilty.\n\nThe Asymmetric Warfare Group is said by Captain Didier to have sent boxes of the kind normally used to hold ammunition filled with \"drop items\" to his unit, the 1st Battalion 501st Infantry Regiment in order \"to disrupt the AIF (Anti-Iraqi Forces) attempts at harming coalition forces and give us the upper hand in a fight.\"\n\nThe Independent newspaper quoted a spokesperson for the US military as saying: \"There are no classified programs that authorise the murder of local nationals and the use of 'drop weapons' to make killings appear legally justified.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58790", "title": "Fraud", "text": "Fraud\n\nIn law, fraud is deliberate deception to secure unfair or unlawful gain, or to deprive a victim of a legal right. Fraud itself can be a civil wrong (i.e., a fraud victim may sue the fraud perpetrator to avoid the fraud or recover monetary compensation), a criminal wrong (i.e., a fraud perpetrator may be prosecuted and imprisoned by governmental authorities), or it may cause no loss of money, property or legal right but still be an element of another civil or criminal wrong. The purpose of fraud may be monetary gain or other benefits, such as obtaining a passport or travel document, driver's license or qualifying for a mortgage by way of false statements.\n\nA hoax is a distinct concept that involves deliberate deception without the intention of gain or of materially damaging or depriving a victim.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, as a civil wrong, fraud is a tort. While the precise definitions and requirements of proof vary among jurisdictions, the requisite elements of fraud as a tort generally are the intentional misrepresentation or concealment of an important fact upon which the victim is meant to rely, and in fact does rely, to the harm of the victim. Proving fraud in a court of law is often said to be difficult. That difficulty is found, for instance, in that each and every one of the elements of fraud must be proven, that the elements include proving the states of mind of the perpetrator and the victim, and that some jurisdictions require the victim to prove fraud by clear and convincing evidence.\n\nThe remedies for fraud may include rescission (i.e., reversal) of a fraudulently obtained agreement or transaction, the recovery of a monetary award to compensate for the harm caused, punitive damages to punish or deter the misconduct, and possibly others.\n\nIn cases of a fraudulently induced contract, fraud may serve as a defense in a civil action for breach of contract or specific performance of contract.\n\nFraud may serve as a basis for a court to invoke its equitable jurisdiction.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, as a criminal offence, fraud takes many different forms, some general (e.g., theft by false pretense) and some specific to particular categories of victims or misconduct (e.g., bank fraud, insurance fraud, forgery). The elements of fraud as a crime similarly vary. The requisite elements of perhaps the most general form of criminal fraud, theft by false pretense, are the intentional deception of a victim by false representation or pretense with the intent of persuading the victim to part with property and with the victim parting with property in reliance on the representation or pretense and with the perpetrator intending to keep the property from the victim.\n\nSection 380(1) of the Criminal Code provides the general definition for fraud in Canada:\n\nIn addition to the penalties outlined above, the court can also issue a prohibition order under s. 380.2 (preventing a person from \"seeking, obtaining or continuing any employment, or becoming or being a volunteer in any capacity, that involves having authority over the real property, money or valuable security of another person\"). It can also make a restitution order under s. 380.3.\n\nThe Canadian courts have held that the offence consists of two distinct elements:\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada has held that deprivation is satisfied on proof of detriment, prejudice or risk of prejudice; it is not essential that there be actual loss. Deprivation of confidential information, in the nature of a trade secret or copyrighted material that has commercial value, has also been held to fall within the scope of the offence.\n\nThe proof requirements for criminal fraud charges in the United States are essentially the same as the requirements for other crimes: guilt must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. Throughout the United States fraud charges can be misdemeanors or felonies depending on the amount of loss involved. High value frauds can also include additional penalties. For example, in California losses of $500,000 or more will result in an extra two, three, or five years in prison in addition to the regular penalty for the fraud.\n\nThe U.S. government's 2006 fraud review concluded that fraud is a significantly under-reported crime, and while various agencies and organizations were attempting to tackle the issue, greater co-operation was needed to achieve a real impact in the public sector. The scale of the problem pointed to the need for a small but high-powered body to bring together the numerous counter-fraud initiatives that existed.\n\nAccording to Bloomberg, auto loan application fraud rates in the United States has been steadily rising over the past few years. This type of fraud expected to double from about $2–3 billion in 2015 to $4–6 billion in 2017.\n\nAlthough elements may vary by jurisdiction and the specific allegations made by a plaintiff who files a lawsuit that alleged fraud, typical elements of a fraud case in the United States are that:\n\nTo establish a civil claim of fraud, most jurisdictions in the United States require that each element of a fraud claim be pleaded with particularity and be proved by a preponderance of the evidence, meaning that it is more likely than not that the fraud occurred. Some jurisdictions impose a higher evidentiary standard, such as Washington State's requirement that the elements of fraud be proved with clear, cogent, and convincing evidence (very probable evidence), or Pennsylvania's requirement that common law fraud be proved by clear and convincing evidence.\n\nThe measure of damages in fraud cases is normally computed using one of two rules:\nSpecial damages may be allowed if shown to have been proximately caused by defendant's fraud and the damage amounts are proved with specificity.\n\nMany jurisdictions permit a plaintiff in a fraud case to seek punitive or exemplary damages.\n\nZhang Yingyu's story collection \"The Book of Swindles\" (available here; ca. 1617) testifies to rampant commercial fraud, especially involving itinerant businessmen, in late Ming China.\nThe journal Science reported in 2017 that fraud is rife in Chinese academia, resulting in numerous article retractions and harm to China's international prestige.\n\"The Economist\", CNN, and other media outlets regularly report on incidents of fraud or bad faith in Chinese business and trade practices. \"Forbes\" cites cybercrime as a persistent and growing threat to Chinese consumers.\n\nIn 2016 the estimated value lost through fraud in the UK was £193 billion a year.\n\nIn January 2018 the Financial Times reported that the value of UK fraud hit a 15-year high of £2.11bn in 2017 according to a study. The article said that the accountancy firm BDO examined reported fraud cases worth more than £50,000 and found that the total number rose to 577 in 2017, compared with 212 in 2003. The study found that the average amount stolen in each incident rose to £3.66m, up from £1.5m in 2003.\n\nAs at November 2017 Fraud is the most common criminal offence in the UK according to a study by Crowe Clark Whitehill, Experian and the Centre for Counter Fraud Studies. The study suggests the UK loses over £190 billion per year to fraud. £190 billion is more than 9% of the UK’s projected GDP for 2017 ($2,496 (£2,080) billion according to Statistics Times). The estimate for fraud in the UK figure is more than the entire GDP of countries such as Romania, Qatar and Hungary.\n\nAccording to another review by the UK anti-fraud charity Fraud Advisory Panel (FAP), business fraud accounted for £144bn, while fraud against individuals was estimated at £9.7bn. The FAP has been particularly critical of the support available from the police to victims of fraud in the UK outside of London. Although victims of fraud are generally referred to the UK's national fraud and cyber crime reporting centre, Action Fraud, the FAP found that there was \"little chance\" that these crime reports would be followed up with any kind of substantive law enforcement action by UK authorities, according to the report.\n\nIn July 2016 it was reported that fraudulent activity levels in the UK increased in the 10 years to 2016 from £52 billion to £193bn. This figure would be a conservative estimate, since as the former commissioner of the City of London Police, Adrian Leppard, has said, only 1 in 12 such crimes are actually reported. Donald Toon, director of the NCA's economic crime command, stated in July 2016: \"The annual losses to the UK from fraud are estimated to be more than £190bn\". Figures released in October 2015 from the Crime Survey of England and Wales found that there had been 5.1 million incidents of fraud in England and Wales in the previous year, affecting an estimated one in 12 adults and making it the most common form of crime.\n\nAlso in July 2016, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) stated \"Almost six million fraud and cyber crimes were committed last year in England and Wales and estimated there were two million computer misuse offences and 3.8 million fraud offences in the 12 months to the end of March 2016.\" Fraud affects one in ten people in the UK. According to the ONS most frauds relate to bank account fraud. These figures are separate from the headline estimate that another 6.3 million crimes (distinct from frauds) were perpetrated in the UK against adults in the year to March 2016.\n\nFraud was not included in a \"Crime Harm Index\" published by the Office for National Statistics in 2016. Michael Levi, professor of criminology at Cardiff University, remarked in August 2016 that it was ‘deeply regrettable’ fraud is being left out of the first index despite being the most common crime reported to police in the UK. Levi said ‘If you’ve got some categories that are excluded, they are automatically left out of the police’s priorities.’. The Chief of the National Audit Office (NAO), Sir Anyas Morse has also said “For too long, as a low-value but high-volume crime, online fraud has been overlooked by government, law enforcement and industry. It is now the most commonly experienced crime in England and Wales and demands an urgent response.”\n\nSince 2007, fraud in England and Wales and Northern Ireland has been covered by the Fraud Act 2006. The Act was given Royal Assent on 8 November 2006, and came into effect on 15 January 2007.\n\nThe Act gives a statutory definition of the criminal offence of fraud, defining it in three classes—fraud by false representation, fraud by failing to disclose information, and fraud by abuse of position. It provides that a person found guilty of fraud is liable to a fine or imprisonment for up to twelve months on summary conviction (six months in Northern Ireland), or a fine or imprisonment for up to ten years on conviction on indictment. This Act largely replaces the laws relating to obtaining property by deception, obtaining a pecuniary advantage and other offences that were created under the Theft Act 1978.\n\nIn Scots law, fraud is covered under the common law and a number of statutory offences. The main fraud offences are common law fraud, uttering, embezzlement and statutory frauds. The Fraud Act 2006 does not apply in Scotland.\n\nThe Serious Fraud Office (United Kingdom) is an arm of the Government of the United Kingdom, accountable to the Attorney-General.\n\nThe National Fraud Authority (NFA) was, until 2014, a government agency co-ordinating the counter-fraud response in the UK.\n\nCifas is a British fraud prevention service, a not-for-profit membership organisation for all sectors that enables organisations to share and access fraud data using their databases. Cifas is dedicated to the prevention of fraud, including internal fraud by staff, and the identification of financial and related crime.\n\nThe typical organization loses five percent of its annual revenue to fraud, with a median loss of $160,000. Frauds committed by owners and executives were more than nine times as costly as employee fraud. The industries most commonly affected are banking, manufacturing, and government.\n\nThe falsification of documents, forgery or counterfeiting are types of fraud. The theft of one's personal information, like Social Security number, or identity is type of fraud. \nFraud can be committed through many media, including mail, wire, phone, and the Internet (computer crime and Internet fraud). International dimensions of the web and ease with which users can hide their location, the difficulty of checking identity and legitimacy online, and the simplicity with which hackers can divert browsers to dishonest sites and steal credit card details have all contributed to the very rapid growth of Internet fraud. In some countries, tax fraud is also prosecuted under false billing or tax forgery. There have also been fraudulent \"discoveries\", e.g., in science, to gain prestige rather than immediate monetary gain.\n\nBeyond laws that aim at prevention of fraud, there are also governmental and non-governmental organizations that aim to fight fraud. Between 1911 and 1933, 47 states adopted the so-called Blue Sky Laws status.\nThese laws were enacted and enforced at the state level and regulated the offering and sale of securities to protect the public from fraud. Though the specific provisions of these laws varied among states, they all required the registration of all securities offerings and sales, as well as of every U.S. stockbroker and brokerage firm. However, these Blue Sky laws were generally found to be ineffective. To increase public trust in the capital markets the President of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, established the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The main reason for the creation of the SEC was to regulate the stock market and prevent corporate abuses relating to the offering and sale of securities and corporate reporting. The SEC was given the power to license and regulate stock exchanges, the companies whose securities traded on them, and the brokers and dealers who conducted the trading.\n\nFor detection of fraudulent activities on the large scale, massive use of (online) data analysis is required, in particular predictive analytics or forensic analytics. Forensic analytics is the use of electronic data to reconstruct or detect financial fraud. The steps in the process are data collection, data preparation, data analysis, and the preparation of a report and possibly a presentation of the results. Using computer-based analytic methods Nigrini's wider goal is the detection of fraud, errors, anomalies, inefficiencies, and biases which refer to people gravitating to certain dollar amounts to get past internal control thresholds.\n\nThe analytic tests usually start with high-level data overview tests to spot highly significant irregularities. In a recent purchasing card application these tests identified a purchasing card transaction for 3,000,000 Costa Rica Colons. This was neither a fraud nor an error, but it was a highly unusual amount for a purchasing card transaction. These high-level tests include tests related to Benford's Law and possibly also those statistics known as descriptive statistics. These high-tests are always followed by more focused tests to look for small samples of highly irregular transactions. The familiar methods of correlation and time-series analysis can also be used to detect fraud and other irregularities. Forensic analytics also includes the use of a fraud risk-scoring model to identify high risk forensic units (customers, employees, locations, insurance claims and so on). Forensic analytics also includes suggested tests to identify financial statement irregularities, but the general rule is that analytic methods alone are not too successful at detecting financial statement fraud.\n\n\nApart from fraud, there are several related categories of intentional deceptions that may or may not include the elements of personal gain or damage to another individual:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25190741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190741", "title": "Gadhimai festival", "text": "Gadhimai festival\n\nGadhimai festival was a sacrificial ceremony that was held every 5 years at the Gadhimai Temple of Bariyarpur, in Bara District, about south of the capital Kathmandu, and about east of headquarter of Bara district kalaiya city, in the southern Nepal, near the Indo-Nepal border, adjacent to Bihar. It was primarily celebrated by the Madheshi and Bihari people. The event involves the large-scale sacrificial slaughter of animals including water buffaloes, pigs, goats, chickens, and pigeons – with the goal of pleasing Gadhimai, the goddess of power. People also offer coconuts, sweets, red colour clothes, etc.\n\nIt is estimated that 50,000 animals were sacrificed during the Gadhimai festival of 2009. In 2015, it was erroneously reported that Nepal's temple trust planned to cancel all future animal sacrifice at the festival.\n\nAbout 4 million people participate in the festival. Participants believe that animal sacrifices to the Hindu goddess Gadhimai will end evil and bring prosperity.\n\nA month before the ritual in 2009, the Madheshi politicians realized there would be a \"severe shortage\" of goats for the ritual sacrifice, as well as for the consumption of goat meat during the festival. They began a radio campaign urging farmers to sell their animals.\n\nThe festival started in the first week of November 2009 and ended in the first week of December (up to makar sankranti), the fair has a custom of animal sacrifice that occurred on November 24 and 25 in the year 2009, with the temple's head priest performing ritual sacrifice called \"Saptabali\", which includes the sacrifice of white mice, pigeons, roosters, ducks, swine and male water buffaloes. More than 20,000 buffaloes were sacrificed on the first day. It is estimated that 250,000 animals were sacrificed during the Gadhimai festival of 2009. The ritual killings were performed by more than 200 men in a concrete slaughterhouse near the temple.\n\nThe festival has prompted numerous protests by animal rights activists and Nepalese Hindus from Hill region. In 2009, activists made several attempts to stop the ritual, including Brigitte Bardot and Maneka Gandhi, who wrote to the Nepalese government asking them to stop the killings. A government official commented that they would not \"interfere in the centuries-old tradition of the Madheshi people.\" \n\nRam Bahadur Bomjon, claimed by some of his supporters to be the reincarnation of the Buddha, said that he would attempt to stop the sacrifice at the festival, preaching non-violence and offering a blessing at the place. His promise prompted the government to send additional forces to prevent any incident.\n\nAfter the festival, the meat, bones and hides of the animals are sold to companies in India and Nepal. \n\nIn October 2014, Gauri Maulekhi (People for Animals Uttarakhand (PFA) trustee and Humane Society International (HSI) consultant) filed a petition against the illegal transportation of animals from India to Nepal for slaughter. After this, the Supreme Court of India passed an interim order directing the Government of India to prevent animals being illegally transported across the border for sacrifice at Gadhimai. The court also asked animal protection groups and others to devise an action plan to ensure the court order is implemented.\n\nNG Jayasimha, HSI India's MD, visited Nepal to ensure the ban is being adhered to. In an interview to the Times of India he said, \"I am very pleased that we were able to sit down with the Nepali politicians, to speak up for the hundreds of thousands of innocent animals who are condemned to an utterly unjustified beheading at Gadhimai. We also spoke directly to the Gadhimai temple and the local magistrate, so they can be in no doubt of the overwhelming call for compassion. We sincerely hope that they will act to stop this unnecessary bloodshed\".\n\nOn July 28, 2015 this festival has been banned by HSI India.</ref>\n\nThe Indian Ministry of Home Affairs has directed the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to monitor and make sure no animals get to Nepal for the festival.\n\nNepal's temple trust announced the cancellation of all future animal sacrifice at the country's Gadhimai festival in July 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "22846962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22846962", "title": "Gwallter Mechain", "text": "Gwallter Mechain\n\nWalter Davies (15 July 1761 – 5 December 1849), commonly known by his bardic name Gwallter Mechain (\"Walter of Mechain\"), was a Welsh poet, editor, translator, antiquary and Anglican clergyman.\n\nDavies was born at Y Wern, near Tomen y Castell, Llanfechain, Montgomeryshire. He was educated at the village school and was to become a cooper, but with the help of the poet Owain Myfyr went to All Souls College, Oxford, graduating in 1795. He took Holy Orders and became a Church of England curate in the parish of Meifod, Montgomeryshire, moving in 1799 to Ysbyty Ifan, Denbighshire where he met and married his wife Mary. He went on to study at Trinity College, Cambridge, gaining his MA in 1803. He was awarded the living of Llanwyddelan and became vicar of Manafon in Montgomeryshire where he remained for 30 years and did most of his literary work.\n\nIn 1797 he had begun a survey of the agriculture and economy of North Wales, which was published in two volumes in 1810 and 1813. This was followed in 1815 by a report on South Wales in collaboration with Iolo Morganwg (Edward Williams). He contributed to Samuel Lewis's \"Topographical Dictionary of Wales\" (1833).\n\nIn 1837, he moved to the parish of Llanrhaeadr-ym-Mochnant, where he died in 1849 and lies buried in the parish churchyard.\n\nDavies was closely associated with the London Welsh, especially the Gwyneddigion Society, and the revival of the Cymmrodorion Society in 1820. He was a keen supporter of eisteddfodau, where he won many prizes, and he played an important role in establishing provincial eisteddfodic societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "53213191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53213191", "title": "International Short Film Festival Cine a la Calle", "text": "International Short Film Festival Cine a la Calle\n\nThe International Short Film Festival Cine a la Calle (Spanish: Festival Internacional de Cortometrajes Cine a la Calle or FICICA) is a film festival dedicated to short films. Organized by the Foundation Cine a la Calle in Barranquilla, Colombia, it takes place every year by early May, featuring around 200 short films from more than 30 countries. It is considered to be the pioneer of its kind in Colombia and one of the most influential in Latin America. It boasts around 15000 attendees annually, since 2001.\n"}
{"id": "57835538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57835538", "title": "Lake Christine Fire", "text": "Lake Christine Fire\n\nThe Lake Christine Fire was a wildfire which burned near Basalt and Carbondale, Colorado, United States, in Eagle County. The Lake Christine Fire started on July 3, 2018 and was later downgraded to a Burned Area Response on September 4, 2018. The fire burned a total of 12,588 acres. 90% contained.\n\nThe fire started at around 6 PM on July 3, 2018, near the Basalt Shooting Range. It was believed to have been started by Richard Karl Miller, 23, and Allison Sarah Marcus, 22, who were using illegal tracer rounds at the Shooting Range during Stage 2 fire restrictions in Eagle County. They both face 4th degree arson charges. The shooting range had not been closed down by Colorado Parks and Wildlife (who operates the shooting range) before the fire started, despite the fire restrictions.\n\nThe fire destroyed three homes on and along the mountside which the fire burned.\n\nOn September 4, 2018, the fire was downgraded to a Burned Area Response.\n\nUpper Cattle Creek in the southbound direction and Kelly Lake Road were closed.\n\n500 homes were evacuated under mandatory evacuations in Missouri Heights, the El Jebel Mobile Home Park and on other parts of Basalt Mountain. These evacuations were later lifted.\n\nTwo evacuation centers were open, one being at Basalt High School in Basalt which closed on July 9. The other at Roaring Fork High School in Carbondale was closed on July 7.\n\nOn July 20, 2018 the fire grew yet again, causing pre evacuation orders to be put in place for Cedar Dr, Toner Creek, Seven Castles and Taylor Rd. These evacuations were later lifted.\n"}
{"id": "54253929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54253929", "title": "Law &amp; Order True Crime", "text": "Law &amp; Order True Crime\n\nLaw & Order True Crime is an American true crime anthology series that premiered on September 26, 2017 on NBC. The series was ordered by NBC on July 15, 2016, and is part of the \"Law & Order\" franchise. Created by René Balcer, the eight-episode first season, titled Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders, is a dramatization of the trial of Lyle and Erik Menendez, who were convicted in 1996 for the murder of their parents, José and Kitty Menendez. The series is currently on hiatus.\n\n\n\nFilming for the series began on June 26, 2017 for an eight-episode first season. In April 2016, Dick Wolf and NBC announced they were working on the series, a first season being based on the Mendendez brothers murder case. A second season is yet to be confirmed, but Dick Wolf mentioned he has plenty of ideas for the show and a possible storyline if there is a second season. “This is unique for me, after 27 years of Law & Order,” Dick Wolf told TV critics at TCA in an interview. “This is taken from the headlines; we‘ve made some great shows ripped from the headlines, but this is on a different level.” An idea for a second season storyline includes the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995. \"Just before the [Television Critics Association summer press tour], I had mentioned to him the Tim McVeigh case, and his eyes lit up,\" Rene Balcer says of Wolf's reaction. \"Because Dick and I were together, we were in the same office when the bomb went off in Oklahoma.\"\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the season has an approval rating of 64% based on 34 reviews, with an average rating of 6.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Law & Order: True Crime: The Menendez Murders\" benefits from a standout performance from Edie Falco that proves captivating enough to compensate for a staid approach to potentially drama-rich material.\" On Metacritic, the season has a weighted average score of 57 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". In his series of reviews of each episode, Austin Considine of the New York Times wrote that this mini-series succeeded in bringing something new and compelling to the well-known Menendez case.\n\n"}
{"id": "11979210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11979210", "title": "Liberal Revolution of 1820", "text": "Liberal Revolution of 1820\n\nThe Liberal Revolution of 1820 () was a Portuguese political revolution that erupted in 1820. It began with a military insurrection in the city of Porto, in northern Portugal, that quickly and peacefully spread to the rest of the country. The Revolution resulted in the return in 1821 of the Portuguese Court to Portugal from Brazil, where it had fled during the Peninsular War, and initiated a constitutional period in which the 1822 Constitution was ratified and implemented. The movement's liberal ideas had an important influence on Portuguese society and political organization in the nineteenth century.\n\nFrom 1807 to 1811 Napoleonic French forces invaded Portugal three times. As a result, the Portuguese royal family was transferred to the Portuguese colony of Brazil, where it remained until 1821. From Brazil, the Portuguese king João VI ruled his transcontinental empire for thirteen years.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the French forces in 1814, Portugal experienced a prolonged period of political turmoil, in which many sought greater self-rule for the Portuguese people. Eventually this unrest put an end to the King's long stay in Brazil, when his return to Portugal was demanded by the revolutionaries.\n\nEven though the Portuguese had participated in the defeat of the French, the country found itself virtually a colony of Brazil or British protectorate. The officers of the Portuguese Army resented British control of the Portuguese armed forces. In addition the 1808 \"Decree of the Opening of Ports to Friendly Nations\", practically brought an end to the so-called \"colonial pact\" (\"See, Mercantilism\"), and the two \"Treaties of 1810\", which guaranteed favored status to British products entering Portugal, decimated the commerce of cities like Porto and Lisbon and set off a deep economic crisis which affected its bourgeoisie. The city of Porto, with a strong, dynamic bourgeoisie and with liberal tradition, was the place where the Liberal Revolution began.\n\nAfter Napoleon's definite defeat in 1815, a clandestine Supreme Regenerative Council of Portugal and the Algarve was formed in Lisbon by army officers and freemasons, headed by General Gomes Freire de Andrade—Grand Master of the Grande Oriente Lusitano and former general under Napoleon until his defeat in 1814—with the objective to end British control of the country and to promote \"the salvation and independence\" of the \"pátria\". In its brief existence the movement attempted to introduce liberalism in Portugal, although it ultimately failed to do so. In 1817 three masons, João de Sá Pereira Soares, Morais Sarmento and José Andrade Corvo, denounced the movement to the authorities, who arrested many suspects, including Freire de Andrade, who was charged with conspiracy against John VI, represented in continental Portugal by a regency, then overseen by the British military authority headed by William Carr Beresford.\n\nIn October 1817, the Regency found the twelve of the accused guilty of treason against the nation and sentenced them to death by hanging. Beresford intended to suspend the sentence until it was confirmed by John VI, but the Regency, judging that such a move was a slight to its authority, ordered their immediate execution, which took place on 18 October at Campo do Santana (today, Campo dos Mártires da Pátria, \"Field of the Martyrs of the Fatherland\"). Freire de Andrade was executed on the same day at the São Julião da Barra Fort. The executions sparked protests against Beresford and the Regency and intensified anti-British feeling in the country.\n\nA couple of years after the executions, Beresford left for Brazil to ask the King for more resources and powers to suppress the lingering presence of what he called \"Jacobinism,\" which were granted to him. In his absence, the Revolution of Porto broke out in 1820, and upon his arrival from Brazil, he was forbidden to disembark in Lisbon.\n\nInfluenced by the concurrent Trienio Liberal Revolution in Spain of 1 January 1820, a liberal revolution started in Porto, quickly spreading without resistance to several other Portuguese cities and towns, culminating with the revolt of Lisbon. The revolutionaries demanded the immediate return of the royal court to continental Portugal in order to \"restore the metropolitan dignity.\" In fact, the liberal revolution of 1820 not only forced the return of the King but also demanded a constitutional monarchy to be set up in Portugal. The revolutionaries also sought to restore Portuguese exclusivity in the trade with Brazil, reverting Brazil to the status of a colony, officially to be reduced to a \"Principality of Brazil,\" instead of the Kingdom of Brazil, which it had been for the past five years. The Brazilian kingdom had legally been an equal, constituent part of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves. The revolutionaries organized the election of a constitutional assembly which debated the nature of the future government. The elections resulted in deputies were primarily from the professions (lawyers, professors) and not from the merchants who had spearheaded the revolution. Professionals now took the lead in the revolution. The constitution that was approved in 1822 was closely modeled on the Spanish Constitution of 1812.\n\nAfter John VI returned to Portugal in 1821, his heir-apparent, Pedro, became regent of the Kingdom of Brazil. Following a series of political events and disputes, Brazil declared its independence from Portugal on 7 September 1822. On 12 October 1822, Pedro was acclaimed as the first Emperor of Brazil. He was crowned on 1 December 1822. Portugal recognized Brazil's sovereignty in 1825.\n\nIn 1823, the first revolt against the constitutional order was organized by Prince Miguel and Brigadier João Carlos Saldanha, which managed to close the parliament and to convince King João VI to recall Beresford as an advisor. In 1826 João VI died with no clear heir, further destabilizing the nation. Upon seizing the throne, Miguel led another revolt against the constitutional government, triggering six years of civil wars, which pitted him against his brother, now Pedro IV of Portugal, who headed the liberal faction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14754753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14754753", "title": "List of directorial debuts", "text": "List of directorial debuts\n\nThis is a list of film directorial debuts in chronological order. The films and dates referred to are a director's first commercial cinematic release.\n\nNotes:\n\n♦ Indicates where a director has created other earlier works for television\n\n\n† Indicates when a director's earlier work has not been released in cinemas, for example film school productions, or short films or music videos.\n\nPlease refer to individual entries for further detail.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6423719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6423719", "title": "Lovemobile", "text": "Lovemobile\n\nA lovemobile is a popular name for a float. These lovemobiles are trucks with flatbed carrying sound equipment, a DJ or other live act, dancers and props, which is used as a central element at technoparades. The setup and decoration of a lovemobile takes place in the days or weeks preceding the event. The lovemobile is driven at walking pace through a crowd of ravers as they dance to music powered by the truck's electrical system.\n\n"}
{"id": "802030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802030", "title": "Madrigal comedy", "text": "Madrigal comedy\n\nMadrigal comedy is a term for a kind of entertainment music of the late 16th century in Italy, in which groups of related, generally \"a cappella\" madrigals were sung consecutively, generally telling a story, and sometimes having a loose dramatic plot. It is an important element in the origins of opera. The term is of 20th-century origin, popularised by Alfred Einstein.\n\nThe first collection of madrigals, sung as a set and telling a coherent (and highly comic) story, was \"Il cicalamento delle donne al bucato\" (the gossip of wives in the laundry), by Alessandro Striggio, which was written in 1567. Later madrigal comedies are sometimes divided into acts, including a prologue, and while not \"acted\" in the sense of an opera, they may have been performed on stage with elaborate painted backdrops (for example, there is an existing woodcut showing the prologue of Orazio Vecchi's \"L'Amfiparnaso\" (1597): a singer is evidently in costume in a backdrop showing a city street). Vecchi's direction in the score, however, is for the singers not to act, but for the audience to fill in the action internally, using their imagination. He speaks to the audience in the prologue to the work: \"the spectacle I speak of is to be seen in your mind; it enters not through your eyes, but through your ears: instead of looking, listen, and be silent.\"\n\nThe form was popular especially in the 1590s and few years after 1600, only in Italy, but seems to have fallen out of favor with the advent of opera right at 1600, although \"a cappella\" madrigals were also disappearing at this time as well. The music of madrigal comedies is light, and the subject matter was invariably comic.\n\nPrincipal composers of madrigal comedy included Alessandro Striggio, Adriano Banchieri, Giovanni Croce, and Orazio Vecchi.\n\n"}
{"id": "25676052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25676052", "title": "Mattu Pongal", "text": "Mattu Pongal\n\nMaattu Pongal () is the third day of the four-day Pongal festival. According to the Gregorian calendar it is normally celebrated on January 15 but sometimes it is celebrated on January 16. In the Tamil calendar, this corresponds to the second day of the Tamil month Thai.\n\nThough the name of the festival is specific to Tamil Nadu, it is also celebrated in other southern Indian states such as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Makar Sankranti is a festival that marks the start of northern declination (called Uttarayana in Sanskrit) of the Sun from the Zodiaca sign of Sagittarius (Sanskrit name: Dhanurmas) to Capricorn (Sanskrit: Makara), which according to Hindu calendar usually falls on 14 January.\n\nIn Tamil, the word “Mattu” means bull and this day of Pongal is for celebration of the cattle, particularly bulls that play a vital role by working hard to help the farmers to raise crops on their fields, falls on the following day, 15 January. The festival is also observed by ethnic Tamil population of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe festival day is also a special occasion when the landlord and the peasant, rich and poor, old and young all dine together in a spirit of bonhomie without any restraint of caste and creed. The festival is thus an occasion when the fresh harvests from the fields are shared in the form of food and sweets not only with the community but also with animals and birds. It also represents the change of season.\n\nAn important village sport, called the Jallikattu or Manji Virattu, an integral part of the Mattu Pongal festival is observed with enthusiasm and expectations in the villages of Tamil Nadu. This sport is held generally in the evening of the Mattu Pongal day. In the past, it was the day when fierce bulls were chased by young youths of the village to retrieve the money that was tied to the horns of the bulls. In some villages it was held one day after the Mattu Pongal day, on the Kannum Pongal day.\n\nMattu Pongal is made up of two words; 'Mattu' in Tamil means \"bull\". Pongal, also in Tamil Language, literally means \"boiled rice\" (a rice and lentil dish) but metaphorically means prosperity. The Pongal festival also represents celebration of \"fertility and renewal\" and is observed either for three days or four-days, after the end of the monsoon season and rice (paddy) crop is harvested.\n\nAccording to a legend linked to Mattu Pongal, god Shiva sent his bull Nandi (mount of Shiva and his gate keeper) from heaven to the earth to give his message to people that they should have an oil bath every day and eat once a month. Instead, Nandi wrongly advised people to take an oil bath once a month and eat every day. Shiva was annoyed with this advice related to food and in fit of rage, banished Nandi to permanently live on earth and help the farmers to produce the extra food crops needed for people to eat every day.\n\nObservance of Mattu Pongal is part of the Pongal festival. Pongal is generally a four-day festival of fervent celebrations (during 2010, it will be held from 13 to 16 January) marking the officially declared Tamil New Year day, the beginning of the month of \"Thai\" starting with 14 January every year, as per Tamil Calendar. The first day is called \"Bhogi\" – the last day of Dhanurmas (month of Sagittarius), a preparatory day before the Pongal and is in honour of god Indra, the king of heaven. On this day it is spring cleaning, as people decorate their homes, buy new vessels and burn old and unwanted items. Pongal, the main festival, also called the \"Perum Pongal\" (big festival), is the second day when the Sun is worshipped signifying the first day of the month of Makara or Capricornus. It is celebrated as Makara Sankranti or simply \"Sankranti\" in the rest of the country. This is followed by the 'Mattu Pongal' celebration on the third day when bulls, cows and other farm animals are worshipped. The fourth day is the 'Kannum Pongal' or 'Kanru Pongal' (Calf Pongal) festival when calves are fed. However, the name 'Kannum' also denotes that on this day people visit elders in the villages or towns seeking their blessings.\n\nOn each of the four days festival, Kolam or threshold drawings are drawn with coloured rice powder or chalk powder, in the front yard of the houses, after due washing of the yard. On the first day images of rice are drawn, on the second day good luck signs of Sun are drawn and the Mattu Pongal day Kolam depicts cows also.\n\nOn all four days, Shiva's consort Parvati and their son Ganesha are worshipped and the Pongal – the rice preparation – is offered to them in the puja and thereafter to the cattle. The neck of the pot in which Pongal rice is prepared is tied with fresh turmeric leaves and pieces of sugarcane. Ingredients cooked in the pot consist of rice, green gram and milk. While cooking, the overflow of milk is particularly observed as it has significance to the householder. If the milk over flows on the right side of the pot, it is considered an auspicious augury. Sometimes, an image of Ganesha is crafted with cow-dung. This crafted Ganesha is then bedecked with arugampul (kind of grass), thumbai (white flowers) and avaram (yellow flowers). The pongal cooked in mud pots are placed on the floor where a Kolam is drawn and skirted with red sand. Then, pongal-rice along with turmeric, ginger, sugar cane, yellow garlands and a stick that is used to drive the bulls are also placed as offering to Ganesha.\n\nIn some practices, Pongal is celebrated for three days with Kannum Pongal or Kannu Pongal observed concurrently with the Mattu Pongal. Sisters symbolically offer small part of the rice dishes prepared for the festival or coloured balls of cooked rice to crows and other birds such as sparrows, as a special prayer for the well being of their brothers. While making this offering to crows, they call out with words in Tamil, ‘Kakai Ku Pudi, Kuruvi Ku Pudi’, which literally means “this rice ball is for the crow, this rice ball is for the sparrow.” \n\nOn the Mattu Pongal day, cattle are washed, their horns painted and decorated with shining metal caps. Multi-coloured beads, tinkling bells, sheaves of corn and flower garlands are tied around their necks. Turmeric and kumkum are also devotionally put on the foreheads of the cattle. The cow–keepers dressed in their regale sprinkle the cattle with saffron water with mango leaves with prayers to protect them from evil and shout the popular slogan of the festival, “Pongal! Pongal!”. This prayer is a special wish for the progressive prosperity and growth of the cattle population, with the blessings of Indra and Krishna (Gopala), who was a cowherd. Devotees pay their respect to cows by bending down, like praying in a temple, and touching their feet and foreheads, followed by an aarti (showing camphor flame to the object of praise) and offering the cattle prasad (food offering, in this case is called Sakkar Pongal – a delicacy cooked of rice, moong dal (green gram) with jaggery and dry fruits). The cattle are taken in a procession, attended by bands of music, through the village streets to a public space in the village. The resounding of their bells attracts the villagers as the young men race each other's cattle. Then the entire atmosphere becomes festive and full of fun and revelry. Big commotion is seen when the game \"Jallikattu\" or \"Manji Virattu\" starts in which groups of young men chase the running bulls.\n\nJallikattu (\"bull embracing\") – initially – was a bull taming village sport held in the after noon or evening of the Mattu Pongal celebrations. This sport was popular in the southern part of Tamil Nadu, particularly in Madurai, Tiruchirapalli and Tanjavur. On this day, the bulls, which were worshipped and fed during the day, their horns were tied with bundles of money in the form of coins or notes. The young boys chased such bulls, lassoed them and retrieved the money tied to the horn. If they failed the bulls ran away and were seen only the next morning. But this was a milder form of the sport which was seen in most villages in Tamil Nadu 500 years back. This traditional sport changed during the Nayaka rule in Tamil Nadu From a harmless bull-chasing sport it got transformed into the present form of Jallikattu, which is a bloodier bull-wrestling sport that takes place now in villages throughout Tamil Nadu, to celebrate Mattu Pongal. Jallikattu, as an ancient sport of Tamil Nadu, has been corroborated from rock paintings of 'bull chasing sport' discovered on massive rock surfaces at Karikkiyur in Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu, which are dated between 2,000 B.C. and 1,500 B.C.\n\nThe regular bull embrace that are held now are in a well organised manner by bull owners and the youthful village men. In the present form, prizes are offered to the bull fighters and the bull owners. The bull fight is held, at a central location in the village where people assemble in large numbers to witness the fight. It is held in an enclosure with a marker. The bulls that are specially trained for this occasion are then led from the pen to the ring to fight, one by one, when young boys of the village grab the bull by its horn or neck or tail and try to hold on to it. If the boys are thrown off or hurt seriously within the ring no prize is given to them. If they hold on or even thrown off but are not in any way injured then the prize is given to them. If the contesting young men hold on to the bull from the marker entrance of the pen then they are given prizes. If the bulls win, then the prizes go to the bull owners. It is said that in some villages as many as 600 bulls, 600 participants and 10,000 spectators participate. The fight between man and the bull is quite fierce and many times bloody. It is considered a heroic act on the part of the young men. The young participants show off their heroism by displaying the number of cuts they have suffered during such fights. This type of fight is said to be akin to the bull fights of Spain. However, in this case, the fight is to win prizes by holding on to the bulls’ neck or horn. The bull is never killed, however many boys get killed by goring by the bull since they fight with their bare hands and with confidence of their strength. In many instances, the audiences watching the fight have also been injured by the ferocious bulls. In recent years, there have been deaths of young boys during this festival, which has created a furore among the public. In one year, there was a report of death of as many as 20 young men, apart from mauling and trampling of spectators.\n\nAs result of deaths of young men, the Supreme Court was approached to stop this festival, as it was considered inhuman and dangerous. The plea made was that the Jallikattu was \"backward, dangerous, a violation of animals’ rights and detrimental to India's modernizing image.\" The stoppage of the festival, however, resulted in protests by the villagers who wanted this sport to continue. Finally, on assurances given by the State government that enough security and safety arrangements would be provided at all such sports locations in the villages, Jallikattu has been permitted to be observed as part of the Mattu Pongal festival. As a result of court's intervention, doctors are ready at call to attend to injured young men or boys. A two tier high bamboo fencing is also erected between the bull ring and the audience who come to witness the fight in large numbers.\n\nStudies on similarities in the holding of Hindu seasonal festivals, particularly in South India, which are termed pre-historic and the Dravidian or Pre-Aryan period with those of Christianity in Europe, indicate that such similarities may not be coincidental. The winter solstice is the date of Sun entering Capricorn in both the traditions that coincides with Makara Sankranti (called Uttarayana meaning the return of the luminary to the northern region), the first day of the new year starting with the month Magha according to the Hindu Tamil calendar. This corresponds to 21 December per Christian date and is called the sign of the Goat, while the same happens in mid-January according to Hindu calendar. Makara Sankranti is celebrated among the Hindus for three days, with Mattu Pongal (feast of cattle) held the day after Sun entering Capricorn. (There is a slight variation in dates followed for the festival, varying from year to year, but the essence of observing Makara Sankranti is the same among Hindus). Worship of cattle by Hindus during Mattu Pongal has a striking similarity with the Catholic function held on 17 January in Rome as Saint Anthony day, when cattle (the cows, horses, goats, asses and so forth) are blessed. Wilson has allegorically given an analogy:\n\nThe time of the year, the decorating of the cattle, the sprinkling of them with water, and the very purport of the blessing, that they may be exempt from evils, are so decidedly Indian, that could a Dravira Brahmin be set down of a sudden in the Piazza, and when he asked what ceremony he witnessed, there can be no doubt of his answer; he would at once declare they were celebrating the Pongal.\n"}
{"id": "584028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584028", "title": "Michael Everson", "text": "Michael Everson\n\nMichael Everson (born January 9, 1963) is an American and Irish linguist, script encoder, typesetter, font designer, and publisher. He runs a publishing company called Evertype, through which he has published over a hundred books since 2006.\n\nHis central area of expertise is with writing systems of the world, specifically in the representation of these systems in formats for computer and digital media. In 2003 Rick McGowan said he was \"probably the world's leading expert in the computer encoding of scripts\" for his work to add a wide variety of scripts and characters to the Universal Character Set. Since 1993, he has written over two hundred proposals which have added thousands of characters to ISO/IEC 10646 and The Unicode Standard.\n\nEverson was born in Norristown, Pennsylvania, and moved to Tucson, Arizona, at the age of 12. His interest in the works of J. R. R. Tolkien led him to study Old English and then other Germanic languages. He read German, Spanish, and French for his B.A. at the University of Arizona (1985), and the History of Religions and Indo-European linguistics for his M.A. at the University of California, Los Angeles (1988).\n\nIn 1989, a former professor, Dr. Marija Gimbutas, asked him to read a paper on Basque mythology at an Indo-Europeanist Conference held in Ireland; shortly thereafter he moved to Dublin, where he studied as a Fulbright Scholar in the Faculty of Celtic Studies, University College Dublin (1991). He became a naturalized Irish citizen in 2000, although he retains American citizenship. He currently lives in Dundee.\n\nEverson is active in supporting minority-language communities, especially in the fields of character encoding standardization and internationalization. In addition to being one of the primary contributing editors of the Unicode Standard, he is also a contributing editor to ISO/IEC 10646, registrar for ISO 15924, and subtag reviewer for BCP 47. He has contributed to the encoding of many scripts and characters in those standards, receiving the Unicode Bulldog Award in 2000 for his technical contributions to the development and promotion of the Unicode Standard. In 2004, Everson was appointed convenor of ISO TC46/WG3 (Conversion of Written Languages), which is responsible for transliteration standards.\n\nOn July 1, 2012, Everson was appointed to the Volapük Academy by the Cifal, Brian R. Bishop, for his work in Volapük publishing.\n\nEverson has been actively involved in the encoding of many scripts in the Unicode and ISO/IEC 10646 standards, including Avestan, Balinese, Bamum, Bassa Vah, Batak, Braille, Brāhmī, Buginese, Buhid, Unified Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics, Carian, Cham, Cherokee, Coptic, Cuneiform, Cypriot, Deseret, Duployan, Egyptian hieroglyphs, Elbasan, Ethiopic, Georgian, Glagolitic, Gothic, Hanunóo, Imperial Aramaic, Inscriptional Pahlavi, Inscriptional Parthian, Javanese, Kayah Li, Khmer, Lepcha, Limbu, Linear A, Linear B, Lycian, Lydian, Mandaic, Manichaean, Meitei Mayek, Mongolian, Myanmar, Nabataean, New Tai Lue, N'Ko, Ogham, Ol Chiki, Old Hungarian, Old Italic, Old North Arabian, Old Persian, Old South Arabian, Old Turkic, Osmanya, Palmyrene, Phaistos Disc, Phoenician, Rejang, Runic, Samaritan, Saurashtra, Shavian, Sinhala, Sundanese, Tagalog, Tagbanwa, Tai Le, Tai Tham, Thaana, Tibetan, Ugaritic, Vai, and Yi, as well as many characters belonging to the Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, and Arabic scripts.\n\nIn 1995 he designed the Unicode font, Everson Mono, a monospaced typeface with more than 4,800 characters. This font was the third Unicode-encoded font to contain a large number of characters from many character blocks, after Lucida Sans Unicode and Unihan font (both 1993). In 2007 he was commissioned by the International Association of Coptic Studies to create a standard free Unicode 5.1 font for Coptic, \"Antinoou\", using the Sahidic style.\n\nTogether with John Cowan, he is also responsible for the ConScript Unicode Registry, a project to coordinate the mapping of artificial scripts into the Unicode Private Use Area. Among the scripts \"encoded\" in the CSUR, Shavian and Deseret were eventually formally adopted into Unicode; two other conscripts under consideration are Tolkien's scripts of Tengwar and Cirth.\n\nEverson has also created locale and language information for many languages, from support for the Irish language and the other Celtic languages to the minority Languages of Finland. In 2000, together with Trond Trosterud, he co-authored Software localization into Nynorsk Norwegian, a report commissioned by the Norwegian Language Council. In 2003 he was commissioned by the United Nations Development Programme to prepare a report on the computer locale requirements for the major languages of Afghanistan (Pashto, Dari, and Uzbek), co-authored by Roozbeh Pournader, which was endorsed by the Ministry of Communications of the Afghan Transitional Islamic Administration. More recently, UNESCO's Initiative B@bel funded Everson's work to encode the N'Ko and Balinese scripts.\n\nIn 2007 he co-authored a proposal for a new standard written form of Cornish, called Kernowek Standard. Following the publication of the Standard Written Form in 2008, Everson and a group of other users examined the specification and implemented a set of modifications to it, publishing a formal specification in 2012.\n\nEverson has a particular interest in Gaelic typeface design, and does a considerable amount of work typesetting books in Irish, which he publishes through his publishing company, Evertype.\n\nAnother project consists of his publications of translations of \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" in many languages, amongst which are minority languages and constructed languages. Translations are available in Cornish, Esperanto, French, German, Hawaiian, Irish, Italian, Jèrriais, Latin, Lingua Franca Nova, Lingwa de planeta, Low German, Manx, Mennonite Low German, Borain Picard, Sambahsa, Scots, Shavian transliteration, Swedish, Ulster Scots and Welsh, and several other translations are being prepared.\n\n"}
{"id": "28566390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28566390", "title": "Milford Oyster Festival", "text": "Milford Oyster Festival\n\nMilford Oyster Festival, sometimes shortened to \"Oysterfest,\" is an annual cultural festival held on the third Saturday of August throughout the city of Milford, Connecticut. As a major tourist attraction, billed as the largest one-day festival in the New England region and listed among the top 10 annual events in Connecticut, the Oyster Festival draws over 50,000 attendees each year. It is planned by the non-profit organization Annual Milford Oyster Festival, inc. (AMOF), largely run by volunteers.\n\nThe festival hosts a wide variety of activities for all ages, including arts, crafts, music, sports, amusement rides, food, and oyster shucking.\n\nThe first Milford Oyster Festival was held on the Milford Green and Fowler Field on August 23, 1975. Major founders of the oysterfest include Diano Nytko, first chairperson of the Milford Chamber of Commerce, and Robert N. Cooke, for whom the Bob Cooke Skin Cancer Foundation was named.\n\nSince then the oyster festival has become firmly established as an annual Milford tradition, held rain or shine. In the past, the oysterfest was held over two days, but that proved to be too much a burden on the organizers.\n\nWhile initially established as an oyster festival, the presence of actual oysters gradually faded after some time and were absent for many years outside of the festival's name. In 2005, oysters returned to the festival, provided by the East Coast Shellfish Growers Association. They have been there ever since.\n\nStarting in 2009, Milford began requiring that the non-profit AMOF reimburse the city, which spends $30,000-50,000 to host the festival each year. As a result of this decision, AMOF could no longer allow other local non-profits to sell beer at the event, as it is a major source of income for many of the non-profits. This led Alderman Ben Blake to express concern that the festival may \"lose its local flavor\" as \"nonprofit groups [are driven] out of the Oyster Festival food court.\"\n\nEvery festival also includes a headliner band.\n\nMany local and regional businesses, non-profits, and governmental groups have sponsored the event, including NBC Universal, TD Bank, and Whole Foods Market.\n\nMoney raised by AMOF during the festival has been donated for charitable purposes. In 2010, the major fundraiser of the festival was for Gulf coast fishing communities, whose oyster industries were struggling after being shut down by the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill.\n\n\nOn the Friday evening before the oysterfest, there is a surrounding event called \"Oyster Eve,\" which includes activities such as dancing, dining, and a 90-minute cruise on a schooner around the Long Island Sound. Around 1,500 people came to downtown Milford for Oyster Eve in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, the Daniel Street nightclub began hosting what they dubbed the \"1st Annual Oyster Festival After Party\" on the evening after the main events close.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31369481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31369481", "title": "MotorSport Vision Formula Three Cup", "text": "MotorSport Vision Formula Three Cup\n\nThe Formula Three Cup is a national motor racing series that takes place primarily in the United Kingdom, with a small number of events in mainland Europe. It is a club racing series aimed towards amateur drivers and aspiring racers, and uses older generation single seater Formula Three cars to keep costs low. The F3 Cup has three classes covering cars built between 1981 and 2011. The series is organised by MotorSport Vision, and in 2015 it was the only Formula Three series in the United Kingdom.\n\nMotorSport Vision Racing, which is the racing division of MotorSport Vision, announced the launch of the MSV F3 Cup in 2011. It is the successor to the BRSCC run championships/series with the names BRSCC F3, Club F3 and ARP F3.\n\nFor 2012, the club obtained championship status and from then on became known as F3 Cup.\n\nTeams are allowed to use Formula Three chassis built after 1980 but before 2005. This allows teams to enter with cheaper equipment. The series uses a control tyre which all drivers must use. The tyres are supplied by Avon Tyres, whose parent company supply tyres to the British Formula 3 Championship. Engines will be 2 litre (2000cc) restricted engines also built between 1981 and 2005.\n\nDue to the mix in ages, and therefore competitiveness of cars, the championship runs three classes.\n\nFormula Three chassis built between 2008 and 2011 are eligible to enter the main championship from 2015.\n\n\nIn 2011, F3 Cup was run as a series, not as a championship. There was a prize for the most meritorious driver, which was deemed to be Aaron Steele. The MSA granted F3 Cup championship status for 2012 onwards.\n\nThe championship comprises eight rounds, each with two races. Each race weekend will comprise one 25 minute qualifying session and two 20 minute races.\n\nThe 2014 season features rounds held in England and Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "48473717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48473717", "title": "Okja", "text": "Okja\n\nOkja is a 2017 action-adventure film directed by Bong Joon-ho and written by Bong and Jon Ronson. The film stars an ensemble cast headed by South Korean child actress Ahn Seo-hyun, South Korean actors Ahn Seo-hyun, Byun Hee-bong, Yoon Je-moon, and Choi Woo-shik, and Hollywood actors Tilda Swinton in a dual role, Paul Dano, Steven Yeun, Lily Collins, Shirley Henderson, Daniel Henshall, Devon Bostick, Giancarlo Esposito, and Jake Gyllenhaal.\n\nThe film competed for the \"Palme d'Or\" in the main competition section at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival. It was released on Netflix on June 28, 2017.\n\nIn 2007, self-styled 'environmentalist' Lucy Mirando becomes CEO of the Mirando Corporation, succeeding her twin sister Nancy. She announces that they have been breeding a special kind of “super pig”. The twenty-six produced specimens are sent to farmers in different locations around the world, and ten years later, one of them will be crowned the winner of a competition to breed the best pig.\n\nIn 2017, a young girl named Mija lives in South Korea with her grandfather and their super pig, Okja. They are visited by Mirando spokesperson and zoologist Dr. Johnny Wilcox, who declares Okja the best super pig and announces they will take her to New York City. Mija's grandfather presents her with a gold pig and explains to her that he saved up money to buy the solid gold item to replace Okja when she was taken away. Devastated, Mija runs away to Seoul to find Okja, where she sees her as she is being loaded onto a truck. Mija chases down the truck but it is intercepted by the Animal Liberation Front (ALF). In the resulting chaos, Mija and Okja run away but are eventually saved by the ALF, led by Jay. Jay uses another ALF member, K, as a translator to tell Mija that they plan to put a recording device in Okja's ear and let her be re-captured by the Mirando corporation to show how they mistreat their animals. Mija tells them to return her to the mountains but K tells the group that Mija is in agreement with their plan. They abandon her, and Okja is recaptured.\n\nTo minimise the PR damage to the company, Lucy pays for Mija to come to New York to be reunited with her pig. Okja is taken to a laboratory where she is forcibly bred with another super pig and flesh is taken from her for a taste test. After the ALF sees the footage, K reveals that he lied to the rest of the group about Mija's support of the plan. Jay attacks K, and expels him from the ALF.\n\nIn New York City, Mija is forced to agree to the wishes of the Mirando corporation. Jay slips into her room and tells her that they plan to rescue Okja while on stage. A parade is put on by the Mirando Corporation. Okja, blinded and battered, does not recognize Mija and attacks. Jay tries to hurt Okja, but Mija prevents him, calming Okja down. A video of the mistreatment of Okja is screened by the ALF to the public, who quickly turn on the Mirando Corporation. Mija and the ALF attempt to escape with Okja but fail. Okja is recaptured and the ALF members are arrested, except for Mija and Jay who are rescued by K. Nancy, having returned to control the company, closes the lab, scraps all of Lucy's promotional marketing, and starts full-time operations at their slaughterhouse. \n\nJay and K take Mija to find Okja at the processing plant and find her being forced up a ramp leading into a slaughterhouse. Mija finds Okja as she is about to be killed and shows the Mirando employee a photograph of herself with a baby Okja. Nancy arrives and Mija offers the golden pig in exchange for Okja's life. Nancy agrees to the deal and has Jay and K arrested. As Mija and Okja are leave a pair of superpigs manages to push their newborn through the fence, and Okja hides it within her mouth to take it away.\n\nBack in the countryside, Mija resumes her life with her grandfather, Okja, and the new piglet.\n\nIn a post-credits scene, Jay is released from prison and gets on board a bus with K and the other members of the organization. With their newest member Kim Woo-shik, a former driver for Mirando Corporation, they plan to disrupt a major meeting involving all of the Mirando shareholders.\n\n\nIn October 2015, it was announced that director Bong Joon-ho's next film will feature a South Korean female lead and a cast of English-speaking supporting actors, with filming set in New York. On November 10, 2015 it was picked up by Netflix and Plan B Entertainment with a budget of $50 million, with production starting in late 2016 for release in 2017. Darius Khondji joined the film as cinematographer in February 2016.\n\nBong sought out Welsh author Jon Ronson to help with the script. Working with a rough draft of the story, Ronson helped develop the English-speaking characters.\n\nPrincipal photography began on April 22, 2016 in Seoul, South Korea. It moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada for more filming on July 31, 2016. Director Bong Joon-ho visited a real Colorado slaughterhouse to prepare for the film's own slaughterhouse sequence, an experience that converted Joon-ho and producer Dooho Choi into temporary vegans.\n\nJoon-ho has called Okja \"a very shy and introverted animal. It's a unique animal that we've not seen before.\"\n\n\"Okja\" had its world premiere at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival on May 18, 2017. During the first few minutes of its screening at its Cannes premiere, the film was met with boos mixed with some applause twice: once when the Netflix logo appeared on the screen and again during a technical glitch which projected the film in an incorrect aspect ratio for its first seven minutes. The festival later issued an apology to its filmmakers for projecting the film incorrectly. However, despite the initially negative audience response, the film received a four-minute standing ovation at its end.\n\nThe film was released on Netflix on June 28, 2017.\n\nSeveral independent theatres in South Korea screened the film to much success, with earnings totalling 2,271,855,400 KRW (2,128,019 USD) from 300,953 tickets sold.\n\nOn the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 86% based on 194 reviews, with a weighted average of 7.5/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Okja\" sees Bong Joon-ho continuing to create defiantly eclectic entertainment – and still hitting more than enough of his narrative targets in the midst of a tricky tonal juggling act.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 76 out of 100, based on 31 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nCritic A.O. Scott wrote, \"\"Okja\" is a miracle of imagination and technique, and Okja insists, with abundant mischief and absolute sincerity, that she possesses a soul.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19957244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19957244", "title": "Pafos Aphrodite Festival Cyprus", "text": "Pafos Aphrodite Festival Cyprus\n\nThe Pafos Aphrodite Festival Cyprus is a company established to promote Paphos in Cyprus as an international centre of high-profile cultural events. Its aim is to organise and manage a yearly international artistic event that takes place at the square in front of the medieval castle at the harbour in Kato Paphos. It organises and hosts an opera performance at the end of August or early September and has over the years invited a variety of internationally acclaimed companies and performances to the festival:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4218585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4218585", "title": "Popular assembly", "text": "Popular assembly\n\nA popular assembly (or people's assembly) is a gathering called to address issues of importance to participants. Assemblies tend to be freely open to participation and operate by direct democracy. Some assemblies are of people from a location, some from a given workplace, industry or educational establishment others are called to address a specific issue.\n\nThe term is often used to describe gatherings that address, what participants feel are, the effects of a democratic deficit in a representative democratic systems. Sometimes assemblies are created to form an alternative power structure, other times they work with other forms of government.\n\n\nIn Athenian democracy the Ecclesia was the assembly of all male citizens. Citizens who did not engage politically were called ἰδιώτης (\"idiōtēs\"), meaning a private person, a person who is not actively interested in politics; such characters were talked about with contempt and the word eventually transformed to its modern form - idiot.\n\nDuring the Argentine economic crisis (1999–2002) many Argentinian citizens started engaging and organising their actions through assemblies.\n\nAfter closure the Chilvert printing press was occupied by workers who organised through an assembly. Within weeks of being reopened as a workers cooperative Chilvert printed a book called \"Que son las Asembleas Populares?\" or \"What are the Popular Assemblies?\", a collection of articles written by renowned intellectuals , Stella Calloni and Rafael Bielsa as well as workers and participants in the assemblies.\n\nAs with other workplaces, the print factory was saved from closure by the actions of a popular assembly. The military and police were blocked from entering the factory after the popular assembly of Pompeya called on barrio residents to protect the workplace. Individual police officers expressed their support for the workers and the popular assembly and successfully petitioned the judge to rescind his order to seize the factory.\n\nThe assemblies movement is reported to have spiked in power rapidly and fallen from any major significance within months. It is reported that Grigera summing up his analysis of the asambleas states\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32801846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32801846", "title": "Removing article from place open to the public", "text": "Removing article from place open to the public\n\nRemoving article from place open to the public is a statutory offence in England and Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\nThis offence is created by section 11(1) of the Theft Act 1968. Sections 11(1) to (3) of that Act read:\n\nThe following cases are relevant:\n\nSection 11(3)\n\nEdward Griew said that section 11(3) corresponds to sections 2(1)(a) and (b) (as to which, see dishonesty).\n\nVisiting forces\n\nThis offence is an offence against property for the purposes of section 3 of the Visiting Forces Act 1952.\n\nMode of trial and sentence\n\nThis offence is triable either way. A person guilty of this offence is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the prescribed sum, or to both.\n\n\"The Goya clause\"\n\nThe clause of the Theft Bill that became section 11 was popularly known as the \"Goya clause\". The name referred to the unauthorised removal of Goya's portrait of the Duke of Wellington from the National Gallery.\n\nCriticism\n\nEdward Griew said that the complexity of this offence is disproportionate to its importance.\n\nThis offence is created by section 11(1) of the Theft Act (Northern Ireland) 1969. Section 11 of that Act is derived from section 11 of the Theft Act 1968.\n\nVisiting forces\n\nThis offence is an offence against property for the purposes of section 3 of the Visiting Forces Act 1952.\n\nMode of trial\n\nThis offence is an indictable offence which may be tried summarily upon consent of the accused. See hybrid offence.\n\nSentence\n\nA person guilty of this offence is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months, or to a fine not exceeding the prescribed sum, or to both.\n"}
{"id": "914005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914005", "title": "Ring a Ring o' Roses", "text": "Ring a Ring o' Roses\n\n\"Ring a Ring o' Roses\" or \"Ring a Ring o' Rosie\" is a nursery rhyme or folksong and playground singing game. It first appeared in print in 1881, but it is reported that a version was already being sung to the current tune in the 1790s and similar rhymes are known from across Europe. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 7925. Urban legend says the song originally described the plague, specifically the Great Plague of London, or the Black Death, but folklorists reject this idea.\n\nIt is unknown what the earliest version of the rhyme was or when it began. Many incarnations of the game have a group of children form a ring, dance in a circle around a person, and stoop or curtsy with the final line. The slowest child to do so is faced with a penalty or becomes the \"rosie\" (literally: rose tree, from the French \"rosier\") and takes their place in the center of the ring. \n\nVariations, corruptions, and vulgarized versions were noted to be in use long before the earliest printed publications. One such variation was dated to be in use in Connecticut in the 1840s.\n\nCommon British versions include:\n<poem>\nRing-a-ring o' roses,\nA pocket full of posies,\nA-tishoo! A-tishoo!\nWe all fall down.</poem>\n\n<poem>\nCows in the meadows \nEating buttercups\nA-tishoo! A-tishoo!\nWe all jump up.</poem>\n\nCommon American versions include:\n<poem>\nRing-a-round the rosies,\nA pocket full of posies,\nAshes! Ashes!\nWe all fall down.</poem>\n\nCommon Indian versions include:\n<poem>\nRinga ringa roses,\nPocket full of poses\nHusha busha!\nWe all fall down!</poem>\nThe last two lines are sometimes varied to:\n<poem>\nHush! Hush! Hush! Hush!\nWe've all tumbled down.</poem>\n\nA reference to a young children's game named \"Ring o' Roses\" occurs in an 1846 article from the \"Brooklyn Eagle\". A group of young children (the eldest being about seven) form a ring, from which a boy takes out a girl and kisses her.\n\nAn early version of the rhyme occurs in a novel of 1855, \"The Old Homestead\" by Ann S. Stephens:\n\n<poem>\nA ring – a ring of roses,\nLaps full of posies;\nAwake – awake!\nNow come and make\nA ring – a ring of roses.</poem>\n\nThe novel goes on to describe a nineteenth-century Fourth of July celebration by children housed in a hospital in Roosevelt Island, New York (then known as \"Blackwell's Island\"): 'Then the little girls began to seek their own amusements. They played \"hide and seek,\" \"ring, ring a rosy,\" and a thousand wild and pretty games'.\n\nAnother early printing of the rhyme was in Kate Greenaway's 1881 edition of \"Mother Goose; or, the Old Nursery Rhymes\":\n\n<poem>\nRing-a-ring-a-roses,\nA pocket full of posies;\nHush! hush! hush! hush!\nWe're all tumbled down.</poem>\n\nIn 1882, Godey's Lady's Book has the following version:\n\n<poem>\nRing around a rosy\nPocket full of posies.\nOne, two, three—squat!</poem>\n\nBefore the last line, the children stop suddenly, then exclaim it together, \"suiting the action to\nthe word with unfailing hilarity and complete satisfaction\".\n\nIn his \"Games and Songs of American Children\" (1883), William Wells Newell reports several variants, one of which he provides with a melody and dates to New Bedford, Massachusetts around 1790:\n<poem>\nRing a ring a Rosie,\nA bottle full of posie,\nAll the girls in our town\nRing for little Josie.\n</poem>\n\nNewell writes that '[a]t the end of the words the children suddenly stoop, and the last to get down undergoes some penalty, or has to take the place of the child in the centre, who represents the \"rosie\" (rose-tree; French, \"rosier\").'\n\nAn 1883 collection of Shropshire folk-lore includes the following version:\n<poem>\nA ring, a ring o' roses,\nA pocket-full o' posies;\nOne for Jack and one for Jim and one for little Moses!\nA-tisha! a-tisha! a-tisha!\n</poem>\n\nOn the last line \"they stand and imitate sneezing\".\n\nA manuscript of rhymes collected in Lancashire at the same period gives three closely related versions, with the now familiar sneezing, for instance:\n\n<poem>\nA ring, a ring o' roses,\nA pocket full o' posies-\nAtishoo atishoo we all fall down.</poem>\n\nIn 1892, folklorist Alice Gomme could give twelve versions.\n\nA German rhyme first printed in 1796 closely resembles \"Ring a ring o'roses\" in its first stanza and accompanies the same actions (with sitting rather than falling as the concluding action):\n\n<poem>\nRingel ringel reihen,\nWir sind der Kinder dreien,\nsitzen unter'm Hollerbusch\nUnd machen alle Husch husch husch!</poem>\n\nLoosely translated this says \"Ringed, ringed row. We are three children, sitting under an elder bush. All of us going hush, hush, hush!\" The rhyme is well known in Germany with the first line \"\"Ringel, Ringel, Reihe\" (as the popular collection \"Des Knaben Wunderhorn\" gave it); it has many local variants, often with \"Husch, husch, husch\"\" (which in German could mean \"quick, quick\") in the fourth line, comparable to the \"Hush! hush! hush! hush!\" of the first printed English version. This popular variant is notable:\n\n<poem>\nRingel, Ringel, Rosen,\nSchöne Aprikosen,\nVeilchen blau, Vergissmeinnicht,\nAlle Kinder setzen sich!</poem>\n\nThe translation is \"A ring, a ring of roses. Beautiful apricots. Blue violets, forget-me-nots. All children sit down.\"\n\nSwiss versions have the children dancing round a rosebush. Other European singing games with a strong resemblance include \"Roze, roze, meie\" (\"Rose, rose, May\") from The Netherlands with a similar tune to \"Ring a ring o' roses\" and \"Gira, gira rosa\" (\"Circle, circle, rose\"), recorded in Venice in 1874, in which girls danced around the girl in the middle who skipped and curtsied as demanded by the verses and at the end kissed the one she liked best, so choosing her for the middle.\n\nIn Croatian/Serbian/Bosnian language, there is a similar rhyme called \"Ringe Ringe Raja\":\n\n<poem>\nRinge-ringe-raja,\nDoš'o čika Paja,\nPa pojeo jaja.\nJedno jaje muć,\nA mi, djeco, čuč!</poem>\n\nA rough translation is \"Ringe Ringe Raya (doesn't mean anything, this is common in Croato-Serbian rhymes), uncle Ducky has came, and he ate all the eggs, one egg crashed, and we children squat!\" On the last word, the children singing the rhyme jump or squat.\n\nThe origins and meanings of the game have long been unknown and subject to speculation. In 1898, \"A Dictionary of British Folklore\" contained the belief that an explanation of the game was of pagan origin, based on the \"Sheffield Glossary\" comparison of Jacob Grimm's \"Deutsche Mythologie\". The theory states that it is in reference to Pagan myths and cited a passage which states, \"Gifted children of fortune have the power to laugh roses, as Freyja wept gold.\" Believing the first instance to be indicative of Pagan beings of light. Another suggestion is more literal, that it was making a \"ring\" around the roses and bowing with the all \"fall down\" as a curtsy. In 1892, the American writer, Eugene Field wrote a poem titled \"Teeny-Weeny\" that specifically referred to fey folk playing ring-a-rosie. According to \"Games and Songs of American Children\", published in 1883, the \"rosie\" was a reference to the French word for rose tree and the children would dance and stoop to the person in the center. Variations, especially more literal ones, were identified and noted with the literal falling down that would sever the connections to the game-rhyme. Again in 1898, sneezing was then noted to be indicative of many superstitious and supernatural beliefs across differing cultures.\n\nSince the 20th century, the rhyme has often been associated with the Great Plague which happened in England in 1665, or with earlier outbreaks of the Black Death in England. Interpreters of the rhyme before the Second World War make no mention of this; by 1951, however, it seems to have become well established as an explanation for the form of the rhyme that had become standard in the United Kingdom. Peter and Iona Opie, the leading authorities on nursery rhymes, remarked:\n\nThe line \"Ashes, Ashes\" in colonial versions of the rhyme is claimed to refer variously to cremation of the bodies, the burning of victims' houses, or blackening of their skin, and the theory has been adapted to be applied to other versions of the rhyme. In its various forms, the interpretation has entered into popular culture and has been used elsewhere to make oblique reference to the plague.\n\nFolklore scholars regard the theory as baseless for several reasons:\n\n"}
{"id": "54643263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54643263", "title": "Robert M. Huffstutler", "text": "Robert M. Huffstutler\n\nRobert M. Huffstutler was director of National Photographic Interpretation Center from February 1984 to January 1988.\n\nAt the time of his appointment as director of NPIC, Huffstutler was a twenty-five year veteran of Central Intelligence Agency, and head of the intelligence directorate's Office of Soviet Analysis. He had served in Office of Strategic Research from 1967 to 1982.\n\nHuffstutler received a BA in economics and an MA in international economics from the University of California at Berkeley. He also attended the Institute for Defense Analysis, University of Maryland and at the Royal College of Defense Studies, London, England. After completing his graduate degree in 1958, he joined the CIA as an international economist. Within a few months he was reassigned to work as a military force analyst in the office that was later designated the Office of Strategic Research (OSR) in the Directorate of Intelligence.\n\nIn 1967, he was reassigned to the Strategic Defense Branch of OSR. From 1976 to 1978 he served as deputy director of the Office of Weapons Intelligence, and in late 1978 he became director of Strategic Research. In 1982, when the \nDirectorate of Intelligence was reorganized, he became the director of Soviet Analysis.\n\nDuring his tenure as director of NPIC (February 1984 to January 1988), Huffstutler transformed imagery analysis with a large technical modernization program. He established the National Exploitation Laboratory to enhance imagery exploitation, launched a product quality improvement program, and implemented a new personnel system. In early 1998 Huffstutler returned to the CIA as deputy director for Administration; four years later he was named executive director. He retired from the CIA in 1994.\n\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "18345065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18345065", "title": "SR-22 (insurance)", "text": "SR-22 (insurance)\n\nIn the United States, an SR-22 (sometimes referred to as a certificate of insurance or a financial responsibility filing) is a vehicle liability insurance document required by most state Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) offices for \"high-risk\" insurance policies.\n\nA DMV may require an SR-22 from a driver to reinstate his or her driving privileges following an uninsured car accident or conviction of another traffic-related offense, such as a DUI. An SR-22 may be required for three years for conviction of driving without insurance or driving with a suspended license and up to five years for a DUI. If an SR-22 should expire or be canceled, the insurance company is required to issue an SR-26 form, which certifies the cancellation of the policy.\n\nSome states accept an SR-22 as an alternative to a deposit in cash or security as proof of financial responsibility. In Arizona, for instance, a driver seeking reinstatement under some circumstances may submit a SR-22 in lieu of depositing $40,000 in cash or certificates of deposit.\n\n"}
{"id": "53872529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53872529", "title": "STARTS Prize", "text": "STARTS Prize\n\nThe STARTS Prize is the grand prize of the European Commission that honors projects that demonstrate the successful integration of science, technology and art to contribute to social and economic innovation.\n\nTwo grand prize winners and up to ten honorary mentions are selected by an international jury each year. One grand prize is awarded for innovative collaboration between industry or technology and the arts that open new pathways for innovation. A second grand prize is awarded for artistic exploration and art works where appropriation by the arts has a strong potential to influence or alter the use, deployment or perception of technology. The prize is funded under Horizon 2020 and is awarded on behalf of the European Commission, Ars Electronica in collaboration with BOZAR and Waag Society.\n"}
{"id": "2431419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431419", "title": "Seating assignment", "text": "Seating assignment\n\nIn live entertainment, there are several possible schemes for the seating assignment of spectators. There are several schemes which are most commonly used, though there are no hard and fast rules and alternate or modified schemes are sometimes used as is suitable to the event.\n\nIn a purely reserved seating (also known as allocated seating or assigned seating) scheme, each ticket is assigned a specific seat in the venue at the time of purchase. Seats are typically identified by row number/letter, seat number, and sometimes by section.\n\nReserved seating is the most common scheme used for large indoor venues such as stadia, arenas, and larger theatres. It is also common at other venues, as are other seating schemes, such as outdoor amphitheatres.\n\nIn a general admission (also known as open seating or free seating) scheme, each spectator has a ticket. However, the location from which they will watch the event is determined upon arrival at the venue. General admission is most commonly employed in seat-less venues, such as outdoor festival shows and smaller club shows. It is also sometimes used in seat-less sections of events that would otherwise have reserved seating (standing-room only sections, including the floor section(s) at some concerts). In some general admission events, a ticket may still assign the holder a specific section of the venue (e.g., balcony or floor), with the choice of seat within that section.\n\nGeneral admission can also refer to a scheme in which seating is available; however, it is not pre-assigned. Typically in this scheme, seat selection is on a first-come, first-served basis. A common example of this scheme is most movie theatres in the United States.\n\nGeneral admission events may be ticketed with no assigned seat number, or it may be purely first-come, first-served, in which the first certain number of people in line are admitted (either as a free event, or paying at the door/gate). Due to the first-come, first-served nature of the seating selection, line-ups may still form for pre-ticketed events.\n\nFestival seating typically refers to the form of general admission (first-come, first-served) in which there is a large open area (generally outdoors) and all spectators must stand (unless they are permitted to bring their own portable seating). Many music acts use festival seating because it allows the most enthusiastic fans to get near the stage and generate excitement for the rest of the crowd. Some performers and bands insist on a festival seating area near the stage.\n\nOn December 3, 1979, the Riverfront Coliseum in Cincinnati, Ohio, was the site of one of the worst rock concert tragedies in United States history. Eleven fans were killed and several dozen others injured in the rush for seating at the opening of a sold-out concert by The Who. The concert was using festival seating. When the crowds waiting outside heard the band performing a soundcheck, they thought the concert was beginning and rammed the still-closed doors, trampling those at the front of the crowd.\n\nThe tragedy was blamed on poor crowd control, mainly the failure of arena management to open enough doors to deal with the crowd outside. As a result, concert venues across North America switched to assigned seating or changed their rules about festival seating. Cincinnati immediately outlawed festival seating at concerts, although it overturned the ban on August 4, 2004, since the ban was making it difficult for Cincinnati to book concerts. (In 2002, the city had made a one-time exception to the ban, allowing festival seating for a Bruce Springsteen concert; no problems were experienced.) Cincinnati was the only city in the U.S. to outlaw festival seating altogether.\n\n\"Lawn seating\" refers to a seating method where concert-goers sit on the grass in the rear of the venue. Attendees can sometimes bring their own chairs, or rent them from vendors at the concert.\n\n"}
{"id": "13645695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13645695", "title": "Surge Events", "text": "Surge Events\n\nSurge Events is the name of a series of art events which ran from 2006 to 2008 in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada. While the focus was mainly on music, Surge is, in effect, a continuing multi-disciplinary festival with literary readings, film and video. Musical performers have included Motion Ensemble, John Born, Chris Giles, Eric Hill and Bill McIver. Surge Events was eventually replaced by Surgery Series, Motion Ensemble concerts, Open Arts.\n"}
{"id": "20068276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20068276", "title": "Terence Tolbert", "text": "Terence Tolbert\n\nTerence D. Tolbert (1964 – November 2, 2008) was an American political operative who was the Nevada state director for Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign and an aide to Joel Klein, the New York City School Chancellor. Tolbert's death came two days before the 2008 presidential election, and the same day as Obama's grandmother.\n\nTolbert was born and raised in Harlem. He graduated from the Bronx High School of Science, where he was a classmate of Christopher \"Kid\" Reid, the rap musician and actor, and John T. Georgopoulos, a fantasy sports writer. He later earned a bachelor's degree from Hunter College. He had lived in Harlem with his wife, Freida Foster-Tolbert.\n\nTolbert started his career in politics when he worked at the New York State Senate Minority Program Office in Albany. He also served on the staff of State Senators Martin Connor and Joseph L. Galiber, and for Representative Charles B. Rangel.\n\nHe was the chief of staff to New York State Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright for eight years. In 2003 and 2004, Tolbert was the New York state director for the presidential campaign of John Edwards. Tolbert had taken a leave from his position as chief of staff to Assemblyman Wright, who was in turn supporting John Kerry's presidential bid.\n\nAfter leaving the Edwards campaign in 2004, Tolbert was the Nevada state director of America Coming Together, a 527 group dedicated to get out the vote efforts, primarily for Democratic candidates. Tolbert served as the liaison to ethnic, religious and cultural groups in the city for Mayor of New York City Michael Bloomberg in his bid for a second term in the 2005 mayoral election. He had also worked on the campaigns of Senator Chuck Schumer and former Governor of New York Eliot Spitzer.\n\nTolbert was hired by the New York City Department of Education in 2006, serving as its primary representative in Albany, New York and Washington, D.C. lobbying on behalf of Bloomberg's efforts to extend the law due to expire in June 2009 that grants the mayor primary authority over the New York City public schools.\n\nHe took a leave of absence from the Department of Education in July to work in Nevada as state director for the Obama campaign, with the Democrats making a strong effort in a state that had traditionally been solidly Republican. Barack Obama took Nevada's five electoral votes, defeating John McCain by a 56%-42% margin, carrying Nevada by 120,000 votes in a state the George W. Bush had won by 20,000 votes in the 2004 election.\n\nOn the evening of November 2, 2008, in North Las Vegas, Nevada, Tolbert suffered a heart attack while driving alone near the Obama campaign offices. He was taken to North Vista Hospital and died there, aged 44.\n\nIn a press release, Mayor Bloomberg described Tolbert as one of the most likeable and hardworking people in the world and \"a valued member of our administration\" who \"had become a personal friend\". Schools Chancellor Klein eulogized Tolbert as someone \"who believed deeply that government can and must play a constructive role in improving the lives of its citizens\" in his role as Executive Director of Inter-Governmental Relations. A statement issued by the Obama campaign characterized Tolbert as \"a strong force in this campaign, with a positive outlook that brought people together.\"\n\nTolbert's funeral was held at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine.\n\nTolbert's middle school in Harlem was named after him in November 2008, as a memorial.\n\nHe was survived by his wife and mother.\n"}
{"id": "46674996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46674996", "title": "Ticketbud", "text": "Ticketbud\n\nTicketbud is an event management, ticketing and registration SaaS platform for event organizers. The software allows event organizers to sell tickets to events and also to promote and market their events on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Founded in 2009 in Austin, Texas, Ticketbud's revenue is derived from a fee placed upon tickets sold through its software at $0.99 + 2% of the ticket's value per ticket. It places no fee upon events which cost nothing to enter, and due to its involvement with non-profits it offers a reduced rate for organizations under 501(c)(3) designation.\n\n\nIn 2011, Ticketbud received $1.2 million in its Series A round of funding.\n\n"}
{"id": "12885466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12885466", "title": "Wonderfest", "text": "Wonderfest\n\nWonderfest is a nonprofit California corporation dedicated to informal science education. Wonderfest inspires and nurtures a deep sense of wonder about the world. Through provocative public discourse about science, Wonderfest stimulates curiosity, promotes careful reasoning, challenges unexamined beliefs, and encourages lifelong learning. Wonderfest achieves these ends primarily through regular public science gatherings in the San Francisco Bay Area and through online science videos. To date, more than 25,000 people have attended Wonderfest events, and more than 1 million have watched Wonderfest videos.\n\nWonderfest achieved corporate independence in September 2011. During the preceding fourteen years, Wonderfest was an educational project of, first, San Francisco University High School, then, The Branson School. From 1998 to 2010, Wonderfest produced an annual science festival—the first such community-wide event in the United States—that presented a series of expert dialogues on topics of scientific controversy. The topics were varied, covering astronomy, biology, psychology, physics, etc. In 2011, this festival was supplanted by the Bay Area Science Festival, headquartered at the University of California, San Francisco.\n\nWonderfest, subtitled \"The Bay Area Beacon of Science,\" is dedicated to the memory of Carl Sagan. From 2002 through 2010, and again in 2015, Wonderfest awarded the $5000 Carl Sagan Prize for Science Popularization.\n\nWonderfest's founding director is Tucker Hiatt, physics teacher and former Stanford Visiting Scholar. Wonderfest's board of directors now guides its development:\n\n\nEmeritus Board Members\n\n"}
{"id": "213446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213446", "title": "World view", "text": "World view\n\nA world view or worldview is the fundamental cognitive orientation of an individual or society encompassing the whole of the individual's or society's knowledge and point of view. A world view can include natural philosophy; fundamental, existential, and normative postulates; or themes, values, emotions, and ethics. The term is a calque of the German word Weltanschauung , composed of \"Welt\" ('world') and \"Anschauung\" ('view' or 'outlook'). The German word is also used in English.\n\nIt is a concept fundamental to German philosophy and epistemology and refers to a \"wide world perception\". Additionally, it refers to the framework of ideas and beliefs forming a global description through which an individual, group or culture watches and interprets the world and interacts with it.\n\nWorldview remains a confused and confusing concept in English, used very differently by linguists and sociologists. It is for this reason that James W. Underhill suggests five subcategories: world-perceiving, world-conceiving, cultural mindset, personal world, and perspective.\n\nWorldviews are often taken to operate at a conscious level, directly accessible to articulation and discussion, as opposed to existing at a deeper, pre-conscious level, such as the idea of \"ground\" in Gestalt psychology and media analysis. However, core worldview beliefs are often deeply rooted, and so are only rarely reflected on by individuals, and are brought to the surface only in moments of crises of faith.\n\nThe Prussian philologist Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767–1835) originated the idea that language and worldview are inextricable. Humboldt saw language as part of the creative adventure of mankind. Culture, language and linguistic communities developed simultaneously and could not do so without one another. In stark contrast to linguistic determinism, which invites us to consider language as a constraint, a framework or a prison house, Humboldt maintained that speech is inherently and implicitly creative. Human beings take their place in speech and continue to modify language and thought by their creative exchanges. \n\nEdward Sapir (1884–1939) also gives an account of the relationship between thinking and speaking in English.\n\nThe linguistic relativity hypothesis of Benjamin Lee Whorf (1897–1941) describes how the syntactic-semantic structure of a language becomes an underlying structure for the world view or \"Weltanschauung\" of a people through the organization of the causal perception of the world and the linguistic categorization of entities. As linguistic categorization emerges as a representation of worldview and causality, it further modifies social perception and thereby leads to a continual interaction between language and perception.\n\nWhorf's hypothesis became influential in the late 1940s, but declined in prominence after a decade. In the 1990s, new research gave further support for the linguistic relativity theory in the works of Stephen Levinson (1947–) and his team at the Max Planck institute for psycholinguistics at Nijmegen, Netherlands.\nThe theory has also gained attention through the work of Lera Boroditsky at Stanford University.\n\nOne of the most important concepts in cognitive philosophy and cognitive sciences is the German concept of \"Weltanschauung\". This expression has often been used to refer to the \"wide worldview\" or \"wide world perception\" of a people, family, or person. The \"Weltanschauung\" of a people originates from the unique world experience of a people, which they experience over several millennia.The language of a people reflects the \"Weltanschauung\" of that people in the form of its syntactic structures and untranslatable connotations and its denotations.\n\nThe term \"Weltanschauung\" is often wrongly attributed to Wilhelm von Humboldt, the founder of German ethnolinguistics. However, as Jürgen Trabant points out, and as James W. Underhill reminds us, Humboldt's key concept was \"Weltansicht\". \"Weltansicht\" was used by Humboldt to refer to the overarching conceptual and sensorial apprehension of reality shared by a linguistic community (Nation). On the other hand, \"Weltanschauung\", first used by Kant and later popularized by Hegel, was always used in German and later in English to refer more to philosophies, ideologies and cultural or religious perspectives, than to linguistic communities and their mode of apprehending reality.\n\nA worldview can be expressed as the \"fundamental cognitive, affective, and evaluative presuppositions a group of people make about the nature of things, and which they use to order their lives.\"\n\nIf it were possible to draw a map of the world on the basis of \"Weltanschauung\", it would probably be seen to cross political borders—\"Weltanschauung\" is the product of political borders and common experiences of a people from a geographical region, environmental-climatic conditions, the economic resources available, socio-cultural systems, and the language family. (The work of the population geneticist Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza aims to show the gene-linguistic co-evolution of people).\n\nIf the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis is correct, the worldview map of the world would be similar to the linguistic map of the world. However, it would also almost coincide with a map of the world drawn on the basis of music across people.\n\nAs natural language becomes manifestations of world perception, the literature of a people with common \"Weltanschauung\" emerges as holistic representations of the wide world perception of the people. Thus the extent and commonality between world folk-epics becomes a manifestation of the commonality and extent of a worldview.\n\nEpic poems are shared often by people across political borders and across generations. Examples of such epics include the Nibelungenlied of the Germanic people, the Iliad for the Ancient Greeks and Hellenized societies, the Silappadhikaram of the Tamil people, the Ramayana and Mahabharata of the Hindus, the Gilgamesh of the Mesopotamian-Sumerian civilization and the people of the Fertile Crescent at large, The Book of One Thousand and One Nights (Arabian nights) of the Arab world and the Sundiata epic of the Mandé people.\n\nA worldview, according to terror management theory (TMT), serves as a buffer against death anxiety. It is theorised that living up to the ideals of one's worldview provides a sense of self-esteem which provides a sense of transcending the limits of human life (e.g. literally, as in religious belief in immortality, symbolically, as in art works or children to live on after one's death, or in contributions to one's culture). Evidence in support of terror management theory includes a series of experiments by Jeff Schimel and colleagues in which a group of Canadians found to score highly on a measure of patriotism were asked to read an essay attacking the dominant Canadian worldview.\n\nUsing a test of death-thought accessibility (DTA), involving an ambiguous word completion test (e.g. \"COFF__\" could either be completed as either \"COFFEE\" or \"COFFIN\" or \"COFFER\"), participants who had read the essay attacking their worldview were found to have a significantly higher level of DTA than the control group, who read a similar essay attacking Australian cultural values. Mood was also measured following the worldview threat, to test whether the increase in death thoughts following worldview threat were due to other causes, for example, anger at the attack on one's cultural worldview. No significant changes on mood scales were found immediately following the worldview threat.\n\nTo test the generalisability of these findings to groups and worldviews other than those of nationalistic Canadians, Schimel \"et al\" conducted a similar experiment on a group of religious individuals whose worldview included that of creationism. Participants were asked to read an essay which argued in support of the theory of evolution, following which the same measure of DTA was taken as for the Canadian group. Religious participants with a creationist worldview were found to have a significantly higher level of death-thought accessibility than those of the control group.\n\nGoldenberg \"et al\" found that highlighting the similarities between humans and other animals increases death-thought accessibility, as does attention to the physical rather than meaningful qualities of sex.\n\nThe term World View denotes a comprehensive set of opinions, seen as an organic unity, about the world as the medium and exercise of human existence. World View serves as a framework for generating various dimensions of human perception and experience like knowledge, politics, economics, religion, culture, science and ethics. For example, worldview of causality as \"uni-directional\", \"cyclic\", or \"spiral\" generates a framework of the world that reflects these systems of causality.\n\nAn unidirectional view of causality is present in some monotheistic views of the world with a beginning and an end and a single great force with a single end (e.g., Christianity and Islam), while a cyclic worldview of causality is present in religious traditions which are cyclic and seasonal and wherein events and experiences recur in systematic patterns (e.g., Zoroastrianism, Mithraism and Hinduism). These worldviews of causality not only underlie religious traditions but also other aspects of thought like the purpose of history, political and economic theories, and systems like democracy, authoritarianism, anarchism, capitalism, socialism and communism.\n\nThe worldview of a linear and non-linear causality generates various related/conflicting disciplines and approaches in scientific thinking. The \"Weltanschauung\" of the temporal contiguity of act and event leads to underlying diversifications like \"determinism\" vs. \"free will\". A worldview of free will leads to disciplines that are governed by simple laws that remain constant and are static and empirical in scientific method, while a worldview of determinism generates disciplines that are governed with generative systems and rationalistic in scientific method.\n\nSome forms of philosophical naturalism and materialism reject the validity of entities inaccessible to natural science. They view the scientific method as the most reliable model for building an understanding of the world.\n\nNishida Kitaro wrote extensively on \"the Religious Worldview\" in exploring the philosophical significance of Eastern religions.\n\nAccording to Neo-Calvinist David Naugle's \"World view: The History of a Concept\", \"Conceiving of Christianity as a worldview has been one of the most significant developments in the recent history of the church.\"\n\nThe Christian thinker James W. Sire defines a worldview as \"a commitment, a fundamental orientation of the heart, that can be expressed as a story or in a set of presuppositions (assumptions which may be true, partially true, or entirely false) which we hold (consciously or subconsciously, consistently or inconsistently) about the basic construction of reality, and that provides the foundation on which we live and move and have our being.\" He suggests that \"we should all think in terms of worldviews, that is, with a consciousness not only of our own way of thought but also that of other people, so that we can first understand and then genuinely communicate with others in our pluralistic society.\"\n\nThe commitment mentioned by James W. Sire can be extended further. The worldview increases the commitment to serve the world. With the change of a person's view towards the world, he/she can be motivated to serve the world. This serving attitude has been illustrated by Tareq M Zayed as the 'Emancipatory Worldview' in his writing \"History of emancipatory worldview of Muslim learners\".\n\nThe question mentioned above - on whether the super-smart machines, that is, any \"superintelligences\", as expected by some, could have worldviews - is interesting in this context and this would influence human worldviews. \n\nThe philosophical importance of worldviews became increasingly clear during the 20th century for a number of reasons, such as increasing contact between cultures, and the failure of some aspects of the Enlightenment project, such as the rationalist project of attaining all truth by reason alone. Mathematical logic showed that fundamental choices of axioms were essential in deductive reasoning and that, even having chosen axioms not everything that was true in a given logical system could be proven. Some philosophers believe the problems extend to \"the inconsistencies and failures which plagued the Enlightenment attempt to identify universal moral and rational principles\"; although Enlightenment principles such as universal suffrage and the universal declaration of human rights are accepted, if not taken for granted, by many.\n\nThe theory of relativity offers a Weltanschauung that is revolting to absolute space and time, yet provides a context for modern theories of electromagnetism and gravity. In a book review for a new undergraduate textbook on relativity by Wolfgang Rindler, Kenneth Jacobs noted that \"during the post-Sputnik era, special relativity began to take its rightful place in the undergraduate curriculum\". On the adoption of the Weltanschauung, he notes, \"The historical impact of any world picture is ... partly attributable to the zeal of the promulgators and to the efficacy of their teachings.\"\n\nPhilosophers also distinguish the manifest image from the scientific image. These phrases are due to the American 20th century philosopher Wilfrid Sellars. This is one angle on the ancient philosophical distinction between appearance and reality which is particularly pertinent to everyday contemporary living. Indeed, many believe that the scientific image, with its reductionist methodology, will undermine our sense of individual freedom and responsibility. So, many worry that as science advances, particularly cognitive neuroscience, we will be dehumanized. This certainly has powerful Nietzschean undertones. When our immediately given, manifest (sc. obvious) self-conception is shaken, what is lost for the individual and society? And does it have to be that way? Some questions well worth working on, then, are those concerning the refinement of the manifest view of such centrally important concepts such as free will, the self and individuality, and the possibility of real or lived meaning.\n\nWhile Leo Apostel and his followers clearly hold that individuals can construct worldviews, other writers regard worldviews as operating at a community level, or in an unconscious way. For instance, if one's worldview is fixed by one's language, as according to a strong version of the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, one would have to learn or invent a new language in order to construct a new worldview.\n\nAccording to Apostel, a worldview is an ontology, or a descriptive model of the world. It should comprise these six elements:\n\nFrom across the world across all of the cultures, Roland Muller has suggested that cultural world views can be broken down into three separate world views. It is not simple enough to say that each person is one of these three cultures. Instead, each individual is a mix of the three. For example, a person may be raised in a Power–Fear society, in an Honor–Shame family, and go to school under a Guilt–Innocence system.\n\nIn a Guilt–Innocence focused culture, schools focus on deductive reasoning, cause and effect, good questions, and process. Issues are often seen as black and white. Written contracts are paramount. Communication is direct, and can be blunt.\n\nSocieties with a predominantly Honor–Shame worldview teach children to make honorable choices according to the situations they find themselves in. Communication, interpersonal interaction, and business dealings are very relationship-driven, with every interaction having an effect on the Honor–Shame status of the participants. In an Honor–Shame society the crucial objective is to avoid shame and to be viewed honorably by other people. The Honor–Shame paradigm is especially strong in most regions of Asia.\n\nSome cultures can be seen very clearly in operating under a Power–Fear worldview. In these cultures it is very important to assess the people around you and know where they fall in line according to their level of power. This can be used for good or for bad. A benevolent king rules with power and his citizens fully support him wielding that power. On the converse, a ruthless dictator can use his power to create a culture of fear where his citizens are oppressed.\n\nAccording to Michael Lind, \"a worldview is a more or less coherent understanding of the nature of reality, which permits its holders to interpret new information in light of their preconceptions. Clashes among worldviews cannot be ended by a simple appeal to facts. Even if rival sides agree on the facts, people may disagree on conclusions because of their different premises.\" This is why politicians often seem to talk past one another, or ascribe different meanings to the same events. Tribal or national wars are often the result of incompatible worldviews. Lind has organized American political worldviews into five categories:\nLind argues that even though not all people will fit neatly into only one category or the other, their core worldview shape how they frame their arguments.\n\nOne can think of a worldview as comprising a number of basic beliefs which are philosophically equivalent to the axioms of the worldview considered as a logical theory. These basic beliefs cannot, by definition, be proven (in the logical sense) within the worldview precisely because they are axioms, and are typically argued \"from\" rather than argued \"for\". However their coherence can be explored philosophically and logically.\n\nIf two different worldviews have sufficient common beliefs it may be possible to have a constructive dialogue between them.\n\nOn the other hand, if different worldviews are held to be basically incommensurate and irreconcilable, then the situation is one of cultural relativism and would therefore incur the standard criticisms from philosophical realists.\nAdditionally, religious believers might not wish to see their beliefs relativized into something that is only \"true for them\".\nSubjective logic is a belief-reasoning formalism where beliefs explicitly are subjectively held by individuals but where a consensus between different worldviews can be achieved.\n\nA third alternative sees the worldview approach as only a methodological relativism, as a suspension judgment about the truth of various belief systems but not a declaration that there is no global truth. For instance, the religious philosopher Ninian Smart begins his \"Worldviews: Cross-cultural Explorations of Human Beliefs\" with \"Exploring Religions and Analysing Worldviews\" and argues for \"the neutral, dispassionate study of different religious and secular systems—a process I call worldview analysis.\"\n\nThe comparison of religious, philosophical or scientific worldviews is a delicate endeavor, because such worldviews start from different presuppositions and cognitive values. Clément Vidal has proposed metaphilosophical criteria for the comparison of worldviews, classifying them in three broad categories:\n\n\nDavid Bell has raised interesting questions on worldviews for the designers of superintelligences – machines much smarter than humans.  'Would they need worldviews, where would they get their worldviews and what would they be like?'. The answers would have to relate to, for example, Christian worldviews. Some of the people who consider features of superintelligences say they will have characteristics that are often associated with divinity, raising big open questions for Christian believers. For example, very advanced machines could, perhaps,   ultimately engender in people a terrified reverence and mystical awe in the light of, say, an artificial agent's impressive understanding of the human condition. And perhaps some humans might even be induced to 'worship and serve the creature rather than the Creator'? On the other hand what would the agent's relationship to God be? Anyone attempting to accommodate concepts such as an omnipotent, personal creator's sacrificial, emotional, spiritual and attitudinal demands being made of any man-made entity, superintelligent or not, could be said to have strayed into \"terra prohibita\" theologically, of course. And how would the worldviews of any superintelligences handle the relationships with what it might regard as its \"human\" 'creator'? \n\n"}
