{"id": "9442664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9442664", "title": "1921 in radio", "text": "1921 in radio\n\n1921 in radio details the internationally significant events in radio broadcasting for the year 1921.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47489976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47489976", "title": "1995 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1995 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1995 in Sri Lanka.\n\n"}
{"id": "2194214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2194214", "title": "Alexander Campbell Cheyne", "text": "Alexander Campbell Cheyne\n\nThe Rev. Professor Alexander Campbell Cheyne (1 June 1924 – 31 March 2006), commonly known as A. C. Cheyne, was one of the foremost Scottish scholars of Church History, teaching at New College, Edinburgh from 1958 until his retirement in 1986.\n\nAlec Cheyne helped students gain a nuanced appreciation of key personalities in Scottish history which rose above the polarities of Scottish ecclesiastical conflict.\n\nAmong his major publications are: \n\nThe festschrift \"Scottish Christianity in the Modern World\" (2000) was recently compiled in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "1321802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1321802", "title": "Amos Elon", "text": "Amos Elon\n\nAmos Elon (, July 4, 1926 – May 25, 2009) was an Israeli journalist and author. Elon was married to Beth Elon and father of filmmaker Danae Elon.\n\nAmos Elon was born in Vienna. He immigrated to Mandate Palestine in 1933. He studied law and history in Israel and England. He was married to Beth Elon, a New York-born literary agent, with whom he had one daughter, Danae. In the 1990s, Elon began to spend much of his time in Italy. In 2004 he moved there permanently, citing disillusionment with developments in Israel since 1967. Elon died on May 25, 2009 in Borgo Buggiano in Tuscany, Italy, aged 82. In 2005, his daughter Danae produced a biographical film about him, entitled \"Another Road Home\".\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, Elon served as a correspondent on European and American affairs for the newspaper \"Haaretz\". He took a leave of absence from Haaretz in 1971 and resumed in 1978. Elon retired from Haaretz in 2001. Elon was an early advocate for the creation of a Palestinian state and withdrawal from the territories occupied by Israel in 1967. He was a frequent contributor to the \"New York Review of Books\" and \"The New York Times Magazine\". For many years, he was widely regarded as one of Israel's leading journalists.\n\nElon was the author of nine books. He rose to international fame in the early 1970s after publishing \"The Israelis: Founders and Builders\", described as \"an affectionate but unsparing portrait of the early Zionists\". Plunkett Lake Press has recently reissued several of Elon's books in eBook form.\n\nIn 2007–2008, Elon was a fellow at the Center for Law and Security at New York University School of Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649501", "title": "Anatoly Fomenko", "text": "Anatoly Fomenko\n\nAnatoly Timofeevich Fomenko () (born 13 March 1945 in Stalino, USSR) is a Soviet and Russian mathematician, professor at Moscow State University, well known as a topologist, and a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences. He is author of a pseudoscientific theory known as New Chronology. He is also a member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (1991).\n\nFomenko is the son of Timothy Grigorievich Fomenko (Russian: Тимофей Григорьевич Фоме́нко), an industrial engineer, and Valentina Polikarpovna (née Markova) (Russian: Валентина Поликарповна Маркова), a philologist and teacher of Russian language and literature. His parents would later co-author his works on history in 1983 and 1996. Born in Donetsk, then called Stalino, he was raised and schooled in Magadan. In 1959, his family returned to Eastern Ukraine and settled in the city of Luhansk, where Fomenko attended Secondary School No. 26. During secondary school, Fomenko participated in many competitions relating to mathematics and won several medals as a result. Also in 1959, the magazine \"Pionyerskaya pravda\" (Russian: Пионерская правда, \"Pioneer Truth\") published his first known science fiction story, \"The Mystery of the Milky Way\".\n\nFomenko graduated from the Mechanics and Mathematics Faculty of Moscow State University in 1967, and in 1969 began working in the department of differential geometry in said faculty. In 1970 he defended his thesis \"Classification of totally geodesic manifolds realizing nontrivial cycles in Riemannian homogeneous spaces\", and in 1972 defended his doctoral thesis, \"The decision of the multidimensional Plateau problems on Riemannian manifolds.\" In December 1981 he became a professor of the department of higher geometry and topology, and in 1992 became the head of the department of differential geometry.\n\nFomenko has served as the editor of several Russian-language mathematics journals and is a member of many councils overseeing dissertations in his field. In 1996, he won the State Prize of the Russian Federation for excellence in mathematics.\n\nFomenko is a full member (Academician) of the Russian Academy of Sciences (1994), the International Higher Education Academy of Sciences (1993) and Russian Academy of Technological Sciences (2009), as well as a doctor of physics and mathematics (1972), a professor (1980), and head of the Differential Geometry and Applications Department of the Faculty of Mathematics and Mechanics in Moscow State University (1992). Fomenko is the author of the theory of topological invariants of an integrable Hamiltonian system. He is the author of 180 scientific publications, 26 monographs and textbooks on mathematics, a specialist in geometry and topology, variational calculus, symplectic topology, Hamiltonian geometry and mechanics, and computational geometry. Fomenko is also the author of a number of books on the development of new empirico-statistical methods and their application to the analysis of historical chronicles as well as the chronology of antiquity and the Middle Ages.\n\nFomenko is the author of extensive writings in his original fields of mathematics, and is also known for his original drawings inspired by topological objects and structures.\n\nDuring the Soviet years, Fomenko was frequently involved in the state-sponsored studies, an open source analysis, the subject of which was contemporary Western media news, which were analysed and searched for misinterpretations of actual events by mixed teams consisting of various Soviet scholars, using interdisciplinary approach and statistical analysis of textual information in particular. They routinely received the latest translated issues of the \"New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", BBC dispatches, etc., as well as wide array of various national and local newspapers, radio and televesion transcripts, and other open sources, searched them carefully for discrepancies and inconsistencies, preparing the consolidated reports for the official use only. Dealing professionally with biased information in the media, at some point Fomenko became obsessed with an idea that the entire history of mankind was skilfully falsified on purpose, and decided to apply the same methods he used during his contemporary studies to study ancient events. Thus, he simply ignores many written sources, as if they are biased media, and it is usual for the contemporary media to copy and reprint with minor copy editing some stories, originally published by the others, implying that if the original source is itself biased, then its renderings in other sources are no better, and multiplied by language barrier and broken telephone-effect they only add a confusion to already inaccurate picture. Based on that general idea, he proposed to use methods of exact sciences and natural science instead of just relying on a good faith of ancient chronologists and authors, that certain historical events could be traced and dated accurately by matching them to natural events of the time (such as eclipses, eruptions, etc.) cross-referenced in various eye-witness accounts. While some of his colleagues agree that indeed certain historical events require a very careful reexamination based on methods, which became available by today's cutting edge technology, Fomenko goes further and tries to re-examine the entire history.\n\nFomenko is a supporter of drastically revising historical chronology. He has created his own revision called New Chronology, based on statistical correlations, dating of zodiacs, and by examining the mathematics and astronomy involved in chronology. Fomenko claims that he has discovered that many historical events do not correspond mathematically with the dates they are supposed to have occurred on. He asserts from this that all of ancient history (including the history of Greece, Rome, and Egypt) is just a reflection of events that occurred in the Middle Ages and that all of Chinese and Arab history are fabrications of 17th and 18th century Jesuits.\n\nHe also claims that Jesus lived in the 12th century A.D. and was crucified on Joshua's Hill; that the Trojan War and the Crusades were the same historical event; and that Genghis Khan and the Mongols were actually Russians, that the lands west of the 13 colonies that now constitute the American West and Middle West were a far eastern part of \"Siberian-American Empire\" prior to its disintegration in 1775, and many other theories, that contradict the conventional historiography to say the least. As well as disputing written chronologies, Fomenko also disputes more objective dating techniques such as dendrochronology and radiocarbon dating (see here for an examination of the latter criticism). His books include \"Empirico-statistical Analysis of Narrative Material and Its Applications\" and \"\".\n\nMost Russian scientists and worldwide historians consider Fomenko's historical works to be either pseudoscientific or antiscientific.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45467161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45467161", "title": "Antoni Knot", "text": "Antoni Knot\n\nAntoni Knot (born 1904, died 2 January 1982 in Wrocław) was a Polish scholar, historian, librarian and teacher. In 1929 he gained Ph.D. in Philosophy at the University of Lwów. In 1965 he became professor (\"profesor zwyczajny\").\n\nFrom 1947 to 1949 Knot was the chief librarian of Ossolineum.\n"}
{"id": "8965445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8965445", "title": "Benedict Sandin", "text": "Benedict Sandin\n\nBenedict Sandin (1918–1982) was an Iban ethnologist, historian, and Curator of the Sarawak Museum in Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia. He also served as Government Ethnologist to the Government of Sarawak.\n\nHe was born in Kerangan Pinggai, a longhouse on the Paku river in the Saribas basin of the Saratok division of Sarawak.\n"}
{"id": "1105396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105396", "title": "Bustle", "text": "Bustle\n\nA bustle is a type of framework used to expand the fullness or support the drapery of the back of a woman's dress, occurring predominantly in the mid-to-late 19th century. The bustle in its creation owes much respect to the late Saartjie Baartman for the planting of the vision of this design. \nBustles were worn under the skirt in the back, just below the waist, to keep the skirt from dragging. Heavy fabric tended to pull the back of a skirt down and flatten it. Thus, a woman's petticoated or crinolined skirt would lose its shape during everyday wear (from merely sitting down or moving about). The word \"bustle\" has become synonymous with the fashion to which the bustle was integral.\n\nAs the fashion for crinolines wore on, their shape changed. Instead of the large bell-like silhouette previously in vogue, they began to flatten out at the front and sides, creating more fullness at the back of the skirts. One type of crinoline, the crinolette, created a shape very similar to the one produced by a bustle. The excess skirt fabric created by this alteration in shape was looped around to the back, again creating increased fullness\n\nThe bustle later developed into a feature of fashion on its own after the overskirt of the late 1860s was draped up toward the back and some kind of support was needed for the new draped shape. Fullness of some sort was still considered necessary to make the waist look smaller and the bustle eventually replaced the crinoline completely. The bustle was worn in different shapes for most of the 1870s and 1880s, with a short period of non-bustled, flat-backed dresses from 1878 to 1882.\n\nIn the early stages of the fashion for the bustle, the fullness to the back of the skirts was carried quite low and often fanned out to create a train. The transition from the voluminous crinoline enhanced skirts of the 1850s and 1860s can be seen in the loops and gathers of fabric and trimmings worn during this period. The bustle later evolved into a much more pronounced humped shape on the back of the skirt immediately below the waist, with the fabric of the skirts falling quite sharply to the floor, changing the shape of the silhouette.\n\nThe bustle reappeared in late 1881, and was exaggerated to become a major fashion feature in the mid and late 1880s, in 1885 reaching preposterous proportions to modern eyes, as used in the play \"Arms and the Man\" by George Bernard Shaw. The fashion for large bustles ended in 1889.\n\nThe bustle then survived into the 1890s and early 20th century as a skirt support was still needed and the stylish shape dictated a curve in the back of the skirt to balance the curve of the bust in front. The bustle had completely disappeared by 1905, as the long corset of the early 20th century was now successful in shaping the body to protrude behind.\n\nBustles and bustle gowns are rarely worn in contemporary society. Notable exceptions occur in the realm of haute couture, bridal fashion and Lolita Fashion. A dress in the bustle style may be worn as a costume. For example, in 1993 Eiko Ishioka won an Academy Award for her costume designs from \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\". The film features several extravagant bustle gowns created for female leads Winona Ryder and Sadie Frost. (though the film states it is 1897, a time when the large bustles depicted would have disappeared years ago. Films like \"The Bostonians\", \"Topsy Turvy\" or \"Age of Innocence\" depict a more realistic fashion)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2679275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679275", "title": "Caledon Bay crisis", "text": "Caledon Bay crisis\n\nThe Caledon Bay crisis refers to a series of killings at Caledon Bay in the Northern Territory of Australia during 1932–34. These events are widely seen as a turning point in relations between indigenous and non-indigenous Australians.\n\nIn 1932, five Japanese trepang fishers were killed by Aboriginals in the Caledon Bay area of northeast Arnhem Land. In another incident on Woodah Island, two white men named Fagan and Traynor were killed. A policeman investigating the deaths, Constable Albert McColl, was subsequently also killed by Yolngu. McColl had handcuffed a Yolngu woman as part of a plan to catch Dhakiyarr (also known as Takiar, Tuckiar and Takiara) but was killed by a spear through the heart while being led by the woman to where she had told him Dhakiyarr was camping.\n\nThe killings triggered panic in Darwin, capital of the Northern Territory, generating fears that Aborigines — the majority of the population in the Territory at the time — might stage an uprising. A punitive expedition was proposed by police to \"teach the blacks a lesson\". (In 1928, during a previous punitive expedition in the Northern Territory, police had killed up to 110 Aboriginal men, women and children; an event known as the Coniston massacre.)\n\nMany feared another such slaughter, and a party from the Church Missionary Society travelled to Arnhem Land and persuaded Dhakiyarr and three other men, who were sons of a Yolngu elder, Wonggu, to return to Darwin with them for trial. In Darwin, to the horror of the missionaries, Dhakiyarr was sentenced to death by hanging, and the three other men were sentenced to twenty years hard labour. On appeal to the High Court of Australia, Dhakiyarr’s sentence was quashed, and he was released from jail, but disappeared. Rumours suggested he had been killed by police.\n\nThe resulting crisis threatened to bring about even more bloodshed. To defuse the situation, a young anthropologist, Donald Thomson, offered to investigate the causes of the conflict. He travelled to Arnhem Land, on a mission that many said would be suicidal, and got to know and understand the people who lived there. After a seven months’ investigation, he persuaded the Federal Government to free the three men convicted of the killings and returned with them to their own country, living for over a year with their people, documenting their culture.\n\nHe formed a strong bond with the Yolngu people, and in 1941 he persuaded the Army to establish a special reconnaissance force of Yolngu men known as the Northern Territory Special Reconnaissance Unit, including Wonggu and his sons, to help repel Japanese raids on the northern coastline of Australia.\n\nThe historian Henry Reynolds has suggested that the Caledon Bay crisis \"was a decisive moment in the history of Aboriginal-European relations. The High Court condemned frontier justice, the punitive expedition did not ride into Yolngu country and there had been an unprecedented outburst of public sentiment demanding a new deal for Indigenous Australians.\"\n\nOn 17 September 1932, five Japanese fishermen were killed by aboriginals at Caledon Bay; one escaped. \n\nThere had been killings of Japanese fishermen in 1921 and 1926.\nOn 1 August 1933, a group of police, led by Mounted Constable Ted Morey and including Albert McColl (1902-33), were trying to track down aboriginal people they believed were involved in the killings of the Japanese. \n\nThey came across a group of aboriginal women. McColl and the women became separated from the others. The women included Djaparri, a wife of Dhakiyarr, a Yolungu elder. He attempted to contact his wife, McColl shot at him and misfired; Dhakiyarr threw a spear at McColl, killing him.\n\nVarious motives for the murder have been suggested, including McColl having sexual relations with Djaparri, and Dhakiyarr covering up the murders of William Fagan and Frank Traynor. \nIn September 1933 it was reported two men, Fagan and Traynor, had disappeared.\nDhakiyarr was arrested, charged with murder and sentenced to death. The trial was full of numerous irregularities.\n\nHe appealed to the High Court which overturned the sentence. \n\nDhakiyarr was freed and taken to Kahlin compound. He was never seen again.\n\n"}
{"id": "3182975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3182975", "title": "Casa Na Bolom", "text": "Casa Na Bolom\n\nNa Bolom was the home of archeologist Frans Blom and his wife, Gertrude Duby Blom, the documentary photographer, journalist, environmental pioneer, and jungle adverturer. It is in San Cristóbal de las Casas, Chiapas, Mexico and today, Na Bolom operates as a hotel, museum, and research center run by Asociación Cultural Na Bolom, a non-profit organization dedicated to the protection of the Lacandon Maya and the preservation of the Chiapas rain forest.\n\nA Danish archeologist who had taught at Tulane, Frans Blom was one of the first to excavate Palenque, a Mayan city about 150 km east of San Cristóbal de las Casas. It was in the jungle that Frans Blom met his wife, Gertrude Duby, a Swiss German journalist who had fought in the resistance of WWII and had come to Chiapas to begin a new life. Working on behalf of the Mexican government, Trudi Duby was photographing the legendary Lacandon Maya, the only Maya never conquered or converted by the Spanish. From then on, La Selva Lacandona rain forest was the common denominator in the professional and personal lives of Frans and Trudi Blom.\n\nIn 1950 with a small inheritance from Frans' mother, the Bloms purchased a monastery in ruin on the outskirts of San Cristóbal de las Casas. They rebuilt it around the original interior patio and named their new home Na Bolom, which means House of the Jaguar in a combination of Spanish and Mayan. From the beginning, Frans Blom's dream was that Na Bolom would function as a cultural, social, and academic center. His personal library with its exceptional collection of books on Mayan culture was open to the public. His Mayan artifacts were on display, as were the documentary photographs of Trudi Blom. In order to raise funds for their jungle expeditions, they took in guests who dined at the great long table of the Na Bolom dining room. These guests at breakfast and dinner included tourists, local residents, and archeologists working in the area, and Frans was proud that at any meal there was always conversation in at least three languages. Na Bolom evolved into a small hotel, attracting guests as notable as Henry Kissinger and Diego Rivera. However, free rooms were always kept open for Lacandon Maya who came to San Cristóbal for medical reasons.\n\nIn the 1970s Trudi Blom became an environmental activist, gravely concerned about the destruction of the jungle she loved. In 1975 she expanded Na Bolom's beautiful walled gardens to include El Vivero, a tree nursery, which today still supplies free trees for reforestation in Chiapas.\n\nWhile Na Bolom was the dream of Frans Blom, the day-to-day responsibility of running it fell to Trudi. For forty years, she struggled financially and emotionally; spending too much time fundraising, writing articles,and managing employees, many of whom were young volunteers from around the world, and not enough time in the jungle she loved. In the late 1980s, encouraged by concerned Chiapas citizens who valued her work and who wanted to protect the future of Na Bolom, Trudi formed the Asociación Cultural Na Bolom A.C., whose Board of Directors manages Na Bolom today.\n\nNa Bolom is still open to the public as a museum, hotel and restaurant. Volunteers are still welcome, working on projects with the library, translation of materials, and diffusion from information (money from guests goes towards various community projects in the jungle). Na Bolom has struggled to transition from the vision once held by Trudi Blom, into a functioning cultural institution in present day. It is difficult to maintain the various cultural programs that are fundamental to the original mission of Na Bolom, and funders and donations are sorely needed.\n\nToday, guests still come and conversation still flows in many languages at the long table of Casa Na Bolom. Mayan Indians sell their tapestries in the shaded patio. The garden pathways are lined with the mescal bottles Trudi blamed for Frans' death. The Lacandon still come to stay. The Bloms' adopted daughter, Dona Betty, is in charge of the kitchen. Their adopted Lancandon son, Kayum, often stays at Na Bolom with his family. The Asociación Cultural Na Bolom A.C. perpetuates the work of Frans and Trudi Blom, sponsoring a newsletter, art shows, concerts, exhibits, and other events and projects dedicated to the Lacandon Maya and the Selva Lacandona.\n\nA collection of 14,000 negatives taken by self-taught photographer Marcey Jacobson, documenting daily life in the area in photos taken primarily from the 1960s through the 1980s, will become part of the museum's collection following her death in 2009. Seventy-five of these images were included in the 2001 book \"The Burden of Time / El Cargo del Tiempo\".\n\nThe name \"Casa Na Bolom\" comes from the Mayan word for jaguar, \"bolom.\" The Bloms chose this name as a play on their own name, Blom. In the jungle, Frans Blom was often known by the nickname, \"Pancho Bolom\", a great compliment comparing him favorably to the sacred jaguar. An ancient stone jaguar from a Mayan frieze (at right) installed by Frans marks the front door of Casa Na Bolom, \"House of the Jaguar\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2809606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2809606", "title": "Contention of the bards", "text": "Contention of the bards\n\nThe Contention of the bards (in Irish, \"Iomarbhágh na bhFileadh\") was a literary controversy of early 17th century Gaelic Ireland, lasting from 1616 to 1624, probably peaking in 1617. The principal bardic poets of the country wrote polemical verses against each other and in support of their respective patrons.\n\nThere were 30 contributions to the Contention, which took the form of a bitter debate over the relative merits of the two halves of Ireland: the north, dominated by the Eremonian descendants of the Milesians, and the south, dominated by the Eberian descendants.\n\nThe verses were first published in print in two volumes produced by the Irish Texts Society in 1918 and 1920, edited by Lambert McKenna.\n\nThe Contention took place in the context of the settlement of the country following on the Tudor conquest of Ireland, when full domination by Stuart royal authority had led to the Flight of the Earls (1607) and the Plantation of Ulster (1610).\n\nThe occasion for the Contention was a dispute over the allegiance of the Earl of Thomond, a Gaelic nobleman of the ancient O'Brien clan (or sept), unusually for the time, the earl was a Protestant and loyal to the new dispensation. The spark came in 1616, after the final annexation of the modern County Clare (containing part of the ancient kingdom of Thomond) to the Eberian province of Munster (when the Earl of Thomond was appointed president of the province) and the death in exile of the last great Eremonian, Hugh O'Neill.\n\nFor centuries before 1616, the bards had been sponsored by the Irish Gaelic dynasties and confirmed their paternal lineages so they had a political as well as cultural impact.\n\nIn 1616 the Earl of Thomond's bard, Tadhg Mac Dáire Mac Bruaideadha, wrote verses attacking the semi-legendary bard Torna Éigeas on account of historical inaccuracies in his work and his partiality to the northern half of Ireland and the Eremonian branches of the Gael. In effect, Tadhg's verses celebrated the greatness of the Eberian septs of the southern half of Ireland and their ascendancy over the North; he even included his patron's Norman lineage as worthy of the race of Ébhear.\n\nThis provoked verses in response from other court bards, notably, Lughaidh Ó Cléirigh, in which abstruse points of poetic etiquette and the respective merits of the two halves of Ireland were vehemently argued. In extolling his own side, Lughaidh emphasised the historical defence of Tara, rather than the internecine struggle for the high-kingship of Ireland; Tadhg's response referred to the achievements of his patron's ancestor, Brian Boru, and pooh-poohed the former martial feats of the Eremonians as consisting merely of battles among themselves; the northern poets (whose allegiance lay with the exiled Ulster princes) countered with the accusation that Tadhg was betraying the bardic profession in his failure to comprehend the truth of the noble history of the Gael.\n\nSome of the participants in the Contention mocked the principal debate between Tadhg and Lughaidh; for example, Ó Heffernan used the fable of a cat and a fox (Eremonians and Eberians) that were bickering over a fat piece of meat (Ireland) when a wolf came along and snatched it all.\n\nIn June 1617, Tadhg had suggested in a letter to Lúghaidh and the northern poets that a decisive face-to-face poetic disputation be convened in order to resolve the Contention. It is not known if the suggestion was acted upon, but it appears to have marked the moment of greatest controversy. The Contention came to a head in a whirl of extreme sarcasm from the poet Mac Artúir, who defended the bards' tradition in a novel, run-on free-form, which contrasted with the traditional form in which Tadhg wrote.\n\nThe poems of the Contention share a sense of national culture, but their political allegiance is clan-centred. It was a period of decline for the court bards, and the fact that they were addressing each other suggests a realisation that their audience was losing its influence and that few within the new dispensation were paying heed to them.\n\nIn the course of the exchange, the theme of North-South rivalry was developed to include a debate about the struggle between tradition and iconoclasm. That allowed the poets to vent their bitterness at the late conquest and colonisation of the country and at the collapse of the political order upon which they depended.\n\nThroughout the Contention, each side had eagerly and jealously claimed James I of Ireland as a descendant in its Milesian lineage (he being descended from Marjorie Bruce whose ancestors included the Gaelic kings of Scotland such as Kenneth McAlpine). His crown authority was precisely the instrument by which the traditional Gaelic order was being destroyed in Ireland. The Ireland that the poems traced in their lore was past, and it seems that the bards were incapable of adapting their ways. The Contention proved to be the last flourish of \"Dán Díreach\": within decades the great school metres had been abandoned in favour of the looser \"Amhrán\" or \"Aisling\" and the esteem in which the bards had been held in Gaelic Ireland was never regained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53164092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53164092", "title": "Ebenezer Henderson (writer)", "text": "Ebenezer Henderson (writer)\n\nEbenezer Henderson (25 February 1809 – 2 November 1879) was a Scottish historian and science writer. His major work was \"The Annals of Dunfermline\".\n\nHenderson was born in Dunfermline on 25 February 1809; he was ninth of ten children of John Henderson, a watch and clock maker, and his wife Janet. His uncle was the missionary Ebenezer Henderson. He learned his father's business, but was particularly interested in scientific pursuits, producing by 1827 an orrery and an astronomical clock.\n\nBetween 1829 and 1863 he lived in England, mainly in Liverpool and London. His nominal post at first was clerk and assistant to his brother, a tanner in St Helens, Merseyside, but for a period he was curator of the Liverpool Astronomical Institution and Observatory, where he also lectured. Henderson wrote in popular science journals, and continued his astronomical studies, becoming a member of thirteen scientific societies in England. On 9 September 1839 he married Betsy Coldstream Brody.\n\nIn 1850 he was highly commended by George Biddell Airy, François Arago and others for a mechanism designed to show and check sidereal time. He devoted much time on the archaeological and historical notes that ultimately developed into \"The Annals of Dunfermline\". In 1856 he achieved the recognition of Dunfermline as a city. The freedom of Elgin was conferred upon Henderson in 1858, and the freedom of Dunfermline in 1859.\n\nHenderson became a member of five Scottish scientific societies, and wrote papers both for these and for English societies.\n\nIn 1866 he settled in Muckhart, at that time in Perthshire. In his latter years he was instrumental in restoring the old market cross of Dunfermline (1868), and \"Queen Margaret's Stone\", on the Dunfermline and Queensferry road, for which he wrote the inscription.\n\nHenderson died in Muckhart on 2 November 1879. He had no children.\n\nBesides smaller works, Henderson published\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "57805658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57805658", "title": "Elvira Roca Barea", "text": "Elvira Roca Barea\n\nMaría Elvira Roca Barea is a Spanish historian and philologist, specialized in the literature of the middle ages and early modern Europe.\n\nBorn in El Borge, Málaga in 1966, she graduated in Spanish Philology and obtained a master's degree in Medieval Literature. She has worked for the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), and lectured at Harvard University in the United States.\nHer research work has primarily focused on the Spanish Black Legend.\nShe is the author of several scholarly publications regarding, mainly, rhetoric and the construction of images and discourses through theatre and literature.\n\nHer most recent publication, the peer-reviewed book \"Imperofobia y leyenda negra: Roma, Rusia, Estados Unidos y el Imperio español\" (Empire-phobia and Black Legend: Rome, Russia, United States and the Spanish Empire) has become a bestseller.\nRoca Barea coins the term \"empire-phobia\" to refer to a characteristic, repetitive process of demonization through distortion and magnification that all multi-cultural empires suffer by neighboring nations, given certain circumstances, and that follows a consistent pattern. She argues that the Spanish Black Legend is not a unique phenomenon, but a particularly persistent case of this broader phenomenon, which also affected other empires like ancient Rome and Ottoman Turkey, and is now affecting the modern United States, especially in the Islamic world.\n\nIn her book she offers a definition of both \"empire\" and \"black legend\". She then shows the common elements and strategies shared by this discourse across nations and times, by deconstructing and exposing the similarities between the anti-American, anti-Russian, anti-Roman and anti-Spanish propaganda produced by their respective contemporaries, as well as the similarities in how the empires responded—or rather, did not respond.\nThis book has seen 18 editions in Spanish but has still to be translated to English.\n\nHistorian Miguel Martínez, from the University of Chicago, has criticized Elvira Roca's \"Imperiofobia\" arguing that while it is well documented it also contains inaccuracies and presents ideological bias. Martínez objects that Roca systematically omits relevant data contradicting her vision of the Spanish Empire as lenient and without conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1890743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1890743", "title": "Fall of Tenochtitlan", "text": "Fall of Tenochtitlan\n\nThe Siege of Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec Empire, was a decisive event in the Spanish conquest of Mexico. It occurred in 1521 following extensive manipulation of local factions and exploitation of preexisting divisions by Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés, who was aided by the support of his indigenous allies and his interpreter and companion La Malinche.\n\nAlthough numerous battles were fought between the Aztec Empire and the Spanish-led coalition, which was itself composed primarily of indigenous (mostly Tlaxcaltec) personnel, it was the siege of Tenochtitlan—its outcome probably largely determined by the effects of a smallpox epidemic (which devastated the Aztec population and dealt a severe blow to the Aztec leadership while leaving an immune Spanish leadership intact)—that directly led to the downfall of the Aztec civilization and marked the end of the first phase of the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire.\n\nThe conquest of Mexico was a critical stage in the Spanish colonization of the Americas. Ultimately, Spain conquered Mexico and thereby gained substantial access to the Pacific Ocean, which meant that the Spanish Empire could finally achieve its original oceanic goal of reaching the Asian markets.\n\nIn April 1519 Hernándo Cortés, an ambitious nobleman recently landed in Cuba, and the leader of the third Spanish expedition to the coast of Mexico, landed as directed by the survivors of the previous two expeditions at San Juan de Ulua, a good harbour on Mexico's east coast, with 508 soldiers, 100 sailors, and 14 small cannon. Governor Velázquez, the Governor of Cuba, called for Cortés to lead an expedition into Mexico after favourable reports from two previous expeditions to Yucatán caught the interest of the Spanish in Cuba. Under the pressure of his relatives who had a different leader in mind, Velázquez regretted his decision and revoked Cortés' mandate to lead the expedition even before Cortés left Cuba. Thus Cortés had to fight for his survival as a leader while still in Cuba; twice the messengers of Velásquez arrived to depose him, and twice they were spoken to with honeyed words and dissuaded from executing their mission. After Cortés sailed, Velázquez sent an army led by Pánfilo de Narváez to take him into custody.\n\nBut Cortés used the same legal tactic used by Governor Velázquez when he invaded Cuba years before: he created a local government and had himself elected as the magistrate, thus (in theory) making him responsible only to the King of Spain. Cortés followed this tactic when he and his men established the city of \"Villa Rica de la Vera Cruz\", also known as Veracruz, seven miles from the harbour of San Juan de Ulua. An inquiry into Cortés' action was conducted in Spain in 1529 and no action was taken against him.\n\nCortés chanced to land at the borders of Cempoala, a recently Aztec-subdued vassal state with many grievances against them. Coming into contact with a number of polities who resented Aztec rule, Cortés claimed he has arrived on the orders of his Emperor to put things in order, abolish human sacrifices, teach the locals the true faith and \"stop them from robbing each other\", and was successful in enforcing excellent behaviour of his army when among potential allies. Cortés clashed with some of these polities, among them the Totonacs and Tlaxcalans. The latter gave him two good day battles and one night battle, and kept up a strong defense, holding off his army on a hilltop for two weeks. His numerically inferior force finally triumphed when the minds of Tlaxcalans opened up to consideration of his ceaseless offers of peace, notably Xicotencatl the Elder and his wish to form an alliance with the Spaniards against the Aztecs which was the proffered aim of Cortés as well.\n\nIt once was widely believed that the Aztecs first thought Cortés was Quetzalcoatl, a mythical god prophesied to return to Mexico—coincidentally in the same year Cortés landed and from the same direction he came. This is now believed to be an invention of the conquerors, and perhaps natives who wished to rationalize the actions of the Aztec \"tlatoani\", Moctezuma II. Most scholars agree that the Aztecs, especially the inner circle around Moctezuma, were well convinced that Cortés was not a god in any shape or form. Messages between Cortés and Moctezuma, however, frequently allude to the legend, which was widely known across the Aztec dominions to both Aztecs and their subjects, and strongly influenced them, as Bernal Diaz del Castillo repeatedly mentions.\n\nMoctezuma sent a group of noblemen and other emissaries to meet Cortés at Quauhtechcac. These emissaries brought golden jewelry as a gift, which greatly pleased the Spaniards. According to the Florentine Codex, Lib. 12, f.6r., Moctezuma also ordered that his messengers carry the highly symbolic \"penacho\" (headdress) of Quetzalcoatl de Tula to Cortés and place it on his person. As news about the strangers reached the capital city, Moctezuma became increasingly fearful and considered fleeing the city but resigned himself to what he considered to be the fate of his people.\n\nCortés continued on his march towards Tenochtitlan. Before entering the city, on November 8, 1519, Cortés and his troops prepared themselves for battle, armoring themselves and their horses, and arranging themselves in proper military rank. Four horsemen were at the lead of the procession. Behind these horsemen were five more contingents: foot soldiers with iron swords and wooden or leather shields; horsemen in cuirasses, armed with iron lances, swords, and wooden shields; crossbowmen; more horsemen; soldiers armed with arquebuses; lastly, native peoples from Tlaxcalan, Tliliuhquitepec, and Huexotzinco. The indigenous soldiers wore cotton armor and were armed with shields and crossbows; many carried provisions in baskets or bundles while others escorted the cannons on wooden carts.\n\nCortés' army entered the city on the flower-covered causeway from Iztapalapa, associated with the god Quetzalcoatl. Cortés was amicably received by Moctezuma. The captive woman Malinalli Tenépal, also known as Doña Marina, translated from Nahuatl to Chontal Maya; the Spaniard Gerónimo de Aguilar translated from Chontal Maya to Spanish.\n\nMoctezuma was soon taken hostage on November 14, 1519, as a safety measure by the vastly outnumbered Spanish. Another reason for his sudden capture was news that Moctezuma received from one of his messengers. It was reported to Moctezuma that at least eight hundred more Spaniards in thirteen great ships had arrived on the coast. Moctezuma received this information a few days before Cortés did. Cortés had been communicating to the crown that he had the entire situation under control and was practically running the city of Tenochtitlan. With the vast new Spanish ships forces on the horizon, sent by his enemy Diego Velasquez, they could only revoke his commission and recall him, thus ending his campaign in Mexico and probably dooming the Spanish attempt for a lightning conquest, as no other Spanish leader could wield authority as effectively both among the natives and the Spaniards. Therefore, Cortés made the decision to abruptly abduct the King; only with a knife to his throat could Cortés ensure his cooperation. According to all eyewitness accounts, Moctezuma initially refused to leave his palace but after a series of threats from and debates with the Spanish captains, and assurances from Doña Marina, he agreed to move to the Axayáctal palace with his retinue. The first captain assigned to guard him was Pedro de Alvarado. Other Aztec lords were also detained by the Spanish, when they started questioning their captive King's authority. The palace was surrounded by over 100 Spanish soldiers in order to prevent any attempt at rescue.\n\nIt is uncertain why Moctezuma cooperated so readily with the Spaniards. It is possible he feared losing his life or political power; however, one of the effective threats wielded by Cortés was the destruction of his beautiful city in the case of fighting between Spaniards and Aztecs (which ultimately came to pass, of course). This Moctezuma at all costs wanted to avoid, vacillating and deferring the rupture until this policy claimed his life. It was clear from the beginning that he was ambivalent about who Cortés and his men really were, whether they be gods, descendants of a god, ambassadors from a greater king, or just barbaric invaders. From the perspective of the tlatoani, the Spaniards might have been assigned some decisive role by fate. It could also have been a tactical move: Moctezuma may have wanted to gather more information on the Spaniards, or to wait for the end of the agricultural season and strike at the beginning of the war season. However, he did not carry out either of these actions even though high-ranking military leaders such as his brother Cuitlahuac and nephew Cacamatzin urged him to do so.\n\nWith Moctezuma captive, Cortés did not need to worry about being cut off from supplies or being attacked, although some of his captains had such concerns. He also assumed that he could control the Aztecs through Moctezuma. However, Cortés had little knowledge of the ruling system of the Aztecs; Moctezuma was not all-powerful as Cortés imagined. Being appointed to and maintaining the position of tlatoani was based on the ability to rule decisively; he could be replaced by another noble if he failed to do so. At any sign of weakness, Aztec nobles within Tenochtitlan and in other Aztec tributaries were liable to rebel. As Moctezuma complied with orders issued by Cortés, such as commanding tribute to be gathered and given to the Spaniards, his authority was slipping, and quickly his people began to turn against him.\n\nCortés and his army were permitted to stay in the Palace of Axayacatl, and tensions continued to grow. While the Spaniards were in Tenochtitlan, Velázquez assembled a force of nineteen ships, more than 1400 soldiers with twenty cannons, eighty horsemen, one-hundred and twenty crossbowmen, and eighty arquebusiers under the command of Pánfilo de Narváez to capture Cortés and return him to Cuba. Velázquez felt that Cortés had exceeded his authority, and had been aware of Cortés's misconduct for nearly a year. He had to wait for favorable winds, though, and was unable to send any forces until spring. Narváez’s troops landed at San Juan de Ulúa on the Mexican coast around April 20, 1520.\n\nAfter Cortés became aware of their arrival, he left Pedro de Alvarado in charge in Tenochtitlan with 80 soldiers, and brought all his forces (about two hundred and forty men) by quick marches to Narváez’s camp in Cempohuallan on May 27. Several negotiations between the two Spaniards took place on the way, in which Cortés was able to persuade many persons of weight in Narváez’s camp to incline to his side. Cortés attacked Narváez’s camp late at night; his men, much superior in experience and organization, wounded Narváez in the eye and took him as a hostage quickly; also taken were his principal adherents, de Salvatierra and Diego Velasquez (the nephew of the Governor of Cuba). Evidence suggests that the two were in the midst of negotiations at the time, and Narváez was not expecting an attack. Cortés then completed winning over Narváez’s captains with promises of the vast wealth in Tenochtitlan, inducing them to follow him back to the Aztec capital. Narváez was imprisoned in Vera Cruz, and his army was integrated into Cortés’s forces.\n\nDuring Cortés’s absence, Pedro de Alvarado was left in command in Tenochtitlan with 80 soldiers.\n\nAt this time, the Aztecs began to prepare for the annual festival of Toxcatl in early May, in honor of Tezcatlipoca, otherwise known as the Smoking Mirror or the Omnipotent Power. They honored this god during the onset of the dry season so that the god would fill dry streambeds and cause rain to fall on crops. Moctezuma secured the consent of Cortés to hold the festival, and again confirmed permission with Alvarado.\n\nAlvarado agreed to allow the festival on the condition that there would be no human sacrifice, but the Toxcatl festival had featured human sacrifice as the main part of its climactic rituals. The sacrifice involved the killing of a young man who had been impersonating the god Toxcatl deity for a full year. Thus, prohibiting human sacrifice during this festival was an untenable proposition for the Aztecs.\n\nBefore the festival, Alvarado encountered a group of women building a statue of Huitzilopochtli and the image unsettled him, and he became suspicious about the eventuality of human sacrifice. He tortured priests and nobles and discovered that the Aztecs were planning a revolt. Unable to assert control over events, he sequestered Moctezuma and increased the guards around the tlatoani.\n\nBy the day of the festival, the Aztecs had gathered on the Patio of Dances. Alvarado had sixty of his men as well as many of his Tlaxcalan allies into positions around the patio. The Aztecs initiated the Serpent Dance. The euphoric dancing as well as the accompanying flute and drum playing disturbed Alvarado about the potential for revolt. He ordered the gates closed and initiated the killing of many thousands of Aztec nobles, warriors and priests.\n\nAlvarado, the conquistadors and the Tlaxcalans retreated to their base in the Palace of Axayacatl and secured the entrances. Alvarado ordered his men to shoot their cannons, crossbows and arquebuses into the gathering crowd. The result either preempted or triggered the Aztec revolt, which was, however, inevitable from the moment of Moctezuma's capture and was accelerated by the split of the Spanish forces. Alvarado forced Moctezuma to appeal to the crowd outside the Palace and this appeal temporarily calmed them.\n\nThe massacre had the result of resolutely turning all the Aztecs against the Spanish and completely undermining Moctezuma's authority.\n\nAlvarado sent for word to Cortés of the events, and Cortés hurried back to Tenochtitlan on June 24 with 1,300 soldiers, 96 horses, 80 crossbowmen, and 80 arquebusiers. Cortés also came with 2,000 Tlaxcalan warriors on the journey. Cortés entered the palace unscathed, as the hostilities have not started yet, although the Aztecs had probably planned to ambush him. The Aztecs had already stopped sending food and supplies to the Spaniards. They became suspicious and watched for people trying to sneak supplies to them; many innocent people were slaughtered because they were suspected of helping them. A few days after the great forces of Cortés got into Tenochtitlan, the roads were shut and the causeway bridges were raised. The Aztecs halted any Spanish attacks or attempts to leave the palace. Every Spanish soldier that was not killed was wounded.\n\nCortés failed to grasp the full extent of the situation, as the attack on the festival was the last straw for the Aztecs, who now were completely against Moctezuma and the Spanish. The military gains of the attack therefore had a serious political cost for Cortés. His new followers were greatly disturbed at the power of the Aztecs, and held Cortés to be a liar since nobody revered them and brought them food and gifts as Cortés had promised. \n\nCortés attempted to parley with the Aztecs, and after this failed he sent Moctezuma to tell his people to stop fighting. However, the Aztecs refused. The Spanish asserted that Moctezuma was stoned to death by his own people as he attempted to speak with them. Three stones hit him, one of them on the head, so cerebral hematoma is possible. Moctezuma refused all medical help as well as food, and died soon after the attack. The Aztecs later claimed that Moctezuma had been murdered by the Spanish. Two other local rulers were found strangled as well. Moctezuma’s younger brother Cuitláhuac, who had been ruler of Ixtlapalapan until then, was chosen as the Tlatoani.\n\nThe flight of the Spanish from Tenochtitlan was a crushing defeat for Cortés that was just short of annihilation. It is still remembered as “La Noche Triste,” The Night of Sorrows. Popular tales say that Cortés wept under a tree the night of the massacre of his troops at the hands of the Aztecs.\n\nInitially, Cortés resolved to fight the Aztec troops opposed to him and win the city in direct conflict. This stemmed from three errors of judgment: \n\n1. Underestimation of the Aztecs. Cortés fought the Tabascans, the Cempoalans, the Tlaxcalans and found them strong opponents, but always prevailed. He has never fought an Aztec army before and did not expect such resolve and martial skill as he encountered - although all his previous foes warned that the Mexicans are the greatest warriors they have ever seen and cannot be withstood within their city.\n\n2. Overrating his forces. Since Cortés won all his battles in Mexico before this while at the head of much inferior forces, being in charge of a nearly full Spanish tercio must have made him feel invincible. In fact, the only serviceable portion of his army were his old followers with great experience of Mexican warfare, who were by this time severely whittled down by wounds and disease. The newly-arrived Narvaéz's men did not have experience in local fighting and were worth much less in combat - and eventually perished in much greater numbers than the veterans.\n\n3. Unprepared for enemy tactics. The Aztecs have obviously fought for the lake cities many time before and their tactics were excellent - the use of canoes, the use of flat roofs with prepared missiles, dropping down into the lake when cornered, and destroying bridges. Cavalry could not operate in these conditions and control of the water was crucial, which Cortés did not realize at first.\n\nWith this mindset, Cortés launched a great attack directly at the chief temple of the city, the Cue of Huichilopotzli. In spite of determined opposition, the Spanish push won to the top of the temple's 114 steps, but at a great loss. Cortés aimed at routing the Aztecs and by holding all the cards - both Moctezuma and the great temple - being able to offer peace once again, which would leave him effectively Lord of Mexico. However, the Spanish attack encountered such fierce resistance and numerous fatalities among his men, that the plan fell apart of its own accord. The retreat to Spanish quarters was as hard as the attack, and part of their quarters were plundered in the meantime. The direct loss of nearly a hundred men dead and the fierce spirit of the Aztecs who refused to be cowed by his assent of the temple convinced Cortés that a night escape is now his only option for survival.\n\nThough a flight from the city would make Cortés appear weak before his indigenous allies, it was this or death for the Spanish forces. Cortés and his men were in the center of the city, and would most likely have to fight their way out no matter what direction they took. Cortés wanted to flee to Tlaxcala, so a path directly east would have been most favorable. Nevertheless, this would require hundreds of canoes to move all of Cortés’s people and supplies, which he was unable to procure in his position.\n\nCortés therefore had to choose among three land routes: north to Tlatelolco, which was the least dangerous path but required the longest trip through the city; south to Coyohuacan and Iztapalapa, two towns that would not welcome the Spanish; or west to Tlacopan, which required the shortest trip through Tenochtitlan, though they would not be welcome there either. Cortés decided on the west causeway to Tlacopan, needing the quickest route out of Tenochtitlan with all his provisions and people.\n\nHeavy rains and a moonless night provided some cover for the escaping Spanish. On that \"Sad Night,\" July 1, 1520, the Spanish forces exited the palace first with their indigenous allies close behind, bringing as much treasure as possible. Cortés had hoped to go undetected by muffling the horses’ hooves and carrying wooden boards to cross the canals.\nThe Spanish forces were able to pass through the first three canals, the Tecpantzinco, Tzapotlan, and Atenchicalco.\n\nHowever, they were discovered on the fourth canal at Mixcoatechialtitlan. One account says a woman fetching water saw them and alerted the city, another says it was a sentry. Some Aztecs set out in canoes, others by road to Nonchualco then Tlacopan to cut the Spanish off. The Aztecs attacked the fleeing Spanish on the Tlacopan causeway from canoes, shooting arrows at them. The Spanish fired their crossbows and arquebuses, but were unable to see their attackers or get into formation. Many Spaniards leaped into the water and drowned, weighed down by armor and booty.\n\nWhen faced with a gap in the causeway, Alvarado made the famous “leap of Alvarado” using a spear to get to the other side. Approximately a third of the Spaniards succeeding in reaching the mainland, while the remaining ones died in battle or were captured and later sacrificed on Aztec altars - these were reported to be mostly the followers of Narvaez, less experienced and more weighted down with gold, which was handed out freely before the escape.\n\nAfter crossing over the bridge, the surviving Spanish had little reprieve before the Aztecs appeared to attack and chase them towards Tlacopan. When they arrived at Tlacopan, a good number of Spaniards had been killed, as well as most of the indigenous warriors, and some of the horses; all of the cannons and most of the crossbows and other weapons were lost. In all battles with main Aztec forces after that, Spaniards noted their lost arms being used against them. The Spanish finally found refuge in Otancalpolco, where they were aided by the Teocalhueyacans. The morning after, the Aztecs returned to recover the spoils from the canals.\n\nTo reach Tlaxcala, Cortés had to bring his troops around Lake Texcoco. Though the Spanish were under attack the entire trip, because Cortés took his troops through the northern towns, they were at an advantage. The northern valley was less populous, travel was difficult, and it was still the agricultural season, so the attacks on Cortés’s forces were not very heavy. As Cortés arrived in more densely inhabited areas east of the lake, the attacks were more forceful.\n\nBefore reaching Tlaxcala, the scanty Spanish forces arrived at the plain of Otumba Valley (Otompan), where they were met by a vast Aztec army intent on their destruction. The Aztecs intended to cut short the Spanish retreat from Tenochtitlan and annihilate them. Here, the Aztecs had made their own errors of judgement by underestimated the shock value of the Spanish caballeros because all they had seen was the horses traveling gingerly on the wet paved streets of Tenochtitlan. They had never seen them used in open battle on the plains. By marshalling on an open plain, they have also allowed experienced Spanish commanders to bring to bear their superior tactics, weaponry and the know-how of European warfare. \n\nDespite the overwhelming numbers of Aztecs and the generally poor condition of the Spanish survivors, Cortés snatched victory from the jaws of defeat when he spotted the Aztec commander in his ornate and colourful feather costume, and immediately charged him with several horsemen, killing the Aztec commander and most other leaders as they were clearly marked by their golden plumage and an easy target for a charge. The Tlaxcalan allies of the Spanish are mentioned as playing an important role in the battle, armed with Spanish swords and shields. The Spanish suffered some loss, but were eventually victorious over the Aztecs, who then retreated and were pursued by cavalry. \n\nWhen Cortés finally reached Tlaxcala five days after fleeing Tenochtitlan, he had lost over 860 Spanish soldiers, over a thousand Tlaxcalans, as well as Spanish women who had accompanied Narváez's troops. Cortés claimed only 15 Spaniards were lost along with 2,000 native allies. Cano, another primary source, gives 1150 Spaniards dead, though this figure was likely too high and might encompass the total loss from entering Mexico to arriving into Tlaxcala. Cortés' chaplain back in Spain, Francisco López de Gómara, estimated that 450 Spaniards and 4,000 allies had died. Other sources estimate that nearly half of the Spanish and almost all of the natives were killed or wounded.\n\nThe women survivors included Cortés's translator and lover La Malinche, María Estrada, and two of Moctezuma's daughters who had been given to Cortés, including the emperor's favorite and reportedly most beautiful daughter Tecuichpotzin (later Doña Isabel Moctezuma). A third daughter died, leaving behind her infant by Cortés, the mysterious second \"María\" named in his will.\n\nCuitláhuac had been elected as the emperor immediately following Moctezuma’s death. It was necessary for him to prove his power and authority to keep the tributaries from revolting. Usually, the new king would take his army on a campaign before coronation; this demonstration would solidify necessary ties. However, Cuitláhuac was not in a position to do this, as it was not yet war season; therefore, allegiance to the Spanish seemed to be an option for many tributaries. The Aztec empire was very susceptible to division: most of the tributary states were divided internally, and their loyalty to the Aztecs was based either on their own interests or fear of punishment.\n\nIt was necessary for Cortés to rebuild his alliances after his escape from Tenochtitlan before he could try again to take the city. He started with the Tlaxcalans. Tlaxcala was an autonomous state, and a fierce enemy of the Aztecs. Another strong motivation to join forces with the Spanish was that Tlaxcala was encircled by Aztec tributaries. The Tlaxcalans could have crushed the Spaniards at this point or turned them over to the Aztecs. In fact, the Aztecs sent emissaries promising peace and prosperity if they would do just that. The Tlaxcalan leaders rebuffed the overtures of the Aztec emissaries, deciding to continue their friendship with Cortés.\n\nCortés managed to negotiate an alliance; however, the Tlaxcalans required heavy concessions from Cortés for their continued support, which he was to provide after they defeated the Aztecs. They expected the Spanish to pay for their supplies, to have the city of Cholula, an equal share of any of the spoils, the right to build a citadel in Tenochtitlan, and finally, to be exempted from any future tribute. Cortés was willing to promise anything in the name of the King of Spain, and agreed to their demands. The Spanish did complain about having to pay for their food and water with their gold and other jewels with which they had escaped Tenochtitlan. The Spanish authorities would later disown this treaty with the Tlaxcalans after the fall of Tenochtitlan.\n\nCortés needed to gain other new allies as well. If the Spaniards were able to prove they could protect their new allies from the possibility of Aztec retribution, changing sides would not be too difficult for other tributaries. After Cortés’ forces managed to defeat the smaller armies of some Aztec tributary states, Tepeyac, and later, Yauhtepec and Cuauhnahuac were easily won over. Cortés also used political maneuvering to assure the allegiance of other states, such as Tetzcoco. In addition, Cortés replaced kings with those who he knew would be loyal to him. Cortés now controlled many major towns, which simultaneously bolstered Cortés’s forces while weakening the Aztecs.\n\nThough the largest group of indigenous allies were Tlaxcalans, the Huexotzinco, Atlixco, Tliliuhqui-Tepecs, Tetzcocans, Chalca, Alcohua and Tepanecs were all important allies as well, and had all been previously subjugated by the Aztecs.\n\nEven the former Triple Alliance member, city of Tetzcoco (or Texcoco) became a Spanish ally. As the rebellion attempt led by the Tetzcocan Tlatoani, Cacamatzin, in times of Moctezuma's reclusion was conjured by the Spanish, Cortés named one of Cacamatzin's brothers as new tlatoani. He was Ixtlilxóchitl II, who had disagreed with his brother and always proved friendly to the Spanish. Later, Cortés also occupied the city as base for the construction of brigantines. However, one faction of Tetzcocan warriors remained loyal to the Aztecs.\n\nCortés had to put down internal struggles among the Spanish troops as well. The remaining Spanish soldiers were somewhat divided; many wanted nothing more than to go home, or at the very least to return to Vera Cruz and wait for reinforcements. Cortés hurriedly quashed this faction, determined to finish what he had started. Not only had he staked everything he had or could borrow on this enterprise, he had completely compromised himself by defying his superior Velázquez. He knew that in defeat he would be considered a traitor to Spain, but that in success he would be its hero. So he argued, cajoled, bullied and coerced his troops, and they began preparing for the siege of Mexico. In this Cortés showed skill at exploiting the divisions within and between the Aztec states while hiding those of his own troops.\n\nWhile Cortés was rebuilding his alliances and garnering more supplies, a smallpox epidemic struck the natives of the Valley of Mexico, including Tenochtitlan. The disease was probably carried by a Spanish slave from Narváez’s forces, who had been abandoned in the capital during the Spanish flight. Smallpox played a crucial role in the Spanish success during the Siege of Tenochtitlan from 1519–1521, a fact not mentioned in some historical accounts. The disease broke out in Tenochtitlan in late October 1520. The epidemic lasted sixty days, ending by early December.\n\nIt was at this event where firsthand accounts were recorded in the Florentine Codex concerning the adverse effects of the smallpox epidemic of the Aztecs, which stated, “many died from this plague, and many others died of hunger. They could not get up and search for food, and everyone else was too sick to care for them, so they starved to death in their beds. By the time the danger was recognized, the plague was well established that nothing could halt it”. The smallpox epidemic caused not only infection to the Mexica peoples, but it weakened able bodied people who could no longer grow and harvest their crops, which in turn led to mass famine and death from malnutrition. While the population of Tenochtitlan was recovering, the disease continued to Chalco, a city on the southeast corner of Lake Texcoco that was formerly controlled by the Aztecs but now occupied by the Spanish.\n\nReproduction and population growth declined since people of child bearing age either had to fight off the Spanish invasion or died due to famine, malnutrition or other diseases. Diseases like smallpox could travel great distances and spread throughout large populations, which was the case with the Aztecs having lost approximately 50% of its population from smallpox and other diseases. The disease killed an estimated forty percent of the native population in the area within a year. The Aztecs codices give ample depictions of the disease's progression. It was known to them as the \"huey ahuizotl\" (great rash).\n\nCuitlahuac contracted the disease and died after ruling for eighty days. Though the disease also affected the Spanish-aligned forces somewhat, it had more dire consequences for the leadership on the side of the Aztecs, as they were much harder hit by the smallpox than the Spanish leaders, who were largely resistant to the disease.\n\nIt is often debated why the Aztecs took little action against the Spanish and their allies after they fled the city. One reason was that Tenochtitlan was certainly in a state of disorder: the smallpox disease ravaged the population, killing still more important leaders and nobles, and a new king, Cuauhtémoc, son of King Ahuitzotl, was placed on the throne in February 1521. The people were in the process of mourning the dead and rebuilding their damaged city. It is possible that the Aztecs truly believed that the Spanish were gone for good. In addition, Cortés astutely directed his forces in multiple directions in preparing his encirclement of the Aztec capital, and knew how to use the military initiative that he gained after the battle of Otumba. \n\nStaying within Tenochtitlan as a defensive tactic may have seemed like a reliable strategy at the time. This would allow them the largest possible army that would be close to its supplies, while affording them the mobility provided by the surrounding lake. Any Spanish assault would have to come through the causeways, where the Aztecs could easily attack them. As the only Aztec victory against the Spanish was won in the city using their peculiar urban warfare tactics, and as they counted on retaining control over the water, it seems natural that they wanted to risk their main army only to defend their capital. However, it would not be correct to infer that the Aztecs were passive observers of their fate - they did send numerous expeditions to aid their allies against Cortés at every point, with 10 to 20 thousand forces risked in every engagement, such as in Chalco and Chapultepec. They were driven back every time, and some of the native allies won their own victories over the Aztecs, as their dread of their invincible overlords faded with every success of Cortés. \n\nCortés’s overall plan was to trap and besiege the Aztecs within their capital. Cortés intended to do that primarily by increasing his power and mobility on the lake, while protecting \"his flanks while they marched up the causeway\", previously one of his main weaknesses. He ordered the construction of thirteen sloops (brigantines) in Tlaxcala, by his master shipbuilder, Martín López. Cortés continued to receive a steady stream of supplies from ships arriving at Vera Cruz, one ship from Spain loaded with \"arms and powder\", and two ships intended for Narváez. Cortés also received one hundred and fifty soldiers and twenty horses from the abandoned Panuco river settlement. A large source of succour for Cortés were the misguided expeditions by Francisco de Garay, the Governor of Jamaica, who kept sending ship after ship to aid his original Panuco venture long after it has been destroyed and abandoned; all of these ships and forces ended up reinforcing Cortés before the siege. \n\nCortés then decided to move his army to Tetzcoco, where he could assemble and launch the sloops in the creeks flowing into Lake Texcoco. With his main headquarters in Tetzcoco, he could stop his forces from being spread too thin around the lake, and there he could contact them where they needed. Xicotencatl the Elder provided Cortés with ten thousand plus Tlaxcalan warriors under the command of Chichimecatecle. Cortés departed Tlaxcala on the day after Christmas 1520. When his force arrived at the outskirts of Tetzcoco, he was met by seven chieftains stating their leader Coanacotzin begs \"for your friendship\". Cortés quickly replaced that leader with the son of Nezahualpilli, baptized as Don Hernando Cortés.\n\nAfter winning over Chalco and Tlamanalco, Cortés sent eight Mexican prisoners to Cuauhtemoc stating, \"all the towns in the neighborhood were now on our side, as well as the Tlaxcalans\". Cortés intended to blockade Mexico and then destroy it. Once Martin López and Chichimecatecle brought the logs and planks to Texcoco, the sloops were built quickly. Cuauhtemoc's forces were defeated four times in March 1521, around Chalco and Huaxtepec, and Cortés received another ship load of arms and men from the Emperor.\n\nOn 6 April 1521, Cortés met with the \"caciques\" around Chalco, and announced he would \"bring peace\" and blockade Mexico. He wanted all of their warriors ready the next day when he put thirteen sloops into the lake (misleadingly called \"launches\" in some translations). He was then joined at Chimaluacan by twenty thousand warriors from Chalco, Texcoco, Huejotzingo, and Tlaxcala. Cortés fought a major engagement with seventeen thousand of Cuauhtemoc's warriors at Xochimilco, before continuing his march northwestward. Cortés found Coyoacan, Tacuba, Atzcapotzalco, and Cuauhitlan deserted.\n\nReturning to Texcoco, which had been guarded by his Captain Gonzalo de Sandoval, Cortés was joined by many more men from Castile. Cortés then discovered a plot aimed at his murder, for which he had the main conspirator, Antonio de Villafana, hanged. Thereafter, Cortés had a personal guard of six soldiers, under the command of Antonio de Quiñones. The Spaniards also held their third auctioning of branded slaves, Mexican allies captured by Cortés, \"who had revolted after giving their obedience to His Majesty.\"\n\nCortés had 84 horsemen, 194 arbalesters and arquebusiers, plus 650 Spanish foot soldiers. He stationed 25 men on every sloop, 12 oarsmen, 12 crossbowmen and musketeers, and a captain. Each sloop had rigging, sails, oars, and spare oars. Additionally, Cortés had 20,000 warriors from Tlaxcala, Huexotzinco, and Cholula. The Tlaxcalans were led by Xicotencatl II and Chichimecatecle. Cortés was ready to start the blockade of Mexico after Corpus Christi (feast).\n\nCortés put Alvarado in command of 30 horsemen, 18 arbalesters and arquebusiers, 150 Spanish foot soldiers, and 8,000 Tlaxcalan allies, and sent him, accompanied by his brother Jorge de Alvarado, Gutierrez de Badajoz, and Andrés de Monjaraz, to secure Tacuba. Cristóbal de Olid took 30 horsemen, 20 arbalesters and arquebusiers, 175 foot soldiers, and 8,000 Tlaxcalan allies, accompanied by Andrés de Tapia, Francisco Verdugo, and Francisco de Lugo, and secured Coyohuacan. Gonzalo de Sandoval took 24 horsemen, 14 arquebusiers and arbalesters, 150 Spanish foot soldiers, and 8,000 warriors from Chalco and Huexotzinco, accompanied by Luis Marin and Pedro de Ircio, to secure Ixtlapalapan. Cortés commanded the 13 sloops. Cortés' forces took up these positions on May 22.\n\nThe forces under Alvarado and Olid marched first towards Chapultepec to disconnect the Aztecs from their water supply. There were springs there that supplied much of the city’s water by aqueduct; the rest of the city’s water was brought in by canoe. The two generals then tried to bring their forces over the causeway at Tlacopan, resulting in the Battle of Tlacopan. The Aztec forces managed to push back the Spanish and halt this assault on the capital with a determined and hard fought land and naval counterattack.\n\nCortés faced \"more than a thousand canoes\" after he launched his thirteen launches from Texcoco. Yet a \"favorable breeze sprang up\", enabling him to overturn many canoes and kill or capture many. After winning the First Battle on the Lake, Cortés camped with Olid's forces.\n\nThe Aztec canoe fleets worked well for attacking the Spanish because they allowed the Aztecs to surround the Spanish on both sides of the causeway. Cortés decided to make an opening in the causeway so that his brigantines could help defend his forces from both sides. He then distributed the launches amongst his attacking forces, four to Alvarado, six for Olid, and two to Sandoval on the Tepeaquilla causeway. After this move, the Aztecs could no longer attack from their canoes on the opposite side of the Spanish brigantines, and \"the fighting went very much in our favour\", according to Díaz.\n\nWith his brigantines, Cortés could also send forces and supplies to areas he previously could not, which put a kink in Cuauhtémoc's plan. To make it more difficult for the Spanish ships to aid the Spanish soldier's advance along the causeways, the Aztecs dug deep pits in shallow areas of the lakes, into which they hoped the Spaniards would stumble, and fixed concealed stakes into the lake bottom to impale the launches. The Spanish horses were also ineffective on the causeways.\n\nCortés was forced to adapt his plans again, as his initial land campaigns were ineffective. He had planned to attack on the causeways during the daytime and retreat to camp at night; however, the Aztecs moved in to occupy the abandoned bridges and barricades as soon as the Spanish forces left. Consequently, Cortés had his forces set up on the causeways at night to defend their positions. Cortés also sent orders to \"never on any account to leave a gap unblocked, and that all the horsemen were to sleep on the causeway with their horses saddled and bridled all night long.\" This allowed the Spanish to progress closer and closer towards the city.\n\nThe Spaniards prevented food and water from reaching Tenochtitlan along the three causeways. They limited the supplies reaching the city from the nine surrounding towns via canoe, by sending out two of their launches on nightly capture missions. However, the Aztecs were successful in setting an ambush with thirty of their pirogues in an area in which they had placed impaling stakes. They captured two Spanish launches, killing Captain de Portilla and Pedro Barba.\n\nAfter capturing two chieftains, Cortés learned of another Aztec plot to ambush his launches with forty pirogues. Cortés then organized a counter-ambush with six of his launches, which was successful, \"killing many warriors and taking many prisoners.\" Afterwards, the Aztec \"did not dare to lay any more ambuscades, or to bring in food and water as openly as before.\" Lakeside towns, including Iztapalapa, Churubusco, Culuacan, and Mixquic made peace with the Spaniards. The fighting in Tenochtitlan was described by the American historian Charles Robinson as \"desperate\" as both sides battled one another in the streets in a ferocious battle where no quarter was given nor asked for.\n\nCuauhtemoc then attacked all three Spanish camps simultaneously with his entire army on the feast day of St. John. On the Tacuba Causeway across Lake Texcoco connecting Tenochtitlan to the mainland along a street now known as \"Puente de Alvarado\" (Alvarado's Bridge) in Mexico City, Pedro de Alvarado made a mad cavalry charge across a gap in the Causeway. As Alvarado and his cavalry emerged on the other side of the gap with the infantry behind, Aztec canoes filled the gap. Pedro de Alvarado was wounded along with eight men in his camp. Alvarado escaped from the ambush, but five of his men were captured and taken off to the Great Temple to be sacrificed. Much to their horror, the Spanish from their positions could see their captured comrades being sacrificed on the Great Pyramid, which increased their hatred of the Aztecs. At the end of each day, the Spanish gave a prayer: \"Oh, thanks be to God that they did not carry me off today to be sacrificed.\"\n\nCortés then decided to push forward a simultaneous attack towards the Mexican market square. However, he neglected to fill in a channel as he advanced, and when the Aztec counter-attacked, Cortés was wounded and almost captured. Cristóbal de Olea and Cristóbal de Guzmán gave their lives for Cortés, and sixty-five Spanish soldiers were captured alive. Cuauhtemoc then had five of their heads thrown at Alvarado's camp, four thrown at Cortés' camp, six thrown at Sandoval's camp, while ten more were sacrificed to the Huitzilopochtli and Texcatlipoca idols.\n\nDíaz relates, \"...the dismal drum of Huichilobos sounded again...we saw our comrades who had been captured in Cortés' defeat being dragged up the steps to be sacrificed...cutting open their chests, drew out their palpitating hearts which they offered to the idols...the Indian butchers...cut off their arms and legs...then they ate their flesh with a sauce of peppers and tomatoes...throwing their trunks and entrails to the lions and tigers and serpents and snakes.\" Cuauhtemoc then \"sent the hands and feet of our soldiers, and the skin of their faces...to all the towns of our allies...\" The Aztec sacrificed a batch of Spanish prisoners each night for ten nights. The Aztec cast off the cooked limbs of their prisoners to the Tlaxcalans, shouting: \"Eat the flesh of these \"teules\" [\"Gods\"-a reference to the early belief that Spanish were gods] and of your brothers because we are sated with it\".\n\nThe Aztec continued to attack the Spaniards on the causeways, \"day and night\". The Spanish allies in the cities surrounding the lake lost many lives or \"went home wounded\", and \"half their canoes were destroyed\". Yet, \"they did not help the Aztec any more, for they loathed them.\" Yet, of the 24,000 allies, only 200 remained in the three Spanish camps, the rest deciding to return home.\nAhuaxpitzactzin (later baptized as Don Carlos), the brother of the Texcoco lord Don Fernando, remained in Cortés' camp with forty relatives and friends. The Huejotzinco Cacique remained in Sandoval's camp with fifty men. Alvarado's camp had Chichimecatecle, the two sons of Lorenzo de Vargas, and eighty Tlaxcalans. To maintain the advance, Cortés razed every neighborhood he captured, using the rubble to fill up canals and gaps in the causeways to allow his infantry and cavalry to advance in formation, a fighting tactic that favored the Spanish instead of engaging in hand to hand street fighting, which favored the Aztec.\n\nCortés then concentrated on letting the Aztec \"eat up all the provisions they have\" and drink brackish water. The Spaniards gradually advanced along the causeways, though without allies. Their launches had freedom of the lake, after devising a method for breaking the impaling stakes the Aztec had placed for them. After twelve days of this, the Spanish allies realized the prophecy by the Aztec idols, that the Spaniards would be dead in ten days was false. Two thousand warriors returned from Texcoco, as did many Tlaxcan warriors under Tepaneca from Topeyanco, and those from Huejotzingo and Cholula.\nCuauhtemoc then enlisted his allies in Matlazingo, Malinalco, and Tulapa, in attacking the Spaniards from the rear. However, Cortés sent Andrés de Tapia, with 20 horsemen and 100 soldiers, and Gonzalo de Sandoval, with 20 horsemen and 80 soldiers, to help his allies attack this new threat. They returned with two of the Matlazingo chieftains as prisoners.\n\nAs the Spanish employed more successful strategies, their stranglehold on Tenochtitlan tightened, and famine began to affect the Aztecs. The Aztecs were cut off from the mainland because of the occupied causeways. Cortés also had the advantage of fighting a mostly defensive battle. Though Cuauhtémoc organized a large-scale attack on Alvarado’s forces at Tlacopan, the Aztec forces were pushed back. Throughout the siege, the Aztecs had little aid from outside of Tenochtitlan. The remaining loyal tributaries had difficulty sending forces, because it would leave them vulnerable to Spanish attack. Many of these loyal tributaries were surrounded by the Spanish.\n\nThough the tributaries often went back and forth in their loyalties at any sign of change, the Spanish tried hard not to lose any allies. They feared a “snowball effect”: if one tributary left, others might follow. Therefore, they brutally crushed any tributaries who tried to send help to Tenochtitlan. Any shipments of food and water were intercepted, and even those trying to fish in the lake were attacked. The situation inside the city was desperate: because of the famine and the smallpox there were already thousands of victims, women offered to the gods even their children's clothes, so most children were stark naked. Many Aztecs drank dirty, brackish water because of their severe thirst and contracted dysentery. The famine was so severe that the Aztecs ate anything, even wood, leather, and bricks for sustenance.\n\nThe Spanish continued to push closer to Tenochtitlan. The Aztecs changed tactics as often as the Spanish did, preventing Cortés’s forces from being entirely victorious. However, the Aztecs were severely worn down. They had no new troops, supplies, food, nor water. The Spanish received a large amount of supplies from Vera Cruz, and, somewhat renewed, finally entered the main part of Tenochtitlan.\n\nCortés then ordered a simultaneous advance of all three camps towards the Tlatelolco marketplace. Alvarado's company made it there first, and Gutierrez de Badajoz advanced to the top of the Huichilopotzli \"cu\", setting it afire and planting their Spanish banners. Cortés' and Sandoval's men were able to join them there after four more days of fighting.\n\nThe Spanish forces and their allies advanced into the city. Despite inflicting heavy casualties, the Aztecs could not halt the Spanish advance. While the fighting in the city raged, the Aztecs cut out and ate the hearts of 70 Spanish prisoners-of-war at the altar to Huitzilopochtli. By August, many of the native inhabitants had fled Tlatelolco. Cortés sent emissaries to negotiate with the Tlatelolcas to join his side, but the Tlatelolcas remained loyal to the Aztecs. Throughout the siege, the Tlaxcalans waged a merciless campaign against the Aztecs who had long oppressed them as for a hundred years the Tlaxcalans had been forced to hand over an annual quota of young men and women to be sacrificed and eaten at the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan, and now the Tlaxcalans saw their chance for revenge. The American historian Charles Robinson wrote: \"Centuries of hate and the basic viciousness of Mesoamerican warfare combined in violence that appalled Cortés himself\". In letter to the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V, Cortés wrote: \"We had more trouble in preventing our allies from killing with such cruelty than we had in fighting the enemy. For no race, however savage, has ever practiced such fierce and unnatural cruelty as the natives of these parts. Our allies also took many spoils that day, which we were unable to prevent, as they numbered more than 150,000 and we Spaniards only some nine hundred. Neither our precautions nor our warnings could stop their looting, though we did all we could...I had posted Spaniards in every street, so that when the people began to come out [to surrender] they might prevent our allies from killing those wretched people, whose numbers was uncountable. I also told the captains of our allies that on no account should any of those people be slain; but there were so many that we could not prevent more than fifteen thousand being killed and sacrificed [by the Tlaxcalans] that day\".\n\nThroughout the battles with the Spanish, the Aztecs still practiced the traditional ceremonies and customs. Tlapaltecatl Opochtzin was chosen to be outfitted to wear the quetzal owl costume. He was supplied with darts sacred to Huitzilopochtli, which came with wooden tips and flint tops. When he came, the Spanish soldiers appeared scared and intimidated. They chased the owl-warrior, but he was neither captured nor killed. The Aztecs took this as a good sign, but they could fight no more, and after discussions with the nobles, Cuauhtémoc began talks with the Spanish.\n\nAfter several failed peace overtures to Cuauhtémoc, Cortés ordered Sandoval to attack that part of the city in which Cuauhtémoc had retreated. As hundreds of canoes filled the lake fleeing the doomed city, Cortés sent his brigantines out to intercept them. Cuauhtémoc attempted to flee with his property, gold, jewels, and family in fifty pirogues, but was soon captured by Sandoval's launches, and brought before Cortés.\n\nThe Aztec forces were destroyed and the Aztecs surrendered on 13 August 1521, Julian Date. Cortés demanded the return of the gold lost during La Noche Triste. Under torture, by burning their feet with oil, Cuauhtémoc and the lord of Tacuba, confessed to dumping his gold and jewels into the lake. Yet, little gold remained, as earlier, a fifth had been sent to Spain and another kept by Cortés. \"In the end...the remaining gold all fell to the King's officials.\"\n\nCuauhtémoc was taken prisoner the same day, as related above, and remained the titular leader of Tenochtitlan, under the control of Cortés, until he was hanged for treason in 1525 while accompanying a Spanish expedition to Guatemala.\n\n100,000 to 240,000 were killed in the campaign overall including warriors and civilians. As many as 40,000 Aztecs bodies were floating in the canals or awaiting burial after the siege. Almost all of the Aztec nobility were dead, and the remaining survivors were mostly young women and very young children. At least 40,000 Aztecs civilians were killed and captured. \n\nAfter the Fall of Tenochtitlan the remaining Aztec warriors and civilians fled the city as the Spanish allies, primarily the Tlaxcalans, continued to attack even after the surrender, slaughtering thousands of the remaining civilians and looting the city. The Tlaxcalans did not spare women or children: they entered houses, stealing all precious things they found, raping and then killing women, stabbing children. The survivors marched out of the city for the next three days. One source claims 6,000 were massacred in the town of Ixtapalapa alone. Due to the wholesale slaughter after the campaign and the destruction of Aztec culture some sources such as Israel Charney, John C. Cox, and Norman Naimark have likened the siege to a genocide.\n\nAlthough some reports put the number as low as forty, the Spanish lost over 100 soldiers in the siege, while thousands of Tlaxcalans perished. It is estimated that around 1,800 Spaniards died from all causes during the two-year campaign—from Vera Cruz to Tenochtitlan. (Thomas, pp. 528–29) The remaining Spanish forces consisted of 800–900 Spaniards, eighty horses, sixteen pieces of artillery, and Cortés’ thirteen brigantines. Other sources estimate that around 860 Spanish soldiers and 20.000 Tlaxcalan warriors were killed during all the battles in this region from 1519–1521. \n\nIt is well accepted that Cortés’ indigenous allies, which may have numbered as many as 200,000 over the three-year period of the conquest, were indispensable to his success.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47292967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47292967", "title": "Fars-Nama-ye Naseri", "text": "Fars-Nama-ye Naseri\n\nFars-Nama-ye Naseri (, literally \"Naseri's Book on Fars\") is a book on geography and history of Fars Province, with illustrations and maps, by Hasan Fasāʾī (1821-1898). Authorship of this book was assigned by Naser al-Din Shah Qajar. Volume two also covers the climate of Fars Province, its vegetation, agriculture and fauna, cartography, and the position of Fars province based on longitude and latitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12729644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12729644", "title": "François Hinard", "text": "François Hinard\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42540623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42540623", "title": "Gail Fine", "text": "Gail Fine\n\nGail Fine is a professor of philosophy at Cornell University. She is also a visiting professor of ancient philosophy at Oxford University, and a senior research fellow at Merton College, Oxford University.\n\nFine earned her B.A. from the University of Michigan (1971); and her MA (1973) and PhD from Harvard University (1975). She also holds an MA from Oxford University (2009). She has taught at Cornell University since 1975, and has been affiliated with Oxford since 2007. She is the recipient of fellowships from the NEH and ACLS. In 1992, she won Cornell's Clark Award for distinguished teaching.\n\nGail Fine is married to Terence Irwin, who is the professor of the history of philosophy at Oxford University and a fellow of Keble College, Oxford. In 2013, the Sage School of Philosophy at Cornell held a conference in honor of Gail Fine and Terence Irwin. She is the daughter of the American historian Sidney Fine.\n\nFine specializes in ancient philosophy. Fine's first book, \"On Ideas: Aristotle’s Criticism of Plato’s Theory of Forms\", is the first full-length book in English to discuss Aristotle's lost essay \"Peri Ideôn (On Ideas)\". The essay survives only in fragments preserved by the Greek commentator Alexander, in his commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics. In it, Aristotle formulates and criticizes a number of arguments for the existence of Platonic forms. Fine analyzes the arguments Aristotle ascribes to Plato and assesses his criticisms of them, asking whether he correctly interprets Plato's arguments for and views about the nature and existence of forms. She also considers aspects of Aristotle's alternative epistemological and metaphysical views, and relates both his and Plato's views to contemporary issues in metaphysics, such as the distinction between universals and particulars, the range of universals, and whether they can exist uninstantiated.\n\nFine's second book, \"Plato on Knowledge and Forms: Selected Essays\", collects 15 articles on Plato's metaphysics and epistemology.\nAmong the topics these essays consider are Meno's paradox; knowledge and belief in \"Republic\" 5-7; the \"Theaeteteus\"; the separation of forms; whether forms are immanent; and forms as causes.\n\nBoth \"On Ideas\" and \"Plato on Knowledge and Forms\" were the subject of book symposia at sessions of the American Philosophical Association.\n\nHer third book, \"The Possibility of Inquiry: Meno's Paradox from Socrates to Sextus\" was published by Oxford University Press in 2014.\n\nShe is also the editor of \"The Oxford Handbook of Plato\" (Oxford University Press, 2008) and of \"Plato 1 and 2\" in the Oxford Readings in Philosophy series (1999).\n\nShe is perhaps best known for her work in four main areas:\n\n\nFine has received four NEH fellowships (spring, 1980; 1982-3; 1978-8; and 2004-5. She has also received an American Council of Learned Societies fellowship (1990-1), and the Cornell Clark Award for Distinguished Teaching.\n\nas sole author:\n\n\nas editor:\n\n\nShe has also written more than 50 articles.\n"}
{"id": "1940832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1940832", "title": "Global governance", "text": "Global governance\n\nGlobal governance or world governance is a movement towards political cooperation among transnational actors, aimed at negotiating responses to problems that affect more than one state or region. Institutions of global governance—the United Nations, the International Criminal Court, the World Bank, etc.—tend to have limited or demarcated power to enforce compliance. The modern question of world governance exists in the context of globalization and globalizing regimes of power: politically, economically and culturally. In response to the acceleration of worldwide interdependence, both between human societies and between humankind and the biosphere, the term \"global governance\" may name the process of designating laws, rules, or regulations intended for a global scale.\n\nGlobal governance is not a singular system. There is no \"world government\" but the many different regimes of global \"governance\" do have commonalities:\n\nThe term world governance is broadly used to designate all regulations intended for organization and centralization of human societies on a global scale. The Forum for a new World Governance defines world governance simply as \"collective management of the planet\".\n\nTraditionally, \"government\" has been associated with \"governing,\" or with political authority, institutions, and, ultimately, control. \"Governance\" denotes a process through which institutions coordinate and control independent social relations, and that have the ability to enforce, by force, their decisions. However, authors like James Rosenau have also used \"governance\" to denote the regulation of interdependent relations in the absence of an overarching political authority, such as in the international system. Some now speak of the development of \"global public policy\".\n\nAdil Najam, a scholar on the subject at the Pardee School of Global Studies, Boston University has defined global governance simply as \"the management of global processes in the absence of global government.\" According to Thomas G. Weiss, director of the Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies at the Graduate Center (CUNY) and editor (2000–05) of the journal \"\", \"'Global governance'—which can be good, bad, or indifferent—refers to concrete cooperative problem-solving arrangements, many of which increasingly involve not only the United Nations of states but also 'other UNs,' namely international secretariats and other non-state actors.\" In other words, global governance refers to the way in which global affairs are managed.\n\nThe definition is flexible in scope, applying to general subjects such as global security and order or to specific documents and agreements such as the World Health Organization's Code on the Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes. The definition applies whether the participation is bilateral (e.g. an agreement to regulate usage of a river flowing in two countries), function-specific (e.g. a commodity agreement), regional (e.g. the Treaty of Tlatelolco), or global (e.g. the Non-Proliferation Treaty). These \"cooperative problem-solving arrangements\" may be formal, taking the shape of laws or formally constituted institutions for a variety of actors (such as state authorities, intergovernmental organizations (IGOs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private sector entities, other civil society actors, and individuals) to manage collective affairs. They may also be informal (as in the case of practices or guidelines) or ad hoc entities (as in the case of coalitions).\n\nHowever, a single organization may take the nominal lead on an issue, for example the World Trade Organization (WTO) in world trade affairs. Therefore, global governance is thought to be an international process of consensus-forming which generates guidelines and agreements that affect national governments and international corporations. Examples of such consensus would include WHO policies on health issues.\n\nIn short, global governance may be defined as \"the complex of formal and informal institutions, mechanisms, relationships, and processes between and among states, markets, citizens and organizations, both inter- and non-governmental, through which collective interests on the global plane are articulated, Duties, obligations and privileges are established, and differences are mediated through educated professionals.\"\n\nTitus Alexander, author of \"Unravelling Global Apartheid, an Overview of World Politics\", has described the current institutions of global governance as a system of global apartheid, with numerous parallels with minority rule in the formal and informal structures of South Africa before 1991.\n\nThe dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991 marked the end of a long period of international history based on a policy of balance of powers. Since this historic event, the planet has entered a phase of geostrategic breakdown. The national-security model, for example, while still in place for most governments, is gradually giving way to an emerging collective conscience that extends beyond the restricted framework it represents.\n\nThe post-Cold War world of the 1990s saw a new paradigm emerge based on a number of issues:\n\n\nGlobal governance can be roughly divided into four stages:\n\nWorld authorities including international organizations and corporations achieve deference to their agenda through different means. Authority can derive from institutional status, expertise, moral authority, capacity, or perceived competence.\n\nIn its initial phase, world governance was able to draw on themes inherited from geopolitics and the theory of international relations, such as peace, defense, geostrategy, diplomatic relations, and trade relations. But as globalization progresses and the number of interdependences increases, the global level is also highly relevant to a far wider range of subjects. Following are a number of examples.\n\n\"The crisis brought about by the accelerated pace and the probably irreversible character of the effect of human activities on nature requires collective answers from governments and citizens. Nature ignores political and social barriers, and the global dimension of the crisis cancels the effects of any action initiated unilaterally by state governments or sectoral institutions, however powerful they may be. Climate change, ocean and air pollution, nuclear risks and those related to genetic manipulation, the reduction and extinction of resources and biodiversity, and above all a development model that remains largely unquestioned globally are all among the various manifestations of this accelerated and probably irreversible effect.\n\nThis effect is the factor, in the framework of globalization, that most challenges a system of states competing with each other to the exclusion of all others: among the different fields of global governance, environmental management is the most wanting in urgent answers to the crisis in the form of collective actions by the whole of the human community. At the same time, these actions should help to model and strengthen the progressive building of this community.\"\n\nProposals in this area have discussed the issue of how collective environmental action is possible. Many multilateral, environment-related agreements have been forged in the past 30 years, but their implementation remains difficult. There is also some discussion on the possibility of setting up an international organization that would centralize all the issues related to international environmental protection, such as the proposed World Environment Organization (WEO). The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) could play this role, but it is a small-scale organization with a limited mandate. The question has given rise to two opposite views: the European Union, especially France and Germany, along with a number of NGOs, is in favor of creating a WEO; the United Kingdom, the USA, and most developing countries prefer opting for voluntary initiatives.\n\nThe International Institute for Sustainable Development proposes a \"reform agenda\" for global environmental governance. The main argument is that there seems to exist an unspoken but powerful consensus on the essential objectives of a system of global environmental governance. These goals would require top-quality leadership, a strong environmental policy based on knowledge, effective cohesion and coordination, good management of the institutions constituting the environmental governance system, and spreading environmental concerns and actions to other areas of international policy and action.\n\nThe focus of environmental issues shifted to climate change from 1992 onwards. Due to the transboundary nature of climate change, various calls have been made for a World Environment Organisation (WEO) (sometimes referred to as a Global Environment Organisation) to tackle this global problem on a global scale. At present, a single worldwide governing body with the powers to develop and enforce environmental policy does not exist. The idea for the creation of a WEO was discussed thirty years ago but is receiving fresh attention in the light of arguably disappointing outcomes from recent, ‘environmental mega-conferences’(e.g.Rio Summit and Earth Summit 2002).\n\nInternational environmental organisations do exist. The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), created in 1972, coordinates the environmental activity of countries in the UN. UNEP and similar international environmental organisations are seen as not up to the task. They are criticised as being institutionally weak, fragmented, lacking in standing and providing non-optimal environmental protection. It has been stated that the current decentralised, poorly funded and strictly intergovernmental regime for global environmental issues is sub-standard. However, the creation of a WEO may threaten to undermine some of the more effective aspects of contemporary global environmental governance; notably its fragmented nature, from which flexibility stems. This also allows responses to be more effective and links to be forged across different domains. Even though the environment and climate change are framed as global issues, Levin states that ‘it is precisely at this level that government institutions are least effective and trust most delicate’ while Oberthur and Gehring argue that it would offer little more than institutional restructuring for its own sake.\n\nMany proposals for the creation of a WEO have emerged from the trade and environment debate. It has been argued that instead of creating a WEO to safeguard the environment, environmental issues should be directly incorporated into the World Trade Organization (WTO). The WTO has “had success in integrating trade agreements and opening up markets because it is able to apply legal pressure to nation states and resolve disputes”. Greece and Germany are currently in discussion about the possibility of solar energy being used to repay some of Greece’s debt after their economy crashed in 2010. This exchange of resources, if it is accepted, is an example of increased international cooperation and an instance where the WTO could embrace energy trade agreements. If the future holds similar trade agreements, then an environmental branch of the WTO would surely be necessary. However critics of a WTO/WEO arrangement say that this would neither concentrate on more directly addressing underlying market failures, nor greatly improve rule-making.\n\nThe creation of a new agency, whether it be linked to the WTO or not, has now been endorsed by Renato Ruggiero, the former head of the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as by the new WTO director-designate, Supachai Panitchpakdi. The debate over a global institutional framework for environmental issues will undoubtedly rumble on but at present there is little support for any one proposal.\n\nThe 2008 financial crisis may have undermined faith that laissez-faire capitalism will correct all serious financial malfunctioning on its own, as well as belief in the presumed independence of the economy from politics. It has been stated that, lacking in transparency and far from democratic, international financial institutions may be incapable of handling financial collapses. There are many who believe free-market capitalism may be incapable of forming the economic policy of a stable society, as it has been theorised that it can exacerbate inequalities.\n\nNonetheless, the debate on the potential failings of the system has led the academic world to seek solutions. According to Tubiana and Severino, \"refocusing the doctrine of international cooperation on the concept of public goods offers the possibility . . . of breaking the deadlock in international negotiations on development, with the perception of shared interests breathing new life into an international solidarity that is running out of steam.\"\n\nJoseph Stiglitz argues that a number of global public goods should be produced and supplied to the populations, but are not, and that a number of global externalities should be taken into consideration, but are not. On the other hand, he contends, the international stage is often used to find solutions to completely unrelated problems under the protection of opacity and secrecy, which would be impossible in a national democratic framework.\n\nOn the subject of international trade, Susan George states that \". . . in a rational world, it would be possible to construct a trading system serving the needs of people in both North and South. . . . Under such a system, crushing third world debt and the devastating structural adjustment policies applied by the World Bank and the IMF would have been unthinkable, although the system would not have abolished capitalism.\"\n\nBuilding a responsible world governance that would make it possible to adapt the political organization of society to globalization implies establishing a democratic political legitimacy at every level: local, national, regional and global.\n\nObtaining this legitimacy requires rethinking and reforming, all at the same time:\n\nThe political aspect of world governance is discussed in greater detail in the section Problems of World Governance and Principles of Governance\n\nArmed conflicts have changed in form and intensity since the Berlin wall came down in 1989. The events of 9/11, the wars in Afghanistan and in Iraq, and repeated terrorist attacks all show that conflicts can repercuss well beyond the belligerents directly involved. The major powers and especially the United States, have used war as a means of resolving conflicts and may well continue to do so. If many in the United States believe that fundamentalist Muslim networks are likely to continue to launch attacks, in Europe nationalist movements have proved to be the most persistent terrorist threat. The Global War on Terrorism arguably presents a form of emerging global governance in the sphere of security with the United States leading cooperation among the Western states, non-Western nations and international institutions. Beyer argues that participation in this form of 'hegemonic governance' is caused both by a shared identity and ideology with the US, as well as cost-benefit considerations. Pesawar school attack 2014 is a big challenge to us. Militants from the Pakistani Taliban have attacked an army-run school in Peshawar, killing 141 people, 132 of them children, the military say.\n\nAt the same time, civil wars continue to break out across the world, particularly in areas where civil and human rights are not respected, such as Central and Eastern Africa and the Middle East. These and other regions remain deeply entrenched in permanent crises, hampered by authoritarian regimes, many of them being supported by the United States, reducing entire swathes of the population to wretched living conditions. The wars and conflicts we are faced with have a variety of causes: economic inequality, social conflict, religious sectarianism, Western imperialism, colonial legacies, disputes over territory and over control of basic resources such as water or land. They are all illustrations a deep-rooted crisis of world governance.\n\nThe resulting bellicose climate imbues international relations with competitive nationalism and contributes, in rich and poor countries alike, to increasing military budgets, siphoning off huge sums of public money to the benefit of the arms industry and military-oriented scientific innovation, hence fueling global insecurity. Of these enormous sums, a fraction would be enough to provide a permanent solution for the basic needs of the planet's population hence practically eliminating the causes of war and terrorism.\n\nAndrée Michel argues that the arms race is not only proceeding with greater vigor, it is the surest means for Western countries to maintain their hegemony over countries of the South. Following the break-up of the Eastern bloc countries, she maintains, a strategy for the manipulation of the masses was set up with a permanent invention of an enemy (currently incarnated by Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, and North Korea) and by kindling fear and hate of others to justify perpetuating the Military–industrial complex and arms sales. The author also recalls that the \"Big Five\" at the UN who have the veto right are responsible for 85% of arms sales around the world.\n\nProposals for the governance of peace, security, and conflict resolution begin by addressing prevention of the causes of conflicts, whether economic, social, religious, political, or territorial. This requires assigning more resources to improving people's living conditions—health, accommodation, food, and work—and to education, including education in the values of peace, social justice, and unity and diversity as two sides of the same coin representing the global village.\n\nResources for peace could be obtained by regulating, or even reducing military budgets, which have done nothing but rise in the past recent years. This process could go hand in hand with plans for global disarmament and the conversion of arms industries, applied proportionally to all countries, including the major powers. Unfortunately, the warlike climate of the last decade has served to relegate all plans for global disarmament, even in civil-society debates, and to pigeonhole them as a long-term goal or even a Utopian vision. This is definitely a setback for the cause of peace and for humankind, but it is far from being a permanent obstacle.\n\nInternational institutions also have a role to play in resolving armed conflicts. Small international rapid deployment units could intervene in these with an exclusive mandate granted by a reformed and democratic United Nations system or by relevant regional authorities such as the European Union. These units could be formed specifically for each conflict, using armies from several countries as was the case when the UNIFIL was reinforced during the 2006 Lebanon War. On the other hand, no national army would be authorized to intervene unilaterally outside its territory without a UN or regional mandate.\n\nAnother issue that is worth addressing concerns the legitimate conditions for the use of force and conduct during war. Jean-Réné Bachelet offers an answer with the conceptualization of a military ethics corresponding to the need for a \"principle of humanity.\" The author defines this principle as follows: \"All human beings, whatever their race, nationality, gender, age, opinion, or religion, belong to one same humanity, and every individual has an inalienable right to respect for his life, integrity, and dignity.\"\n\nThe World Trade Organization's (WTO) agenda of liberalizing public goods and services are related to culture, science, education, health, living organisms, information, and communication. This plan has been only partially offset by the alter-globalization movement, starting with the events that took place at the 1999 Seattle meeting, and on a totally different and probably far more influential scale in the medium and long term, by the astounding explosion of collaborative practices on the Internet. However, lacking political and widespread citizen support as well as sufficient resources, civil society has not so far been able to develop and disseminate alternative plans for society as a whole on a global scale, even though plenty of proposals and initiatives have been developed, some more successful than others, to build a fairer, more responsible, and more solidarity-based world in all of these areas.\n\nAbove all, each country tries to impose their values and collective preferences within international institutions such like WTO or UNESCO, particularly in the Medias sector. This is an excellent opportunity to promote their soft power, for instance with the promotion of the cinema\n\nAs far as science is concerned, \"[r]esearch increasingly bows to the needs of financial markets, turning competence and knowledge into commodities, making employment flexible and informal, and establishing contracts based on goals and profits for the benefit of private interests in compliance with the competition principle. The directions that research has taken in the past two decades and the changes it has undergone have drastically removed it from its initial mission (producing competence and knowledge, maintaining independence) with no questioning of its current and future missions. Despite the progress, or perhaps even as its consequence, humankind continues to face critical problems: poverty and hunger are yet to be vanquished, nuclear arms are proliferating, environmental disasters are on the rise, social injustice is growing, and so on.\n\nNeoliberal commercialization of the commons favors the interests of pharmaceutical companies instead of the patients', of food-processing companies instead of the farmers' and consumers'. Public research policies have done nothing but support this process of economic profitability, where research results are increasingly judged by the financial markets. The system of systematically patenting knowledge and living organisms is thus being imposed throughout the planet through the 1994 WTO agreements on intellectual property. Research in many areas is now being directed by private companies.\"\n\nOn the global level, \"[i]nstitutions dominating a specific sector also, at every level, present the risk of reliance on technical bodies that use their own references and deliberate in an isolated environment. This process can be observed with the 'community of patents' that promotes the patenting of living organisms, as well as with authorities controlling nuclear energy. This inward-looking approach is all the more dangerous that communities of experts are, in all complex technical and legal spheres, increasingly dominated by the major economic organizations that finance research and development.\"\n\nOn the other hand, several innovative experiments have emerged in the sphere of science, such as: conscience clauses and citizens' panels as a tool for democratizing the production system: science shops and community-based research. Politically committed scientists are also increasingly organizing at the global level.\n\nAs far as education is concerned, the effect of commoditization can be seen in the serious tightening of education budgets, which affects the quality of general education as a public service. The Global Future Online report reminds us that \". . . at the half-way point towards 2015 \"(author's note: the deadline for the Millennium Goals)\", the gaps are daunting: 80 million children (44 million of them girls) are out of school, with marginalized groups (26 million disabled and 30 million conflict-affected children) continuing to be excluded. And while universal access is critical, it must be coupled with improved learning outcomes—in particular, children achieving the basic literacy, numeracy and life skills essential for poverty reduction.\"\n\nIn addition to making the current educational system available universally, there is also a call to improve the system and adapt it to the speed of changes in a complex and unpredictable world. On this point, Edgar Morin asserts that we must \"[r]ethink our way of organizing knowledge. This means breaking down the traditional barriers between disciplines and designing new ways to reconnect that which has been torn apart.\" The UNESCO report drawn up by Morin contains \"seven principles for education of the future\": detecting the error and illusion that have always parasitized the human spirit and human behavior; making knowledge relevant, i.e. a way of thinking that makes distinctions and connections; teaching the human condition; teaching terrestrial identity; facing human and scientific uncertainties and teaching strategies to deal with them; teaching understanding of the self and of others, and an ethics for humankind.\n\nThe exponential growth of new technologies, the Internet in particular, has gone hand in hand with the development over the last decade of a global community producing and exchanging goods. This development is permanently altering the shape of the entertainment, publishing, and music and media industries, among others. It is also influencing the social behavior of increasing numbers of people, along with the way in which institutions, businesses, and civil society are organized. Peer-to-peer communities and collective knowledge-building projects such as Wikipedia have involved millions of users around the world. There are even more innovative initiatives, such as alternatives to private copyright such as Creative Commons, cyber democracy practices, and a real possibility of developing them on the sectoral, regional, and global levels.\n\nRegional players, whether regional conglomerates such as Mercosur and the European Union, or major countries seen as key regional players such as China, the United States, and India, are taking a growing interest in world governance. Examples of discussion of this issue can be found in the works of: Martina Timmermann \"et al.\", \"Institutionalizing Northeast Asia: Regional Steps toward Global Governance\"; Douglas Lewis, \"Global Governance and the Quest for Justice - Volume I: International and Regional Organizations\"; Olav Schram Stokke, \"Examining the Consequences of International Regimes,\" which discusses Northern, or Arctic region building in the context of international relations; Jeffery Hart and Joan Edelman Spero, \"Globalization and Global Governance in the 21st Century,\" which discusses the push of countries such as Mexico, Brazil, India, China, Taiwan, and South Korea, \"important regional players\" seeking \"a seat at the table of global decision-making\"; Dr. Frank Altemöller, “International Trade: Challenges for Regional and Global Governance: A comparison between Regional Integration Models in Eastern Europe and Africa – and the role of the WTO”, and many others.\n\nInterdependence among countries and regions hardly being refutable today, regional integration is increasingly seen not only as a process in itself, but also in its relation to the rest of the world, sometimes turning questions like \"What can the world bring to my country or region?\" into \"What can my country or region bring to the rest of the world?\" Following are a few examples of how regional players are dealing with these questions.\n\nOften seen as a problem to be solved rather than a people or region with an opinion to express on international policy, Africans and Africa draw on a philosophical tradition of community and social solidarity that can serve as inspiration to the rest of the world and contribute to building world governance. One example is given by Sabelo J. Ndlovu-Gathseni when he reminds us of the relevance of the Ubuntu concept, which stresses the interdependence of human beings.\n\nAfrican civil society has thus begun to draw up proposals for governance of the continent, which factor in all of the dimensions: local, African, and global. Examples include proposals by the network \"Dialogues sur la gouvernance en Afrique\" for \"the construction of a local legitimate governance,\" state reform \"capable of meeting the continent's development challenges,\" and \"effective regional governance to put an end to Africa's marginalization.\"\n\nForeign-policy proposals announced by President Barack Obama include restoring the Global Poverty Act, which aims to contribute to meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals to reduce by half the world population living on less than a dollar a day by 2015. Foreign aid is expected to double to 50 billion dollars. The money will be used to help build educated and healthy communities, reduce poverty and improve the population's health.\n\nIn terms of international institutions, The White House Web site advocates reform of the World Bank and the IMF, without going into any detail.\n\nBelow are further points in the Obama-Biden plan for foreign policy directly related to world governance:\n\nThe 21st century has seen the arrival of a new and diverse generation of left-wing governments in Latin America. This has opened the door to initiatives to launch political and governance renewal. A number of these initiatives are significant for the way they redefine the role of the state by drawing on citizen participation, and can thus serve as a model for a future world governance built first and foremost on the voice of the people. The constituent assemblies in Ecuador and Bolivia are fundamental examples of this phenomenon.\n\nIn Ecuador, social and indigenous movements were behind the discussions that began in 1990 on setting up a constituent assembly. In the wake of Rafael Correa's arrival at the head of the country in November 2006, widespread popular action with the slogan \"que se vayan todos\" (let them all go away) succeeded in getting all the political parties of congress to accept a convocation for a referendum on setting up the assembly.\n\nIn April 2007, Rafael Correa's government organized a consultation with the people to approve setting up a constituent assembly. Once it was approved, 130 members of the assembly were elected in September, including 100 provincial members, 24 national members and 6 for migrants in Europe, Latin America and the USA. The assembly was officially established in November. Assembly members belonged to traditional political parties as well as the new social movements. In July 2008, the assembly completed the text for the new constitution and in September 2008 there was a referendum to approve it. Approval for the new text won out, with 63.9% of votes for compared to 28.1% of votes against and a 24.3% abstention rate.\n\nThe new constitution establishes the rule of law on economic, social, cultural and environmental rights (ESCER). It transforms the legal model of the social state subject to the rule of law into a \"constitution of guaranteed well-being\" (\"Constitución del bienestar garantizado\") inspired by the ancestral community ideology of \"good living\" propounded by the Quechuas of the past, as well as by 21st century socialist ideology. The constitution promotes the concept of food sovereignty by establishing a protectionist system that favors domestic production and trade. It also develops a model of public aid for education, health, infrastructures and other services.\n\nIn addition, it adds to the three traditional powers, a fourth power called the Council of Citizen Participation and Social Control, made up of former constitutional control bodies and social movements, and mandated to assess whether public policies are constitutional or not.\n\nThe new Bolivian constitution was approved on 25 January 2009 by referendum, with 61.4% votes in favor, 38.6% against and a 90.2% turnout. The proposed constitution was prepared by a constituent assembly that did not only reflect the interests of political parties and the elite, but also represented the indigenous peoples and social movements. As in Ecuador, the proclamation of a constituent assembly was demanded by the people, starting in 1990 at a gathering of indigenous peoples from the entire country, continuing with the indigenous marches in the early 2000s and then with the Program Unity Pact (\"Pacto de Unidad Programático\") established by family farmers and indigenous people in September 2004 in Santa Cruz.\n\nThe constitution recognizes the autonomy of indigenous peoples, the existence of a specific indigenous legal system, exclusive ownership of forest resources by each community and a quota of indigenous members of parliament. It grants autonomy to counties, which have the right to manage their natural resources and elect their representatives directly. The \"latifundio\" system has been outlawed, with maximum ownership of 5,000 hectares allowed per person. Access to water and sanitation are covered by the constitution as human rights that the state has to guarantee, as well as other basic services such as electricity, gas, postal services, and telecommunications that can be provided by either the state or contracting companies. The new constitution also establishes a social and community economic model made up of public, private, and social organizations, and cooperatives. It guarantees private initiative and freedom of enterprise, and assigns public organizations the task of managing natural resources and related processes as well as developing public services covered by the constitution. National and cooperative investment is favored over private and international investment.\nThe \"unitary plurinational\" state of Bolivia has 36 official indigenous languages along with Spanish. Natural resources belong to the people and are administered by the state. The form of democracy in place is no longer considered as exclusively representative and/or based on parties. Thus, \"the people deliberate and exercise government via their representatives and the constituent assembly, the citizen legislative initiative and the referendum . . .\" and \"popular representation is exercised via the political parties, citizen groups, and indigenous peoples.\" This way, \"political parties, and/or citizen groups and/or indigenous peoples can present candidates directly for the offices of president, vice-president, senator, house representative, constituent-assembly member, councilor, mayor, and municipal agent. The same conditions apply legally to all. . . .\"\n\nAlso in Latin America: \"Amazonia . . . is an enormous biodiversity reservoir and a major climate-regulation agent for the planet but is being ravaged and deteriorated at an accelerated pace; it is a territory almost entirely devoid of governance, but also a breeding place of grassroots organization initiatives.\". \"Amazonia can be the fertile field of a true school of 'good' governance if it is looked after as a common and valuable good, first by Brazilians (65% of Amazonia is within Brazilian borders) and the people of the South American countries surrounding it, but also by all the Earth's inhabitants.\"\nAccordingly, \"[f]rom a world-governance perspective, [Amazonia] is in a way an enormous laboratory. Among other things, Amazonia enables a detailed examination of the negative effects of productivism and of the different forms of environmental packaging it can hide behind, including 'sustainable development.' Galloping urbanization, Human Rights violations, the many different types of conflicts (14 different types of conflicts have been identified within the hundreds of cases observed in Amazonia), protection of indigenous populations and their active participation in local governance: these are among the many Amazonian challenges also affecting the planet as a whole, not to mention the environment. The hosts of local initiatives, including among the indigenous populations, are however what may be most interesting in Amazonia in that they testify to the real, concrete possibility of a different form of organization that combines a healthy local economy, good social cohesion, and a true model of sustainable development—this time not disguised as something else. All of this makes Amazonia 'a territory of solutions.'\"\n\nAccording to Arnaud Blin, the Amazonian problem helps to define certain fundamental questions on the future of humankind. First, there is the question of social justice: \"[H]ow do we build a new model of civilization that promotes social justice? How do we set up a new social architecture that allows us to live together?\" The author goes on to refer to concepts such as the concept of \"people's territory \" or even \"life territory\" rooted in the indigenous tradition and serving to challenge private property and social injustice. He then suggests that the emerging concept of the \"responsibility to protect,\" following up on the \"right of humanitarian intervention\" and until now used to try to protect populations endangered by civil wars, could also be applied to populations threatened by economic predation and to environmental protection.\n\nThe growing interest in world governance in Asia represents an alternative approach to official messages, dominated by states' nationalist visions. An initiative to develop proposals for world governance took place in Shanghai in 2006, attended by young people from every continent. The initiative produced ideas and projects that can be classified as two types: the first and more traditional type, covering the creation of a number of new institutions such as an International Emissions Organization, and a second more innovative type based on organizing network-based systems. For example, a system of cooperative control on a worldwide level among states and self-organization of civil society into networks using new technologies, a process that should serve to set up a \"Global Calling-for-Help Center\" or a new model based on citizens who communicate freely, share information, hold discussions, and seek consensus-based solutions. They would use the Internet and the media, working within several types of organizations: universities, NGOs, local volunteers and civil-society groups.\n\nGiven the demographic importance of the continent, the development of discussion on governance and practices in Asia at the regional level, as well as global-level proposals, will be decisive in the years ahead in the strengthening of global dialog among all sorts of stakeholders, a dialog that should produce a fairer world order.(See Kishore Mahbubani).\n\nAccording to Michel Rocard, Europe does not have a shared vision, but a collective history that allows Europeans to opt for projects for gradual political construction such as the European Union. Drawing on this observation, Rocard conceives of a European perspective that supports the development of three strategies for constructing world governance: reforming the UN, drawing up international treaties to serve as the main source of global regulations, and \"the progressive penetration of the international scene by justice.\"\n\nRocard considers that there are a number of \"great questions of the present days\" including recognition by all nations of the International Criminal Court, the option of an international police force authorized to arrest international criminals, and the institution of judicial procedures to deal with tax havens, massively polluting activities, and states supporting terrorist activities. He also outlines \"new problems\" that should foster debate in the years to come on questions such as a project for a Declaration of Interdependence, how to re-equilibrate world trade and WTO activities, and how to create world regulations for managing collective goods (air, drinking water, oil, etc.) and services (education, health, etc.).\n\nMartin Ortega similarly suggests that the European Union should make a more substantial contribution to global governance, particularly through concerted action in international bodies. European states, for instance, should reach an agreement on the reform of the United Nations Security Council.\n\nIn 2011, the European Strategy and Policy Analysis System (ESPAS), an inter-institutional pilot project of the European Union which aims to assist EU policy formulation through the identification and critical analysis of long-term global trends, highlighted the importance of expanding global governance over the next 20 years.\n\nIt is too soon to give a general account of the view of world-governance stakeholders, although interest in world governance is on the rise on the regional level, and we will certainly see different types of stakeholders and social sectors working to varying degrees at the international level and taking a stand on the issue in the years to come.\n\nThe World Parliamentary Forum, open to members of parliament from all nations and held every year at the same time as the World Social Forum, drew up a declaration at the sixth forum in Caracas in 2006. The declaration contains a series of proposals that express participants' opinion on the changes referred to.\n\nThe European Commission referred to global governance in its White Paper on European Governance. It contends that the search for better global governance draws on the same set of shared challenges humanity is currently facing. These challenges can be summed up by a series of goals: sustainable development, security, peace and equity (in the sense of \"fairness\").\n\nThe freedom of thought enjoyed by non-state stakeholders enables them to formulate truly alternative ideas on world-governance issues, but they have taken little or no advantage of this opportunity.\n\nPierre Calame believes that \"[n]on-state actors have always played an essential role in global regulation, but their role will grow considerably in this, the beginning of the twenty-first Century . . . Non-state actors play a key role in world governance in different domains . . . To better understand and develop the non-state actors' role, it should be studied in conjunction with the general principles of governance.\" \"Non-state actors, due to their vocation, size, flexibility, methods of organization and action, interact with states in an equal manner; however this does not mean that their action is better adapted.\"\n\nOne alternative idea encapsulated by many not-for-profit organisations relates to ideas in the 'Human Potential Movement' and might be summarised as a mission statement along these lines: 'To create an accepted framework for all humankind, that is self-regulating and which enables every person to achieve their fullest potential in harmony with the world and its place in existence.'\n\nSince the Rio Earth Summit in 1992, references to the universal collective of humanity have begun using the term 'humankind' rather than 'mankind', given the gender neutral quality of the former.\n\n'Self-regulation' is meant to invoke the concept of regulation which includes rule-making such as laws, and related ideas e.g. legal doctrine as well as other frameworks. However its scope is wider than this and intended to encompass cybernetics which allows for the study of regulation in as many varied contexts as possible from the regulation of gene expression to the Press Complaints Commission for example.\n\nSince 2005, religious leaders from a diverse array of faith traditions have engaged in dialogue with G8 leaders around issues of global governance and world risk. Drawing on the cultural capital of diverse religious traditions, they seek to strengthen democratic norms by influencing political leaders to include the interests of the most vulnerable when they make their decisions. Some have argued that religion is a key to transforming or fixing global governance.\n\nSeveral stakeholders have produced lists of proposals for a new world governance that is fairer, more responsible, solidarity-based, interconnected and respectful of the planet's diversity. Some examples are given below.\n\nJoseph E. Stiglitz proposes a list of reforms related to the internal organization of international institutions and their external role in the framework of global-governance architecture. He also deals with global taxation, the management of global resources and the environment, the production and protection of global knowledge, and the need for a global legal infrastructure.\n\nA number of other proposals are contained in the World Governance Proposal Paper: giving concrete expression to the principle of responsibility; granting civil society greater involvement in drawing up and implementing international regulations; granting national parliaments greater involvement in drawing up and implementing international regulations; re-equilibrating trade mechanisms and adopting regulations to benefit the southern hemisphere; speeding up the institution of regional bodies; extending and specifying the concept of the commons; redefining proposal and decision-making powers in order to reform the United Nations; developing independent observation, early-warning, and assessment systems; diversifying and stabilizing the basis for financing international collective action; and engaging in a wide-reaching process of consultation, a new Bretton Woods for the United Nations.\n\nThis list provides more examples of proposals:\n\nDr. Rajesh Tandon, president of the FIM (Montreal International Forum) and of PRIA (Participatory Research in Asia), prepared a framework document entitled \"Democratization of Global Governance for Global Democracy: Civil Society Visions and Strategies (G05) conference.\" He used the document to present five principles that could provide a basis for civil society actions: \"Global institutions and agenda should be subjected to democratic political accountability.\"\n\nVijaya Ramachandran, Enrique Rueda-Sabater and Robin Kraft also define principles for representation of nations and populations in the system of global governance. They propose a \"Two Percent Club\" that would provide for direct representation of nations with at least two percent of global population or global GDP; other nations would be represented within international fora through regional blocs.\n\nIn the light of the unclear meaning of the term \"global governance\" as a concept in international politics, some authors have proposed defining it not in substantive, but in disciplinary and methodological terms. For these authors, global governance is better understood as an analytical concept or optic that provides a specific perspective on world politics different from that of conventional international relations theory. Thomas G. Weiss and Rorden Wilkinson have even argued that global governance has the capacity to overcome some of the fragmentation of international relations as a discipline particularly when understood as a set of questions about the governance of world orders.\n\nSome universities, including those offering courses in international relations, have begun to establish degree programmes in global governance.\n\nThere are those who believe that world architecture depends on establishing a system of world governance. However, the equation is currently becoming far more complicated: Whereas the process used to be about regulating and limiting the individual power of states to avoid disturbing or overturning the status quo, the issue for today's world governance is to have a collective influence on the world's destiny by establishing a system for regulating the many interactions that lie beyond the province of state action. The political homogenization of the planet that has followed the advent of what is known as liberal democracy in its many forms should make it easier to establish a world governance system that goes beyond market laissez-faire and the democratic peace originally formulated by Immanuel Kant, which constitutes a sort of geopolitical laissez-faire.\n\nAnother view regarding the establishment of global governance is based on the difficulties to achieve equitable development at the world scale. \"To secure for all human beings in all parts of the world the conditions allowing a decent and meaningful life requires enormous human energies and far-reaching changes in policies. The task is all the more demanding as the world faces numerous other problems, each related to or even part of the development challenge, each similarly pressing, and each calling for the same urgent attention. But, as Arnold Toynbee has said, 'Our age is the first generation since the dawn of history in which mankind dares to believe it practical to make the benefits of civilization available to the whole human race'.\"\n\nBecause of the heterogeneity of preferences, which are enduring despite globalization, are often perceived as an implacable homogenization process. Americans and Europeans provide a good example of this point: on some issues they have differing common grounds in which the division between the public and private spheres still exist. Tolerance for inequalities and the growing demand for redistribution, attitudes toward risk, and over property rights vs human rights, set the stage. In certain cases, globalization even serves to accentuate differences rather than as a force for homogenization. Responsibility must play its part with respect to regional and International governments, when balancing the needs of its citizenry.\n\nWith the growing emergence of a global civic awareness, comes opposition to globalization and its effects. A rapidly growing number of movements and organizations have taken the debate to the international level. Although it may have limitations, this trend is one response to the increasing importance of world issues, that effect the planet.\n\nPierre Jacquet, Jean Pisani-Ferry, and Laurence Tubiana argue that \"[t]o ensure that decisions taken for international integration are sustainable, it is important that populations see the benefits, that states agree on their goals and that the institutions governing the process are seen as legitimate. These three conditions are only partially being met. Taklya\"\n\nThe authors refer to a \"crisis of purpose\" and international institutions suffering from \"imbalance\" and inadequacy. They believe that for these institutions, \"a gap has been created between the nature of the problems that need tackling and an institutional architecture which does not reflect the hierarchy of today's problems. For example, the environment has become a subject of major concern and central negotiation, but it does not have the institutional support that is compatible with its importance.\"\n\nGlobal governance is not world government, and even less democratic globalization. In fact, global governance would not be necessary, were there a world government. Domestic governments have monopolies on the use of force—the power of enforcement. Global governance refers to the political interaction that is required to solve problems that affect more than one state or region when there is no power to enforce compliance. Problems arise, and networks of actors are constructed to deal with them in the absence of an international analogue to a domestic government. This system has been termed disaggregated sovereignty.\n\nImproved global problem solving need not involve the establishment of additional powerful formal global institutions. It does involve building consensus on norms and practices. One such area, currently under construction, is the development and improvement of accountability mechanisms. For example, the UN Global Compact brings together companies, UN agencies, labor organizations, and civil society to support universal environmental and social principles. Participation is entirely voluntary, and there is no enforcement of the principles by an outside regulatory body. Companies adhere to these practices both because they make economic sense, and because stakeholders, especially shareholders, can monitor their compliance easily. Mechanisms such as the Global Compact can improve the ability of affected individuals and populations to hold companies accountable. However, corporations participating in the UN Global Compact have been criticized for their merely minimal standards, the absence of sanction-and-control measures, their lack of commitment to social and ecological standards, minimal acceptance among corporations around the world, and the high cost involved in reporting annually to small and medium-sized business\n\nBitcoin & Beyond: Blockchains, Globalization, and Global Governance workshop brings together an interdisciplinary group of researchers to examine the implications that blockchains pose for globalization and global governance.\n\nOne effect of globalization is the increasing regulation of businesses in the global marketplace. Jan Aart Scholte asserts, however, that these changes are inadequate to meet the needs: \"Along with the general intensified globalization of social relations in contemporary history has come an unprecedented expansion of regulatory apparatuses that cover planetary jurisdictions and constituencies. On the whole, however, this global governance remains weak relative to pressing current needs for global public policy. Shortfalls in moral standing, legal foundations, material delivery, democratic credentials and charismatic leadership have together generated large legitimacy deficits in existing global regimes.\"\n\nProposals and initiatives have been developed by various sources to set up networks and institutions operating on a global scale: political parties, unions, regional authorities, and members of parliament in sovereign states.\n\nOne of the conditions for building a world democratic governance should be the development of platforms for citizen dialogue on the legal formulation of world governance and the harmonization of objectives.\n\nThis legal formulation could take the form of a Global Constitution. According to Pierre Calame and Gustavo Marin, \"[a] Global Constitution resulting from a process for the institution of a global community will act as the common reference for establishing the order of rights and duties applicable to United Nations agencies and to the other multilateral institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and the World Trade Organization.\" As for formulating objectives, the necessary but insufficient ambition of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, which aim to safeguard humankind and the planet, and the huge difficulties in implementing them, illustrates the inadequacy of institutional initiatives that do not have popular support for having failed to invite citizens to take part in the elaboration process.\n\nFurthermore, the Global Constitution \"must clearly express a limited number of overall objectives that are to be the basis of global governance and are to guide the common action of the U.N. agencies and the multilateral institutions, where the specific role of each of these is subordinated to the pursuit of these common objectives.\"\n\nCalame proposes the following objectives:\n\nIs the UN capable of taking on the heavy responsibility of managing the planet's serious problems? More specifically, can the UN reform itself in such a way as to be able to meet this challenge? At a time when the financial crisis of 2008 is raising the same questions posed by the climate disasters of previous years regarding the unpredictable consequences of disastrous human management, can international financial institutions be reformed in such a way as to go back to their original task, which was to provide financial help to countries in need?\n\nLack of political will and citizen involvement at the international level has also brought about the submission of international institutions to the \"neoliberal\" agenda, particularly financial institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Pierre Calame gives an account of this development, while Joseph E. Stiglitz points out that the need for international institutions like the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO has never been so great, but people's trust in them has never been so low.\n\nOne of the key aspects of the United Nations reform is the problem of the representativeness of the General Assembly. The Assembly operates on the principle of \"one state, one vote,\" so that states of hugely varying sizes have the same effect on the vote, which distorts representativeness and results in a major loss of credibility. Accordingly, \"the General Assembly has lost any real capacity to influence. This means that the mechanisms for action and consultation organized by rich countries have the leading role.\"\n\nGustave Massiah advocates defining and implementing a radical reform of the UN. The author proposes building new foundations that can provide the basis for global democracy and the creation of a Global Social Contract, rooted in the respect and protection of civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights, as well as in the recognition of the strategic role of international law.\n\nThere is the jurisdictional gap, between the increasing need for global governance in many areas - such as health - and the lack of an authority with the power, or jurisdiction, to take action.\nMoreover, the gap of incentive between the need for international cooperation and the motivation to undertake it. The incentive gap is said to be closing as globalization provides increasing impetus for countries to cooperate. However, there are concerns that, as Africa lags further behind economically, its influence on global governance processes will diminish. At last, the participation gap, which refers to the fact that international cooperation remains primarily the affair of governments, leaving civil society groups on the fringes of policy-making. On the other hand, globalization of communication is facilitating the development of global civil society movements.\n\nInadequate global institutions, agreements or networks as well as political and national interests may impede global governance and lead to failures. Such are the consequence of ineffective global governance processes. Qin calls it a necessity to \"reconstruct ideas for effective global governance and sustainable world order, which should include the principles of pluralism, partnership, and participation\" for a change to this phenomenon. The 2012 Global Risks Report places global governance failure at the center of gravity in its geopolitical category.\n\nStudies of global governance are conducted at several academic institutions such as the LSE Department of International Relations (with a previous institution LSE Global Governance closed as a formal research centre of the LSE on 31 July 2011), the Leuven Centre for Global Governance Studies, the Global Governance Programme at the European University Institute, and the Center for Global Governance at Columbia Law School.\n\nJournals dedicated to the studies of global governance include the Chinese Journal of Global Governance, the Global Policy Journal at Durham University, , and Kosmos Journal for Global Transformation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16697383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16697383", "title": "Hannele Klemettilä", "text": "Hannele Klemettilä\n\nHannele Klemettilä (Hannele Klemettilä-McHale, b. 1966, Helsinki, Finland) is a Finnish historian, medievalist, and author living in Manhattan, New York, and the medieval village of Sonning-on-Thames in the county of Berkshire. She studied cultural history at the University of Turku, earned a Ph.D. in medieval history from the University of Leiden in the Netherlands, and was a Postdoctoral Researcher of the Academy of Finland in 2008-2010. She is an Adjunct Professor of cultural history at the University of Turku, and a Life Member at the Clare Hall, University of Cambridge. She published \"Epitomes of Evil\" (Brepols 2006), and other books on late medieval cultural history. Her research interests include late medieval penal culture, representations of the executioner, Gilles de Rais, cooking and cookery books, conceptions of cruelty, medieval symbolism, attitudes to animals and nature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11325429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11325429", "title": "Historical figure", "text": "Historical figure\n\nA historical figure is a famous person in history, such as Catherine the Great, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, or Napoleon.\n\nThe significance of such figures in human progress has been debated. Some think they play a crucial role, while others say they have little impact on the broad currents of thought and social change. The concept is generally used in the sense that the person really existed in the past, as opposed to being legendary. However, the legends that can grow up around historical figures may be hard to distinguish from fact. Sources are often incomplete and may be inaccurate, particularly those from early periods of history. Without a body of personal documents, the more subtle aspects of personality of a historical figure can only be deduced. With historical figures who were also religious figures attempts to separate fact from belief may be controversial.\n\nIn education, presenting information as if it were being told by a historical figure may give it greater impact. Since classical times, students have been asked to put themselves in the place of a historical figure as a way of bringing history to life. Historical figures are often represented in fiction, where fact and fancy are combined. In earlier traditions, before the rise of a critical historical tradition, authors took less care to be as accurate when describing what they knew of historical figures and their actions, interpolating imaginary elements intended to serve a moral purpose to events: such is the Monk of St. Gall's anecdotal account of Charlemagne, \"De Carolo Magno\". More recently there has been a tendency once again for authors to freely depart from the \"facts\" when they conflict with their creative goals.\n\nThe significance of historical figures has long been the subject of debate by philosophers. Hegel (1770–1831) considered that \"world-historical figures\" played a pivotal role in human progress, but felt that they were bound to emerge when change was needed. Thomas Carlyle (1795–1881) saw the study of figures such as Muhammad, William Shakespeare and Oliver Cromwell as key to understanding history. Herbert Spencer (1820–1903), an early believer in evolution and in the universality of natural law, felt that historical individuals were of little importance.\n\nThe German philosopher Hegel defined the concept of the world-historical figure, who embodied the ruthless advance of Immanuel Kant's World Spirit, often overthrowing outdated structures and ideas. To him, Napoleon was such a figure.\nHegel proposed that a world-historical figure essentially posed a challenge, or thesis, and this would generate an antithesis, or opposing force. Eventually a synthesis would resolve the conflict.\nHegel viewed Julius Caesar as a world historical figure, who appeared at a stage when Rome had grown to the point it could no longer continue as a republican city state but had to become an empire. Caesar failed in his bid to make himself an emperor, and was assassinated, but the empire came into existence soon afterward, and Caesar's name has become synonymous with \"emperor\" in forms such as \"kaiser\" or \"czar\".\n\nSøren Kierkegaard, in his early essay \"The Concept of Irony\", generally agrees with Hegel's views, such as his characterization of Socrates as a world-historical figure who acted as a destructive force on Greek received views of morality.\nIn Hegel's view, Socrates broke down social harmony by questioning the meaning of concepts like \"justice\" and \"virtue\".\nEventually, the Athenians quite rightly *(Name source) condemned Socrates to death. But they could not stop the evolution of thought that Socrates had begun, which would lead to the concept of individual conscience.\nHegel said of world-historical figures,\nHowever, Hegel, Thomas Carlyle and others noted that the great historical figures were just representative men, expressions of the material forces of history. Essentially they have little choice about what they do. This is in conflict with the views of George Bancroft or Ralph Waldo Emerson, who praised self-reliance and individualism, and in conflict with Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who also felt that individuals can determine their destiny.\nEngels found that Hegel's system contained an \"internal and incurable contradiction\", resting as it does on both dialectical relativism and idealistic absolutism.\n\nThe Scottish philosopher and evolutionist Herbert Spencer, who was highly influential in the latter half of the nineteenth century, felt that historical figures were relatively unimportant.\nHe wrote to a friend, \"I ignore utterly the personal element in history, and, indeed, show little respect for history altogether as it is ordinarily conceived.\"\nHe wrote, \"The births, deaths, and marriages of kings, and other like historic trivialities, are committed to memory, not because of any direct benefits that can possibly result from knowing them: but because society considers them parts of a good education.\"\nIn his essay \"What Knowledge Is of Most Worth?\" he wrote:\nTaken to an extreme, one may consider that what Hegel calls the \"world spirit\" and T. S. Eliot calls \"those vast impersonal forces\" hold us in their grip. What happens is predetermined. \nBoth Hegel and Marx advocated historical inevitability in contrast to the doctrine of contingency, allowing for alternative outcomes, that was advocated by Friedrich Nietzsche, Michel Foucault and others.\nHowever, Marx argued against the use of the \"historical inevitability\" argument when used to explain the destruction of early communes in Russia.\nAs an orthodox Marxist, Vladimir Lenin accepted the laws of history that Marx had discovered, including the historical inevitability of capitalism followed by a transition to socialism.\nDespite this, Lenin also believed the transition could be effected faster by voluntary action.\n\nIn 1936 Karl Popper published an influential paper on \"The Poverty of Historicism\", published as a book in 1957, that attacked the doctrine of historical inevitability.\nThe historian Isaiah Berlin, author of \"Historical Inevitability\", also argued forcibly against this view, going as far as to say that some choices are entirely free and cannot be predicted scientifically.\nBerlin presented his views in a 1953 lecture at the London School of Economics, published soon afterwards. When speaking he referred to Ludwig Wittgenstein's views, but the published version speaks approvingly of Karl Popper, which caused a stir among academics.\n\nThomas Carlyle has espoused the \"heroic view\" of history, famously saying in his essay on the Norse god Odin in his book \"On heroes, hero-worship, & the heroic in history\" that \"No great man lives in vain. The History of the world is but the Biography of great men ... We do not now call our great men Gods, nor admire \"without\" limit; ah no, \"with\" limit enough! But if we have no great men, or do not admire at all,— that were a still worse case.\"\nCarlyle's historical philosophy was based on the \"Great Man theory\", saying, \"Universal History, the history of what man has accomplished in the world ... [is] at bottom the History of the Great Men who have worked here.\"\nAn extreme believer in individuality, he also believed that the masses of people should let themselves be guided by the great leaders of men.\nTalking of poets he said,\n\nMore recently, in his 1943 book \"The Hero in History\", the pragmatist scholar Sidney Hook asserts:\n\nHook recognizes the relevance of the environment within which the \"great man\" or \"hero\" acted, but asserts that this can provide the backdrop but never the plot of the \"dramas of human history\". and distinguish life and species\n\nThere have been rankings of the significance of major historical figures. For example, Cesar A. Hidalgo and colleagues at the MIT Media Lab has calculated the memorability of historical figures using data such as the number of language editions for which there are articles for each person, the pageviews received, and other factors. These lists are available at MIT's Pantheon project.\n\nIt is sometimes hard to discern whether apparently historical figures from the earliest periods did in fact exist, due to the lack of records. Even with more recent personages, stories or anecdotes about the person often accumulate that have no basis in fact. Although the external aspects of a historical figure may be well documented, their inner nature can only be a subject of speculation. With religious figures, often the subjects of voluminous literature, separating \"fact\" from \"belief\" can be difficult if not impossible.\n\nWith older texts it can be difficult to be sure whether a person in the text is, in fact, a historical figure. \"Wisdom literature\" from early middle-eastern cultures (such as the Book of Job), mainly consist of verbal expositions or discussions that must be considered the work of the author, rather than the character supposedly speaking. It may still be possible to identify a figure in such texts with a historical figure known from some other context, and the text may be taken as informative about this figure, even if not verified by an independent source. On the other hand, a text may include realistic settings and references to historical people, while the central character may or may not be a historical figure.\n\nNapoleon spoke of history as being a fable which had been agreed upon:– \"la fable convenue qu'on appellera l'histoire\". Great figures of the past have stories told about them which grow in the telling, and so become myths and legends which may dominate or displace the more prosaic historical facts about them. For example, some ancient chroniclers said that the Emperor Nero fiddled while Rome burned, but Tacitus disputed this by saying the stories were just malicious rumours. Similarly, there is no good evidence that Marie-Antoinette ever said \"let them eat cake\", or that Lady Godiva rode naked through the streets of Coventry.\n\nThomas Carlyle pointed out that even to the person living it, every life \"remains in so many points unintelligible\". The historian must struggle when writing biographies, \"the very facts of which, to say nothing of the purport of them, we know not, and cannot know!\"\nSome psychologists have sought to understand the personalities of historical figures through clues about the way in which they were raised. However, this theoretical psychoanalytic approach is not supported empirically. An alternative approach, favored by psychobiographers such as William Runyan, is to explain the personality of the historical figure in terms of their life history. This approach has the advantage of recognizing that personality may evolve over time in response to events.\n\nWith historical religious figures, fact and belief may be difficult to disentangle.\nThere are cultural differences in the treatment of historical figures. Thus the Chinese can recognise that Mencius or Confucius were historical individuals, while also endowing them with sanctity. In Indian Hinduism, on the other hand, figures such as Krishna or Rama are almost always seen as embodiments of gods rather than as historical people. The Nirvana Sutra states: \"Do not rely on the man but on the Dharma.\" A teacher such as Gautama Buddha is thus treated almost exclusively as a lesser god rather than a historical figure.\n\nE. P. Sanders, author of \"The Historical Figure of Jesus\", called Jesus of Nazareth \"one of the most important figures in human history\". Various writers have struggled to present \"historical\" views of Jesus, as opposed to views distorted by belief. When writing about this subject, a historian who relies only on sources other than the New Testament may be criticized for implying that it is not a sufficient source of information about the subject.\n\nThe theologian Martin Kähler is known for his work \"Der sogenannte historische Jesus und der geschichtliche, biblische Christus\" (The so-called historical Jesus, and the historic, biblical Christ). He clearly distinguished between \"the Jesus of history\" and \"the Christ of faith\". Some historians openly admit bias, which may anyway be unavoidable. Paul Hollenback says he writes about the historical Jesus, \"...in order to overthrow, not simply correct, the mistake called Christianity.\" Another historian who has written about Jesus, Frederick Gaiser, says, \"historical investigation is part and parcel of biblical faith.\"\n\nA historical figure may be interpreted to support political aims.\nIn France in the first half of the seventeenth century, there was an outpouring of writing about Joan of Arc, including seven biographies, three plays and an epic poem. Joan had become a symbol of national pride and the Catholic faith, helping unite a country that had been divided by the recent wars of religion. The reality of the historical Joan was subordinated to the need for a symbol of feminine strength, Christian virtue and resistance to the English.\nGeorge Bernard Shaw, introducing his 1923 play \"Saint Joan\", discussed representations of Joan by other authors.\nHe felt that William Shakespeare's depiction in \"Henry VI, Part 1\" was constrained from making her a \"beautiful and romantic figure\" by political considerations. Voltaire's version in his poem \"La Pucelle d'Orléans\" was also flawed by Voltaire's biases and Friedrich Schiller's play \"Die Jungfrau von Orleans\" \"is not about Joan at all, and can hardly be said to pretend to be.\"\n\nA historical figure may be used to validate a politician's claim to authority,\nwhere the modern leader shapes and exploits the ideas associated with the historical figure,\nwhich they are presumed to have inherited.\nThus Jesse Jackson has frequently evoked the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr..\nFidel Castro often presented himself as following the path defined by José Martí.\nHugo Chávez of Venezuela has frequently identified himself with the historical figure Simón Bolívar, the liberator of South America from Spanish rule.\n\nHegel believed in the role of the state in guaranteeing individual liberties, and his views were therefore rejected by the German National Socialists, who considered him dangerously liberal and perhaps a proto-Marxist. On the other hand, Adolf Hitler identified himself as a Hegelian world historical figure, and justified his actions on this basis.\n\nPlato used historical figures in his writing, but only to illustrate his points. Xenophon used Cyrus the Great in the same way.\nWhen Plato apparently quotes Socrates in \"The Republic\", it is only to add dramatic effect to the presentation of his own thought. For this reason, Plato's writings on Socrates tell us little, at least directly, about Socrates. The historical figure is used only as a device for communicating Plato's ideas. In classical Rome, students of rhetoric had to master the \"suasoria\" — a form of declamation in which they wrote the soliloquy of a historical figure who was debating a critical course of action. For example, the poet Juvenal wrote a speech for the dictator Sulla, in which he was counselled to retire. The poet Ovid enjoyed this exercise more than the other final challenge — the \"controversia\".\n\nThe German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche wrote an influential essay \"On the Uses and Disadvantages of History for Life\". He said \"the unhistorical and historical are necessary in equal measure for the health of an individual, of a people and of a culture.\"\nNietzsche identifies three approaches to history, each with dangers.\nThe monumental approach describes the glories of the past, often focusing on heroic figures like Elizabeth I of England or Louis Pasteur. \nBy treating these figures as models, the student is tempted to consider that there can be nobody of such stature today.\nThe antiquarian view examines the past in minute and reverent detail, turning its back on the present.\nThe critical approach challenges traditional views, even though they may be valid.\n\nHistorical figures may today be simulated as animated pedagogical agents to teach history and foreign culture. An example is Freudbot, which acted the part of Sigmund Freud for psychology students. When a variety of simulated character types were tried as educational agents, students rated historical figures as the most engaging.\nThere are gender differences in the perception of historical figures. When modern US schoolchildren were asked to roleplay or illustrate historical stereotypes, boys tended to focus upon male figures exclusively while girls showed more varied family groupings.\n\nUsing historical figures in marketing communicationsn and in branding is a new area of marketing research but historical figures’ names were used to promote products as early as in the Middle Ages. \n\nHistorical figure brand is using famous historical person in branding, for instance Mozartkugel, Chopin (vodka) or Café Einstein https://www.cafeeinstein.com/. \n\nHistorical figure is a person who lived in the past and whose deeds exerted a significant impact on other people’s lives and consciousness. These figures are attributed with certain features that are a compilation of the actual values they proclaimed and the manner they were perceived by others. This perception evolves and subsequent generations read the biography of a given historical figure in their own way through their own knowledge and experience. In order to determine the popularity of the commercialisation of historical figures, a study was conducted at the beginning of 2014 on the number of trademark protection applications filed with the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland as a measure of entrepreneurs’ interest in this activity. The names of 300 most prominent Polish historical figures were considered. The study showed that over 21% of the names analysed were recorded in the trademark register. 1,033 trademark protection applications were filed for 64 names out of the 300 historical figures investigated [Aldona Lipka, 2015,]. The greatest number of trademark protection applications were recorded for Mieszko (295), followed by Nicolaus Copernicus (250), John III Sobieski (94) and Chopin (81).\n\nThere is a huge body of historical fiction, where the text includes both imaginary and factual elements. In early English literature, Robin Hood was a fictional character, but the historical King Richard I of England also appears.\nWilliam Shakespeare wrote plays about people who were historical figures in his day, such as \"Julius Caesar\". He did not present these people as pure history, but dramatised their lives as a commentary about the people and politics of his own time.\nNapoleon figured in Victor Hugo's 1862 classic \"Les Misérables\".\nThere are many more examples.\n\nThe compiler of a survey of historical novels in the 1920s claimed that the \"appearance of reality ... is the great charm of the historical novel.\" He went on to assert, regarding novels about periods of which little is known, that \"the danger is that the very elements which add to our interest in the tale as such will go far to mislead us in our conception of the period dealt with\".\nTraditionally the treatment of historical figures in fiction was realistic in style and respectful of fact. A historical novel would be true to the facts known about the period in which the novel is set, a biographical novel would follow the facts that are known about the protagonist's life, and a \"roman à clef\" would try to give an accurate interpretation of what is known about a public figure's private life. In each genre, the novelist would avoid introducing any elements that were clearly in conflict with the facts.\n\nA writer may be handicapped by his readers' preconceptions about a historical person, which may or may not be accurate, and the facts about the historical person may also conflict with the novelist's plot requirements.\nAccording to the Marxist philosopher György Lukács in his 1937 book on \"The Historical Novel\", \"The 'world-historical individual' can only figure as a minor character in the [historical] novel because of the complexity and intricacy of the whole social-historical process.\"\nAs Jacobs observes, the \"realist aesthetic\" of the historical novel \"assumes that a recognizable historical figure in fiction must not 'do things' its model did not do in real life; it follows that historical figures can be used only in very limited ways.\"\nThe author of a traditional historical novel should therefore focus more on the people who have been lost to history.\nA novelist such as Sir Walter Scott or Leo Tolstoy (\"War and Peace\") would describe historical events accurately. They would give rein to their imagination only in scenes that were not significant historically, when interactions with fictional characters could safely be introduced.\n\nMore recently, however, starting with works such as \"The Confessions of Nat Turner\", and \"Sophie's Choice\" by William Styron,\nthe novelist has felt more free to introduce much larger amounts of purely imaginary detail about historical people.\nE. L. Doctorow illustrates this different attitude when discussing his book \"Ragtime\": \"Certain details were so delicious that I was scrupulous about getting them right. Others ... demanded to be mythologized.\" This reflects a changing attitude about the distinction between \"fact\" and \"truth\", expressed by Ursule Molinaro when he makes his Cassandra say, \"I've come as close to the truth as facts would let me ... facts oppress the truth, which can breathe freely only in poetry & art.\"\n\nMany films have depicted historical figures. Often the way in which the films interpret these figures and their times reflects the social and cultural values of the period in which the film was made.\nHistorical figures are familiar to the general reader and so may be used in speculative fiction so that readers marvel at their appearance in novel settings or with a fresh perspective.\nFor example, the time traveler The Doctor has encountered numerous historical figures such as Marco Polo and Queen Elizabeth I in his adventures.\nThey appeared most frequently when the television series first started, as it was directed at children and the use of historical figures in historical settings was intended to be educational.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7226514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7226514", "title": "Hotu Matu'a", "text": "Hotu Matu'a\n\nHotu Matu'a was the legendary first settler and \"ariki mau\" (\"supreme chief\" or \"king\") of Easter Island and ancestor of the Rapa Nui people. Hotu Matu'a and his two canoe (or one double hulled canoe) colonising party were Polynesians from the now unknown land of Hiva (probably the Marquesas). They landed at Anakena beach and his people spread out across the island, sub-divided it between clans claiming descent from his sons, and lived for more than a thousand years in their isolated island home at the southeastern tip of the Polynesian Triangle.\n\nPolynesians first came to Rapa Nui (also called Easter Island) sometime between 300 CE and 800 CE. These are the common elements of oral history that have been extracted from island legends. Linguistic, DNA and pollen analysis all point to a Polynesian first settlement of the island at that time, but it is unlikely that other details can be verified. During this era the Polynesians were colonising islands across a vast expanse of the Pacific Ocean. \"Hotu Matuʻa\" led his people from Hiva; linguistic analysis comparing Rapanui to other Polynesian languages suggests this was the Marquesas Islands.\n\nHau-Maka had a dream in which his spirit traveled to a far country, to help look for new land for King \"Hotu Matu'a\". He traveled to the \"Mata ki te rangi\" (\"Eyes that look to the sky\"). The island has also been called \"Te pito o te henua\", which means \"the Center of the Earth.\" Both islands are commonly said to be Easter Island.\n\nWhen Hau-Maka woke, he told the King. The King then ordered seven men to travel to the island from Hiva, their mythical home, to investigate. They found the land and returned to Hiva. The king himself then traveled to the new island. The king traveled with his queen, Vakai (Vakai-a-hiva).\n\nThe resemblance of the name to an early Mangarevan founder god, \"Atu Motua\" (\"Father Lord\"), has made some historians suspect that Hotu Matuʻa was added to Easter Island mythology only in the 1860s, along with adopting the Mangarevan language. The \"real\" founder would have been \"Tuʻu ko Iho\", who became just a supporting character in the Hotu Matuʻa centric legends.\n\nThere is considerable uncertainty about the accuracy of this legend as well as the date of settlement. Published literature suggests the island was settled around 300-400 CE, or at about the time of the arrival of the earliest settlers in Hawaii. Some scientists say that Easter Island was not inhabited until 700-800 CE. This date range is based on glottochronological calculations and on three radiocarbon dates from charcoal that appears to have been produced during forest clearance activities, while a recent study, with radiocarbon dates from what is thought to be very early material, proves the island was settled by 1200 CE. This seems to be supported by the latest information on island's deforestation that could have started around the same time. Any earlier human activity seems to be insignificant or low impact.\n\nThe Norwegian ethnographer Thor Heyerdahl pointed out many cultural similarities between Easter Island and South American Indian cultures which he suggested might have resulted from some settlers arriving also from the continent. According to local legends, a group of long-eared unknown men referred to as \"hanau eepe\" had arrived on the island sometime after Polynesians, introducing the stone carving technology and attempting to enslave the local Polynesians. Some early accounts of the legend place \"hanau epe\" as the original residents and Polynesians as later immigrants coming from Oparo. After mutual suspicions erupted in a violent clash, the \"hanau eepe\" were overthrown and exterminated, leaving only one survivor. The first description of island's demographics by Jacob Roggeveen in 1722 still claimed that the population consisted of two distinctive ethnic groups, one being clearly Polynesian and the other \"white\" with so lengthened earlobes that they could tie them behind their necks. Roggeveen also noted how some of the islanders were \"generally large in stature\". Islanders' tallness was also witnessed by the Spanish who visited the island in 1770, measuring heights of 196 and 199 cm (6.4 and 6.5 ft).\n\nThe fact that sweet potatoes, a staple of the Polynesian diet, and several other domestic plants - up to 12 in Easter Island - are of South American origin indicates that there may have been some contact between the two cultures. Either Polynesians have traveled to South America \"and\" back, or South American balsa rafts have drifted to Polynesia, possibly unable to make a return trip because of their less developed navigational skills and more fragile boats, or both. Polynesian connections in South America have been noticed among the Mapuche Indians in central and southern Chile. The Polynesian name for the small islet of Salas y Gómez (\"Manu Motu Motiro Hiva\", \"Bird's islet on the way to a far away land\") \"east\" of Easter Island has also been seen as a hint that South America was known before European contacts. Further complicating the situation is that the word \"Hiva\" (\"far away land\") was also the name of the islanders' legendary home country. Inexplicable insistence on an eastern origin for the first inhabitants was unanimous among the islanders in all early accounts.\n\nMainstream archeology is skeptical about any non-Polynesian influence on the island's prehistory, although the discussion has become political. DNA sequence analysis of Easter Island's current inhabitants (a tool not available in Heyerdahl's time) offers strong evidence of Polynesian origins. However, since few islanders survived the 19th century slave raids, epidemics and deportations (perhaps only 0.25% of the peak population), this evidence depends on how representative the survivors were of the general Rapanui population.\n\n\n4 The Mystery of Easter Island - Katherine Routledge 1919\n"}
{"id": "28960432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28960432", "title": "Iwo Kingdom", "text": "Iwo Kingdom\n\nThe Iwo Kingdom is a traditional state based on the city of Iwo in Osun State, Nigeria. The Yoruba kingdom, whose ruler is titled \"Oluwo of Iwo\", was established in the 14th century AD.\n\nThe Iwo people, like all other people of Yoruba stock are said to have originally belonged to Ile-Ife from where they migrated sometime in the 14th century. The earliest settlement was founded by Adekola Telu, son of the 16th Ooni of Ife, a female called Luwo Gbagida.\nThe present city of Iwo was founded in the 16th or 17th century.\n\nRulers of Iwo were:\n\n9 November 2015 till present Oba Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi Ilufemiloye Telu 1 from Molaasan Royal family a sub.section of Gbaase ruling house was installed as the 16th Oluwo of Iwoland\n"}
{"id": "2666125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666125", "title": "Jean-François Barrière", "text": "Jean-François Barrière\n\nJean-François Barrière (12 May 1786 – 22 August 1868) was a French historian. He wrote about the French revolution, most notably an annotated biography of Madame Roland entitled \"Memoirs de Madame Roland, Avec une Notice sur sa Vie, des Notes et des Eclaircissemens historiques par MM. Saint-Albin Berville et Jean-François Barrière\", edited and published in 1827 by Honoré de Balzac.\n\nBarrière served 18 years in the Préfecture of Paris, rising through the ranks to become division chief. He was removed from office and forced to retire following the Revolution of 1848.\n"}
{"id": "18302096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18302096", "title": "Katharine Jex-Blake", "text": "Katharine Jex-Blake\n\nKatharine Jex-Blake (18 November 1860 – 26 March 1951), was an English classical scholar, mistress of Girton College, Cambridge.\n\nKatharine Jex-Blake was born in 1860 at Rugby School, one of nine daughters and two sons of Thomas Jex-Blake (1832–1915), the school master and later head master at Rugby school and his wife Henrietta Cordery. Her aunt was Sophia Jex-Blake. She was educated with her sisters at Rugby School before reading classics at Girton College, Cambridge, 1879–1883.\n\nShe then taught for a year at Notting Hill and Bayswater High School, a school owed by the Girls' Public Day School Trust. In 1885 she returned to Girton as the Resident Classics lecturer, later becoming the Director of Studies in Classics from 1901–1919; Vice-Mistress, 1903–1916; and Mistress of the College, 1916–1922. In 1896 she published a translation of Pliny the Elder's \"Chapters on the History of Art\" in collaboration with her friend Eugenie Sellers.\n\nHer influence extended beyond Girton as some her students became the classics lecturers at Girton, Newnham College, Bedford College, Royal Holloway, Somerville College and Lady Margaret Hall in the 1920s.\n\nUpon her retirement from Girton in 1922, Katharine Jex-Blake donated a sum for what became the Jex-Blake fellowship. She became a governor of the College and also sat on its Council. She was made an honorary fellow in 1932. From 1925-1937 she was an active member of the Council of her former employers, the Girls' Public Day School Trust and was later elected a vice-president of the Trust. She died at Hurstpierpoint, Sussex in 1951.\n\n\nNorfolk Record Office holds correspondence between Katharine and her sisters, Henrietta and Violet Jex-Blake, in the papers of the Jex-Blake family (REF: MC 233/36).\n\n"}
{"id": "13786015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13786015", "title": "Legacy of the Indo-Greeks", "text": "Legacy of the Indo-Greeks\n\nThe legacy of the Indo-Greeks starts with the formal end of the Indo-Greek Kingdom from the 1st century CE, as the Greek communities of central Asia and northwestern India lived under the control of the Kushan branch of the Yuezhi, apart from a short-lived invasion of the Indo-Parthian Kingdom. The Kushans founded the Kushan Empire, which was to prosper for several centuries. In the south, the Greeks were under the rule of the Western Kshatrapas.\n\nIt is unclear how much longer the Greeks managed to maintain a distinct presence in the Indian sub-continent.\n\nThe 36 Indo-Greek kings known through epigraphy or through their coins belong to the period between 180 BCE to 10–20 CE. There are a few hints of a later Indo-Greek political presence in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nTheodamas, known from an inscription on a signet, may have been an Indo-Greek ruler in the Bajaur area in the 1st century CE.\n\nIn the 3rd century, the Scythian Western Satraps seem to have relied on Greeks, such as Yavanesvara (\"Lord of the Greeks\"), who may have been organized in more or less independent \"poleis\".\n\nSome sort of Greek political organization is thought to have existed in the first half of the 4th century after the rule of the Satavahanas. This is also suggested by the Puranas (the Matsya Purana, the Vayu Purana, the Brahmanda Purana, the Vishnu Purana, the Bhagavata Purana) which give a list of the dynasties who ruled following the decline of the Satavahanas: this list includes 8 Yavana kings, thought to be some dynasty of Greek descent, although they are not otherwise known. According to one theory however, the Southern Indian dynasty of the Chalukyas was named after \"Seleukia\" (the Seleucids), their conflict with the Pallava of Kanchi being but a continuation of the conflict between ancient Seleukia and \"Parthians\", the proposed ancestors of Pallavas. Dr. Lewis's theory, based on the mere similarity of names, has not found acceptance at all because the Pallavas were in constant conflict with the Kadambas, prior to the rise of Chalukyas.\n\nSome Greek cities seem to have remained intact under Parthian rule: Isidorus of Charax in his 1st century CE \"Parthian stations\" itinerary described \"Alexandropolis, the metropolis of Arachosia\" as being Greek:\n\nAlso, the city of Alexandria Bucephalus on the Jhelum River is still mentioned in the 1st century Periplus of the Erythraean Sea, as well as in the Roman Peutinger Table.\n\nGreek mercenary soldiers from northwestern India are mentioned in the accounts of the Pandyan Kingdom in Madurai, and described in admiring terms: \"The valiant-eyed Yavanas, whose bodies were strong and of terrible aspect\".\n\nAt the beginning of the 2nd century CE, the Central India Satavahana king Gautamiputra Satakarni (r. 106–130 CE) was described as the \"Destroyer of Sakas (\"Western Kshatrapas\"), Yavanas (\"Indo-Greeks\") and Pahlavas (\"Indo-Parthians\")\" in his inscriptions, suggesting a continued presence of the Indo-Greeks until that time.\nAround 200 CE, the Manu Smriti describes the downfall of the Yavanas, as well as many others:\n\n\"43. But in consequence of the omission of the sacred rites, and of their not consulting Brahmanas, the following tribes of Kshatriyas have gradually sunk in this world to the condition of Shudras;\"\n\"44. (Viz.) the Paundrakas, the Chodas, the Dravidas, the Kambojas, the Yavanas, the Shakas, the Paradas, the Pahlavas, the Chinas, the Kiratas, the Daradas and the Khashas.\" (Manusmritti, X.43–44)\n\nThere are important references to the warring Mleccha hordes of the Yavanas, Sakas, Kambojas, Pahlavas, etc. in the Bala Kanda of the Valmiki Ramayana.\n\nIndologists like Dr H. C. Raychadhury, Dr B. C. Law, Satya Shrava and others see, in these verses, the clear glimpses of the struggles of the Hindus with the mixed invading hordes of the barbaric Sakas, Yavanas, Pahlavas, Kambojas, etc. from north-west. The time frame for these struggles is the 2nd century BCE downwards. Dr Raychadhury fixes the date of the present version of the Valmiki Ramayana around/after the 2nd century CE.\n\nThe invading hordes of the Sakas, Kambojas, Yavanas, Pahlavas, Abhiras, etc. from the north-west had entered Punjab, \"United Province\", Sindhu, Rajasthan and Gujarat in large numbers, wrested political control of northern India from the Indo-Aryans and had established their respective kingdoms and principalities in the land of the Indo-Aryans.\n\nThere is also a distinct prophetic statement in the Mahabharata which says that the Mlechha (Barbaric) kings of the Sakas, Yavanas, Kambojas, Bahlikas, Abhiras, etc. will rule unrighteously in Kaliyuga.\n\nAccording to Dr H. C. Ray Chaudhury, \"this is too clear a statement to be ignored\" or explained away.\n\nThis statement, couched in the form of prophecy in true puranic style, alludes to a historical situation (2nd and 1st century BC downwards) which followed the collapse of Maurya and Shunga dynasties in North India.\nThis chaotic situation of Aryan India is said to have ended with the destruction of these Mlechcha Saka, Kamboja, Yavana and Parsika hordes by king Vikramaditya of Ujjaini (c. 60 BC) as is related by Brihat-Katha-Manjari of the Kashmiri Pandit Kshemendra and Kathasaritsagara of Somadeva, and the establishment of the \"Vikrama era\".\n\nA few common Greek words were adopted in Sanskrit, such as words related to writing and warfare:\nThe \"Avaca\" Kharosthi inscription, found on a Buddhist relic casket, indicates that the old Greek military title of \"strategos\" (\"commander\") had apparently endured the Indo-Scythian invasion and was being used by the Apracarajas of Bajaur during the 1st century CE (the inscription mentions the dedication date of the casket as \"the year 63 of the late Maharaja Aya\", Aya being the Indo-Scythian ruler Azes I, who started the Vikrama era in 58 BCE, therefore suggesting a date around 5 CE). The dedication mentions \"vaga stratego puyaite viyayamitro ya\" i.e. \"The Lord Commander (Stratego) Viyayamitra is honored too\".\n\nThe Greek philosopher Apollonius of Tyana is related by Philostratus in \"Life of Apollonius Tyana\" to have visited India, and specifically the city of Taxila around 46 CE. He describes constructions of the Greek type,\nprobably referring to Sirkap, and explains that the Indo-Parthian king of Taxila, named Phraotes, received a Greek education at the court of his father and spoke Greek fluently:\n\nLastly, from the Rabatak inscription we have the following information, tending to indicate that Greek was still in official use until the time of Kanishka (c. 120 CE):\n\nA Greek \"Yona\" calendar era seems to have been in use in Northwestern Indian for several centuries following the foundation of the Indo-Greek kingdom. A recently discovered inscription in Kharoshthi on a Buddhist reliquary gives a relationship between several eras of the period:\n\nAs the Azes era is usually considered identical to the Vikrama era starting in 58 BCE, the Yona era would correspond to 186 BCE, which falls in the reign of Demetrius I, although dates ranging from 186 to 150 BCE are still debated. The inscription would date to c. 15 CE.\n\nA second inscription, called the Maghera inscription, found in the Mathura district, is dated to the year 116 of the \"Era of the Greeks\" (\"Yavanarajyasya sodasuttare varsasate 100 10 6), which would correspond to 70 BCE.\n\nThe names of the months belonging to the Ancient Macedonian calendar remained in use under the Indo-Scythians and the Kushans until around the 2nd century CE. For example the Indo-Scythian Taxila copper plate inscription uses the Macedonian month of \"Panemos\". Later, the Dast-i Nawur inscription mentioning the Kushan king Vima Kadphises (reigned circa 90–100 CE) is dated to the 279th year (possibly in the Yona era, which would make it 93 CE, but alternatively in \"the Great Arya era\" mentioned by Kanishka in the Rabatak inscription, possibly an era started by Mithridates I which would give 108 CE), and the 15th day of the month of \"Gorpaios\" (Γορπιαίος), which is the 11th month of the Macedonian calendar, corresponding to the moon of August.\n\nOne of the earliest Indian writings on astronomy and astrology (although not the earliest, as the \"Vedanga Jyotisha\" is dated to around 135 BCE), titled the \"Yavanajataka\" or \"The Saying of the Greeks\", is a translation from Greek to Sanskrit made by \"Yavanesvara\" (\"Lord of the Greeks\") in 149–150 CE under the rule of the Western Kshatrapa king Rudrakarman I. The Yavanajataka contains instructions on calculating astrological charts (horoscopes) from the time and place of one's birth. Astrology flourished in the Hellenistic world (particularly Alexandria) and the Yavanajataka reflects astrological techniques developed in the Greek-speaking world. Various astronomical and mathematical methods, such as the calculation of the 'horoskopos' (the zodiac sign on the eastern horizon), were used in the service of astrology.\n\nAnother set of treatises, the Paulisa Siddhanta and the Romaka Siddhantas, are attributed to later Greco-Roman influence in India. The Paulisa Siddhanta has been tentatively identified with the works of Paulus Alexandrinus, who wrote a well-known astrological hand-book.\n\nIndian astronomy is widely acknowledged to be influenced by the Alexandrian school, and its technical nomenclature is essentially Greek. Several other Indian texts show appreciation for the scientific knowledge of the \"Yavana\" Greeks.\n\nOverall, the coinage of the Indo-Greeks remained extremely influential for several centuries throughout the Indian subcontinent:\n\n\nThe latest use of the Greek script on coins corresponds to the rule of the Turkish Shahi of Kabul, around 850.\n\nLimited population genetics studies have been made on genetic markers such as Y-DNA in the populations of the Indian subcontinent, to estimate the contribution of the Greeks to the genetic pool. Although some of the markers which are present in a large proportion of Greeks today have not been found, the Greek genetic contribution to the Punjab region has been estimated to be up to 15%:\n\nSome pockets of Greek populations probably remained for some time, and to this day, some communities in the Hindu Kush claim to be descendants of the Greeks, such as the Kalash and Hunza in Pakistan, and the neighbouring Nuristani in Afghanistan. \n\nAlthough the political power of the Greeks had waned in the north, mainly due to nomadic invasions, trade relations between the Mediterranean and India continued for several centuries. The trade started by Eudoxus of Cyzicus in 130 BCE kept on increasing, and according to Strabo (II.5.12), by the time of Augustus, up to 120 ships were setting sail every year from Myos Hormos to India. So much gold was used for this trade, and apparently recycled by the Kushans for their own coinage, that Pliny (NH VI.101) complained about the drain of specie to India. In practice, this trade was still handled by Greek middlemen, as all the recorded names of ship captains for the period are Greek.\n\nAlso various exchanges are recorded between India and Rome during this period. In particular, embassies from India, as well as several missions from \"Sramanas\" to the Roman emperors are known (see Buddhism and the Roman world). Finally, Roman goods and works of art found their way to the Kushans, as archaeological finds in Begram have confirmed.\n\nThe \"Kanishka casket\", dated to the first year of Kanishka's reign in 127 CE, was signed by a Greek artist named \"Agesilas\", who oversaw work at Kanishka's stupas (caitya), confirming the direct involvement of Greeks with Buddhist realizations at such a late date.\n\nGreek representations and artistic styles, with some possible admixtures from the Roman world, continued to maintain a strong identity down to the 3rd–4th century, as indicated by the archaeological remains of such sites as Hadda in eastern Afghanistan.\n\nThe Greco-Buddhist image of the Buddha was transmitted progressively through Central Asia and China until it reached Japan in the 6th century.\n\nNumerous elements of Greek mythology and iconography, introduced in northwestern India by the Indo-Greeks through their coinage at the very least, were then adopted throughout Asia within a Buddhist context, especially along the Silk Road. The Japanese Buddhist deity Shukongoshin, one of the wrath-filled protector deities of Buddhist temples in Japan, is an interesting case of transmission of the image of the famous Greek god Herakles to the Far-East along the Silk Road. The image of Herakles was introduced in India with the coinage of Demetrius and several of his successors, used in Greco-Buddhist art to represent Vajrapani the protector of the Buddha, and was then used in Central Asia, China and Japan to depict the protector gods of Buddhist temples.\n\nThe impact of the Indo-Greeks on Indian thought and religion is unknown, although many influences have been suggested. Scholars believe that Mahayana Buddhism as a distinct movement began around the 1st century BCE in the North-western Indian subcontinent, corresponding to the time and place of Indo-Greek florescence. Intense multi-cultural influences have indeed been suggested in the appearance of Mahayana. According to Richard Foltz, \"Key formative influences on the early development of the Mahayana and Pure Land movements, which became so much part of East Asian civilization, are to be sought in Buddhism's earlier encounters along the Silk Road\". As Mahayana Buddhism emerged, it received \"influences from popular Hindu devotional cults (bhakti), Persian and Greco-Roman theologies which filtered into India from the northwest\". Many of the early Mahayana theories of reality and knowledge can be related to Greek philosophical schools of thought: Mahayana Buddhism has been described as \"the form of Buddhism which (regardless of how Hinduized its later forms became) seems to have originated in the Greco-Buddhist communities of India, through a conflation of the Greek Democritean-Sophistic-Skeptical tradition with the rudimentary and unformalized empirical and skeptical elements already present in early Buddhism\".\nHowever, this view can hardly explain the origin of the bodhisattva ideal, already delineated in the Aagamas, which also already contained a well-developed theory of selflessness (anaatman) and emptiness (shunyaata), none of these essential Mahayaana tenets being traceable to Greek roots.\n\n"}
{"id": "41486373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41486373", "title": "List of countries that have used postal orders", "text": "List of countries that have used postal orders\n\nThis is a list of countries that have used postal orders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1006790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1006790", "title": "Marcus Tullius Tiro", "text": "Marcus Tullius Tiro\n\nMarcus Tullius Tiro (died c. 4 BC) was first a slave, then a freedman of Cicero. He is frequently mentioned in Cicero's letters. After Cicero's death he published his former master's collected works. He also wrote a considerable number of books himself, and possibly invented an early form of shorthand.\n\nThe date of Tiro's birth is uncertain. Jerome dates it to 103 BC, which would make him only a little younger than Cicero. However, he was probably born considerably later than that: Cicero refers to him as an \"excellent young man\" (\"adulescentem probum\") in 50 BC.\n\nIt is possible that Tiro was born a slave in Cicero's household in Arpinum and came with his family to Rome. However we do not know for sure that he was a \"verna\" (homegrown slave). Cicero refers to Tiro frequently in his letters. His duties included taking dictation, deciphering Cicero's handwriting and managing his table, as well as his garden and financial affairs. Cicero remarks on how useful he is to him in his work and studies. \n\nHe was freed in 53 BC and accompanied Cicero to Cilicia during Cicero's governorship there, although he was frequently separated from his patron due to poor health, and many of Cicero's letters refer with concern to his illnesses.\n\nBy 43 BC, Tiro had bought an estate near Puteoli, where Jerome says he died in 4 BC at the age of ninety-nine.\n\nHe is believed to have collected and published Cicero's work after his death, and, it seems, was a prolific writer himself: several ancient writers refer to works of Tiro, now lost. Aulus Gellius says, \" [he] wrote several books on the usage and theory of the Latin language and on miscellaneous questions of various kinds,\" and quotes him on the difference between Greek and Latin names for certain stars. Asconius Pedianus, in his commentaries on Cicero's speeches, refers to a biography of Cicero by Tiro in at least four books, and Plutarch refers to him as a source for two incidents in Cicero's life. \n\nHe is credited with inventing the shorthand system of Tironian notes, later used by Medieval monks, among others. There is no clear evidence that he did, although Plutarch credits Cicero's clerks as the first Romans to record speeches in shorthand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46321926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46321926", "title": "Marine Isotope Stage 13", "text": "Marine Isotope Stage 13\n\nMarine Isotope Stage 13 or MIS 13 is a Marine isotope stage in the geologic temperature record, in Britain covering the Cromerian interglacial period between ~524,000 and 474,000 years ago. It is split into three substages, MIS 13a MIS 13b, and MIS 13c. Some records indicate that MIS 13a was an unstable warm peak with a cold split in the middle at MIS 13.12 - separating warm MIS 13.11 and 13.13\n\nBritain\n\nHigh Lodge, Suffolk\n\nWaverley Wood, Warwickshire\n\nHappisburgh 1, Norfolk\n\nBoxgrove, West Sussex\n\nEarly domination of birch, pine, and spruce. Mixed-oak forests follow (predominantly Alder, Oak, Hornbeam, and Hazel).\n\nMammals\n"}
{"id": "32444377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32444377", "title": "Mario Belgrano", "text": "Mario Belgrano\n\nMario Belgrano (April 7, 1884 in Paris – 1947 in Buenos Aires) was an Argentine historian.\n\nHis parents were Juan Carlos Belgrano Martínez and Gregoria Flora \"Florita\" Vega Belgrano y Belgrano, and his brothers were Manuel Belgrano Vega, Néstor Belgrano Vega and Mario Belgrano Vega. He got married with Blanca Cigorraga Pondal in May 15, 1919, and his sons were Mario Carlos Belgrano Cigorraga, Miguel Manuel Belgrano Cigorraga and Blanca Flora Belgrano Cigorraga.\n\nHe wrote books about the 19th century general Manuel Belgrano. He worked at the National Academy of History of Argentina and the Belgranian National Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "27901927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27901927", "title": "Michael Kazin", "text": "Michael Kazin\n\nMichael Kazin (born June 6, 1948) is an American historian, and professor at Georgetown University. He is co-editor of \"Dissent\" magazine.\n\nKazin was born in New York City in 1948 and grew up in Englewood, New Jersey. He is the son of literary critic Alfred Kazin.\n\nHe graduated from Dwight-Englewood School in 1966 and received the school's Distinguished Alumni Award in 2006. He received a B.A. in Social Studies from Harvard, an M.A. in History from Portland State University, and a Ph.D. in History from Stanford. As a Harvard student he was a leader in Students for a Democratic Society and briefly a member of the Weatherman faction.\n\nKazin's research interests are American social movements of the 19th and 20th centuries, and he has authored books on labor history (\"Barons of Labor: The San Francisco Building Trades and Union Power in the Progressive Era\"); populism (\"The Populist Persuasion: An American History\"), and William Jennings Bryan, (\"A Godly Hero: The Life of William Jennings Bryan\").\n\nKazin wrote an unsympathetic review of Howard Zinn's 1980 book \"A People's History of the United States\", with the comment: \"Bad history, albeit gilded with virtuous intentions.\"\n\nHis book \"War Against War: The American Fight for Peace, 1914-1918\" was published by Simon and Schuster on November 1, 2016.\n\nKazin is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America.\n\nKazin married physician Beth C. Horowitz in 1980. They have two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "43303805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43303805", "title": "Mieczysław Albert Krąpiec", "text": "Mieczysław Albert Krąpiec\n\nMieczysław Albert Maria Krąpiec OP (born May 25, 1921 in Berezowica Mała near Ternopil, dead May 8, 2008 in Lublin) – a Polish Roman Catholic priest, philosopher (thomist), theologian, humanist and social scientist, the rector of Katolicki Uniwersytet Lubelski (1970-1983), the founder of the Lublin Philosophical School, the initiator and president of the scientific committee of \"Powszechna Encyklopedia Filozofii\".\n\nPolish Society of Thomas Aquinas\n"}
{"id": "7019463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7019463", "title": "Modesto Lafuente y Zamalloa", "text": "Modesto Lafuente y Zamalloa\n\nModesto Lafuente y Zamalloa (born at Rabanal de los Caballeros, Cervera de Pisuerga, Palencia Province on 1 May 1806; died at Madrid, 25 October 1866) was a Spanish critic and historian.\n\nHe received his early education in his native town, but later took courses at the Universities of Santiago, Astorga and Valladolid, receiving at the last institution the degree of Bachelor of Theology in 1832.\nHe was appointed to the chair of philosophy and later to that of theology at the University of Astorga, but he remained only a short time, for he decided to devote himself to journalism, and moved to Madrid.\n\nUnder the pseudonyms of Fray Gerundio and Pelegrin Tirabeque, he wrote many \"capilladas\" or essays on a great variety of subjects, including the political questions of the day. According to Ferrer del Rio, he borrowed the pseudonym Fray Gerundio from the work of Father Isla. His essays, and all his works, were written in an easy, flowing, popular style, and they became so popular that it was not long before his paper was read in every corner of Spain. The essays were collected as \"Capilladas\" (1837–40) and as \"Teatro social del siglo XIX\" (1846), the latter dealing with the manners and customs of the day.\n\nLafuente's chief work, by which he is best known, is his \"Historia general de España\", which he published in Madrid (1850–1869, 30 volumes). A second edition (13 volumes) was published in 1874–1875. It was later edited and revised by Juan Valera (25 vols., 1887–90).\nAnother notable work is \"Viaje aerostático del Fray Gerundio y Tirabeque\". It is divided into two parts, the first being a review of aerial navigation, and the second, a satire on the political situation in Europe.\nThe important events of 1848 caused him to write his \"Revista Europea\" which he published as a periodical for about one year.\n\n"}
{"id": "4683615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4683615", "title": "Motiejus Valančius", "text": "Motiejus Valančius\n\nMotiejus Valančius (, also known by his pen-name \"Joteika\" and \"Ksiądz Maciek\"; 1801–1875) was a Catholic bishop of Samogitia, historian and one of the best known Lithuanian/Samogitian writers of the 19th century.\n\nMotiejus Valančius was born February 16, 1801, into a well-to-do peasant family in Nasrėnai village, Kretinga district. Early in his youth, he had his baptismal records altered to indicate noble birth; the family name was Polonized to \"Wołonczewski\". This practice, not uncommon among prosperous villagers, was a means of providing educational opportunities otherwise denied to peasant children. In 1816 he entered the Dominican school at Žemaičių Kalvarija and six years later began his studies at the Theological Seminary in Varniai. He transferred to the Vilnius Priest Seminary in 1824, from which he graduated in 1828. Ordained a priest that same year, he spent the next six years teaching religion in Belarus. In 1834 he returned to Lithuania to take up a teaching position at the Kražiai College.\n\nIn 1840 he was assigned to the Vilnius Theological Seminary, where he lectured in pastoral theology and biblical archaeology and where he earned his doctorate in theology in 1842. That same year on orders of the Tsar, the Academy, its teaching staff and student body, was moved to St. Petersburg, Russia. Valančius came back to Lithuania because of health problems in 1845 and was appointed rector of the Varniai Theological Seminary, serving in this capacity until 1850. Having been absent from Lithuania during the anti-Russian uprising in 1831, Valančius was considered to be relatively apolitical, and thus the Russian government did not object when he was proposed as Episcopal candidate for the see of Samogitia.\n\nHe was consecrated bishop in 1850, the first peasant to head over that diocese. Taking up his duties, he guided the diocese for the next 25 years, years of religious, political and social change not only within Samogitia but in Lithuania as a whole. He expanded and improved the Samogitian parochial school network, wrote many religious books, and in 1858 inaugurated a temperance movement, which grew to encompass nearly a million members, almost half of the county’s population. he also wrote first Lithuanian language history of Samogitian diocese, that has not lost its scientific value until nowadays.\n\nHis pastoral and educational work was interrupted by the uprising of 1863–1864 and was made extremely difficult as the Russian government tightened its reins after the collapse of the revolt. Yet these circumstances did not prevent him from following a course which could not but bring him into direct conflict with the authorities. He made every effort to undermine the government’s scheme of Russification. In 1874 Valančius fell ill and died in Kaunas on May 29, 1875. He was interred in the crypt of the Kaunas Cathedral Basilica.\n\nHis services to the Lithuanian cause were lasting and important. His opposition to the Russian government and the tactics he employed in resisting its policies, particularly Lithuanian press ban. He sponsored the illegal practice of printing Lithuanian books in East Prussia and smuggling them into Lithuania by \"knygnešiai\", served to stimulate the emergence of the Lithuanian national movement. An educator, and able Church administrator, historian and ethnographer, and a talented writer, Valančius emerges as one of the most versatile and influential figures in the 19th century Lithuania.\n\n"}
{"id": "51096122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51096122", "title": "Mustafa Ejubović", "text": "Mustafa Ejubović\n\nMustafa Ejubović (1651 – 16 July 1707), also known as Šejh Jujo, was a historian, writer and Mufti of Ottoman Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nMustafa Ejubović was born into a family of ethnic Bosniaks in the Herzegovinian town of Mostar in 1651. His father Jusuf was a distinguished professor. Young Mustafa taught maktab and madrasa in Mostar before departing for Constantinople to study in 1677. There he listened to lectures on philosophy, astronomy and mathematics. When he graduated, he got a professorship at a lower madrasa in Constantinople, became famous for his lectures, and soon began to teach. Ejubović wrote 27 treatises on logic during his lifetime. In addition to his native Bosnian language, he also spoke Arabic, Turkish and Persian.\n\nUpon his return to Bosnia, Ejubović became the Mufti of Mostar in 1692.\n\nEjubović died on 16 July 1707 in the city where he grew up, Mostar.\n"}
{"id": "620299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620299", "title": "Négritude", "text": "Négritude\n\nNégritude is a framework of critique and literary theory, developed mainly by francophone intellectuals, writers, and politicians of the African diaspora during the 1930s. Its initiators included Martinican poet Aimé Césaire, Léopold Sédar Senghor (the first President of Senegal), and Léon Damas of French Guiana. \"Négritude\" intellectuals disavowed colonialism, and argued for the importance of a Pan-African racial identity among people of African descent worldwide. The intellectuals employed Marxist political philosophy, in the black radical tradition. The writers generally used a realist literary style, and some say they were also influenced somewhat by the Surrealist stylistics. In 1932, the manifesto \"Murderous Humanitarianism\" was signed by prominent Surrealists, including the Martinicans Pierre Yoyotte and J. M. Monnerot.\n\n' is a constructed noun from the 1930s based upon the French word \"nègre\", which, as its English counterpart was derogatory and had a different meaning from \"black man\". The movement's use of the word négritude is a way of re-imagining the word as an emic form of empowerment. The term was first used in its present sense by Césaire, in the third issue of \"L'Étudiant noir\", a magazine which he had started in Paris with fellow students Léopold Senghor and Léon Damas, as well as Gilbert Gratiant, Leonard Sainville, Louis T. Achille, Aristide Maugée, and Paulette Nardal. \"L'Étudiant noir\" also includes Césaire's first published work, \"Conscience Raciale et Révolution Sociale\" with the heading \"Les Idées\" and the rubric \"Négreries\", which is notable for its disavowal of assimilation as a valid strategy for resistance and for its use of the word ' as a positive term. The problem with assimilation was that one assimilated into a culture that considered African culture to be barbaric and unworthy of being seen as \"civilized\". The assimilation into this culture would have been seen as an implicit acceptance of this view. \"Nègre\" previously had been used mainly in a pejorative sense. Césaire deliberately incorporated this derogatory word into the name of his philosophy.\n\nIn 1885, Haitian anthropologist Anténor Firmin published an early work \"De l'Égalité des Races Humaines\" (On the Equality of Human Races), which was published as a rebuttal to French writer Count Arthur de Gobineau's \"Essai sur l'inegalite des Races Humaines\" (\"An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\"). Firmin influenced Jean Price-Mars, the initiator of Haitian ethnology and developer of the concept of Indigenism, and 20th-century American anthropologist Melville Herskovits. Black intellectuals have historically been proud of Haiti due to its slave revolution commanded by Toussaint L'Ouverture during the 1790s. Césaire spoke, thus, of Haiti as being \"where négritude stood up for the first time\".\n\nOther diverse thinkers include Charles Baudelaire, André Breton, René Maran, and Arthur Rimbaud. \n\nThe Harlem Renaissance, a literary style developed in Harlem in Manhattan during the 1920s and 1930s, influenced the Negritude philosophy. The Harlem Renaissance's writers, including Langston Hughes and Richard Wright, addressed the themes of \"noireism\" and race relations.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, young black students and scholars, primarily from France's colonies and territories, assembled in Paris, where they were introduced to writers of the Harlem Renaissance by Paulette Nardal and her sister Jane. The Nardal sisters contributed to the Negritude discussions in their writings and also owned the Clamart Salon, a tea-shop venue of the French-Black intelligentsia where Negritude philosophy was often discussed. Paulette Nardal and the Haitian Dr. Leo Sajou initiated \"La revue du Monde Noir\" (1931–32), a literary journal published in English and French, which attempted to appeal to African and Caribbean intellectuals in Paris. This Harlem association was shared by the parallel development of \"negrismo\" in the Spanish-speaking Caribbean region.\n\nAlthough each of the initiators had his own ideas about the purpose and styles of la Négritude, the philosophy was characterized generally by opposition to colonialism, denunciation of Europe's alleged inhumanity, and rejection of Western domination and ideas. The movement also appears to have had some Heideggerian strands in the sense that its goal was to achieve blacks' \"being-in-the-world\", to emphasize that blacks did have a history and a worthy culture capable of standing alongside the cultures of other countries as equals. Also important was the acceptance of and pride in being black and a celebration of African history, traditions, and beliefs. Their literary style was realistic and they cherished Marxist ideas.\n\nMotivation for the Negritude movement was a result of Aimé Césaire’s, Leopold Senghor’s, and Leon Damas’s dissatisfaction, disgust, and personal conflict over the state of black French experience in France. All three shared a personal sense of revolt for the racism and colonial injustices that plagued their world and their French education. Senghor refused to believe that the purpose of his education was \"to build Christianity and civilization in his soul where there was only paganism and barbarism before\". Césaire's disgust came as embarrassment when he was accused by some of the people of the Caribbean as having nothing to do with the people of Africa—whom they saw as savages. They separated themselves from Africa and proclaimed themselves as civilized. He denounced the writers from the Caribbean as \"intellectually... corrupt and literarily nourished with white decadence\". Damas believed this because of the pride these writers would take when a white person could read their whole book and not be able to tell the author's complexion.\n\nCésaire was a poet, playwright, and politician from Martinique. He studied in Paris, where he discovered the black community and \"rediscovered Africa\". He saw la Négritude as the fact of being black, acceptance of this fact, and appreciation of the history and culture, and of black people. It is important to note that for Césaire, this emphasis on the acceptance of the fact of \"blackness\" was the means by which the \"decolonization of the mind\" could be achieved. According to him, western imperialism was responsible for the inferiority complex of blacks. He sought to recognize the collective colonial experience of Blacks—the slave trade and plantation system. Césaire's ideology was especially important during the early years of la Négritude.\n\nNeither Césaire—who after returning to Martinique after his studies was elected mayor of Fort de France, the capital, and a representative of Martinique in France's Parliament—nor Senghor in Senegal envisaged political independence from France. Négritude would, according to Senghor, enable Blacks in French lands to have a \"seat at the give and take [French] table as equals\". However the French eventually presented Senegal and its other African colonies with independence.\n\nPoet and the later first president of Sénégal, Senghor used la Négritude to work toward a universal valuation of African people. He advocated a modern incorporation of the expression and celebration of traditional African customs and ideas. This interpretation of la Négritude tended to be the most common, particularly during later years.\n\nDamas was a French Guianese poet and National Assembly member. He had a militant style of defending \"black qualities\" and rejected any kind of reconciliation with caucasians. Two particular anthologies were pivotal to the movement, which would serve as manifestos for the movement. One was published by Damas in 1946, Poètes d'expression française 1900–1945. Senghor would then go on to publish \"Anthologie de la nouvelle poésie nègre et malgache de langue française\" in 1948. Damas’s introduction to the anthology and the anthology was meant to be a sort of manifesto for the movement, but Senghor's own anthology eventually took that role. Though it would be the “Preface” written by French philosopher and public intellectual Jean-Paul Sartre for the anthology which would propel Negritude into the broader intellectual conversation.\n\nAs a manifesto for the Negritude movement Damas’ introduction was more political and cultural in nature. A distinctive feature of Damas’s anthology and beliefs was that Damas felt that his message was one for the colonized in general, and included poets from Indochina and Madagascar. This is sharply in contrast to Senghor’s anthology which would be published two years later. In the introduction Damas proclaimed that now was the age where \"the colonized man becomes aware of his rights and of his duties as a writer, as a novelist or a storyteller, an essayist or a poet.\" Damas explicitly outlines the themes of the anthology. He says, \"Poverty, illiteracy, exploitation of man by man, social and political racism suffered by the black or the yellow, forced labor, inequalities, lies, resignation, swindles, prejudices, complacencies, cowardice, failure, crimes committed in the name of liberty, of equality, of fraternity, that is the theme of this indigenous poetry in French.\" Damas’ introduction was indeed a calling and affirmation for a distinct cultural identification.\n\nIn 1948, Jean-Paul Sartre analyzed the \"négritude\" philosophy in an essay called \"Orphée Noir\" (\"Black Orpheus\") that served as the introduction to a volume of francophone poetry named \"Anthologie de la nouvelle poésie nègre et malgache\", compiled by Léopold Senghor. In this essay, Sartre characterizes \"négritude\" as the opposite of colonial racism in a Hegelian dialectic and with it he helped to introduce Négritude issues to French intellectuals. In his opinion, \"négritude\" was an \"anti-racist racism\" (\"racisme antiraciste\"), a strategy with a final goal of racial unity.\n\nNégritude was criticized by some black writers during the 1960s as insufficiently militant. Keorapetse Kgositsile said that the term Négritude was based too much on blackness according to a caucasian aesthetic, and was unable to define a new kind of perception of African-ness that would free black people and black art from caucasian conceptualizations altogether.\n\nThe Nigerian dramatist, poet, and novelist Wole Soyinka opposed Négritude. He believed that by deliberately and outspokenly being proud of their ethnicity, black people were automatically on the defensive. According to some, he said: \"Un tigre ne proclame pas sa tigritude, il saute sur sa proie\" (French: A tiger doesn't proclaim its tigerness; it jumps on its prey). But in fact, Soyinka wrote in a 1960 essay for the \"Horn\", “the duiker will not paint ‘duiker’ on his beautiful back to proclaim his duikeritude; you’ll know him by his elegant leap.” \n\nAfter a long period of silence there has been a renaissance of Negritude developed by scholars such as Souleymane Bachir Diagne (Columbia), Donna Jones (Berkeley), and Cheikh Thiam (Ohio State) who all continue the work of Abiola Irele. Cheikh Thiam's book is the only book-length study of Negritude as philosophy. It develops Diagne's reading of Negritude as a philosophy of art, and Jones' presentation of Negritude as a lebensphilosophie.\n\nAmerican physician Benjamin Rush, a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence and early abolitionist, used the term \"negritude\" to imagine a rhetorical \"disease\" which he said was a mild form of leprosy, the only cure of which was to become white. This early use of the term may not have been known by the Francophone blacks who developed the philosophy of Negritude during the 20th century.\n\nNovelist Norman Mailer used the term to describe boxer George Foreman's physical and psychological presence in his book \"The Fight\", a journalistic treatment of the legendary Ali vs. Foreman \"Rumble in the Jungle\" bout in Kinshasa, Zaire (now Democratic Republic of the Congo) in October 1974.\n\n\n\nOriginal texts\n\nSecondary literature\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31910381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31910381", "title": "Oddbjørn Jonstad", "text": "Oddbjørn Jonstad\n\nOddbjørn Jonstad (born 22 January 1944) is a Norwegian politician. He started his political career in 1987 as an Oppegård municipal councillor for the Progress Party, and became the leader of the local chapter in 1995. In 1999 he however came in conflict with the party leadership due to some controversial proposals he made on immigration-issues, which eventually led to his expulsion from the party. He then went on to found the Norwegian People's Party, which did not win public representation.\n\nJonstad was elected to the Oppegård municipal council for the Progress Party in 1987, and became leader of the local chapter in 1995. In 1994 Jonstad proposed to introduce mandatory birth control education for refugees, mainly because they \"make more children than they can support,\" as he had outlined in articles in \"Østlandets Blad\". The Progress Party chairman Carl I. Hagen in turn said he agreed with the \"main views\" of Jonstad. Other proposals made by Jonstad in the municipal council was to make Oppegård a \"Socialist-Free Zone\".\n\nJonstad came in conflict with the leadership of the party in 1999 after he proposed to put asylum seekers and refugees in \"camps\", and to establish schools inside the camps for the children of refugees. Carl I. Hagen soon distanced himself from Jonstad's policies. Jonstad was then suspended from the party on 1 September, and expelled on 17 September after he additionally had worked to create a new party, the Norwegian People's Party. Although he still topped the Progress Party electoral list for the early September local elections, enough Progress Party voters had written him off the list so that he was not elected. Jonstad's new party won just 0.1% of the vote in the 2001 parliamentary election, and in the 2003 local elections he instead headed the local Democrats' list in Oppegård due to a lack of resources (also to no success).\n\nJonstad was born in Naustdal, Sogn og Fjordane, but moved to Oppegård, Akershus in 1979. He is educated a civil engineer, and has written four books of Oppegård-related local history, as well as a local pictorial encyclopedia. After his departure from partisan politics, he has been the leader of the Norwegian Privacy Association (\"Norsk personvernforening\"), and has criticised what he has seen as certain misuse of surveillance cameras. Since 2008 he has hosted various websites where he publishes lists of people he considers to \"support immigration and Islamisation.\"\n"}
{"id": "36524869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36524869", "title": "Osteodontokeratic culture", "text": "Osteodontokeratic culture\n\nThe Osteodontokeratic (\"bone-tooth-horn\", Greek and Latin derivation) culture (ODK) is a hypothesis that was developed by Prof. Raymond Dart (who identified the Taung child fossil in 1924, and published the find in \"Nature\" Magazine in 1925), which detailed the predatory habits of Australopith species in South Africa involving the manufacture and use of osseous implements. Dart envisaged \"Australopithecus africanus\", known from Taung and Sterkfontein caves, and \"Australopithecus prometheus\" (now classified as \"Au. africanus\") from Makapansgat, as carnivorous, cannibalistic predators who utilized bone and horn implements to hunt various animals, such as antelopes and primates, as well as other Australopiths.\n\nIn 1947, Wilfred Eitzman, a local schoolteacher, visited the Makapansgat Limeworks in Limpopo, South Africa, where he collected a number of fossil remains, including those of extinct baboon species, which originated from the Australopith-bearing, Member 3 Grey breccia layers. Eitzman promptly sent some of this fossil material to Prof. Raymond Dart at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg for thorough inspection. Dart examined 58 baboon skulls from Eitzman's collections, and recognized a repeated pattern of depressed fractures on the cranial vaults of a number these specimens. Consistent with this pattern, he also found that 4 out of the 6 known Australopith skulls from the Member 3 layers showed similar cranial fractures, although Dart struggled to find an adequate explanation that would account for the frequency of this damage. Eventually Dart concluded that this pattern could have only resulted from “purposeful violence…inflicted by implements held in the hands,” suggesting that southern African Australopiths used long bones (e.g. femurs and humeri), mandibles, horn cores, etc. as hunting weaponry to satisfy their hyper-carnivorous diets (1949). Thus, the ODK hypothesis implied that the rise of the \"Australopithecus\" genus from 'hominoid' to 'hominin,' meaning from an ‘ape-adaptive grade’ to a more ‘human-adaptive grade,’ was borne from the ability of early hominin species to use tools, more specifically weapons.\n\nDart published numerous journal articles on the subject of the ODK hypothesis, which received considerable backlash from his contemporaries. In 1957, he released a comprehensive volume entitled, \"The Osteodontokeratic Culture of Australopithecus prometheus\" which outlined his arguments for the validity of the \"predatory transition from Ape to Man\" (see Dart 1953). To justify his arguments, Dart relied on critical lines of evidence that substantiated the validity of ODK culture, although his critics would eventually turn his evidence against him to refute the hypothesis altogether (see below). Dart suggested that the breakage patterns of the so-called bone implements from the Member 3 Grey breccia layers from Makapansgat displayed evidence of being purposefully broken by the early Australopiths, through cracking and twisting, while fresh. Dart's opinion was that this damage was in no way characteristic of predatory or scavenging animals (e.g. hyenas), and so must have been the result of early hominin dietary activities, mostly likely to access marrow. Furthermore, after the analysis of over 7,000 faunal remains from the Member 3 Grey breccia material, Dart found a statistical over-representation of certain skeletal elements, such as distal humeri, metapodial bones and mandibles. He concluded that such skewed representational patterns could have only resulted from the selection and transportation of fleshy carcass parts of animals into the Makapansgat cave system by Australopiths. Lastly, Dart assigned specific tool uses to different bones elements, e.g. a 'mace' for antelope humeri, etc., similar to the manner in which Mary Leakey created tool types to account for various core morphologies in the Oldowan assemblages at Olduvai Gorge.\n\nImmediately after the initial publication of Dart’s ODK hypothesis in 1949, a number of his colleagues refuted the idea as an example of interpretation beyond the limits of scientific evidence. Dr. Wilfrid Le Gros Clark (1957) criticized Dart's \"over-emphatic\" writing style, and suggested that his hypothesis relied mainly on the fact that no other feasible hypothesis could make sense of the evidence Dart had complied, rather than on the meticulousness of the scientific methods that Dart used to corroborate the existence of the ODK culture.\n\nDr. Sherwood Washburn conducted field research in the Wankie Game Reserve in Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), where he observed lion kills that were subsequently scavenged by smaller carnivores (e.g. hyenas, jackals and wild dogs). Washburn noted that the process of prey dis-articulation, and in some cases transport, by carnivores was a highly selective process, which produced similar skeletal part representation patterns to those that Dart found in the Member 3 bone assemblages from Makapansgat (cf. Maguire \"et al\". 1980). He published the now well-known article \"Australopithecus: The Hunters or the Hunted?\" (1957) based upon this research, in which Washburn suggested that southern African Australopiths did not actually hunt other animal species, but rather were hunted and accumulated by cave-dwelling carnivores, most likely by hyenas. This was supported by the presence of two extinct hyenid species found in the Member 3 Grey breccia material, \"Pachycrocuta brevirostris\" and \"Hyaena makapani\", as well as the abundance of hyena coprolites within these layers (which had been well-known at the time). Thus, Washburn refuted Dart's ODK hypothesis based upon the same lines of evidence used to support it, and suggested that various hyena species were more likely responsible for the accumulation of bone material in the Australopith-bearing layers at Makapansgat.\n\nDespite such refutations, Dart defended the ODK hypothesis for some time relying upon fieldwork conducted by some of his colleagues that seemed to dismiss the claims of Washburn and others, most notably the hyena bone-collector hypothesis. For example, Alun Hughes (1954), then Dart's assistant, undertook research in the Kruger National Park, South Africa to investigate the bone accumulation habits of hyenid species, reporting that hyenas did not seem to amass bone material inside their dens, and instead consumed prey directly after the kill or in open-air scavenging sites with little evidence of transport behavior (see Dart 1965). Thus, Dart rebutted Washburn's criticisms in arguing that the early Australopiths must have been responsible for the bone accumulations at Makapansgat due to the abundant amount of faunal material found within the cave system, as well as the nature of the breakage patterns. Coupled with the discovery of stone tool assemblages thought to be associated with the robust Australopith species (\"Zinjanthropus boisei,\" now classified under the genus \"Paranthropus\") from Olduvai Gorge by Mary and Louis Leakey, this amounting evidence seemed to sway the argument in Dart’s favor. Furthermore, Dr. John T. Robinson (1959) (a colleague of Dr. Robert Broom at the Transvaal Museum, and a co-founder of the famous adult \"Au. africanus\" skull Sts 5, known as Mrs. Ples), had found a bone tool at Sterkfontein he believed to be used by \"Au. africanus\", which also seemed to corroborate the ODK hypothesis.\n\nHowever, Dart's refutation of the bone-collecting habits of hyenas was short-lived as an overwhelming body of research has found that hyenas do, in fact, accumulate bone material inside caves used as dens. Before Hughes's work in the Kruger National Park, modern zoological research focusing upon hyenas had never been correlated with palaeontological or palaeoanthropological studies of this nature. Due to the inception and on-going significance of taphonomic and palaeozoological research within these fields, it is now well-known and widely accepted that hyenid species transport and accumulate bone material within cave systems used as dens, which can ultimately result in fossil assemblages (see Maguire \"et al\". 1980 and Kuhn \"et al\". 2010).\n\nAmidst the growing contention surrounding the validity of the ODK hypothesis, a young Southern Rhodesian (now Zimbabwe) researcher, Dr. Charles Kimberlin Brain (\"Bob\" Brain) became fascinated with Dart's work describing prehistory's \"predatory ape-men\", and conducted research upon the bone breakage and skeletal element representation patterns expounded in Dart's writings (see above). Brain (1967) examined the remains of goat bones within Hottentot villages in Namibia, finding that the skeletal element representation patterns, which formed the crux of Dart's support for the ODK culture, were more simply explained by the durability and resistance of certain bone elements to soil-chemical weathering and the consumption habits of carnivores. This stimulated Brain's interest in how such patterns within cave systems might be affected by the weight, density, cortical thickness and size of bones in relation to weathering and erosion processes.\n\nIn 1965, Brain took over the directorship of Swartkrans cave (next to Sterkfontein caves) and found a very similar skeletal element representation pattern of fossil faunal remains (including ungulates, primates, large carnivores and hominins) to that of the Makapansgat Member 3 Grey breccia assemblages. This confirmed Brain’s earlier work that skeletal element representation patterns were more likely generated from factors relating to the resilience of bone to weathering, carnivore damage and diagenesis. Further, he found that the breakage patterns from faunal remains at Swartkrans were consistent with large carnivore damage upon bone, such as leopards and hyenas. During Brain's excavations, he found a partial skull-cap of a juvenile \"Paranthropus robustus\" (SK 54) bearing two puncture marks (1970). Brain found that these punctures aligned perfectly with the spacing of the canines in a leopard mandible. He then summarized the findings of his research spanning nearly 20 years in the authoritative volume entitled, \"Hunters or the Hunted?: An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy\" (1981) (named after Washburn's famous article, see above), which corroborated Washburn's hypothesis that early Australopiths were not, in fact, responsible for associated fossil accumulations found throughout southern Africa. It instead demonstrated the fact that large carnivore species had played a much more important role in the origination of fossil deposit (especially in the Sterkfontein Valley) bearing Plio-Pleistocene hominin remains, and further that early Australopiths, as Washburn proposed many years ago, were preyed upon by large carnivores and were not actually predators themselves. Subsequently, Brain's work has engendered a body of on-going research critical to our understanding of early hominin species and the ecosystems in which they lived. Brain’s volume contains an excellent summary of Dart's development of the ODK hypothesis, as well as his detailed refutation to it, which is now recognized as disproving Dart's ideas of the \"predatory transition from Ape to Man.\"\n\nRobert Ardrey's \"African Genesis\" (1961), which popularized concurrent viewpoints on the evolution of modern humans, contains numerous references to Dart’s ODK hypothesis. He detailed Dart's evidence for the predatory rise of Australopiths from \"Ape to Man\" as the major factor from which modern behavior emerged.\n\nOne of the most well-known popular references to Dart’s ODK hypothesis was captured in Stanley Kubrick's film \"\" (an adaptation of Arthur C. Clarke's short story \"The Sentinel\", who also co-authored the screenplay with Kubrick) in which the first part of the film depicts early hominin \"ape-men\" as herbivorous animals being preyed upon by leopards (note the possible reference to Brain's work, see above). Then a black monolithic structure descends from the sky, which is inspected and touched by the ape-men who start shrieking and are thrown into a frenzy. One 'ape-man' spontaneously starts to use a bone as a tool, more specifically a weapon, which they use to retake a waterhole, suggesting the ‘dawn of human culture’ began from an extraterrestrial source.\n\nMasaaki Hatsumi, founder of the Bujinkan Organization and the current Togakure-ryū Soke (Grandmaster), briefly discussed Dart's ODK hypothesis as a possible scientific explanation for the continuity of the use of weapons throughout human history (2005).\n\nFor an excellent and detailed summary of history of the ODK hypothesis see Wolberg, D. L. (1970) \"The Hypothesized Osteodontokeratic Culture of the Australopithecinae\". \"Current Anthropology\" Vol. 11(1), pgs. 23-37.\n\nFor an authoritative perspective on the behavior of modern hyenid species and their significance in palaeozoology see Kuhn, B. F. 2011. \"Hyaenids: Taphonomy and Implications for the Palaeoenvironment\". Cambridge Scholars Publishing.\n"}
{"id": "34342984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34342984", "title": "Postmodern communication", "text": "Postmodern communication\n\nPostmodern Communication is used to describe the communication and messaging format, styles, guides, technologies and media used in a postmodernist world. Due to its non-traditional means; postmodern communication is also referred to as the information society. Driven by the need to reach influential audiences and to cut through a cluttered promotional marketplace, brands are reaching out to new communication methods to deliver their advertising message. Furthermore, many marketing practitioners are cited as saying that in order to create successful marketing strategies in the twenty-first century, \"more creative thinking allied to an integrated approach to all communication activities are needed\".\n\nThe origin of postmodern communication is linked to the development of communication theory. As communication theory studies the technical process of information and the process of human communication, postmodern communications are the newly created tools and marketplaces that allow these communications to happen. Most thinking around the postmodern communication and marketing model is driven from an early 90's scholastic journal article created by Stephen Brown and posted to the England Journal of Marketing. In it Brown writes, one who approaches marketing from postmodern style should in many ways reject attempts to impost order and working in silos. Instead markers should work collectively from with artistic attributes of intuition, creativity, spontaneity, speculation, emotion and involvement.\n\nWith the raise of the internet in the early 1960s and the explosive growth of social networking and mobile phones in the 1980 era, many more tactical postmodern communication models have from. Below is a short list on these new emerging messaging/communication models.\n<br>\nIn adherence with postmodern communications one can assume that the current trend around marketing communication is within the real time model. Although this may be the case it is important to realize that these communication models do not accurately depict how brands and advertisers are spending in the space. According to leading advertising spending and research provider, spending around new aged \"response\" media is set at around 20% of total media spend, while unidirectional models make up roughly 80%.\n"}
{"id": "18674065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18674065", "title": "Richard Sharpe (actor)", "text": "Richard Sharpe (actor)\n\nRichard Sharpe (c. 1602 [?] – January 1632) was an actor with the King's Men, the leading theatre troupe of its time and the company of William Shakespeare and Richard Burbage. Sharpe began his career as a boy player acting female roles, then switched to male roles in his young adulthood.\n\nSharpe's earliest known role was, arguably, both his most significant and his most controversial. The first edition of John Webster's \"The Duchess of Malfi\", printed in 1623, contains the earliest cast list in English Renaissance drama. The list states that Sharpe originated the title role of the Duchess.\n\nThe 1623 cast list actually covers two separate productions, the premiere staging and a later revival.\n\n\nThe cast list holds that Sharpe played the Duchess in both of these productions; he would have been perhaps 12 years old for the first, and about 19 for the second (though the dates of both the productions and of Sharpe's birth are not certain). Some commentators blanche at the idea of a 12-year-old boy playing such a prominent woman's role; and some have assigned the part in the first production to the more experienced Richard Robinson, or to Alexander Cooke, the veteran who is thought by some to have originated many Shakespearean heroines. (Cooke, however, died in February 1614, necessitating an earlier date for the original production.)\n\nThe subject of boy players in female roles is controversial and long-disputed. A cautious approach would rely on the testimony of the evidentiary record, which assigns the role of the Duchess of Malfi to Sharpe.\n\nSharpe originated other female roles in ensuing years. the cast lists added to the second Beaumont and Fletcher folio of 1679 credit Sharpe with parts in the King's Men's premiere productions of:\n\n\n\n— in the 1616–24 era.\n\nSharpe \"probably became a sharer in the King's Men in 1624\" — that is, a partner in the company rather than a mere hired player. Sharpe then switched from important female roles to important male roles — a transition that some boy players (like Robinson or Stephen Hammerton) executed more successfully than others (like John Honyman). Sharpe played Parthenius in the company's production of Philip Massinger's \"The Roman Actor\" (1626), Ferdinand the general in the same author's \"The Picture\" (1629), Lysander in Lodowick Carlell's \"The Deserving Favourite\" (also 1629), Wittworth in John Clavell's \"The Soddered Citizen\" (1630), and the King of the Lombards in Arthur Wilson's \"The Swisser\" (1631).\n\nParish records testify to the brief existence of Sharpe's illegitimate son Richard; as the record puts it, he was \"base born of the body of Margaret Smith singlewoman...\" The infant was christened on 6 September 1631, and buried eleven days later, on 17 September; his mother was a servant.\n\nSharpe's death followed that of his son by four months; he was buried in the parish of St. Anne Blackfriars on 25 January 1632, aged 30.\n"}
{"id": "5107318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5107318", "title": "Ronald W. Zweig", "text": "Ronald W. Zweig\n\nRonald W. Zweig is an Israeli historian specializing in Hebrew and Judaic studies, with particular reference to the British Mandate in Palestine. He is currently the Marilyn and Henry Taub Professor of Israel Studies at New York University (NYU).\n\nZweig is the author of a number of books on Jewish and Israel studies, including \"The Gold Train: The Destruction of the Jews and the Looting of Hungary\" (2002), the story of a train run by the Nazis, the so-called \"Hungarian gold train,\" that left Budapest, Hungary during the Second World War, heading for a Nazi-controlled area in the Alps. The train was carrying gold, diamonds, and wedding rings that the Nazis had stolen from the Hungarian Jewish community. It was intercepted by the American military before it could reach its destination, and the fate of its contents has been the subject of speculation ever since. Zweig acted as a consultant to the U.S. Department of Justice on a related lawsuit—Rosner, et al. v. United States of America—which alleged U.S. military malfeasance.\nZweig studied at the University of Sydney, then moved to England. After graduating with a Ph.D. in modern history from the University of Cambridge, he became a junior fellow at the University of Oxford's Center for Hebrew Studies, 1977–1978. He was a visiting fellow at the Tauber Institute, Brandeis University, in 1982. He then joined the staff of Hebrew University in Jerusalem, and in 1983 transferred to the Department of Jewish History at Tel Aviv University, serving as Chair from 2003–2004. From 1983 to 2000 he edited the \"Journal of Israeli History\", and the online edition of the \"Palestine Post\", 1932–1950. He was a visiting archives fellow at Churchill College, Cambridge, in 1994; a visiting senior scholar at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum in 1999; and held a research fellowship at Yad Vashem in 2000.\n\nIn 2004, he became the director of the Taub Center for Israel Studies at NYU. He is also a member of the Historical Advisory Panel to the National Archives in Washington, D.C..\n"}
{"id": "28080004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28080004", "title": "Russian boot", "text": "Russian boot\n\nRussian boot is the name applied to a style of calf- or knee-length fashion boot for women that was popular in the early part of the 20th century. Russian boots fell out of favor in the 1930s, but were the inspiration for the high-leg fashion boots that returned to popularity in the 1950s and 60s. Today the term Russian boot is sometimes applied to the style of low heeled boots worn by some folk dancers.\n\nThe original Russian boot was the \"valenki\", a flat heeled, wide topped, knee-length boot worn by Russian soldiers. Designed to combat the extremely cold Russian winters, valenki were normally made of thick felt. The boots' uppers were loosely constructed for convenience and comfort, which produced the style's distinctive wrinkling effect around the ankles. The term was later applied to women’s boots in leather that appeared in the second decade of the 20th century.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, shoes with high uppers, buttoned or laced and reaching to the lower calves, were common footwear for women. Rising hemlines made longer styles of boots popular, particularly when the alternative was exposure of the leg, which was still considered shocking. In 1913, Denise Poiret, wife of celebrated French couturier Paul Poiret, caused a sensation in Paris and New York by wearing knee-length boots in wrinkled Morocco leather. Designed by her husband and made by the bottier Favereau, these boots were styled with a low heel and a square toe; she had versions in red, white, green, and yellow In 1915 the \"New York Times\" reported that, partly inspired by Mme. Poiret, these so-called \"Russian boots\" were becoming an outré statement by some cutting-edge fashionable women. However, no boots of any kind caught on with the general public in these years, women being accustomed to traditional high-top shoes, either laced or buttoned. Russian boots remained a forward fashion statement, however, adopted by stage and film stars, including Mary Pickford, Irene Castle, Cécile Sorel and Gloria Swanson, and endorsed by such leading designers as the London-based Lucile (Lady Duff Gordon), who also famously wore them herself.\n\nFrom the mid-1910s into the early '20s, as hemlines rose from ankle length to mid-calf, high-heeled Russian boots with pointe or rounded toes, were increasingly popular. They were available in a variety of styles, calf- or knee-length, with a Cuban or Louis heel, which could be pull-on, or zip-fastened for a closer fit. Worn with calf-length and finally knee-length skirts, they often featured decorative features such as elaborate stitching or fur trim. Russian boots were stylish throughout the 1920s as the fashionable alternative to galoshes in winter. They also somehow acquired a racy reputation, as the sort of footwear worn by girls who frequented saloon bars and speakeasies.\n\nBy the mid-1920s, British shoe manufacturers were reporting record orders for high-legged women’s boots and they were so popular that they were being blamed for causing women to catch colds, have accidents in the street, and even injure themselves. Initially popular in Britain, the new boot style quickly spread to Paris and the United States, while English women in India complained that Russian boots were not yet available in Bombay. The emergence of these tall boots for women was interpreted by some contemporary writers as a consequence of women’s transition from the “leisure class” to the world of business \n\nWith increasing sales, however, complaints began to be made about the poor quality of leather used in the cheaper pairs which were not adequately waterproofed and had a tendency to sag around the ankle; although manufacturers took steps to address issues of fit by introducing taller, better fitting styles this was ultimately blamed for their decline in popularity. Where protection from the elements was needed, Russian boots were increasingly replaced by fashionable variants of the rubber Wellington boot. Mass popularity was also seen as a barrier to chic women adopting boots as a fashion item. Although they were still popular as late as the beginning of the 1930s, within a few years Russian boots had fallen out of favor. It was not until the 1950s that boots were again regarded as fashion items for women.\n\nRussian boots were the inspiration for the modern fashion boot, some of which closely resemble styles that first appeared in the 1920s. The term “Russian boot” is usually applied to the flat-heeled, calf-length boots popular with some traditions of folk dancing, especially those from Eastern Europe. In 2009, The New York Times reported that the original felt \"valenki\" was being reinvented as a fashion item in Russia \n\n"}
{"id": "15082013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15082013", "title": "Sheylanli (Kurdish tribe)", "text": "Sheylanli (Kurdish tribe)\n\nSheylanli tribe (; ; ) is a Kurdish tribe\n, until it was occupied by Armenian troops\nSince then as the victim of the war, an internally displaced persons, Sheylanlis were fled to the Aghjabadi Rayon, Azerbaijan.\nThey speak Kurmanji dialect of the Kurdish Language\nThis tribe is considered to be one of the 24 Kurdish tribes\n\nthose were moved from Iran to Karabakh and Zangezur by Shah Abbas I of Iran in the 16th century to fortify the borders of the Safavid Empire\n. Tatiana Fyodorovna Aristova gives some Sheylanli Kurdish family names such as \"Asadlar, Ismaillar, Nabilar, and Khudular\" in the book \"Kurdy Zakavkazia\". The author mentions Sheylanli, Zerty, and Minkend among the poorest Kurdish communities of Azerbaijan in Lachin.\n\nIn the 1920s, the Kurdish community in Azerbaijan was considerably diminished, when many of them moved to Armenia where Kurdish villages were created. About the same time Azerbaijan's Kurds had their own region called Red Kurdistan in the Lachin region, which was to the West of Karabakh. In fact, Lachin with the principal towns Kalbajar, Kubatli and Zangelan and the administrative sub-divisions of Karakushlak, Koturli, Murad-Khanli and Kurd-Haji were mostly inhabited by Kurds. In 1930 it was abolished and most remaining Kurds were deported to Central Asia. Official Azerbaijani records claim 6,000+ Kurds, while Kurdish leaders estimate as much as 150,000 (including those living in Central Asia and Russia). The problem is that the historical record of the Kurds in Azerbaijan is filled with lacunae. For instance, in 1979 there was according to the census no Kurds recorded. Not only did Turkey and Azerbaijan pursue an identical policy against the Kurds, they even employed identical techniques like forced assimilation, manipulation of population figures, settlement of non-Kurds in areas predominantly Kurdish, suppression of publications and abolition of Kurdish as a medium of instruction in schools. Kurdish historical figures such as Sharaf Khan of Bitlis and Ahmad Khani and the Shaddadid dynasty as a whole were described as Azeris. Kurds who retained 'Kurdish' as their nationality on their internal passports as opposed to 'Azeri' were unable to find employment.\n\nIn the past, in what is currently West of Azerbaijan (which includes Lachin), Kurds lived with an uneasy rivalry with the Azeri Turks. In modern time they harbor some animosity toward them who they associate with the Turks, which is not made easier because of Azerbaijan's prevailing policy of forceful assimilation.\n"}
{"id": "29595427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29595427", "title": "Sydney Checkland", "text": "Sydney Checkland\n\nSydney George Checkland FRSE (9 October 1916 – 22 March 1986) was a British-Canadian economic historian.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, Ontario, Checkland worked at the Bank of Nova Scotia, then the Ottawa Sanitary Laundry Company, while he gained associate membership of the Canadian Bankers' Association. In 1938, he moved to England to study at the University of Birmingham, and in his final year served as President of the Guild of Students at the university. In 1941, he was elected as President of the National Union of Students, serving for only one year before becoming President of the International Council of Students.\n\nIn late 1942, Checkland enrolled at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, then was commissioned as a lieutenant into the Manchester Regiment, before becoming a tank commander in the Governor General's Foot Guards of the Canadian Army. An injury during the Normandy Landings at Falaise left him with permanent nerve damage.\n\nAfter the war, Checkland joined the Common Wealth Party and stood unsuccessfully in Sheffield Ecclesall at the 1945 general election. He then returned to study for a master's degree at Birmingham, after which he took up an academic post in economic science at the University of Liverpool, where he also obtained a doctorate. In 1953, he transferred to the University of Cambridge, then in 1957 he accepted a personal chair at the University of Glasgow and founded the Department of Economic History. He quickly developed a strong reputation in a range of fields relating to economic history, and continued to write until his death in 1986. He is credited with \"being instrumental\" in the establishment in 1976 of the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Glasgow \"strong in the fields of business, banking, and urban history\".\n\nSydney Checkland was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy in 1977, and as Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1981. He was a member of the Economic History Committee of the Social Science Research Council and then a Council member between 1970 and 1972. He was President of the Economic History Society between 1977 and 1980. Of his many scholarly publications, \"The Gladstones: a Family Biography, 1764-1851\" (1971) won a Scottish Arts Council book award and \"Scottish Banking: a History, 1695-1973\" (1975) won a Saltire Society prize. Checkland also served as a board member with the East Kilbride Development Corporation, 1964 to 1968.\n\nDuring his career as a historian Checkland contributed to the development of archival records. In Liverpool he collected the archives of merchant firms and initiated the University of Glasgow's collection of business records. He chaired of the Scottish Records Advisory Council, the National Register of Archives (Scotland) and was vice-president of the Business Archives Council of Scotland. Checkland's own papers are held by Glasgow University Archive Services.\n\nCheckland met Edith Olive Anthony in Birmingham and they married in 1942. Olive nursed Sydney back to health following his war injuries. Olive Checkland was an eminent scholar in her own right in the field of social history.\n"}
{"id": "17667843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17667843", "title": "Thomas Flanagan (priest)", "text": "Thomas Flanagan (priest)\n\nThomas Flanagan (born in England in 1814; died at Kidderminster, 21 July 1865) was an English Catholic priest and historian.\n\nIrish by descent, he was educated at Sedgley Park School. At the age of eighteen he proceeded to Oscott - that is \"Old Oscott\", now known as Maryvale - to study for the priesthood. The president at that time was Henry Weedall, under whose supervision the new college buildings were about to be erected. The students and professors migrated there in 1838, after the summer vacation, Flanagan being thus one of the original students at the new college. There he was ordained in 1842, Bishop Nicholas Wiseman being then president. Flanagan, who had worked hard as a student, was asked by Wiseman to remain as a professor.\n\nIn 1847 Flanagan brought out his first book, a small manual of British and Irish history, containing numerous statistical tables. The same year he became prefect of studies and acted successfully in that capacity until 1850, when he was appointed vice-president and then president of Sedgley Park School, and he became one of the first canons of the newly formed Birmingham Diocese in 1851. He resumed his former position at Oscott first in 1853 and again for an 18-month period beginning in 1858. The last years of his life were spent as assistant priest at St. Chad's Cathedral, Birmingham.\n\nHis chief work was a \"History of the Church in England\". In order to allow him more leisure for this, he was appointed chaplain to the Hornyold family at Blackmore Park in Worcestershire, and his history appeared in two volumes, during his residence there, in 1857. It was at that time the only complete work on the Roman Catholic Church in England, continued down to his times, and, though marred by some inaccuracies, it showed work and research on the part of the author. His style, however, was somewhat concise, and Bishop William Ullathorne remarked that Canon Flanagan was a compiler of history rather than a vivid historian.\n\n"}
{"id": "41620760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41620760", "title": "Timeline of women's ordination in the United States", "text": "Timeline of women's ordination in the United States\n\nThis is a timeline of women's ordination in America.\n\n"}
{"id": "2736854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2736854", "title": "Transit Museum Society", "text": "Transit Museum Society\n\nThe Transit Museum Society of British Columbia (TRAMS) is dedicated to the restoration and preservation of decommissioned transit vehicles in Vancouver and the adjoining areas. Based in Burnaby, TRAMS has a fleet of fourteen operational vehicles, and at least six vehicles pending restoration. These vehicles were previously in use by both public and private operating companies between 1925 and 2010. \n\nVolunteers from TRAMS also operated the Vancouver Downtown Historic Railway and carried out restoration and maintenance of the historic electric interurban cars used on that line, until its operation was suspended indefinitely in 2012.\n\nSee Vancouver Downtown Historic Railway.\n\nThe First Trolley Buses for Vancouver to replace Streetcar lines starting in 1948. The last of these vehicles was retired by BC Hydro & Power Authority in 1976.\nBought by BC Electric to assist with the “rails to rubber” conversion starting in 1947\nThe last of the Brill trolley buses purchased for Vancouver by BC Electric\nPrimarily used on the Macdonald / Knight Route. Later in 1977 the CD52A buses were repainted and used as “Shopper” buses that went between shopping centers in Vancouver and later in Victoria.\nPrimarily used on the Macdonald / Knight Route. Later in 1977 the CD52A buses were repainted and used as “Shopper” buses that went between shopping centers in Vancouver and later in Victoria.\nOriginally Purchased for Victoria. Later served Mission, Powell River, and other small communities in B.C. Restored externally, interior converted to mobile theater and historic display in 1990 for the transit centennial.\nThe first GM Newlook buses purchased by BC Hydro for Vancouver. \n(ex-[[trolleybus]] 2649, converted to diesel for purpose of de-icing trolley wires); repainted back to \"Metro Transit\" yellow-and-orange-stripe livery and renumbered back to 2649 (June 2012)\n35 of these buses were purchased along with the similar trolley buses. Some of these buses lasted into the new millennium.\nThese buses were the first buses for Vancouver with turbocharged 6V92TA engines and were used often for climbing the hills up Burnaby mountain to Simon Fraser University.\nPurchased for long routes from Downtown Vancouver to White rock Tsawassen, and Ladner. Features Suburban seating and reading lights.\nPurchased for long routes from Downtown Vancouver to White rock Tsawassen, and Ladner. Features Suburban seating and reading lights.\n\n\nIn future TRAMS plans to acquire additional vehicles in the following five years, representing types which played a big part in the Vancouver transit system, including a New Flyer D40LF, and a 1974 MCI model 8 (MC-8) from Pacific Coach Lines.\n\n\n[[Category:Transport in Greater Vancouver]]\n[[Category:Rail transport preservation in Canada]]\n[[Category:Heritage organizations]]\n[[Category:History organizations based in Canada]]"}
{"id": "1900483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1900483", "title": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 377", "text": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 377\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly (UNGA) resolution 377 A, the \"Uniting for Peace\" resolution, states that in any cases where the Security Council, because of a lack of unanimity amongst its five permanent members, fails to act as required to maintain international peace and security, the General Assembly shall consider the matter immediately and may issue any recommendations it deems necessary in order to restore international peace and security. If not in session at the time the General Assembly may meet using the mechanism of the emergency special session.\n\nThe Uniting for Peace resolution—also known as the \"Acheson Plan\"—was adopted 3 November 1950, after fourteen days of Assembly discussions, by a vote of 52 to 5 (the Byelorussian SSR, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the Soviet Union, and the Ukrainian SSR), with 2 abstentions (Argentina and India).\n\nIn it, the General Assembly:\n\n\"\"Conscious\" that failure of the Security Council to discharge its responsibilities on behalf of all the Member States… does not relieve Member States of their obligations or the United Nations of its responsibility under the Charter to maintain international peace and security,\n\"\"Recognizing\" in particular that such failure does not deprive the General Assembly of its rights or relieve it of its responsibilities under the Charter in regard to the maintenance of international peace and security,\" ...\n\n\"\"Resolves\" that if the Security Council, because of lack of unanimity of the permanent members, fails to exercise its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security in any case where there appears to be a threat to the peace, breach of the peace, or act of aggression, the General Assembly shall consider the matter immediately with a view to making appropriate recommendations to Members for collective measures, including in the case of a breach of the peace or act of aggression the use of armed force when necessary, to maintain or restore international peace and security.\"\nTo facilitate prompt action by the General Assembly in the case of a dead-locked Security Council, the resolution created the mechanism of the \"emergency special session\" (ESS), which can be called upon the basis of either a procedural vote in the Security Council, or within twenty-four hours of a request by a majority of UN Members being received by the Secretary-General. In procedural votes, the permanent members of the Security Council—the so-called \"P5\"—do not have the ability to block the adoption of draft resolutions, so unlike substantive matters, such resolutions can be adopted without their consent.\n\nEmergency special sessions have been convened under this procedure on ten occasions, with the most recent convened in 1997. However, unlike preceding ESSs, the tenth ESS has been 'adjourned' and 'resumed' on numerous occasions, over the past several years, and remains adjourned. Indeed, more than ten separate 'meetings' have been held by the Assembly, whilst sitting in tenth ESS, since 2000.\n\nWhile the \"emergency special session\" framework was established by resolution A/RES/377 A, the UN Charter always contained provisions for \"special sessions\", which, according to the General Assembly's current \"Rules of Procedure\", can be called within fifteen days of a request being received by the Secretary-General.\n\nThe Uniting for Peace resolution was initiated by the United States, and submitted by the \"Joint Seven-Powers\" in October 1950, as a means of circumventing further Soviet vetoes during the course of the Korean War (25 June 1950 – 27 July 1953). It was adopted by 52 votes to 5, with 2 abstentions.\n\nIn the closing days of Assembly discussions leading up to the adoption of 377 A, US delegate to the UN, John Foster Dulles, made specific reference to the Korean War as a chief motivator in the passage of the resolution:\nThen came the armed attack on the Republic of Korea and it seemed that the pattern of 1931 had in fact begun to repeat itself and that the third world war might be in the making. And that might have been—and I think it would have been—had it not been for a series of accidental circumstances which made it possible to improvise collective resistance to that aggression.\nThe principal accidental circumstance referred to by Dulles was that the Soviet Union was boycotting the Security Council at the time of the outbreak of hostilities in Korea, and had been since January 1950, owing to its discontent over the UN's refusal to recognize the People's Republic of China's representatives as the legitimate representatives of China, returning only on 1 August 1950 to assume the rotating role of Council President, for that month. This circumstance had meant that the Security Council was able to adopt its resolutions 83, of 27 June 1950, and 84, of 7 July 1950, thereby establishing a UN-mandated force for South Korea \"to repel the armed attack\" from the North. Had the Soviet Union been seated at the Council during the months of June and July, the relevant draft resolutions would almost certainly have been vetoed, and the United States was well aware of this, as evidenced by the above statement.\n\nSome of the key statements made during Assembly discussions on 377 A, whilst sitting in plenary, include:\n\n\"If, in response to our resolution, the Member States do actually establish a system which ensures that aggression will be promptly exposed, if they maintain a collective strength, and if they have both the will and the way to use that strength promptly in case of need, then a third world war may be permanently averted... It would be vastly reassuring to all who love peace if here we could adopt unanimously a programme which only aggressors need fear.\" ...\n\n\"We must organize dependably the collective will to resist. If the Security Council does not do so, then this Assembly must do what it can by invoking its residual power of recommendation... As the world moves in the path that this resolution defines, it will move nearer and nearer to the Charter ideal\".\n\"The Soviet Union ... has attributed to the Council a power which it has never had under the Charter, namely, the power to insist that, because the Council has itself been reduced to impotence in the face of aggression by disagreement among its permanent members, the entire world Organisation shall wash its hands of the whole matter and let aggression take its course. The Council has never possessed any such right. Indeed, it is impossible to conceive that the authors of the Charter at San Francisco would have lent themselves to a proposition so far out of tune with the hopes and wishes of the peoples of the world.\" ...\n\n\"This resolution should help to make aggression less likely by giving notice to any intending aggressor that he risks uniting the world against him... All the peace-loving nations must welcome the strengthening of the forces of peace which the passing of these resolutions will represent.\"\n\"France supports the Charter—the whole Charter... Where peace and security are at stake, France considers that the General Assembly and the Security Council should assume all the responsibilities laid upon them by the Charter... It is unthinkable that this entire machinery, designed to safeguard the peace and security of the world, should remain inactive when there is a threat to peace and security. And if ... there is a real danger of such inactivity, then we must revise our customs, our methods, our rules and our interpretations\". ...\n\n\"My delegation felt ... that it was unnecessary to revise the Charter, which itself afforded the means of ensuring that its principles should be applied... The draft resolution does not infringe upon the Security Council’s competence, responsibilities or powers. The Council should fulfil its role; if it does so it will be adequate... If, however, for some reason, it does not fulfil its role, the United Nations will not thereby be paralysed. A [emergency] special session of the General Assembly can be convened within twenty-four hours and the Assembly ... can discuss and adopt any recommendations which appear necessary for the maintenance or re-establishment of peace and security.\"\n\"The organizers of the Anglo-American bloc, in their inflammatory speeches against the USSR ... yesterday and today, tried to create the impression that they wanted to organize a check against any possible aggressor... As if our troops were waging war in every country! As if we had surrounded the world with a fiery ring of naval, air and other bases! As if we were conducting a furious armaments race, daily spending more and more thousands of millions which the taxpayer, the ordinary American people, have to provide! As if we really did not want to outlaw the atomic bomb! Yet this draft resolution does not even refer to the necessity of ensuring that the atomic bomb is outlawed!... We must now have been seeking for some five years to ensure that a decision to outlaw the atomic bomb—the use of the atomic bomb—is taken\". ...\n\n\"We base our arguments on the fundamental provision laid down in Article 10 of the Charter, namely, that the General Assembly may discuss and make recommendations on any matters relating to the powers and functions of any organs of the United Nations — and consequently of an organ such as the Security Council — except as otherwise provided. But two exceptions are provided. The first, which applies to all matters, is to be found in Article 12, paragraph 1, which says that when the Security Council is considering these questions or exercising its functions in respect thereof, the General Assembly shall not make any recommendation... The other exception is in the last sentence of Article 11, paragraph 2, which says that if a question which may be considered by the General Assembly calls for enforcement action ... then it must necessarily be referred to the Security Council... But there is a basic reservation... It is that ... the General Assembly may decide, what measures \"not involving the use of force\" are to be employed. Severance of diplomatic relations is a measure not involving the use of armed force. Interruption of economic relations is an enforcement measure not involving the use of armed force.\"\nAccording to how one characterizes the first case Uniting for Peace has been implemented 11 or 12 times between 1951 and 1997 depending on whether to include Korea (1951). Resolution 377 may be invoked by the Security Council (7 times) or the General Assembly (5 times).\n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 119. Although \"Uniting for Peace\" was enacted because of Soviet vetoes, its first use was, unexpectedly, against two NATO members. The Assembly's first emergency special session was instigated by a procedural vote of the Security Council on its Resolution 119 of 31 October 1956, as a result of the Suez Crisis, which commenced 29 October 1956. France and the United Kingdom were the only two Council members to vote against the adoption of Council resolution 119, and were likewise, along with Israel, the principal antagonists in the conflict with Egypt; a conflict that the United States wanted to end. The session's meetings were held between 1 November and 10 November 1956.\n\nOn 7 November 1956, the Assembly adopted resolution 1001, thereby establishing the United Nations Emergency Force I (UNEF I) to \"secure and supervise the cessation of hostilities\". The Assembly, by its own resolutions, not only established UNEF I, but also called for \"an immediate cease-fire\", and recommended \"that all Member States refrain from introducing military goods in the area\", thereby authorizing military sanctions.\n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 120. \n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 129. \n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 157. \n\nInvoked by General Assembly request USSR (A/6717) and vote (98-3-3)\n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 303. The Twenty-Sixth Regular Session was seated no\nEmergency Special Session was needed so the issue was handled under the agenda item “UN Assistance to East Pakistan Refugees”.\n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 462. \n\nInvoked by General Assembly request Senegal (A/ES-7/1).\n\nInvoked by General Assembly request Zimbabwe (A/ES-8/1). The UNGA's eighth emergency special session was convened by Zimbabwe in order to discuss the \"Question of Namibia\". Its meetings were conducted between 3 September and 14 September 1981.\n\nAt the conclusion of the final meeting of the session, the Assembly adopted resolution A/RES/ES-8/2, in which it:\n\"\"Declaring\" that the illegal occupation of Namibia by South Africa together with the repeated acts of aggression committed by South Africa against neighbouring States constitute a breach of international peace and security,\"\n\n\"\"Noting with regret and concern\" that the Security Council failed to exercise its primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security when draft resolutions proposing comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations were vetoed by the three Western permanent members of the Council on 30 April 1981,\" ...\n\n\"6. \"Calls upon\" Member States, specialized agencies and other international organizations to render increased and sustained support and material, financial, military and other assistance to the South West Africa People's Organization to enable it to intensify its struggle for the liberation of Namibia;\" ...\n\n\"13. \"Calls upon\" all States, in view of the threat to international peace and security posed by South Africa, to impose against that country comprehensive mandatory sanctions in accordance with the provisions of the Charter;\"\n\n\"14. \"Also strongly urges\" States to cease forthwith, individually and collectively, all dealings with South Africa in order totally to isolate it politically, economically, militarily and culturally;\"\nThis was the first occasion on which the Assembly authorized economic, diplomatic and cultural sanctions against a state; it had already authorized military sanctions by its resolution 1001 of 7 November 1956, during its first emergency special session. Resolution A/RES/ES-8/2 also reaffirmed the power of the General Assembly to authorize the use of military force by UN Member States.\n\nInvoked by Security Council Resolution 500. \n\nInvoked by General Assembly request Qatar (A/ES/10/1).\nIt has been argued that with the adoption of the 'Uniting for Peace' resolution by the General Assembly, and given the interpretations of the Assembly’s powers that became customary international law as a result, that the Security Council 'power of veto' problem could be surmounted. By adopting A/RES/377 A, on 3 November 1950, over two-thirds of UN Member states declared that, according to the UN Charter, the permanent members of the UNSC cannot and should not prevent the UNGA from taking any and all action necessary to restore international peace and security, in cases where the UNSC has failed to exercise its 'primary responsibility' for maintaining peace. Such an interpretation sees the UNGA as being awarded 'final responsibility'—rather than 'secondary responsibility'—for matters of international peace and security, by the UN Charter. Various official and semi-official UN reports make explicit reference to the Uniting for Peace resolution as providing a mechanism for the UNGA to overrule any UNSC vetoes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20845187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20845187", "title": "William Davidson (conspirator)", "text": "William Davidson (conspirator)\n\nWilliam Davidson (1781–1820) was a British African-Caribbean radical executed for his role in the Cato Street Conspiracy against Lord Liverpool's government in 1820.\n\nDavidson was the illegitimate son of the Attorney General of Jamaica and a local black woman. At the age of 14 he travelled to Glasgow to study law. In Scotland he became involved in the movement for parliamentary reform. He was apprenticed to a Liverpool lawyer, but ran away to sea. Later, he was press-ganged into the Royal Navy.\n\nAfter his discharge, he returned to Scotland. His father arranged for him to study mathematics in Aberdeen. Davidson withdrew from study, moved to Birmingham, and started a cabinet-making business. He courted the daughter of a prosperous merchant. Her father suspected that Davidson was after her £7,000 dowry, and arranged for Davidson to be arrested on a false charge. When Davidson discovered she had married someone else he attempted suicide by taking poison.\n\nDavidson's cabinet-making business failed, and he moved to London. He married Sarah Lane, a working-class widow with four children. They had two more children. Davidson became a Wesleyan Methodist, and taught at the Sunday School. However, he left after he was accused of attempting to seduce a female student.\n\nFollowing the Peterloo Massacre, William Davidson became involved in radical politics again. In October 1819 Richard Carlile was found guilty of blasphemy and seditious libel, and sentenced to three years imprisonment. Davidson said that this had caused him to lose his belief in God. He joined the Marylebone Union Reading Society, a club that offered a reading room of radical newspapers such as the Republican and the \"Manchester Observer\" for a subscription of twopence a week. He also read the works of Tom Paine.\n\nDavidson met John Harrison at the Marylebone Union. Harrison was a member of the Spencean Philanthropists in London. Davidson soon became a Spencean. He met Arthur Thistlewood, and after a few months he became one of the Committee of Thirteen that ran the organisation.\n\nIn February 1820, George Edwards, a government provocateur, drew Davidson and Thistlewood and 27 other Spenceans into a plot to kill government cabinet officers as they dined at Lord Harrowby's house at 39 Grosvenor Square on 23 February. Thistlewood selected Davidson as one of an Executive of Five to organise the assassinations. (The dinner was a fictitious construction.)\n\nDavidson had worked for Lord Harrowby in the past, and knew some of his staff at Grosvenor Square. His job was to find out more details about the cabinet meeting. One of the servants told him that the Earl of Harrowby was not in London. Davidson relayed this information to Arthur Thistlewood, who believed that the servant was lying, and ordered the conspirators to proceed with the plot.\n\nOn 23 February the Cato Street Conspiracy met in a hayloft on Cato Street, near Grosvenor Square. However, there was no cabinet meeting: the Spenceans had been set up by George Edwards.\n\nGeorge Ruthven led 13 police officers to storm the hayloft. Several revolutionaries refused to surrender their weapons. Thistlewood killed police officer Richard Smithers with a single sword-thrust. When the co-conspirators tried to escape, Benjamin Gill hit Davidson on the wrist with his truncheon, and he dropped his blunderbuss. Four conspirators, Thistlewood, John Brunt, Robert Adams and John Harrison escaped through a window. However, their identities were given to the police by Edwards and they were quickly arrested.\n\nEleven men were charged with involvement in the Cato Street Conspiracy. Robert Adams testified against the other men, and charges against him were dropped. Davidson pleaded innocence and claimed the court was prejudiced against black people. However, his presence at the scene with a blunderbuss led to his conviction.\n\nOn 28 April 1820, William Davidson, James Ings, Richard Tidd, Arthur Thistlewood, and John Brunt were found guilty of high treason, and sentenced to death. John Harrison, James Wilson, Richard Bradburn, John Strange and Charles Copper were also found guilty. However their death sentences were subsequently commuted to transportation for life.\n\nWilliam Davidson, with his four fellow conspirators, was publicly hanged and decapitated outside Newgate Prison on 1 May 1820.\n\n"}
{"id": "26151941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26151941", "title": "William Macbride Childs", "text": "William Macbride Childs\n\nWilliam Macbride Childs (1869–1939) was an English academic administrator and historian, who was involved in the foundation of the University of Reading and who served briefly as its first vice-chancellor.\n\nChilds was born, on 3 January 1869, in the village of Carrington, situated some north of Boston in Lincolnshire. He was the son of the Revd William Linington Childs, vicar of Carrington, and his second wife, Henrietta Fowles Bell. He had no brothers or sisters, but had a stepbrother and two stepsisters by his father's first marriage. He attended Portsmouth Grammar School and graduated from Keble College of the University of Oxford in 1891.\n\nIn 1892 Childs served briefly as a secretary to Sir Arthur Dyke Acland, who at the time was Vice-President of the Committee on Education, the cabinet post that then supervised education in the United Kingdom. In 1893 he became a lecturer in history at the University College in Reading, being promoted to vice-principal in 1900.\n\nIn 1903 Childs succeeded Halford Mackinder as principal of the college. He made it his aim to turn the college into a University, working to this end by attracting students from a distance with hostels and, eventually, halls of residence. He also raised funds from prominent local residents, including George William Palmer and Alfred Palmer, both proprietors of Huntley & Palmers, and Harriet Loyd-Lindsay, wife of Robert, 1st Baron Wantage. His first application for a charter, in 1920, was turned down, but a second application, in 1925, succeeded. In 1926, when the University of Reading officially received that charter, Childs became the first vice-chancellor, being born aloft by his students and carried around the grounds.\n\nChilds retired at the age of 60, in 1929. He died on 21 June 1939 at his home at Hermitage in Berkshire. Childs Hall, a hall of residence on the University of Reading's Whiteknights Park campus, is named in honour of William Macbride Childs.\n\n"}
{"id": "950378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950378", "title": "Yakshagana", "text": "Yakshagana\n\nYakshagana ( Kannada : \"ಯಕ್ಷಗಾನ, Malayalam: യക്ഷഗാനം) is a traditional theatre form that combines dance, music, dialogue, costume, make-up, and stage techniques with a unique style and form. This theatre style is mainly found in all parts of Karnataka. Yakshagana is traditionally presented from dusk to dawn. Its stories are drawn from Ramayana, Mahabharata, Bhagavata and other epics from both Hindu and Jain traditions.\n\n\"Yakshagana\" literally means the song (\"gana\") of the \"yaksha\" (nature spirits). Yakshagana is the scholastic name (used for the last 200 years) for art forms formerly known as \"kēḷike, āṭa, bayalāṭa,\" and \"daśāvatāra\". It is believed to have evolved from pre-classical music and theater during the period of the Bhakti movement. It is sometimes simply called \"the play\" () in Tulu Language. Yakshagana is strongly influenced by the Vaishnava Bhakti movement. Yakshagana was first introduced in Udupi by Madhvacharya's disciple Naraharitirtha.\n\nYakshagana is a separate genre of music, independent of Karnataka Sangeetha and the Hindustani music of India. It is believed to have survived as an indigenous phenomenon only in Karnataka and northern parts of Kerala .\n\nA typical Yakshagana performance consists of background music played by a group of musicians (known as the \"himmela\"); and a dance and dialog group (known as the \"mummela\"), who together enact poetic epics on stage. The himmela is made up of a lead singer (\"bhagawata\")—who also directs the production—and is referred to as the \"first actor\" (\"modalane vesha\"). Additional himmela members are players of traditional musical instruments, such as the \"maddale\" (hand drum), the \"pungi\" (pipe), the \"harmonium\" (organ), and the \"chande\" (loud drums). The music is based on \"ragas\", which are characterized by rhythmic patterns called \"mattu\" and \"tala\" (or musical meter in Western music).\n\nA Yakshagana performance typically begins in the twilight hours, with an initial beating of the drums of several fixed compositions, called \"abbara\" or \"peetike\". This may last for up to an hour before the actors finally arrive on the stage. The actors wear resplendent costumes, head-dresses, and face paints.\n\nA performance usually depicts a story from the \"Kavya\" (epic poems) and the \"Puranas\" (ancient Hindu texts). It consists of a story teller (the \"bhagavatha\") who narrates the story by singing (which includes prepared character dialogues) as the actors dance to the music, portraying elements of the story as it is being narrated. All components of Yakshagana—including the music, the dance, and the dialog—are improvised. Depending on the ability and scholarship of the actors, there will be variations in dances as well as the amount of dialog. It is not uncommon for actors to get into philosophical debates or arguments without falling out of character. The acting in Yakshagana can be best categorized as method acting. The performances have drawn comparison to the Western tradition of opera. Traditionally, Yakshagana will run all night.\n\nYakshagana is popular in the districts of Dakshina Kannada, Kasaragod, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Shimoga . Yakshagana has become popular in Bengaluru in recent years, particularly in the rainy season, when there are few other forms of entertainment possible in the coastal districts.\n\nYakshagana can refer to a style of writing, as well as the written material itself. It was probably used for poems enacted in bayalaata (or \"open theater drama\"), such as the ballads of Koti and Chennayya.\" Yakshagana in its present form is believed to have been strongly influenced by the Vaishnava Bhakti movement. Yakshagana was first introduced in Udupi by Madhvacharya's disciple Naraharitirtha. Naraharitirtha was the minister in the Kalinga Kingdom. He also was the founder of Kuchipudi.\n\nThe first written evidence regarding Yakshagana is found on an inscription at the Lakshminarayana Temple in Kurugodu, Somasamudra, Bellary District, and is dated 1556 CE. A copy is available at the University of Madras. The inscription mentions land donated to the performers of the art, so as to enable people to enjoy \"tala maddale\" programs at the temple. Another important piece of evidence is available in the form of a poem authored by Ajapura Vishnu, the \"Virata Parva\", inscribed on a palm-leaf found at Ajapura (present day Brahmavara). Another historic palm-leaf manuscript, dated 1621 CE, describes \"Sabhalakshana\".\n\nYakshagana bears some resemblance to other members of the 'traditional theater family:' \"Ankhia Nata\" (found in Assam); \"Jathra\" (in Bengal); \"Chau\" (Bihar, Bengal); \"Prahlada Nata\" (Orissa); \"Veedhinatakam\" & \"Chindu\" (Andhra); \"Terukoothu Bhagawathamela\" (Tamil Nadu), and \"Kathakali\" (Kerala). However, some researchers have argued that Yakshagana is markedly different from this group.\n\nExperts have placed the origin of Yakshagana somewhere in the period of the 11th to 16th centuries CE. Yakshagana was an established performance art form by the time of the noted Yakshagana poet, Parthi Subba (c. 1600). His father, Venkata, is attributed by some to be the author of the great Hindu epic, Ramayana, although historian Shivaram Karanth counters these claims (made most notably by historians Muliya Thimmappa and Govinda Pai) and argues that it is Subba, who was in fact its author. Venkata is the probable founder of the tenkuthittu (southern) style of the art.\n\nTroupe centers, such as Koodlu and Kumbala in the Kasaragod District, and Amritheshwari, Kota near Kundapura, claim to have had troupes three to four centuries ago, indicating that the art form almost certainly had begun to take shape by circa 1500.\n\nThe Yakshagana form of today is the result of a slow evolution, drawing its elements from ritual theater, temple arts, secular arts (such as Bahurupi), royal courts of the past, and the artists' imaginations—all interwoven over a period of several hundred years.\n\nEarly Yakshagana poets included Ajapura Vishnu, Purandaradasa, Parthi Subba, and Nagire Subba. King Kanteerava Narasaraja Wodeyar II (1704–1714) authored 14 Yakshaganas in various languages in the Kannada script. Mummadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar (1794–1868) also wrote several Yakshagana prasanga, including \"Sougandhika Parinaya\". Noted poet, Muddana, composed several Yakshagana prasangasa, including the very popular \"Rathnavathi Kalyana\".\n\nIn the 19th century, Yakshagana began to move away from the strict traditional forms. Practitioners of the day produced a number of new compositions. Also, a large number of troupes arose across coastal Karnataka.\n\nThe early 20th century saw the birth of 'tent' troupes, giving performances to audiences made up of common people who were admitted by ticket. These troupes were responsible for the commercialization of Yakshagana. The genre saw major changes in form and organization. Electrical lights replaced the gas lights; seating arrangements improved; the inclusion of folk epics, Sanskrit dramas, and fictional stories formed the modern thematic base of the discipline. Popular entertainment became the criterion, replacing the historic classical presentations. Tulu, the language of the southern part of the D.K. and Udupi district's was introduced; increasing popularity with the common people.\n\nAt this time, writer Kota Shivaram Karanth, experimented with the dance form by introducing Western musical instrumentation. He reduced the time of a Yakshagana performances from 12 hours to under three hours, incorporated movie plot lines, and added Shakespearean themes. Today, female artists perform in Yakshagana shows.\n\nYakshagana is related to other performance art forms prevalent in other parts of Karnataka and the neighboring states of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. Yakshagana defies simple classification into categories such as folk, classical, or rural. It can be included in each or all of these, depending upon the rules used for classification. It is more varied and dynamic than most dance forms. Yakshagana can, however, be classified as one of many traditional dance forms. While it prevails primarily in the coastal areas of Karnataka, other dance forms (such as Doddata) are today often called by the same name. Several forms of traditional theater – \"Mudalpaya\" (of southern Karnataka); \"Doddata\" (of northern Karnataka); \"Kelike\" (on the border with Andhra Pradesh); and \"Ghattadakore\" (of Kollegal—in the Chamarajnagar District), may be included in this category. Among them, the \"Ghattadakore\" is a direct branch of the coastal form of Yakshagana, while \"Mudalapaya\" is the most closely connected form.\n\nThere is a form called \"Yakshaganamu\" in Andhra Pradesh, which exhibits some resemblance to the Yakshagana forms of the Karnataka plateau region and is less sophisticated as a visual art.\n\nScholars have classified Yakshagana broadly into several types:\n\nOne of the traditional variations, the \"tenkutittu\" style, is prevalent in Dakshina Kannada, Kasaragod District, western parts of Coorg (Sampaje), and few areas of Udupi district. The influence of Karnatic Music is apparent in tenkutittu, as evidenced by the type of maddale used and in bhaagavathike. Yakshagana is influenced more by folk art blended with classical dance aspects. In tenkutittu, three iconic set of colors are used: the \"Raajabanna\", the \"Kaatbanna\", and the \"Sthreebanna\".\n\nThe himmela in the tenkutittu style is more cohesive to the entire production. Rhythms of the chande and maddale coupled with the \"chakrataala\" and \"jaagate\" of the bhaagavatha create an excellent symphonic sound. The dance form in tenkutittu strikes the attention of the audience by 'Dheengina' or 'Guttu'. Performers often do \"dhiginas\" (jumping spins in the air) and will continuously spin (sometimes) hundreds of times. Tenkutittu is noted for its incredible dance steps; its high flying dance moves; and its extravagant \"rakshasas\" (demons).\n\nTenkutittu has remained a popular form and has its own audience outside the coastal areas. The Dharmasthala and Kateelu durgaparameshwari melas (the two most popular melas) have helped to popularize this form. Several creative tenkutittu plays have been composed by noted scholars, such as Amritha Someshwara.\n\nThe \"Badagutittu\" style is prevalent in North Canara (Uttara Kannada District) and the northern parts of Udupi Dist from Kundapura to Byndoor, The Badagutittu school of Yakshagana places more emphasis on facial expressions, \"matugarike\" (dialogues), and dances appropriate for the character depicted in the episode. It makes use of a typical Karnataka chande.\n\nThe Badagutittu style was popularized by Shivram Karanth's, \"Yakshagana Mandira,\" presented at Saligrama Village in Dakshina Kannada as a shorter more modern form of Yakshagana.\n\nKeremane Shivarama Hegde, the founder of the Yakshagana troupe, Idagunji Mahaganapati Yakshagana Mandali, is an exponent of the Badagutittu style of Yakshagana. He is also the first Yakshagana artist to receive the Rashtrapati Award from the president of India. He hails from the Honnavar taluk of Uttara Kannada (North Canara) District.\n\nThere were more than 30 string-puppet troupes in the undivided Dakshina Kannada district during the period 1910–1915 in places such as Basrur, Barkur, Kokkarne, Mudabidri.\nThe presentation of the puppetry in Yakshagana style is highly stylized and adheres strictly to the norms and standards of Yakshagana. The puppets (generally 18 inches high) wear costumes similar to those worn by live actors of Yakshagana, and have the same elaborate make-up, colorful headgear, and heavy jewelery. The puppeteer is known as the \"Suthradhara.\" The content in the Yakshagana puppetry, is also mainly drawn from the ancient epics.\n\nYakshagana puppetry has existed for centuries. The modern form of the art, however, was largely molded by the brothers Laxman, Narasimha, and Manjappa Kamath; who hailed from Uppinakudru village, Kundapur taluk. Devanna Padmanabha Kamath, the grandson of Laxman Kamath infused new life into the art and performed shows all over India. Later, Kogga Devanna Kamath improved this subgenre even further, being recognized with the Tulsi Samman and Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards. His son, Bhaskar Kogga Kamath, is currently performing shows while training others in the art of Yakshagana puppetry. K. V. Ramesh is a leading puppeteer from Kasaragod. He leads the Yakshagana puppet troupe Shri Gopalakrishna Yakshagana Gombeyata Sangha.\n\nThe second half of the 20th century saw experiments and adoptions of this art into other venues. One notable effort was that of Shivarama Karantha, who produced and exhibited \"Yakshagana ballet\", using and training local artists. Some of the changes brought about by Karanth, however, attracted criticism. One legal decision even banned any public performance of his experimental ballets being billed as \"Yakshagana.\"\n\nThe artists pray to lord Ganesha before their performance. Yakshagana also ends with a prayer to Ganesha\n\nYakshagana Rāga refers to melodic framework used in Yakshagana. It is based on pre-classical melodic forms that comprise a series of five or more musical notes upon which a melody is founded. Ragas in Yakshagana are closely associated with a set of melodic forms called mattu. In the Yakshagana tradition, rāgas are associated with different times of the night throughout which the Yakshagana is performed.\n\nYakshagana Tala (Sanskrit tāla) are frameworks for rhythms in Yakshagana that are determined by a poetry style called \"Yakshagana Padya\". Tala also decide how a composition is to be enacted by the dancers. It is similar to tala in other forms of Indian music, but differs from them structurally. Each composition is set to one or more talas, rendered by the himmela percussion artists play.\n\nYakshagana poetry (Yakshagana Padya or Yakshagana Prasanga) is a collection of poems written to form a music drama. The poems are composed in well known Kannada metres, using a frame work of ragas and talas. Yakshagana also has its own metre (or \"prosody\"). The collection of Yakshagana poems forming a musical drama is called a \"Prasanga\". The oldest surviving parasanga books are believed to have been composed in the 15th century. But many compositions have been lost to time. There is evidence showing that oral compositions were in use before the 15th century. The narratives of the surviving historic Yakshagana Prasangas are now often printed in paperback.\n\nYakshagna costumes are rich in color. The costumes (or \"vesha\") in Kannada depend on characters depicted in the play (prasanga). It also depends on the Yakshagana style (\"tittu\").\n\nTraditionally, Badagutittu Yakshagana ornaments are made out of light wood, pieces of mirror, and colored stones. Lighter materials, such as thermocol, are sometimes used today, although ornaments are still predominantly made of woodwork.\n\nYakshagana costumes consist of headgear (Kirita or Pagade), Kavacha that decorates the chest, Buja Keerthi (armlets) that decorate the shoulders, and belts (Dabu)—all made up of light wood and covered with golden foil. Mirror work on these ornaments helps to reflect light during shows and add more color to the costumes. Armaments are worn on a vest and cover the upper half of the body. The lower half is covered with kachche, which come in unique combinations of red, yellow, and orange checks. Bulky pads are used under the kachche, making the actors' proportions different in size from normal.\n\nThe character, Bannada Vesha, is used to depict monsters. This often involves detailed facial makeup taking three to four hours to complete. Males play the female roles in traditional Yakshagana. However, more recently, yakshagana has seen female artists, who perform in both male and female roles.\n\nThe character of Stree Vesha makes use of sari and other decorative ornaments.\n\nThe maddale is a percussion instrument and, along with the chande, is the primary rhythmic accompaniment in the Yakshagana ensemble.\n\nYakshagana bells or cymbals, are a pair of finger bells made of a special alloy (traditionally five metal). They are made to fit the tone of the bhagawatha's voice. Singers carry more than one set, as finger bells are available in different keys, thus enabling them to sing in different pitches. They help create and guide the background music in Yakshagana.\n\nThe Chande is a drum and, along with the maddale, is an important rhythmic accompaniment in the Yakshagana ensemble.\n\nOver the centuries, hundreds of artists performed Yakshagana and some of them have gained star value, like, Siddakatte Chennappa Shetty, Chittani Ramachandra Hegde, Naranappa Uppoor, Kalinga Navada, and Airody Govindappa.\n\nAs most troupes are associated with temples, training in the art has been confined to temple premises. The Govinda Pai Research Institute, located at MGM College, runs a \"Yakshagana Kalakendra\" in Udupi trains youngsters in this ancient dance form. It also does research work on language, rituals, and dance art forms. Srimaya Yakshagana Kalakendra, Gunavante which was founded by Shri Keremane Shambhu Hegde, is another notable Yakshagana Gurukula that trains Yakshagana students .\n\nYakshagana is finding new popularity outside India. Amateur troupes have emerged in California, USA and Ontario, Canada. \"Yakshamitra in Canada\", \"Yakshagana Kalavrinda\", \"Yaksharanga in the U.S.\" \"Yakshaloka Boston\" are a few examples of these international troupes.\n\n\"Yakshamitra\" founded in 2008 in Toronto, Canada, is the first full pledged Yakshagana mela outside India. It is the first to use local live music himmela for their performances. The other troupes usually use a recorded background himmela for their shows.\n\n\"Yakshaloka USA\" was founded in New England by Raghuram Shetty in 1995 and used recorded audio for shows. Being the first build a local Yakshagana troupe (\"Yakshaloka Boston\") in North America and introduce tenku tiTTu (Southern style) Yakshagana to this continent, he trained thousands of local Americans and inspired 5 Yakshagana troupes (Massachusetts, Washington, Florida, Northern and Southern California). Including shows like Sindh World Conference 2000, AKKA 2002, Saint Peters-burg Folk Festival 2005, Irvine Global Village 2014 etc. Yakshaloka USA has showcased hundreds of multi-lingual shows in major theaters across USA in both styles of Yakshagana. Yakshaloka promotes vibrant ancient Indian art by creating unique shows of its own, presentations in schools and Universities including worlds leading acting schools in Hollywood, training kids and adults from all over the world, joining hands with visiting artists (E.g.: Northern style legend Chittani Ramachandra Hegde troupe 2006), and sponsoring/facilitating leading artists (E.g.: Southern style legend Dr Puttur Shridhara Bhandary 2013).\n\nYakshagana Kalavrinda performs on the east coast of the U.S.\n\"Yakshaloka Boston\" troupe has mainly the artists from Boston area and visiting artists from various parts of USA and India. The troupe has given many shows in the east coast, Midwest, southern USA.\n\nYaksharanga in the USA started after the visit of Yakshagana artist, Sri Chittani Ramachandra Hegde. His performance at the age of 74 was so inspiring that art lovers decided to continue his art thousands of miles away from its home. Sri Kidayuru Ganesh, who accompanied Sri Chittani, stayed back for a couple of months to train a new generation of Yakshagana artists. The initial result was a performance of Yakshagana “Sudanvarjuna Kalaga”. Hegde won the Padmashri Award in 2012 for his lifetime contribution to the art. Yaksharanga has since performed many shows around California.\n\nYakshagana Troupe, \"Shri Idagunji Mahaganapati Yakshagana Mandali, Keremane,\" headed by Shri Keremane Shambhu Hegde and Shri Keremane Shivanand Hegde, toured the U.S., and performed more than 22 programs throughout North America. The troupe visited 12 countries. This troupe was one of the first few troupes that took Yakshagana (in its traditional form) outside India (referring to their performance at Hilton Hotel, Bahrain in 1983).\n\nThere are about 30 full-fledged professional troupes, and about 200 amateur troupes in Yakshagana. Professional troupes go on tour between November to May, giving about 180-200 shows. There are about one thousand professional artists and many more amateurs. Further there are off season shows during the wet season, the anniversary shows, school and college students Yakshagana and of course the Talamaddale performances. Yakshagana commercial shows witness 12,000 performances per year in Karnataka generating a turnover of Rs. Six crore.\n\n\n\n"}
