{"id": "33070792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070792", "title": "Andrés Soriano", "text": "Andrés Soriano\n\nAndrés Soriano Sr. (February 8, 1898 – December 30, 1964) was a Spanish Filipino industrialist. Described by the New York Times as \"one of the most dominant business personalities in the western Pacific area,\" he was best known for expanding the original San Miguel Brewery that became San Miguel Corporation. He also established philanthropies and encouraged good employee relations by sharing profits with his more than 16,000 employees by establishing a pension plan that paid retired employees 25% of their salary, with guaranteed sick leaves and medical benefits. He was the founder of Philippine Airlines, Asia's first air carrier. In 1935, during Commonwealth era, Soriano established Commonwealth Insurance Company, a non-life insurance company.\n\nAndrés Soriano y Róxas was born on February 8, 1898, in San Miguel, Manila, Philippines. His father, Don Eduardo Soriano y Sanz, was a Spanish engineer who migrated to Philippines in the late 19th century.\n\nHis mother, Doña Margarita Róxas de Ayala y Róxas, was the daughter of Pedro Pablo Róxas, and the granddaughter of Antonio de Ayala and Doña Margarita Róxas, progenitors of the prominent Róxas de Ayala and Zóbel de Ayala clans. Soriano was a second cousin of siblings, Col. Jacobo Zóbel (father of Enrique J. Zobel), Alfonso Zóbel de Ayala (father of Jaime Zobel de Ayala), Mercedes Zóbel McMicking and the artist Fernando Zóbel.\n\nSoriano had three siblings, including sisters, Carmen and Margarita.\n\nSoriano was married to Carmen Montemar in 1924. The couple had two sons, José María Soriano (born on February 6, 1925), and Andres Soriano Jr. (born on May 3, 1926).\n\nIn 1920, the 22-year-old Soriano joined the original San Miguel Brewery as an accountant. In six months, he became acting manager. By 1924, he was its general manager, and in 1931, at the age of 33 he was elected as its president.\n\nDuring his incumbency, the San Miguel expanded beyond brewery and began to bottle Royal Tru-Orange and Coca-Cola, manufacture Magnolia ice cream and dairy products, carbonic acid, dry ice and Fleischmann's Yeast.\n\nIn the 1930s, Soriano established A. Soriano Corporation (ANSCOR) as a holding company for his investments outside of San Miguel. Initially, ANSCOR concentrated on natural resources and basic industries, investing in Atlas Consolidated Mining and Development Corporation, Phelps Dodge Philippines and Atlas Fertilizer Corporation. ANSCOR also went into insurance; gold mining (Antamok Mining, which together with the companies of John Hausserman and Jan Hendrik Marsman, made the Philippines second only to California as the top gold producer of the world); oil exploration (Philippine Oil Development Company, Inc.); airline (Philippine Airlines); copper mining (Atlas Consolidated); copper wire manufacture (Phelps Dodge Philippines); fertilizer from pyrite (Atlas Fertilizer); logging and lumber (Bislig Bay Lumber); paper manufacture (Paper Industries Corporation (PICOP)); fluorescent lamps and incandescent light bulbs (Philippine Electrical Manufacturing Company (PEMCO)); jute bags (Industrial Textiles Manufacturing Company of the Philippines, Inc. (ITEMCOP)); steel drums (Rheem Philippines); newspapers (\"The Philippines Herald\") and broadcasting (DZTV Channel 13). Atlas Consolidated grew to be the largest copper mine of its time in the Far East and one of the ten largest copper mines in the world.\n\nHe was a Spanish citizen and leader of the Philippine Falange during the late 1930s until he applied for Filipino citizenship.\n\nAfter becoming a Filipino citizen, Soriano served as secretary of finance, agriculture and commerce during the wartime cabinet of the Quezon administration. Soriano also served with USAFFE and later as a colonel on General Douglas MacArthur’s staff in the Southwest Pacific Theater.\n\nHe was granted American citizenship for his wartime services and remained an American citizen until his death.\n\nSoriano died on December 30, 1964 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1770489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1770489", "title": "Anthony Hardy", "text": "Anthony Hardy\n\nAnthony John Hardy (born 31 May 1951) is an English serial killer who is known as the Camden Ripper for dismembering some of his victims. In November 2003, he was sentenced to three life terms for three murders, but he may have killed up to nine people.\n\nBorn in Burton upon Trent, Staffordshire, England, Hardy had an apparently uneventful childhood and excelled in school and college. He earned an engineer's degree from Imperial College London and subsequently became a manager of a large company. Hardy married and fathered three sons and one daughter; his wife divorced him in 1986, accusing him of domestic violence. In 1982, Hardy was arrested in Tasmania for trying to drown his wife, but the charges were later dropped.\n\nAfter the divorce, Hardy spent time in mental hospitals, diagnosed with bipolar disorder. He lived in various hostels in London, picking up convictions for theft and being drunk and disorderly. He was arrested in 1998 when a prostitute accused him of raping her, but the charges were dropped due to lack of evidence. He became an alcoholic and diabetic.\n\nIn January 2002, police were called to the block of flats where Hardy lived by a neighbour complaining that someone had vandalised her front door and that she strongly suspected Hardy. When the police investigated Hardy's flat, they found a locked door and, despite his claims to the contrary, found that Hardy had a key to it. In the room the police found the naked dead body of a woman lying on a bed with cuts and bruises to her head. She was identified as Sally White, 38, a prostitute who had been living in London.\n\nForensic pathologist Freddy Patel subsequently concluded that White had died of a heart attack, in spite of the circumstances. Patel later came under scrutiny for this and other findings in his career, including the 2009 death of Ian Tomlinson, resulting in a suspension from the government's register of pathologists pending an inquiry. In 2012, his name was erased from the medical register by the General Medical Council, meaning that he can no longer practise medicine in the United Kingdom.\n\nHardy pleaded guilty to a charge of criminal damage and claimed he had no knowledge of how White came to be in his flat due to his drinking problem. Whilst in custody Hardy was transferred to a psychiatric hospital, under section 37 of the Mental Health Act 1983, remaining there until November 2002.\n\nOn 30 December 2002, a homeless man scavenging for food in bins found some of the dismembered remains of two women, stuffed into bin-liners. The victims were identified as Bridgette MacClennan, 34, and Elizabeth Valad, 29. The investigation led to Hardy, who was arrested a week later. He had gone on the run, but was spotted by an off-duty policeman when he went to Great Ormond Street Hospital to collect his prescription for insulin. During a search of the grounds of the hospital, Hardy was found hiding behind bins. A fight took place as he resisted arrest, during the course of which a police officer was knocked unconscious and another officer was stabbed through the hand and had his eye socket dislocated. Despite suffering these injuries, the wounded police officer held Hardy until backup arrived and he was arrested at the scene. A subsequent search of his flat found evidence, including old blood stains, indicating the two women had been killed and dismembered there. Both had died over the Christmas holidays.\n\nUnder arrest, Hardy simply replied \"no comment\" to every question put to him by police. He was eventually charged with the murders of both MacClennan and Valad, and of White, the woman whose death had originally been put down to natural causes. At his trial in November 2003 Hardy, despite his initial lack of cooperation with the police, abruptly changed his plea to guilty to all three counts of murder and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Because of Hardy's history of psychiatric problems and violent behaviour, an independent enquiry was announced into his care.\n\nIt has been reported that police believe Hardy is possibly connected to the unsolved cases of two prostitutes found dismembered and dumped in the River Thames, and up to five or six other murders that bore marked similarities to the ones for which he was convicted, but where not enough evidence is available directly implicating him. \n\nHardy has been diagnosed with a personality disorder. In May 2010, a High Court judge decided that Hardy should never be released from prison, placing him on the list of whole life tariff prisoners. Mr Justice Keith, sitting in London, said: \"This is one of those exceptionally rare cases in which life should mean life.\"\n\nHardy was the subject of an episode of \"Evil Up Close\" on the Crime and Investigation Network, focusing on the 2010 decision to keep Hardy in prison for the rest of his life. The film was directed by Robert Murray and written and produced by Will Hanrahan. After Hardy was imprisoned British rap artist Plan B released a song about Hardy, dubbing him the 'Camden Ripper'. Hardy is also mentioned, and his flat pointed out, in the music video \"Guided tour of Camden\" by Charlie Sloth. Hardy was the subject of a Channel 4 documentary, \"The Hunt for the Camden Ripper\", broadcast in 2004. It was narrated by Juliet Stevenson and directed by Olly Lambert.\n"}
{"id": "1929338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929338", "title": "Armenoid race", "text": "Armenoid race\n\nIn the racial anthropology of the early 20th century, the Armenoid type is a subtype of the Caucasian race. According to anthropologist Carleton Coon, the countries of the northern part of Western Asia, namely Anatolia/Asia Minor, the Caucasus, Iran, Upper Mesopotamia and the Levant, were considered the center of distribution of the Armenoid race.\n\nProminent Nazi and racial theorist Hans F. K. Günther used the term 'Near Eastern race' to describe the Armenoid type, and ascribed Near Eastern characteristics to several contemporary peoples, including: Armenians, Jews, Greeks, Georgians, Iranians, Assyrians, Syrians, and Turks. Günther regarded Jews as people of multiple racial origins but defined the Near Eastern race as their major basis, and described the race's characteristics such as its \"commercial spirit\" and as being \"artful traders\" who had strong psychological manipulation capacities that helped their trade, as well as being known to exploit people. Günther's conception has been criticized for pseudoscientific analysis. Nazis historically identified Jews as within the Armenoid type in the name of the Near Eastern race. Nazis utilized the Armenoid type in the name of the Near Eastern race, and identified Jews as a particular group within that type.\n\nRenato Biasutti described the Armenoid race as having: \"Opaque-white skin, brunet hair and eyes, abundant pilosity; medium stature (166), sturdy body build; wide head with rounded occiput (87); very long face, straight and narrow nose (57) with high bridge; thin lips, narrow eye opening. \n\nCarleton S. Coon wrote that the Armenoid racial type is very similar to the Dinaric race, most probably due to racial mixture with the Mediterraneans (who often have olive skin) and the Alpines (who often have brown skin). The only difference is that Armenoids have a slightly darker pigmentation. He described the Armenoid as a sub-race of the Caucasoid race.\nArmenoids were said to be found throughout Eurasia. However, the largest concentrations occurred within Anatolia, Transcaucasia, Iran, and Mesopotamia. \n\nConsidered to be the \"true\" Caucasians, Armenoids were relatively tall, usually with medium to dark brown or black hair, light to medium skin colour, large round eyes that were usually brown; a round, brachycephalic head shape with a straight backing (planocciput) (see Cephalic index), high cheekbones and non-prominent chins. Lips were full, and noses were often aquiline. Large minority of Armenoids have blond hair and blue, green, or hazel eyes. This racial type was believed to be prevalent among the Armenians, Assyrians, and Iraqis. \n\nThe Armenoid race type exists to the west and north of the Arabid race, and encompasses the modern Armenians, Assyrians, Maronites, Greeks, Turks, Kurds, Georgians, Iranians, Israelis, Syrians, Druze, Yazidis, Shabaks, Mandeans and Mhallami, together with the ancient ancestors and/or predecessors of these peoples, such as the Assyrians, Akkadians, Babylonians, Chaldeans, Eblaites, Amorites, Canaanites, Kassites, Gutians, Hittites, Hattians, Hurrians, Phrygians, Lydians, Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Medes, Persians, Scythians, Israelites, Samaritans, Judeans, Edomites, Moabites, Ammonites, Philistines, Cilicians, Cappadocians and Minoans among others.\n\nThe Armenoid is divided into four types: Armenid, Anatolid, Assyrid, and Caucasid.\n\nAssyrid - Assyrians, Levantine people, Ashkenazi Jews, Sicilians, and the Maltese people belong to this type. Assyrids are of middling height and generally have a medium build. They are usually considered to have a slight Arabid influence.\n\nCaucasid - Robust type prevalent among the people of the Caucasus, such as in Georgia, Turkey, and even Sicily.\n\n"}
{"id": "33165960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33165960", "title": "Barbara Ibrahim", "text": "Barbara Ibrahim\n\nBarbara Lethem Ibrahim (born March 21, 1949) is the founding director of the John D. Gerhart Center for Philanthropy and Civic Engagement at the American University in Cairo. Internationally recognized as a prominent sociologist of the Arab world, \nIbrahim has published widely in the areas of gender and health, Arab philanthropy, women’s employment and youth studies. Prior to founding the Gerhart Center in 2006, Ibrahim was regional director for West Asia and North Africa at the Population Council in Egypt. She had previously served as the Middle East program officer for urban poverty and women’s studies programs for the Ford Foundation. Ibrahim serves on numerous international boards, speaks widely on the current youth generation in Egypt and the Arab region, and is a Core Group Member of the Arab Families Working Group.\nIbrahim earned a BA in Sociology from DePauw University, an MA in sociology from the American University of Beirut in 1975, and a Ph.D. in sociology from Indiana University in 1980. She received the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Association of Middle East Women’s Studies in 2003, and was inducted into the International Educators’ Hall of Fame in 1999.\n\nShe is married to Saad Eddin Ibrahim, an Egyptian American sociologist and one of Egypt's leading human rights and democracy activists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4403593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4403593", "title": "Bashir Shihab II", "text": "Bashir Shihab II\n\nBashir Shihab II (also spelt \"Bachir Chehab II\"; 2 January 1767–1850) was a Lebanese emir who ruled Lebanon in the first half of the 19th century. Born in a family who had converted from Sunni Islam, the religion of previous Shihabi Emirs, he was the only Maronite ruler of the Emirate of Mount Lebanon.\n\nBashir was born in 1767 in Ghazir, a village in the Keserwan region of Mount Lebanon. He was the son of Qasim ibn Umar ibn Haydar ibn Husayn Shihab of the Shihab dynasty, which had inherited the super tax farm of Mount Lebanon, also known as the Mount Lebanon Emirate, from their Druze kinsmen, the Ma'an dynasty in 1697. Although the Shihab family was ostensibly Sunni Muslim, some members of the family had converted to the Maronite Catholic Church. Bashir was among the first members of his extended family to be born a Christian.\n\nIn 1768, when Bashir was still an infant, his father Qasim died. Bashir's mother remarried, and he and his elder brother Hasan were entrusted to the care of tutors and nannies. The children were raised in poverty and did not benefit from the privileges of a princely birth; their branch of the family was relatively poor. Bashir and Hasan developed feelings of mistrust from their childhoods that made them wary of their companions and of members of their own family. Leadership of Qasim's branch of the family was taken up by Hasan. The latter had a reputation for being cruel and aloof. Bashir, meanwhile, grew to become a cunning, stubborn and clever opportunist who was more able to control his temper and conceal his callousness. He sought out wealth working with his cousin Emir Yusuf in Deir al-Qamar, the virtual capital of Mount Lebanon, where he also gained an education. Bashir's personal qualities established him as a leading figure in the Shihabi court where he engaged in political intrigues. His activity in Deir al-Qamar attracted the attention of Qasim Jumblatt, Yusuf's main adversary, who sought to install Bashir at the head of the Emirate. When probed on the subject by the Jumblatt sheikhs, Bashir was noncommittal but left room for negotiations; his hesitance was a result of his financial destitution.\n\nBashir II's financial fortunes changed in 1787 when he was dispatched to Hasbaya to inventory the assets of Yusuf's maternal uncle, Bashir ibn Najm, the son of Najm Shihab, leader of the Sunni Muslim, Hasbaya-based branch of the clan. Yusuf killed Bashir ibn Najm for backing the revolt against him led by Yusuf's brother Ahmad. During Bashir II assignment in Hasbaya, he married Bashir ibn Najm's wealthy widow, Shams. She was also known as \"Hubus\" and \"Shams al-Madid\", the latter of which translates in Arabic as \"sun of the long day\". Bashir II had previously encountered Shams on a hunting trip to Kfar Nabrakh, but at the time she was arranged by her father, Muhammad Shihab, to be married to Bashir ibn Najm, his nephew. With the latter, Shams had a son named Nasim and a daughter named Khadduj. Although Bashir II was a Christian and Shams was a Muslim, members of the Shihab family typically married within the family and with the Druze Abu'l Lama clan, regardless of religion. As a result of his marriage to Shams, Bashir II gained considerable wealth. Shams later had three sons with him: Qasim, Khalil and Amin (listed in order of birth).\n\nIn 1829, Shams died, and Bashir had a mausoleum built for her nestled in the orchards of Beit el-Din. Afterward, a friend of Bashir from Sidon named Ibrahim al-Jawhari set out to find a new wife for Bashir. Al-Jawhari already knew a Circassian slave girl named Hisn Jihan in Istanbul. She was the daughter of a certain Abdullah Afruz al-Sharkasi, but had been kidnapped by Turkish slave dealers and sold to a certain Luman Bey, who was known to have treated her like a daughter. Al-Jawhari suggested that Bashir marry Jihan. Bashir agreed, but also instructed al-Jawhari to buy her and three other slave girls in case Jihan was not to his satisfaction. In 1833, al-Jawhari brought Jihan (then aged 15) and three other slave girls, Kulhinar, Shafkizar and Maryam, to Bashir. The latter was enthralled by Jihan, married her and built a palace for her in Beit el-Din. Jihan was a Muslim and Bashir had her convert to the Maronite Church before the marriage.\n\nAccording to contemporary chroniclers of the time, Jihan was seclusive and only left her residence fully veiled, was a loving wife to Bashir, wielded significant influence over him and was reputed for her enchantment and charitable efforts with Mount Lebanon's inhabitants. She became known as \"sa'adat al-sitt\", which translates as \"her excellency, the lady\". Jihan had two daughters with Bashir, Sa'da and Sa'ud. The other slave girls from Istanbul were married off to Bashir's relatives or associates; Kulhinar was married to Bashir's son Qasim, Shafkizar was married to Bashir's kinsmen Mansur Shihab of Wadi Shahrour and Maryam was married to a certain Agha Nahra al-Bishi'lani of Salima.\n\nBashir emerged on Mount Lebanon's political scene in the mid-1780s when he became involved in an intra-family dispute over leadership of the Shihabi emirate in 1783. In that dispute, Bashir backed emirs Isma'il and Sayyid-Ahmad Shihab against Emir Yusuf, who ultimately prevailed when the powerful Ottoman governor of Sidon, Ahmad Pasha al-Jazzar, confirmed his control of the Mount Lebanon tax farms after Yusuf promised him a bribe of 1,000,000 qirsh. Bashir subsequently reconciled with Yusuf. Five years later, however, al-Jazzar attempted to collect Yusuf's promissory bribe, but payment of the large sum did not materialize, and al-Jazzar shifted his support to Yusuf's rival, Ali Shihab, Isma'il's son. Ali, who sought to avenge Isma'il's death in Yusuf's custody, and Yusuf mobilized their allies and confronted each other at Jubb Jannin, where Yusuf's forces were routed by Ali and al-Jazzar. Yusuf fled to the Tripoli hinterland and was compelled to request the Druze landowning sheikhs to appoint his replacement. With the key backing of the Jumblatt clan, Bashir was selected by the Druze sheikhs to be their \"hakim\". For the Druze sheikhs of Mount Lebanon, the \"hakim\" denoted the leader prince who served as their intermediary with the Ottoman authorities, and who nominally had political, military, social and judicial authority over their affairs. Bashir traveled to al-Jazzar's headquarters in Acre, where he was officially transferred the Mount Lebanon tax farms in September 1789.\n\nMeanwhile, Yusuf attempted to restore himself to the Shihabi emirate, mobilizing his partisans in Jubail and Bsharri, while Bashir had the support of the Jumblatt clan (his main backer among the Druze) and al-Jazzar, who loaned him 1,000 of his Albanian and Maghrebi soldiers. Bashir's forces decisively defeated Yusuf's partisans in the Munaytara hills, but Yusuf escaped after receiving cover from the Ottoman governors of Tripoli and Damascus. However, Yusuf was later invited to Acre by al-Jazzar in a ruse by the latter and was virtually under arrest upon his arrival to the city. While al-Jazzar considered playing Yusuf and Bashir off of each other by soliciting bribes for the Mount Lebanon tax farm, Bashir managed to convince al-Jazzar that Yusuf was causing strife among the Druze clans, and al-Jazzar subsequently decided to execute Yusuf in 1790.\n\nDespite prevailing over Yusuf, the Druze sheikhs of the Yazbaki faction (rivals of the Jumblatti faction) managed to lobby al-Jazzar to transfer the Mount Lebanon tax farms from Bashir to Yusuf's nephews, Qa'dan and Haydar. Not long after, Jirji Baz, the \"mudabbir\" (manager) of Yusuf's sons Husayn and Sa'ad ad-Din, persuaded Qa'dan and Haydar to grant Yusuf's sons the tax farm of Jubail. Bashir and his ally Sheikh Bashir Jumblatt resisted this situation by successfully preventing Qa'dan and Haydar from collecting the taxes that they were mandated to deliver to al-Jazzar. The latter lent Emir Bashir and Sheikh Bashir his support against Baz, Yusuf's sons and their Imad (leading clan of the Yazbaki faction) and Abi Nakad backers. Bashir succeeded in forcibly restoring himself as \"hakim\", but by 1794, al-Jazzar again shifted his support to Baz and Yusuf's sons after Bashir apparently fleeced al-Jazzar in his tax payments that year. This was short-lived as al-Jazzar reverted to Bashir in 1795 after abundant complaints were raised against Baz.\n\nIn 1797, Baz reestablished good offices with al-Jazzar, bringing him Yusuf's sons to pay their respects. Al-Jazzar wielded his potential support for Yusuf's sons as a way to leverage Bashir into paying more taxes or risk losing his Mount Lebanon tax farms. At the same time, Emir Bashir decided to eliminate his Abi Nakad opponents and to that end, he conspired with the Jumblatts and Imads. Emir Bashir invited the Abi Nakad sheikhs to the counselor's quarters of his palace in Deir al-Qamar, where Bashir Jumblatt and the Imad sheikhs ambushed and killed all five of them. According to a contemporary source, the killings effectively meant that the \"Nakad name was obliterated\".\n\nRelations soured between al-Jazzar and Bashir in 1799, during Napoleon Bonaparte's two-month siege of Acre. Al-Jazzar had called on Bashir to contribute forces to aid Acre's defense, but Bashir disregarded the troop levy. Al-Jazzar was infuriated, and although Bashir took a strictly neutral position in the conflict, al-Jazzar accused him of sending the French troops provisions. He subsequently forced Bashir to depart Mount Lebanon by sending an expeditionary force to help Baz oust Bashir from Deir al-Qamar. Bashir, along with Sheikh Bashir and many of his fellow Jumblatti sheikhs, left Deir al-Qamar and headed north for Akkar and the area of the Krak des Chevaliers (al-Husn). Emir Bashir thereafter penned a letter appealing to the British admiral, Sydney Smith, whose forces' bombardment of French troops was key in forcing the French withdrawal from Palestine, to use his offices with the imperial Ottoman authorities to restore him to Mount Lebanon. Smith responded positively to his plea, docked his ship in Tripoli's port and met with Bashir, who then accompanied Smith to meet the Ottoman Grand Vizier, Kör Yusuf Ziyaüddin Pasha in al-Arish. Kör Yusuf was in al-Arish commanding the Ottoman ground army to retake Egypt from the French. Bashir informed Kör Yusuf of his situation with al-Jazzar and was treated well by the grand vizier, who thereafter issued a decree granting Bashir fiscal authority over Mount Lebanon, Wadi al-Taym, the Beqaa Valley and the Shia Muslim-dominated Jabal Amil. As part of this arrangement, Bashir would be independent from the governors of Sidon, Tripoli and Damascus and would submit tax revenues directly to the imperial government. However, this major appointment was tempered by Bashir's lack of actual control over his assigned lands, which al-Jazzar had largely transferred to Yusuf's sons and Baz.\n\nIn 1800, Emir Bashir appealed for unity with Baz, writing to him, \"How long will this fighting continue in which we lose men and our land is devastated?\" Baz agreed to meet Bashir in secret and the two reached a deal without al-Jazzar's knowledge, whereby Bashir would control the Druze areas of Mount Lebanon and Maronite-dominated Keserwan, while Yusuf's sons would control the northern areas, such as Jubail and Batroun. Bashir promised to uphold the agreement, swearing an oath on both the Quran and the Gospel. Bashir also hired Baz to be his \"mudabbir\", replacing the Maronite Dahdah clan as his traditional provider of \"mudabbirs\". Al-Jazzar was outraged when the agreement became apparent, and lent his support to the Yazbaki faction against the new alliance between Baz, Emir Bashir and Sheikh Bashir Jumblatt. For the next four years, the Yazbakis, led by the Imad clan, sponsored a rival Shihab emir to usurp the emirate, but failed each time. Most of the Druze sheikhs condemned the Imad clan in 1803 and rallied to Emir Bashir. Al-Jazzar died in 1804 and was ultimately succeeded by his former \"mamluk\" (manumitted slave soldier), Sulayman Pasha al-Adil.\n\nWith the relief of pressure from Sidon after al-Jazzar's death, Emir Bashir felt less reliant on Baz for maintaining power. Baz, meanwhile, had been asserting his influence in Mount Lebanon and often acted out of concert with Bashir, bypassing the latter's authority. Baz also formed an alliance with Maronite Patriarch Yusuf al-Tiyyan, to the chagrin of the Druze sheikhs, who perceived Baz's growing power as representative of the Maronite political upswing that grew at the expense of the Druze sheikhs, many of whom (including Sheikh Bashir Jumblatt), feared Baz. The Druze were also offended because Baz's power derived from his sponsorship by their overlord, Emir Bashir. The latter too had become irate over Baz's rising influence with the Ottoman governors, and felt particularly humiliated by Baz's canceling of a land survey of Keserwan ordered by Emir Hasan (Bashir's brother) and other humilitations regarding Baz's treatment of Emir Hasan. Bashir arranged to have Baz killed, recruiting Druze fighters from the Jumblatti and Yazbaki factions to commit the act. Thus, on 15 May 1807, Baz was ambushed and strangled on his way to Bashir's residence, while Bashir's Druze partisans occupied Jubail, killing Baz's brother and capturing and blinding Yusuf's sons. Afterward, Bashir sent assurances of loyalty to the governors of Tripoli and Sidon. Bashir also pressured Patriarch al-Tiyyan to step down.\n\nWith the elimination of Baz and Yusuf's sons, Emir Bashir consolidated his rule over Mount Lebanon. In 1810, Sulayman Pasha gave Bashir a leasehold for life over the Chouf and Keserwan tax districts, effectively making him the lifetime ruler of Mount Lebanon. Moreover, Sulayman Pasha would thereafter address Bashir in their correspondence with the honorary title of \"pride of noble princes, authority over great lords, our noble son, Emir Bashir al-Shihabi\". Circumstances that restricted his power at the time were the annual tax revenues due to Sulayman Pasha and the Jumblatt clan's domination over the other Druze sheikhs, who Sheikh Bashir protected from Emir Bashir's imposition of supplementary impositions.\n\nThe Maronite peasantry did not have such protection from Bashir's supplementary impositions, partly due to the loss of elite Maronite figures such as Baz and Patriarch Tiyyal, as well as the decline in power of the Maronite Khazen \"muqata'jis\" (subsidiary tax farmers, who were effectively enfeoffed feudal lords). The Maronite peasantry became frustrated with Emir Bashir because of the additional taxes imposed on them, while the Maronite Church was becoming increasingly angry at Emir Bashir's concealment of his Maronite Catholic faith. Bashir's behavior was influenced by the political environment of the time, during which the Ottoman state reasserted demonstration of its Sunni Islamic piety to counter the puritanical Sunni Wahhabi tribesmen who embarrassed the Ottomans by wresting control of Mecca in 1806. In concurrence with the Ottomans' suppression of the Wahhabi revolt in 1818 and Sheikh Bashir openly presenting himself as a Sunni Muslim, Emir Bashir instructed the members of the Shihab clan to publicly observe Ramadan in order not to be undermined by his chief Druze ally. By publicly partaking in a Muslim holiday, Emir Bashir deeply offended the Maronite Church.\n\nIn 1819, Abdullah Pasha succeeded Sulayman Pasha as the Acre-based governor of Sidon, and upon his accession to office, he demanded extra taxes from Bashir in the form of 1,000,000 dirhams. Bashir understood this to be an attempt by Abdullah to foment a conflict between him and the inhabitants of Mount Lebanon, and he sought to defuse tensions with Abdullah Pasha. To that end, Bashir sent his \"mudabbir\" (adviser to an emir who promoted to the social rank of sheikh), Butrus Karami, to mediate his case with Abdullah, to which the latter responded by mobilizing his troops and entertaining ties with Bashir's Shihabi rivals. Bashir conceded to Abdullah's demand, and in order to gather funds for the payment, Bashir imposed a two-year advance on the \"jizya\" (poll tax for non-Muslims) and \"kharaj\" (land tax) on the Maronite peasants of Matn, Keserwan, Batroun and Jubail. He excluded the Druze \"muqata'jis\" from the same taxes. Bashir also passed on an additional charge by Abdullah Pasha for 50,000 dirhams to the Maronite peasants.\n\nIn reaction to Bashir's tax levies, the Maronite patriarch Yusuf Istifan rallied around 6,000 Maronite peasants to a summit by the Antelias stream, marking the start of the \"ammiya\" (popular uprising) movement. At Antelias, the peasants agreed to reject Bashir's additional impositions, and appointed \"wukala\" (delegates; sing. \"wakil\") from each of their villages to represent their interests. The \"ammiya\" attracted the support of the Yazbaki chief, Ali Imad, two emirs from the Shihab clan and the Shia sheikhs. Abdullah Pasha, intent on removing Bashir from Mount Lebanon, also stood by the peasants in their demands not to pay anything more than the traditional annual taxes. Faced with this opposition, Bashir entered into self-exile to the Hauran under the protection of Damascus Eyalet's governor Dervish Pasha. Accompanying Emir Bashir were Sheikh Bashir Jumblatt and a number of emirs from the Arslan and Abu'l Lama clans. The Yazbaki faction, with Abdullah Pasha's blessing, proceeded to appoint two Sunni Muslim emirs from the Rashayya branch of the Shihab clan, Hasan and Salman, as Emir Bashir's successors on 14 April 1819.\n\nBy 1820, the Ottoman Empire was entering into war with Russia and attempting to quell a Greek uprising in Morea, prompting the Sublime Porte (Ottoman imperial government) to issue orders to Abdullah Pasha to fortify Syria's coastal cities and disarm Christians in his province. Abdullah Pasha believed only Emir Bashir was capable of fulfilling this task and sought to make way for his return to Mount Lebanon. To accomplish this, Abdullah Pasha ordered Hasan and Salman to promptly pay him 1,100,000 dirhams, a seemingly insurmountable levy. At the same time, Emir Bashir's allies in Mount Lebanon undermined Hasan and Salman, while Emir Bashir entered Jezzine, in the environs of Deir al-Qamar. Due to these factors, Hasan and Salman ultimately conceded to step down in favor of Bashir after mediation by \"'uqqal\" (Druze religious leaders). According to the agreement reached on 17 May 1820, a referendum would be held among the inhabitants of Mount Lebanon regarding leadership of the emirate. Before the referendum could be held, however, Abdullah Pasha restored Bashir's authority on the condition that he collect the \"jizya\" for the Sublime Porte.\n\nThe Maronite peasants and clergymen of Jubail, Bsharri and Batroun decided to take up armed resistance against Bashir's impositions, and garnered the support of the Shia Muslim Hamade sheikhs. The peasants proceeded to assemble at Lehfed, Haqil and Ehmej, while Shia villagers assembled at Ras Mishmish. They selected \"wukkal\" for their districts, called for fiscal equality with their Druze counterparts, and declared a revolt against Emir Bashir. Among the leading \"wukkal\" was historian Abu Khattar al-Aynturini, who promoted the idea that the Shihabi emirate was a conduit for Maronite solidarity. Emir Bashir enlisted the support of sheikhs Bashir and Hammud Abu Nakad. With their Druze fighters, Emir Bashir forces the Maronites in northern Mount Lebanon to submit to his orders. The episode augmented the growing chasm between an increasingly assertive Maronite community and the Druze \"muqata'jis\" and peasants. According to historian William Harris, the \"\"ammiya\", which expressed discordance between Bashir II's ambition and the interests of an increasingly coherent majority community, was a major step toward modern Lebanon. It represented the first peasant articulation of identity and the first demand for autonomy for Mount Lebanon.\"\n\nIn 1821, Bashir became entangled in a dispute between Abdullah Pasha and Dervish Pasha. The crisis was precipitated when the latter's \"mutasallim\" (deputy governor/tax collector) for the Beqaa Valley raided 'Aammiq, when the latter's inhabitants denied him entry into the village. Bashir attempted to mediate the dispute, and Dervish Pasha signaled his willingness to cede Damascus's traditional jurisdiction over the Beqaa Valley to Abdullah Pasha's Sidon Eyalet. Abdullah Pasha refused this offer and requested that Bashir take over the Beqaa Valley. Bashir accepted the task, albeit with reluctance, and under the command of his son Khalil, Bashir's forces swiftly conquered the region. Khalil was subsequently made \"mutasallim\" of the Beqaa Valley by Abdullah Pasha. In response, Dervish Pasha mobilized the support of the Yazbaki faction and a number of Shihabi emirs to reassert Damascene control over the area. However, Dervish Pasha's forces were defeated in the Anti-Lebanon Range and in the Hauran.\n\nThe Sublime Porte was troubled by Abdullah Pasha and Emir Bashir's actions against Damascus, and dispatched Mustafa Pasha, the governor of Aleppo Eyalet, to reinforce Dervish Pasha and help him defeat Abdullah Pasha. Mustafa Pasha sent an emissary to Mount Lebanon to announce an imperial decree dismissing Bashir from the Mount Lebanon tax farms, and reappointing Hasan and Salman. Afterward, Mustafa Pasha, Dervish Pasha and the leaders of the Yazbaki Druze persuaded Sheikh Bashir to defect from Emir Bashir in return for replacing Hasan and Salman with Abbas As'ad Shihab, which officially occurred on 22 July 1821. The governors' forces, backed by the Druze, proceeded to besiege Abdullah Pasha's Acre headquarters, and Emir Bashir left Mount Lebanon for Egypt by sea on 6 August, having lost the backing of his most crucial ally, Sheikh Bashir. However, Emir Bashir gained a new, powerful ally in Egypt's virtually autonomous governor, Muhammad Ali. At the same time, Abdullah Pasha also requested support from Muhammad Ali, who saw in Emir Bashir and Abdullah Pasha the key to bringing Ottoman Syria under his hegemony. Muhammad Ali persuaded the Sublime Porte to issue pardons for Bashir and Abdullah Pasha, and to lift the siege on Acre in March 1822.\n\nIn return for Muhammad Ali's support, Bashir agreed to mobilize 4,000 fighters at the former's disposal upon request. Before returning to Mount Lebanon, Emir Bashir issued orders to Sheikh Bashir to pay a large sum of 1,000,000 piasters in return for a pardon, but Sheikh Bashir instead opted for self-exile in the Hauran. From there, Sheikh Bashir began preparations for war with Emir Bashir. Sheikh Bashir struck an alliance with his Druze rival, Ali Imad, head of the Yazbaki faction, the Arslan clan, the Khazen sheikhs of Keserwan, and the Shihab emirs who were opposed to Emir Bashir's rule. With 7,000 armed supporters, Sheikh Bashir entered Beit el-Din in a demonstration of power to force Emir Bashir to reconcile with him. Emir Bashir continued to insist that Sheikh Bashir make the full payment to compensate for his betrayal, prompting unsuccessful mediation attempts by various Druze and Maronite sheikhs and Maronite bishop, Abdullah al-Bustani of Sidon. Emir Bashir and Sheikh Bashir thereafter readied for war.\n\nEmir Bashir experienced a setback when he clashed with Sheikh Bashir's forces on 28 December 1824. However, this loss was reversed following Abdullah Pasha's dispatch of 500 Albanian irregulars to aid Emir Bashir on 2 January 1825. Upon the arrival of the reinforcements, Emir Bashir launched an attack and routed Sheikh Jumblatt's forces near the latter's headquarters at Moukhtara. Afterward, Sheikh Bashir and Imad fled for the Hauran, and Emir Bashir pardoned enemy fighters who surrendered. Imad and Sheikh Bashir were subsequently captured by the forces of Damascus's governor, with Imad being summarily executed and Sheikh Bashir being sent to Abdullah Pasha's custody in Acre. Upon request from Muhammad Ali, who sought to ensure Emir Bashir's reorganization of Mount Lebanon went unhindered, Abdullah Pasha had Sheikh Bashir executed on 11 June.\n\nEmir Bashir proceeded to reorganize the tax farms (virtual fiefs) of Mount Lebanon to strengthen the hand of his remaining Druze allies and deny his enemies a fiscal power base. As such, the Jumblatts were dismissed from the tax districts of Chouf, Kharrub, Tuffah, Jezzine, Jabal al-Rihan and the eastern and western Beqaa Valley regions, which were redistributed to Bashir's son Khalil, the Talhuqs, and Nasif and Hammud Abu Nakad. Furthermore, the personal residences and orchards of the Jumblatt and Imad sheikhs were destroyed. Bashir's campaign prompted many Druze to leave for the Hauran to escape potential retribution.\n\nTo centralize his rule over the emirate (as opposed to the previous bipartite regime with Sheikh Bashir), Emir Bashir proceeded to assume control over legislative and judicial powers by setting up a defined legal code based on the Sharia law of the Ottoman state. Moreover, he transferred jurisdiction over civil and criminal affairs from the mostly Druze \"muqata'jis\" to three special \"qudah\" (judges; sing. \"qadi\"), whom he personally appointed. As such, he assigned a \"qadi\" in Deir al-Qamar in Chouf, who mostly oversaw the affairs of the Druze, and two Maronite clergymen who were based in Ghazir or Zouk Mikael in Keserwan and Zgharta in northern Mount Lebanon, respectively. Although the new legal code was based on Sharia, Bashir did not seek to overturn deeply-entrenched customary law, and the \"qudah\" typically relied on local customs in their judicial decisions, and only referred to the Sharia as a last resort.\n\nEmir Bashir's alliance with Muhammad Ali and his falling out with Sheikh Bashir, under whose consent Emir Bashir had been able to rule Mount Lebanon for the preceding two decades, marked a major turning point in Emir Bashir's political career. Emir Bashir's loss of Druze support and his subsequent destruction of their feudal power paved the way for the strengthening of his ties with the Maronite Church. Moreover, Bashir looked to the Maronite clergy as the natural alternative to substitute the Druze in his new, highly centralized administration. Concurrently, he became more at ease with embracing his Christian faith since he no longer depended on Druze support. Patriarch Yusuf Hubaysh greatly welcomed the aforementioned developments.\n\nBetween 1825 and his demise in 1840, Bashir installed Maronite patriarchs, bishops, and lower-ranked priests as the principal functionaries of his administration and as advisers. In effect, Maronite clergymen, who had long dominated the religious and secular aspects of Maronite life, acquired the privileges that the Druze \"muqata'jis\" had previously maintained with Bashir and his Shihabi predecessors. The lower-ranked clergymen in particular obtained Bashir's sponsorship to help them rise through the hierarchy of the Maronite Church in return for their support and their efforts to promote loyalty and love for Bashir among the Maronite peasantry. These clergymen were also at the forefront of efforts to roll back the excesses imposed on Maronite tenants from their Druze lords and the latter's influence in the tax districts in general. Meanwhile, the remaining Druze \"muqata'jis\" continued to serve as the leaders of a Druze community that was increasingly resentful of Maronite ascendancy at the expense of Druze power. As a consequence of this situation, communal tensions between the Druze and the Maronites grew further. Throughout this period, the Ottoman government permitted Bashir's patronage of Maronite domination in Mount Lebanon.\n\nMuhammad Ali sought to annex Syria, and as a pretext to invade the region, he published a list of complaints against Abdullah Pasha, who in turn received the support of Sultan Mahmud II. The latter had the mufti of Istanbul issue a \"fatwa\" (Islamic edict) that declared Muhammad Ali an infidel, while Muhammad Ali had the Sharif of Mecca issue a \"fatwa\" that condemned Mahmud II for violating the Sharia and promoted Muhammad Ali as Islam's savior, subsequently setting the stage for war between Egypt and Istanbul. Under the command of Muhammad Ali's son Ibrahim Pasha, Egyptian forces began their conquest of Syria on 1 October 1831, capturing much of Palestine before besieging Abdullah Pasha in Acre on 11 November. Bashir faced a dilemma amid these developments as both Abdullah Pasha and Ibrahim Pasha sent emissaries requesting his support.\n\nBashir initially hesitated in choosing sides, but once he received word that Ibrahim Pasha was prepared to mobilize six of his regiments to devastate Mount Lebanon and its lucrative silk industry, and that Sheikh Bashir Jumblatt's sons Nu'man and Sa'id had made their way to Ibrahim Pasha's camp to pledge their allegiance, Bashir deferred to the Egyptians. He ultimately concluded that Muhammad Ali was stronger and more progressive than the Sublime Porte and believed he would risk losing his emirate by challenging the Egyptians. Moreover, his Maronite and Melkite allies also favored Egypt because of its centrality to eastern Mediterranean commerce and the religious egalitarianism of Muhammad Ali. Meanwhile, under the Sublime Porte's orders, the \"mutasallims\" of Beirut and Sidon and the \"walis\" of Tripoli and Aleppo stood by Abdullah Pasha, and issued warnings to Mount Lebanon's notables to do likewise. Bashir attempted to rally his Druze allies and rivals, such as Hammud Abu Nakad and several Jumblatt, Talhuq, Abd al-Malik, Imad and Arslan sheikhs, to defect to Muhammad Ali. Instead, they joined the Ottoman army mobilizing in Damascus under the command of the \"serasker\" (commander-in-chief), Mehmed Izzet Pasha. The latter issued a decree condemning Bashir as a rebel and replacing him with Nu'man Jumblatt.\n\nThe alignment of the major Druze clans with the Ottomans compelled Bashir to further rely on his growing Maronite power base. He subsequently directed Bishop Abdullah al-Bustani to appoint a Maronite military commander for each district, but to do so discreetly to avoid provoking a Druze backlash. The Maronite commanders were tasked with tax collection, which was traditionally the responsibility of the mostly Druze \"muqata'jis\", and to arm Maronite peasant fighters to suppress Druze dissent in Mount Lebanon. Concurrently, Bashir also had the properties of the pro-Ottoman Druze \"muqata'jis\" attacked or seized. On 21 May 1832, Egyptian forces captured Acre. Afterward, Bashir and Patriarch Hubaysh were ordered by Ibrahim Pasha to prepare their mostly Maronite troops for an assault against Damascus. Bashir's troops were commanded by his son Khalil, and together with the Egyptian army, they captured Damascus without resistance on 16 June, before routing the Ottoman army at Homs on 9 July. Khalil had previously fought alongside Ibrahim Pasha in Acre and Jerusalem. Khalil and his troops also participated in the Egyptian victory at Konya in southwestern Anatolia on 27 December.\n\nWith Syria conquered, Muhammad Ali launched a centralization effort in the region, abolishing the eyalets (provinces) of Damascus, Aleppo, Tripoli and Sidon (including Mount Lebanon) and replacing them with a single governorship based in Damascus. However, through his close alliance with Muhammad Ali, Bashir maintained his direct authority over the Mount Lebanon Emirate, preventing it from being subject to the Egyptian bureaucracy that centralized power in the rest of Syria. Moreover, he was offered the governorship of \"Arabistan\" (the territories of Syria), but declined to assume leadership over the region, which was then transferred to Muhammad Sharif Pasha. In 1832, Muhammad Ali rewarded Bashir by extending the latter's jurisdiction to include Jabal Amil, which Bashir assigned to his youngest son Majid, the northern tax district of Koura and the port cities of Sidon and Beirut. The latter had become the commercial outlet for Mount Lebanon's silk industry, Acre's successor as the political center of the Syrian coast and a principal residence for Egyptian officials, European consuls and Christian and Sunni Muslim merchants. Bashir was entrusted with police power over Mount Lebanon and the plains around Damascus. The expansion of his jurisdiction enriched Bashir with increased revenues to the point that his tribute from Syria was four times larger than that of Muhammad Ali.\n\nAs part of Muhammad Ali's centralization efforts, tax collection was official transferred from \"muqata'jis\" to the appointees of the central authorities in 1833/34. Bashir took advantage of this measure by confiscating the estates of the \"muqata'jis\" and assigning his relatives as the \"mutasallims\" of the various tax districts. As such, he appointed Khalil to Shahhar, Qasim to Chouf, Amin in Jubail, his brother Hasan's son Abdullah in Keserwan, his cousin Bashir in Tuffah and his associate Haydar Abu'l Lama in Matn.\n\nBashir suppressed several revolts against Muhammad Ali's conscription and disarmament policies in the mountainous regions throughout Syria in the service of Ibrahim Pasha. Because of Bashir's support for Muhammad Ali, his forces and allies in Mount Lebanon were allowed to keep their arms. The first major revolt suppressed was the peasants' revolt in Palestine, during which Muhammad Ali sent orders to Bashir to advance against Safad, one of the centers of the rebellion. Accordingly, Bashir led his troops toward the town, but before reaching it, he issued an ultimatum to the rebels demanding their surrender. The rebels sent a certain Sheikh Salih al-Tarshihi to negotiate terms with Bashir, and they ultimately agreed to surrender after another meeting with Bashir in Bint Jbeil. Bashir's Druze forces under the command of his son Amin, entered Safad without resistance on 18 July, making way for the displaced residents from its Jewish quarter to return. Between 1834 and 1835, Bashir's forces commanded by Khalil and his relatives also participated in the suppression of revolts in Akkar, Safita, the Krak des Chevaliers and an Alawite revolt in the mountainous region of Latakia. With the various rebellions quelled, resistance to disarmament and conscription by Muhammad Ali's administration was stifled for a few years.\n\nMuhammad Ali's position in Syria was shaken again in 1838, during the Druze revolt in Hauran, which attracted the support of the Jumblatt and Imad sheikhs of Mount Lebanon and Wadi al-Taym. The Shihab emirs of Hasbaya, Ahmad and Sa'd al-Din, were commissioned to put down the Druze rebels in Wadi al-Taym led by Shibli al-Uryan, while Bashir was ordered to mobilize a Christian force in April. Bashir acceded to Ibrahim Pasha's levy request, organizing a force under the leadership of his grandson Mahmud, which subsequently was sent to reinforce Ahmad and Sa'd ad-Din in Hasbaya. Bashir's troops were ambushed by Druze forces commanded by rival Shihab emirs, Bashir Qasim and Ali of Rashaya. Khalil and his Christian troops later came to Mahmud's aid, forcing the flight of Shibli to Hauran. Khalil and Ibrahim Pasha later routed the forces of Nasir ad-Din Imad and Hasan Jumblatt in July. A month later, Ibrahim Pasha and Shibli negotiated an end to the revolt, whereby the Druze would be exempted from conscription, corvée and additional taxes. The Christians of Mount Lebanon were rewarded for their support for Ibrahim Pasha with the distribution of 16,000 rifles. By the revolt's end, tensions between Christians and Druze were further heightened as the two sects mostly fought on opposing sides.\n\nThe Ottomans and British took advantage of Egypt's severely weakened position in Syria due to the heavy loss of troops and skilled officers in the 1838 revolt. After two years of diplomatic wrangling between Muhammad Ali, the Ottomans, Great Britain, France, and Russia, a war effort by an Ottoman-European alliance against Muhammad Ali's control over Syria was launched. Bashir's Druze and Christian rivals and dissidents to his rule in Mount Lebanon were courted and armed in an initiative by the British Foreign Secretary, Henry Palmerston. With British-Ottoman support, an alliance of sheikhs in Mount Lebanon, including the Abu Nakad, Abu'l Lama, Khazen, Shihab, Hubaysh and Dahdah clans, Khanjar al-Harfush, Ahmad Daghir, Yusuf al-Shantiri and Abu Samra Ghanim, launched a rebellion against Bashir and Ibrahim Pasha on 27 May 1840. Bashir managed to temporarily suppress the revolt by confiscating property from the rebels, issuing threats and offering tax reductions to uninvolved Druze sheikhs in return for their support. Most Druze did not join the revolt in its early stage due to its mostly Maronite or pro-Christian leadership based in Matn, Keserwan and the Sahil. By 13 July, Bashir informed the Egyptian authorities that the revolt was suppressed, and handed over 57 of the revolt's leaders and participants, including Haydar Abu'l Lama and Fransis al-Khazen, who were exiled to Upper Egypt. Bashir also had his sons and subordinate commanders collect the rebels' arms and redistribute most of them to his ally and kinsmen, Sa'd al-Din of Hasbaya.\n\nA European alliance consisting of Great Britain, Prussia, Russia and Austria backed the Ottomans, and through the British consul in Beirut, Richard Wood, sought to persuade Bashir to defect from Muhammad Ali in August 1840. This was after Wood, who had been accorded responsibility over settling Mount Lebanon's affairs by the Ottomans, had won over Patriarch Hubaysh with guarantees that the Ottomans would respect the privileges of the Maronite Church in Mount Lebanon. Bashir had previously been informed by the French consul that French expeditionary troops were set to land in Beirut to back Ibrahim Pasha, who by then maintained a force of 33,000 troops across Mount Lebanon under the command of Sulayman Pasha. Bashir maintained his loyalty to Muhammad Ali and rejected a total of three offers by Wood to defect to the Ottomans, including a warning by British diplomat Lord Ponsonby that Bashir should \"make haste to return to your [duty] to the Sultan\". The third offer by Wood came with a warning that British-Ottoman forces were on the verge of assaulting the Egyptians in Syria.\n\nMeanwhile, Bashir's nephew, Abdullah Shihab of Keserwan, defected to the Ottomans, along with the Khazen and Hubaysh sheikhs after the Ottomans offered to compensate them and their subordinates with tax relief for their revolt against Bashir a few months prior and after realizing that French support for Muhammad Ali was limited to the diplomatic realm. Abu Samra and the Maronites of Batroun, Jubail, Bsharri and Koura also defected from the Ottomans. Allied European and Ottoman forces began the naval bombardment of Beirut on 11 September, while the forces of Bashir's cousin, Bashir Qasim of Rashaya, attacked Sulayman Pasha's forces in Beirut, Sidon and Acre. While Ibrahim Pasha headed for Mount Lebanon from northern Syria, allied forces set up headquarters in Jounieh, north of Beirut, and began distributing weapons to Bashir Qasim's rebels. By 25 September, allied forces had captured Beirut, Sidon and Haifa, Tyre, cutting off Egyptian sea access to Ibrahim Pasha's troops.\n\nStill unable to solicit Bashir's defection, Sultan Abdülmecid I issued a \"firman\" (imperial decree) replacing Bashir with Bashir Qasim on 8 October. After a failed attempt to woo the Druze sheikhs to his side by promising them complete control of Keserwan, Ibrahim Pasha fled, while Bashir surrendered to the Ottomans on 11 October. Bashir offered the Ottomans four million piasters to be exiled to France, but his offer was rejected. Instead, he was given the choice between exile in Malta or London. Bashir chose the former, and departed Beirut for Malta, bringing with him Jihan, all of his children and grandchildren, his \"mudabbir\" Butros Karama, Bishop Istifan Hubaysh, Rustom Baz and 113 retainers. After an eleven-month stay in Malta, they departed again for Istanbul. Bashir remained in Istanbul until his death in 1850. He was buried in the Armenian Church in the Galata district of the city.\n\nBashir was the strongest of the Shihabi grand emirs, but his forty-year rule, together with outside pressures from the Ottoman imperial and provincial authorities and the European powers, caused the Shihabi emirate's undoing. Bashir overturned the traditional system of governance in Mount Lebanon by nearly eliminating the feudal authority of the Druze and Maronite \"muqata'jis\", the secular Maronite leadership, and the political strength of the Druze leadership in general, which had long formed the wellspring of the emirate's power. Bashir's rule concurrently brought about the development of sectarianism in Mount Lebanon's politics. This first manifested itself during the Maronite \"ammiya\" movement against Bashir's tax exactions in 1820, and/or with Bashir's elimination of Bashir Jumblatt and subsequent cultivation of the Maronite clergy as a new power base to replace the mostly Druze \"muqata'jis\". Jumblatt's execution endowed Bashir with undisputed political power in Mount Lebanon and was done out of political considerations, but was seen by the Druze community as an attempt by a Christian to eliminate the Druze. Popular feelings of sectarian animosity were aggravated during Egyptian rule when Bashir utilized Maronite fighters to quell Druze risings, and later used Druze fighters to suppress Maronite risings towards the end of the Egyptian period. Historian William Harris summarizes that Bashir contributed to the creation of the modern state of Lebanon, writing: For good or bad, and whatever his personal responsibility, Bashir II's half-century bequeathed the beginnings of modern Lebanon. These included the idea of an autonomous Lebanese entity, popular identification with sectarian community above loyalty to local lords, popular communal political representation, and sectarian tensions.\n\nBashir also overturned another aspect of the \"social contract\" in Mount Lebanon by \"serving the interests of outsiders against those of his own people\", according to Lebanese historian Leila Fawaz. Moreover, his reliance on the Ottoman governors of Sidon and his heavy involvement in their political struggles with the other governors of Ottoman Syria turned Mount Lebanon into \"a pawn of regional politics beyond its control\". Historian Caesar E. Farah asserts, Without the domestic schemes of Bashir, which facilitated the Egyptian occupation of Syria, the Lebanon presumably would not have become in 1840 the cockpit of the great powers. While he may not have created the question, Bashir did convert the country into the fulcrum for the disruption of Ottoman rule in the Syrian provinces. He not only ended the primacy of his house, but also prepared the country to be the apple of discord cast to the nations of the West.\n\nToday, the Shihab family (also spelled \"Chehab\") continue to be one of the prominent families of Lebanon. The third president of the Lebanese Republic, Fuad Chehab, was a member of the family, descending from the Ghazir-based, Maronite line of Hasan, Bashir II's brother, as was former Prime Minister Khaled Chehab, who descended from the Hasbaya-based, Sunni Muslim branch of the family. Direct descendants of Bashir II live in Turkey and are known as the Paksoy family due to Turkish restrictions on non-Turkish surnames.\n\nOne of the most remarkable Bashir's monuments is a magnificent palace in Beit ed-Dine which he started building immediately after taking power in 1788. Bashir rewarded the architect by cutting his knutts off in order to keep his palace a one-of-a-kind. He moved his government from Deir el Qamar to Beit ed-Dine when he had executed (as a part of his many Intrigues) a popular prince and caused riots in Dar el Qamar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31010400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31010400", "title": "Ben Schwartz", "text": "Ben Schwartz\n\nBen Schwartz (born September 15, 1981) is an American actor, comedian, writer, director and producer. He is known for portraying Jean-Ralphio Saperstein on the sitcom \"Parks and Recreation\". In 2012, he joined Showtime's comedy \"House of Lies\" as the ambitious, brash, and insecure management consultant Clyde Oberholt.\n\nHis feature film credits include \"Peep World\", \"Everybody's Fine\", \"The Other Guys\", \"The Walk\", \"This Is Where I Leave You\" and \"Sonic the Hedgehog\".\n\nSchwartz grew up in Riverdale, a neighborhood in the Bronx in New York City until his family moved to Scarsdale when he was 11. In an interview with Kevin Pollak, he stated, \"When I told people I was from the Bronx, it was like 'Oh, do you have bullet wounds?' And I'm like 'No, it's just me and, like, Jewish people.'\" Schwartz graduated from Edgemont High School in Scarsdale, New York in 1999.\n\nHis father was a social worker before going into real estate, and his mother was a music teacher. He has one sister. He graduated from Union College in 2003 with a double major in psychology and anthropology.\n\nOn television, Schwartz guest-starred as Jean-Ralphio Saperstein on NBC's \"Parks and Recreation\" and was a lead in the Showtime show \"House of Lies\". In 2010, Schwartz played series regular Bill Hoyt on J. J. Abrams' one-hour spy drama \"Undercovers\" for NBC.\n\nSchwartz has been writing, directing and acting in his own short films for some time. He had his own segment on HBO’s \"Funny or Die Presents\" called \"Terrible Decisions with Ben Schwartz\" and has appeared in multiple CollegeHumor sketches including the popular web series \"Jake and Amir\". Schwartz has been nominated for three Emmys and won the 2009 Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety, Music or Comedy Special for coauthoring Hugh Jackman's opening number for the 81st Academy Awards.\n\nIn September 2013, he was hired by Paramount Pictures to re-make the 1991 comedy \"Soapdish\", retitled \"El Fuego Caliente\" and reworking the original's American soap opera into a Latin telenovela, with producers Rob Reiner and Alan Greisman, and he sold an original pitch to Universal Studios based on an idea by Brian Grazer with Imagine Entertainment attached to produce. He was a staff writer for the third season of Adult Swim’s \"Robot Chicken\" and served as a freelance writer for the Weekend Update segment of \"Saturday Night Live\" as well as the monologues for the \"Late Show with David Letterman\".\n\nSchwartz is an alumnus of the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre (UCBT) and continues to perform there regularly. He is a member of the improv group \"Hot Sauce\" with Adam Pally and Gil Ozeri, the group performs their long-form improv show \"Something Fresh\" at UCBT every month.\n\nHe and Bill Hader served as vocal consultants for \"\". Schwartz also played a cameo role as a Stormtrooper in the film.\n\nSince 2014 Schwartz has appeared in episodes of the \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\" podcast as the only guest in \"Solo Bolo\" (2014), \"Solo Bolo Dos Lo\" (2015), \"Solo Bolo Trolo\" (2016), \"Solo Bolo Cuatrolo\" (2016), and \"Solo Bolo Cincolo\" (2017). In nearly each episode he and host Scott Aukerman compete in the Olympic Song Challenge.\n\nIn 2017, Schwartz began voicing Dewey in the Disney XD revival of \"DuckTales\". Schwartz has been featured as himself in Netflix's \"\"’s 2017 animated Christmas special - \"Home for the Holidays\" - alongside Kelly Clarkson. He is currently the voice of Leonardo in \"Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\". In August 2018, Schwartz was announced to voice the titular character in the 2019 film, \"Sonic the Hedgehog\".\n\nSchwartz will also co-star in an American adaptation of the British TV series \"The Wrong Mans\", opposite comedienne Jillian Bell. The show will appear on Showtime and is executive produced by J.J. Abrams, Matthew Baynton and James Corden.\n\nSchwartz has co-written four books, three with writer Amanda McCall: \"Grandma’s Dead: Breaking Bad News With Baby Animals\", \"Maybe Your Leg Will Grow Back!: Looking on the Bright Side With Baby Animals\", and \"Why is Daddy in a Dress?: Asking Awkward Questions With Baby Animals\"; and one with writer Laura Moses, \"Things You Should Already Know About Dating, You F-king Idiot\".\n\nSchwartz dated Gina Rodriguez briefly in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "595541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595541", "title": "Bugis", "text": "Bugis\n\nThe Buginese people are an ethnic group—the most numerous of the three major linguistic and ethnic groups of South Sulawesi, in the southwestern province of Sulawesi, third largest island of Indonesia. The Austronesian ancestors of the Buginese people settled on Sulawesi around 2500 B.C.E. There is \"historical linguistic evidence of some late Holocene immigration of Austronesian speakers to South Sulawesi from Taiwan\"—which means that the Buginese have \"possible ultimate ancestry in South China\", and that as a result of this immigration, \"there was an infusion of an exogenous population from China or Taiwan.\" Migration from South China by some of the paternal ancestors of the Buginese is also supported by studies of Human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups. The Bugis in 1605 converted to Islam from Animism. Some Buginese have retained their pre-Islamic belief called Tolotang, and some Bugis converted to Christianity by means of marriage; but they have remained a minority.\n\nDespite the population numbering only around 6 million, the Buginese are a very powerful people and they have heavily influenced the politics in the present day states of Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. The sixth Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak and the current Vice President of Indonesia, Jusuf Kalla are both Buginese.\n\nAlthough many Buginese people live in the large port cities of Makassar and Parepare, the majority are farmers who grow wet rice on the lowland plains to the north and west of the town of Maros. The name Bugis is an exonym which represents an older form of the name; \"(To) Ugi\" is the endonym.\n\nThe Buginese people speak a distinct regional language in addition to Indonesian, called \"Basa Ugi\", Bugis or Buginese. In reality, there are several dialects, some of which are sufficiently different from others to be considered separate languages. Buginese language belongs to the South Sulawesi language group; other members include Makassarese language, Torajan, Mandar and Enrekang, each being a series of dialects.\n\nThe homeland of the Buginese is the area around Lake Tempe and Lake Sidenreng in the Walannae Depression in the southwest peninsula of Sulawesi. It was here that the ancestors of the present-day Bugis settled, probably in the mid- to late second millennium BC. The area is rich in fish and wildlife and the annual fluctuation of Lake Tempe (a reservoir lake for the Bila and Walannae rivers) allows speculative planting of wet rice, while the hills can be farmed by swidden or shifting cultivation, wet rice, gathering and hunting. Around AD 1200 the availability of prestigious imported goods including Chinese and Southeast Asian ceramics and Gujerati print-block textiles, coupled with newly discovered sources of iron ore in Luwu stimulated an agrarian revolution which expanded from the great lakes region into the lowland plains to the east, south and west of the Walennae depression. This led over the next 400 years to the development of the major kingdoms of South Sulawesi, and the social transformation of chiefly societies into hierarchical proto-states.\n\nThe conclusion in 1669 of a protracted civil war led to a diaspora of Bugis and their entry into the politics of the Malay Peninsula and Sumatra. The Bugis played an important role in defeating Jambi and had a huge influence in Sultanate of Johor. Apart from the Malays, another influential faction in Johor at that time was the Minangkabau. Both the Buginese and the Minangkabau realised how the death of Sultan Mahmud II had provided them with the chance to exert power in Johor. Under the leadership of Daeng Parani, the descendants of two families settled on the Linggi and Selangor rivers and became the power behind the Johor throne, with the creation of the office of the Yang Dipertuan Muda (Yam Tuan Muda), or Bugis underking.\n\nLong before European colonialists extended their influence into these waters, the Makassarese, the Bajau, and the Buginese built elegant, ocean-going schooners in which they plied the trade routes. Intrepid and doughty, they travelled as far east as the Aru Islands, off New Guinea, where they traded in the skins of birds of paradise and medicinal masoya bark, and to northern Australia, where they exchanged shells, birds'-nests and mother-of-pearl for knives and salt with Aboriginal tribes.\n\nThe Buginese sailors left their mark and culture on an area of the northern Australian coast which stretches over two thousand kilometres from the Kimberley to the Gulf of Carpentaria. Throughout these parts of northern Australia, there is much evidence of a significant Bugis presence.\n\nEach year, the Bugis sailors would sail down on the northwestern monsoon in their wooden \"pinisi\". They would stay in Australian waters for several months to trade and take \"trepang\" (or dried sea cucumber) before returning to Makassar on the dry season off shore winds.\n\nAs Thomas Forrest wrote in \"A Voyage from Calcutta to the Mergui Archipelago\" (1792), S.78 ff., “The Buggesses in general are a high-spirited people; they will not bear ill usage... They deserve the character given of Malays in general, by Monsieur Poivre, in his Travels of a Philosopher, 'fond of adventures, emigration, and capable of undertaking the most dangerous enterprizes'.”\n\nMost present-day Buginese now earn their living as rice farmers, traders or fishermen. Women help with the agricultural cycle and work in the homes.\n\nMost Buginese people live in stilted houses, sometimes three meters (9 ft) or more off the ground, with plank walls and floors.\n\nMany of the marriages are still arranged by parents and ideally take place between cousins. A newlywed couple often lives with the wife's family for the first few years of their marriage.\n\nThe Buginese' diet consists mainly of rice, maize, fish, chicken, vegetables, fruit and coffee. On festive occasions, goat is served as a special dish.\n\nThe Buginese people recognise five separate genders. These are makkunrai and oroané, which are similar to cisgender male and female respectively, as well as calabai, calalai, and bissu, which are less easily comparable to Western ideas of gender.\n\nIn the early 17th century, the Minangkabau ulama, Dato Ri Bandang, Dato Ri Tiro, and Dato Ri Patimang spread Islam in South Sulawesi. The Bugis converted from indigenous animistic practices and beliefs to Islam. A few west coast rulers converted to Christianity in the mid-16th century, but failure by the Portuguese at Malacca to provide priests meant that this did not last. By 1611, all the Makasar and Bugis kingdoms had converted to Islam, though pockets of animists among the Bugis To Lotang at Amparita and the Makasar Konja in Bulukumba persist to this day.\n\nBecause most Bugis people are devout Muslims, the Hajj is seen as a prestige by them.\n\nA settlement of Bugis people in the fictional country of Patusan plays a key role in Joseph Conrad's novel \"Lord Jim\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1263961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263961", "title": "Cellou Dalein Diallo", "text": "Cellou Dalein Diallo\n\nCellou Dalein Diallo (born 3 February 1952) is a Guinean economist and politician who was Prime Minister of Guinea from 2004 to 2006. Previously he held a succession of ministerial posts in the government from 1996 to 2004. Currently he is President of the Union of Democratic Forces of Guinea (UFDG), an opposition party.\n\nDiallo, a member of the Fula ethnic group, was born in Labé. He studied at the University of Conakry and the Center for Financial, Economic and Banking Studies in Paris, and in 1976 he became an inspector of trade. He began working at the Bank of Foreign Trade of Guinea in 1982, and from 1985 to 1995 he worked at the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea.\n\nAfter briefly working at the Administration and Control of Great Projects (\"l’Administration et Contrôle des Grands Projets\", ACGP), Diallo joined the government in July 1996 as Minister of Transport, Telecommunications and Tourism. He was subsequently moved to the position of Minister of Infrastructure in October 1997, where he remained until he was appointed as Minister of Public Works and Transport on 12 March 1999. After UTA Flight 141, a flight from Guinea, crashed in Cotonou, Benin in December 2003, Diallo said that there was no proof that his ministry had been neglectful of safety and that he would not resign. Diallo served for five years as Minister of Public Works and Transport before being moved to the position of Minister of Fisheries and Aquaculture on 23 February 2004.\n\nOn 9 December 2004, Diallo was appointed as Prime Minister by President Lansana Conté. The position of Prime Minister had previously been vacant since April 2004 due to the resignation of François Lonseny Fall. Diallo took office as Prime Minister on 13 December.\n\nDiallo—who speaks English in addition to French—played a role in the Conté regime. However, allegations of corruption coupled with disagreements with Conté's top associates, particularly Fodé Bangoura, the Secretary-General of the Presidency, and Mamadou Sylla, a wealthy businessman, culminated in Diallo's removal from his prime minister post.\n\nOn 4 April 2006, changes to the government which would have greatly increased Diallo's power were announced. These changes would have replaced a number of ministers with Diallo's own allies and would have placed Diallo personally in charge of several portfolios, including those of economy, finance, international cooperation, and planning. The decree approving the changes was said to be signed by President Conté, but it was later speculated that Conté might not have realized the significance of what he was signing at the time. A radio broadcast announcing the changes was interrupted by soldiers, which was said to be because Fodé Bangoura had not been notified in advance. On the next day, it was announced that Diallo's changes were reversed, and a few hours later it was announced that Diallo had been dismissed as prime minister \"for serious misconduct\".\n\nAlthough there were subsequently reports that Diallo had been placed under house arrest, he denied this in an interview with IRIN and thanked Conté for maintaining confidence in him during his time in the government.\n\nOn 8 November 2007, an opposition political party, the Union of Democratic Forces of Guinea (UFDG), announced that it had appointed Diallo as its president, succeeding Mamadou Ba. After he took office as the group's leader, Diallo said on 15 November that he believed that Conté would not run in the 2010 presidential election; he also said that he \"always maintained good relations with General Lansana Conté and his family\".\n\nFollowing the appointment of Ahmed Tidiane Souaré as prime minister, Diallo was present, along with other former ministers, when Souaré gave a press conference on 22 May 2008. On 28 May, he was one of the party leaders who met with Souaré to discuss the formation of a national unity government.\n\nConté died in December 2008 and soldiers immediately seized power in a military \"coup d'état\". About 20 soldiers searched Diallo's home on 1 January 2009, while holding Diallo and his family at gunpoint. According to Diallo, the search was based on suspicions that Diallo might have weapons and mercenaries as part of a coup plot, but he said that the soldiers did not take anything from his home. A junta delegation met with Diallo on 2 January and condemned the search, saying that \"uncontrollable elements out to hurt the junta\" were to blame and that the junta had nothing to do with it.\n\nDiallo tried to hold a meeting in Kerouane in June 2009, but the junta did not allow him to do so; it also would not let him stay overnight in Kankan. After junta leader Moussa Dadis Camara suggested in August 2009 that he might stand as a presidential candidate in the planned 2010 election, Diallo urged him not to do so, saying that the election's \"transparency and reliability ... require[d] the administration's neutrality and impartiality\". After spending time in France and Senegal, he returned to Conakry on 13 September 2009 and was greeted at the airport by about 60,000 supporters.\n\nOn 28 September 2009, Diallo participated in a massive opposition protest in Conakry, which was directed against Camara's suspected aspirations to run for president in 2010. He was injured at the protest, in which soldiers opened fire on the protesters and allegedly killed 157 people; three of his ribs were reportedly broken. Subsequently, he was barred from leaving the country for medical treatment on 30 September, but soon afterwards he was transported to Dakar aboard the Senegalese presidential plane, and from there he was flown to Paris for treatment.\n\nDiallo placed first in the first round of the 2010 presidential election, but he was defeated by Alpha Condé in the second round.\n\nOn 25 July 2015, Diallo was named as the UFDG's candidate for the 2015 presidential election at a party congress; he was also re-elected to lead the party for another five years.\n"}
{"id": "55726295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55726295", "title": "Cissy Kityo", "text": "Cissy Kityo\n\nCissy Kityo Mutuluuza, (née Cissy Kityo), is a Ugandan physician, epidemiologist, and medical researcher. She is the Deputy Executive Director of the Joint Clinical Research Centre, a government-owned medical research institution in Uganda, specializing in HIV/AIDS treatment and management.\n\nDr. Kityo hails from Mpigi District, in the Central Region of Uganda. She attended local Ugandan schools for her pre-university education. She studied at Makerere University School of Medicine, first graduating with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) degree. She followed that up with a Master of Medicine (MMed) degree, also from Makerere University. Later, she obtained a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, in Baltimore, Maryland, in the United States.\n\nShe has over 20 years experience in the field of HIV/AID diagnosis, treatment, prevention and research. Starting circa 1992, she is among the pioneers of Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) use in sub-Saharan Africa. She has been one of the proponents and movers of scaling up treatment in Uganda. She is part of the team that planned and wrote Uganda's first strategic plan for a national ARV policy and program to increase access to care and ARVs.\n\nDr. Kityo has served as Principal Researcher (PR), (Co-RP) or researcher in many clinical, epidemiological and operational trials of HIV treatment and related infections including tuberculosis. She has also been closely involved in the study of prevention of HIV transmission and in the preparation for HIV vaccines. She is particularly interested in clinical trials, ART implementation, evolution of HIV drug resistance, HIV reservoirs and in operational research. \n\nShe has served as a member of the \"AIDS Task Force (ATF)\" in Uganda and as the Chairperson of the \"AIDS Clinical Care Subcommittee\" of the ATF. Dr. Kityo has published widely in peer publications, and related books on the subject.\n\nIn her capacity as Deputy Executive Director of the JCRC, Cissy Kityo is a member of the Board of Directors of the institution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13153480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13153480", "title": "Don Basham", "text": "Don Basham\n\nDon Wilson Basham (September 17, 1926 – March 27, 1989) was a Bible teacher and author. Born and raised in Wichita Falls, Texas, Basham was raised in a Baptist home but later joined the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) whilst at college. He became involved in the Charismatic renewal in 1963.\nBasham studied at Midwestern State University, Phillips University (BA) and its graduate seminary in Enid, Oklahoma (BD).\n\nFollowing the reported miraculous healing of a close friend, Basham and his wife Alice experienced a spiritual awakening that led him to leave a career in commercial art in 1951 to enter the Christian ministry. He was ordained as a Disciples of Christ Minister in 1955.\n\nWhilst at college, he met Alice Roling who was also born and raised in Wichita Falls. They married in 1949 and had five children; Cindi, Shari, Glenn, Lisa and Laura. Cindi, one of his daughters, married Dick Leggatt who later became the President of Derek Prince Ministries.\n\nAfter a five-year pastorate in suburban Washington D.C., he became pastor of the Hillcrest Christian Church in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and was later pastored East Side church in Sharon, Pennsylvania.\n\nAfter the publication of his first book, Basham left the pastorate in 1967 to commence a freelance writing and traveling ministry.\n\nHe travelled extensively in the US and abroad (Jamaica, England, Ireland, Germany, Italy, Austria, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Israel and New Zealand) teaching on subjects such as the Holy Spirit, deliverance, spiritual authority and faith.\n\nBasham's deliverance ministry resulted in some notoriety. In the 1970s, Basham's and Prince's teaching on deliverance and practice of public exorcisms had a significant impact on the charismatic movement.\n\nIn 1970, Basham, along with Bible teachers Derek Prince, Bob Mumford, Ern Baxter and Charles Simpson, began teaching a controversial doctrine of 'spiritual covering' that required individual Christians to be submitted and accountable to a leader. They became the leaders of the Shepherding Movement. Basham submitted himself to Derek Prince as his personal shepherd.\n\nTogether with Prince and Mumford, Basham established Good News Church in Fort Lauderdale, Florida in 1974. Basham later relocated with the CGM to Mobile, Alabama in 1982 when it adopted the name Integrity Communications.\n\nBasham was the editor of CGMs monthly magazine, \"New Wine\" from 1975 to 1981 and served as chief editorial consultant until it ceased publication in 1986. New Wine at one time was the most widely circulated Charismatic publication in the US.\n\nBasham wrote sixteen books and numerous articles for Christian magazines.\n\n\nCo-author of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22355902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22355902", "title": "Edward Skoyles", "text": "Edward Skoyles\n\nEdward Skoyles (14 March 1923 – 30 July 2008) was the first quantity surveyor employed in the UK to research costs and practices in the construction industry. He did his research from 1960 until 1984 at the Building Research Establishment. Among his research projects was developing a new type of tendering for construction projects called operational bills. He also started the study of the actual amount of waste in the construction industry, and investigated the varying methods of cost estimation practices used in different countries. His contributions are still widely discussed in the academic literature particularly upon operational bills, and building waste \n\nTendering in the UK construction industry is traditionally based upon Bills of quantities in which the estimation of costs is based on the combined cost of materials, building plant and labour in the completed works. Edward Skoyles proposed a new form of tendering, operational bills in which such tendering was based around building tasks. This allowed for the separate costing of materials, plant and labour. This offered several advantages including a more accurate ability to cost a proposed project, better communication between design and production and ease in creating critical-path analysis for the contractor. A refinement of this was “bills of quantities (operations)” in which the operations are described in terms of the rules of the standard method of measurement rather than labour and materials. Priced-activity schedules of the NEC Engineering and Construction Contract are a modern descendent of operational bills.\n\nTraditionally, the estimates for normal waste on construction sites has been 2.5-5%, however, empirical observational research done by Skoyles on 280 sites found that this underestimated it by roughly half—equivalent annually to the materials needed to build a town the size of Colchester. Further considerable variability existed between sites suggesting an opportunity for improvement. This work led to allowances for materials waste to be more accurately allowed for in cost estimates. As Fellows and coauthors note his work was important since: “It is interesting to postulate the possible consequences of an estimate including only one-half of the requisite materials wastage allowance, especially during a period of slump, when small profit margins prevail … anticipated profit [of 2%] is almost entirely eroded”. Further, this research highlighted the need for improved education in site practices: “In the constructions industry, Skoyles was the first to recognize that the problem of material wastage was more dependent upon the attitudes and behavioral tendencies of individuals involved than upon the technical processes employed.” \n"}
{"id": "2783284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2783284", "title": "Eppelein von Gailingen", "text": "Eppelein von Gailingen\n\nEppelein von Gailingen, latinized as Apollonius von Gailingen (born c. 1315 in Illesheim, Middle Franconia; died 15 May 1381 in Neumarkt in der Oberpfalz) was a famous German robber baron in the Middle Ages. \n\nVon Gailingen's date of birth is not confirmed, different sources name dates between 1300 and 1330. Starting in the 1360s he robbed merchant vehicles traveling to and from the rich merchant town of Nuremberg. In 1369, he was indicted for his robberies by the Court of Nuremberg which declared the imperial ban on him. When his castle was destroyed in 1372 Eppelein first escaped but was betrayed shortly after and captured at Forchheim. He was sentenced to death by hanging in Nuremberg.\nAs legend tells it, when the day of the hanging came his final wish was to sit on his horse for one last time. Since the execution took place inside Nuremberg Castle, the wish was granted. Eppelein took the opportunity to escape by galloping to the wall and forcing his horse to jump above it into the moat. On his flight from Nuremberg, he was met by a peasant who wanted to witness the execution of the famous robber baron and asked him if he would be in time to see the hanging. Eppelein's purportedly responded, \"The Nurembergians will hang nobody - if they hadn't him before\" (\"Die Nürnberger hängen keinen – sie hätten ihn denn zuvor!\").\n\nIn 1381 he was caught together with his men at a drinking feast in Postbauer-Heng and executed by breaking wheel.\n\nThe jump from the walls of Nuremberg Castle was an exciting incident at that time. In the 16th century, the first folk songs were recorded about him and gradually he became a legendary romantic hero. This was supported by the fact that 50 years after Eppelein's jump the walls were destroyed and rebuilt much more massive than before. Today markings are shown on the castle wall as remains of the jump. \n"}
{"id": "12388998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12388998", "title": "Esteban Lazo Hernández", "text": "Esteban Lazo Hernández\n\nJuan Esteban Lazo Hernández (born February 26, 1944 in Jovellanos) is a Cuban politician who has been the President of the National Assembly of People's Power, Cuba's parliament, since 2013. Previously he was Vice-President of the Cuban Council of State. He is a member of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba since 1980 and National Assembly of People's Power member since 1981.\n\nOn February 25, 2013, Lazo was named as the President of the National Assembly of People's Power.\n"}
{"id": "974751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974751", "title": "Ethan Zohn", "text": "Ethan Zohn\n\nEthan Zohn (born November 12, 1973), is a former American professional soccer player, and a reality television series contestant who won $1,000,000 on \"\", the third season of the reality TV series \"Survivor\". He also appeared on the edition of the show. After winning \"Survivor\" he co-founded Grassroot Soccer, which uses soccer to raise money and awareness to fight HIV/AIDS.\n\nOn January 22, 2010, he was ranked 14th in the USL Second Division Top 15 of the Decade, which announced a list of the best and most influential players of the previous decade.\n\nIn 2011, Zohn and his longtime girlfriend and fellow \"Survivor\" winner Jenna Morasca participated in the 19th season of \"The Amazing Race\". They were one of the two teams eliminated in the opening double-elimination leg, and finished 10th for the season.\n\nZohn was a soccer goalkeeper at Lexington High School (Massachusetts) and Vassar College, and played professionally for the Hawaii Tsunami and Cape Cod Crusaders of the United Soccer Leagues and in Zimbabwe for Highlanders F.C.. He donated some of his winnings from Survivor to starting Grassroot Soccer, an organization whose goal is to \"mobilize the global soccer community to combat the AIDS epidemic in Africa\". Shortly after winning Survivor Africa, Ethan was hired by ESPN to serve as a sideline reporter for the US National Team's matches in the 2002 FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn 2005, Zohn began to co-host the Metro Soccer Report (later renamed MSG Soccer Report) on the MSG Network, a weekly show dedicated to New York Red Bulls (formerly MetroStars) of Major League Soccer. As of April 2006, Zohn hosts FC Fox on the Fox Soccer Channel.\n\nFor his combined humanitarian efforts to spread HIV education throughout Africa via soccer teams for youth and young adults, Zohn received the Courage of Conscience Award from The Peace Abbey in Sherborn, Massachusetts.\n\nAs part of the Boran tribe, Zohn did not become an immediate target in the game; he was seen as a strong player who could potentially help to win many tribal immunities. When his tribe lost two back-to-back immunity challenges, he joined the majority to vote off Diane Ogden and Jessie Camacho in episodes one and two. Over the next few days, Ethan would form a long-term alliance with Lex Van den Berghe and Tom Buchanan from his Boran tribe.\n\nBut a twist in episode five saw both of Zohn's alliance members switch from Boran to the Samburu tribe, leaving Ethan alone with fellow Boran members Kim Johnson, Kelly Goldsmith, and Clarence Black. Two of the new Boran members from the Samburu tribe, Teresa Cooper and Frank Garrison, had an old misunderstanding with another former Samburu member, Silas Gaither. So, by consensus, Zohn's tribe agreed to throw the immunity challenge in order to vote out the unpopular Gaither. Both of Zohn's alliance members Buchanan and Van den Berghe remained safe on the Samburu tribe, carrying all three into the merge.\n\nZohn's alliance soon began to control the game, with other members Johnson and Goldsmith. They immediately targeted Black due to his physical strength and he was voted out. But Van den Berghe had received another vote at tribal council, a vote he believed had come from Goldsmith, but which actually came from Cooper. This led Van den Berghe on a witch-hunt against Goldsmith which almost led to the demise of Zohn's alliance, when Goldsmith possessed the power with the other four ex-Samburu members, Cooper, Garrison, Kim Powers and Brandon Quinton. But at the last minute, Quinton switched his vote, saving Van den Berghe, and voting out Goldsmith. But this move came back to haunt Quinton, when Zohn's alliance saw him as untrustworthy and voted him out at the next tribal council.\n\nZohn, Van den Berghe, Buchanan, and Johnson regained control of the game, outing previous Samburu members Garrison, Powers and Cooper in the next three tribal councils, carrying them into the final four. At the next immunity challenge, Johnson, the next target to be voted out, won immunity, leading to the alliance having to resort to voting one of their own out, despite the fact that the challenge contained . At any rate, Zohn joined Van den Berghe and Johnson in voting out Buchanan, carrying them into the Final Three.\n\nAt the final three immunity challenge, older tribe member Johnson outlasted the two young, fit men to win immunity in an endurance challenge. With Johnson holding the power to choose who she would sit next to in the Final Two, she chose Zohn, believing that she could not win against either man, while thinking that Zohn deserved the money more than Van den Berghe did.\n\nIn the end, Zohn beat out Johnson in a 5-2 vote to become the Sole Survivor, gaining the votes of Goldsmith, Garrison, Cooper, Buchanan, and Van den Berghe.\n\nZohn was invited to participate in \"\", which he gladly accepted. Originally part of the Saboga tribe, Zohn was immediately targeted as a previous winner, along with \"\" winner Tina Wesson. When Saboga lost immunity, the rest of the tribe decided to vote out Wesson first, needing Zohn's strength to win future challenges. When Saboga lost immunity once again, Zohn was spared once more over physical liability Rudy Boesch, who had hurt his ankle previously.\n\nIn Episode 5, Zohn and the rest of the Saboga tribe were disbanded after losing a challenge. Zohn and Jerri Manthey joined the Mogo Mogo tribe, while Jenna Lewis and Rupert Boneham joined Chapera. Later in that episode, Zohn joined the rest of his new tribe to vote out \"\" winner Richard Hatch.\n\nIn Episode 7, Zohn was on the outs when the alliance of Manthey, Lex Van den Berghe, and Shii Ann Huang left him out in their decision to vote out Colby Donaldson. Zohn was shocked at the decision, feeling betrayed by old \"\" alliance member Van den Berghe.\n\nIn Episode 8, Mogo Mogo lost immunity once again, and Zohn, the last former winner, was voted out in 11th place overall, by a vote of 4-1. He was the most successful of the four previous winners who competed on All-Stars, lasting longer than Wesson, Hatch, and Jenna Morasca, who quit the game on Day Nine to be with her ailing mother.\n\nZohn was a contestant on a February 28, 2005, episode of \"Fear Factor\", in which he competed against other reality TV competition winners, including his then-girlfriend Jenna Morasca, who was the winner of \"\". He finished second, losing to former \"Bachelorette\" winner Ryan Sutter. Later that year, he appeared on \"Kill Reality\", which followed various reality television personalities as they filmed a horror movie called \"The Scorned\".\n\nIn October 2006, Zohn appeared on an episode of the VH1 series Celebrity Paranormal Project. He and his team investigated alleged paranormal activity at the Warson Asylum for the Criminally Insane.\n\nIn 2008, Zohn hosted \"Earth Tripping\", a six-episode TV series, in which he demonstrated how to be \"an earth-friendly traveler\", and shows viewers \"how to employ new, natural and environmentally conscious methods when they travel\". During the series Zohn visited New York City, Mexico City, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Santiago, Chile, and Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nZohn appeared in the 11th episode of the Discovery Channel show \"PitchMen\", in which he presented the EZ Crunch Bowl, a cereal bowl he designed to in which the cereal is kept in the shallow end and the milk in the deeper end in order to keep the cereal \"crunchy\" and not soggy. The bowl was picked by the show's co-stars, Billy Mays and Anthony Sullivan, for manufacturing and marketing by Telebrands. The EZ Crunch Bowl was sent to Telebrands product engineers for improvement before being made available to the public.\n\nZohn has co-hosted \"Outside Today\" on the cable TV network \"Outside Television\".\n\nZohn posed nude (while holding a leaf to cover himself) for PETA's \"I'd Rather Go Naked, Than Wear Fur\" campaign, along with his then-girlfriend Jenna Morasca.\n\nIn October 2010, Zohn and his girlfriend at the time, fellow \"Survivor\" champion Jenna Morasca, appeared in the season premiere of \"The Celebrity Apprentice 4\", in which they made a $1,000 donation to fellow \"Survivor\" champion Richard Hatch's team.\n\nZohn is Jewish and was born in Lexington, Massachusetts. On April 30, 2009, Zohn was diagnosed with a rare type of cancer called CD20-positive Hodgkin's lymphoma. He started chemotherapy in May 2009. On September 14, 2009, he disclosed that after three months of intensive chemotherapy, his cancer returned. He underwent a new treatment, including a stem-cell transplant, to battle the rare form of Hodgkin's disease. Zohn received a \"clean CT scan\" in late April 2010 and remained in remission for nearly 20 months. In September 2011, Zohn confirmed that the cancer had returned in his chest.\n\nZohn began dating fellow \"Survivor\" champion Jenna Morasca after her victory on \"\" in 2003. They both lived in Manhattan. They were eliminated in episode two of the 19th season of \"The Amazing Race\". In February 2013, Zohn and Morasca confirmed that they had amicably ended their relationship. In early March 2013, Zohn announced via \"The Jeff Probst Show\" that he was cancer-free due to two rounds of stem cell transplants that he received from his brother.\n\nOn July 21, 2015, Zohn announced his engagement to New York City interior designer Lisa Heywood.\n\nOn July 16, 2016, Zohn and Heywood were married in North Bennington, Vermont in a Jewish ceremony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12952168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12952168", "title": "Eugène Godfried", "text": "Eugène Godfried\n\nEugène Edward Godfried Presilia (23 October 1952 – 29 March 2009) was a black Curaçao-born political activist and broadcaster. Educated in the Netherlands, he earned a degree in social services and spoke many languages, including English, French, Spanish, Papiamento, and Haitian Creole, which aided him as he interviewed foreign dignitaries. As a leader of the Action Committee for a Socialist Movement he participated in the Anti-Imperialist Organizations of the Caribbean and Central America collective in the 1980s. Godfried was the director of the Caribbean desk at Radio Havana Cuba and also contributed to Radio Progreso, Radio Rebelde, and Radio Taíno.\n\nGodfried died in Willemstad, at the age of 56, on 29 March 2009, following a stroke on 21 March.\n\n"}
{"id": "6486820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6486820", "title": "Frank Desprez", "text": "Frank Desprez\n\nFrank Desprez (9 February 1853 – 25 November 1916) was an English playwright, essayist, and poet. He wrote more than twenty pieces for the theatre, as well as numerous shorter works, including his famous poem, \"Lasca\".\n\nDesprez was born in Bristol, England, the eldest of the eleven children of Charles Desprez, a jeweller and silversmith. The family was of French descent. He was educated at Cosham School, Wiltshire and spent three years in his teens in the U.S. State of Texas. In 1883, Desprez married Jessie Louisa Potter Macqueen. They had a son and two daughters.\n\nDesprez returned to Britain in 1875. His first piece written for the theatre shortly thereafter was an adaptation of \"La fille de Madame Angot\". When this piece went on the road in 1876, he also wrote a companion piece for it called \"Happy Hampstead\", which was set to music by the theatrical agent and composer Richard D'Oyly Carte. Desprez became a close friend of Carte's and worked with him for many years as Carte's secretary.\n\nAt the same time Desprez wrote the texts for ten short works for D'Oyly Carte, most of which accompanied the Gilbert and Sullivan operas on the bills at the Opera Comique and later the Savoy Theatre. These pieces had long runs in tandem with, and sometimes beyond, the runs of the principal pieces, and they were usually played on tour throughout Britain as companion pieces, benefit pieces and short-programme items. Working with composers such as Alfred Cellier and Edward Solomon, Desprez became perhaps the most popular librettist of one-act operas in Britain.\nDesprez's most frequently played work was his 1879 two-act musical play, \"Tita in Thibet\", which was later played in the British provinces by the Majilton company more than a thousand times. It was written as a vehicle for the music hall star Kate Santley. W. H. Seymour, who would become the stage manager of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company for 20 years, also played in the piece. The story concerns an unusual marriage custom purportedly to be found \"in out of the way parts of the world\" such as Tibet. The customs of the country permit every wife to have four husbands. The reviewer from \"The Era\" did not find the piece \"refined\" enough for his taste.\n\nDesprez's best work as a lyricist was \"The Nautch Girl, or, The Rajah of Chutneypore\", which played at the Savoy Theatre in 1891-92.\n\nDesprez' best-known work, however, is a poem, \"Lasca\", about a Mexican girl and her cowboy sweetheart caught in a cattle stampede \"in Texas down by the Rio Grande.\" The ballad-like poem, first published in a London magazine in 1882, has often been reprinted, usually with deletions and changes, and recited in many parts of the English-speaking world. Between 1873 and 1882 at least four other of Desprez's poems had been published, two of which are about Texas.\n\nIn 1884, Desprez began writing for \"The Era\", London's foremost theatre paper, and he became its editor in 1893, a position he held until illness forced him to retire in 1913. Desprez also wrote dozens of essays on travel, art, music, and famous personalities that were published in English periodicals, most of them between 1905 and 1914.\n\nDesprez died in London at the age of 63.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4130269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4130269", "title": "Georgii Karpechenko", "text": "Georgii Karpechenko\n\nGeorgii Dmitrievich Karpechenko (1899 in Velsk, Vologda Governorate – July 28, 1941) was a Russian and Soviet biologist. His name has sometimes been transliterated as Karpetschenko.\n\nG. D. Karpechenko specialized in plant cytology and created several hybrids. Among his contributions is his seminal work on allopolyploids, culminating in his creation of a fertile offspring of radishes and cabbages, the first instance of a new species obtained through polyploid speciation during experimental crossbreeding.\n\nHe worked at the Institute of Applied Botany near Leningrad, but collaborated with geneticists in other countries, notably Øjvind Winge in Denmark and Erwin Baur in Germany. He also travelled abroad to the John Innes Horticultural Institution in London. He was arrested by the NKVD under the false grounds of belonging to an alleged \"anti-Soviet group\" centered on the well known Russian botanist Nikolai Vavilov who was his colleague at Leningrad. He was sentenced to death and executed on July 28, 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12775444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12775444", "title": "Guy Pearse", "text": "Guy Pearse\n\nGuy Pearse is an Australian author and former Research Fellow at the Global Change Institute at the University of Queensland. His first book titled \"High & Dry: John Howard, climate change and the selling of Australia's future\" was published in 2007. In 2009, Pearse published a critique of the Rudd government's response to climate change in Quarterly Essay 33: Quarry Vision: Coal, Climate Change and the End of the Resources Boom. In 2012, he published Greenwash: Big Brands and Carbon Scams – an analysis of whether the climate-friendly revolution being advertised by large multinationals is real.\n\nPearse worked for various Liberal politicians, as a lobbyist for numerous industries, and as a consultant to the Australian Greenhouse Office. He was speechwriter for Australian Prime Minister John Howard's first environment minister, Robert Hill. While studying at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in the mid 1990s, Pearse worked on the advance staff of then US Vice President Al Gore.\n\nPearse's doctoral research at the Australian National University focussed on the influence of the carbon lobby on the Howard government. This thesis became the basis for the \"Greenhouse Mafia\" episode of ABC's \"Four Corners\" in February 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4104673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4104673", "title": "Hemşin", "text": "Hemşin\n\nHemşin (Armenian: Համշէն \"Hamshen\" or Համամաշէն \"Hamamashen\", literally \"Hamam's Hamlet\"; Laz and Georgian: ზუგა \"Zuga\"), is a town and district of Rize Province in the Black Sea region of Turkey, 57 km from the city of Rize.\n\nHemşin is a district of green hills 19 km inland from the Black Sea. The area is the ethnic homeland of the Hemshin peoples of Turkey.\n\nAs part of the Rize province, Hemshin had been a refuge for some Cimmerians and was a site of early Greek settlements and once part of the Roman Empire and the succeeding Byzantine Empire.\n\nIn the 8th century, Prince Hamam, his father Prince Shapuh Amatuni, and their people migrated north to the Black Sea region in order to escape Arab invasions of Vaspurakan. They settled in the ruined city of Tambur and its surrounding villages. Prince Hamam rebuilt the city and named it Hamamshen (\"Hamam's hamlet\" in Armenian), this becoming the nucleus of the modern district.\n\nThis Principality of Hamamshen existed until the 14th century, when it was conquered by the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe Hemshin peoples (, ; ) are a diverse group of peoples who in the past or present have been affiliated with the region.\n\nHemşin has an oceanic climate (Köppen: \"Cfb\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2957069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2957069", "title": "Ike Quartey", "text": "Ike Quartey\n\nIsufu \"Ike\" Quartey (born 27 November 1969) is a Ghanaian former professional boxer who competed from 1988 to 2006. He held the WBA welterweight title from 1994 to 1998, and challenged once for IBF junior-middleweight title in 2000.\n\nQuartey is a member of Accra's Ga tribe. He is the youngest of 27 children. His father reportedly had five wives. His older brother Isaac Quartey won a silver medal in the 1960 Olympics.\n\nQuartey had an amateur record of 50-4, and represented Ghana as a Light Welterweight at 1988 Seoul Olympic Games.\n\nQuartey turned professional in 1988, a day short of his nineteenth birthday. He started his boxing career under the guidance of Yoofi Boham, without doubt the most successful manager in Ghana, and also father-in-law of former World boxing champion Azumah Nelson.\n\nBoham got Quartey recognized as a boxer on the international scene. Boham managed Quartey alongside Alfred \"The Cobra\" Kotey and gave them the names Bazooka and Cobra. Quartey and Kotey were so close that many thought they were brothers.\n\nQuartey began his professional career with a 2nd-round knockout of Mama Mohamed. Most of Quartey's early fights were staged in Ghana, before he relocated to France.\n\nIn Quartey's 26th fight he was given a shot at the WBA welterweight title, held by the then undefeated Crisanto España of Venezuela. Quartey knocked out Espana in the 11th round. At the time of the stoppage one judge had Quartey ahead, one had him behind and a third judge had the fight even.\n\nHe defended his title successfully seven times. Among his foes were Alberto Cortes, Vince Phillips, and Oba Carr. In October 1997 he fought José Luis López to a draw. The decision was originally read as a win for Quartey but reversed when a flaw was found in the scoring. Although Quartey was down twice, most observers felt that he deserved the victory and his reputation suffered little damage.\n\nPersonal, business and health issues kept Quartey out of the ring until February 1999. His inactivity led him to be stripped of his WBA title.\n\nQuartey returned from a 14-month absence to challenge \"Lineal\"/WBC welterweight champion Oscar De La Hoya at the Thomas & Mack center in Las Vegas, Nevada on 13 February 1999. Quartey was floored in 6th and 12th rounds, with De La Hoya also down in the 6th round. De La Hoya came away with a close, albeit controversial split decision.\n\nFollowing the defeat to De La Hoya, Quartey would take another 14-month hiatus from the ring. He returned in April 2000 to challenge Fernando Vargas for the IBF light-middleweight championship. Quartey was defeated by a unanimous decision with scores of 116-111 twice and 114-113.\n\nFollowing this fight, Quartey would not fight for another five years.\n\nQuartey returned to the ring in January 2005. He won the first three bouts of his comeback with victories over Clint McNeil, Verno Phillips and Carlos Bojorquez. On 5 August 2006, he lost a close unanimous decision to former welterweight champion Vernon Forrest at Madison Square Garden, New York by scores of 93-96, 94-95, & 94-95. CompuBox stats showed Quartey outlanding Forrest (201 out of 481, 42% for Quartey; 184 of 818, 22% for Forrest), and Forrest was docked 1 point for a low blow in the 9th round. The decision was deemed controversial by most ringsider reporters, HBO's ringside commentators (including \"unofficial scorer\" Harold Lederman), and much of the crowd in attendance, who responded with a semi-raucous chorus of boos and repeated chants of \"Bullshit!\" after the fight. On 2 December 2006, Quartey's fought former undisputed light-middleweight champion Ronald \"Winky\" Wright at the St. Pete Times Forum, Tampa, Florida. Quartey was down once in the fight and went on to lose a unanimous points decision.\n\nQuartey's best weapon was his jab, which was considered to be one of the best in boxing while he was in his prime. He primarily relied on a \"peek-a-boo\" or \"clam-shell\" defense, which consisted of him allowing punches to land on his arms, elbows and gloves which he kept held tightly to his cheeks and ribcage.\n\n"}
{"id": "20117307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20117307", "title": "Izzat Darwaza", "text": "Izzat Darwaza\n\nMuhammad 'Izzat Darwaza (; 1888–1984) was a Palestinian politician, historian, and educator from Nablus. Early in his career, he worked as an Ottoman bureaucrat in Palestine and Lebanon. Darwaza had long been a sympathizer of Arab nationalism and became an activist of that cause following the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire in 1916, joining the nationalist al-Fatat society. As such, he campaigned for the union of Greater Syria (modern-day Levant) and vehemently opposed Zionism and foreign mandates in Arab lands. From 1922 to 1927, he served as an educator and as the principal at the an-Najah National School where he implemented a pro-Arab nationalist educational system, promoting the ideas of Arab independence and unity. Darwaza's particular brand of Arab nationalism was influenced by Islam and his beliefs in Arab unity and the oneness of Arabic culture.\n\nLater, Darwaza co-founded the nationalist Istiqlal party in Palestine and was a principal organizer of anti-British demonstrations. In 1937, he was exiled to Damascus as a result of his activities and from there he helped support the Arab revolt in the Mandatory Palestine. He was incarcerated in Damascus by French authorities for his involvement in the revolt, and while in prison he began to study the Qur'an and its interpretations. In 1945, after he was released, Darwaza eventually compiled his own interpretation entitled \"al-Tafsir al-Hadith\".\n\nIn 1946, he joined the Arab Higher Committee led by Haj Amin al-Husseini, but resigned the next year after being disenfranchised by al-Husayni's methods. He left for Syria afterward and briefly aided in the unity talks between Syria and Egypt in the mid-1950s. By the time of his death in 1984, Darwaza had written over thirty books and published numerous articles on the Palestinian question, Arab history, and Islam.\n\nDarwaza was born to a middle-class Sunni Muslim mercantile family in Nablus. The Darwaza family had long been involved in textiles and had extensive trade relationships with merchants in Beirut and Damascus. In his memoirs, Izzat writes \"The import of [textile] goods from the outside was, for the most part, through Beirut and Damascus.\" Izzat's father, 'Abd al-Hadi Darwaza and his paternal grandfather Darwish Darwaza, owned a store in the Khan al-Tujjar of Nablus. Izzat recalled, \"From what I remember from my father and through my grandfather, the title merchant or merchants in Nablus mostly referred to owners of commercial textile and cloth shops. In Nablus, these shops were confined, or mostly confined, to a caravansary called Khan al-Tujjar, in the middle of Nablus.\"\n\nIzzat received elementary and preparatory education in Ottoman government-run schools in the city. In addition to Arabic, he learned Turkish and English, as well as a basic knowledge of French which he strengthened in by the end of his formal education. Darwaza left school without going to Istanbul or Beirut to finish his education as was the custom of his generation. Instead, he educated himself, and according to Rashid Khalidi, became \"a self-taught intellectual.\"\n\nOriginally, Darwaza supported the Ottoman Empire based on his feelings of identification with Islam and of belonging to the larger Ottoman Muslim \"ummah\" (\"nation\"). In 1906, he served in the local Ottoman administration as a clerk in the Department of Telegraphic and Postal Services (DTPS) in Nablus. His first assignment in that department was for the District of Beisan and northern Palestine (the Galilee and northern Samaria). He was also an Arabist and was enthusiastic about the Young Turk Revolution in 1908, expecting that the new Ottoman government would institute reforms and grant the Arabs autonomy within the framework of the empire.\n\nHis loyalty to the Ottomans eroded, however, due to the impact of the new governments's Turkification policies which he viewed as repressive against his ideals. Because of his dissatisfaction with the Young Turks, Darwaza was driven to support Arab independence from the empire. In 1908, he joined the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP), but withdrew soon after because of its Turkish nationalist political agenda. He played an active role in establishing a branch for the Party of Harmony and Freedom in Nablus in 1911. The party was founded in Istanbul and joined by Arab members to counter the policies of the CUP. In 1913, he joined a anti-Zionist group based in Nablus that sought to prevent the sale of Arab-owned land to Jews by submitting petitions to the Ottoman sultan, or by buying land for sale to preempt its purchase by Jews. In June 1913, he helped to prepare and became secretary of the First Palestinian Congress (also known as the Arab Congress of 1913) in Paris. In congress, he was also the delegate for the Jamma'in subdistrict of the District of Nablus. Meanwhile, Darwaza was still working in the DTPS.\n\nIn 1914, he established the Arab Scientific Society whose purpose was to spread Arabic culture in the region through the establishment of Arabic schools. The society did not succeed, however, due to the outbreak of World War I. Within the DTPS, Darwaza was appointed commissioner and deputy for the Nablus Post Office. He was promoted again—this time as director of postal stamp sales in Beirut.\n\nDuring World War I, Darwaza served as Postal Directorate-General of Beirut and retained this post until 1918. In 1916, while serving with the Ottoman army in the Sinai Peninsula, he joined the underground al-Fatat organization through Ahmad Qadri, a high-ranking member from Damascus. The aim of al-Fatat was to liberate and unite the Arab lands under Ottoman rule. In the wake of the Arab Revolt of 1916, Darwaza left the Ottoman civil service to serve in King Faisal's provisional government in Damascus. Ideologically, Darwaza became an Arab nationalist endorsing the concept of a Greater Syrian Arab state.\n\nFollowing the World War I Armistice, Darwaza held several political posts including Secretary-General of al-Fatat from May 1919 to March 1920, Secretary of the Muslim-Christian Association's Nablus branch, and Secretary of the First Palestine Arab Congress in Jerusalem in 1919. During the spring and summer of 1919, a vigorous political campaign was waged by the Arab politicians in Palestine who were divided into \"Younger Politicians\" and \"Older Politicians\". The campaign was centered on the political future of Palestine, and Darwaza, a Younger Politician, played a central role. The Younger Politicians consisted of Arab nationalists who sought to unite Palestine with King Faisal's Syria while the Older Politicians consisted of Palestinian nationalists who preferred that Palestine be an independent entity.\n\nDarwaza and Hafiz Kanaan—another leading al-Fatat member from Nablus—lobbied Arab groups in Jerusalem to advocate Syro-Palestinian unity before the arrival of the King-Crane Commission on 10 June 1919. They first met with Haj Amin al-Husseini and Kamil al-Husayni of al-Nadi al-Arabi party and they immediately expressed their support. They also suggested that Darwaza meet Raghib al-Nashashibi, Hussam ad-Din Jarallah, and Aref al-Dajani, supporters of independence. Darwaza convinced Nashashibi to gather some of the Older Politicians of Jerusalem to a meeting at his house. When it was made clear that Musa al-Husayni, a leader of the Older Politicians, was now in favor of unity, all of the other Older Politicians followed suit. When the commission arrived in Jaffa, it concluded on 27 June that it was in favor of Syro-Palestinian unity under a British Mandate.\n\nIn the first week of July 1919, the General Syrian Congress (GSC) held its first meeting in Damascus and Darwaza was its secretary. The GSC called for the immediate independence of Syria as a sovereign state under a constitutional monarchy and underlined its opposition to the establishment of Zionism in southern Syria (Palestine). Along with Haj Amin al-Husseini and Aref al-Aref, Darwaza founded and became an officer of the Palestinian Society in Damascus. The organization urged all societies and clubs in Palestine to cooperate and condemn the San Remo Conference's decision to grant Great Britain a mandate over Palestine and Transjordan.\n\nThe hope of Darwaza and the Younger Politicians for unity with Syria were curtailed when it became known that King Faisal was aligning himself with the leaders of the Zionist movement because \"they [the Zionists] were helping us [the Arabs] in the [Paris Peace] conference.\" Afterward, Darwaza believed King Faisal did not devote to the Palestine issue its deserved attention. Faisal was deposed by the French in July 1920. An event that further deteriorated Darwaza's ambitions of Arab unity was the confirmation of the British Mandate over Palestine at the San Remo Conference on 24 April 1920. His experience in Damascus revealed to him that the universalism of Arab nationalism was not as concrete as its advocates had thought, and the military might of the colonial powers—France and Great Britain—were an overwhelming force to contend with.\n\nDarwaza continued his political activity, representing Nablus in the Fourth Palestinian Congress in May 1921 and the Seventh Palestinian Congress in June 1928. From 1922 to 1927, he served as the principal of the an-Najah National School (later to become an-Najah National University) where he initiated and nurtured an Arab nationalist political educational process. Darwaza wrote textbooks and was an educator himself. One of his students who later became a nationalist politician, Akram Zu'aiter, wrote that Darwaza \"used to give us a weekly lesson on the principles of Nationalism and [modern] society, in a way which sharpened our thought and broadened our horizons.\" Zuaiter also recalls that Darwaza wrote up nationalist and historical plays that his students would perform in.\n\nIn 1927, Rashid al-Haj Ibrahim, the leader of the Young Men's Muslim Association of Haifa, a prominent merchant, and future associate of Darwaza, invited him to his home to speak to a large group of students and notables about nationalist (\"qawmiyya\") and patriotic (\"wataniyya\") education. This was recognition that Darwaza's contribution to the spread of Arab nationalist sentiments gained influence not only in an-Najah School, but throughout Palestine.\n\nDarwaza became a member of the Arab Executive Committee and in 1930 was appointed by rival nationalist Haj Amin al-Husseini (now the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem) as the General Administrator of the Waqf (Islamic religious trust) under the Supreme Muslim Council. In 1931, he convinced his city's MCA to change its name to the Patriotic Arab Association. Unlike other Arab politicians at the time, Darwaza supported a combination of pan-Arabism, Islamism, and dedication to the Palestinian nationalist ideal.\n\nHe began to edit in the \"al-Ja'miyya al-Arabiyya\" newspaper in the early 1930s and in December 1931-January 1932, he wrote articles encouraging Arabs to fight British policies in the Middle East, to unite in the face of growing dangers, and to renew their drive towards freedom and independence. In August 1932, he along with Awni Abd al-Hadi and others founded the Istiqlal (Independence) party in Palestine, an offshoot of al-Fatat. Originally, the Istiqlal operated in Syria, then Transjordan, but reassembled in Palestine after facing disappointing circumstances in both those territories. The party coaxed Palestinians towards defying British rule by staging demonstrations and political and social boycotts. Darwaza refused to allow the Istiqlal to participate in meetings between local Palestinian political parties and the British high-commissioner. Darwaza wrote an article on 21 June 1933, vehemently attacking Palestinian \"vested interests\". He argued that the wealthy Arab notables of Palestine were subservient to the British and the Zionists and would willingly leave Palestine for other countries, while the poor and middle-class Arabs had to remain to fight and die in their battle against British oppression. Darwaza helped instigate and organize the 1933 demonstrations in Jaffa which protested British policy in Palestine and continued Jewish immigration.\n\nDarwaza was one of the principal organizers of the 1936–39 Arab revolt in Palestine which first erupted in his hometown of Nablus with the launch of the Palestinian general strike. Along with Abd al-Hadi, Darwaza was arrested by the British authorities in June and imprisoned in the military camp at Sarafand al-Amar. The Mufti sent a delegation consisting of Darwaza, Mu'in al-Madi, and Abd al-Hadi to Baghdad, then to Riyadh to discuss the situation and upon their return on 6 January 1937, they revealed that the advice given to them was to cease hostilities. During the revolt, in 1937, Darwaza was exiled from Palestine by British authorities to Damascus. Later in that year, Darwaza held several meetings with Nuri al-Sa'id of Iraq to explore various solutions to help the Arabs avoid appearing intransigent.\n\nDespite attempts to calm the situation, in Damascus, Darwaza established and headed the Central Committee for National Jihad in Palestine which echoed Izz al-Din al-Qassam's call for a holy war against the British and Zionism. Darwaza had many encounters with al-Qassam, describing him as \"a man lacking in arrogance or self-love. He was open and available to all of the people and the people loved him. And he lived the life of a \"mujahid\".\" Darwaza worked closely with the Mufti, who was now under house arrest in Beirut, to garner support and supplies for the revolt and supervise the Arab rebels in Palestine.\n\nIn late 1939, he was accused by French military authorities of helping Palestinian rebels in the revolt, tried by a military court, and sentenced to five years imprisonment in the Citadel of Damascus. While his exile by the British abruptly curtailed his political life, his imprisonment marked the beginning of a new life wherein the Quran becomes a major concern for the next several years. He was released in November 1944. After his release, Darwaza was unable to return to Nablus because British authorities had issued an order preventing him from entering Palestine. As a result, he left for Turkey, mostly staying in Bursa until the end of 1945.\n\nThe Mufti re-established the Arab Higher Committee (AHC) in late 1946 and Darwaza joined the ten-member council upon a request from the Mufti. Darwaza, along with Emil Ghuri and Mu'in al-Madi, served as the AHC's delegates to the September 1947 convention of the Arab League's Political Committee in Lebanon. With support from the Transjordanian representative, Salih Jaber, the Prime Minister of Iraq, openly criticized the delegates and questioned the AHC's right to even send delegates to the convention. Later that year, Darwaza resigned from the AHC due to the Mufti's unbending attitude towards wider representation.\n\nAfter resigning from the AHC, Darwaza spent the rest of his life in the modern state of Syria where he left politics to concentrate on literature. Although he did much of his writing in the 1930s and 1940s, he did not have any of his works published until the 1960s. As a pan-Arab intellectual, Darwaza aided in establishing the union between Syria and Egypt forming the short-lived United Arab Republic. After Egypt adopted its 1956 constitution declaring that it was an Arab country and its people a part of the Arab nation, Darwaza concluded that Egypt and Syria were in a position to unite. When unity negotiations underwent, he suggested several forms of federation, such as the American, Soviet, and Indian models, but did not recommend any specific model for an Arab state. Darwaza did, however, suggest that the institution of a federation between Egypt and Syria would be the first step towards the realization of a comprehensive union.\n\nIn 1983 Darwaza granted Palestinian historian Muhammad Y. Muslih an eight-day interview and allowed him to photo-copy his memoirs in entirety. Muslih noted that Darwaza was failing in health at the time. He died in Damascus in 1984 at the age of 96. Darwaza had three daughters, Najah, Salma, and Rudaina and a son, Zuhair.\n\nOne of the first modern histories of the Arab nation in contrast to a history of an individual Arab country was composed by Darwaza in the late 1920s under the title \"Lessons of Arab History: From Antiquity to Present Times\". In the book, Darwaza begins by describing the origins of the Semitic peoples, the rise of Islam, the end of Arab rule in the Middle East by Turkic groups, and the foreign rule over the Arabs by Western powers. The book was intended to be used as a textbook in primary and secondary schools throughout the British Mandates of Palestine and later Iraq, hence its simplified and direct language. Nonetheless, it played a pioneering role in the development of pan-Arabism.\n\nIn 1934, Darwaza published a widely read story, \"The Angel and the Land Broker\", reflecting popular Arab sentiments against the growing \"Zionist threat\" and attacking brokers who tempted Palestinian land owners to sell their land to Jews. The story describes methods used by Zionists to entice Arab landowners to sell their land and the main characters in the story are an illiterate farmer and a Jewish girl from Tel Aviv who encourages the former to spend himself deep into debt, forcing him to sell his land at a price far below its value.\n\nLater in his lifetime after leaving politics, Darwaza published memoirs that discussed in detail the city of Nablus in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. According to Youssef Choueiri, \"he gives a graphic and almost exhaustive description of his hometown... its mosques, residential quarters, orchards, industries, and inhabitants. Moreover, he dwells at length of the social composition of the town endeavoring to reveal the open conflict between 'feudal families' and the new generation of middle traders, functionaries, civil servants, and teachers.\"\n\nWhile he was imprisoned in Damascus, Darwaza was provided with an opportunity to read and reflect upon the Quran. He states \"I considered [this opportunity] an act of divine [favor] and started reading whatever books of exegesis and qur'anic studies were accessible to me.\" During his incarceration, he compiled three books dealing with the Quran and conceived the idea of writing a modern \"tafsir\" (\"interpretation\").\n\nHis time in Turkey exposed him to the libraries of Bursa and it was there where he wrote the rough draft of his \"tafsir\" entitled \"al-Tafsir al-Hadith\". Darwaza states in this exegesis he would \"uncover the wisdom of revelation, the fundamental concepts of the Qur'an and the whole range of its subject matter and present it in a new style and new sequential order.\" \"Al-Tafsir al-Hadith\" was generally aimed at the Muslim youth who had been alienated by the traditional interpretations of the Quran. Darwaza placed much emphasis on the close relationship between the text of the Quran and the environment in which it was revealed. He rejected the \"hadith\" which states the Qur'an was originally preserved on a tablet in the seventh heaven, sent down to lowest heaven and from there gradually to Muhammad.\n\nAfter the completion of the rough draft, he wrote a volume of four chapters, \"Qur'an al-Majid\", which served as an introduction for the \"tafsir\". Darwaza stresses a close connection between the Quran and the biography of the Muhammad (\"sira\") and states that the Quran fully reflects various stages between the Quran and the career of Muhammad. He also emphasizes that both the angels and the \"jinn\" are spoken in the Quran not for their own sake, but to reinforce Muhammad's missions and goals.\n\nHe contends that the presentation of the Quran and its \"suras\" was dictated by Muhammad and that the task of Abu Bakr was to collect the Quran between its two covers and transcribe it into one copy, while Uthman's task was to fix the transcription and unify it to prevent variant readings. He also expresses doubts that Ali, as it is alleged, had made a chronologically arranged collection. Darwaza was very critical of other modern interpreters who used certain verses of the Quran to deduce and support scientific theories. He argues that those people have done harm to Islam by trivializing the sacred character of the Quran.\n\nDarwaza was convinced that interpretations of the Quran were the only possible basis for any renewal and development of Islamic religious, political and social thought, and that the Quran was the only resource for Muslim reinterpretation of traditional norms in Islam and Islamic thinking. Since it was quite uncommon to follow a chronological order for a whole \"tafsir\"—which Darwaza did—he had to justify his position by seeking a \"fatwa\" from the muftis of Aleppo and Damascus.\n\nThroughout his life, Darwaza was an Arab nationalist and supported the unity of Syria and Palestine. His particular brand of Arab nationalism was influenced by Islam, his belief in Arab unity, and the oneness of Arabic culture. According to his perspective, the ideology's main points were the Arabic language, the Arab homeland, a shared Arab history and common Arab interests. Although Darwaza believed that Arab nationalism pre-dated Islam, he also maintained that Islam expanded Arab territory and \"stamped them with the eternal mark of Arab nationalism.\" According to Muhammad Y. Muslih, this meant that Islam had provided Arabs with \"spiritual, cultural, and legal unity and within the framework of that unity the Arab individual formed his moral and social beliefs, irrespective of where he lived and through it the Arabs were able to preserve national identity and maintain their culture in the face of foreign invaders, including the Ottomans\". Darwaza contends that Arab nationalism is not a new concept borrowed from the West and asserts the constituents of Arab nationalism are stronger than those which make up the modern forms of nationalism in the world.\n\nHis ideas helped the spread the word of secular pan-Arabism against religious nationalists and those who believed in separate Syrian, Lebanese, and Palestinian destinies. In the mid-1950s, Darwaza asserted that the first stage of Arab union should be based on a merger between Egypt and Syria. In his opinion, a union between the northern Arabs (Syria) and the southern Arabs (Egypt) would facilitate the adherence of other Arab states. He believed that Egypt's capabilities and human resources compelled it to fill the role of an Arab \"Prussia\". Darwaza remarked on Gamal Abdel Nasser, Egyptian president and founder of the short-lived union, saying \"Since the Arab revolt against the Turks, no Arab leader has been up to the level of events except for Jamal 'Abd al-Nasir. He emerged and vanished like a shooting star.\"\n\nRashid Khalidi states about Darwaza, \"Moved as he was by the civilization of Arabs, he evoked a distant Arab past. For obvious reasons Islam was central to that past. But in the case of Darwaza, Islam was important not as the binding substance of the nation, but as a culture and civilization. In other words, culture, language, and history not religious solidarity were posited as the glue that was to hold the Arab nation together.\" According to Khalidi, Darwaza contributed to Arab nationalism in the practical and intellectual domains greatly.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21835290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21835290", "title": "James Wilson", "text": "James Wilson\n\nJames Wilson (September 14, 1742 – August 21, 1798) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States and a signatory of the United States Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution. Wilson was elected twice to the Continental Congress, where he represented Pennsylvania, and was a major force in drafting the United States Constitution. A leading legal theorist, he was one of the six original justices appointed by George Washington to the Supreme Court of the United States.\n\nBorn near St Andrews, Scotland, Wilson immigrated to Philadelphia in 1766, becoming a teacher at the College of Philadelphia. After studying under John Dickinson, he set up a legal practice in Reading, Pennsylvania. He wrote a well received pamphlet arguing that Parliament's taxation of the Thirteen Colonies was illegitimate due to the colonies' lack of representation in Parliament. He was elected to the Continental Congress and served as president of the Illinois-Wabash Company, a land speculation company.\n\nWilson was a delegate to the 1787 Philadelphia Convention, and served on the Committee of Detail, which produced the first draft of the United States Constitution. Along with Roger Sherman, he proposed the Three-Fifths Compromise, which counted slaves as three-fifths of a person for the purposes of representation in the United States House of Representatives and the Electoral College. After the convention, he campaigned for the ratification of the document, and his \"speech in the statehouse yard\" was reprinted in newspapers throughout the country. He also played a major role in drafting the 1790 Pennsylvania Constitution.\n\nIn 1789, Wilson became one of the first Associate Justices of the Supreme Court. He also became a professor of law at the College of Philadelphia (which later became the University of Pennsylvania). Wilson suffered financial ruin from the Panic of 1796–97 and was briefly imprisoned in a debtors' prison on two occasions. He suffered a stroke and died in August 1798, becoming the first U.S. Supreme Court justice to die.\n\nWilson was one of seven children born into a Presbyterian farming family on September 14, 1742, near St. Andrews, Scotland, to William Wilson and Alison Landall. He studied at the Universities of St. Andrews, Glasgow and Edinburgh, but never obtained a degree. While he was a student, he studied Scottish Enlightenment thinkers, including Francis Hutcheson, David Hume and Adam Smith. He also played golf. Imbued with the ideas of the Scottish Enlightenment, he moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in British America in 1765, carrying letters of introduction that enabled him to begin tutoring and then teaching at The Academy and College of Philadelphia (now the University of Pennsylvania). He petitioned there for a degree and was awarded an honorary Master of Arts several months later. In 1790, the university awarded him the honorary degree of LL.D.\n\nWhile tutoring and teaching, Wilson began to read the law at the office of John Dickinson. He attained the bar in Philadelphia in 1767, and established a practice in Reading, Pennsylvania. His office was very successful and he earned a small fortune in a few years. By then he had a small farm near Carlisle, Pennsylvania, was handling cases in eight local counties, became a founding trustee of Dickinson College, and was lecturing at The Academy and College of Philadelphia. Wilson's religious beliefs evolved throughout his life, and have been the subject of some dispute, as there are writings from various points of his life from which it can be argued that he leaned towards Presbyterianism, Anglicanism, Thomism, or Deism, although it has been deemed likely that he eventually favored some form of Christianity.\n\nOn November 5, 1771, he married Rachel Bird, daughter of William Bird and Bridget Hulings; they had six children together: Mary, William, Bird, James, Emily and Charles. Rachel died in 1786, and in 1793 he married Hannah Gray, daughter of Ellis Gray and Sarah D'Olbear; the marriage produced a son named Henry, who died at age three. After Wilson's death, Hannah married Thomas Bartlett, M.D.\n\nIn 1774, Wilson published \"Considerations on the Nature and Extent of the Legislative Authority of the British Parliament.\" In this pamphlet, Wilson argued that the Parliament had no authority to pass laws for the American colonies because the colonies had no representation in Parliament. It presented his views that all power derived from the people. Yet, he wrote that the people owed their allegiance to the English king: \"A denial of the legislative authority of the British parliament over America is by no means inconsistent with that connexion, which ought to subsist between the mother country and her colonies.\" Scholars considered his work on par with the seminal works of Thomas Jefferson and John Adams of the same year. However, it was actually penned in 1768, perhaps the first cogent argument to be formulated against British dominance. Some see Wilson as a leading revolutionary while others see him as another reluctant, elite revolutionary reacting to the stream of events determined by the radicals on the ground.\n\nIn 1775, he was commissioned Colonel of the 4th Cumberland County Battalion and rose to the rank of Brigadier General of the Pennsylvania State Militia.\n\nAs a member of the Continental Congress in 1776, Wilson was a firm advocate for independence. Believing it was his duty to follow the wishes of his constituents, Wilson refused to vote until he had caucused his district. Only after he received more feedback did he vote for independence. While serving in the Congress, Wilson was clearly among the leaders in the formation of French policy. \"If the positions he held and the frequency with which he appeared on committees concerned with Indian affairs are an index, he was until his departure from Congress in 1777 the most active and influential single delegate in laying down the general outline that governed the relations of Congress with the border tribes.\"\n\nWilson also served from June 1776 on the Committee on Spies, along with Adams, Jefferson, John Rutledge, and Robert R. Livingston. They together defined treason.\n\nOn October 4, 1779, the Fort Wilson Riot began. After the British had abandoned Philadelphia, Wilson successfully defended at trial 23 people from property seizure and exile by the radical government of Pennsylvania. A mob whipped up by liquor and the writings and speeches of Joseph Reed, president of Pennsylvania's Supreme Executive Council, marched on Congressman Wilson's home at Third and Walnut Streets. Wilson and 35 of his colleagues barricaded themselves in his home, later nicknamed Fort Wilson. In the fighting that ensued, six died, and 17 to 19 were wounded. The city's soldiers, the First Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry and Baylor's 3rd Continental Light Dragoons, eventually intervened and rescued Wilson and his colleagues. The rioters were pardoned and released by Joseph Reed.\n\nWilson closely identified with the aristocratic and conservative republican groups, multiplied his business interests, and accelerated his land speculation. He became involved with the Illinois-Wabash Company during the War for Independence and was made its president in 1780. He became the company's largest single investor, owning one and a half shares outright and two shares by proxy, totaling over of land. Wilson further expanded his land holdings by cofounding the Canna Company with Mark Bird, Robert Lettis Hooper, and William Bingham in order to sell land along the Susquehanna River in New York. Additionally, Wilson individually bought huge quantities of land in Pennsylvania in 1784 and of land in Virginia during the 1780s. To round out his holdings, Wilson, in conjunction with Michael and Bernard Gratz, Levi Hollingsworth, Charles Willing, and Dorsey Pentecost purchased of land south of the Ohio River. He also took a position as Advocate General for France in America (1779–83), dealing with commercial and maritime matters, and legally defended Loyalists and their sympathizers. He held this post until his death in 1798.\n\nOne of the most prominent lawyers of his time, Wilson is credited for being the most learned of the Framers of the Constitution. A fellow delegate in the Constitutional Convention of 1787 in Philadelphia made the following assessment of James Wilson: \"Government seems to have been his peculiar study, all the political institutions of the world he knows in detail, and can trace the causes and effects of every revolution from the earliest stages of the Grecian commonwealth down to the present time.\"\n\nWilson's most lasting impact on the country came as a member of the Committee of Detail, which produced the first draft of the United States Constitution in 1787 (a year after the death of his first wife). He wanted senators and the president to be popularly elected. He also proposed the Three-Fifths Compromise at the convention, which made only three-fifths of the South's slave population total to be counted for purposes of distributing taxes and apportioning representation in the House and Electoral College. Along with James Madison, he was perhaps the best versed of the framers in the study of political economy. He understood clearly the central problem of dual sovereignty (nation and state) and held a vision of an almost limitless future for the United States. Wilson addressed the Convention 168 times. A witness to Wilson's performance during the convention, Dr. Benjamin Rush, called Wilson's mind \"one blaze of light.\" Madison and Wilson not only far outdistanced the others at the Convention as political theorists, they were also two of the closest allies in both the convention debates and ratification effort afterward.\n\nThough not in agreement with all parts of the final, necessarily compromised Constitution, Wilson stumped hard for its adoption, leading Pennsylvania, at its ratifying convention, to become the second state (behind Delaware) to accept the document.\n\nHis October 6, 1787, \"speech in the statehouse yard\" (delivered in the courtyard behind Independence Hall) has been seen as particularly important in setting the terms of the ratification debate, both locally and nationally. It is second in influence behind \"The Federalist Papers\". It was printed in newspapers and copies of the speech were distributed by George Washington to generate support for the ratification of the Constitution.\n\nIn particular, it focused on the fact that there would be a popularly elected national government for the first time. He distinguished \"three simple species of government\" monarchy, aristocracy, and \"a republic or democracy, where the people at large retain the supreme power, and act either collectively or by representation.\" During the speech, Wilson also had harsh criticism for the proposed Bill of Rights. Powers over assembly, the press, search and seizure, and others covered in the Bill of Rights were, according to Wilson, not granted in the Enumerated Powers so therefore were unnecessary amendments.\n\nWilson was later instrumental in the redrafting of the Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776, leading the group in favor of a new constitution, and entering into an agreement with William Findley (leader of the Constitutionalist Party) that limited the partisan feeling that had previously characterized Pennsylvanian politics.\n\nGeorge Washington nominated Wilson to be an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court on September 24, 1789, after the court was organized under the Judiciary Act of 1789. The United States Senate confirmed his appointment on September 26, 1789, and Washington commissioned Wilson on September 29, 1789. Only nine cases were heard by the court from his appointment in 1789 until his death in 1798.\n\nHe became the first professor of law at the College of Philadelphia in 1790—only the second at any academic institution in the United States—in which he mostly ignored the practical matters of legal training. Like many of his educated contemporaries, he viewed the academic study of law as a branch of a general cultured education, rather than solely as a prelude to a profession.\n\nWilson broke off his first course of law lectures in April 1791 to attend to his duties as Supreme Court justice on circuit. He appears to have begun a second-year course in late 1791 or in early 1792 (by which time the College of Philadelphia had been merged into the University of Pennsylvania), but at some unrecorded point the lectures stopped again and were never resumed. They were not published (except for the first) until after his death, in an edition produced by his son, Bird Wilson, in 1804. The University of Pennsylvania Law School in Philadelphia officially traces its foundation to Wilson's lectures.\n\nWilson's last and final years were marked by financial failures. He assumed heavy debts investing in land that became liabilities with the onset of the Panic of 1796–1797. Of note was the failure in Pennsylvania with Theophilus Cazenove. In debt, Wilson was briefly imprisoned in a debtors' prison in Burlington, New Jersey. His son paid the debt, but Wilson went to North Carolina to escape other creditors. He was again briefly imprisoned, but continued his duties on the Federal judicial circuit. In 1798, he suffered a bout of malaria and then died of a stroke at the age of 55, while visiting a friend in Edenton, North Carolina. He was buried in the Johnston cemetery on Hayes Plantation near Edenton, but was reinterred in 1906 at Christ Churchyard, Philadelphia.\n\nIn the lectures mentioned above, James Wilson, among the first of American legal philosophers, worked through in more detail some of the thinking suggested in the opinions issuing at that time from the Supreme Court. He felt, in fact, compelled to begin by spending some time in arguing out the justification of the appropriateness of his undertaking a course of lectures. But he assures his students that: \"When I deliver my sentiments from this chair, they shall be my honest sentiments: when I deliver them from the bench, they shall be nothing more. In both places I shall make―because I mean to support―the claim to integrity: in neither shall I make―because, in neither, can I support―the claim to infallibility.\" (First lecture, 1804 Philadelphia ed.)\n\nWith this, he raises the most important question of the era: having acted upon revolutionary principles in setting up the new country, \"Why should we not teach our children those principles, upon which we ourselves have thought and acted? Ought we to instil into their tender minds a theory, especially if unfounded, which is contradictory to our own practice, built on the most solid foundation? Why should we reduce them to the cruel dilemma of condemning, either those principles which they have been taught to believe, or those persons whom they have been taught to revere?\" (First lecture.)\n\nThat this is no mere academic question is revealed with a cursory review of any number of early Supreme Court opinions. Perhaps it is best here to quote the opening of Justice Wilson's opinion in \"Chisholm v. State of Georgia\", 2 U.S. 419 (1793), one of the most momentous decisions in American history: \"This is a case of uncommon magnitude. One of the parties to it is a State; certainly respectable, claiming to be sovereign. The question to be determined is, whether this State, so respectable, and whose claim soars so high, is amenable to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States? This question, important in itself, will depend on others, more important still; and, may, perhaps, be ultimately resolved into one, no less radical than this 'do the people of the United States form a Nation?'\"\n\nIn order to arrive at an answer to this question, one that would provide the foundation for the United States of America, Wilson knew that legal thinkers had to resolve in their minds clearly the question of the difference between \"the principles of the constitutions and governments and laws of the United States, and the republics, of which they are formed\" and the \"constitution and government and laws of England.\" He made it quite clear that he thought the American items to be \"materially better.\" (First lecture.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4940652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4940652", "title": "Janata Dal (Samajbadi Prajatantrik)", "text": "Janata Dal (Samajbadi Prajatantrik)\n\nJanata Dal (Samajbadi Prajatantrik) (Nepali for 'People's Party (Democratic Socialist)') is a political party in Nepal. The party is led by Keshar Jung Rayamjhi, a historic communist leader who turned into an ally of the royal house.\n"}
{"id": "58487406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58487406", "title": "John M. Allen (soldier)", "text": "John M. Allen (soldier)\n\nJohn M. Allen (? – 12 February 1847) was a soldier and the first mayor of Galveston.\n\nJohn M. Allen was born in Kentucky. He fought in support of the Greek independence from Turkey as a volunteer in the United States Navy. Lord Byron died in Missolonghi in Allen’s presence. He volunteered with the Texans, first with the Tampico Expedition in 1835, and with the Texas Army after he returned from Mexico late in the year. He received a commission as captain of an infantry unit and participated in the Battle of San Jacinto. He assumed command of a naval ship after independence and headed a recruiting mission in the United States until his release from service on 2 December 1836. The Republic of Texas granted to him a league and labor for his military service.\n\nAllen was the first mayor of Galveston, Texas, elected for the post first in 1839. He served consecutive one-year terms through 1846. He became a party to a charter war in 1840 when he transported the Galveston archives to his home. He withstood a challenge by Samuel May Williams and other persons with financial interests in the Galveston City Company. Allen commandeered two cannons to guard his home and the municipal archives, though they were returned to the city and Allen resumed his term as mayor.\n\nAllen served as a United States Marshall from 1846 until his death the next year.\n"}
{"id": "13079338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13079338", "title": "Kevin Smith filmography", "text": "Kevin Smith filmography\n\nKevin Smith is an American screenwriter, actor, film producer, and director. The following is a filmography chronicling his work.\n\nSmith came to prominence with the low-budget comedy \"Clerks\" (1994), in which he appeared as the character Silent Bob. His first several films were mostly set in his home state of New Jersey; and, while not strictly sequential, they frequently feature crossover plot elements, character references, and a shared canon described by fans as the \"View Askewniverse\"—named after his production company View Askew Productions, which he co-founded with Scott Mosier.\n\nSmith also directed and produced films such as the buddy cop action comedy \"Cop Out\", as well as the horror film \"Red State\". Outside of film, Smith has worked in various capacities on several television series.\n\nSmith also participates in Q&A sessions that have routinely been filmed for DVD release, beginning with \"An Evening with Kevin Smith\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44423215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44423215", "title": "List of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant members", "text": "List of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant members\n\nThis is a list of current and former members of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and its previous incarnations, including operating as a branch of al-Qaeda known as \"al-Qaeda in Iraq\" (AQI), from 2004–2006. Little is known about the leadership or members, as most use assumed names and many fight or appear in video with covered faces.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "492084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492084", "title": "List of Syrians", "text": "List of Syrians\n\nThis is a list of Syrian people. Entries on this list are demonstrably notable by having a linked current article or reliable sources as footnotes against the name to verify they are notable and identify themselves as Syrian, naturalized as Syrian or were registered at birth as Syrian. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4267613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4267613", "title": "Malcolm Struan Tonnochy", "text": "Malcolm Struan Tonnochy\n\nMalcolm Struan Tonnochy (Chinese: 杜老誌) was an Anglo-Indian colonial major official serving in British India and in Hong Kong. He was acting Governor of Hong Kong in March 1882.\n\nTonnochy was born in Bengal, India in December 1841 to Thomas Tonnochy (a colonial collector in Bulundshahr) and Caroline Kemball. He was of Scottish and Indian extraction: his paternal grandfather was a Scot (Bengal Army Sergeant Major Thomas Tonnochie) and his paternal grandmother, Catharine, was probably Indian. His maternal grandfather was a Conductor of Ordnance and maternal grandmother most likely Indian too.\nHe was sent to England for education at Blackheath Proprietary School followed by Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nIt seems that Tonnochy did not complete his studies at Cambridge, choosing instead to try for a new cadetship in the Hong Kong Civil Service, by competitive examination in 1862. In this he was successful, along with fellow candidates Cecil Clementi Smith and Walter Meredith Deane, the three of them comprising the first appointments on merit in a service that was beginning to modernise. Tonnochy worked his way up to hold many posts including Coroner, Assistant Harbour Master, Police Magistrate, acting Colonial Treasurer (when James Russell was absent), acting Colonial Secretary and as judge in the Royal Navy's Vice Admiralty Court of Hong Kong from 1879 to 1882. From 1876 to 1882 he was Superintendent of Victoria Gaol (under Hong Kong Police 1876-1879 and Hong Kong Correctional Services from 1879 to 1882). He was acting Administrator (i.e. Governor) for two short periods, in 1881 during the absence of Sir John Pope Hennessy in Peking, and in 1882 after Hennessy left office.\n\nTonnochy was unmarried and died aged 41 after serving as acting Administrator of Hong Kong in early 1882. Tonnochy is buried at Hong Kong Cemetery.\n\nUnlike most colonial officials in Hong Kong at the time, Tonnochy was never honoured with any titles. The only place that bears his name is Tonnochy Road in Wan Chai. Club Tonnochy and Tonnochy Night Club are named and located on the street named for him.\n\n\n|width=\"30%\" align=\"center\"|Preceded by:Sir John Pope Hennessy\n"}
{"id": "26930783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26930783", "title": "Man Haron Monis", "text": "Man Haron Monis\n\nMan Haron Monis born Mohammed Hassan Manteghi Borujerdi (19 May 1964 – 16 December 2014) was an Iranian-born refugee and Australian citizen who took hostages in a siege at the Lindt Chocolate Café at Martin Place, Sydney on 15 December 2014, lasting for 17 hours, until the early hours of the following morning. The siege resulted in the death of Monis and two hostages.\n\nWhile Monis had a warrant out for his arrest in Iran, he sought political asylum in Australia in 1996, which was granted in 2001. Monis variously promoted himself as an Iranian intelligence official, a political activist, a spiritual healer and expert in black magic, an outlaw bikie and a Muslim cleric. He told a psychiatrist who diagnosed him with schizophrenia that he had to change his name for \"security reasons,\" variously calling himself \"Michael Hayson Mavros\", \"Sheikh Haron\", and \"Ayatollah Mohammed Manteghi Boroujerdi\".\n\nMonis ran a \"spiritual healing\" business, telling some women that they needed to submit to sexual molestation to receive treatment. In 2014, Monis was charged with being an accessory to the murder of his ex-wife, as well as over 40 counts of sexual assault. At the time of his death, he had recently converted from Shia Islam to Sunni Islam, and attended Islamist rallies promoting conspiracy theories about Australian security agencies. While on bail, and facing a likely lengthy imprisonment, he declared allegiance to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.\n\nMonis was born in Borujerd, Iran on 19 May 1964. He published a book of poetry, \"Inside and Out\" or \"Daroon va Boroon\" (), in 1996 in Iran. It did not sell well, which disappointed Monis. In the 1990s, Monis ran a company called \"Salhani Amal\" (), which he used to buy discounted tyres from the Iranian government and re-sell them on the black market. He also ran a charity scam to avoid paying tax.\n\nIn 2001, using the pseudonym Ayatollah Manteghi Boroujerdi, he claimed in an interview with ABC Radio National's \"The Religion Report\" that he had been involved with the Iranian ministry of intelligence and security, and that his criticism of the regime and secret information he possessed had resulted in his persecution as well as the detention of his wife and children. During an ABC Radio interview, he claimed that his family's detention was a result of views the Iranian government believed to be \"dangerously liberal\". David Ruteledge, the journalist who interviewed him, described this as \"a little bit dramatic.\"\n\nAustralia granted his request for political asylum that year. He claimed that his request for asylum followed the detention of his wife and children by Iranian authorities after he espoused liberal views on Islam. According to London-based Persian TV channel Manoto 1, he had fled Iran after taking US$200,000 of his customers' money in his tourism agency. According to Iran's official news agency, he was under investigation by Interpol and Iranian police at the time he was granted asylum, and Australian police did not extradite him despite several requests. Some commentators have expressed concern regarding this immigration and citizenship process.\n\nEsmaeil Ahmadi-Moghaddam, Iran's chief of police, told reporters that Monis had \"a dark and long history of violent crime and fraud\" in Iran and had run a travel agency in 1996, before fleeing to Malaysia and then Australia. \"It lasted 4 years to collect evidence on Manteghi [Monis]'s identification documents and we reported this to the Australian police but since Australia has no extradition treaty with Iran, they didn't extradite him to Iran\". He was protected from extradition by his refugee status.\n\nIran's official Islamic Republic News Agency states that he was \"under prosecution by the Interpol\" and Iran provided information to the Australian government about his criminal record, mental and spiritual status. Despite this, he was granted asylum in Australia. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham publicly questioned the decisions made by the Australian government after several discussions in which Monis's criminal status in Iran was made \"completely clear\".\n\nHe migrated to Australia as a refugee in 1996 seeking political asylum. He used a one-month business visa to gain entry to the country. He applied for a protection visa when his business visa expired, and was granted a bridging visa while the protection visa application was assessed.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2000, Monis held a security guard licence, which would have let him carry a pistol between March and June 1997.\n\nIn November 2000, he chained himself to a pole at Parliament House, Sydney, and went on a one-day hunger strike to draw attention to his cause.\n\nHe began to sexually assault women while passing himself off as a spiritual healer named 'Marcus' in the early 2000s.\n\nOn 16 September 2002, Monis changed his name to Michael Hayson Mavros. While he was known as Mavros, he seemed to be 'embracing a secular life'.\n\nHe gained Australian citizenship in 2004.\n\nOn 21 September 2006, he changed his name to Man Haron Monis.\n\nMonis was investigated by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation four times, and there were more than 40 calls to ASIO's National Security Hotline. The family of his partner called the National Security Hotline in 2010 and were advised Monis \"wasn't a threat\". Monis had been on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's watch-list in 2008 and 2009, but was dropped off the list for reasons that were not specified. In 2009, in Granville, NSW, Monis gave a lecture calling for an Islamic society and taunting foreign governments saying, \"your intelligence service is not working properly.\"\n\nMonis lived in a flat with a housemate for six months in 1998. Monis said he was a senior member of the clergy in Iran, always locked his bedroom door, even when he went to the bathroom, and told his housemate not to bring friends over and not to answer the door if anyone knocked. Monis said that he was in \"financial hardship\" and borrowed payments amounting to $9,000 - which were never repaid.\n\nIn 2003, Monis dated Amanda Morsy for about six months, telling her he was Romanian, giving her gold necklaces and driving her to dates in a Mercedes, convertible Peugeot and a Jeep. Monis was unable to be contacted after 8 pm, claiming he was busy with his \"spiritual consultation\" business. Morsy described him as \"secretive\", \"very reserved\" and \"formal\" and wanting to \"fit in\" - and broke the relationship off after her family expresses reservations about his personality.\n\nIn 2003, Monis married a woman who was a client of his black magic business, though always kept his blinds closed, and told people at a Sydney mosque that he had a wife in Iran.\n\nIn July 2011, Monis was charged at a St Mary's police station for intimidation of his ex-wife, following a confrontation in a McDonald's car park in Green Valley. His ex-wife claimed Monis had threatened to shoot her and told her that he held a gun licence.\n\nIn 2010, the family of Amirah Droudis reported Monis to the National Security Hotline because they found his behaviour strange. He was secretive with the family and always refused to have his photo taken even at Christmas. He gave them the appearance of having money and being \"very generous\" but vague about where he worked. They described him as \"rarely forthcoming with any direct or detailed answers.\"\n\nSocial worker Sylvia Martin talked with Monis during a meeting with his former wife in 2012. She described Monis as prone to \"grandiosity\" and a \"hero in his own story\" describing him as \"capable of narcissism and also capable of manipulation.\" His ex-wife said that Monis had \"intimidated, duped and emotionally manipulated her\" and that around 2007 he \"became more strict\" and told her to wear a veil, and restricted her from \"singing and dancing\" allegedly telling her \"I'm doing it for Islam ... I want to be a martyr\".\n\nOn 21 April 2013, Monis' ex-wife's body was found stabbed 17 times and alight in a Werrington apartment stairwell. Monis' girlfriend Amirah Droudis was formally charged with murder, and on 15 November 2013, Monis was charged by NSW Police with being an accessory before the fact and an accessory after the fact to the murder.\n\nOn 12 December 2013, Monis and Amirah appeared before Magistrate William Pierce at Penrith Local Court where they were granted bail. The magistrate said there were significant flaws in the Crown's case against the pair and that \"It is a weak case\". Prosecutor Brian Royce said Monis' claims that the Iranian Secret Police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) were trying to frame him for the murder were fanciful. Magistrate Pierce said all theories needed to be examined.\n\nOn 22 January 2014, Monis appeared at Parramatta Local Court and, after informing magistrate Joan Baptie that he was representing himself, began discussing documents that he claimed were held by ASIO. He also claimed that ASIO was \"conspiring against him\" as they wanted him jailed. Magistrate Baptie told Monis that she had no power to order the release of documents held by ASIO and \"advised him to stop talking because he would harm his defence\". Monis staged a protest outside the court, following the adjournment of the case, \"wearing chains and holding a sign claiming he has been tortured in custody\". He was quoted as saying: \"This is not a criminal case. This is a political case.\"\n\nMonis told individuals in Australia, including his lawyers, that he had worked for the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence and Security and had knowledge about Iran's clandestine operations, and that it was for this reason he fled Iran. However, an Iranian embassy official stated Monis' claim to have worked in intelligence and security in Iran was a lie.\n\nMonis said he was the secretary of the Iranian intelligence department. After 9/11, Monis called ASIO saying he knew Iran was responsible and asked for a financial reward for the information. He also asked ASIO to pay him to work as an informant.\n\nMonis proclaimed himself to be a Shia cleric. In late 2007, Australian Federation of Islamic Councils head Ikebal Patel said no Islamic community leaders knew anything about Monis and believed he \"could be a fake deliberately stirring up anti-Islamic sentiment\".\n\nOn 28 January 2008, Australia's senior Shia leader and head of Supreme Islamic Shia Council of Australia, Kamal Mousselmani, told \"The Australian\" that Monis \"was not a genuine Shia spiritual leader\" and \"there are no ayatollahs in Australia.\" He urged Federal government officials to investigate his identity. \"From the way he writes his fatwas (or religious edicts), I don't think he is Shia Muslim\", he added.\n\nIn 2010 Monis was involuntarily hospitalised at Canterbury Hospital after displaying bizarre and erratic behaviour in a parking lot in Ashfield. A psychiatrist who assessed Monis said she believed he had chronic schizophrenia and needed to be on anti-psychotic medication. Monis stated that he had been forced to close his spiritual business, was $20,000 in debt, and had to change his name for \"security reasons.\" Monis was treated by two different psychiatrists who didn't know about the other and he was giving them different information. He was described as \"quite guarded and reluctant to disclose too much information\" and refused to give his phone number and home address. He was concerned that \"ASIO and police were following him... and that some people could read his mind,\" according to a psychologist who grew up in Iran, who diagnosed him with obsessive-compulsive disorder. He avoided buying medication for mental illness with his Medicare card to conceal his use of medication from authorities.\n\nOne solicitor said that Monis seemed paranoid and would often speak with his hand over his mouth because he thought people \"watching him\" might be able to lip read.\n\nMonis, together with Amirah Droudis, undertook a campaign protesting against the presence of Australian troops in Afghanistan, by writing letters to the families of soldiers killed there, in which he called the soldiers murderers, and urged the soldiers' families to petition the government to remove its troops from Afghanistan. According to Justice Dyson Heydon of the High Court, the letters compared \"the (deceased soldier) son to a pig and to a dirty animal. It calls the son's body 'contaminated'. It refers to it as 'the dirty body of a pig'. It describes Hitler as not inferior to the son in moral merit\". Monis was arrested on charges of \"using a postal or similar service to menace, harass or cause offence\". Droudis received a 2-year good-behaviour bond for \"assisting Monis in sending the letters\". She appealed the sentence, but on 12 March 2015 Droudis dropped her appeal.\n\nOn 10 November 2009, Monis appeared in court and claimed through his lawyers to be a peace activist. He later chained himself to the courthouse in protest over the charges. Monis was subsequently barred by the courts from expanding his protest to include letters to UK soldiers' families. In an inquest, lawyer Chris Murphy said that Monis claimed to be contacting families to recruit \"people who had suffered loss in war\" to join his cause. Murphy said \"He didn't strike me as very intelligent.\" Monis chained himself to the courthouse against the directions of lawyers, and Murphy said \"He was entirely self absorbed with his performance ... my recollection is he held a pen in the air and said 'this is my sword'.\" Lawyers described Monis as a \"pest\" and a \"dickhead\".\n\nManny Conditsis said that conversations with Monis were \"draining and exhausting.\" Monis expressed conspiracy theories about ASIO, claiming that families of dead soldiers were not upset at his letters, but \"ASIO was putting them up to it.\" He said \"Monis was a very proud man,\" who cried \"like a baby\" in prison. Another lawyer said he always wanted to be \"the centre of attention\" in the media.\n\nIn December 2011, Monis appeared before the Court of Criminal Appeal in Sydney arguing that the charges against him were invalid because they infringed his implied constitutional freedom of political communication, but the three-judge panel unanimously dismissed his case.\n\nUpon further appeal to the High Court of Australia, the six-judge panel split 3–3 over the issue. Although the High Court of Australia normally comprises seven judges, one seat was vacant and as yet unfilled at the time Monis's case appeared before the court. Failing to achieve a majority vote in Monis's favour, the lower court's unanimous decision was left to stand.\n\nOn 12 December 2014, Monis' appeal against his conviction for criminal use of the postal service resulted in a split decision of the High Court. The decision related to his protest against the presence of Australian troops in Afghanistan, which he expressed by sending letters to the families of soldiers killed there in which he called the soldiers murderers and urged the families to petition the government to remove its troops from Afghanistan. One of the letters compared a dead soldier to a pig and called his body \"contaminated\". He sent similar letters to the families of British soldiers and the mother of a government official killed by a bombing in Jakarta, Indonesia. Monis pleaded guilty and was sentenced to probation and 300 hours of community service and banned from using the Australian postal service. According to \"The Age\", this conviction consumed him for several years, and the hostage incident followed three days after an unsuccessful attempt to have the conviction overturned. Monis had been granted conditional bail because the magistrate said \"there were significant flaws in the Crown's case\".\n\nMonis attempted to join the Rebels Motorcycle Club sometime in 2012 or 2013, and was photographed with a \"1%\" logo representing outlaw motorcycle clubs. Club members reportedly stated \"no one really liked him\" and described him as \"strange and weird\" and said \"He would say he had a lot of money, but then he didn't have any.\" He was kicked out of the club and Rebels took his motorbike.\n\nMonis ran a \"spiritual healing\" business and promoted himself as a clairvoyant an expert in \"astrology, numerology, meditation and black magic\" services. The business has been described as a front for sexual advances on vulnerable women, who were told that they could only receive treatment if they were undressed and massaged on the breasts and genitals. With some women, he threatened black magic curses if they did not submit to sex with him.\n\nOn 14 March 2014, Monis was arrested and charged with sexually and indecently assaulting a young woman who went to his consultancy in Wentworthville, New South Wales, for \"spiritual healing\", after seeing an advertisement in a local newspaper. Seven months later, on 13 October 2014, a further 40 charges were added, including 22 counts of aggravated sexual assault and 14 counts of aggravated indecent assault, allegedly committed against six more women who had visited his business.\n\nMonis promoted himself as a peace activist, and told his lawyers that his hate-mail campaign was to make families of dead soldiers support peace.\n\nCommercial news media in Sydney often condemned Monis for making videos with his girlfriend narrating, expressing happiness about the Holocaust and 9/11 and attacking rape victims. Monis hated Channel Seven for their coverage of the Muhamed Haneef affair, and ran aggressive protests outside their studios. He once rushed at television hosts Melissa Doyle and David Koch in Martin Place yelling, \"You are a killer and a terrorist.\" Monis would often put on clerical garb and chain himself to a post visible from the Channel Seven live studio, handing out pamphlets declaring there was a \"War on Islam\" - leading the network to move studios when broadcasting the Sunrise program. Following the Haneef affair, in which a doctor was accused of aiding terrorists, Monis handed out pamphlets against Sunrise alleging that they told \"Muslim doctors\" that \"If you want to kill people, why not use the tools of your own trade like a plague or a disease or something?\" Monis made complaints to Channel Seven and the Australian Communications and Media Authority, which were dismissed.\n\nKevin Rudd publicised his consideration of changes to citizenship laws during the prosecution of Monis's letters. Monis used social media to attack politicians including then Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott and former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd. His criticisms of Abbott, from 2013, related to Australia's military presence in Afghanistan. On 5 December 2014, he referred to a statement made by Rudd on changing immigration laws after Monis had been charged with seven counts of harassment. Before it was taken down, on 15 December 2014, Monis's Facebook account had 14,000 \"likes\".\n\nMonis featured a photograph of Osama bin Laden on his website in 2008.\n\nIt has been reported that Monis was radicalised by members of Hizb ut-Tahrir. In June 2014 Monis attended a presentation by Uthman Badar and Wassim Doureihi of Hizb ut-Tahrir which was held in response to an earlier Uthman Badar lecture titled 'Honour Killings are Morally Justified', which was cancelled. Monis attended Hizb ut-Tahrir rallies and was described by \"Sydney Morning Herald\" journalist Anne Davies as \"a little unstable. He also seemed a little creepy. Ominously, he also told me he did not think giving speeches would be enough.\"\n\nIn October 2014, Monis wrote a letter to George Brandis' office seeking advice on the legality of communicating with ISIS.\n\nMonis claimed to have converted from Shia Islam to Sunni Islam. An announcement on his now-suspended website, posted a week before the Sydney siege, stated: \"I used to be a Rafidi, but not any more. Now I am a Muslim, Alhamdu Lillah.\" \"Rafidi\", which means \"one who rejects\" in Arabic, \"is typically used by Sunnis to denigrate Shias as non-Muslim.\" Monis also used his website to pledge allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, leader of the Islamic State whose 'main enemies' are the Shi'a.\n\nOn the day prior to taking a group of people hostage, Monis posted to his website:\nAustralian Muslim commentators said that his conversion to Sunni Islam was less out of genuine religious conviction than designed to provide credibility in seeking an association with ISIL, as one \"can't really claim to love IS when you're a Shiite and they're trying to exterminate you\". He was a long-time self-proclaimed sheikh, albeit not recognised as such in the Islamic community. He was marginalised by Australian Muslim religious authorities and mosques for his extremist views and problematic personal and criminal history. It appears he came to espouse an extreme Islamist ideology on his own, and police and intelligence agencies have not identified any connections between Monis and international terrorist organisations.\n\nOn the morning of 15 December 2014, Monis took hostage employees and customers at the Lindt chocolate café in Martin Place, Sydney, across from a Seven Network television studio. Hostages were made to hold up a Black Standard with the \"shahādah\" (Islamic statement of faith) written in white Arabic text.\n\nNeighbouring buildings, including government offices and financial institutions, and Martin Place railway station, were evacuated and locked down. Some hostages managed to escape. The event lasted over 16 hours when hostages made a run for the exit with Monis firing missing all hostages. Monis then took Tori Johnston (the cafe manager) at gunpoint forcing him to kneel before firing a fatal shot into Johnston's head. Police tactical officers then decided to storm the café resulting in a shootout between Monis and police in the early hours of the following morning and Monis was confirmed by police to have died in the ensuing confrontation. Two of the hostages also died, several others were wounded, and a police officer suffered minor injuries.\n\nIn a website posting prior to the hostage incident, Monis denied all the charges against him, calling them politically motivated, accusing the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence and Australia's ASIO of framing him.\n\nNo one claimed Monis's body when it was released by the NSW Coroner, and he was subsequently buried in an undisclosed NSW location at state expense.\n\nIn 2016, Monis was listed under mentally disturbed individuals who have launched recent violent attacks justified with Islamist ideas or slogans. Other examples include the perpetrator of the 2016 Munich knife attack and Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, the perpetrator of the 2014 shootings at Parliament Hill, Ottawa. According to psychologists and psychiatrists who study radicalisation, jihad propaganda and calls to kill the infidels can push mentally ill individuals to act, even in the absence of direct or personal contact with Islamists.\n\nPrime Minister Tony Abbott was briefed by the Australian Federal Police on 16 December 2014 that Monis had a gun licence, but the AFP later confirmed that Monis \"was not a registered firearms licence holder\".\nA joint review has been announced by the federal and state governments, to be helmed by Michael Thawley from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and Blair Comley of the New South Wales Department of Premier and Cabinet. It will investigate the handling of the siege, and how Monis \"slipped through state and federal security and legal nets\". Although a call had been made to the national security hotline based on the contents of Monis' website, there were no threats of direct violence.\n\nOn 16 December 2014, officers from the New South Wales Police Force and the Australian Federal Police went to the Belmore home of Monis' partner Amirah Droudis, and removed property. Her bail was revoked after a hearing on 22 December. In November 2016 Droudis was found guilty, in a judge-only trial, of the murder of Monis' ex-wife.\n\nOn 29 January 2015, an inquest began into the deaths at the Lindt Cafe, presided over by the NSW State Coroner, Michael Barnes. Its aim is \"to determine how the [three] deaths occurred, the factors that contributed to them and whether they could have been prevented\". The joint State-Federal review was released on 22 February 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "18010774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18010774", "title": "Minister of the Navy and Postal Affairs", "text": "Minister of the Navy and Postal Affairs\n\nThe Norwegian Minister of Navy and Postal Affairs was the head of the Norwegian Ministry of Navy and Postal Affairs. The position existed from 1815 to 1885, but was named Minister of the Navy and Postal Affairs only from 1861.\n\nIn 1861, the Ministry of Postal Affairs had been merged with the Ministry of the Navy. The Ministry of the Navy and Postal Affairs was regarded the direct successor. Before this, various other names were used.\n\nIn 1815, the ministry was named the \"7th Ministry\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32734446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32734446", "title": "Monty Davidson", "text": "Monty Davidson\n\nMontgomery Bryden \"Monty\" Davidson (23 October 1935 – 26 March 2017) was Canadian politician. He served as a New Democratic member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario for the riding of Cambridge from 1975 until 1981.\n\nMonty Davidson was a staff representative for the Textile Workers of America and a long-time union organizer. He went to work, at the age of 15, for the Stauffer and Dobbie Co. textile plant in Galt, Ontario and became shop steward at the age of 17.\n\nIn the 1975 provincial election, Davidson ran as the NDP candidate in the new riding of Cambridge. He defeated Liberal candidate Claudette Millar by 1,593 votes. He was re-elected in 1977 defeating Progressive Conservative candidate Bill Barlow by 554 votes. In the 1981 election he again faced Barlow but lost to him by 849 votes. During his time as an MPP, he sat in opposition under NDP leaders Stephen Lewis and Michael Cassidy.\n\nIn 1981, he took a job with the Occupational Health and Safety Branch of the Ontario Federation of Labour. He said, \"It's a full-time job and I'm very fortunate that there were people looking out for me who were willing to give me this kind of work in an area that I'm familiar with.\" In his later career, he worked at the Workers Health and Safety Centre in Cambridge before retiring in 1999.\n\nDavidson died on March 26, 2017. He was survived by Margaret, his wife of 62 years, and six children. The NDP association in Cambridge established an annual award in his memory \"to celebrate [his] life-long service to working people\". \n"}
{"id": "2259415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259415", "title": "Mors Kochanski", "text": "Mors Kochanski\n\nMors Kochanski is a Polish Canadian bushcraft and wilderness survival instructor, naturalist and author. He has acquired an international following and has instructed for both military and civilians in Canada, the US, the UK and Sweden. He is well known for saying \"The more you know, the less you carry\"\n\nThe Kochanski family immigrated to Canada from Poland in 1938 and Mors was born two years later (1940), the fifth of six children. His mother named him \"Morris\" but, because of a misunderstanding due to her Polish accent, the midwife wrote 'Mors' on the birth certificate. His father fought for the Polish Army, during the First World War. That experience left him with a strong desire to see his children educated, so that they might benefit from serving as officers. Mors' father felt that his children would inevitably be conscripted for military service, during a war in their lifetime.\n\nMors was brought up on a relatively isolated farm in Saskatchewan. He spent most of his time working the farm and assisting his father, who had been a windmill carpenter in Poland. In his early school years, he walked or rode 7 miles to and from school on a bush road. This daily journey was a significant part of his education and the foundation for a lifetime of interest in nature.\n\nIn 1954 his parents moved to Prince Albert and, freed from his farm chores, he made the public library his second home. Mors took particular interest in two books:\n\n\n\nMors was a Sea Cadet for three years. He chose the Navy as a career and received a scholarship to the Canadian Services College, Royal Roads. While enrolled, he traveled by ship through the Panama Canal, in the summer of 1959. He was hospitalized for five weeks during his studies, predominantly due to a case of the mumps. This contributed to an honourable discharge in his second year, after failing too many subjects on the way to his Chemical Engineering degree.\n\nFrom 1960 to 1964 he took Arts and Sciences at the University of Saskatchewan. Rather than enrolling in curriculum courses, Mors took classes that were of interest to him, including anthropology, psychology, geology and writing. His lack of participation in a recognised degree program resulted in a suspension from the university due to \"a complete lack of direction\", after four years.\n\nFrom that point on, he resolved to become a specialist in outdoor subjects, specialising in wilderness living skills and the lifestyles of wilderness peoples. However, Mors had many different jobs, before he found his opportunity to become an instructor. These include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIt was also around this time that he received a pilot’s license.\n\nIn 1968, Blue Lake Centre (near Hinton, Alberta) began operating outdoor education programs. Mors, now 28 years of age, offered his services. At the same time, he met his friend and mentor, Tom Roycraft. At the time, Tom was the senior civilian survival instructor at a Department of National Defence survival school.\n\nDuring the 1970s Mors became an associate professor at the University of Alberta Faculty of Physical Education, editor of the magazine ‘Alberta Wilderness Arts and Recreation’ and performed freelance work for various agencies.\n\nIn 1986, he was approached to write a book on survival and wilderness skills for the Canadian boreal forests which was originally titled \"Northern Bushcraft\". The book became a Canadian bestseller. The original title 'Northern Bushcraft' was in reference to an earlier publication 'Bushcraft' by Richard Harry Graves, which covered survival and wilderness living skills in the Australian environment. Eventually, the publishers later shortened the title to 'Bushcraft'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7873910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7873910", "title": "Nehemiah Hayyun", "text": "Nehemiah Hayyun\n\nNehemiah Hiyya ben Moses Hayyun (ca. 1650 – ca. 1730) was a Bosnian Kabalist. His parents, of Sephardic descent, lived in Sarajevo, Bosnia (then a part of the Ottoman Empire), where probably he was born, although in later life he pretended that he was a Palestinian emissary born in Safed. He received his Talmudic education in Hebron.\n\nIn his eighteenth year he became rabbi of Uskup (The Ottoman Turkish spelling of the city's name during the period referred to in this article is \"Üsküp\" - ). This position, however, he held only for a brief period. Thereafter he led a wandering life, as a merchant, as a scholar, or as a mendicant. In the guise of a saint he constantly sought adventures of love. From Uskup he went to Palestine, then to Egypt. In 1708 he made his appearance in Smyrna, where he won some adherents willing to help him publish his \"Mehemnuta de Kulla,\" and thus secure a rabbinical position for him. In this work he asserted that Judaism teaches a Trinitarian God. This God, he declared, embodies three faces (\"parẓufim\") – the Ancient of Days (\"'Attiḳ\"), the Holy King, and the Shekinah. Ḥayyun's own part in this book consists only of two commentaries; the text was anonymously written by a Sabbatean pupil. Leaving Smyrna, Ḥayyun was led to Jerusalem with pomp and ceremony, but the rabbi of Smyrna, who had seen through his pretensions, warned the rabbis of Jerusalem of his heresies. The immediate consequence was that even before his arrival the rabbis of Jerusalem, though they had never read his work, excommunicated him as a \"min,\" and condemned his book to be burned.\n\nExcommunicated, he met little sympathy anywhere (1709-1711) with his kabalistic fraud. In Venice, however (1711), with the approval of the rabbis of that community, he had printed an extract from his work, under the title \"Raza di-Yiḥudah,\" into the beginning of which he had woven the first stanza of a lascivious Italian love-song, \"La Bella Margaritha,\" with a mystical hymn entitled \"Keter 'Elyon.\" In Prague, where he lived from 1711 until 1712, he found an appropriate soil for his teaching. Joseph Oppenheim, the son of David Oppenheim, received him. The Kabbalistic rabbi of Prague, Naphtali Cohen, was also greatly impressed with his personality. He even highly recommended his book, basing his judgment merely upon fraudulent testimonials. Here Ḥayyun delivered sermons which had a Shabbethaian background, and which he had printed in Berlin (1713) under the title \"Dibre Neḥemyah.\" Moreover, he played the role of a wizard, of one who had intercourse with Elijah, of a person capable of resurrecting the dead and of creating new worlds. By writing amulets he earned the money he needed for gambling. By fraudulent introductions he also managed to obtain friends in Vienna, Nikolsburg, Prossnitz, Breslau, Glogau, and Berlin, and formed political connections with Löbel Prossnitz of Moravia. In Berlin (1713), the community of which city was then split into two parties, he succeeded in having his book \"Mehemnuta de Kulla,\" or \"Oz le-Elohim,\" printed with the approval of the Berlin rabbi, Aaron Benjamin Wolf.\n\nOn the prestige he obtained from his book he now tried his fortune in Amsterdam. Almost from the outset he encountered the antagonism of Tzvi Ashkenazi, rabbi of the German congregation of Amsterdam, who mistook him for another Ḥayyun, an old enemy of his. Ḥayyun surrendered his book to the board of the Portuguese congregation in Amsterdam, in order to obtain permission to sell it. Distrusting their own rabbi, Solomon Ayllon, this board brought the matter before Tzvi Ashkenazi, who, of course, very soon detected its heretical character and called for its author's expulsion. At this point, however, Ayllon, under the threat of Hayyun to reveal his past life as a Shabbethaian to the whole of Amsterdam, became his defender, and made Ḥayyun's cause entirely his own and that of the Portuguese community. The result was that Ayllon was charged by the board of his synagogue to form a commission to reexamine Ḥayyun's book. Without awaiting the decision of this commission, Tzvi Ashkenazi and his anti-Shabbethaian friend Moses Hagiz excommunicated Ḥayyun (July 23, 1713). They published their decision, with various unjustified calumnies, in pamphlets, which, answered by counter pamphlets, greatly increased the ill feeling between the Portuguese and the German congregation.\n\nThe Portuguese commission announced its decision on August 7, 1713. In spite of the objections of two members of the commission, one of them Ayllon's own son, they declared Ḥayyun entirely guiltless of heresy, and he was rehabilitated in a solemn assembly of the great Amsterdam synagogue. But Ḥayyun was excommunicated by many other outside congregations, and his disreputable antecedents and the deceptive means by which he acquired introductions were exposed, especially by Leon Brieli, the aged rabbi of Mantua. In spite of this the members of the Portuguese commission adhered to their decision, but felt themselves bound to publicly exonerate themselves, and for this purpose issued \"Ḳoshṭ Imre Emet,\" a pamphlet which was not without obvious misstatements. Protected by the Portuguese, Ḥayyun could even insult his opponents in pamphlets, and did so. He attacked Ẓebi Ashkenazi, in \"Ha-Ẓad Ẓebi,\" Amsterdam, 1713; Joseph Ergas, in \"Shalhebet Yah\" and \"Ketobet Ḳa'ḳa\"; Ẓebi Ashkenazi, Moses Ḥagiz, and Leon Brieli, in \"Pitḳa Min Shemaya\"; Moses Ḥagiz, in \"Iggeret Shebuḳin,\" Amsterdam, 1714. At last, however, Ḥayyun left for the Orient, and every one felt relieved. The introductions given him by his supporters were of little avail; wherever he went the doors were barred against him.\n\nIn August 1724, through the influence of a vizier, he succeeded at Constantinople in absolving himself from the excommunication on the condition that he should abstain from teaching, writing, and preaching on cabalistic subjects. Under oath he promised this, but subsequently broke his word. Thus rehabilitated, he went to Vienna and managed, by urging his Trinitarian teachings and professing his intention to convert the Jews to Christianity, to obtain a letter of protection from the Austrian emperor, although he secretly sympathized with the Shabbethaians and still openly professed to be an Orthodox Jew. But his game had been played. Before the walls of Prague he faced starvation. In Berlin, he threatened to profess Christianity if support were denied him. His friends in Amsterdam, even Ayllon, thus forsook him. In April 1726, he was excommunicated in Hamburg and finally in Altona. He fled to North Africa, where he died. His son turned Christian, and endeavored to revenge his father by allegedly-calumnious attacks on Judaism.\n\n"}
{"id": "24998576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24998576", "title": "Nissan Katzenelson", "text": "Nissan Katzenelson\n\nDr. Nissan Katzenelson (1862, Babruysk – 1925), was a Russian Jewish activist, member of the First State Duma of the Russian Empire in 1906-1907.\n\nThis Libau banker, son of Yosef Katzenelson and Feye Breyne Katzenelson, took part in the Third Zionist congress at Basle, and was subsequently elected to the Directorate of the Jewish Colonial Trust. A close friend of Dr. Theodor Herzl, he was invited to accompany him to Saint Petersburg in 1903. After signing the Vyborg Manifesto, he spent three months in prison and was forbidden to stand again for election.\n"}
{"id": "2142422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2142422", "title": "Robert Hendy-Freegard", "text": "Robert Hendy-Freegard\n\nRobert Hendy-Freegard IBPM 2 (born Anas Tarhi, 1 March 1971) is a Moroccan barman, car salesman, conman and impostor who masqueraded as an MI5 agent and fooled several people to go underground for fear of IRA assassination. He was born in Hodthorpe, a small village near Whitwell, in Derbyshire.\n\nHendy-Freegard met his victims on social occasions or as customers in the pub or car dealership where he was working. He would reveal his \"role\" as an undercover agent for MI5, Special Branch or Scotland Yard working against the IRA. He would win them over, ask for money and make them do his bidding. He demanded that they cut off contact with family and friends, go through \"loyalty tests\" and live alone in poor conditions. He seduced five women, claiming that he wanted to marry them. Initially some of the victims refused to cooperate with the police because he had warned them that police would be double agents or MI5 agents performing another \"loyalty test\".\n\nA television documentary called \"The Spy who stole my Life\" was shown by Channel Five on 7 September 2005. In Australia, this was called \"The spy who conned me\".\n\nIn 1992 Robert Freegard was working in \"The Swan\", a pub in Newport, Shropshire and befriended two women and one man, three agriculture students of the Harper Adams Agricultural College in Edgmond.\n\nFirst, he told the man that he was an MI5 undercover agent who was investigating an IRA cell in the college. He forced the man to let himself be beaten up to prove his loyalty and to show that he was “hard enough”. He also convinced him to behave in a bizarre manner in college to prove his loyalty and to alienate him from friends. Then Hendy-Freegard told him his cover was blown and both of them had to go undercover. He told the women that the man had cancer and convinced them to accompany them in a “farewell tour” all over England.\n\nLater he let them in on “the story”. He told them to sever all contact with their families because they were in danger just through being associated with him. They moved to Sheffield and gave him all their money. The three spent five months in a Sheffield flat because Hendy-Freegard had forbidden them to go out.\n\nThe group eventually split up, others took jobs — still handing most of their money to Hendy-Freegard — and one of the women became his lover. She gave birth to his two daughters. When she eventually found out about his other affairs and confronted him, he beat her up and threatened to kill her before he told her that she could not talk to anyone for “security reasons”.\n\nHendy-Freegard convinced the man and his parents to give him £300,000. He was put into “training”, performing spurious jobs. Sometimes he would have to wait for days in a certain place for a non-existent meeting. Eventually, he told his sister that the IRA was pursuing him, and the tale began to unravel.\n\nHendy-Freegard also seduced a newly married personal assistant who was taking care of his children. He told her he was with MI5 and forced her to cut contact with friends and family lest the IRA would kill her. He also took naked pictures of her and threatened to give them to her husband if she would not cooperate. She had to change her name and tell the deed poll officer it was because she was sexually abused as a child. Her loyalty tests included sleeping in Heathrow airport and on park benches for several nights and pretending to be a Jehovah's Witness so that his bosses in MI5 would let them marry. She was told she was under constant surveillance and once that a sniper was watching their home. He told her to take up loans, supposedly to settle her debts.\n\nIn 2000 Hendy-Freegard met a lawyer, a customer in the car dealership in Chiswick, West London. He helped her to change her car, pocketed the difference, asked for more, persuaded her to give more money for a leasing business they would run together and stole £14,000 from her building society account. They became lovers and went on holidays all over the world. They then became engaged but her family intervened. When the leasing car did not materialize, he told her that the Polish Mafia had taken it.\n\nIn 2002 Hendy-Freegard seduced an American child psychologist with tales of how he had infiltrated a criminal network and how he had killed a criminal who had threatened to expose him. He said he wanted to marry her, on condition that she would also become an agent and cut off the contact with her family. He instigated loyalty tests and a change of identity. He urged her to kill her son and told her that he had taken a contract out for the murder of both of them. He told her that they would move to a lighthouse and when she refused to live there, he wanted £80,000 to repay the state because the arrangements had already been made. She got the money from her father as payment for \"spy school\". At one stage she spent three weeks \"hiding\" in a bathroom, locked in there by Freegard.\n\nHendy-Freegard convinced a Sheffield jeweller to give the mother of his children a room for a time and later tried to recruit him into the \"organization\". Hendy-Freegard also sent him to perform spurious missions as \"training\" - like sending him to London with strict instructions of what transportation to use, to buy a can opener in a certain shop and hand it over to a certain man in a certain pub. When the victim's \"controller\" seemed excessively amused when told about his trip, he grew suspicious and demanded to see his boss. There was no one in the meeting.\n\nHendy-Freegard convinced a female company director that he was watching someone in the Sheffield car dealership where he was working and convinced her to buy a better car. He sold her original car on his own account, kept the money and convinced her to take a £15,000 loan for him. He also again asked for a room for the mother of his children because she was supposedly in a witness protection program and told her that she was Spanish, so that the two women would not speak to each other.\n\nHendy-Freegard told a woman in Newcastle that he needed money to buy off IRA killers, who had been released after the Good Friday agreement. She gave him £16,000 over six years. He also sold her car and again kept the money.\n\nIn 2002 Scotland Yard and the FBI organized a sting operation. First, the FBI bugged the phone of the American psychologist's parents. Her mother told Hendy-Freegard she would hand over £10,000 but only in person. Hendy-Freegard met the mother in Heathrow airport where police apprehended him. He denied all charges and claimed they were part of a conspiracy against him and continued this story in the subsequent trial.\n\nOn 23 June 2005, after an eight-month trial, Blackfriars Crown Court convicted Robert Hendy-Freegard for two counts of kidnapping, 10 of theft and 8 of deception. On 6 September 2005 he was given a life sentence. Police doubt that they have discovered all the victims and no criminally sexual offences from at least one of the 'victims' (testimony from victim E.Richardson due to numerous 'abnormal' rape offences) were taken into account.\n\nOn 25 April 2007, the BBC reported that Robert Hendy-Freegard had appealed against his kidnapping convictions and won. His life sentence was revoked but still served nine years for the other offences.\n\nThe Court of Appeal (Criminal Division) judgment played an important role in defining the modern offence of kidnap.\n\n"}
{"id": "38460790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38460790", "title": "Samfundet SHT", "text": "Samfundet SHT\n\nSamfundet SHT (English translation: \"SHT Society\") is a Swedish fraternal order founded in 1844 in Uppsala. It is dedicated to the Roman god Bacchus, the fine arts and mutual enjoyment.\n\nOriginally a student fraternity, it gradually transformed during the second half of the 19th century and came to encompass mainly older academics and university educated professionals. Around the beginning of the 20th century, members of SHT held a majority of the seats in the Swedish academy and the board of directors of Uppsala University. This dominant position within Sweden's arts and sciences was to a large extent lost during the 20th century, due to social changes and university reforms which came to dilute the influence previously held by the academical elite of Uppsala and Lund. This did however not slow the growth of the society.\n\nToday, SHT has lodges or other suborganisations in 27 Swedish cities and a small chapter in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n"}
{"id": "5259732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259732", "title": "Sherman Skolnick", "text": "Sherman Skolnick\n\nSherman H. Skolnick (July 13, 1930 – May 21, 2006) was a Chicago-based activist, anti-Catholic, and conspiracy theorist.\n\nBorn in Chicago in 1930, at the age of six, Skolnick was paralyzed by polio, and he used a wheelchair for the rest of his life. His parents, a homemaker and a tailor, were Jewish European immigrants. Skolnick's father was from Russia.\n\nSkolnick was founder and chairman of the Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, which he started in 1963. He used the local press to distribute his reports, later establishing a telephone hotline–\"Hotline News\", a public-access television show on cable TV, and a web site.\n\nSkolnick's investigations put Otto Kerner Jr. in prison for three years; and led to the resignation of two Illinois Supreme Court justices, Roy J. Solfisburg, Jr. and Ray Klingbiel, who, as Skolnick reported, had accepted bribes of stock from a defendant in a case on which they ruled. The scandal catapulted John Paul Stevens, special counsel to an investigating commission, to fame as a justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. In 2001, the story became the subject of a book, \"Illinois Justice\", by Kenneth A. Manaster.\n\nSkolnick's final written works include an 81-part series entitled \"The Overthrow of the American Republic,\" and a 16-part series entitled \"Coca-Cola, the CIA, and the Courts.\" Skolnick wrote for Willis Carto's Spotlight, a Holocaust denying publication. \n\nSkolnick died of a heart attack on May 21, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1344143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1344143", "title": "Silviu Brucan", "text": "Silviu Brucan\n\nSilviu Brucan (born Saul Bruckner; 18 January 1916 – 14 September 2006) was a Romanian Communist politician. Though he disagreed with Nicolae Ceauşescu's policies, he never gave up his Communist beliefs and did not oppose Communist ideology. After the Romanian Revolution, Brucan became a political analyst and author of books on Communism and Eastern Europe.\n\nHe was born in Bucharest to wealthy Jewish parents living in Berzei Street, near Matache Măcelaru Market. His father was a wholesale wool merchant who imported fabrics from England in the aftermath of World War I, suits of fine English fabrics being a luxury item that was popular among the Romanian bourgeoisie that was rising by the economic boom. He attended the German-language \"Evangelische Schule\" of Luterană Street and the Saint Sava National College.\n\nIn 1929 came the Wall Street Crash, leading to the Great Depression and a slump in the luxury industry, including English clothes and Brucan's father's shop in Şepcari Street went bankrupt and the Brucan family was left penniless. They moved into a modest apartment on Vlad Ţepeș Street. Brucan's father found a job as a fabric expert working for a German merchant, but as that was not enough to feed a family of six, Silviu Brucan began giving private lessons to pupils of wealthy families, thus gaining access to the world of the rich landowners and industrialists. In his memories, Brucan said that the sharp contrast between the world of luxury of the privileged classes and the misery of those who worked hard all day to earn a living and the feeling of social injustice strongly influenced him.\n\nAs a social outcast (his father had been indicted for fraudulent bankruptcy) and as a Jew in the 1930s, he was prevented by the Iron Guard supporters from formally studying at the University of Bucharest. Nevertheless, with the help of some friends, he attended some courses at the university, such as the lectures of historian Nicolae Iorga, the philosopher Constantin Rădulescu-Motru, the aesthetician Tudor Vianu and the philosopher Nae Ionescu.\n\nBrucan joined the left-wing movement at the age of 18. He was attracted by the opinions found leftist and antifascist weekly newspapers such as \"Stînga\" (The Left), \"Era Nouă\" (New Era) and \"Cuvîntul Liber\" (Free Word). Brucan joined communist groups, which organized \"cultural evenings\" at the houses of some supporter. There, he met literate communist supporters such as Alexandru Sahia. He began reading Marxist literature and soon was co-opted into party operations, being asked t hide some illegal party documents (speeches at a Comintern meeting in Prague) at his home.\n\nIn 1935, the moderate left-wing \"Dimineaţa\" newspaper competed against \"Universul\", a nationalist right-wing newspaper. To eliminate his rival, the owner of \"Universul\", Stelian Popescu, began an anti-Semitic campaign (the owners of \"Dimineaţa\" were Jews) leading to fascists burning copies of the newspaper and associated posters. The communist and socialist youth organized vigilante groups to defend the newsstands. Brucan was part of one of the left-wing groups defending the newsstands of Gara de Nord and was involved in a fight with Iron Guar supporters, sustaining a severe head injury.\n\nHe subsequently worked as a journalist, first writing a fashionable social column at \"Gazeta de seară\", then working as a proofreader at \"Adevărul Literar\" Brucan met Aurel Alicu, a leader of the National Peasant Youth, with whom he started in 1937 a weekly called \"Dacia Nouă\", having writers from both the traditional parties (National Liberal and National Peasants Party) and from left-wing circles (Miron Constantinescu, Corneliu Mănescu, Roman Moldovan and Victor Iliu). The newspaper was published for a year until the Octavian Goga government shut it down.\n\nIn late 1938, he was conscripted, serving at a border guard unit at the frontier with Bulgaria, where he was acquainted with both komitadji extremists who attacked Romanian outposts, the Aromanian colonists in Southern Dobruja and the Middle Eastern smugglers who illegally crossed the border with hashish or opium.\n\nDuring World War II, Brucan lived in the attic of a house in a quiet area in Cotroceni, working as an illegal press worker for the Communist Party's newspaper \"Scînteia\". In 1943, he was arrested by a police agent who accidentally noticed him on Buzești Street, recalling his face from a photograph of a fellow Communist who had been previously arrested. However, as the police could not find any incriminating evidence, he was released a few days later.\n\nIn September 1944, upon Romania's exit from the Axis camp and the onset of Soviet occupation, he was named the general secretary of \"Scînteia\" (the deputy editor in chief to Leonte Răutu), the official newspaper of the Communist Party.\n\nAs long as the other newspapers still were published, \"Scînteia\" competed with them for the readers and Brucan, with the rest of the editors, tried to make a professional newspaper. However, as party newspapers and independent newspapers were forcefully closed, one by one, by the new communist authorities, the \"Scînteia\" journalists became office clerks working 9 to 5 and writing ideological editorials for the indoctrination of the workers, who were \"full of hope for a glorious future\".\n\nAs editor of \"Scînteia\", he supported the prison sentences of Iuliu Maniu, Gheorghe I. Brătianu and Corneliu Coposu (\"see Tămădău Affair\"). He also supported the repression of anticommunist journalists, such as Radu Gyr and Pamfil Şeicaru, asking for the death penalty for the latter.\n\nDuring this period, Brucan's wife, the Stalinist Alexandra Sidorovici (with whom he had three children: daughter Anca, and sons Dinu and Vlad), became a public prosecutor of the Romanian People's Tribunals, which allowed her to ask for death sentences for many war criminals; the sister of Teofil Sidorovici, she was a member of the \"nomenklatura\" of the Communist government.\n\nFor a short while (1948–1949), Brucan was Professor of Journalism at the University of Bucharest although he never graduated from college.\n\nA close collaborator of Communist leader Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, Brucan, along with Sorin Toma and Mihail Roller, was among the prominent party ideologues of the group that was co-ordinated by Leonte Răutu after the late 1940s and into the 1950s.\n\nA loyal Soviet agent, Brucan was ambassador of Romania to the United States in 1955. He used the experience as the basis of a book that he co-authored with Sidorovici (a virulent attack on American institutions), He was ambassador to the United Nations between 1959 and 1962 as well as the head of Televiziunea Română.\n\nProgressively from the 1960s, Brucan became an opponent of the new leadership around Ceauşescu. Initially, upon news that Ceauşescu had been appointed general secretary, he considered renouncing his political career to focus on an office at the university, but he was persuaded by Emil Bodnăraş to remain an activist. He was a professor of Scientific Socialism at the Bucharest Faculty of Medicine. According to Brucan himself, he faced a period of financial insecurity and began work as a translator to cover his expenses. He also sent several works, subject to censorship at home, to be published in the United States. They showed his move towards reformism that he advocated to be applied inside the Eastern bloc.\n\nIn 1987, after sending an anti-Ceauşescu declaration to the foreign press (to the BBC, the \"International Herald Tribune\", and United Press International), a relatively \n-mild criticism for the violent repression of the Braşov Rebellion, he was sentenced to house arrest. At the time, Brucan had won the approval of Soviet authorities, which had already engaged in \"Perestroika\" policies and had been extended informal protection by the Soviet embassy in Bucharest, allowing him a relevant degree of freedom.\n\nWith the help from Iulian Vlad, the chief of the Securitate, he was issued a passport, and in 1988, despite being expelled from the party, he spent six months in the United States, where he was in contact with the United States Department of State, headed by George P. Shultz. Brucan also claimed to have been invited to Moscow by Soviet politicians Mikhail Gorbachev and Anatoly Dobrynin, who endorsed criticism of Ceauşescu and a Romanian version of \"Glasnost\". Based on the personal testimonies of Gorbachev's adviser, scholar Vladimir Tismăneanu has disputed all of Brucan's account.\n\nThe fact that Ceaușescu allowed Brucan freedom of movement shows that Ceaușescu was not subjecting him to the same restrictions as to common dissidents, especially because of the interest about the safety of Brucan by both the Soviet Union (by making sure that the \"Pravda\" correspondent in Bucharest would keep close contact with him) and the governments of Britain and the United States by inviting him as a special guest in their countries.\n\nIn March 1989, together with five other Communist dignitaries (Gheorghe Apostol, Alexandru Bârlădeanu, Grigore Răceanu, Corneliu Mănescu and Constantin Pîrvulescu), he signed the open letter known as \"Scrisoarea celor şase\"(\"The Letter of the Six\").\n\nThe document, which was immediately broadcast on Radio Free Europe and Voice of America, was a left-wing critique of Ceauşescu's policies, and it led to the swift arrest and interrogation of the signatories by the Securitate and then to their internal exile and house arrest at various locations. The Securitate depicted Brucan as one of several \"hostile, inveterate, elements\" and \"the agent of foreign imperialist secret services\". Although lacking in actual popular support, the letter was argued to be the among most important and influential acts of opposition and a notorious break with the traditions of strict obedience and party discipline.\n\nBrucan was sent to a location on the outskirts of Bucharest, in Dămăroaia, the reason for his subsequent colloquial moniker, \"The Oracle of Dămăroaia\". Despite increased pressure, most of the contributors to the protest refused to withdraw their statement. Brucan later accused Apostol of having given in to pressures.\n\nBrucan was part of the National Salvation Front (FSN) during the Romanian Revolution, joining its Provisional Council and its Executive Committee. As a member of the Council, he was also involved in selecting Roman for the office of Premier.\n\nHe was a member of the Council (together with Ion Iliescu, Petre Roman and some generals, including Nicolae Militaru) who decided to put the Ceaușescu couple on trial at the site in which they were being held in Târgoviște. That was due to the fear that Securitate snipers might attack the barracks and free them. According to the testimony of Petre Roman, Brucan was among those who insisted for Nicolae and Elena Ceauşescu to be executed immediately after the trial, a claim that was denied by Brucan.\n\nWhen it was decided that the 10-point programme be read on national television on 22 December, according to Dumitru Mazilu, Brucan wanted it to include a clause that Romania would honour its obligations under the Soviet-controlled Warsaw Pact.\n\nIn early January, Brucan made an assurance that the FSN had no intention of turning into a political party but would support some candidates. However, only three weeks later, he supported the transformation of the FSN into a political party, arguing that otherwise, there would be a \"political vacuum\" that the new political parties would be unable to fill.\n\nAfter public allegations, Brucan resigned from the FSN in February 1990, claiming that he had accomplished his mission to restore stability in Romania and to put the country on a course toward multi-party elections. His prediction that the FSN would win the elections by more than 90%, supported the already-wide suspicions of falsified ballots.\n\nEarly that year, he bad been the host of investor George Soros at the Group for Social Dialogue, a Romanian NGO that had been formed around the intellectual élite of the previous regime.\n\nHe did not wish to run in the 1990 elections but to be \"just the adviser\" of now-President Iliescu. Nevertheless, he later issued a vocal criticism of President Iliescu.\n\nIn 1990, Brucan contended that Romanians would need 20 years to become accustomed to democracy. That claim became well known in Romania.\n\nOn the eve of the day of the first free post-communist elections (20 May 1990), Brucan argued that the 1989 Revolution was not anticommunist but only against Ceauşescu, not the communism of the 1950s and 1960s. He said that Iliescu made a \"monumental\" mistake in \"conceding to the crowd\" and banning the Romanian Communist Party.\n\nAs a supporter of Soviet revival and expansion, he was an important contributor in defining Eurasianism as a geopolitical concept.\n\nFrom the late 1990s, Brucan hosted a news commentary program on the ProTV network (\"Profeţii despre trecut\" - \"Foretellings on the Past\"), initially together with Lucian Mândruţă. During his final years, he was also a columnist for \"Ziarul Financiar\".\n\nIn 1998, he was brought to court by Vasile Lupu, a leader of the Christian-Democratic National Peasants' Party (PNŢCD) and a deputy for Iaşi County. Speaking on his show, Brucan had called Lupu \"astute to the square\" and \"trained Securitate informant\" and indicated that \"any good-faithed National Peasantist who still views himself as a party colleague with Vasile Lupu is self-excluding himself from the PNŢCD\". In 2002, courts decided in Lupu's favour, and Brucan was found guilty of calumny. Brucan was required to pay Lupu the sum of 30 million lei as compensation.\n\nAt the age of 90, Brucan underwent a seven-hour stomach operation on 4 September 2006. Despite an initial good recovery from surgery, his condition suddenly worsened on 13 September, and he died the following day of cardiac arrest.\n\nWriting in 2006, Vladimir Tismăneanu criticized Brucan, arguing that, despite his renunciation of Communism, Brucan had continued to support authoritarianism in public life and to display a taste for intrigue, and that he had attempted to transform the FSN into a \"big party\", virtually replacing the PCR. Tismăneanu pointed out Brucan's post-1990 opposition to Mircea Răceanu, who had been imprisoned on dubious espionage charges under Ceauşescu, and who was later rehabilitated by Romanian courts. He has also contended that memoirs authored by Brucan showed little remorse, if not at all, for his early involvement in support of political repression.\n\nAccording to Victor Neumann, Brucan's role in the Bucharest episode of the 1989 Revolution had apparently helped indirectly the original and virtually unrelated revolt in Timişoara, especially by preventing a more violent repression against it, but it was never explained. He also argued that Brucan's group of former inner-Party dissidents was, in the eyes of the uninformed public at large, the only \"credible alternative\" at the time, and cited Brucan's own statement: \"The train had arrived in the station and we were the only ones who could get on it. What were we to say, that we will not get on? We did it\". Overall, Neumann contended, Silviu Brucan's political and diplomatic expertise, as well as his adaptability, had made this old Stalinist the \"ideologist of political transformations in 1989 Romania\", and had contributed to the supremacy of left-wing discourse in the years following the Revolution (in regard to the latter point, he cited Brucan arguments, which challenged the existence of the right-wing themes in the ideological makeup of the 1989 movement).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2396177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2396177", "title": "Smohalla", "text": "Smohalla\n\nSmohalla (Dreamer) (c. 1815 - 1895) \"Wanapum\" nineteenth-century dreamer-prophet associated with the Dreamers movement among Native American people in the Pacific Northwest’s Columbia Plateau region.\n\nBorn between 1815 and 1820 in the Wallula area of present-day Washington State, Smohalla belonged to the Shahaptian Wanapum (also \"Wanapam\"; called \"Sokulk\" by Lewis and Clark) tribal group. At birth he was called \"Wak-wei\" or \"Kuk-kia\", meaning “arising from the dust of earth mother.” After achieving prominence as a spiritual leader, he became known as \"Smohalla\" (or \"Smo-halla\", \"Shmoqula\", \"Smuxale\", \"Smowalla\", ), also defined as “preacher.” Still other names associated with him include \"Yuyunipitqana\", “the shouting mountain” and \"Waipshwa\", “Rock carrier.” \nFollowing political conflicts with the Walla Walla chief Homily (Homli), Smohalla and his followers moved to the more isolated area of P’na Village at the foot of Priest Rapids in present day Yakima County, Washington. Already distinguished as a warrior, Smohalla began to preach his revitalization doctrine, which emphasized a return to tribal traditions and beliefs around about 1850. The rapid spread of his teachings is said to have contributed to the confederation of tribes in the region against white expansionism in the Yakima War of 1855–1856. Precipitated by government plans to confine Native people to small reservations, the war was fought by a coalition of Indians opposed to the assault on their land base and traditional cultures. Shortly after the war, Smohalla is said to have fought with Moses, a Sinkiuse-Columbia chief, and was nearly killed. Presumed dead, he revived enough to escape by boat.\n\nIt is said that he then set forth on a journey. According to this account, he traveled as far south as Mexico, returning by way of Arizona, Utah and Nevada where he is said to observed Mormon priests \"receiving commands directly from heaven\". When he reached home, he reported to the people that he had been to the spirit world. However, this version was discounted by Wanapum elders and descendants of Smohalla, who argued instead that his communication with the spirits is said to have occurred while he was mourning the loss of a beloved child.\n\nAlready known as a medicine man, the teachings he acquired at this time established him as a prophet. Smohalla exhorted his followers, eventually numbering about 2,000, to return to the ways of their ancestors and to relinquish the teachings and goods of the intruders. One of the best known of a series of prophets in the area, he revived the Washani Religion and the Washat Dance (religion) traditions while introducing other features from his dream or vision. Washani followers believed in the superiority of God and Mother Earth. Adherents included the famous Chief Joseph and his Nez Percé followers as well as Native people from other tribes in the region, such as the Wanapum. One of Smohalla’s chief supporters and assistant was Kotiakan, a Yakama prophet, who helped him in the revitalization movement.\n\nDespite government opposition and interference, Smohalla practiced his religion until the end of his life. After his death in 1895, he was succeeded by his son Yoyouni (also \"Yo-Yonan\"), then by his nephew Puck Hyah Toot. They carried the Smohallan beliefs into the twentieth century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2701558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701558", "title": "Stefan Lucks", "text": "Stefan Lucks\n\nStefan Lucks is a researcher in the fields of communications security and cryptography. Lucks is known for his attack on Triple DES, and for extending Lars Knudsen's Square attack to Twofish, a cipher outside the Square family, thus generalising the attack into integral cryptanalysis. He has also co-authored attacks on AES, LEVIATHAN, and the E0 cipher used in Bluetooth devices, as well as publishing strong password-based key agreement schemes.\n\nLucks graduated from the University of Dortmund in 1992, and received his PhD at the University of Göttingen in 1997.\nAfter leaving the University of Mannheim Lucks now heads the Chair of Media Security at Bauhaus University, Weimar.\n\nTogether with Niels Ferguson, Bruce Schneier and others he developed the Skein hash function as a candidate for the NIST hash function competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "37442061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37442061", "title": "Stephanie McMillan", "text": "Stephanie McMillan\n\nStephanie McMillan (born 1965) is an American political cartoonist, editorialist, and activist from South Florida. A granddaughter of the German commercial animator Hans Fischerkoesen, McMillan aspired to become a cartoonist from the age of ten. During her high school years, she began organizing protests against capitalism and imperialism.\n\nMcMillan graduated from Tisch School of the Arts at New York University in 1987 with a BFA in film. During her time at NYU, she studied animation under Richard Protovin and John Canemaker, and received an award for her student film. In 1992, McMillan was offered her first professional cartooning opportunity as an editorial assistant at XS- magazine/City Link, an alt-newsweekly. By 1999, McMillan began self-syndicating her cartoons, as well as providing exclusive comic features and illustrations for hundreds of publications worldwide. Her work has appeared in the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Daily Beast\", \"South Florida Sun-Sentinel\", \"Yes! Magazine\", \"Comic Relief\", \"Amarillo Globe-News\", \"Funny Times\", Yahoo.com, and the \"San Francisco Bay Guardian\".\nBeyond her professional cartooning, McMillan has been an organizer against capitalism and imperialism all her life. The groups she has worked with include One Struggle, Refuse and Resist!, the Occupy movement throughout the country, U.S. Hands Off the Haitian People's Coalition, and the Revolutionary Communist Youth Brigade. In 2012, McMillan won the Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Award for Editorial Cartoonists for her work as a political cartoonist.\n\nCurrently, McMillan’s daily comic strip, Minimum Security, is syndicated online at Universal Uclick’s gocomics.com. She also draws a weekly editorial cartoon, Code Green, acts as an editor and designer for \"The Notebook\" (Association of American Editorial Cartoonists), and does freelance illustration and writing. Her own books include \"Capitalism Must Die! A Basic Introduction: What capitalism is, why it sucks, and how to crush it\" (INIP -- Idées Nouvelles Idées Prolétariennes, 2014), \"The Beginning of the American Fall\" (Seven Stories Press, 2012), and \"As The World Burns: 50 Simple Things You Can Do to Stay in Denial\" with Derrick Jensen (Seven Stories Press, 2007).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19453613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19453613", "title": "Suman filmography", "text": "Suman filmography\n\nThis is the filmography of the Indian actor Suman Talwar.\n"}
{"id": "1813072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813072", "title": "Theology of Pope Benedict XVI", "text": "Theology of Pope Benedict XVI\n\nThe theology of Pope Benedict XVI, as promulgated during his pontificate, consists mainly of three encyclical letters on love (2005), hope (2007), and \"charity in truth\" (2009), as well as apostolic documents and various speeches and interviews. Benedict's theology underwent developments over the years, many of which were characterized by his leadership position in the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which is entrusted with preserving the Catholic faith in its entirety. His theology originated in the view that God speaks to us through the Church today and not just through the Bible. The Bible is not a natural science textbook, but rather it is the essential testimonial of God’s revelation. One cannot get from it a scientific explanation of how the world arose; one can only glean religious experience from it. Thus Scripture would not wish to inform us about how the different species of plant life gradually appeared or how the sun and the moon and the stars were established. Its purpose ultimately would be to say one thing: God created the world.\n\nThe world is not a chaos of mutually opposed forces; nor is it the dwelling of demonic powers from which human beings must protect themselves. Rather, all of this comes from one power, from God's eternal Reason, which became—in the Word—the power of creation. All of this comes from the same Word of God that we meet in the act of faith. The Bible was written to help us understand God's eternal Reason. The Holy Scripture in its entirety was not written from beginning to end like a novel or a textbook. It is, rather, the echo of God's history with his people. The theme of creation is not set down once for all in one place; rather, it accompanies Israel throughout its history, and, indeed, the whole Old Testament is a journeying with the Word of God. In this respect, the Old and New Testament belong together. Thus every individual part derives its meaning from the whole, and the whole derives its meaning from Christ. The Bible is constantly readapting its images to a continually developing way of thinking. In this way, a gradual and interactive process reveals something deeper and greater. Christians do not read the Old Testament for its own sake but always with Christ and through Christ.\n\nPope Benedict XVI, like his predecessors, intended to present the Word of God to his time. As Pope and Bishop of Rome he explained the message of Jesus Christ, utilizing in part the array of theological analysis, methods and axioms, for which he is well known. To some this raised the question of the relation of Pope—theologian and of the distinction of papal teaching and theological point of view. Nevertheless, official theological statements such as encyclical letters constituted part of the theology of Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nIn his first Encyclical as Pope, \"Deus caritas est\", Benedict XVI describes God as love, and talks about the love which God lavishes upon us and which we in turn must share with others through acts of charity.\n\nHis letter has two parts. A theological speculative part, in which he describes \"the intrinsic link between that Love and the reality of human love\". The second part deals with practical aspects, and calls the world to new energy and commitment in its response to God's love.\n\nBenedict writes about love of God, and considers this important and significant, because we live in a time in which \"the name of God is sometimes associated with vengeance or even a duty of hatred and violence\":\n\nBenedict develops a positive view of sex and Eros in his first encyclical, which finally does away with the traditional Victorian view of the human body. Love between men and women is a gift of God, which should not be exploited:\n\nNowadays Christianity of the past is often criticized as having been opposed to the body; and it is quite true that tendencies of this sort have always existed. \"... but ... Eros, reduced to pure \"sex\", has become a commodity, a mere \"thing\" to be bought and sold, or rather, man himself becomes a commodity. This is hardly man's great \"yes\" to the body. On the contrary, he now considers his body and his sexuality as the purely material part of himself, to be used and exploited at will.\n\nWhile condemning a view of sexuality as purely for personal enjoyment and selfish desire, Benedict also condemns a view of sex as purely for procreation. Unlike previous writings of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the document of Pope Benedict does not contain condemnations, indicating a more pastoral approach of the new Pope. At the same time, his discussion of love is implicitly within the confines of conjugal relationships.\n\nIn his second letter, \"Spe Salvi\", Benedict XVI explains the concept of faith-based hope in the New Testament and the early Church. Benedict suggests a redirection of often short-sighted hopes. Real hope must be based on faith in God. God is love. Christ, the most manifest expression of God's love, dies on the cross not to end slavery, miseries or other temporal problems.\n\nBenedict argues in his letter against two mistaken notions of hope: 1.) Christians who may have focused their hopes too much on their own eternal salvation, and 2.) those who have placed their hope exclusively on science, rationality, freedom and justice for all, thus excluding any notion of God and eternity. Christians find lasting hope by finding their loving God, and this has real consequences for everyday life:\n\nBenedict refers to St. Paul, who wrote from prison \"Paul is sending the slave back to the master from whom he had fled, not ordering but asking: 'I appeal to you for my child ... whose father I have become in my imprisonment ... I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart ... perhaps this is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back for ever, no longer as a slave but more than a slave, as a beloved brother'\" (Philem 10–16). He refers then to the Letter to the Hebrews, which says that Christians here on earth do not have a permanent homeland, but seek one which lies in the future (cf. Heb 11:13–16; Phil 3:20).\n\nTo Benedict, this does not mean for one moment that they lived only for the future: present society is recognized by Christians as an exile; they belong to a new society which is the goal of their common pilgrimage and which is anticipated in the course of that pilgrimage. A Christian has a present and future, because of the hope for Jesus Christ, which is life changing. All serious and upright human conduct is hope in action. This hope gives a realistic perspective to understanding suffering and helping others: We can try to limit suffering, to fight against it, but we cannot eliminate it. It is when we attempt to avoid suffering by withdrawing from anything that might involve hurt, when we try to spare ourselves the effort and pain of pursuing truth, love, and goodness, that we drift into a life of emptiness, in which there may be almost no pain, but the dark sensation of meaninglessness and abandonment is all the greater.\n\nBenedict believes that not by sidestepping or fleeing from suffering are we healed, but rather by our capacity for accepting it, maturing through it and finding meaning through union with Christ, who suffered with infinite love.\n\nIn a special letter on the Eucharist and the Church, Benedict describes the Eucharist, causal principle of the Church.\n\nHe opines that the Church was founded by Christ in the sacrifice of the Cross. At the same time, he describes the Church as his Bride and his body. This concept, the Church as the mystical body of Christ, goes back to St. Paul and has been subject to many conversations by The Fathers of the Church but also more recently at Vatican II.\n\nA contemplative gaze \"upon him whom they have pierced\" (Jn 19:37) leads us to reflect on the causal connection between Christ's sacrifice, the Eucharist and the Church. The Church \"draws her life from the Eucharist\" (31). Since the Eucharist makes present Christ's redeeming sacrifice, we must start by acknowledging that \"there is a causal influence of the Eucharist at the Church's very origins.\" The Eucharist is Christ who gives himself to us and continually builds us up as his body. Hence, in the striking interplay between the Eucharist which builds up the Church, and the Church herself which \"makes\" the Eucharist, the primary causality is expressed in the first formula: the Church is able to celebrate and adore the mystery of Christ present in the Eucharist precisely because Christ first gave himself to her in the sacrifice of the Cross. The Church's ability to \"make\" the Eucharist is completely rooted in Christ's self-gift to her.\n\nWhat does this mean? According to Benedict, the Eucharist which is union with Christ has a profound impact on our social relations. Because \"union with Christ is also union with all those to whom he gives himself. I cannot possess Christ just for myself; I can belong to him only in union with all those who have become, or who will become, his own.\"\n\nIn an address to the faculty at the University of Regensburg, Germany, Benedict discussed the preconditions for an effective dialogue with Islam and other cultures. This requires a review of theology and science. The Pope considers the modern concept of science too narrow in the long run, because it allows the determination of \"certainty\" only from the interplay of mathematical and empirical elements. \"Anything that would claim to be science must be measured against this criterion. Hence the human sciences, such as history, psychology, sociology and philosophy, attempt to conform themselves to this canon of science\".\n\nThis limited view of scientific method excludes the question of God, making it appear an unscientific or pre-scientific question. For philosophy and, albeit in a different way, for theology, listening to the great experiences and insights of the religious traditions of humanity, and those of the Christian faith in particular, is a source of knowledge, and to ignore it would be an unacceptable restriction of our listening and responding.\n\nBenedict acknowledges \"unreservedly\" the many positive aspects of modern science, and considers the quest for truth as essential to the Christian spirit, but he favours a broadening our narrow concept of reason and its application to include philosophical and theological experiences, not only as an aim in itself but so we may enter as a culture the dialogue with the other religions and cultures from a broader perspective:\n\nThis objective of Pope Benedict XVI has so far not been widely reviewed.\n\nRatzinger became known as a theologian through his position at the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, which he headed until his election to the Papacy. It has been frequently overlooked that he opened up his congregation to theological and historical research, by providing greater access to the Archive of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. On January 22, 1998, the Ratzinger congregation made publicly available all Inquisition archive documents dated before and up to the death of Pope Leo XIII in 1903.\n\nIn absence of a large body of papal teachings of Benedict XVI, the Ratzinger theology is often cited. While there are likely to be many similarities between the teachings of Benedict and Ratzinger, the theology of Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger has been somewhat unusual because of his \"watchdog\" office, which required him to address a larger variety of issues. Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger was much on his own, since he had only a small staff at the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith.\n\nYoung Ratzinger was something of a \"rebel\", who early on discarded the Thomism of his professors and much of the dominant traditional school theology. He viewed the early proposals for Vatican II \"as narrow, stiff and insufficiently pastoral.\" Only in the seventies, Ratzinger felt that he had finally developed his own theological view.\n\nThis \"own theological view\" has raised questions by critical liberal theologians, like Hans Küng and Karl Rahner.\n\nKarl Rahner raises these issues. Does the Prefect defend \"only\" the official Magisterium, Church teachings within the framework of Canon Law? If so, he is clearly speaking for the Church and not on his own. Does he in so-called gray areas of theology, \"questiones disputatae,\" where the Magisterium has not ruled, impose his theological view on others?\n\nRatzinger's own theological view began with an open rebellion against powerful established Thomist theology.\n\nIt all began with the \"drama of my dissertation\", as he called it, a seemingly unimportant postdoctoral degree on Bonaventure, which he was almost denied because of serious reservations of some conservative professors with his interpretation of divine revelation.\nRatzinger held that God reveals and revealed himself in history and throughout history and not just once to the authors of the Bible. He further held that the static bible-based concept of divine revelation was nonexistent in the thirteenth century. Ratzinger contradicted traditional Catholic theology, which led to a bitter fight. Ratzinger passed after hours of heated debate, just barely. But he had established himself as an independent thinker.\n\nHis theology on revelation was discussed during Second Vatican Council. In Rome he continued the view that revelation, meaning God communicates with us, is always more than can be expressed in purely human words. God’s revelation is not a big cold stone fallen from heaven many years ago, a stone which only needs to be dissected and analyzed. God has a living message to us.\n\nIn his theology of covenant, Benedict provides a unified interpretation of Scripture centered on the person and work of Jesus, with implications ranging from the Eucharist to the proper understanding of ecumenism. Benedict holds that Christology must be rooted the covenantal theology of the New Testament, which is grounded in the unity of the entire Bible. In this covenantal theology, the Abrahamic covenant, as fulfilled by the new covenant, is seen as fundamental and enduring, whereas the Mosaic covenant is intervening (Rom. 5:20). The covenantal promises given to Abraham guarantee the continuity of salvation history, from the patriarchs to Jesus and the Church, which is open to Jews and Gentiles alike. The Last Supper served to seal the new covenant, and the Eucharist is an ongoing reenactment of this covenant renewal. Following the Letter to the Hebrews, Benedict describes Jesus death, along with the Eucharist, in which the blood of Jesus is offered to the Father, as the perfect realization of the Day of Atonement (cf. Heb. 9:11–14, 24–26).\n\nTo comprehend God's ongoing revelation is why the Church is important at all ages. Benedict's view of the church, ecclesiology places much emphasis on the Catholic Church and its institutions, as the instrument by which God's message manifests itself on Earth: a view of the Church's universal worldwide role which tends to resist local pressure to submit to external social trends in specific countries or cultures.\n\nAs such, like all his predecessors, he does not view the search for moral truth as a dialectic and incremental process, arguing that essential matters of faith and morals are universally true and therefore must be determined at the universal level: \"the universal church ... takes precedence, ontologically and temporally, over the individual local churches. \" Accordingly, too, he was often seen as a key player in the centralization of the hierarchy under John Paul II.\n\nThe ongoing revelation of God is also the reason why Pope Benedict XVI puts so much emphasis on sacred liturgy, and why he abhorred often tasteless experiments with it. To him the crisis of the Church is a crisis of the liturgy, in which clergy and community too often backslap and celebrate each other and themselves, almost as if God did not exist.\n\nTo Pope Benedict XVI, liturgy means openness to God, community of faith, worldwide unity with the Church and its history; it means “celebrating the mystery of the living Christ”. To get there, Ratzinger calls for an almost revolution like liturgical movement to rekindle the spirit of Vatican II. Not surprisingly at one of the first masses of his pontificate he urged Catholics to show a greater devotion to the \"Eucharistic Jesus. \"\n\nThis Ratzinger quote on the liturgical reform of the council is symbolic for his interpretation of Vatican II. He has spoken only positively about the Vatican II council, but differentiated between the council and a spirit of the council, which has nothing in common with its texts and resolutions. As noted above, believes that essential elements of the Council, such as the spirit if liturgy still need to materialize and has shown no evidence that he intends to reverse or limit the decisions of that council. He has, however, stated in books and interviews that Vatican II did not represent a radical break; a new age, but a more pastoral reformulation of old truths earlier doctrine, but applied the teachings of the Apostles and church fathers to the contemporary world. Indeed, the council documents quoted 205 times the allegedly conservative Pope Pius XII more than any other person. Benedict has also spoken out against some post-conciliar innovations, especially liturgical novelties, which forget their purpose, and he continues to remind the faithful that the Council did not entirely do away with the former rite and many of its noble features.\n\nIn the pre-conclave mass to the assembled cardinals in St. Peter's Basilica, he warned, \"We are moving toward a dictatorship of relativism which does not recognize anything as definitive and has as its highest value one's own ego and one's own desires.\"\n\nIn his Christmas address to the Roman Curia, he asked that Council be interpreted not with the \"hermeneutic of discontinuity and rupture\" but with the \"hermeneutic of reform, of renewal in the continuity of the one subject-Church which the Lord has given to us.\" \n\nPope John Paul II and Benedict strongly opposed liberation theology as a political movement. Benedict has acknowledged the good aspects of charismatic Catholicism while at the same time \"providing some cautions.\"\n\nBenedict is a theologian in an orthodox vein. His theology aims at a synthesis of Thomism, philosophical personalism (with such proponents as Martin Buber, John Paul II—tempered however by phenomenology, and, more recently, Leon Kass) and the 'Nouvelle Théologie' of Henri de Lubac and Hans Urs von Balthasar. This is a sharp contrast with the school of thought, until recently ascendant in the theological academy of Europe and the United States, represented by Karl Rahner, Hans Küng, and Edward Schillebeeckx.\n\nCardinal Ratzinger's approach to ecumenical dialogue was fundamentally centered on his theology of covenant, as described in his work \"Many Religions—One Covenant: Israel, the Church, and the World\" (1999). In 2000, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a document entitled \"Dominus Iesus\", which created a lot of controversy. Some religious groups took offense to the document because it allegedly stated that \"only in the Catholic Church is the eternal salvation. \" However this statement appears nowhere in the document. The document condemned \"relativistic theories\" of religious pluralism and described other faiths as \"gravely deficient\" in the means of salvation. The document was primarily aimed at reining in liberal Catholic theologians like Jacques Dupuis, who argued that other religions could contain God-given means of salvation not found in the Church of Christ, but it offended many religious leaders. Jewish religious leaders boycotted several interfaith meetings in protest.\n\nA remarkable but unappreciated aspect of \"Dominus Iesus\" can be found in the official Latin text, in which the famous \"filioque\" clause (\"and the Son\") is quietly omitted. The changed Latin sentence reads \"Et in Spiritum Sanctum (…), qui ex Patre procedit\" (\"and in the Holy Spirit (…), who proceeds from the Father\") instead of \"qui ex Patre Filioque procedit\" (\"who proceeds from the Father and the Son\"). The filioque clause has been a source of conflict between Roman Catholic and Orthodox Church for about one thousand years. Leaving it out may be seen as Ratzinger's attempt to reach a hand across the theological/historical chasm separating Eastern and Western Churches. \"Dominus Iesus\" also went on to state that any church outside of the Catholic Church lacks \"the fullness of the means of salvation\", stating that the Catholic Church is the one true church. In 2007, the Pope approved a document which stated that Orthodox churches were defective because they did not recognize the primacy of the Pope, and that other Christian denominations were not true churches because they lacked apostolic succession; a move which sparked criticism from Orthodox and Protestant denominations.\n\nRatzinger's election as pope was met with enthusiasm from many prominent Anglicans. The Archbishop of Canterbury described Ratzinger as \"a theologian of great stature, who has written some profound reflections on the nature of God and the church\". Scotland's senior Anglican Bishop Idris Jones also had a positive view of the new pope and stated \"I offer the warmest of welcomes to the new Pope…under his leadership the church will continue to work for the poor and underprivileged in the world. \" However, an Anglican-council of bishops rejected the Pope's view of Catholic authority which was mirrored by Benedict's refusal to alter the Catholic position on refusing to recognise the Church of England.\n\nEven before becoming pope, Benedict advocated a \"special relationship\" between the Roman Church and the Jewish faith. Some Jewish organisations, such as the Anti-Defamation League, the American Jewish Committee, the Union of Reform Judaism, and the Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Boston, believe Ratzinger was responsible for Pope John Paul II's attempts to improve Jewish-Catholic ties. However, Pope Benedict did create some controversy when he said that the Church is waiting for the moment when Jews will \"say yes to Christ.\" He went on to say, \"We believe that. The fact remains, however, that our Christian conviction is that Christ is also the Messiah of Israel.\"\n\nPope Benedict XVI called for Christians \"to open their arms and hearts\" to Muslim immigrants and \"to dialogue\" with them on religious issues. The Pope also called on peaceful talk with Muslims and was against the War in Iraq and gravely concerned about events around the Middle East.\n\nThough his advent was congratulated by Buddhist leaders around the world, critics remembered that in March 1997 Cardinal Ratzinger predicted that Buddhism would, over the coming century, replace Marxism as the main \"enemy\" of the Catholic Church. Some also criticized him for calling Buddhism an \"autoerotic spirituality\" that offered \"transcendence without imposing concrete religious obligations\", though that might be a mistranslation from the French \"auto-erotisme\", which more properly translates to self-absorption, or narcissism. Also the quote did not address Buddhism as such, but rather about how Buddhism \"appears\" to those Europeans who are using it to obtain some type of self-satisfying spiritual experience.\n\nBefore becoming Pope, Cardinal Ratzinger was a well-known and quite controversial figure inside and outside the Catholic Church. This is due in part from the perception among those who felt the Vatican II reforms did not go far enough that Ratzinger is a conservative. To this view, Ratzinger's theology is based on his early works, staunch Catholicism and ancient Tradition. According to this often held view, Benedict has made clear that he intends to preserve the Church doctrine and not give in to modern pressures for change to fundamental dogma and teaching on such issues as birth control, abortion, and homosexuality. It is also noted, that the Pope has a strong opposition to moral relativism, which he sees as producing views ranging \"from one extreme to the other: from Marxism to liberalism, even to libertinism; from collectivism to radical individualism; from atheism to a vague religious mysticism; from agnosticism to syncretism, and so forth.\"\n\nBenedict XVI's views appear to be similar to those of his predecessor, Pope John Paul II, in maintaining the traditional positions on birth control, abortion, and homosexuality and promoting Catholic social teaching. In his biography journalist John L Allen, Jr. portrayed Cardinal Ratzinger as a figure that sometimes expressed more conservative views than Pope John Paul II, during the time he was Pope. As Pope Benedict was noted for being less outspoken than predicted. Benedict has criticized genetic manipulation and the cloning of human embryos. He has said that even \"good goals\" cannot justify such means. Benedict, in his most recent book, indicated that evolution, although more than a theory, was still not and as a scientific theory could not be definitively proven and that in any case, the creation and evolution of the universe and its matter could not comprehensively be explained by empirical, existential, logical methods of science – necessitating other disciplines like philosophy and theology to fill in where science could not be wholly applied or where questions were not solveable by, or in the realm of, the sciences. \n\nAlthough teaching opposition to death penalty, he has stated that there may be among Catholics a \"legitimate diversity of opinion\" \n\nHe has also defended the traditional Church position on the indissolubility of marriage and thus rejected that the divorced be allowed to remarry during their spouses' lifetime. In a 1994 letter to the bishops he said that those who do so are not in a state to receive communion.\n\nRatzinger has maintained that the Catholic Church does not possess the authority to ordain women to the priestly sacramental ministry (the Vatican, and the Catholic Church by extension, have long held that this is shown by Jesus's choosing only men as apostles, saying this was the constant practice and consistent teaching of the Church).\n\nDuring the 1980s, as prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, he criticized liberation theologians and twice silenced proponent Leonardo Boff.\n\nIn \"The Spirit of the Liturgy\" in 2000, Ratzinger attacked Rock and Roll as \"the expression of elemental passions\" and described some rock concerts as becoming \"a form of worship … in opposition to Christian worship. \" However, he is a great lover of classical and folk music, and included much new music into his recent pastoral visit to Cologne.\n\nFor several decades, questions have been raised, especially in the USA and Western Europe, regarding the access of gays to Catholic services as an indication of their non-discrimination. The Church under Pope John Paul II and Cardinal Ratzinger took the position based on the traditional Magisterium of the Catholic Church, that while confirming respect for individuals, and showing \"great respect for these people who also suffer\", gay wedding services are not to be tolerated in the church and that Church facilities cannot be made available for them.\n\nLGBT rights advocates widely criticized his 1986 letter to the Bishops of the Church, On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, in which he stated that \"although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder.\" However, then Cardinal Ratzinger also said: \"It is deplorable that homosexual persons have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in action. Such treatment deserves condemnation from the Church's pastors wherever it occurs.\"\n\nIn a separate letter dated September 30, 1985, Ratzinger reprimanded Seattle Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen for his unorthodox views on women, homosexuals, and doctrinal issues, stating, \"The Archdiocese should withdraw all support from any group, which does not unequivocally accept the teaching of the Magisterium concerning the intrinsic evil of homosexual activity. \" Archbishop Hunthausen was temporarily relieved of his authority.\n\nThe Pontiff also holds the traditional Catholic views on same-sex marriage; in 2004 he said to the Italian newspaper \"La Repubblica\" \"Above all, we must have great respect for these people who also suffer and who want to find their own way of correct living (also including those who wish to try to be gay and celibate). On the other hand, to create a legal form of a kind of homosexual marriage, in reality, does not help these people.\" The Pope later described gay marriage as \"pseudo-matrimony\" and declared that \"The various forms of the dissolution of matrimony today, like free unions, trial marriages…by people of the same sex, are rather expressions of an anarchic freedom that wrongly passes for true freedom of man.\"\n\nBenedict XVI is also against gay couples adopting children; he wrote a Vatican paper concerned with the adoption of children into same-sex couples. \"Allowing children to be adopted by persons living in such unions would actually mean doing violence to these children, in the sense that their condition of dependency would be used to place them in an environment that is not conducive to their full human development. \"\n\nIn 1988 a debate within the Catholic Church over the use of condoms to prevent AIDS sparked controversy again. The Church in 1968 had already stated in Humanae Vitae that chemical and barrier methods of contraception went against Church teachings. The debate was over the different issue of whether or not condoms could be used, not as contraceptives, but as a means of preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. In 1987, the U. S. Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a document suggesting that education on the use of condoms could be an acceptable part of an anti-AIDS program.\n\nIn response, Cardinal Ratzinger stated that such an approach \"would result in at least the facilitation of evil\" – not merely its toleration. For the full text of the letter, see: (See also Karol Wojtyla's-the future Pope John Paul II's- \"Love and Responsibility\"). Critics argue that Ratzinger's approach would lead to increases in the frequency of HIV/AIDS infections, while many Catholics dispute this and emphasize the value of faithful relationships or chastity, as it is scientifically impossible to contract the disorder without having sex with an infected person, unless via some other means such as a blood transfusion or sharing a needle.\n\nIn the United States, during the 2004 presidential campaign, Cardinal Ratzinger stated that voters would be \"cooperating in evil\" if they voted for a political candidate precisely because of the candidate’s permissive stand on legalized abortion or euthanasia. He further stated, however, that voting for these candidates for other reasons of commensurate gravity in spite of their stand concerning abortion/euthanasia was justifiable in principle. Ratzinger generated further controversy by supporting the denial of Holy Communion to these politicians. He did add, however, that bishops should only withhold communion after meeting with, teaching and warning politicians first.\n\nAlthough not a vegetarian, the new Pope has spoken about the exploitation of all beings, particularly of farmed animals. When he was asked about cruelty to animals in a 2002 interview, he said, \"That is a very serious question. At any rate, we can see that they are given into our care, that we cannot just do whatever we want with them. Animals, too, are God's creatures… Certainly, a sort of industrial use of creatures, so that geese are fed in such a way as to produce as large a liver as possible, or hens live so packed together that they become just caricatures of birds, this degrading of living creatures to a commodity seems to me in fact to contradict the relationship of mutuality that comes across in the Bible.\" Cardinal Ratzinger was echoing official church teachings laid out in the Catholic Catechism, which states clearly that “\"Animals are God’s creatures. He surrounds them with His providential care. By their mere existence they bless Him and give Him glory. Thus men owe them kindness. We should recall the gentleness with which saints like St. Francis of Assisi or St. Philip Neri treated animals... It is contrary to human dignity to cause animals to suffer or die needlessly.\"\n\n\"There were not sufficient reasons to unleash a war against Iraq,\" he said on a press conference in 2003. \"To say nothing of the fact that, given the new weapons that make possible destructions that go beyond the combatant groups, today we should be asking ourselves if it is still licit to admit the very existence of a 'just war'.\n\nAccording to CNN, Ratzinger has condemned Communism by calling the Soviet Union \"a shame of our time\", and unbridled capitalism by saying, \"We must coordinate the free market with the sense of responsibility of one towards the other.\" He has repeatedly criticized the materialization of life and the \"greed society\".\n\nIn the spring of 2005 Pope Benedict opposed a referendum in Italy, which aimed at liberalising a restrictive law about artificial insemination and embryonic stem cell research. This was the first direct intervention in Italian politics since the collapse of the Democrazia Cristiana party. The most active person inside the Church was Cardinal Camillo Ruini, but Benedict XVI gave him clear support.\n\nParticular controversy was stirred up by the Italian clergy's strategy of restraining Italians from voting. Since the referendum had been called on a summer weekend, turn out was expected to be low. Not voting would have helped invalidate the referendum, which needed to reach a quorum of 50% of voters, whereas voting \"No\" (i. e. to maintain the current legislation) might have helped reaching it, making the referendum valid and therefore actually helping the \"Yes\" advocates. Critics of this tactic argue that this misplaced non-voters into the \"No\" front, though the same could be said the other way around. It was also alleged that it hampered the secrecy of the vote.\n\nA short (three-sentence) letter from Cardinal Ratzinger to German writer Gabriele Kuby dated March 7, 2003 (quoted here in unofficial English translation) thanked her for sending him a copy of her \"informative\" book. \"It is good that you enlighten people about Harry Potter, because these are subtle seductions which act imperceptibly and thereby deeply, and dissolve Christianity in the soul before it can grow properly. \" Kuby's book, \"Harry Potter; Gut oder böse?\" (\"Harry Potter; Good or evil?\", ), was about the literary phenomenon of Harry Potter, and sought to prove that the Harry Potter books would \"corrupt\" the religious spirit of young generations and to refute the rumours that Pope John Paul II liked the series. Kuby later asked permission to refer to this comment, which was given.\n\nMuch was made of this in some media circles after the letter was posted on the web in 2005. Catholic commentators noted that it was not binding on Catholics, and expressed various opinions on Harry Potter.\n\nIn 1990 Ratzinger commented on the Galileo affair, and quoted philosopher Paul Feyerabend as saying that the Church's verdict against Galileo had been \"rational and just\". Two years later, in 1992, Pope John Paul II expressed regret for how the Galileo affair was handled, and conceded that theologians of the time erred with their understanding that literal interpretation of scripture imposes physical understanding of the natural world. In January 2008 Ratzinger cancelled a visit to La Sapienza University in Rome, following a protest letter signed by sixty-seven academics which said he condoned the 1633 trial and conviction of Galileo for heresy.\n"}
{"id": "8380060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380060", "title": "Varsha Usgaonkar", "text": "Varsha Usgaonkar\n\nVarsha Usgaonkar (born 28 February 1968) is an Indian film actress from Goa, who has worked in various Bollywood and Marathi movies as the leading lady. During the 1990s, she was the most popular actress in Marathi cinema.\n\nVarsha Usgaonkar first shot to fame in 1982 as the lead heroine in the super-hit Marathi stage play \"Brahmachari\".\nSubsequently, she quickly rose to one of the top heroines in the Marathi film industry with super-hits such as \"Gammat Jammat\", \"Hamal De Dhamal\", \"Saglikade Bombabomb\", \"Sawat Majhi Ladki\", \"Shejari Shejari\", \"Ek Hota Vidushak\", \"Lapandaav\", \"Aflatoon\" and others. She has also starred as the lead actress in the Bollywood films \"Ghar Aaya Mera Pardesi\" and \"Pathreela Raasta\". In 2005, she appeared in the Bollywood films \"\" and \"Mr Ya Miss\" as a supporting actress. In the Faisal Saif-directed controversial Hindi feature film, \"Jigyaasa\", she played mother to Hrishitaa Bhatt. Usgaonkar started her television career in the 1988 playing role of Uttara, wife of Abhimanyu and mother of Parikshit, (the future of the Bharat Dynasty TV serial \"Mahabharata\").The role lead her to many Hindi movies offers and most of them failed to create a box office success. She also played role of Roopmati (Snake Queen) in 1994 TV serial \"Chandrakanta\". She has appeared in the Marathi shows \"Aakash Zep\" and \"Eka Mekansathi\", and she has also acted in the Hindi television serials \"Alvida Darling\", \"Tanha\" and \"Anhonee\".\n\nOne of her most prominent performance is from the TV Serial \"Jhansi Ki Rani\" in the 1990s on Doordarshan, where she played the lead character of Rani Lakshmibai.\n\nUsgaonkar has also sung in a Konkani music album \"Roop Tujem Laita Pixem\", with Ulhas Buyao.\n\nVarsha is a Konkani. She is the daughter of Goa's former Deputy Speaker A. K. S. Usgaonkar. She has two sisters, Dr. Mrs. Tosha Kurade and Mrs. Manisha Tarcar. Usgaonkar married in March 2000 to Ajay Sharma, son of Indian film music director Ravishankar Sharma or Bombay Ravi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47709362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47709362", "title": "Wahi Annuar", "text": "Wahi Annuar\n\nWahi Annuar was a Malayan communist. He took to the forests at the beginning of the Malayan emergency. Was a leader in the MRLA 10th Malay Regiment. However, he surrendered to the British in February 1950.\n"}
{"id": "41787795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41787795", "title": "Will of Henry VIII of England", "text": "Will of Henry VIII of England\n\nThe will of Henry VIII of England was a significant constitutional document, or set of contested documents created in the 1530s and 1540s, and affecting English and Scottish politics for the rest of the 16th century. In conjunction with legislation passed by the English Parliament, it was supposed to have a regulative effect in deciding the succession to the three following monarchs of the House of Tudor, the three legitimate and illegitimate children, (the Third Succession Act expressly recognised the illegitimacy of Henry's daughters) of King Henry VIII of England. Its actual legal and constitutional status was much debated; and arguably the succession to Elizabeth I did not respect Henry's wishes.\n\nHenry VIII made a final revision to his last will and testament on 30 December 1546. It was signed using the \"dry stamp\", a device in use since 1545, and under the control of Anthony Denny and John Gates. It confirmed the line of succession as Edward, Mary and Elizabeth; following them, the Grey and Suffolk families. The will was read, stamped and sealed on 27 January 1547, when the dying king was past speech. He died within hours, the next day.\n\nThe document still exists, but this fact was not generally known or accepted by the 1560s, when some believed it was lost, or had been destroyed.\n\nThe will appointed 16 executors. This body had little impact in the short term, because its powers were given to a smaller group. It was officially (with one other) the council of Edward VI of England until 12 March 1547, after which Protector Somerset nominated the council. The effective end of the Somerset Protectorate came in early 1550. Those executors who were still alive (13 of the original 16, after Browne, Denny and then Wriothesley had died) had a leading constitutional role, in theory from 13 October 1549.\n\nThe executors comprised:\n\nPollard wrote that the traditional view, that the balance of the group of executors on the religious question was deliberately poised to create an equilibrium, is mistaken: the exclusion of Stephen Gardiner tipped the balance to the evangelical reformers. MacCulloch considers that in 1550, after the fall of Somerset, there was a balance, but that the evangelicals manoeuvred to a position of superiority.\n\nThe constitutional standing of Henry VIII's last will depended on the Third Succession Act that received the royal assent in 1544. Section VI of the act provides that the line of succession, if not continued by the king's children by his marriages, should be regulated by the contents of the king's last will. The wording is conditional on the will being signed by the king's hand. The issue of the \"dry stamp\" signature was brought up in the context of Anglo-Scottish diplomacy, carried out by Robert Melville on behalf of Mary, Queen of Scots, in 1567. Since the provisions of the will disadvantaged all the claimants of the House of Stuart, the point remained important.\n\n"}
{"id": "38965964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38965964", "title": "William S. Yellow Robe Jr.", "text": "William S. Yellow Robe Jr.\n\nWilliam S. Yellow Robe Jr. (born February 4, 1960) is an Assiniboine actor, author, director, educator, playwright, and poet.\n\nA member of the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation, Yellow Robe was raised by his mother on the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in Montana. He studied writing and performing arts at the University of Montana.\n\nYellow Robe's works have been performed in venues across the United States, including the Penumbra Theatre Company in St. Paul; the Public Theater in New York; the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, RI; and the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian in Washington, D.C. He is a member of Penumbra, as well as the Ensemble Studio Theater, Amerinda, Inc., and the advisory board for Red Eagle Soaring Theater Company for Native youth.\nYellow Robe has also taught at the Institute of American Indian Arts, Brown University, and the University of Maine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10838528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10838528", "title": "William Wing Loring", "text": "William Wing Loring\n\nWilliam Wing Loring (December 4, 1818 – December 30, 1886) was an American soldier who served in the armies of the United States, the Confederacy, and Egypt.\n\nWilliam was born in Wilmington, North Carolina, to Reuben and Hannah Loring. He was a fifth great grandson of New England pioneer Deacon Thomas Loring. When he was four, his family moved to Saint Augustine, Florida, where, at the young age of fourteen, he began a military career that spanned fifty years. As a fourteen-year-old, Loring joined the Florida Militia and gained his first combat experience fighting the Seminole Indians in minor skirmishes that would culminate in the Seminole Wars. When he was seventeen, he ran away to fight in the Texas War for Independence, but was soon retrieved by his father and taken home. For the next few years he would fight in the second Seminole War and end up being promoted to second lieutenant. In 1837, Loring was sent to Alexandria Boarding School in Alexandria, Virginia, completing his secondary education. He attended Georgetown University from 1839 to 1840 and then went on to study law, and was admitted to the Florida bar in 1842. In 1843, he was elected to the Florida House of Representatives where he served from 1843 to 1845. In 1845 he ran unsuccessfully for the Florida Senate.\n\nIn 1846, Loring joined a newly formed regiment, the Regiment of Mounted Rifles, originally created to protect the Oregon Territory. He was promoted to major even before the regiment saw battle. Shortly thereafter the Mounted Rifles were sent to Mexico to fight in the Mexican-American war. Loring's regiment saw action in most of the battles of the war and he was wounded three times. While leading the charge into Mexico City, Loring's arm was shattered by a Mexican bullet, and he would later have it amputated. He received two brevets for bravery, one to lieutenant colonel, and another to colonel.\n\nIn 1849, during the California gold rush, Loring was ordered to take command of the Oregon Territory and led a train of 600 mule teams 2,500 miles from Missouri to Oregon. He was in command of the Oregon Territory for two years and was then transferred to being commander of the forts of the frontier, such forts as Fort Ewell, Fort McIntosh, and Fort Union. During some five years he engaged in many skirmishes with the Indians, most notably with the Comanches, Apaches, and Kiowas. Loring was promoted to colonel at the age of 38 in December 1856, the youngest in the army.\n\nHe left the United States and traveled to Europe in May 1859. While there, he, like many of his fellow American officers, studied the military tactics that had been invented in the recent Crimean War. Before he returned home, Loring would visit Great Britain, France, Sweden, Prussia, Switzerland, Austria-Hungary, Italy, Russia, Turkey, and Egypt.\n\nWhen the Civil War erupted, Loring sided with the South. In a conference in New Mexico, just before he left to defend his homeland, Loring told his officers, \"The South is my home, and I am going to throw up my commission and shall join the Southern Army, and each of you can do as you think best.\" He resigned from the U.S. Army on May 13, 1861. Upon offering his services to the Confederacy, Loring was promptly commissioned a brigadier general and given command of the Army of the Northwest, participating in the Western Virginia Campaign in the fall of 1861. His first assignment was to quickly collect and rally the shattered remnants of Robert S. Garnett's force following its defeat at the Battle of Rich Mountain, and drill them in preparation for the defense of western Virginia against Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan's invasion from Ohio. \n\nAfter organizing an army of roughly 11,700 at Monterey, Virginia, Loring detached two brigades under Henry R. Jackson and William B. Taliaferro to the north, to fortify Frank Mountain, and defend the approach from Cheat Mountain. Loring moved the rest of his army, the brigades of S.R. Anderson, Daniel S. Donelson, and William Gilham, south to Huntersville. Four days after his arrival at Huntersville, Loring was joined by colonel Robert E. Lee, who had been sent by Richmond to western Virgina with the diplomatic role of inspecting and consulting. Loring, a Mexican War veteran who outranked Lee at the time, saw Lee as Richmond's attempt to look over his shoulder, and grew resentful of his presence. Loring and Lee moved the southern portion of their army to Valley Mountain, near Mace, and down the Tygart Valley to the Battle of Cheat Mountain in September 1861. Loring soon acquired the nickname, \"Old Blizzards\" for his battle cry, \"Give them blizzards, boys! Give them blizzards!\" Following that debacle, they moved south into Greenbrier County to reenforce the troops of the Kanawha Division under former Virginia governors John B. Floyd and Henry Alexander Wise, then-at Sewell Mountain and Meadow Bluff. Lee was re-called back to Richmond in late October. Loring and the men remained for a short period before abandoning the mountainous region too, marching into, and down the Shenandoah Valley to join Stonewall Jackson at Winchester.\n\nLoring famously butted heads with superior officers, particularly with Stonewall Jackson. At the conclusion of the Romney Expedition in northwestern Virginia (now West Virginia) in January 1862, Jackson returned to his headquarters in Winchester while assigning Loring to stay and occupy the small, mountainous town. Unhappy with their assignment of holding a remote outpost in the dead of winter, Loring and his officers went over Jackson's head to Secretary of War Judah P. Benjamin, requesting that the division be withdrawn. Jackson complied with the order, then resigned in protest of Richmond's interference with his command; he withdrew his resignation under pressure from Governor John Letcher and his former commander, Joseph E. Johnston, and Loring was reassigned out of Jackson's command, and given command of the Department of Southwestern Virginia. In his five months in that role, Loring moved a force of 5,000 into the Kanawha Valley, ultimately occupying Charleston for a six week period. In mid-October, Loring was transferred to the West.\n\nBy November 1862, Loring was in Grenada, Mississippi, commanding a division in John C. Pemberton's Department of Mississippi and East Louisiana, another superior officer he had friction with. In early spring of 1863, he defended against the Yazoo Pass Expedition, before his division was ordered south to re-enforce Vicksburg. He was present at Pemberton's disastrous defeat at Champion Hill. Cut off from the rest of the army, most of his division then marched east to Jackson, Mississippi to join forces with Gen. Joseph E. Johnston for the impending siege. By the end of 1863, he was under the command of Lt. Gen. Leonidas Polk and defended east Mississippi from William T. Sherman during the Meridian Campaign of February 1864. Polk's relatively small force was then ordered to northwest Georgia to join Joe Johnston's Army of Tennessee, which was beginning to abandon its winter quarters in Dalton, Georgia to start the Atlanta Campaign. Polk's divisions, one commanded by Loring, arrived just in time to temporarily thwart a flanking maneuver by Union General James B. McPherson at the Battle of Resaca. Facing overwhelming numbers, Johnston's army was continuously flanked and forced to withdraw closer and closer to Atlanta.\n\nLoring temporarily took command of Polk's III corps when Polk was nearly cut in two by an artillery round and killed at Pine Mountain on June 14, 1864. He led the corps during the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain but was soon replaced on July 7, 1864 by Lt. Gen. Alexander P. Stewart. Loring returned to divisional command, fighting at the Battle of Peachtree Creek, and at Ezra Church, where he was wounded. Loring was out of action until after the fall of Atlanta. Upon returning he commanded his division in Stewart's corp of army now commanded by John Bell Hood, seeing combat at the Franklin on November 30, 1864, and Nashville in mid-December. In the last year of the war, the remnants of Hood's smashed forces returned east to participate in the Carolinas Campaign, seeing action at the Battle of Bentonville before being surrendered by Johnston at Durham, North Carolina a month later.\n\nAfter the Confederate defeat in the Civil War, Loring served for nine years in the army of Isma'il Pasha, the Khedive of Egypt. He joined about fifty Union and Confederate veterans who had been recommended to the Khedive by William Tecumseh Sherman. Loring began as Inspector General of the army, a position in which he suggested various ways to modernize the army. He was then placed in charge of the country’s coastal defenses, where he oversaw the erection of numerous fortifications. In 1875, he was promised the command of an Egyptian invasion of Abyssinia, however Ratib Pasha was given the assignment instead, and Loring was named chief of staff. Ratib Pasha was the ex-slave of the late Said Pawshar, the viceroy of Egypt, with negligible military qualifications; according to one of Loring's American compatriots, the freedman was \"shrivelled with lechery as the mummy is with age.\" The Egyptian-Ethiopian War ended in disaster at the Battle of Gura, and the Egyptians blamed the Americans for the disaster. When Ratib Pasha had urged remaining with the Gura fortress, Loring had taunted him and called him a coward until he consented to meeting the Ethiopian host in the open valley. While the rest of the Egyptian army returned home, they were ordered to remain in Massawa until further notice, where they endured the summer months, then spent the next two years enduring endless frustration and humiliation in Cairo. In 1878, partially due to finances, the American officers were dismissed. During his service to Egypt, Loring attained the rank of Fereek Pasha (Major General). After his return to the United States, he wrote a book about his Egyptian experiences, entitled \"A Confederate Soldier in Egypt\" (1884). Loring was also the posthumous co-author of \"The March of the Mounted Riflemen\" (1940).\n\nLoring returned to Florida where he unsuccessfully ran for the United States Senate against Charles W. Jones. He then moved to New York City, where he died. He is buried in Loring Park, behind Government House in downtown St. Augustine, Florida--where his presence was protested in 2018 by a group opposing Confederate memorials on public property.\n\nDuring World War II the Liberty ship was built in Panama City, Florida, and named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "3017501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017501", "title": "Yaron Svoray", "text": "Yaron Svoray\n\nYaron Svoray is an Israeli former police detective, author, and lecturer, most notable for his work against Neo-Nazis. Svoray infiltrated German Neo-Nazi groups, contributed to the arrest of Nazi war criminal Erich Priebke, and has also been active in searching for treasure looted by the Nazis.\nYaron Svoray was born in Israel. His father, Yehuda Soberski, born in Germany, immigrated to Mandatory Palestine with his family in 1938. The rest of the Soberski family perished in the Holocaust. His mother, Rachel Stern, was born in Egypt and moved with her family to Romania when she was a child. Most of her relatives died in the Holocaust and she fled to Mandate Palestine with some of her family in 1943. \n\nSvoray served in the Paratroopers Brigade of the Israel Defense Forces, and later worked as a detective in the Israeli Central Police Command.\n\nHe traveled to the USA where he earned his bachelor's and master's degree in media and communication, and worked as a journalist and a lecturer.\nIn the early 1990s, he went undercover inside the German Neo Nazi organization. He convinced them that he was an Australian neo-Nazi named Ron Furey who wanted to join the German Neo Nazis. Svoray's investigation brought him into contact with key neo-Nazi leaders. Furthermore, there was evidence that the German groups had managed to forge links with similar groups in South America and the United States. Svoray's book \"In Hitler’s Shadow\" was later adapted into a 1995 HBO special, \"The Infiltrator\", starring Oliver Platt as Svoray.\n\nWhile working undercover Svoray discovered that a Nazi war criminal Erich Priebke who participating in the massacre at the Ardeatine caves in Rome escaped to South America and lived there under an assumed name. The intelligence he gathered facilitated the capture and arrest of Priebke.\n\nIn 2007, Svoray found the dumping ground for the destroyed remains of Jewish property plundered during Kristallnacht. The dump, situated in a forest in Brandenburg, is the size of several football fields and thought to contain an extensive range of personal and ceremonial items, although only a small number of items have been dug up.\n\nIn 2013 Svoray and his team began a search for boxes full of gold dumped into the Stolpsee lake in Germany. This project is being filmed by \"National Geographic\".\n\nTo the general public Svoray is probably best known for his hunt of Nazi era diamonds. Svoray’s search was documented on the History Channel’s special \"Blood from a Stone\", which was based on the book, \"Blood from a Stone\", written by Yaron Svoray and published by the Tor Books division of St. Martin’s Press.\n\nSvoray's next book was \"Gods of Death\", published in 1997 by Simon & Schuster. The book is an account of Svoray's hunt for the source of and sense behind the snuff film which he witnessed while undercover inside the Neo Nazi movement. This time Svoray presented himself as a middleman first for buyers and then for dealers of snuff films, trying to fake his way into the highly secretive industry, at several points running foul of the Russian mob in Israel and various criminal organizations in the US and Southeast Asia.\n\n\n"}
