{"id": "26296222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26296222", "title": "Aleutian Islands", "text": "Aleutian Islands\n\nThe Aleutian Islands (; ; , literally \"Land of the Aleuts\", possibly from Chukchi \"aliat\", \"island\") are a chain of 14 large volcanic islands and 55 smaller ones belonging to both the U.S. state of Alaska and the Russian federal subject of Kamchatka Krai. They form part of the Aleutian Arc in the Northern Pacific Ocean, occupying an area of 6,821 sq mi (17,666 km) and extending about westward from the Alaska Peninsula toward the Kamchatka Peninsula in Russia, and mark a dividing line between the Bering Sea to the north and the Pacific Ocean to the south. Crossing longitude 180°, at which point east and west longitude end, the archipelago contains both the westernmost part of the United States by longitude (Amatignak Island) and the easternmost by longitude (Semisopochnoi Island). The westernmost U.S. island in real terms, however, is Attu Island, west of which runs the International Date Line. While nearly all the archipelago is part of Alaska and is usually considered as being in the \"Alaskan Bush\", at the extreme western end, the small, geologically related Commander Islands belong to Russia.\n\nThe islands, with their 57 volcanoes, form the northernmost part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. Physiographically, they are a distinct section of the larger Pacific Border province, which in turn is part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division.\n\nThese Islands are most known for the battles and skirmishes that occurred there during the Aleutian Islands Campaign of World War II. It was one of only two attacks on the United States during that war.\n\nMotion between the Kula Plate and the North American Plate along the margin of the Bering Shelf (in the Bering Sea north of the Aleutian arc) ended in the early Eocene. The Aleutian Basin, the ocean floor north of the Aleutian arc, is the remainder of the Kula Plate that got trapped when volcanism and subduction jumped south to its current location at 56 Ma.\nThe Aleutian island arc, then, formed in the Early Eocene (55–50 ) when the subduction of the Pacific Plate under the North American Plate began. The arc is made of separate blocks that have been rotated clockwise. The basement underlying the islands is made of three stratigraphic units: an Eocene layer of volcanic rock, an Oligocene—Miocene layer of marine sedimentary rock, and a Pliocene—Quaternary layer of sedimentary and igneous rock.\n\nThe islands, known before 1867 as the Catherine Archipelago, comprise five groups (east to west)\n\nAll five are located between 51° and 55° N latitude and 172° E and 163° W longitude. The largest islands in the Aleutians are Attu (the farthest from the mainland), and Unalaska, Umnak, and Unimak in the Fox Islands. The largest of those is Unimak Island, with an area of 1,571.41 mi² (4,069.9 km²), followed by Unalaska Island, the only other Aleutian Island with an area over 1,000 square miles (2,600 km²).\n\nThe axis of the archipelago near the mainland of Alaska has a southwest trend, but at Tanaga Island (about 178° W) its direction changes to the northwest. This change of direction corresponds to a curve in the line of volcanic fissures that have contributed their products to the building of the islands. Such curved chains are repeated about the Pacific Ocean in the Kuril Islands, the Japanese chain, and in the Philippines. All these island arcs are at the edge of the Pacific Plate and experience much seismic activity, but are still habitable; the Aleutians lie between the Pacific and North American tectonic plates. The general elevation is greatest in the eastern islands and least in the western. The island chain is a western continuation of the Aleutian Range on the mainland.\n\nThe great majority of the islands bear evident marks of volcanic origin, and there are numerous volcanic cones on the north side of the chain, some of them active; many of the islands, however, are not wholly volcanic, but contain crystalline or sedimentary rocks, and also amber and beds of lignite. The coasts are rocky and surf-worn, and the approaches are exceedingly dangerous, the land rising immediately from the coasts to steep, bold mountains.\n\nThese volcanic islands reach heights of . Makushin Volcano () located on Unalaska Island, is not quite visible from within the town of Unalaska, though the steam rising from its cone is visible on a (rare) clear day. Residents of Unalaska need only to climb one of the smaller hills in the area, such as Pyramid Peak or Mt. Newhall, to get a good look at the snow-covered cone. The volcanic Bogoslof and Fire Islands, which rose from the sea in 1796 and 1883 respectively, lie about west of Unalaska Bay.\n\nIn 1906, a new volcanic cone rose between the islets of Bogoslof and Grewingk, near Unalaska, followed by another in 1907. These cones were nearly demolished by an explosive eruption on September 1, 1907. Newly found information in 2017, the volcanic cone erupted sending ash and ice particles 30,000 feet (9000 m) in the air.\n\nThe climate of the islands is oceanic, with moderate and fairly uniform temperatures and heavy rainfall. Fogs are almost constant. Summer weather is much cooler than Southeast Alaska (around Sitka), but the winter temperature of the islands and of the Alaska Panhandle is very nearly the same. According to the Köppen climate classification system, the area southwest of on Unalaska Island have a \"Subpolar Oceanic Climate\" (type \"Cfc\" as are Reykjavík, Tórshavn, and the Auckland Islands), characterized by the coldest month averaging above , 1–3 months averaging above , and no significant precipitation difference between seasons. To the northeast of that point, the climate becomes \"Subarctic With Cool Summers And Year Around Rainfall\" (type \"Dfc\" as are Murmansk, St. Moritz, and Labrador City), where it is similar but colder, with the coldest month averaging below . During the winter the islands become the center for a semi-permanent low-pressure area called the Aleutian Low.\n\nThe mean annual temperature for Unalaska, the most populated island of the group, is about 38 °F (3 °C), being about 30 °F (−1 °C) in January and about 52 °F (11 °C) in August. The highest and lowest temperatures recorded on the islands are 78 °F (26 °C) and 5 °F (−15 °C) respectively. The average annual rainfall is about , and Unalaska, with about 250 rainy days per year, is said to be one of the rainiest places within the U.S.\n\nThe growing season lasts approximately 135 days, from early in May until late in September, but agriculture is limited to the raising of few vegetables. With the exception of some stunted willows, the vast majority of the chain is devoid of native trees. On some of the islands, such as Adak and Amaknak, there are a few coniferous trees growing, remnants of the Russian period. While tall trees grow in many cold climates, Aleutian conifers — some estimated to be two hundred years old — rarely reach a height of even , and many of them are still less than tall. This is because the islands, much like the Falklands and other islands of similar latitudes, experience such strong winds that taller trees are vulnerable to snapping off.\n\nInstead of trees, the islands are covered with a luxuriant, dense growth of herbage and shrubs, including crowberry, bluejoint, grasses, sedges, and many flowering plants. There are areas of peat bog near the coasts. Endemic plants include the endangered Aleutian shield fern.\n\nThe Aleutians are home to many large colonies of seabirds. Buldir Island has 21 breeding seabird species, including the Bering Sea-endemic red-legged kittiwake. Large seabird colonies are also present at Kiska, Gareloi, Semisopochnoi, Bogoslof, and others. The islands are also frequented by vagrant Asiatic birds, including the common rosefinch, Siberian rubythroat, bluethroat, lanceolated warbler, and the first North American record of the intermediate egret.\n\nThe habitats of the Aleutians are largely unspoiled, but wildlife is affected by competition from introduced species such as cattle, caribou, and foxes. Nearly all of the Aleutians are protected as part of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge and the Aleutian Islands Wilderness.\n\nObservations have identified sea otters as a keystone species along the coasts of many of the Aleutian Islands. Their presence encourages the growth of kelp forests, as the otters control sea urchin populations (as large populations of sea urchins can create urchin barrens by clearing away kelp stands).\n\nOn the less mountainous islands, the raising of sheep and reindeer was once believed to be practicable. There are bison on islands near Sand Point. Sheep raising seems to have died off with the advent of synthetic fibers, which lowered the value of wool. During the 1980s, there were some llama being raised on Unalaska. The current economy is primarily based on fishing, and the presence of U.S. military. The only crop is potato. Chickens are raised in barns under protection from the cold.\n\nIn addition to a partial air service and a ferry service, the Alaska Marine Highway passes through many of the U.S. islands.\n\nThe native people refer to themselves as Unangan, and are now generally known by most non-natives as the \"Aleut\". The Aleut language is one of the two main branches of the Eskimo–Aleut language family. This family is not known to be related to any others. The 2000 U.S. Census recorded a population of 8,162 on the islands, of whom 4,283 were living in the main settlement of Unalaska.\n\nBecause of the location of the islands, stretching like a broken bridge from Asia to America, many anthropologists believe they were a route of the first human occupants of the Americas. The earliest known evidence of human occupation in the Americas is much farther south; the early human sites in Alaska have probably been submerged by rising waters during the current interglacial period. People living in the Aleutian Islands developed fine skills in hunting, fishing, and basketry. Hunters made their weapons and watercraft. The baskets are noted for being finely woven with carefully shredded stalks of beach rye.\n\nExplorers, traders and missionaries arrived from Russia beginning in 1741.\n\nIn 1741 the Russian government sent Vitus Bering, a Dane in the service of Russia, and Aleksei Chirikov, a Russian, in the ships \"Saint Peter\" and \"Saint Paul\" on a voyage of discovery in the Northern Pacific. After the ships were separated by a storm; Chirikov discovered several eastern islands of the Aleutian group, and Bering discovered several of the western islands. Bering was shipwrecked and lost his life in the Komandorski Islands (Commander Islands); one of which now bears his name (Bering Island), along with the surrounding Bering Sea. The survivors of Bering's party reached the Kamchatka Peninsula in a boat constructed from the wreckage of their ship, and reported that the islands were rich in fur-bearing animals.\n\nSiberian fur hunters flocked to the Commander Islands and gradually moved eastward across the Aleutian Islands to the mainland. In this manner, Russia gained a foothold on the northwestern coast of North America. The Aleutian Islands consequently belonged to Russia, until that country transferred all its possessions in North America to the U.S. in 1867.\n\nDuring the consolidation of the Russian-American Company there was sporadic conflict with the native population (frequently disastrous to the poorly armed and vastly outnumbered Russians). The colonies soon entered a relatively stable state based on cooperation, intermarriage, and official policies that provided social status, education, and professional training to children of mixed Aleut-Russian birth. Within a generation, the day-to-day administration of the Russian-American colonies was largely in the hands of native-born Alaskans. Reversing the usual trend in colonization where indigenous technologies are replaced, the Russians adopted the Aleut kayak, or baidarka, sea otter hunting techniques, and the working of native copper deposits. The Russians instituted public education, preservation of the Aleut language through transliteration of religious and other texts into Aleut via an adaptation of the Cyrillic alphabet, vaccination of the native population against smallpox, and science-based sea mammal conservation policies that were ahead of their time.\n\nBy 1760 the Russian merchant Andrian Tolstykh had made a detailed census in the vicinity of Adak and extended Russian citizenship to the Aleuts.\n\nDuring his third and last voyage in 1778, Captain James Cook surveyed the eastern portion of the Aleutian archipelago, accurately determined the position of some of the more important islands, and corrected many errors of former navigators.\n\nAmong the first Christian missionaries to arrive in the Aleutian Islands was a party of ten Russian Orthodox monks and priests, who arrived in 1793. Within two years, a monk named Herman was the only survivor of that party. He settled on Spruce Island, near Kodiak Island, and often defended the rights of the Aleuts against the Russian trading companies. He is now known in the Orthodox Church as Saint Herman of Alaska.\n\nAnother early Christian missionary of the Russian Orthodox Church was Father Veniaminov who arrived in Unalaska in 1824. He was named Bishop Innokentii in 1840 and moved to Sitka. He is now known in the Orthodox Church as Saint Innocent of Alaska.\n\nThe principal settlements were on Unalaska Island. The oldest was Iliuliuk (also called Unalaska), settled in 1760–1775, with a customs house and an Orthodox church.\n\nAfter the American purchase of Alaska from Russia in 1867, further development took place. New buildings included a Methodist mission and orphanage, and the headquarters for a considerable fleet of United States revenue cutters, which patrolled the sealing grounds of the Pribilof Islands. The first public school in Unalaska opened in 1883.\n\nThe U.S. Congress extended American citizenship to all Native Americans (and this law has been held to include the indigenous peoples of Alaska) in 1924. A hospital was built in Unalaska in 1933 by the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs.\n\nDuring World War II, small parts of the Aleutian islands were occupied by Japanese forces, when Attu and Kiska were invaded in order to divert American forces away from the main Japanese attack at Midway Atoll. The U.S. Navy, having broken the Japanese naval codes, knew that this was just a diversion, and it did not expend large amounts of effort in defending the islands. More than 90 Americans were taken to Japan as prisoners of war. Most of the civilian population (over 800) of the Aleutians and Pribilovians was detained by the United States in camps in the Alaska Panhandle. During the Aleutian Islands Campaign, American forces invaded Japanese-held Attu and defeated the Japanese. American and Canadian troops later launched an invasion of Kiska, but Japanese forces had already withdrawn, ending the campaign in the islands.\n\nJune 3, 2002 was celebrated as Dutch Harbor Remembrance Day. The governor of Alaska ordered state flags lowered to half-staff to honor the 78 soldiers who died during the two-day Japanese air attack in 1942. The Aleutian World War II National Historic Area Visitors Center opened that month.\n\nThe Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act became law in 1971. In 1977, the Ounalashka Corporation (from Unalaska) declared a dividend. This was the first village corporation to declare and pay a dividend to its shareholders.\n\nThe U.S. conducted underground tests of nuclear weapons on Amchitka Island from 1965 to 1971 as part of the Vela Uniform program. The final detonation, the \"Cannikin\", was the largest underground nuclear explosion by the U.S.\n\nRussian Aleutians is organized as Aleutsky District in Kamchatka Krai. It comprises\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29434769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29434769", "title": "Alternative Energy Institute", "text": "Alternative Energy Institute\n\nAlternative Energy Institute (also known as AEI) was West Texas A&M University's alternative energy research branch. Formed in 1977, the program was nationally and internationally recognized, and along with research provides education and outreach around the U.S. and the globe.\n\nAEI was founded at West Texas State University (now \"West Texas A&M University\") in 1977 by\nDr. Vaughn Nelson, Dr. Earl Gilmore and Dr. Robert Barieau during the 1973 oil crisis. The physics department at West Texas State was already experimenting with wind power and these three individuals took the initiative to found a department to concentrate upon the study of wind. The basic goals of the department were:\n\nInitially, much of the organization's focus was on small wind turbine research and improving blade designs. At this time they installed test turbines and water pumping applications throughout Texas. These projects allowed AEI to develop and improve upon blade design theory and production. During this period the organization also provided consulting in Latin America, Jamaica, Hawaii, and Europe. There, AEI trained villages and groups in wind energy systems.\n\nAt this time AEI operated from three locations: one off-campus and two on-campus. At these locations they customized testing on blade designs, turbine generator units, and complete designs.\n\nDuring this decade the organization focused on green building projects. The most notable of these was AEI's Solar Energy Building. Finished in 1993, the building served as the main site for AEI's operations for seventeen years. The building covered all of the organization's energy usage, including an on-site 10 kW Bergey wind turbine installation, and 3 kW of photovoltaics.\n\nSeveral electric vans were donated to the organization at this time, two of which were maintained for several years. These vans were used to collect data and complete local wind energy projects, as well as to give campus and test site tours.\n\nStarting in 1995, AEI began working with the Texas General Land Office to provide Texas Wind Data to the public. While the GLO data sites have since been decommissioned, the organization still collects, analyzes and publishes Texas Wind Data for the general public.\n\nAEI is currently focusing on developing a new degree plan at WTAMU as well as continuing its research on green energy systems. In terms of turbine testing, the organization focuses on small blade and turbine testing, particularly innovative horizontal and vertical axis designs.\n\nIn 2010, the AEI test site was moved to the Nance Ranch. At this time, the organization's offices were also moved, to WTAMU's Palo Duro Research Facility.\n\nIn the late 90s, AEI also began developing a fortran program called ROTOR. The program could predict theoretical power curves for blade designs and produce screen and printed output of this. The program has been modified a few times since then and is still being used today.\n\nDuring this time, AEI's Wind Data program has greatly expanded. In addition to working with wind farmers to provide data for the public, the organization also analyzes and publishes data for private organizations. In total, the organizations now collects data from 75 sites scattered across Texas. 50 of these data sites are archived online, 31 of which offer data for public use by researchers and developers.\n\nSince 2009, AEI has been offering online alternative energy courses at WTAMU on Wind energy, Solar energy and Renewable energy. Currently, WT offers one course per semester, with alternating subjects. The courses are taught by AEI staff and are open to WT students and those seeking certification.\n\nIn addition to the online courses offered by WTAMU, AEI has also authored renewable energy textbooks\nand educational CDs. The CDs cover the subjects of wind energy, wind turbines, solar energy and wind water pumping. Some CDs are also available in Spanish.\n\nStarted in 1989, AEI has been giving annual Windy Land Owners seminars. Designed to teach land owners and other interested parties general information about the wind industry, most of the seminars took place in the states surrounding Texas. Due to increased interest, AEI began giving seminars in Texas starting in 2001.\n\nTopics covered at these seminars include:\n\nStarting in 2009, AEI also began offering presentations from the WLO Seminars online for general information.\n\nAEI's Solar Energy Building\n\nLaunched in 1998, The Wind Energy Applications Training Symposium (WEATS) is an internationally acclaimed workshop for the Native American community. Designed for project planners, developers, utility officials, and engineers directly involved with energy projects, it is both a good resource for networking and developing practical knowledge.\n\nTopics covered at this symposium include:\n\nIn addition to its seminars and workshops, AEI also regularly offers consulting to potential wind farmers and hosts tours of its research facilities.\n\nAs part of its community outreach, the organization also presents at the Caprock Science Fair and other local schools, informing students about wind energy via displays, demonstrations and brochures at the elementary, junior high and high school levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21199791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21199791", "title": "Beaver Creek State Park", "text": "Beaver Creek State Park\n\nBeaver Creek State Park is a Ohio state park in Columbiana County, Ohio in the United States. The park is near East Liverpool on the banks of Little Beaver Creek. It is open for year-round recreation including, camping, boating, hunting, fishing and hiking. Historic remnants of the Sandy and Beaver Canal can be found throughout the park. Confederate General John Hunt Morgan was captured near what is now the park after conducting raids across the state during the American Civil War.\n\nThe history of human habitation in the Beaver Creek area dates back to the Clovis culture, about 10,000 years ago. Archaeological digs nearby have uncovered arrowheads, pottery and knives that date back to these prehistoric Paleoindian people.\n\nThe land in and around Beaver Creek State Park was inhabited by various Indian tribes. The last tribe to call the area home before being forced out by the encroachment of Anglo-American settlers in the Ohio Country were the Mingo and Wyandot Indians. A massacre of Mingo leader Logan's family nearby was the catalyst for Dunmore's War.\n\nThe first permanent white settler in the area was John Quinn a trapper who moved into the Little Beaver Creek valley in 1790. He was soon followed by Anglo-American pioneers who cleared the forests and established frontier farms throughout eastern Ohio.\n\nThe Sandy and Beaver Canal ran from the Ohio and Erie Canal at Bolivar, Ohio to the Ohio River at Glasgow, Pennsylvania. It had 90 locks, was chartered in 1828 and completed in 1848. However, the middle section of the canal had many problems from the beginning and fell into disrepair. The canal ceased to operate in 1852, when the Cold Run Reservoir Dam outside of Lisbon, Ohio broke, ruining a large portion of the canal. Remnants of the canal can be found at Beaver Creek State Park.\n\nJohn Hunt Morgan was a Confederate general and cavalry officer in the American Civil War. He is best known for Morgan's Raid in 1863, when he led 2,460 troops racing past Union lines into Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio in July 1863. This would be the farthest north any uniformed Confederate troops penetrated during the war. The raid ended when Morgan and his men were forced to surrender near what is now Beaver Creek State Park.\n\nBeaver Creek State Park was established in 1949 with the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.\n\nGaston's Mill is a historic mill that was built in 1837 on Little Beaver Creek. It is now restored and is open to the public. The mill is in working condition with various displays of antique milling equipment located within the mill building. The mill works seasonally and grinds whole wheat flour, cornmeal and buckwheat flour.\n\nThe historic recreation Pioneer Village features a log home, church, schoolhouse, general store and blacksmith shop, and is next to the mill. The village is open on weekends during the summer season.\n\nThe Beaver Creek Wildlife Education Center features small live animals, natural history dioramas, displays of insects, arrowheads and nature photographs, and also houses a gift shop. The center's volunteers offer programs about nature and environmental conservation.\n\nBeaver Creek State Park is in the Appalachian Highlands region of Ohio. The hilly sandstone region is home to diverse plant and animal populations. The region contains nearly 70% of the woodlands in Ohio. At one time this same region was a barren wasteland that had been stripped of its old growth forests to provide fuel for the iron furnaces. The forests have since regrown with a diversity of hardwoods including hickory, oak, and maple.\n\nLittle Beaver Creek is a state and national wild and scenic river. It flows through the park and creates a gorge in the soft sandstone hills of the park. The walls of the gorge are quite steep with high cliffs over the creek. Little Beaver Creek supports 63 species of fish, 49 mammal species, 140 types of birds and 46 species of reptiles and amphibians, including the rare and protected salamander known as the hellbender.\n\nA variety of animals are found in Beaver Creek State Park. These animals are protected from hunting in the park. They include most common Eastern Woodland creatures such as the white-tailed deer, skunks, wild turkeys, opossums, raccoons, eastern gray squirrels, great horned owls and numerous songbirds, reptiles and amphibians. Plant life at the park includes Dame's violet, goldenrod, spring beauties and asters.\n\nBeaver Creek State Park is open for year-round recreation. The park is bisected by Little Beaver Creek which is a cold water fishery. Common game fish include smallmouth and rock bass. Anglers and hunters are required to have a license issued by the state. The creek is open to canoes and rubber rafts. There are 16 miles of trails open to hiking in the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "17511268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511268", "title": "Cahnite", "text": "Cahnite\n\nCahnite (Cahnit in German, Cahnita in Spanish, Канит in Russian) is a brittle white or colorless mineral that has perfect cleavage and is usually transparent. It usually forms tetragonal-shaped crystals and it has a hardness of 3 mohs. Cahnite was discovered in the year 1921. It was named Cahnite to honor Lazard Cahn (1865–1940), who was a mineral collector and dealer. It is usually found in the Franklin Mine, in Franklin, New Jersey. Until the year 2002, when a sample of cahnite was found in Japan, that was the only known place that cahnite was located. The geological environment that it occurs in is in pegmatites cutting a changed zinc orebody.\nThe chemical formula for cahnite is CaB[AsO](OH). It is made up of 26.91% calcium, 3.63% boron, 25.15% arsenic, 1.35% hydrogen, and 42.96% oxygen. It has a molecular weight of 297.91 grams. Cahnite is not radioactive. Cahnite is associated with these other minerals: willemite, rhodonite, pyrochroite, hedyphane, datolite, and baryte.\n"}
{"id": "13662027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13662027", "title": "Colloid vibration current", "text": "Colloid vibration current\n\nColloid vibration current is an electroacoustic phenomenon that arises when ultrasound propagates through a fluid that contains ions and either solid particles or emulsion droplets. \n\nThe pressure gradient in an ultrasonic wave moves particles relative to the fluid. This motion disturbs the double layer that exists at the particle-fluid interface. The picture illustrates the mechanism of this distortion. Practically all particles in fluids carry a surface charge. This surface charge is screened with an equally charged diffuse layer; this structure is called the double layer. Ions of the diffuse layer are located in the fluid and can move with the fluid. Fluid motion relative to the particle drags these diffuse ions in the direction of one or the other of the particle's poles. The picture shows ions dragged towards the left hand pole. As a result of this drag, there is an excess of negative ions in the vicinity of the left hand pole and an excess of positive surface charge at the right hand pole. As a result of this charge excess, particles gain a dipole moment. These dipole moments generate an electric field that in turn generates measurable electric current. This phenomenon is widely used for measuring zeta potential in concentrated colloids.\n\n"}
{"id": "42184724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42184724", "title": "Compiègne Wagon", "text": "Compiègne Wagon\n\nThe Compiègne Wagon was the historical train carriage in which the First and Second Armistice at Compiègne were signed.\n\nAfter the first armistice was signed in the forest of Compiègne in 1918, the wagon was eventually moved to a protective place in a French museum. After being returned for the 1940 second armistice at Compiègne, the wagon was moved to Berlin to symbolize Germany's superiority over France.\n\nAt some point during World War II it was destroyed, accounts differ as to where, by whom and when.\n\nThe wagon was built in 1914 in Saint-Denis, as dining car No. 2419D, and was used as such until August 1918. The car was then converted into an office for Marshal Ferdinand Foch, the Supreme Allied Commander, who used it from the end of October 1918 to September 1919.\n\nOn 11 November 1918, Foch, as Supreme Commander, signed the armistice with Germany in the then-called \"Wagon of Compiègne\". This agreement was the final \"cease-fire\" which ended fighting in the First World War; the other Central Powers having already reached agreements with the Allied Powers to end hostilities.\n\nSometime after this, the car was returned to the Compagnie des Wagons-Lits and briefly resumed service as a dining car. In September 1919, it was donated to the Musée de l'Armée, in Paris. The wagon was on display in the Musée‘s Cour des Invalides from 1921 to 1927.\n\nAt the request of the Mayor of Compiègne, and with the support of the American Arthur Henry Fleming, the car was restored and returned to Compiègne. It was housed in a specially created museum building as part of the \"Glade of the Armistice\" historic monument, with the car a few meters from the exact site of the signing ceremony\n\nDuring the Second World War, Hitler ordered that the wagon be moved to exactly the same location for the signing of the second \"armistice at Compiègne\", on 22 June 1940; this time with Germany victorious. The carriage was moved out of its protective building and returned to the signing-place, which was several metres away and had been marked out as part of the monument. Subsequently, the wagon was taken to Berlin and displayed a week later at the Berlin Cathedral. In 1944 the wagon was sent to Thuringia, in central Germany. Then it moved to Ruhla and later Gotha Crawinkel, near a huge tunnel system. There it was destroyed in March 1945 by the SS with fire and/or dynamite, in the face of the advancing U.S. Army. However, some SS veterans and civilian eye witnesses claim that the wagon had been destroyed by air attack near Ohrdruf while still in Thuringia in April 1944. Even so, it is generally believed the wagon was destroyed in 1945 by the SS.\n\nToday's historical wagon is the exact copy of the original one. In 1950, French manufacturer Wagons-Lits, the company that ran the Orient Express, donated a car from the same series to the museum — 2439D is identical to its ravaged twin, from its polished wooden finishes to its studded, leather-bound chairs. This car had also been part of Foch's private train during the 1918 signing. At the 1950 ceremony, it was renumbered No. 2419D. It is parked beside the display of the original car’s remains: a few fragments of bronze decoration and two access ramps.\n"}
{"id": "534839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=534839", "title": "Crepuscular rays", "text": "Crepuscular rays\n\nCrepuscular rays (more commonly known as sunbeams, sun rays, splintered light, or god rays), in atmospheric optics, are rays of sunlight that appear to radiate from the point in the sky where the sun is located. These rays, which stream through openings in clouds (particularly stratocumulus) or between other objects, are columns of sunlit air particles separated by darker cloud-shadowed volumes. Despite seeming to converge toward the light source, the rays are in fact near-parallel shafts of sunlight. Their apparent convergence is a perspective effect. This phenomenon mimics the way parallel railway lines or long hallways, for example, seem to seek convergence at a distant vanishing point. The sun rays do converge toward the sun, but the sun is much farther away than the rays might suggest.\n\nThe name comes from their frequent occurrences during twilight hours (those around dawn and dusk), when the contrasts between light and dark are the most obvious. Crepuscular comes from the Latin word \"crepusculum\", meaning twilight.\n\nThe rays in some cases may extend across the sky and appear to converge at the antisolar point, the point on the sky sphere directly opposite the sun. In this case they are called \"anticrepuscular\" or \"antisolar rays\". These are not as easily spotted as crepuscular rays. This apparent dual convergence (to both the solar and antisolar points) is a perspective effect analogous to railway tracks appearing to converge to opposite points in opposite directions.\n\nCrepuscular rays usually appear orange because the path through the atmosphere at sunrise and sunset passes through up to 40 times as much air as rays from a high midday sun. Particles in the air scatter short wavelength light (blue and green) through Rayleigh scattering much more strongly than longer wavelength yellow and red light.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5721669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5721669", "title": "Criticisms of Marxism", "text": "Criticisms of Marxism\n\nCriticisms of Marxism have come from various political ideologies and academic disciplines. These include general criticisms about a lack of internal consistency, criticisms related to historical materialism, that it is a type of historical determinism, the necessity of suppression of individual rights, issues with the implementation of communism and economic issues such as the distortion or absence of price signals and reduced incentives. In addition, empirical and epistemological problems are frequently identified.\n\nDemocratic socialists and social democrats reject the idea that socialism can be accomplished only through class conflict and a proletarian revolution. Many anarchists reject the need for a transitory state phase. Some thinkers have rejected the fundamentals of Marxist theory, such as historical materialism and the labour theory of value and gone on to criticise capitalism and advocate socialism using other arguments.\n\nSome contemporary supporters of Marxism argue that many aspects of Marxist thought are viable, but that the corpus is incomplete or somewhat outdated in regards to certain aspects of economic, political or social theory. They may therefore combine some Marxist concepts with the ideas of other theorists such as Max Weber, with the Frankfurt School being one example.\n\nHistorian Paul Johnson wrote: \"The truth is, even the most superficial inquiry into Marx’s use of evidence forces one to treat with skepticism everything he wrote which relies on factual data\". For example Johnson stated: \"The whole of the key Chapter Eight of Capital is a deliberate and systematic falsification to prove a thesis which an objective examination of the facts showed was untenable\".\n\nHistorical materialism remains one of the intellectual bases of Marxism. It proposes that technological advances in modes of production inevitably lead to changes in the social relations of production. This economic \"base\" of society supports is reflected by and influences the ideological \"superstructure\" which encompasses culture, religion, politics and all other aspects of humanity's social consciousness. It thus looks for the causes of developments and changes in human history in economic, technological and more broadly, material factors as well as the clashes of material interests among tribes, social classes and nations. Law, politics, the arts, literature, morality and religion are understood by Marx to make up the superstructure as reflections of the economic base of society. Many critics have argued that this is an oversimplification of the nature of society and claim that the influence of ideas, culture and other aspects of what Marx called the superstructure are just as important as the economic base to the course of society, if not more so. However, Marxism does not claim that the economic base of society is the only determining element in society as demonstrated by the following letter written by Friedrich Engels, Marx's long-time contributor:According to the materialist conception of history, the \"ultimately\" determining element in history is the production and reproduction of real life. More than this neither Marx nor I ever asserted. Hence if somebody twists this into saying that the economic element is the only determining one he transforms that proposition into a meaningless, abstract, senseless phrase.\n\nHowever, this also creates another problem for Marxism. If the superstructure influences the base then there is no need for Marx's constant assertions that the history of society is one of economic class conflict. This then becomes a classic chicken or the egg argument as to whether the base or the superstructure comes first. Peter Singer proposes that the way to solve this problem is to understand that Marx saw the economic base as ultimately real. Marx believed that humanity's defining characteristic was its means of production and thus the only way for man to free himself from oppression was for him to take control of the means of production. According to Marx, this is the goal of history and the elements of the superstructure act as tools of history. Even if Singer's interpretation of Marx's intuitions on the \"goal of history\" is faithful to Marx's original intent, that still would not make this viewpoint necessarily true.\n\nMurray Rothbard criticized historical materialism as well, arguing that Marx claimed the \"base\" of society (its technology and social relations) determined its \"consciousness\" in the superstructure, yet, building on the arguments of Ludwig von Mises, Rothbard observes it is human consciousness which drives the development of technology and social relations. Rothbard argues that Marx ignores how the base arises, which obscures that the true causal path is from the \"superstructure\" to the base, as human beings determine the development of technology and the social relations they wish to pursue. Rothbard quotes von Mises, who states \"We may summarize the Marxian doctrine in this way: In the beginning there are the 'material productive forces', i.e., the technological equipment of human productive efforts, the tools and machines. No question concerning their origin is permitted; they are, that is all; we must assume that they are dropped from heaven.\" \n\nMarx's theory of history is considered a variant of historical determinism linked to his reliance on dialectical materialism as an endogenous mechanism for social change.\n\nAt a certain stage of development, the material productive forces of society come into conflict with the existing relations of production or – this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms – with the property relations within the framework of which they have operated hitherto. From forms of development of the productive forces these relations turn into their fetters. Then begins an era of social revolution. The changes in the economic foundation lead sooner or later to the transformation of the whole immense superstructure.\n\nThe concept dialectic emerged from the dialogues of the ancient Greek philosophers, but it was brought out by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel in the early 19th century as a conceptual framework for the often opposing forces of historical evolution. Historical determinism has also been associated with scholars like Arnold Toynbee and Oswald Spengler, but in recent times this conceptual approach has fallen into disuse.\n\nIn an effort to reassert this approach to an understanding of the forces of history, Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar criticised the narrow conceptual basis of Marx's ideas on historical evolution. In the 1978 book \"The Downfall of Capitalism and Communism\", Ravi Batra pointed out crucial differences in the historical determinist approaches of Sarkar and Marx.\n\nSarkar's main concern with the human element is what imparts universality to his thesis. Thus while social evolution according to Marx is governed chiefly by economic conditions, to Sarkar this dynamic is propelled by forces varying with time and space: sometimes physical prowess and high-spiritedness, sometimes intellect applied to dogmas and sometimes intellect applied to the accumulation of capital (p. 38) ... The main line of defence of the Sarkarian hypothesis is that unlike the dogmas now in disrepute, it does not emphasise one particular point to the exclusion of all others: it is based on the sum total of human experience – the totality of human nature. Whenever a single factor, however important and fundamental, is called upon to illuminate the entire past and by implication the future, it simply invites disbelief, and after closer inspection, rejection. Marx committed that folly, and to some extent so did Toynbee. They both offered an easy prey to the critics, and the result is that today historical determinism is regarded by most scholars as an idea so bankrupt that it can never be solvent again.\n\nVarious economists have argued that a socialist state would by its very nature erode the rights of its citizens. The American economist Milton Friedman argued that under socialism the absence of a free market economy would inevitably lead to an authoritarian political regime. Friedman's view was also shared by Friedrich Hayek, who also believed that capitalism is a precondition for freedom to flourish in a nation state. Some liberal theorists argue that any redistribution of property is a form of coercion. Freidrich Engels suggested that, in order to ensure the success of the new communist society, revolutionary forces \"must maintain this rule by means of the terror which its arms inspire in the reactionists\".\n\nAnarchists have also argued that Marxist communism will inevitably lead to coercion and state domination. Mikhail Bakunin believed Marxist regimes would lead to the \"despotic control of the populace by a new and not at all numerous aristocracy\". Even if this new aristocracy were to have originated from among the ranks of the proletariat, Bakunin argued that their new-found power would fundamentally change their view of society and thus lead them to \"look down at the plain working masses\".\n\nMarxian economics have been criticized for a number of reasons. Some critics point to the Marxian analysis of capitalism while others argue that the economic system proposed by communism is unworkable.\n\nThere are also doubts that the rate of profit in capitalism would tend to fall as Marx predicted. In 1961, Marxian economist Nobuo Okishio devised a theorem (Okishio's theorem) showing that if capitalists pursue cost-cutting techniques and if the real wage does not rise, the rate of profit must rise.\n\nThe labor theory of value is one of the most commonly criticized core tenets of Marxism.\n\nThe Austrian School argues that this fundamental theory of classical economics is false and prefers the subsequent and modern subjective theory of value put forward by Carl Menger in his book \"Principles of Economics\". The Austrian School was not alone in criticizing the Marxian and classical belief in the labor theory of value. British economist Alfred Marshall attacked Marx, saying: \"It is not true that the spinning of yarn in a factory [...] is the product of the labour of the operatives. It is the product of their labour, together with that of the employer and subordinate managers, and of the capital employed\". Marshall points to the capitalist as sacrificing the money he could be using now for investment in business, which ultimately produces work. By this logic, the capitalist contributes to the work and productivity of the factory because he delays his gratification through investment. Through the law of supply and demand, Marshall attacked Marxian theory of value. According to Marshall, price or value is determined not just by supply, but by the demand of the consumer. Labor does contribute to cost, but so do the wants and needs of consumers. The shift from labor being the source of all value to subjective individual evaluations creating all value undermines Marx's economic conclusions and some of his social theories.\n\nThe economic calculation problem is a criticism of socialist economics or, more precisely, of centralized socialist planned economies. It was first proposed by Austrian School economist Ludwig von Mises in 1920 and later expounded by Friedrich Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market solution is the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how a good should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for it. The price conveys embedded information about the abundance of resources as well as their desirability which in turn allows on the basis of individual consensual decisions corrections that prevent shortages and surpluses. Mises and Hayek argued that this is the only possible solution and, without the information provided by market prices, socialism lacks a method to rationally allocate resources. The debate raged in the 1920s and 1930s and that specific period of the debate has come to be known by economic historians as the socialist calculation debate. In practice, socialist states like the Soviet Union used mathematical techniques to determine and set prices with mixed results.\n\nSome critics of utopian or egalitarian socialism argue that income sharing reduces individual incentives to work and therefore incomes should be individualised as much as possible. Critics of socialism have argued that in any society where everyone holds equal wealth there can be no material incentive to work because one does not receive rewards for work well done. They further argue that incentives increase productivity for all people and that the loss of those effects would lead to stagnation. In \"Principles of Political Economy\" (1848), John Stuart Mill said: It is the common error of Socialists to overlook the natural indolence of mankind; their tendency to be passive, to be the slaves of habit, to persist indefinitely in a course once chosen. Let them once attain any state of existence which they consider tolerable, and the danger to be apprehended is that they will thenceforth stagnate; will not exert themselves to improve, and by letting their faculties rust, will lose even the energy required to preserve them from deterioration. Competition may not be the best conceivable stimulus, but it is at present a necessary one, and no one can foresee the time when it will not be indispensable to progress.\n\nHowever, he later altered his views and became more sympathetic to socialism, particularly Fourierism, adding chapters to his \"Principles of Political Economy\" in defence of a socialist outlook and defending some socialist causes. Within this revised work, he also made the radical proposal that the whole wage system be abolished in favour of a co-operative wage system. Nonetheless, some of his views on the idea of flat taxation remained, albeit in a slightly toned-down form.\n\nThe economist John Kenneth Galbraith has criticised communal forms of socialism that promote egalitarianism in terms of wages/compensation as unrealistic in its assumptions about human motivation: This hope [that egalitarian reward would lead to a higher level of motivation], one that spread far beyond Marx, has been shown by both history and human experience to be irrelevant. For better or worse, human beings do not rise to such heights. Generations of socialists and socially oriented leaders have learned this to their disappointment and more often to their sorrow. The basic fact is clear: the good society must accept men and women as they are.\n\nVladimir Karpovich Dmitriev writing in 1898, Ladislaus von Bortkiewicz writing in 1906–1907 and subsequent critics have alleged that Karl Marx's value theory and law of the tendency of the rate of profit to fall are internally inconsistent. In other words, the critics allege that Marx drew conclusions that actually do not follow from his theoretical premises. Once those errors are corrected, Marx's conclusion that aggregate price and profit are determined by—and equal to—aggregate value and surplus value no longer holds true. This result calls into question his theory that the exploitation of workers is the sole source of profit.\n\nThe inconsistency allegations have been a prominent feature of Marxian economics and the debate surrounding it since the 1970s. Andrew Kliman argues that since internally inconsistent theories cannot possibly be right, this undermines Marx's critique of political economy and current-day research based upon it as well as the correction of Marx's alleged inconsistencies.\n\nCritics who have alleged that Marx has been proved internally inconsistent include former and current Marxian and/or Sraffian economists, such as Paul Sweezy, Nobuo Okishio, Ian Steedman, John Roemer, Gary Mongiovi and David Laibman, who propose that the field be grounded in their correct versions of Marxian economics instead of in Marx's critique of political economy in the original form in which he presented and developed it in \"\".\n\nProponents of the temporal single system interpretation (TSSI) of Marx's value theory, like Kliman, claim that the supposed inconsistencies are actually the result of misinterpretation and argue that when Marx's theory is understood as \"temporal\" and \"single-system\", the alleged internal inconsistencies disappear. In a recent survey of the debate, Kliman concludes that \"the proofs of inconsistency are no longer defended; the entire case against Marx has been reduced to the interpretive issue\".\n\nMarxism has been criticized as irrelevant, with many economists rejecting its core tenets and assumptions. John Maynard Keynes referred to \"Capital\" as \"an obsolete textbook which I know to be not only scientifically erroneous but without interest or application for the modern world\". According to George Stigler, \"Economists working in the Marxian-Sraffian tradition represent a small minority of modern economists, and that their writings have virtually no impact upon the professional work of most economists in major English-language universities\". Robert Solow, in a review of the first edition of The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics criticized it for overemphasizing the importance of Marxism in modern economics. Marx was an important and influential thinker, and Marxism has been a doctrine with intellectual and practical influence. The fact is, however, that most serious English-speaking economists regard Marxist economics as an irrelevant dead end. \n\nA 2006 nationally representative survey of American professors found 3% of them identify as Marxists. The share rises to 5% in the humanities and is about 18% amongst social scientists.\n\nSome criticisms are based on the assertion that the Marxian conception of society is fundamentally flawed. The Marxist stages of history, class analysis and theory of social evolution have been criticised. Jean-Paul Sartre concluded that \"class\" was not a homogenous entity and could never mount a revolution, but continued to advocate Marxist beliefs. Marx himself admitted that his theory could not explain the internal development of the \"Asiatic\" social system, where much of the world's population lived for thousands of years.\n\nArguments against Marxism are often based on epistemological reasoning. Specifically, various critics have contended that Marx or his adherents have a flawed approach to epistemology.\n\nAccording to Leszek Kołakowski, the laws of dialectics at the very base of Marxism are fundamentally flawed: some are \"truisms with no specific Marxist content\", others \"philosophical dogmas that cannot be proved by scientific means\", yet others just \"nonsense\". Some Marxist \"laws\" are vague and can be interpreted differently, but these interpretations generally fall into one of the aforementioned categories of flaws as well. However, Ralph Miliband countered that Kolakowski had a flawed understanding of Marxism and its relation to Leninism and Stalinism.\n\nEconomist Thomas Sowell wrote in 1985: What Marx accomplished was to produce such a comprehensive, dramatic, and fascinating vision that it could withstand innumerable empirical contradictions, logical refutations, and moral revulsions at its effects. The Marxian vision took the overwhelming complexity of the real world and made the parts fall into place, in a way that was intellectually exhilarating and conferred such a sense of moral superiority that opponents could be simply labelled and dismissed as moral lepers or blind reactionaries. Marxism was – and remains – a mighty instrument for the acquisition and maintenance of political power.\n\nMany notable academics such as Karl Popper, David Prychitko, Robert C. Allen, and Francis Fukuyama argue that many of Marx's predictions have failed. Marx predicted that wages would tend to depreciate and that capitalist economies would suffer worsening economic crises leading to the ultimate overthrow of the capitalist system. The socialist revolution would occur first in the most advanced capitalist nations and once collective ownership had been established then all sources of class conflict would disappear. Instead of Marx's predictions, communist revolutions took place in undeveloped regions in Latin America and Asia instead of industrialized countries like the United States or the United Kingdom.\n\nPopper has argued that both the concept of Marx's historical method as well as its application are unfalsifiable and thus it is a pseudoscience that cannot be proven true or false: The Marxist theory of history, in spite of the serious efforts of some of its founders and followers, ultimately adopted this soothsaying practice. In some of its earlier formulations (for example in Marx's analysis of the character of the 'coming social revolution') their predictions were testable, and in fact falsified. Yet instead of accepting the refutations the followers of Marx re-interpreted both the theory and the evidence in order to make them agree. In this way they rescued the theory from refutation; but they did so at the price of adopting a device which made it irrefutable. They thus gave a 'conventionalist twist' to the theory; and by this stratagem they destroyed its much advertised claim to scientific status.\n\nPopper believed that Marxism had been initially scientific, in that Marx had postulated a theory which was genuinely predictive. When Marx's predictions were not in fact borne out, Popper argues that the theory was saved from falsification by the addition of \"ad hoc\" hypotheses which attempted to make it compatible with the facts. By this means, a theory which was initially genuinely scientific degenerated into pseudoscientific dogma. Popper agreed on the general non-falsifiability of the social sciences, but instead used it as an argument against central planning and all-encompassing historiographical ideologies. Popper devoted much attention to dissecting the practice of using the dialectic in defence of Marxist thought, which was the very strategy employed by V.A. Lektorsky in his defence of Marxism against Popper's criticisms. Among Popper's conclusions was that Marxists used dialectic as a method of side-stepping and evading criticisms, rather than actually answering or addressing them: Hegel thought that philosophy develops; yet his own system was to remain the last and highest stage of this development and could not be superseded. The Marxists adopted the same attitude towards the Marxian system. Hence, Marx's anti-dogmatic attitude exists only in the theory and not in the practice of orthodox Marxism, and dialectic is used by Marxists, following the example of Engels' Anti-Dühring, mainly for the purposes of apologetics – to defend the Marxist system against criticism. As a rule critics are denounced for their failure to understand the dialectic, or proletarian science, or for being traitors. Thanks to dialectic the anti-dogmatic attitude has disappeared, and Marxism has established itself as a dogmatism which is elastic enough, by using its dialectic method, to evade any further attack. It has thus become what I have called reinforced dogmatism.\n\nBertrand Russell has criticized as unscientific Marx's belief in progress as a universal law. Russell stated: \"Marx professed himself an atheist, but retained a cosmic optimism which only theism could justify\". Marxists like Thomas Riggins have claimed that Russell misrepresented Marx's ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24483784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24483784", "title": "Current (stream)", "text": "Current (stream)\n\nA current, in a river or stream, is the flow of water influenced by gravity as the water moves downhill to reduce its potential energy. The current varies spatially as well as temporally within the stream, dependent upon the flow volume of water, stream gradient, and channel geometry. In tidal zones, the current in rivers and streams may reverse on the flood tide before resuming on the ebb tide.\n\n"}
{"id": "9495873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9495873", "title": "Energy policy of Australia", "text": "Energy policy of Australia\n\nThe energy policy of Australia is subject to the regulatory and fiscal influence of all three levels of government in Australia, although only the State and Federal levels determine policy for primary industries such as coal.\n\nAs of 2016, Federal energy policies continue to support the coal mining and natural gas industries through subsidies for fossil fuel use and production as the exports by those industries contribute significantly to the earnings of foreign exchange and government revenues. Australia is one of the most coal-dependent countries in the world. Coal and natural gas, along with oil-based products, are currently the primary sources of Australian energy usage and the coal industry produces approximately 38% of Australia's total greenhouse gas emissions. In 2015 Federal policy reverted to a pro-coal economy with cuts to alternate and renewable energy government offices, targets and subsidies \n\nFederal climate change policy changed following the election of the Labor Rudd Government in December 2007, which committed to introduce an Emissions Trading Scheme in 2010, and to expand the mandatory renewable energy target to ensure 20% of electricity supply in Australia was from renewable sources by 2020. After a contentious political debate, a carbon pricing mechanism entered force on 1 July 2012 under Prime Minister Julia Gillard, but was repealed by the Abbott Government in 2014. In June 2015 the Abbott Government downgraded the renewable energy target from 41,000 GWh per year to 33,000 GWh.\n\nAs of 2013, Australia was now only the 12th highest emitter of greenhouse gases per capita in the world, and 16th (behind China, Russia. the US, Germany, the UK, Japan, India and other major developed nations), in total CO2 emissions (kt per year).\n\nRenewable energy commercialisation in Australia is an area of growing activity. Australia's renewable energy industries are diverse, covering numerous energy sources and scales of operation, and currently contribute about 8–10% of Australia's total energy supply. The major area where renewable energy is growing is in electricity generation following the introduction of government Mandatory Renewable Energy Targets. The two most populous states, New South Wales and Victoria have renewable energy targets of 20% and 25% respectively by 2020.\n\nAfter World War II, New South Wales and Victoria started connecting the formerly small and self-contained local and regional power grids into statewide grids run centrally by public statutory authorities. Similar developments occurred in other states. Both of the industrially large states cooperated with the Commonwealth in the development and interconnection of the Snowy Mountains Scheme.\n\nRapid economic growth led to large and expanding construction programs of coal-fired power stations such as black coal in New South Wales and brown coal in Victoria. By the 1980s complex policy questions had emerged involving the massive requirements for investment, land and water.\n\nBetween 1981 and 1983 a cascade of blackouts and disruptions was triggered in both states, resulting from generator design failures in New South Wales, industrial disputes in Victoria, and drought in the storages of the Snowy system (which provided essential peak power to the State systems). Wide political controversy arose from this and from proposals to the New South Wales Government from the Electricity Commission of New South Wales for urgent approval to build large new stations at Mardi and Olney on the Central Coast, and at other sites later.\n\nThe Commission of Enquiry into Electricity Generation Planning in New South Wales was established, reporting in mid-1985. This was the first independent enquiry directed from outside the industry into the Australian electricity system. It found, among other matters, that existing power stations were very inefficient, that plans for four new stations, worth then about $12 billion, should be abandoned, and that if the sector were restructured there should be sufficient capacity for normal purposes until the early years of the 21st century. This forecast was achieved. The Commission also recommended enhanced operational coordination of the adjoining State systems and the interconnection in eastern Australia of regional power markets.\n\nThe New South Wales Enquiry marked the beginning of the end of the centralised power utility monopolies and established the direction of a new trajectory in Australian energy policy, towards decentralisation, interconnection of States and the use of markets for coordination. Similar enquiries were subsequently established in Victoria (by the Parliament) and elsewhere, and during the 1990s the industry was comprehensively restructured in southeastern Australia and subsequently corporatised.\n\nFollowing the report by the Industry Commission on the sector moves towards a national market developed. Impetus towards system wide competition was encouraged by the Hilmer recommendations. The establishment of the National Electricity Market in 1997 was the first major accomplishment of the new Federal/State cooperative arrangements under the Council of Australian Governments. The governance provisions included a National Electricity Code, the establishment in 1996 of a central market manager, the National Electricity Market Management Company (NEMMCO), and a regulator, National Electricity Code Administrator (NECA).\n\nFollowing several years experience with the new system and a number of controversies an energy market reform process was conducted by the Ministerial Council on Energy. As a result, beginning in 2004, a broader national arrangement, including electricity and gas and other forms of energy, was established. These arrangements are administered by a national regulator, the Australian Energy Regulator (AER), and a market rule-making body, the Australian Energy Market Commission (AEMC), and a market operator, the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO).\n\nOver the 10 years from 1998–99 to 2008–09, Australia's electricity use increased at an average rate of 2.5% a year. In 2008–09, a total of of electricity (including off-grid electricity) was generated in Australia. Between 2009 and 2013 NEM energy usage had decreased by 4.3% or almost .\n\nThe main source of Australia's electricity generation is coal. In 2003, coal-fired plants produced 58.4% of the total capacity, followed by hydropower (19.1%, of which 17% is pumped storage), natural gas (13.5%), liquid/gas fossil fuel-switching plants (5.4%), oil products (2.9%), wind power (0.4%), biomass (0.2%) and solar (0.1%). In 2003, coal-fired power plants generated 77.2% of the country's total electricity production, followed by natural gas (13.8%), hydropower (7.0%), oil (1.0%), biomass (0.6%) and solar and wind combined (0.3%).\n\nThe total generating capacity from all sources in 2008-9 was approximately with an average capacity utilisation of 52%. Coal-fired plants constituted a majority of generating capacity which in 2008-9 was . In 2008-9, a total of of electricity was produced from black coal and from brown coal. Depending on the cost of coal at the power station, the long run marginal cost of coal-based electricity at power stations in eastern Australia is between 7 and 8 cents per kWh, which is around $79 per MWh.\n\nHydroelectricity accounts for 6.5–7% of NEM electricity generation. The massive Snowy Mountains Scheme is the largest producer of hydro-electricity in eastern Victoria and southern New South Wales.\n\nIn 2014, Australia's wind farms produced over 30% of the country's clean energy. Wind power supplied 4.2% of Australia's total electricity during the year. Australia had 1,866 wind turbines spread across 71 wind farms at the end of 2014. Three wind farms with a combined power generation capacity of 566.7 megawatts (MW) were completed in 2014.\n\nBy 2015, there were 4,187 MW of installed wind power capacity, with another 15,284 MW either being planned or under construction. In the year to October 2015, wind power accounted for 4.9% of Australia's total electricity demand and 33.7% of total renewable energy supply. As at October 2015, there were 76 wind farms in Australia, most of which had turbines of from 1.5 to 3 MW.\n\nSolar energy is used to heat water, in addition to its role in producing electricity through photovoltaics (PV).\n\nIn 2007, less than 1% of Australian electricity came from solar power generation, mainly due to the higher cost per kW than other power sources because of the cost of solar panels. Innovative applications of PV technology being developed in Australia and elsewhere include concentrating systems to focus the solar energy on to a smaller area of higher efficiency cells and the use of building integrated PV, where the PV cells perform architectural or structural functions as well as power generation, thereby offsetting some of the cost. In 2014/15, PV accounted for 2.4% of Australia's electrical energy production. The installed PV capacity in Australia has increased 10-fold between 2009 and 2011, and quadrupled between 2011 and 2016.\n\nThe Australian government says new technology harnessing wave energy could be important for supplying electricity to most of the country's major capital cities. The Perth Wave Energy Project near Fremantle in Western Australia operates through a number of submerged buoys, creating energy as they move with passing waves. The Australian government has provided more than $US600,000 in research funding for the technology developed by Carnegie, a Perth company.\n\nJervis Bay Nuclear Power Plant was a proposed nuclear power reactor in the Jervis Bay Territory on the south coast of New South Wales. It would have been Australia's first nuclear power plant, and was the only proposal to have received serious consideration as of 2005. Some environmental studies and site works were completed, and two rounds of tenders were called and evaluated, but the Australian government decided not to proceed with the project.\n\nQueensland introduced legislation to ban nuclear power development on 20 February 2007. Tasmania has also banned nuclear power development. Both laws were enacted in response to a pro-nuclear position, by John Howard in 2006, and the release of the Switkowski report into nuclear power.\n\nAn independent panel of Australian scientists and nuclear experts have been critical of the findings of the Switkowski nuclear inquiry. They found that the Switkowski report relies on some flawed assumptions which reveal a bias towards nuclear power on economic, technological, health and environmental grounds.\n\nJohn Howard went to the November 2007 election with a pro-nuclear power platform but his government was soundly defeated by Labor, which is opposed to nuclear power for Australia.\n\nThere are vast deep-seated granite systems, mainly in central Australia, that have high temperatures at depth and these are being drilled by 19 companies across Australia in 141 areas. They are spending A$654 million on exploration programs. South Australia has been described as \"Australia's hot rock haven\" and this emissions-free and renewable energy form could provide an estimated 6.8% of Australia's base load power needs by 2030. According to an estimate by the Centre for International Economics, Australia has enough geothermal energy to contribute electricity for 450 years.\n\nThe 2008 federal budget allocated $50 million through the Renewable Energy Fund to assist with 'proof-of-concept' projects in known geothermal areas.\n\nBiomass power plants use crops and other vegetative by-products to produce power similar to the way coal-fired power plants work. Another product of biomass is extracting ethanol from sugar mill by-products. The GGAP subsidies for biomass include ethanol extraction with funds of $7.4M and petrol/ethanol fuel with funds of $8.8 million. The total $16.2M subsidy is considered as a renewable energy source subsidy.\n\nBiodiesel is an alternative to fossil fuel diesels that can be used in cars and other internal combustion engine vehicles. It is produced from vegetable or animal fats and is the only other type of fuel that can run in current unmodified vehicle engines. The advantages of using biodiesels are:\n\n\nSubsidies given to ethanol oils totaled $15 million in 2003–2004, $44 million in 2004–2005, $76 million in 2005–2006 and $99 million in 2006–2007. The cost for establishing these subsidies were $1 million in 2005–2006 and $41 million in 2006–2007.\n\nHowever, with the introduction of the Fuel Tax Bill, grants and subsidies for using biodiesel have been cut leaving the public to continue using diesel instead. The grants were cut by up to 50% by 2010–2014. Previously the grants given to users of ethanol-based biofuels were $0.38 per litre, which were reduced to $0.19 in 2010–2014.\n\nIn 2003, Australian total primary energy supply (TPES) was 112.6 million tonnes of oil equivalent (Mtoe) and total final consumption (TFC) of energy was 72.3 Mtoe.\n\nAustralia had a fixed carbon tax of A$23 ($23.78) a tonne on the top 500 polluters from July 2012 to July 2014.\nAustralia is the fourth-largest coal producing country in the world. Newcastle is the largest coal export port in the world. In 2005, Australia mined 301 million tonnes of hard coal (which converted to at least 692.3 million tonnes of co2 emitted ) and 71 million tonnes of brown coal (which converted to at least 163.3 million tonnes of co2). Coal is mined in every state of Australia. It provides about 85% of Australia's electricity production and is Australia's largest export commodity. 75% of the coal mined in Australia is exported, mostly to eastern Asia. In 2005, Australia was the largest coal exporter in the world with 231 million tonnes of hard coal. Australian black coal exports are expected by some to increase by 2.6% per year to reach 438 million tonnes by 2029–30, but the possible introduction of emissions trading schemes in customer countries as provided for under the Kyoto protocol may affect these expectations in the medium term.\n\nCoal mining in Australia has become more controversial because of the strong link between the effects of global warming on Australia and burning coal, including exported coal, and climate change, global warming and sea level rise. Coal mining in Australia will as a result have direct impacts on agriculture in Australia, health and natural environment including the Great Barrier Reef.\n\nThe IPCC AR4 Working Group III Report \"Mitigation of Climate Change\" states that under Scenario A (stabilisation at 450ppm) Annex 1 countries (including Australia) will need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% to 40% by 2020 and 80% to 95% by 2050. Many environmental groups around the world, including those represented in Australia, are taking direct action for the dramatic reduction in the use of coal as carbon capture and storage is not expected to be ready before 2020 if ever commercially viable.\n\nIn 2002, the Howard Government announced the finalisation of negotiations for a $25 billion contract with China for LPG. The contract was to supply 3 million tonnes of LPG a year from the North West Shelf Venture off Western Australia, and was worth between $700 million and $1 billion a year for 25 years. The members of the consortium which operates the North West Shelf Venture are Woodside Petroleum, BHP Billiton Petroleum, BP, Chevron, Shell and Japan Australia LNG. The price was guaranteed not to increase until 2031, and by 2015 China was paying one-third as were Australian consumers.\n\nIn 2007, there was another LPG deal with China worth $35 billion. The agreement was for the potential sale of 2 million to 3 million tonnes of LNG a year for 15 to 20 years from the Browse LNG project, off Western Australia, of which Woodside is the operator. The agreement was expected to bring in total revenues of $35 billion to $45 billion.\n\nSucceeding governments oversaw other contracts with China, Japan and South Korea, but none have required exporters to set aside supplies to meet Australia's needs. The price of LPG has historically been linked to oil prices, but the true price, costs and supply levels are presently too difficult to determine.\n\nSantos GLNG Operations, Shell and Origin Energy are major gas producers in Australia. Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG), led by Origin Energy, is the largest producer of natural gas in eastern Australia and a major exporter of liquefied natural gas to Asia. Santos is Australia's second-largest independent oil and gas producer. According to an ACCC, the demand for gas in the domestic east coast market is about 700 petajoules a year. Australia is expected to become the world's biggest LNG exporter by 2019, hurting supplies in the domestic market and driving up gas and power prices.\n\nIn 2017 the Australian government received a report from the Australian Energy Market Operator and one from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission showing expected gas shortages in the east coast domestic market over the next two years. The expected gas shortfall is 54 petajoules in 2018 and 48 petajoules in 2019. The federal government considered imposing export controls on gas to ensure adequate domestic supplies. The companies agreed to make sufficient supplies available to the domestic market until the end of 2019. On 7 September Santos pledged to divert 30 petajoules of gas from its Queensland-based Gladstone LNG plant slated for export into Australia's east coast market in 2018 and 2019. On 26 October 2017, APLNG agreed to increase gas to Origin Energy by 41 petajoules over 14 months, increasing APLNG's total commitment to 186 PJ for 2018, representing almost 30% of Australian east coast domestic gas market.\n\nThe price at which these additional supplies are to be made available has not been disclosed. On 24 August 2017, Orica chief executive Alberto Calderon described gas prices in Australia as ridiculous, saying that prices in Australia were more than double of what was being paid in China or Japan, adding that Australian producers could buy gas overseas (at much lower world prices) to free up domestic gas to sell at the same profit margin.\n\nIn the transport sector, fuel subsidies reduce petrol prices by $0.38/L. This is very significant, given current petrol prices in Australia of around $1.30/L. The acceptable petrol prices hence result in Australia's petroleum consumption at 28.9 GL every year.\n\nAccording to Greenpeace, removal of this subsidy would make petrol prices rise to around $1.70/L and thus could make certain alternative fuels competitive with petroleum on cost. The 32% price increase associated with subsidy removal would be expected to correspond to an 18% reduction in petrol demand and a Greenhouse Gases emission reduction of 12.5 Mt CO-e. The Petroleum Resource Rent Tax keeps oil prices low and encourages investment in the 'finite' supplies of oil, at the same time considering alternatives.\n\nThe subsidies for Oil-Diesel fuel rebate program are worth about $2 billion, which are much more than the grants devoted to renewable energy. Whilst renewable energy is out of scope at this stage, an alternative diesel–renewable hybrid system is highly recommended. If the subsidies for diesel were bounded with the renewable subsidies, remote communities could adapt hybrid electric generation systems. The Energy Grants Credit Scheme (EGCS), an off-road component is a rebate program for diesel and diesel-like fuels.\n\nCompanies involved in the extraction of the fossil fuel petroleum are given special deductions as follows:\n\nAustralia introduced a national energy rating label in 1992. The system allows consumers to compare the energy efficiency between similar appliances.\n\nThe responsible governmental agencies for energy policy are the Council of Australian Governments (COAG), the Ministerial Council on Energy (MCE), the Ministerial Council on Mineral and Petroleum Resources (MCMPR), the Commonwealth Department of Resources; Energy and Tourism (DRET), the Department of Environment and Heritage (DEH), the Australian Greenhouse Office (AGO), the Department of Transport and Regional Services, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), the Australian Energy Market Commission, the Australian Energy Regulator and the Australian Energy Market Operator.\n\nIn the 2004 White Paper \"Securing Australia's Energy Future\", a number of initiatives were announced to achieve the Australian Government's energy objectives. These include:\n\nCriticisms\n\nOn 11 December 2003, the Ministerial Council on Energy released a document entitled \"Reform of Energy Markets\". The overall purpose of this initiative was the creation of national electricity and natural gas markets rather than state-based provision of both. As a result, two federal level institutions, the Australian Energy Market Commission (AEMC) and the Australian Energy Regulator (AER), were created.\n\nQueensland's energy policy is based on the year 2000 document called Queensland Energy Policy: A Cleaner Energy Strategy. The Queensland Government assists energy development through the Queensland Department of Energy and is most noted for its contribution to coal mining in Australia.\n\nThe South Australian Government has developed an energy policy based on sustainability objective as well as on South Australia's Strategic Plan.\n\nA major priority of South Australia's Strategic Plan is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in South Australia to achieve the Kyoto target as a first step towards reducing emissions by 60% (to 40% of 1990 levels) by 2050.\n\nMeasures announced in South Australia include:\nIn 2009 Premier Mike Rann announced plans to increase the State's renewable energy production target to 33% by 2020. (Letter from Energy Minister Michael O'Brien 29/4/11)\n\nIn 2006 Victoria became the first state to have a renewable energy target of 10% by 2016. In 2010 the target was increased to 25% by 2020.\n\nNew South Wales has a renewable energy target of 20% by 2020. New South Wales had the world's most generous feed in tariff for solar power from 2010 – 2011 at A$0.60/kwh.\nThis 60c/kWh feed in tariff was revoked for new customers from 27 October 2010. Those in the scheme will get that feed in tariff until 31 December 2016. Current customers enter under a net feed in tariff, in which the power is used by the consumer (and is therefore worth to them whatever they would have paid for that power). Excess power is exported at a low rate (from 0c to 7.7c per kwh).\n\nIn some remote areas of WA, the use of fossil fuels is expensive thus making renewable energy supplies commercially competitive. Western Australia offers renewable energy subsidies including; solar heaters, Photovoltaic rebate program for installations at households, schools, factories and renewable Remote Power Generation Program of >$500,000 rebates for large off-grid systems.\n\nThe ACT Government's an integrated policy framework for managing the social, economic and environment challenges faced by the Territory in relation to energy production and use, was released on 28 September 2011. The policy is a continued commitment to maintain affordable and reliable electricity and gas supply to Canberra. The policy also establishes the key objective of achieving a more sustainable energy supply as the Territory moves to carbon neutrality by 2060.\n\nTasmania has a concession rebate and a life support discount. The Northern Territory has similar programs.\n\nIn 2001, the federal government introduced a Mandatory Renewable Energy Target (MRET) of 9,500 GWh of new generation, with the scheme running until at least 2020. This represents an increase of new renewable electricity generation of about 4% of Australia's total electricity generation and a doubling of renewable generation from 1997 levels. Australia's renewable energy target does not cover heating or transport energy like Europe's or China's, Australia's target is therefore equivalent of approximately 5% of all energy from renewable sources.\n\nThe Commonwealth and the states agreed in December 2007, at a Council of Australian Governments (COAG) meeting, to work together from 2008, to combine the Commonwealth scheme with the disparate state schemes, into a single national scheme. The initial report on progress and an implementation plan considered at a March 2008 COAG meeting. In May 2008, the Productivity Commission, the government's independent research and advisory body on a range of economic, social and environmental issues, claimed the MRET would drive up energy prices and would do nothing to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The Productivity Commission submission to the climate change review, stated that energy generators have warned that big coal-fired power stations are at risk of \"crashing out of the system\", and leaving huge supply gaps and price spikes if the transition is not carefully managed. This forecast has been described as a joke because up to A$20 billion compensation is proposed to be paid under the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme. In addition, in Victoria where the highest emitting power stations are located, the state government has emergency powers enabling it to take over and run the generating assets. The final design was presented for consideration at the September 2008 COAG meeting.\n\nOn 20 August 2009, the Expanded Renewable Energy Target increased the 2020 MRET from 9,500 to 45,000 gigawatt-hours, and continuing until 2030. This will ensure that renewable energy reaches 20% share of electricity supply in Australia by 2020. After 2020, the proposed Emissions Trading Scheme and improved efficiencies from innovation and manufacture was expected to allow the MRET to be phased out by 2030. The target was criticised as unambitious and ineffective in reducing Australia's fossil fuel dependency, as it only applied to generated electricity, but not to the 77% of energy production exported, nor to energy sources which are not used for electricity generation, such as the oil used in transportation. Thus 20% renewable energy in electricity generation would represent less than 2% of total energy production in Australia.\n\nComputer modelling by the National Generators Forum has signalled the price on greenhouse emissions will need to rise from $20 a tonne in 2010 to $150 a tonne by 2050 if the federal government is to deliver its promised cuts. Generators of Australia's electricity warned of blackouts and power price spikes if the federal government moved too aggressively to put a price on greenhouse emissions.\n\nSouth Australia achieved its target of 20% of renewable supply by 2014 three years ahead of schedule (i.e. in 2011). In 2008 it set a new target of 33% by 2020. New South Wales and Victoria have renewable energy targets of 20% and 25% respectively by 2020. Tasmania has had 100% renewable energy for a long time.\n\nIn 2011 the 'expanded MRET' was split into two schemes: a 41,000 GWh Large-scale Renewable Energy Target (LRET) for utility-scale renewable generators, and an uncapped Small-scale Renewable Energy Scheme for small household and commercial-scale generators.\n\nThe MRET requires wholesale purchasers of electricity (such as electricity retailers or industrial operations) to purchase renewable energy certificates (RECs), created through the generation of electricity from renewable sources, including wind, hydro, landfill gas and geothermal, as well as solar PV and solar thermal. The objective is to provide a stimulus and additional revenue for these technologies. Since 1 January 2011, RECs were split into small-scale technology certificates (STCs) and large-scale generation certificates (LGCs). RECs are still used as a general term covering both STCs and LGCs.\n\nIn 2014, the Abbott Government initiated the Warburton Review and subsequently held negotiations with the Labor Opposition. In June 2015, the 2020 LRET was reduced to 33,000 GWh. This will result in more than 23.5% of Australia's electricity being derived from renewable sources by 2020. The required gigawatt hours of renewable source electricity from 2017 to 2019 were also adjusted to reflect the new target.\n\nCoal is the most carbon-intensive energy source releasing the highest levels of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.\n\n\n\nCurrently has funded six projects to help reduce GHG emissions, which are summarised below\n\n82% of subsidies is concentrated in the Australian Government's 'Clean Coal Technology', with the remaining 18% of funds allocated to the renewable energy 'Project Solar Systems Australia' $75 million.\nThe LETDF is a new subsidy scheme aimed at fossil fuel energy production started in 2007.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2012 most states and territories in Australia implemented various feed-in tariff arrangements to promote uptake of renewable electricity, primarily in the form of rooftop solar PV systems. As system costs fell uptake accelerated rapidly (in conjunction with the assistance provided through the national-level Small-scale Renewable Energy Scheme (SRES)) and these schemes were progressively wound back.\n\nThe Australian results from the 1st Annual World Environment Review, published on 5 June 2007 revealed that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6073993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6073993", "title": "Ethel Pedley", "text": "Ethel Pedley\n\nEthel Charlotte Pedley (19 June 1859 – 6 August 1898) was an Australian author and musician.\nEthel Charlotte Pedley was born on 19 June 1859 at Acton, near London. She was the daughter of Frederick Pedley and his wife Eliza, née Dolby. Pedley began piano lessons aged 5. Pedley migrated to Australia with her family in the 1870s but returned to London to study at the Royal Academy of Music, where she studied with her uncle Prosper Sainton, professor of violin, and won a medal. She was also trained by her aunt, the famous contralto Charlotte Sainton-Dolby, at her Vocal Academy.\n\nPedley returned to Sydney in 1882, and began teaching singing and the violin. In 1896 Emmeline Woolley and Pedley visited London and persuaded the Associated Board of the Royal Academy of Music and the Royal College of Music to extend their examinations to the Australian colonies. Pedley was appointed the solo representative of the Royal Academy of Music for New South Wales. The first examiner visited in 1897.\n\nPedley's most well-known book is \"Dot and the Kangaroo\", which featured a little girl named Dot who becomes lost in the Australian outback, and is helped to find her way back home by a friendly kangaroo. The illustrations were drawn by Frank P. Mahony.\n\nPedley was a believer in the conservation of the Australian flora and fauna, and usually wrote her books from this perspective, singling out 'man' as disconnected from nature and the rest of the animals.\n\nEthel's preface to \"Dot and the Kangaroo\" is as follows:\n\n<poem style=\"font-style:italic\">\n</poem>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53201672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53201672", "title": "F Puppis", "text": "F Puppis\n\nThe Bayer designations f Puppis and F Puppis are distinct and refer to two different stars in the constellation Puppus:\n"}
{"id": "44940900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44940900", "title": "Geomorphology (journal)", "text": "Geomorphology (journal)\n\nGeomorphology is a peer-reviewed scientific journal about geomorphology.\n"}
{"id": "3821576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3821576", "title": "Hassi Messaoud", "text": "Hassi Messaoud\n\nHassi Messaoud () is a town in Ouargla Province, eastern Algeria, located southeast of Ouargla. As of 2008 it had a population of 45,147 people, up from 40,360 in 1998, and an annual population growth rate of 1.1%, the lowest in the province. Oil was discovered there in 1956 and the town's prominence has grown rapidly since then; it is considered as the First Energy town in Algeria where all the big oil and gas companies have offices and bases. It is an oil refinery town named after the first oil well. A water well, dug in 1917, can be found on the airport side of town. Today there are over 800 wells within a radius of the town.\n\nThe Name Hassi Messaoud means \"the well of Messaoud\" in Arabic, named after Messaoud Rouabeh, a well-digger in the region. Before the discovery of oil in the region, Hassi Messaoud was not very populated. After discovering oil in the region in the 1950s the French built two petroleum bases. After the nationalization of oil and gas in the early 70s, the bases became property of Sonatrach (the national oil and gas company).\n\nIn 1984, and after a new administrative zoning, Hassi Messaoud became a municipality (a local district) with a local assembly. After that date people started populating the town independently. Sonatrach has imported ready-built houses, approximately 2000 units. Now Hassi Messaoud is a town with more than 60,000 inhabitants (non official source), without counting those living in the oil and gas company bases. The town contains several bases for the oil and gas companies, where Algerian and foreign people are working and living. As of 2008, Hassi Messaoud has an oil field with estimated reserves of 8 billion barrels, and the Hassi R ̓Mel gasfield has estimated reserves of 50 trillion cubic feet of gas and 2 billion barrels of crude oil.\n\nIn 2010 Amnesty International reported that mob attacks against single women accused of being prostitutes were taking place in Hassi Messaoud. According to Amnesty International there are reports that \"some women have been sexually abused\" and were targeted \"not just because they are women, but because they are living alone and are economically independent.\"\n\nHassi Messaoud has a hot desert climate (Köppen climate classification \"BWh\") with long, extremely hot summers and short, warm winters and little rainfall throughout the year. Averages high temperatures are consistently over during 4 months (June, July, August and September) to reach a maximum of over in July but temperatures have been known to sometimes soar to or even above. Temperatures in January range from at night to . The annual average high temperature is and the average low temperature is . Average annual rainfall is about . The absolute highest temperature ever recorded is but the absolute lowest temperature ever recorded is .\n\nSand storms are common before summer time (from March to June), lasting from 6 hours to 4 days. These storms vary in their intensity but in general they prevent any outdoors activity and driving becomes very hazardous.\n\nThe town has a coach and taxi station which serves all major cities in the country. It is served by the Oued Irara Airport, located 8.5 km southeast of the city centre. It features domestic scheduled passenger service.\nHassi Messaoud lies on the N3 national highway between Touggourt and Biskra to the north and Illizi and Djanet to the south. To the north of the town, the N49 branches off the N3 to the west, connecting to Ouargla.\n\nThe commune is composed of seven localities:\n\nThe Hassi Messaoud oil field is a Cambrian sandstone reservoir 270 m thick in a dome 3300 m deep and 1300 km in area of the Oued Mya structural basin. The top of the dome is marked by an unconformity at the base of the Triassic, Mesozoic sediments consisting of salt, anhydrite, shale, limestone, dolomite and marls, all overlain by Mio-Pliocene sandstone. A refraction seismic survey showed the structure and the Md No. 1 well discovered oil in 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "579744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579744", "title": "International Union of Railways", "text": "International Union of Railways\n\nThe UIC () or International Union of Railways is an international rail transport industry body.\n\nThe railways of Europe originated as many separate concerns, and there were many border changes after World War I and the Treaty of Versailles. Colonial railways were the responsibility of the mother country. Into this environment the UIC was created on 17 October 1922, with the aim of standardising industry practices.\n\nTicket revenue sharing was originally undertaken with the UIC Franc currency equivalent. UIC classification and UIC Country Codes allowed precise determination of rolling stock capabilities and ownership, with wagons assigned unique UIC wagon numbers. The 1990s GSM-R radio telecommunication system is an international interoperability specification covering voice and signalling systems for railway communications whose specification is maintained by the International Union of Railways project ERTMS.\n\nThe UIC's mission is \"to promote rail transport at world level and meet the challenges of mobility and sustainable development.\"\n\nThe UIC's main objectives are to:\n\n\nWhen founded in 1922 the UIC had 51 members from 29 countries, including Japan and China. They were soon joined by the USSR, the Middle East and North Africa. Today, the UIC has 194 members across 5 continents. Of these there are:\n\nOn 12 November 2010, the UIC opened an African regional office in Tunis with the support of SNCFT.\n\nIn order to provide a common understanding and reduce potential confusion, the UIC has established standard international railway terminology and a trilingual (English-French-German) thesaurus of terms. The thesaurus was the result of cooperation with the European Conference of Ministers of Transport (ECMT/) and was published in 1995.\n\nThe UIC has established systems for the classification of locomotives and their axle arrangements, coaches and goods wagons.\n\nUIC plays an important role in standardization of railway parts, data and terminology. Therefore, UIC codes (also known as UIC leaflet) are developed since the beginning of UIC's work. A new term for these UIC leaflets is used by UIC for better understanding: International Railway Solution (IRS).\n\nSome UIC codes are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6450719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6450719", "title": "Joris van Spilbergen", "text": "Joris van Spilbergen\n\nJoris van Spilbergen (1568 in Antwerp – 1620 in Bergen op Zoom) was a Dutch naval officer.\nJoris van Spilbergen was born in Antwerp in 1568.\n\nHis first major expedition was in 1596, when he sailed to Africa.\n\nHe then left for Asia on 5 May 1601, from Veere, a seaport on the island of Walcheren in Zealand, in command of the fleet of the company of Balthazar de Moucheron (a trading company before the establishment of the VOC). His ships were the \"Ram\", \"Schaap\", and \"Lam\". Spilbergen met the king of Kandy (Sri Lanka) Vimala Dharma Suriya in 1602, and discussed the possibility of trade in cinnamon.\n\nIn 1607, Spilbergen, onboard \"Aeolus\", was with Jacob van Heemskerk at the Battle of Gibraltar.\n\nIn 1614, he sailed beyond the Strait of Magellan with an expedition of five ships and raided the Spanish settlements on the coast of Mexico and South America. He fought the Spanish at Callao, Acapulco and Navided. On October 26, he captured the pearl fishing ship \"San Francisco\" at Zacatula. He then sailed across the Pacific Ocean to the Mariana Islands, the Philippine Islands and eventually to Ternate in the Maluku Islands in March 1616. He circumnavigated the earth, and returned to the Dutch Republic in 1617.\n\nHe died a poor man in Bergen op Zoom in 1620.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001199", "title": "Lacus Gaudii", "text": "Lacus Gaudii\n\nLacus Gaudii (Latin for \"Lake of Delight\") is a small lunar mare in the Terra Nivium region of the Moon. It is located at 16.2° N, 12.6° E and is 113 km in diameter. The land lake borders with Lacus Hiemalis surrounding a small mountain formation in the middle, also in that location is a larger mountainous formation nearly surrounded by the small plain. Further south is Lacus Lenitatis and narrowing bordering to the west is Lacus Doloris. In that eastern corridor lies next to Montes Haemus and just about 10 km away is Mare Serenitatis, the terrain in between are small mountains. Southeast of the corridor is the crater Daubrée and the more prominent Menelaus.\n\nWest of the lake is the prominent crater Manilius. Inside the lake is Manilus' satellite crater lettered A in the eastern end and Z located in the middle.\n\n"}
{"id": "147093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147093", "title": "Lake Nemi", "text": "Lake Nemi\n\nLake Nemi (, , also called Diana's Mirror, ) is a small circular volcanic lake in the Lazio region of Italy south of Rome, taking its name from Nemi, the largest town in the area, that overlooks it from a height.\n\nThe lake is famous for its sunken Roman ships. These ships were very large and technologically advanced for their time.\n\nThe lake was sacred to the goddess Diana Nemorensis and the site of the festival Nemoralia. Near the sanctuary of Diana were found a number of diminutive bronze statues of draped women and men, each holding libation bowls and incense boxes. Four of these figures are now in the British Museum's collection. Emperors Caligula and Tiberius sailed Lake Nemi not merely to cool off in summer, but to assert themselves as Nemorensis, rulers aligning with the Stars, wedded to Earth's perpetual life-force.\n\nNear the temple of Diana was the sacred grove of Aricia. Here there was a priest called the Rex Nemorensis who would reign until he was killed by a challenger. This practice is described in the opening chapter of The Golden Bough by James George Frazer.\n\nAt the Hotel Diana, on the Western edge of the crater at Via Nemorense, there is a fine exhibit of the archeological excavation of the late 1920s, which exposed the enormous structure which Caligula built.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "10730840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10730840", "title": "Light echo", "text": "Light echo\n\nA light echo is a physical phenomenon caused by light reflected off surfaces distant from the source, and arriving at the observer with a delay relative to this distance. The phenomenon is analogous to an echo of sound, but due to the much faster speed of light, it mostly only manifests itself over astronomical distances.\n\nFor example, a light echo is produced when a sudden flash from a nova is reflected off a cosmic dust cloud, and arrives at the viewer after a longer duration than it otherwise would have taken with a direct path. Because of their geometries, light echoes can produce the illusion of superluminal speeds.\n\nLight echoes are produced when the initial flash from a rapidly brightening object such as a nova is reflected off intervening interstellar dust which may or may not be in the immediate vicinity of the source of the light. Light from the initial flash arrives at the viewer first, while light reflected from dust or other objects between the source and the viewer begins to arrive shortly afterward. Because this light has only traveled forward as well as away from the star, it produces the illusion of an echo expanding faster than the speed of light.\n\nIn the first illustration above, light following path A is emitted from the original source and arrives at the observer first. Light which follows path B is reflected off a part of the gas cloud at a point between the source and the observer, and light following path C is reflected off a part of the gas cloud perpendicular to the direct path. Although light following paths B and C appear to come from the same point in the sky to the observer, B is actually significantly closer. As a result, the echo of the event in an evenly distributed (spherical) cloud for example will appear to the observer to expand at a rate approaching or faster than the speed of light.\n\nAll reflected light rays that originate from the flash and arrive at the Earth together will have traveled the same distance. When the rays of light are reflected, the possible paths between the source and the Earth that arrive at the same time correspond to reflections on an ellipsoid, with the origin of the flash and the Earth as its two foci (see animation to the right). This ellipsoid naturally expands over time.\n\nThe variable star V838 Monocerotis experienced a significant outburst in 2002 as observed by the Hubble Space Telescope. The outburst proved surprising to observers when the object appeared to expand at a rate far exceeding the speed of light as it grew from an apparent visual size of 4 to 7 light years in a matter of months.\n\nUsing light echoes, it is sometimes possible to see the faint reflections of historical supernovae. Astronomers calculate the ellipsoid which has the Earth and a supernova remnant at its focal points in order to locate clouds of dust and gas at its boundary. Identification can be done using laborious comparisons of photos taken months or years apart, and spotting changes in the light rippling across the interstellar medium. By analyzing the spectra of reflected light, astronomers can discern chemical signatures of supernovae whose light reached Earth long before the invention of the telescope and compare the explosion with its remnants, which may be centuries or millennia old. The first recorded instance of such an echo was in 1936, but it was not studied in detail.\n\nAn example is supernova SN 1987A, the closest supernova in modern times. Its light echoes have aided in mapping the morphology of the immediate vicinity as well as in characterizing dust clouds lying further away but close to the line of sight from Earth.\n\nAnother example is the SN 1572 supernova observed on Earth in 1572, where in 2008, faint light-echoes were seen on dust in the northern part of the Milky Way.\n\nLight echoes have also been used to study the supernova that produced the supernova remnant Cassiopeia A. The light from Cassiopeia A would have been visible on Earth around 1660, but went unnoticed, probably because dust obscured the direct view. Reflections from different directions allow astronomers to determine if a supernova was asymmetrical and shone more brightly in some directions than in others. The progenitor of Cassiopeia A has been suspected as being asymmetric, and looking at the light echoes of Cassiopeia A allowed for the first detection of supernova asymmetry in 2010.\n\nYet other examples are supernovae SN 1993J and SN 2014J.\n\nLight echoes were used to determine the distance to the Cepheid variable RS Puppis to an accuracy of 1%. Pierre Kavella at the European Southern Observatory described this measurement as so far \"the most accurate distance to a Cepheid\".\n\nIn 1939, French astronomer Paul Couderc published a study entitled \"Les Auréoles Lumineuses des Novae\" (Luminous Haloes of the Novae). Within this study, Couderc published the derivation of echo locations and time delays in the paraboloid, rather than ellipsoid, approximation of infinite distance. However, in his 1961 study, Y.K. Gulak queried Couderc's theories: \"It is shown that there is an essential error in the proof according to which Couderc assumed the possibility of expansion of the bright ring (nebula) around Nova Persei 1901 with a velocity exceeding that of light.\" He continues: \"The comparison of the formulas obtained by the author, with the conclusions and formulas of Couderc, shows that the coincidence of the parallax calculated according to Coudrec's scheme, with parallaxes derived by other methods, could have been accidental.\"\n\nWithin the last decade, objects known either as quasar light echoes or quasar ionisation echoes have been investigated. A well studied example of a quasar light echo is the object known as Hanny's Voorwerp (HsV).\n\nHsV is made entirely of gas so hot — about 10,000 Celsius — that astronomers felt it had to be illuminated by something powerful. After several studies of light and ionisation echoes, it is thought they are likely caused by the 'echo' of a previously-active AGN that has shut down. Kevin Schawinski, a co-founder of the website Galaxy Zoo, stated: \"We think that in the recent past the galaxy IC 2497 hosted an enormously bright quasar. Because of the vast scale of the galaxy and the Voorwerp, light from that past still lights up the nearby Voorwerp even though the quasar shut down sometime in the past 100,000 years, and the galaxy's black hole itself has gone quiet.\" Chris Lintott, also a co-founder of Galaxy Zoo stated: \"From the point of view of the Voorwerp, the galaxy looks as bright as it would have before the black hole turned off – it's this light echo that has been frozen in time for us to observe.\" The analysis of HsV in turn has led to the study of objects called Voowerpjes and Green bean galaxies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5893895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893895", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in East Sussex", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in East Sussex\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in East Sussex, a county in South East England. East Sussex is bordered by Kent to the north, and Surrey to the south, and has an estimated population of 757,600 within an area of , therefore making it the 28th largest ceremonial county in the United Kingdom.\n\n, there are 64 sites designated within this Area of Search, 46 of which have been designated for their biological interest, 14 for their geological interest, and 4 for both biological and geological interest.\n\nIn England, the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which selects sites because of their flora, fauna, geological or physiographical features. Natural England took over the role of designating and managing SSSIs from English Nature in October 2006 when it was formed from the amalgamation of English Nature, parts of the Countryside Agency and the Rural Development Service.\n\nEast Sussex is, from a geological viewpoint, the southern anticline of the Weald. The South Downs contain numerous chalk hills, which continue along much of the southern area of the county. East Sussex is home to much marshland area, with large amounts to the east of Beachy Head.\n\nThe data in this table is taken from Natural England's website in the form of citation sheets for each SSSI.\n\n"}
{"id": "12571604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12571604", "title": "List of Star Control races", "text": "List of Star Control races\n\nThis is a list of fictional alien species that appeared in various games of the \"Star Control\" franchise.\n\nThe original \"Star Control\" game featured a melee combat mode where players could engage in combat using a variety of alien ships. However, \"Star Control II\" became critically acclaimed for its innovative storyline where the player must recruit the help of several memorable alien races. All Games praised the storyline based on the fact that \"races span a range of emotions\", resulting in an overall \"rare and praiseworthy design achievement\". GameSpot considers \"Star Control II\" one of the greatest games of all time, in part because \"the 18 different races in Star Control II were all distinctively different, and none of them fit the generic science-fiction stereotypes that have always been so common in games.\" This also earned the game a top 10 ranking for the best game worlds of all time among GameSpot readers, claiming that \"the extraterrestrial races you meet ... are what made the gameworld one of your favorites of all time.\" These exterrestrial races were also instrumental in earning the game a rank as one of the top 10 game endings of all time. \"The ending sequence was not only highly amusing, it also provided a great deal of closure, since it tied up all of the loose ends for each race.\n\nStar Control 3 took the template of races that the series had become known for and expanded upon it. Computer and Video Games felt the game lacked the appeal of its predecessor, but still offered praise for its \"brilliant characters\". According to GameSpot, \"the creepy critters and droids who inhabit Star Control 3 are its strongest point ..., all of them animatronically controlled renderings, and each with its own distinct personality. GameRevolution praised the game for its character design, noting that \"the new species vary in their traits and appearances so as to make the players interaction with each species an interesting experience of it's own.\"\n\nThe Androsynth are super-intelligent \"Homo sapiens\" clones. Genetically engineered for intellectual superiority, they were denied equal rights and forced into a life of work. As a result they grew to harbour deep hatred for their imprisoners. They went renegade, escaping Earth in one large movement, having secretly invented hyperspace travel before the Earthlings. The race found a new home in the Vulpecula constellation and allied with the Ur-Quan in their Hierarchy of Battle Thralls, hoping to defeat some of their old oppressors.\n\nIn the events of Star Control II the human Captain entered the Androsynth home system intent on contacting them, only to find the apparent remains of the Androsynth civilization on the second planet. Not a single Androsynth, dead or alive, was found among the scraps of their buildings and technology. Evidence was found of a recent breakthrough by the Androsynth in the field of interdimensional physics, leading to some cataclysmic event, but the exact nature of the calamity remained a mystery.\n\nThe Arilou suggest the Orz did something terrible to them after the Androsynth interdimensional discovery attracted their attention. The Arilou avoid discussing it further, warning that the mere knowledge of it could put all of humanity in danger of suffering the same fate.\n\nThe Arilou (short for Arilou Lalee'lay) are aligned with the Alliance of Free Stars. They resemble the little green men of popular science fiction, and their ships also resemble stereotypical flying saucers. The Arilou live outside the galaxy, out of truespace and hyperspace. This little \"nook\" is called QuasiSpace, and it contains their homeworld \"Falayalaralfali\". Well versed in information gathering and intergalactic or interdimensional travel, they know many races and beings that Earthlings do not. The Arilou would rather keep it that way—they claim that things exist, the mere knowledge of which is dangerous.\n\nThe Arilou have had much interaction with Humans throughout mankind's evolution, and hint at a \"vested interest\" in the Human race. They visit Earth often to \"check up\" on Humans, although their true motive remains unrevealed. It's likely no coincidence that the Arilou appeared and joined the Alliance of Free Stars the day after the humans entered the war, and abruptly left again the day Earth was slave shielded. They have peaceful relations with the Umgah race, even after the tricksters joined the Ur-Quan Hierarchy of Battle Thralls. Orz are another dimension-traveling race; however, the Arilou say that is where their similarity ends.\n\nDue to their age and partially due to their time in QuasiSpace, Arilou DNA is prone to abnormalities and defects, and human DNA can be \"spliced in\" to alleviate this. Like many of \"Star Control 3\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"revelations\", this is generally disregarded as non-canonical by fans of the series, although it would explain alien abductions.\n\nThe Chenjesu are a crystalline silicon race of aliens who interact with their ships using lightning-like \"fingers\". The only other known beings of similar composition are the extinct Taalo.\n\nThey naturally evolved intelligence, and since they have no natural predators, they are entirely non-aggressive. Their most preferred activity is calm philosophical discourse.\n\nThe Chenjesu were the first race humans came in contact with, in 2112 at Ceres, when they arrived to offer the humans membership in the Alliance of Free Stars to fight the Ur-Quan.\n\nAfter successfully resisting the Ur-Quan for a long time, the Ur-Quan deployed their precursor battle platform, the Sa-Matra, and destroyed the Chenjesu and Mmrnmhrm fleets. The two races both chose to be slave shielded on Procyon II and synthesized their races to create a more powerful composite race. This synthesis was powered by solar energy and expected to take 60 years. In Star Control II the human Captain used the Mycon \"Sun Device\" to supply the energy needed to accelerate the process and create the Chmmr race.\n\nThe Earthlings are a member race of the Alliance of Free Stars in \"Star Control\", and the founding race of the New Alliance in \"Star Control II\". They rely on weaponry derived from the 1980s SDI projects, such as point-defense lasers and guided nuclear missiles. In the Star Control universe, humanity sealed away the nuclear weapons from the Cold War era in 'Peace Vaults'; when they revealed how much ordnance they had stockpiled, even the more technologically advanced races were in awe of the sheer volume of destructive power.\n\nThe Ilwrath resemble large red spiders with four visible (probably compound) eyes on top of their head, large mandibles where eyes would usually be in humanoids, and below that a mouth. Their mandibles allow them to eat, communicate, and have uses as weapons. Their appendages will regenerate if lost or damaged, often a result of their many rituals of pain. When talking, they sound bloodthirsty and sometimes draw words out, and sometimes inhale when talking about their religious tortures with fondness. In the game, every word they speak is capitalized. Their ship type, the Avenger, is armed with a short-range flamethrower and a cloaking device, making it one of the trickier ships to pilot and to pilot against.\n\nThe Ilwrath consider themselves evil, believing their gods would never reward a species that was not evil with their baleful grace. Since evil is sanctioned by their culture, it would be \"bad\" to do otherwise, and the Ilwrath grow extremely angry when people point this out. The Pkunk have a theory that the Ilwrath were once so noble, pure and good that they could get no better. Then they paradoxically did become better which somehow \"flipped\" them over to being as evil as possible (a programming joke, see Signed number representations). Religion is the primary factor in Ilwrath society. They worship two gods, Dogar and Kazon; later shown to be part of a particularly despicable Umgah 'practical joke'. They begin their religion at birth, believing that their first frenzied gorging is the hatchlings showing their respect to the gods. During their \"Dark Ages\", the Ilwrath worshipped many gods from Awk of the Seds (a reference to the Unix tools AWK and sed) to Zith of the Pelt. After a priestly body was formed, the priests announced that only Dogar and Kazon were the true gods and should be worshipped. All heretics were to be eaten, and all possessions were delivered to holy sites or priestly dwellings. The priests controlled the Ilwraths' method of worshipping until the Ilwrath could \"Do No Better\". In modern times, the Ilwrath believe their gods speak to them through their hyperwave radio.\n\nFor eons the Ilwrath lived a subsistence existence (\"appendage to mandible\"). Thousands of years before the game, the Ilwrath started worshipping Dogar and Kazon. They advanced their technology to create more sophisticated tools for murder. Then, c. 2126, the Ur-Quan improved their starships and weapons and they joined their Hierarchy of Battle Thralls. During the war, the Ilwrath attacked the Humans, and probably also ate them. When Earth fell to the Ur-Quan, their gods made clear their desire for death by the billions. The Ilwrath transported thousands of portable altars and millions of blood gowns and fillet knives to Earth, but were disappointed when the Ur-Quan commanded that the humans be left alive. After the Alliance of Free Stars fell, they used native animals for their religious ceremonies, until all the lifeforms on their planet were extinct. In c. 2147, the Ilwrath believed that they received guidance to attack the Pkunk, and use them for their ceremonies. Sometime within the 5-year timespan of \"Star Control 2\" from 2155 to 2159 or 2160, depending on events, the player has the opportunity to use a hyperwave caster to impersonate Dogar and Kazon. If the player orders them to stop attacking the Pkunk and seek other prey, the Ilwrath attack the Thraddash.\n\nThe Mmrnmhrm ( ) are a sentient robotic race of unknown origin. They resemble a series of metal discs with a sensor in the top disc, probably acting as \"eyes\" to the Mmrnmhrm. Where the Mmrnmhrm came from is unknown - their Mother Ark arrived in our region of the galaxy and promptly built a large number of Mmrnmhrm and then shut down. Mmrnmhrm have no reproductive organs and cannot build more of their kind.\n\nThey quickly met and befriended the Chenjesu, and they shared the same region of space in peaceful coexistence. When the Ur-Quan armada appeared they were the core group that formed the Alliance of Free Stars to try and fight back the enslavers. In \"Star Control\", the Mmrnmhrm played the part of sidekicks to the Chenjesu. Plot-wise they had little weight or importance of their own.\n\nThe Mmrnmhrm were forced to surrender after the Ur-Quan deployed the Sa-Matra against them and the Chenjesu. The Mmrnmhrm and Chenjesu opted to be slave shielded together on the Chenjesu homeworld at Procyon and joined to become the Chmmr race.\n\nThe Mycon resemble fungi 0.5 to 3.5 m tall that thrive in hostile, volcanic environments created for themselves by implanting \"Deep Children\" (living terraforming devices) under the crust of a blue, life-bearing planet. The outcome is known as a \"Shattered World\" with significant crust destabilization and rivers of magma on the surface. Amphibole structures allow them to withstand such extreme environments. Star Control 3 revealed them to be terraforming tools of the Precursors, whose programming drifted after their Creators' mysterious disappearance. Mycon reproduce by budding and offspring apparently reach instant maturity. They can genetically modify themselves by thought.\n\nMycon are hard to understand. Mycon ramblings seldom seem to attach any relevance to what's said to them even when they acknowledge the presence of others. Mycon receive select memories of their forebears at birth and dead Mycon from millennia ago can speak through their descendants, one of the few times a Mycon will refer to itself as \"I\". They are lucid when presented with knowledge of a world ideal for their Deep Children.\n\nA central concept to the race is \"Juffo-Wup\", the hot light in the darkness, which is like a religion for the Mycon. Mycon live for it, and only for it. Juffo-Wup seems to be positive, connected to them or their spread. Related are the \"Non\", what is not Juffo-Wup, and \"Void\", what Non that does not become Juffo-Wup must become Void. Juffo-Wup seems to refer to the Mycon and anything under their control, Non is other life and planets that the Mycon have not yet violently terraformed to their liking, and Void is anything else, such as space or dust. The Mycon claim that Juffo-Wup recognizes Non that cannot be turned into Void at a certain time. The Ur-Quan are an example of this. Instead, the Mycon will attempt to ally with the Non until such time as they can destroy it, turning it into Void.\n\nMycon are capable of clearly purposeful action and pursue large-scale objectives. The specific nature of those objectives is not clear; they are the only known race to actively seek out the Ur-Quan to become willing members of the Hierarchy. The Mycon have existed for over two hundred thousand years, though their Sphere of Influence is only medium-sized.\n\nDuring the second game, they fight against the Alliance of Free Stars. After the Alliance's collapse they serve as unattended combat thralls of the Kzer-Za, who are otherwise preoccupied, and only concern themselves with the spread of Juffo-Wup. The Mycon spread was responsible for the cataclysmic destruction of the Syreen homeworld Syra, and the almost total extermination of their race. When the Syreen find out, they trick the Mycon into an ambush and destroy their fleet of Podships.\n\nDuring the third game, the League can learn the secrets of the Deep Children, which appear to be young Mycon. They appear to be born with their own distinct personalities, but normally the elders catch them and imprint their own personalities into them, transforming their mentality to that of the \"elder\" Mycon. In effect, they are mentally enslaved by their elders at birth. As with all SC3 changes to the races, this is considered non-canon by the fanbase and the creators of the Star Control universe.\n\nA powerful device, the Plasma Regroover, could be used to undo the Precursor programming of the Mycons, essentially transforming all Kessari quadrant Mycons into Deep Children.\n\nThe Shofixti are a marsupial-like species that were uplifted by the Yehat. Their culture has a code of honor similar to Bushidō, and their spacecraft are equipped with a powerful self-destruct bomb called a \"Glory Device\" that makes their otherwise weak Scout a dangerous kamikaze weapon.\n\nWith their friends the Yehat, at the beginning of the Ur-Quan Slave War they joined the Alliance of Free Stars against the Hierarchy of Battle Thralls. At the end of the war (between \"Star Control I\" and \"II\"), after the conquest of the Humans and the withdrawal of the Yehat, the Shofixti caused their own sun to go nova with a Precursor device to destroy the Ur-Quan invasion fleet. This destroyed their entire species, with the exception of a group of female Shofixti in cryogenic suspension in Admiral ZEX's zoo and the brothers Tanaka and Katana who continued to patrol their sterile home system. The Shofixti are capable of very rapid breeding, such that it is possible in Star Control II to repopulate the Shofixti race by bringing the survivors of the two genders together, giving a significant increase in manpower to the New Alliance in only a few months.\n\nSpathi resemble shellfish with large familial units, often numbering in the tens of thousands, with one female parent. They receive only a small amount of attention from their parent, and it is rare to be referred to directly by name. Spathi culture is based almost entirely around cowardice, paranoia and self-preservation. Their cowardice makes them easily bullied into doing things against their will. Dialogue with Spathi contains references to \"monsters\" and a supposed \"Ultimate Evil\", which lurks just outside the range of the most sensitive sensors. This rampant neurosis makes them a favorite target for the pranks of the Umgah. All Spathi technology was developed as a response to fear; they went from stone age technology to primitive nuclear-powered rockets in under a century, purely to get off their planet to escape predators that suddenly appeared on their homeworld. (These predators were introduced into their environment by the Umgah, of course.) They resided for a time on Spathiwa's moon because they feared these \"Evil Ones\". Spathi will fight if they cannot run away or if their allies are scarier than their enemies and force them to. Their ship design reflects their personalities; the Eluder is extremely fast, packs in a huge crew (to reduce any individual crewman's chance of dying in combat) and has its most powerful weapon mounted on the rear so it can be fired while running away.\n\nThe Spathi were defeated by the Ur-Quan before the first war erupted. They were offered the usual terms of slavery: become Battle Thralls or be forever encased beneath an impenetrable shield. The Spathi were ecstatic at the prospect of a life of safety beneath a permanent shield, however, due to the Umgah delivering their response deciding to play a joke and swapping the white (fallow slave) baton with the black, they accidentally became battle thralls and were forced to fight against the Alliance of Free Stars. After the first war concluded, the Spathi and Ilwrath were stationed on Earth's moon to ensure that the defeated humans did not try to break the conditions of their surrender. Shortly after, the Ilwrath left and the Spathi began to \"strategically redeploy\" themselves farther and farther from Earth. At the time of \"Star Control II\", they are stationed on Pluto, leaving a few bio-droids on Earth's moon to make it look like they were still there. After the player clears the \"Evil Ones\" from Spathiwa for them, the Spathi briefly join the New Alliance, but after studying the shield around Earth, they abruptly left the Alliance to encase themselves in an Ur-Quan slave shield.\n\nThe Syreen are a melange of \"green-skinned space babe\" clichés, full of double entendres and a phallic starship, the Penetrator. The Syreen are biologically compatible with humans. This is an acknowledged evolutionary impossibility (two life forms never evolve in exactly the same way in separate biosystems) and would have been examined had the races not been engaged in a fight for their lives when they met. Their name is a reference to the Sirens in Greek mythology, whose enchanting song brought sailors dangerously close to nearby cliffs, where they would crash on the rocks and drown. Syreen look like blue-skinned humans with slightly luminescent eyes and \"certain parts\".\n\nThe Syreen evolved on the lush world of Syra, which was Earth's near twin, though warmer and somewhat more hospitable. It hosted a peaceful utopia in harmony with nature from agrarian tribes to the first steps of interstellar exploration, until a stray asteroid smashed into the world and penetrated into the mantle. A year later, a series of supervolcanoes and fissures erupted planetwide, incinerated Syra's continents, poisoned its atmosphere, and shattered the crust. The largely female Space Patrol was the only faction off-planet, leaving the race with under 10000 members, 500 male. They added stardrives to anything that could be made to hold air and set out to the stars. Several decades later, the sublight Habitat fleet found itself in the middle of the Alliance-Hierarchy war and joined the Alliance out of necessity, being unable to defend itself. When the Alliance fell, the Syreen chose imprisonment on their world over thralldom as their slavery. Since the Syreen had none, the Ur-Quan gave them the terran planet of Gaia in the Betelgeuse system as the closest equivalent. When the human Captain asks for Syreen aid against the Ur-Quan in Star Control II they are initially reluctant to risk losing their new home, but when the \"asteroid\" that destroyed Syra is revealed to be a Mycon Deep Child terraformer, the Syreen join the Captain in return for revenge against the Mycon. They retrieved their starships, destroyed the Mycon fleet and joined the New Alliance against the Ur-Quan.\n\nTalana, clad in a near-exact replica of Princess Leia's slave girl outfit, is the commander of the Ur-Quan resupply starbase orbiting Gaia at the time of \"Star Control II\". The player delivers to her proof of the Mycon's culpability and has the ability to engage in heavily implied sexual relations. The two go on to have children.\n\nDeveloper Paul Reiche III addressed the Syreen in a questions-and-answers session in 2007, describing the Syreen song's strength as a \"glass of white wine\" in comparison to the Dnyarri compulsion being \"intravenous lab alcohol\" plus a \"horse tranquilizer\". In the same session, he stated that the Syreen are supposed to always be \"sexy and strong\", criticising their graphic design in the sequel as \"spooky and unpleasant\".\n\nThe Umgah were the second race in the quadrant (after the Thraddash) to be defeated by the Ur-Quan and to join their Hierarchy of Battle Thralls. The Umgah are large, pink or lilac-colored blobs, with several mouths, eyes, and tentacles at seemingly random positions in their bodies. All Umgah are born with agoraphobia, and prefer biotic environments in their ships. They are immensely skilled at bioengineering and often add or remove limbs and organs from themselves for fun.\n\nUmgah discussion is full of jokes, and their sense of humor is renowned (or, more accurately, feared) throughout the galaxy. Umgah \"jokes\" include using a HyperWave caster to send messages to other civilizations, claiming to be the Ilwrath Gods or the Spathi \"Grand Master Planet Eater\", and changing the Spathi response to the Ur-Quan surrender terms. Their pranks have resulted in several thousand Spathi dead of acute anxiety, a six-year holy war by the Ilwrath against the Pkunk, and the Spathi coerced in to serving as Battle Thralls instead of fallow slaves as they desired.\n\nWhen the Arilou discovered a living Talking Pet, they took it to the Umgah for medical treatment. The Umgah were able to restore it to health, but their genetic alterations restored the full psychic potential of the creature, a Dnyarri, and led to the entire Umgah race being psychically dominated. The Captain later freed the Umgah from the Dynarri's control.\n\nThe Ur-Quan Kzer-Za (referred to simply as Ur-Quan until the appearance of the Kohr-Ah in StarCon II) are the main villains of the series. They were originally large brown centipede-like creatures who evolved from solitary hunters on their harsh home planet. While they were still using crude atomic vehicles to explore their system, the Ur-Quan encountered the Taalo. The fiercely territorial Ur-Quan attacked them, but the patient Taalo eventually won the Ur-Quan's friendship—the only race to ever do so. The Taalo convinced the Ur-Quan to join the Sentient Milieu, a cooperative of alien races. Due to their solitary nature, the Ur-Quan were frequently used as scouts and explorers and were active in finding Precursor artifacts.\n\nAfter many centuries in the Milieu an Ur-Quan scout mission discovered the Dnyarri, who quickly enslaved or destroyed the entire Milieu. The Dnyarri genetically experimented on the Brown Ur-Quan and separated them into two sub-species: the Green Ur-Quan, to be scientists and technicians and the Black Ur-Quan for basic soldiers and laborers. (No further mention is made of Brown Ur-Quan.) After many centuries of mindless enslavement, and at great cost, the Ur-Quan managed to free themselves and defeat the Dnyarri.\n\nThe two sub-species of the Ur-Quan developed doctrines to ensure they would not be slaves again. The green Ur-Quan, renamed the Ur-Quan Kzer-Za in honor of the scientist who freed them, devised the \"Path of Now and Forever\", which states that all non-Ur-Quan sentient life be enslaved to the Ur-Quan as battle thralls, or forever be imprisoned on their planets under impenetrable force-fields. The Black Ur-Quan, renamed the Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah after their new leader, felt that only their \"Eternal Doctrine\", the annihilation of non-Ur-Quan life, would keep them safe from slavery. This led to a war between the Kohr-Ah and the Kzer-Za known as The Doctrinal Conflict, which devastated both sides. The Kzer-Za eventually triumphed through the discovery of an enormous Precursor battle platform named the Sa-Matra or 'Great Trophy'. Defeated, the Kohr-Ah were sent in the opposite direction of the galaxy as the Kzer-Za, with the understanding that when the two species met again, they would fight The Doctrinal Conflict once more, with the victor claiming the Sa-Matra.\n\nThe VUX are green, tentacled creatures with a long snout and one visible eye. They are noted for their fiendishly extreme dislike of humans (with the exception of Admiral ZEX, a sexual deviant who is attracted to humans), and will be more than happy to engage in combat whenever the revolting visage of a human appears on their communication screens. They are referred to in all capital letters by nearly every other alien race in the game, including themselves, and their captains also capitalize their three-letter names as well. This has caused the humans to joke that VUX stands for Very Ugly Xenoform.\n\nThe first encounter between humans and VUX was between Captain Rand and an unknown VUX captain. Upon seeing the new alien species for the first time, Rand burst out with the first thing that came to mind, which happened to be a comment about how disgustingly ugly the alien was. Rand was unaware that the VUX translating technology was so far advanced that his words were relayed to the VUX captain perfectly. This botched first encounter between the two races soured relations long enough for the Ur-Quan Kzer-Za to subjugate the VUX who chose to become battle thralls. The VUX then eagerly fight against the humans. In \"Star Control II\" it is revealed that the VUX's reason for not joining the Alliance was due to their own extreme disgust with the appearance of humans. Captain Rand's overheard comment had been merely a scapegoat, for they find humans far more disgusting than humans find them.\n\nIn Star Control 3, they are revealed to be \"half\" of the Vyro-Ingo race, and can be reunited in the course of the storyline. As with all SC3 changes to the races, this is considered non-canon by the fanbase and the creators of the Star Control universe.\n\nThe Yehat are fearsome and honorable pterodactyl-like creatures who were allied with the Alliance of Free Stars in \"Star Control\". For some reason they speak with a notable Scottish accent when their language is translated to English. The Yehat are ruled over by a Queen, who rules over the various Yehat clans. Historically, this has been one from the Veep-Neep Clan. The Yehat are very close allies with the Shofixti.\n\nIn \"Star Control I\" the Yehat are the backbone of the Alliance Starfleet, due to their advanced weapons technology and their intensely martial society. The rule of the Veep-Neep Queen is based on the Yehat never being defeated under a Veep-Neep, so to save face, the Queen orders them to defect to the Ur-Quan side late in the war. This is a source of great shame to many Yehat, compounded when their friends the Shofixti chose to annihilate their species in a blaze of glory rather than surrender.\n\nAs such, at the beginning of \"Star Control II\", the Yehat are Ur-Quan battle thralls, and while sympathetic to the human Captain they will not give any aid. Once the Captain brings them evidence that their adopted children, the Shofixti, are still alive, it triggers a civil war among the Yehat. Eventually the rebels win and the Veep-Neep Queen is deposed and the Yehat join the New Alliance.\n\nThe Pkunk are an offshoot of the Yehat race. In \"Star Control II\" they decide to reunite with their Yehat brethren, despite the fact that the Yehat despise them. The human Captain tries to dissuade them, but eventually the Pkunk make contact with the Yehat and the Yehat seemingly destroy them. In the final battle against the Sa-Matra, a combined Pkunk and Yehat fleet arrives to reinforce the Captain, and they reveal that after much perseverance the Pkunk persuaded the Yehat to accept them after all, and the Yehat even chose a Pkunk Queen as the replacement for their deposed Veep-Neep queen.\n\n\"Star Control II\" introduced eleven playable races: Chmmr, Druuge, Melnorme, Orz, Pkunk, Slylandro, Supox, Thraddash, Ur-Quan Kohr-Ah, Utwig, and Zoq-Fot-Pik.\n\nThe Chmmr (pronounced \"ch'mer\" with 'ch' as in \"chance\") are a fusion of the crystalline Chenjesu and the mechanical Mmrnmhrm. The species was formed in \"Star Control II\", when the player uses the Sun Device to speed up the fusion process, which would have normally taken several decades. They ally with humans and are needed to complete the game and destroy the Sa-Matra.\n\nIt's unclear whether the Chmmr race is what the Chenjesu and Mmrnmhrm intended to become, or an unintended consequence of the Captain's interference in the synthesis process. They have assumed the Chenjesu's old position as the unofficial leaders of the New Alliance.\n\nThe appearance of the Chmmr was changed slightly in \"Star Control 3\". They are still a mixture of mechanical and crystalline objects, but the bond appears to be less complete, and they float. The interior of the structure shines moving lights through the crystals depending on the mood of the Chmmr. In Star Control 3 the Chmmr are separated into Chenjesu and Mmrnmhrm by a Daktaklakpak device, but the player again joins the two races using another sun device.\n\nThe Dnyarri are a race of small brown toad-like creatures, physically weak but with an extremely powerful ability to mentally enslave other sentients. An Ur-Quan scout mission discovered the Dnyarri and was forced to bring thousands of Dnyarri to the heart of the Sentient Milieu. The Dnyarri used their psychic powers to dominate the minds of the Milieu races, conquering the entire Milieu in record time. The Taalo were immune, so the Dnyarri compelled the other races of the Milieu to annihilate them. The Ur-Quan were the favored slaves of the Dnyarri, and the most susceptible to their psychic powers. The Dnyarri began to genetically experiment and separated the Brown Ur-Quan into two sub-species: the Green Ur-Quan were scientists and administrators and the Black Ur-Quan were basic soldiers and laborers. As far as anyone knows, the original Brown Ur-Quan became extinct.\n\nOver thousands of years, the Dnyarri eventually became lax in their mental domination. A green Ur-Quan scientist named Kzer-Za noticed that the Dnyarri \"detached\" psychic control from an Ur-Quan suffering near-lethal pain. Using one of the few moments of mental freedom the Dnyarri gave their slaves, he injected his body with a lethal and painful poison, and used the mental freedom to broadcast the news across the empire. Ur-Quan slaves everywhere began burning themselves and hacking their own bodies to give them the freedom needed to kill the nearest Dnyarri. This was refined into a brain implant known as an Excruciator which constantly causes the user to feel extreme pain, making them unbearable for Dnyarri to control, but leaving the Ur-Quan's body whole and functional.\n\nNow free, the Ur-Quan decided that extinction was too good for the Dnyarri. Instead the Dnyarri were genetically modified into sub-sentient \"Talking Pets\", retaining psychic powers only to allow translation and communication with alien species, something the Ur-Quan now considered demeaning.\n\nStar Control II players have a chance to interact with a Dnyarri. An Ur-Quan wreck was discovered by the Arilou, which included a wounded Talking Pet that the Arilou gave to the Umgah, who possessed better biological and medicinal technologies. The Umgah saved the creature, but accidentally unlocked the Talking Pet's latent powers; the Dnyarri put his psychic powers to use and took over the Umgah home planet. If the player forces the Dnyarri to reveal itself without adequate protection, the Dnyarri will compel the player to fly into the middle of the Ur-Quan civil war battlefield to await death at the hands of his enemies. The player must find a Taalo mind shield, which provides near-immunity to the Dnyarri to allow the player to defeat it and free the Umgah. Once captured, the Dnyarri proves essential in the attack on the Sa-Matra by creating an illusionary diversion, distracting the Ur-Quan defense fleet and allowing the player to attack the Sa-Matra with minimal defenses. While the Dnyarri will tell his story, and the story of his race, the Taalo shield is not perfect; if the Dnyarri grows impatient or angry, he can still exert enough psychic control to force the player to stop asking questions, which hints at the malicious nature of the Dnyarri. The Dnyarri was \"accidentally\" left in the hold of the Captain's flagship, which was sacrificed to destroy the Sa-Matra, while the Captain and his crew ejected in an escape pod. The game's credit sequence reveals that the Dnyarri managed to get away from the ship at the last second.\n\nThe Druuge are a race of horned, pig-like aliens that are notorious for their insatiable greed and callous treatment of other races. Their planet and the entirety of its resources are owned by the Crimson Corporation, of which every Druuge is a member and shareholder. They believe that the purpose of every individual Druuge is to serve the corporation; those who relinquish their membership are convicted of stealing corporate air, and are instantly sentenced to death. Anyone who threatens the group's profit margin due to illness, debt, or old age is thrown into the furnaces. The Druuge justify their actions with conveniently convoluted legal and ethical systems. For example, they hold unarmed travelers in their territory responsible for encouraging piracy, as their vulnerable ships are likely to attract belligerent plunderers. Therefore, in order to prevent piracy, any Druuge vessel may attack and plunder such ships and penalize their crews with indefinite slavery. Their ships consume crew to fuel the engines, and the player can pay for items and resources by selling crew members. This has an increasingly negative effect back home if done. There is always a better way to get the Druuge's few important items. The Druuge's unscrupulous personality was inspired by Paul Reiche's negotiations with TSR and Electronic Arts.\n\nThe Melnorme are a race of merchants, primarily in the business of buying and selling information. The name is a reference to Mel Tormé, the singer. They provide history, current events, fuel, and technology in return for biological data and the locations of certain colorful worlds assembled (or found) by the Precursors known as Rainbow Worlds. They use large \"Trader\" vessels to seek out, contact, and strike deals with potential customers. Though in possession of a great deal of information and technology, the Melnorme come across as benign and harmless. While trading with them is not required to complete \"Star Control II\", abstaining from it makes the game vastly harder to finish.\n\nThe Melnorme are highly secretive of themselves and their origins, but their similarities have led many to believe that the Melnorme are the descendants of the Mael-Num. This link was later confirmed outside of the game by the game designers. While they are technically ready to divulge such information, the prices are ludicrous. To learn why their bridge turns purple, for instance, costs more credits than the player can possess in the game. They based their culture entirely on equivalent trade and reject the concept of charity, finding it highly offensive. Though the Melnorme are by definition mercantile, they deal fairly with the protagonist and sell trustworthy information. They place a great emphasis on colour, to the point of basing their own names on different shades, such as Trade Master Greenish of the starship \"Inevitably Successful in All Circumstances\".\n\nThe Orz are fish-like creatures that live in what used to be Androsynth space. They are yellow and roughly spherical, with a stub too small to be a tail, two eyes on stalks, a large set of gills, four tentacles, and a beak. Their ships are filled with liquid ethanol, and they appear to be somewhat similar to parrotfish. The Orz language is excessively unorthodox, and translation computers in the game are not particularly good at deciphering it. With effort from the player at least some degree of understanding can be gained. They can join an alliance with the humans. This race has been described by reviewer Francois Laramee as \"disturbingly scary\".\n\nThe Arilou imply that the Orz are manifestations of a single extra-dimensional being; even the Orz refer to themselves as 'fingers'. In essence, all Orz are the same creature. This was confirmed by the game's developers, Fred Ford and Paul Reiche III, in a chat on EFnet in 1998.\n\nIn \"Star Control II\", the Orz seemed to have displaced the Androsynth, who were apparently conducting experiments with other dimensions. This made them visible to the Orz. As a result, the Androsynth disappeared, leaving their cities behind in ruins. The Orz are very sensitive about the Androsynth, and will fight when pressured to tell about their fate. According to the Arilou, even knowing too much about other dimensions makes one vulnerable to extra-dimensional dangers, such as the Orz, and the Arilou suggest that this is what happened to the Androsynth.\n\nThis ominous pattern continues in \"Star Control 3\", in which the Orz destroy the Supox, for reasons that are not entirely clear. Later on, the Orz betray their alliances to the League and attack the player. Since the Orz of \"Star Control 3\" followed the trends set in the game before, it could be argued that the Orz were the race most faithfully carried over into \"Star Control 3\", which was otherwise widely derided for continuity problems and ham-handed retconning.\n\nThe Pkunk are a race of bird-like offshoots of the Yehat. They ally with the protagonist in \"Star Control II\" as soon as he meets them. They resemble a stereotypical phony psychic, consistently agreeing with anything mystical the player says and basing all their decisions on universal harmony and similar grand-sounding concepts. However, the Pkunk really are powerful psychics who provide hints to the player, even going so far as actual clairvoyance. The Pkunk believe that their psychotic and genocidal neighbors, the Ilwrath, were perfect beings in their past lives, and that the karmic consequence of their excessive goodness was their totally evil reincarnation. To avoid such a fate, the Pkunk strive to remain just short of perfection. They accomplish this by being slightly annoying to whoever they encounter. When flying their ships in battle, they constantly taunt and insult their opponents, a practice that powers their ships. They state that, as they are so inherently happy and carefree, they must work themselves up by screaming insults. Fitting with their emphasis on past lives and mysticism, destroyed Pkunk ships can be supernaturally reborn, suddenly rejoining the battle with all their energy restored and crew revived.\n\nThe Slylandro are a race of ancient and friendly gas bag people that inhabit a gas giant planet in star system Beta Corvi they call Source. The Slylandro are restricted to a narrow band on their surfaceless world. Below their inhabited area are \"the Depths\", which grow darker and more hostile as one ventures deeper. When a Slylandro sinks deep enough into the depths, their gas bag is almost ruptured by the pressure, causing scarring to occur which is believed to attract potential mates. Above is \"the Void\", which when ventured into, causes a Slylandro to \"grow giddy and behave inappropriately\". The Slylandro see on a spectrum band where they are opaque to each other and are very shy about humans seeing their \"glowy bits\" (their reproductive organs).\n\nThe Slylandro have no technology and no means of building any. Attempts to construct any but the simplest of tools or devices have resulted in them becoming too heavy and dragging their inventor to the Depths. As a result, the Slylandro play very little part in the greater scheme of things and have been discovered and rediscovered by several subsequent civilizations. Due to Source's low-stimuli environment and the Slylandro's inability to venture off-planet, they have become intensely curious about other worlds and races.\n\nSince the Slylandro have no methods of physically recording history, long chants of past events have to be memorized in order to preserve the past. The standard measurement of time for the Slylandro is the Drahn, which is equal to 4 million rotations of the planet, or about 6460 Earth years. Their long life-spans and equally long memories mean that they are surprisingly knowledgeable about ancient galactic history. They even have records of contact with the Precursors.\n\nShortly before the start of Star Control II the Slylandro trade information about their unique physiology with the Melnorme for an automated self-replicating probe, designed to seek out and contact alien civilisations for them. Unfortunately, due to a programming error by the Slylandro, the probe considers everything, including alien spacecraft, as replication material and begins to attack and devour anything it meets to create copies of itself that go on to do the same. The player in Star Control II, upon explaining this to the Slylandro, is given a self-destruct code for the probes that allows him to greatly reduce the threat.\n\nThe Supox Utricularia are allies of the Utwig. They are a race of kind, sentient plant creatures who evolved from a species of semi-mobile symbionts. In the setting, the evolutionary path of sentient plants is considered an established scientific impossibility, one that Supox science has verified. Many Supox attribute the incongruity of their existence to the favor of \"Higher Powers.\"\n\nThe Supox have always been symbionts. During their long evolutionary path they forged symbiotic relationships with several races of plants and animals on their homeworld, trading \"reproductive assistance\" for nutrients. The Supox look to the Utwig for guidance, and use the Utwig culture as a model for their own. In return, they give the Utwig the emotional support they need.\n\nIn Star Control II the Supox give the Captain the Utwig Ultron, hoping that he can repair it. Beyond that they mainly play a support role to the Utwig. In \"Star Control 3\" they are part of the expedition but their colony ships are destroyed, with the Orz implicated, and hence play no active part in the game.\n\nThe Thraddash are a noisy and extremely aggressive race of rhinoceros-like aliens. They constantly bluster and boast while interacting with the protagonist, providing a thin facade over the actual inadequacy of their military and its primitive technology. This backwardness, the result of their tendency to repeatedly bring themselves to the brink of cultural annihilation by constantly nuking each other, does not deter them from throwing their outdated forces into battle at the slightest provocation.\n\nThe Thraddash have had 18 different planetary cultures. Each time their culture reached a certain point a new ideology for a more perfect culture arrived, and they fought a bitter war and started a new culture from scratch. The earliest Culture mentioned by the Thraddash is Culture Two, which glorified fortitude and stoic resistance to pain. The most important artifact common to all Thraddash cultures is the Aqua Helix. Culture Nine was the only culture to question its significance. Culture Nine considered excessive the amount of blood and passion expended over the artifact. Unfortunately, their complete defeat at the hands of Culture Ten after only two weeks of dominance only reinforced the Thraddash belief in the sanctity of the Aqua Helix.\n\nCulture Fourteen is the second Culture to question traditional Thraddash values. Shortly after achieving dominance, Culture Fourteen claimed that the Thraddash method of cultural evolution was wrong. They claimed that every inter-Culture conflict set the Thraddash back 500 years. As with Culture Nine, Thraddash tradition again proved itself immune to change as Culture Fourteen was destroyed by Culture Fifteen after a reign of only ten years. The violence ensuing from Culture Fourteen's replacement only set the Thraddash back by \"two, three hundred years tops\", hence disproving Culture Fourteen's main tenet.\n\nCulture Eighteen was the dominant Thraddash culture when the Ur-Quan invaded. Their swift defeat by the Ur-Quan put their superiority into question, and an attempt for a resolution was made by the means of a thermonuclear exchange. The Ur-Quan in orbit around the Thraddash homeworld did not allow such intra-species fighting, and intercepted all of the warheads with their fighter vessels. The Ur-Quan's intervention, however, only postponed the inevitable. Shortly after the failed thermonuclear weapon exchange, Culture Eighteen's challengers introduced a super-lethal poison into the air and water, ending the reign of Culture Eighteen.\n\nAfter the poisoning of Culture Eighteen, the Ur-Quan executed all of the emerging Culture's leaders, and arbitrarily assigned leaders. The Ur-Quan explained that any further violations of the Slave Laws would be punished by the eradication of the Thraddash species. Culture Nineteen elected to become Battle Thralls upon being enslaved by the Ur-Quan. As such, they expected to be part of the Ur-Quan's offensive in the quadrant. Their relative military weakness, however, as well as their predisposition to pick fights with other slave races, especially the Umgah and Ilwrath, made the Ur-Quan decide that they would be more of a liability than an asset in the coming battles, and ordered them to \"guard the flank.\" The modern Thraddash have improved their Torch ships with an effective Reeunk Afterburner (named posthumously after its creator, who blew himself up discovering it), and are itching to prove their worth to the Ur-Quan.\n\nThe Kohr-Ah are a subspecies of the Ur-Quan. After freeing themselves from the Dnyarri, the Kohr-Ah decided to adopt the \"Eternal Doctrine,\" which is a plan to protect the Ur-Quan from enslavement ever again by exterminating all non-Ur-Quan sentients in the galaxy. The Kohr-Ah are physically similar to the Kzer-Za except their skin is black and their eyes are a deep red. They are led by a matriarch called the Kohr-Ah Primat.\n\nThe Kohr-Ah were not present in Earth's part of the galaxy during the first Alliance-Hierarchy war in \"Star Control I\". \"Star Control II\" takes place during the Second Doctrinal Conflict between the Kzer-Za and Kohr-Ah Ur-Quan, after which the Kohr-Ah will kill all sentient life if victorious. The Kohr-Ah carry out the words of their doctrine to ensure their freedom and security, and to a lesser degree, they believe they are doing those they cleanse a service: the opportunity to be reincarnated as an Ur-Quan, the superior race. Perhaps as a result of this dispassionate view, neither the Kohr-Ah nor the Kzer-Za will insult or lie to their adversaries.\n\nThe Utwig are a race of fatalist and sophisticated humanoids; they are mentors to the Supox and the keepers of the Ultron device, which they believe provides happiness and enlightenment. Utwig are required to wear masks for as long as they live. They have developed \"Mask-Etiquette\" for the thousands of masks they wear. Each is suitable for different activities, moods, festivals, and ceremonies. This custom was born in their ancient violent past, when they came to the conclusion that the expression of primal emotions upon faces was the source of war and violence. Therefore faces must be hidden in order for a culture to progress peacefully. The accidental destruction of the Ultron sent the entire species into a state of depression and resulted in the destruction of all masks except the Mask of Ultimate Embarrassment and Shame. Its subsequent reconstruction was more than enough to pull the previously unaffiliated Utwig and Supox into the war against the Ur-Quan. The Utwig has been described as \"comic\" by reviewer Francois Laramee.\n\nThe Zoq, Fot, Pik and Zebranky species all evolved on the same planet. The Zoq, Fot and Pik were non-carnivorous, but the Zebranky preyed on them. The Zoq, Fot and Pik races banded together, annihilated the Zebranky, and formed a cooperative union. They integrated so well that they no longer recall which of the races are Zoq, which are Fot, and which are Pik. Afterwards, they faced a dilemma: whether to develop technological and cultural sophistication, or to return to the forests and relax. They chose the latter.\n\nFor another fifty thousand years, the Zoq, the Fot and the Pik relaxed in the forests, until one day one of each race was walking up a steep path looking for something to eat, when a bolt of lightning struck nearby. The bolt of energy carved a wheel-shaped chunk of granite out of a cliff. As the rock began to roll down the hill, some dry grass got caught in its hole, and since the rock was still hot the grass caught on fire. Thus the Zoq, Fot, and Pik simultaneously discovered the wheel, fire, and religion. The wheel and fire were based on the rock, and religion developed when the Zoq was killed by the rolling rock and the remaining two decided that he had simply gone to \"a better place\".\n\nThe three species are said to feed on airborne zooplankton, solar and ambient energies, and rocky fungal clingers. It is never said exactly which species feeds on what, but there are some clues – the one on the right of the communication screenshot is shown blowing air out the three holes on its head, and the one on the left exclaims \"our favorite\" when speaking of rock clingers. Also, the green one on the left seems to be a botanical species, from her appearance, and, at one point, threatens to \"blow a cloud of spores\" in the face of the blue one, so she seems to absorb the sunlight. The function of the arm-like appendages on the leftmost creature are unknown, but possibly includes communication since they move when the creature \"talks\". Very little is known about the one-eyed creature in the center as neither of the other two mentions anything about it except that it never talks.\n\nA satiric take on bad spectator sports, Frungy is a wildly popular sport among the Zoq-Fot-Pik. No details about the rules or concept are disclosed, although the Zoq-Fot-Pik (or at least the one on the right) are \"very\" glad to comment on how great, fun and interesting it is, making numerous references to Frungy throughout the game. Frungy, like most spectator sports, appears to have a governing organization. When beginning a new playthrough of The Ur-Quan Masters, a splash screen noting sponsorship by the Interstellar Frungy League is shown.\n\nThe Zoq-Fot-Pik are one of the first races encountered by the human captain in \"Star Control II\", when the captain meets a scout ship near Rigel that gives him the co-ordinates of their homeworld hidden on the edge of the Ur-Quan conflict zone. The Zoq-Fot-Pik ally with the humans in return for protection from the Ur-Quan should they find them. While their material assistance is not great, their position makes them a valuable source of intelligence on the Ur-Quan and the progress of their war.\n\n\nThe Clairconctlar are noble warriors of ancient heritage. Their origins are shrouded in history, unknown both to the Crux and the League. The craggy, stone-faced warriors are a mystery even to the Precursors, who suspect that they resemble the ancient Taalo race.\n\nThe Clairconctlar move and speak at a stately, nearly glacial pace. They are patient, and extremely slow to anger. When aroused, however, they move with deadly swiftness. They seek just and honourable contact with all other races. They have little patience for brutality and the kinds of atrocities marking much of the galaxy's development.\n\nAll living Clairconctlar were sired by their queen. The queen looks like a majestic blue-grey mountain, larger than many moons. At intermittent cycles, the queen emits a pale blue egg, called a Conc Rock. The Conc Rock is actually a mass of adamantine flakes. In the right circumstances, each flake has the potential to grow into a Clairconctlar. When the queen releases a Conc Rock, the Clairconctlar take it deep into a cave rich with mineral deposits. There, the flakes leach geologic nutrients from the stone walls, and grow into embryonic Clairconctlar.\n\nOver the centuries of gestation, the flakes accrete enough matter to be born as living Clairconctlar. The Conc Rocks are vital to the Clairconctlar because they represent the continuation of the race. Anyone who knowingly destroys one is subject to a vengeance hunt. Clairconctlar forsake all other obligations until they hunt down and exterminate the rock-breaker.\n\nWhen the Crux arrived in the Kessari Quadrant, the Clairconctlar resisted their incursions. The Crux saw no way to win a war against the indomitable stone warriors, and decided to defeat them with subterfuge. They recruited the Clairconctlar after the Daktaklakpak discovered the Clairconctlar's unusual means of reproduction. The Ploxis sent the K'tang to abduct the Clairconctlar queen.\n\nAfter a bloody battle which greatly reduced K'tang forces, they subdued the queen. They took her to another planet and used Precursor technology to affix her to bedrock, and to record a phony message. The message tells the Clairconctlar that a debt of honour binds them to the Ploxis. The message does not divulge the origin of this debt, but the Crux created a convenient fiction in case the Clairconctlar get curious: The Clairconctlar, they claim, destroyed most of the Ploxis race. In truth, the Ploxis destroyed most of their own.\n\nThe queen calls out to her people for salvation, but the Crux has forbidden them to visit the planet where they hold her, without saying why. The Clairconctlar know the Crux is an empire without honour, but are duty-bound to serve until the queen tells them they're free of the debt. They're stuck - unless the League can find a way to liberate them.\n\nThe Clairconctlar are known for their valour in battle. The ship is built to launch deadly broadside attacks, then transport away with its warp beacon in order to recharge its energy reserves for another attack.\n\nA semi-sentient machine, Daktaklakpak form the technological wing of the Hegemonic Crux. They are arrogant because the Precursors made them; however, they do not realise they were created as maintenance drones. The Precursors prevented the Daktaklakpak from developing full sentience which, combined with their amateurish self-modification, resulted in an initially indecipherable language (\"Daktaklakpak! 5576 squared! 888, warning!\", etc.). \"Daktaklakpak\" is the beginning of an alphanumeric string that encodes their creation by the Precursor factories, and contains all information about them. They believe the same applies to the Eternal Ones.\n\nThey adore the Precursors and seek their artifacts. Though allied with the Crux, they would eagerly defect for the pursuit of greater knowledge. In particular, they quest to find the full name of Eternal Ones, which they believe will reveal the exact nature of the species. They will trade virtually anything for this information, including information on their allies, advanced weaponry, or services in battle. When the Daktaklakpak met the Ploxis (who were engaged in a civil war), they traded a Precursor vessel for several valuable artifacts. With this vessel the Ploxis Plutocrats and their K'tang allies won the war. In the Crux, the Daktaklakpak dissect new races and technologies provided by their allies, the Ploxis. This was the origin of the name of their ship: The Daktaklakpak Vivisector. They have several such craft stationed at every artifact site in the quadrant, presumably guarding them till excavation crew arrive.\n\nThe Doog are a species of extremely loyal and naive dog-lizards. Dull-witted, they lack the intelligence to understand that no matter how hard they worked, they could never make enough money to buy themselves out of their K'Tang-Ploxis owned financial slavery.\n\nThe Exquivans are a race of \"monks\" who try to reduce their own level of sentience in order to avoid being devoured by the Eternal Ones.\n\nThe Eternal Ones are a race of god-like, extra-dimensional beings who consume all sentient life in the Universe from time to time. According to the Daktaklakpak, the Eternal Ones' name comes from their DNA formulae that start as 'Eternal1'. Their complete name is their complete DNA formulae, something so complex that any sentience that tries to learn it all, organic or machine, becomes insane.\n\nThe Eternal Ones evolved from sentient organic beings until they lost their material bodies and became pure energy, reaching the verge of transforming into \"something else\". The Eternal Ones were afraid to evolve and lose their last physical vestige, and made a plan to stop their evolution that required consuming incredible quantities of sentient energy. To harvest sentience in great quantity, the Eternal Ones planted \"seeds\" throughout the universe that created all the other races in the Star Control universe. The Precursors became aware of this and devolved themselves to non-sentient animals and created semi-sentient machines called Daktaklakpak to re-evolve themselves when the harvest was over. Unfortunately the Daktaklakpak forgot their main objective and started to wander the galaxy collecting and protecting all Precursor technologies. The long-term purpose for the Precursors was to develop an artifact to optimize the harvest for the Eternal Ones. The Precursors had noticed that sentient harvest was incredibly inefficient, and theorized that by optimizing the harvest, there would not be a need for such genocide.\n\nIn \"Star Control 3\", the player, as the human leader of the sentient races, foresees the harvest, and unites most races to find a solution. He finds the unfinished artifact and re-evolves a Precursor who helps the player finish it in time for the next harvest. The much greater efficiency of energy absorption allowed by the artifact allows the Eternal Ones to feed without requiring the death of all sentient creatures.\n\nThe Harika & Yorn evolved as a symbiotic relationship with the warlike reptilian Harika eating the Yorn which serves to control the Yorn's population numbers. They also gain the advice of their somewhat more diplomatically minded food. The Yorn resemble \"Star Trek\" tribbles and as such would not be capable of a technological society on their own; the Harika grant them this chance. At the start of the game they are members of the Hegemonic Crux and suffer from the Xchagger virus.\n\nThe current Heralds are an unnamed species which were defeated by the previous Heralds. The Eternal Ones, while destroying all other sentient life, gave the Heralds the choice of oblivion, or becoming their messengers. The Heralds chose the latter fate.\n\nThe K'tang are small, weak, cowardly worms of low intelligence and cunning. They evolved aware of their own inferiority, among bigger and smarter species. In an unusual display of cunning, the K'tang managed to scavenge or hijack enough sophisticated technology to cobble together Mecha. They killed all competing races, a significant portion of their own species and enslaved those that remained. Despite their powerful weaponry, not a single worm had strategic thought, no warrior lowered himself to running the supply lanes, and no slave was good enough to do it. Each K'tang scrounged whatever weapons he could, then went into battle hiding behind his allies. They encountered the Ploxis Plutocrats, who were looking for some easily controllable muscle to serve them. The K'tang quickly allowed their \"allies\" to run their logistics and strategy, turning the tide of the war in their favour and forming the Hegemonic Crux. The K'Tang fervently believe that they are the leaders of the Crux, despite admitting that the Ploxis \"administrators\" tell the K'Tang where to go and who to fight. Their downfall came when the Captain procured the Overlord-Seeking Larvacide missile from the Daktaklakpak and atomized the armoured shell that housed the K'tang King. The naked worm quickly surrendered to the League, and he and his race served as sullen allies for the remainder of the war, lest the League use their weapon and return them to the dirt.\n\nThe Lk are a species of fungus which used to feed on Precursor artifacts. They have a callous view of life, expecting other species to behave the same way.\n\nAn underwater species. Their planet's sun went nova long before the development of its life. All life on their home planet developed from underwater chemical reactions, therefore they have no light sensing abilities.\n\nNot much is known about the Ploxis race, beyond the short history described by a rebel captain of that race, who had spent quite some time in suspended animation. The Ploxis were at once a race that celebrated diversity, and believed deeply in the idea of fairness and of the correlation between success and worthiness as a sentient. This liberal attitude caused them to respect even those who decided that the acquisition of wealth and power should be their primary motivation. By the time the peace-loving Ploxis decided to take a stand against these new thinkers, the Plutocrats, it was too late. The Plutocrats had already made contact with the K'tang, and had swapped technology for servitude. With the K'tang and various Precursor artifacts, the Plutocrats made short work of those Ploxis who wished to cling to the old ways. All that remains of the defeated forces are a few scattered individuals in suspended animation.\n\nCrustaceans with a full exoskeleton resembling lobsters.\n\nThey were non-sentient before being genetically uplifted by the Precursors. They \"lost\" DNA during this process, and this lost DNA became the VUX. The Vyro-Ingo were left with a sense of genetic inferiority, so they frequently insult others. During the storyline, they can reunite with the VUX.\n\nThe Xchagger are a microscopic race of sentient parasites who typically live on Ortogs. While individual Xchaggers are not intelligent, when part of a larger group they form a collective mind. At one time there were many Xchagger colonies, until all but one was exterminated by the Hegemonic Crux. Following this attack, the Daktaklakpak kidnapped many Xchagger (these abductees were known to the last colony as the \"Lost Dynasties\") and used them as a biological weapon against the Harika & Yorn. Ultimately the Dynasties were extracted from the Harika by advanced technology, and returned to the Xchagger colony.\n\nStar Control: Origins introduced several new species.\n\nA species of organic/mechanoid beings that were bred by the Scryve to follow orders and no more. They use cloning pods to overwhelm their enemies with numbers because they have little else. They serve as the Scryve's frontline soldiers.\n\nSapient \"space fish\" that live on and tend to the \"Ancient One\" which is a moon-sized being. Because they are difficult to communicate with, most species consider them non-sapient until informed otherwise.\n\nSapient sea plants that were altered by the Scryve to serve as biological computers and bureaucrats. They are record keepers for the Scryve Empire.\n\nA long-necked, four-eyed species that has a penchant for mischief and are highly opportunistic. They stole an egg from the Ancient One and, as a consequence of that, are on the run because the Ancient One keeps sucking away their home world's atmosphere. They would rather keep moving than return the egg, unless there's profit in it for them.\n\nA dog-like species that breeds fast and in great numbers. They evolve through trial and error. Mostly error. When humanity finds them, they are worshiping an ancient machine called Jeff. Jeff no longer wants to be their god. While technically a ward of the Scryve Empire, the Scryve has done little with them because of Jeff.\n\nThe Mukay are a species of aquatic aliens with a preoccupation with fish. They are responsible for biological research as a ward of the Scryve Empire.\n\nProunced \"famished,\" they're highly intelligent snake-like cannibals. They were a ward species until the Scryve discovered they returned to their cannibalistic ways and have been at war since.\n\nA sentient bioweapon/super virus developed by the Scryve but now independent. It is trying to atone for it was it forced to do under Scryve control.\n\nThe Scryve are the supreme power and primary antagonist in the Mid Spur making other species either their wards or dead. Humanity is targeted for destruction by the Scryve because of their inclination towards freedom.\n\nA species that has been taken over by an AI called the Overmind. \"Free Trandals\" have escaped the influence of the Overmind.\n\nThe Tywom are an extremely friendly, slug-like species that is the first aliens that humans encounter in the Origins universe. They are a ward of the Scryve Empire responsible for all things slimy but, due to interfering with humanity, are targeted for destruction.\n\nFour-armed, four-eyed former ward species of the Scryve Empire, they almost destroyed the Empire but were driven back. They were breed by the Scryve to act as space marines.\n"}
{"id": "144112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144112", "title": "List of gardens in England", "text": "List of gardens in England\n\nGardens in England is a link page for any garden, botanical garden, arboretum or pinetum open to the public in England.\n\nThe National Gardens Scheme also opens many small, interesting, private gardens to the public on 1 or 2 days a year for charity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGardens in Cornwall:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6041470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6041470", "title": "List of national parks of Vietnam", "text": "List of national parks of Vietnam\n\nThis is a list of national parks in Vietnam:\n"}
{"id": "19111630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19111630", "title": "List of nuclear whistleblowers", "text": "List of nuclear whistleblowers\n\nThere have been a number of nuclear whistleblowers, often nuclear engineers, who have identified safety concerns about nuclear power and nuclear weapons production. In 1976 Gregory Minor, Richard Hubbard and Dale Bridenbaugh \"blew the whistle\" on safety problems at nuclear power plants in the United States, and Fukushima in Japan. George Galatis was a senior nuclear engineer who reported safety problems at the Millstone 1 Nuclear Power Plant, relating to reactor refueling procedures, in 1996. Other nuclear power whistleblowers include Arnold Gundersen and David Lochbaum.\n\nThe first prominent nuclear whistleblower was Karen Silkwood, who worked as a chemical technician at a Kerr-McGee nuclear fuel plant. Silkwood became an activist in the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers International Union in order to protest health and safety issues. In 1974, she testified to the United States Atomic Energy Commission about her concerns. A few months later she died in a car crash under mysterious conditions on the way to a meeting with a \"New York Times\" reporter and a national union leader. The 1983 film \"Silkwood\" is an account of this story.\n\nOn February 2, 1976, Gregory C. Minor, Richard B. Hubbard, and Dale G. Bridenbaugh (known as the GE Three) \"blew the whistle\" on safety problems at nuclear power plants, and their action has been called \"an exemplary instance of whistleblowing\".\n\nThe three engineers gained the attention of journalists and their disclosures about the threats of nuclear power had a significant impact. They timed their statements to coincide with their resignations from responsible positions in General Electric's nuclear energy division, and later established themselves as consultants on the nuclear power industry for state governments, federal agencies, and overseas governments. The consulting firm they formed, MHB Technical Associates, was technical advisor for the movie, \"The China Syndrome.\" The three engineers participated in Congressional hearings which their disclosures precipitated.\n\nBrowns Ferry nuclear power plant construction went underway in 1966. It was located in Alabama and in 1967 it earned a Federal construction permit. The plant received new design standards which call for \"physical separation of electrical cables.\" There was an issue with the instructions on how to accomplish this so the AEC inspector F.U. Bower requested that the AEC elaborate; however, there was no response from the organization and installation went on. Still, no instructions were issued after five failed inspections in 1970. The lack of cable separation instructions led to the sacrifice of safety coolant systems in two of the units in order to improve one with severe safety violation. The ignorance of the AEC led to the fire that occurred on March 22, 1975, that almost led to a radiation leak. The substance separating the wires caught fire when tests to find air leaks with a candle ignited it thus resulting in damage to the control systems. With damage to the control systems, the cooling system that keeps the units from leaking radiation did not work properly. Somehow the situation was avoided and the units were put out of service. Throughout the occurrence of these events Bridenbaugh had been discussing his reservations on the safety at the plant in vain and in 1976 a year later Bridenbaugh, Hubbard and Minor resigned.\n\nLou Putney came on the scene of the Crystal River 3 plant after receiving a call from a plant engineer. The engineer claimed that the managers hired engineers based on \"good ol' boy mentality.\" The plant had experience numerous shut downs since 1978. Along with this concern, the engineer was not confident that the manager possessed the qualifications to be a manager. Although the engineer pursued nothing further with his complaint, it prompted Putney to purchase shares of stock in the company that would allow him to file \"shareholder resolutions.\" Putney had looked into the nuclear reactors that were built of an unsafe material for emergency cooling procedures. The NRC had placed Crystal River on the top 14 worst reactors list because of this. So, the shares were purchased in 1981, which is when Putney filed his first shareholder resolution requesting the plant be shut down. This tradition was upheld by Putney for seven years until he was required to purchase more stock in order to continue filing resolutions. Over the course of sixteen years, Putney filed a total of fourteen shareholder resolutions. All of these resolutions were ignored and were met with offers to buy out his shares so he could no longer file the resolutions. The plant was officially decommissioned in September 2009.\n\nRonald J. Goldstein was a supervisor employed by EBASCO, which was a major contractor for the construction of the South Texas plants. In the summer of 1985, Goldstein identified safety problems to SAFETEAM, an internal compliance program established by EBASCO and Houston Lighting, including noncompliance with safety procedures, the failure to issue safety compliance reports, and quality control violations affecting the safety of the plant.\n\nSAFETEAM was promoted as an independent safe haven for employees to voice their safety concerns. The two companies did not inform their employees that they did not believe complaints reported to SAFETEAM had any legal protection. After he filed his report to SAFETEAM, Goldstein was fired. Subsequently, Golstein filed suit under federal nuclear whistleblower statutes.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Labor ruled that his submissions to SAFETEAM were protected and his dismissal was invalid, a finding upheld by Labor Secretary Lynn Martin. The ruling was appealed and overturned by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, which ruled that private programs offered no protection to whistleblowers. After Goldstein lost his case, Congress amended the federal nuclear whistleblower law to provide protection reports made to internal systems and prevent retaliation against whistleblowers.\n\nThe Fernald Feed Materials Production Center was built in Crosby Township, Ohio in 1951, and decommissioned in 1989. Fernald processed uranium trioxide and uranium tetrafluoride, among other radioactive materials, to produce the uranium fuel cores for nuclear weapons. It was shrouded in suspicion with many manager changes and the people of the town ill-informed of the purpose of the plant. The Fernald Feed Materials Production Center also conducted an evaluation of how much material was contaminated by Radium. Using 138 pieces of the CR-39 film assays, they were able to determine that people working in the area where K-65 silos ( Underground chamber used to store missiles) had lower levels of exposure of materials contaminated by Radon than the Q-11 silos between the period of 1952-1988 Journal of Exposure Science and Environmental Epidemiology.Throughout 1951-1995 the plant had numerous scandals including faking numbers for contamination and disregarding evidence of ground water pollution. Among the citizens affected by the pollution was Mrs. Lisa Crawford who took action. Crawford and other residents filed a lawsuit in 1985 and became president of the organization FRESH (Fernald Residents for Environmental Safety and Health). A lawsuit was then filed once again against Fernald by former employees several years later in 1990. After several years of being heavily advised not to blow the whistle, the workers earned themselves a $15 million settlement and lifelong medical monitoring. In 1992, FERMCO was hired to construct a cleanup plan for the plant and in 1996, around accusations of wasteful spending, the cleanup of ground water and soil was completed.\n\nMordechai Vanunu blew the whistle on the nuclear plant in Dimona, Israel in an interview with The Sunday Times that was published on 5 October 1986. According to Vanunu, this plant had been producing nuclear weapons for 10 to 20 years. It is estimated that there may be around 200 nuclear weapons in possession of Israel's nuclear weapons program. Vanunu demonstrated his knowledge to Frank Barnaby and John Steinbach and they confirmed the credibility of his story. Frank Barnaby wrote in his \"Declaration of Frank Barnaby in the Matter of Mordechai Vanunu\" that Vanunu had the bare minimum knowledge of nuclear physics that a technician should have and accurately described the makeup of the nuclear plant in Dimona. Having served in full his 18 years prison term, ruled in closed door trial, including 11 years in solitary Vanunu has been further in and out of jail after. In 2007, sentenced to six months for violating terms of his parole, and in May 2010, again to three months for having met foreigners in violation of his release terms from jail.\n\nVanunu is of the ethnic Mizrahi Jewry, having emigrated out of Arabic-speaking North-Africa, many of whom claim discriminatory practices effect them in the Ashkenaz dominated intelligensia and judiciary.\n\nAmnesty International issued a press release on 2 July 2007, stating that \"The organisation considers Mordechai Vanunu to be a prisoner of conscience and calls for his immediate and unconditional release.\"[6] Vanunu has been characterized internationally as a whistleblower[7][8] and by Israel as a traitor. Despite the whistle blown towards the operation of the nuclear weapons program in Israel, the Israeli government denied the existence of all allegations.\nMordechai Vanunu is known as Israel`s Nuclear Whistleblower.\n\nIn 1990 Arnold Gundersen discovered radioactive material in an accounting safe at Nuclear Energy Services in Danbury, Connecticut, the consulting firm where he held a $120,000-a-year job as senior vice-president. Three weeks after he notified the company president of what he believed to be radiation safety violations, Gundersen was fired. According to \"The New York Times\", for three years, Gundersen \"was awakened by harassing phone calls in the middle of the night\" and he \"became concerned about his family's safety\". Gundersen believes he was blacklisted, harassed and fired for doing what he thought was right.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reports that Gundersen's case is not uncommon, especially in the nuclear industry. Even though nuclear workers are encouraged to report potential safety hazards, those who do risk demotion and dismissal. Instead of correcting the problems, whistleblowers say, industry management and government agencies attack them as the cause of the problem. Driven out of their jobs and shunned by neighbors and co-workers, whistleblowers often turn to each other for support.\n\nThe Whistleblower Support Fund is an organization that has compiled resources for whistleblowers to access if they are considering whistleblowing. It was founded by Donald Ray Soeken, who has counseled whistleblowers for 35 years. In addition, a social network to connect whistleblowers to other whistleblowers will be implemented. It will be a private discussion where whistleblowers can safely seek support.\n\nIn the early 1990s, nuclear engineer David Lochbaum and a colleague, Don Prevatte, identified a safety problem in a plant where they were working, but were ignored when they raised the issue with the plant manager, the utility and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). After bringing their concerns to Congress, the problem was corrected not just at the original nuclear plant but at plants across the country.\n\nGerald W. Brown was the whistleblower on the Thermo-Lag scandal, as well as on silicone foam firestop issues in the US and Canada, exposing the fact that fireproofing of wiring between control rooms and reactors did not function as intended and exposing bounding and combustibility issues with organic firestops.\n\nGeorge Galatis was a senior nuclear engineer and whistleblower who reported safety problems at the Millstone 1 Nuclear Power Plant, relating to reactor refueling procedures, in 1996. The unsafe procedures meant that spent fuel rod pools at Unit 1 had the potential to boil, possibly releasing radioactive steam throughout the plant. Galatis eventually took his concerns to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, to find that they had \"known about the unsafe procedures for years\". As a result of going to the NRC, Galatis experienced \"subtle forms of harassment, retaliation, and intimidation\".\n\nRainer Moormann is a German chemist and nuclear power whistleblower. Since 1976 he has been working at the Forschungszentrum Jülich, doing research on safety problems with pebble bed reactors, fusion power and spallation neutron sources. In 2008 Moormann published a critical paper on the safety of pebble bed reactors, which raised attention among specialists in the field, and managed to distribute it via the media, facing considerable opposition. For doing this despite the occupational disadvantages he had to accept as a consequence, Moormann was awarded the whistleblower award of the Federation of German Scientists (VDW) and of the German section of the International Association of Lawyers Against Nuclear Arms (IALANA).\n\nSetsuo Fujiwara, who used to design reactors, said he clashed with supervisors over an inspection audit he conducted in March 2009 at the Tomari nuclear plant in Japan. Fujiwara refused to approve a routine test by the plant's operator, Hokkaido Electric Power, saying the test was flawed. A week later, he was summoned by his supervisor, who ordered him to \"correct\" his written report to indicate that the test had been done properly. After Fujiwara refused, his employment contract was not renewed. \"They told me my job was just to approve reactors, not to raise doubts about them\", said Fujiwara, 62, who is now suing the nuclear safety organization to get rehired. In a written response to questions from \"The New York Times\", the agency said it could not comment while the court case was under way. Along with the lawsuit Mr. Fujiwara filed against the agency he used to work for, he had gone to the Tokyo District Court to further write several complaints about how the JNES ( Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization) failed to follow the UN laws concerning how to properly inspect nuclear energy reactors. Mr. Fujiwara also submitted several documents and emails that dealt with how the reactor inspections were improperly handled by JNES even though JNES denies all allegations. [42]\n\nThe Hanford site resulted in a number of whistleblowers during the efforts to clean the site up. Walter Tamosaitis blew the whistle on the Energy Department's plan for waste treatment at the Hanford site in 2011. Tamosaitis's concern was the possibility of explosive hydrogen gas being built up inside tanks that the company was to store the harmful chemical sludge they were trying to put into hibernation for its chemical life. Shortly after this Tamosaitis was demoted and two years later, fired which triggered his lawsuit for wrongful termination. A $4.1 million settlement was offered to Tamosaitis from AECOM on 12 August 2015. Tamosaitis has since been reinstated.\n\nDonna Busche blew the whistle resulting in her 2013 lawsuit with claims that the URS \"retaliated against her. She was head of nuclear safety and a URS employee around the time when she expressed her concerns.\n\nGary Brunson reported 34 safety and engineering violations after quitting in 2012. Brunson was federal engineering chief before he quit.\n\nShelly Doss earned \"$20,000 in emotional distress and $10,000 in callous disregard of her rights\" as well as reinstatement in 2014. Doss was an environmental specialist at the time of her firing in 2011 working for Washington River Protection Solutions.\n\nIn 2012, Larry Criscione and Richard H. Perkins publicly accused the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission of downplaying flood risks for nuclear plants which are sited on waterways downstream from large reservoirs and dams. They are engineers with over 20 years of combined government and military service who work for the NRC. Other nuclear safety advocates have supported their complaints.\n\nIn 1959, John Pace was employed at the Santa Susana Field Lab, 36 miles from Los Angeles, at the time of the partial meltdown during the Sodium Reactor Experiment. According to Pace, the reactor building doors and reactor exhaust stack were opened, releasing radiation into the atmosphere. Dan Parks also worked at the Santa Susana Field Lab, as a health physicist in the 1960s, where he witnessed the burning of radioactive waste in burn pits, and frequently saw workers illegally vent radiation into the atmosphere. In 2015 they spoke out about the incident in an investigative report by NBC News.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "954481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954481", "title": "Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment", "text": "Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment\n\nThe Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment () is the senior minister at the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment in the Government of Ireland.\n\nThe current Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment is Richard Bruton, TD. He is assisted by:\n\nThe Department has responsibilities in the areas of:\n\n\n\n\nThe Broadcasting Division aims to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40896902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40896902", "title": "Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (Turkmenistan)", "text": "Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources (Turkmenistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources of Turkmenistan ()is a governmental agency of Turkmenistan in charge of regulating the activities in the industry the areas of oil and gas, petrochemical, transportation of hydrocarbons. The structure of this ministry is the State Agency for Management and Use of Hydrocarbon Resources under the President of Turkmenistan. To date, the Minister of Oil and Mineral Resources of Turkmenistan is Muhammetnur Halylov.\n\n"}
{"id": "288145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288145", "title": "Mount Nemrut", "text": "Mount Nemrut\n\nNemrut or Nemrud (; ; ) is a mountain in southeastern Turkey, notable for the summit where a number of large statues are erected around what is assumed to be a royal tomb from the 1st century BC.\n\nThe mountain lies north of Kahta, near Adıyaman. In 62 BC, King Antiochus I Theos of Commagene built on the mountain top a tomb-sanctuary flanked by huge statues of himself, two lions, two eagles and various Greek, Armenian, and Medes gods, such as Zeus-Aramazd or Oromasdes (associated with Zoroastrian god Ahura Mazda), Hercules-Vahagn, Tyche-Bakht, and Apollo-Mihr-Mithras. These statues were once seated, with names of each god inscribed on them. The heads of the statues have at some stage been removed from their bodies, and they are now scattered throughout the site.\n\nThe pattern of damage to the heads (notably to noses) suggests that they were deliberately damaged as a result of iconoclasm. The statues have not been restored to their original positions. The site also preserves stone slabs with bas-relief figures that are thought to have formed a large frieze. These slabs display the ancestors of Antiochus, who included Armenians, Greeks and Persians.\n\nThe same statues and ancestors found throughout the site can also be found on the tumulus at the site, which is and in diameter. It is possible that the tumulus was built to protect a tomb from tomb-robbers since any excavation would quickly fill with loose rock. The statues appear to have Greek-style facial features, but Armenian clothing and hair-styling.\nThe western terrace contains a large slab with a lion, showing an arrangement of stars and the planets Jupiter, Mercury and Mars. The composition was taken to be a chart of the sky on 7 July 62 BC. This may be an indication of when construction began on this monument. The eastern portion is well preserved, being composed of several layers of rock, and a path following the base of the mountain is evidence of a walled passageway linking the eastern and western terraces. Possible uses for this site are thought to have included religious ceremonies, owing to the astronomical and religious nature of the monument.\n\nThe arrangement of such statues is known by the term hierothesion. Similar arrangements have been found at Arsameia on Nymphaios at the hierothesion of the father of Antiochus, Mithridates I Callinicus.\n\nWhen the Seleucid Empire was defeated by the Romans in 190 BC at the Battle of Magnesia it began to fall apart and new kingdoms were established on its territory by local authorities. Commagene, one of the Seleucid successor states, occupied a land between the Taurus mountains and the Euphrates. The state of Commagene had a wide range of cultures which left its leader from 62 BC – 38 BC Antiochus I Theos to carry on a peculiar dynastic religious program, which included not only Armenian, Greek and Persian deities but Antiochus and his family as well. This religious program was very possibly an attempt by Antiochus to unify his multiethnic kingdom and secure his dynasty's authority.\n\nAntiochus supported the cult as a propagator of happiness and salvation. Many of the ruins on Mount Nemrud are monuments of the imperial cult of Commagene. The most important area to the cult was the tomb of Antiochus I, which was decorated with colossal statues made of limestone. Although the imperial cult did not last long after Antiochus, several of his successors had their own tombs built on Mount Nemrud. For around half of the year, Mount Nemrud is covered in snow, the effect of which increases weathering, which has in part caused the statues to fall in ruin.\n\nThe site was excavated in 1881 by , a German engineer assessing transport routes for the Ottomans. After her first visit in 1947, Theresa Goell dedicated her life to the site, starting campaigns in 1954. Subsequent excavations have failed to reveal the tomb of Antiochus. This is nevertheless still believed to be the site of his burial. The statues, all of them \"beheaded\", have not been restored to their original condition.\n\nIn 1987, Mount Nemrut was made a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Tourists typically visit Nemrut during April through October. The nearby town of Adıyaman is a popular place for car and bus trips to the site, and one can also travel from there by helicopter. There are also overnight tours running out of Malatya or Kahta.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35263252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35263252", "title": "NOBM", "text": "NOBM\n\nNASA Ocean Biogeochemical Model (NOBM) is a three-dimensional representation of coupled circulation/biogeochemical/radiative processes in the global oceans. It was built at the Global Modeling and Assimilation Office and is in the process of being coupled to the Goddard Earth Observing System Model, Version 5 (GEOS-5) climate systems.\n\nIt spans the domain from -84° to 72° latitude in increments of 1.25° longitude by 2/3° latitude, including only open ocean areas, where bottom depth are greater than 200 m. The biogeochemical model contains 4 phytoplankton groups, four nutrient groups, a single herbivore group, and three detrital pools.\n"}
{"id": "2614212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2614212", "title": "National Wetlands Coalition", "text": "National Wetlands Coalition\n\nThe National Wetlands Coalition, founded in 1989, has opposed U.S. wetlands policy, saying \"the federal government, while seeking to protect wetlands, casts a wide net and imposes burdensome and ineffective regulations on private property that does not function as or provide the ecosystem benefits of high-value wetlands\". \"Time Magazine\" called it \"a big-biz coalition against wetlands\".\n\nIn 1995, the organization consisted of about 60 municipal associations, utilities and major industrial companies, such as Exxon, Texaco and Kerr-McGee.\n\nThe National Wetlands Coalition has been characterized as the quintessential astroturf organization, which is an organization that presents itself as a grassroots organization, but was actually founded by (and is largely funded by) a separate commercial or political organization in order to promote its own agenda, while keeping its relationship to the new organization hidden. A study by the University of Oklahoma used the National Wetlands Coalition as a specific example to examine the influence of corporate front-group stealth campaigns, in which corporations form associations that, in turn, adopt names that are designed to misrepresent their true intentions. The results of the study indicated that front-group stealth campaigns were effective in enhancing public perceptions of the front group itself. The National Wetlands Coalition campaigns successfully undermined perceptions of the targeted attitude object, eroding support for any federal efforts to restrict wetlands’ development or regulate developers.\n\nThe organization has been relatively inactive since around the late 1990s. . The website was being \"reworked\" from February 2001 through November 2005 ; it went offline in December 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1131727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1131727", "title": "North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests", "text": "North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests\n\nThe North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests is a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of southwestern India. \n\nThe North Western Ghats moist deciduous forests lies in the northern portion of the Western Ghats (Sahyadri) range. It extends from southeastern Gujarat through Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Maharashtra, Goa, and Karnataka. It covers the eastern and western slopes of the range between 250 and 1000 meters elevation, and surrounds the North Western Ghats montane rain forests ecoregion, which lies above 1000 meters elevation. The ecoregion has an area of . It is bounded on the west by the Malabar Coast moist forests ecoregion, which lies between the 250 meter elevation and the Arabian Sea. At its northern end, the ecoregion extends to the Narmada River, and borders the Kathiarbar-Gir dry deciduous forests to the northwest and the Narmada Valley dry deciduous forests to the northeast. The Wayanad forests at the southern end of the ecoregion mark the transition to the South Western Ghats moist deciduous forests to the south. To the east, in the dry rain shadow of the Ghats, are the South Deccan Plateau dry deciduous forests ecoregion, whose tropical dry forests cover the Ghats' eastern foothills. \n\nIn 1997, the World Wildlife Fund identified thirteen protected areas in the ecoregion, with a combined area of approximately 2,200 km², that encompassed 5% of the ecoregion's area. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "54544965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54544965", "title": "Olympus National Park Information Center", "text": "Olympus National Park Information Center\n\nThe Olympus National Park Information Center (Greek Κέντρο Πληροφόρησης Εθνικού Δρυμού Ολύμπου, Kendro Pliroforisis Ethnikou Drymou Olymbou) informs their visitors about geology, archaeological sites, mythology, monasteries, plants, animals and other subjects relating to Mount Olympus.\nThe centre is located about one kilometer above Litochoro, directly at the road leading to the summits, lies the Olympus National Park Information Center. It is located opposite the extensive sports complex and is signposted.\n\nIn 1938, Mount Olympus was established as the first national park in Greece, and declared a Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO in 1981. \n\nThe building houses the offices of the National Park Administration, the exhibition, a library, various meeting rooms and a spacious atrium for events or exhibitions. There are also rooms for a café and a souvenir shop. The exhibition is the link between the National Park Administration and the public. The visitor is given an overall picture of the mountains. Hiking, nature, archeology, history, fauna, flora, monasteries and, of course, Greek mythology are treated.\n\nThe design of the exhibition was designed by the Goulandris Museum of Natural History. The exhibition is divided into seven areas, in which the peculiarities of the seven different zones of the mountain are presented, one will find large-sized boards that provide information about relevant topics in Greek and English. With every rise in the exhibition, the next higher altitude of the mountains is shown and the plant and animal world prevailing there is explained. Places of interest beyond nature are treated on separate boards, information about archaeological sites such as Dion or Leivithra is provided. The hiker is pointed out to interesting places near the hiking trails, such as the monastery of Agios Dionysius or the cave of the painter Ithakisios. \n\nMultilingual guides are available to assist visitors. A certified Ecoguide is responsible for guided tours in the mountains. The works in the library mainly deal with the themes of Olympus, animals and plants. Most are written in Greek, but books in English, German and French language are also on the shelves. The amphitheater, a room with 142 seats, can be used for congresses, lectures, meetings, etc. A seminar room can also be provided upon request. Registration is required.\n\nThe Olympus National Park Information Center is one of the venues of the Olympus Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "2692540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2692540", "title": "Omega Tauri", "text": "Omega Tauri\n\nThe Bayer designation Omega Tauri (ω Tau, ω Tauri) is shared by two star systems, ω Tauri and ω Tauri, in the constellation Taurus. They are separated by 2.13° on the sky.\n\n"}
{"id": "29839126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29839126", "title": "Pallas gas field", "text": "Pallas gas field\n\nThe Pallas gas field is an offshore natural gas field located on the continental shelf of Ukraine in the north-eastern part of the Black Sea. It covers area of . The estimated 157 billion cubic meters of natural gas in place. Recoverable reserves are estimated 75 billion cubic meters of natural gas and 490 million metric tons of oil.\n\nOriginally, the license to explore the Pallas deposit was owned by the Ukrainian company Chornomornaftogaz. In March 2007, Chornomornaftogaz, Naftogaz Ukrainy, and Russian gas company Gazprom signed a trilateral protocol on intentions of joint development of the field. In January 2010 the license to develop the gas field was issued by the Ukrainian government to Naftogaz Ukrainy. On 1 December 2010, Gazprom announced it was agreed to establish a joint venture of Naftogas and Gazprom to develop the Pallas field. This was not confirmed by the Ukrainian Fuel and Energy Ministry.\n"}
{"id": "35887658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35887658", "title": "Phi Pavonis", "text": "Phi Pavonis\n\nThe Bayer designation Phi Pavonis (φ Pav / φ Pavonis) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Pavo:\n"}
{"id": "46654921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46654921", "title": "Poem Strip", "text": "Poem Strip\n\nPoem Strip () is a 1969 comic book by the Italian writer and illustrator Dino Buzzati. It retells the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice, set in Milan in the 1960s. The aesthetics are influenced by 1960s pop culture. An English translation by Marina Harss was published in 2009.\n\nRichard Rayner of \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote in 2009: \"The images are surreal, sexy and frightening, and the text (translated here for the first time into English by Marina Harss, with lettering by Rich Tommaso) is both compelling and poetic. There are shades of Fellini, shades of Dickens, shades of the great Italian horror director Mario Bava. A beautiful book.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" wrote: \"The text might have lost some of its lyricism in the translation from the Italian, as it occasionally seems stiff. The artwork retains its bold, sensual power, however.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5207395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5207395", "title": "Sacred garden", "text": "Sacred garden\n\nA sacred garden is a religiously-influenced garden, often found on temple grounds.\n\nReligion has been an important influence on garden design. Temple gardens were made in Mesopotamia and ancient Egypt. Sacred groves were made in ancient India, Greece, Rome, China and Japan. Sacred trees were important in Celtic and Germanic Europe and still are important in India. \n\nMany groves or forests were sacred in ancient India and continue to be so in modern Hindu worship. Buddhism had a significant influence on garden design, with the Zen gardens of China and Japan as famous examples. In Christianity, particularly Catholicism and Anglicanism, Mary gardens are common among churches and institutions.\n\nThe practise of creating sacred gardens is re-invigorated and adapted for modern times in the \"Ringing Cedars\" series of books by Russian author Vladimir Megre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1732930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732930", "title": "Serac", "text": "Serac\n\nA serac (originally from Swiss French \"sérac\") is a block or column of glacial ice, often formed by intersecting crevasses on a glacier. Commonly house-sized or larger, they are dangerous to mountaineers, since they may topple with little warning. Even when stabilized by persistent cold weather, they can be an impediment to glacier travel.\n\nSeracs are found within an icefall, often in large numbers, or on ice faces on the lower edge of a hanging glacier. Notable examples of the overhanging glacier edge type are well-known obstacles on some of the world's highest mountains, including K2 at \"The Bottleneck\" and Kanchenjunga on the border of India and Nepal. Significant seracs in the Alps are found on the northeast face of Piz Roseg, the north face of the Dent d'Hérens, and the north face of Lyskamm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17834948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17834948", "title": "Sermilik Station", "text": "Sermilik Station\n\nThe station was built in 1970 to provide the logistical base for the research. In 1972, the main building was destroyed by an avalanche. It was rebuilt later closer to the shore, which is its current location.\n\nThe station is located on the west side of Ammassalik Island. The closest settlement is Tasiilaq, and it would take around 1 day on foot to get from there to the station. The station is situated on a popular hiking route around the island.\n\n"}
{"id": "11134605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11134605", "title": "Siida (museum)", "text": "Siida (museum)\n\nSiida is a museum located on Lake Inari in the village of Inari in Inari, Finland. It is home to the Sámi Museum and Northern Lapland Nature Centre. Siida arranges exhibitions on Sámi culture and the nature of Northern Lapland. In addition, Siida has an open-air museum open in the summers, which was originally known as the Inari Sámi Museum. The first buildings were moved to the museum grounds in 1960. The area has nearly 50 sites of interest related to Lapland's nature and the Sámi and their culture. Furthermore, the area is where the earliest settlers in Northern Lapland lived and archaeological finds from approximately 9,000 years ago have been found.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000837", "title": "Sinus Asperitatis", "text": "Sinus Asperitatis\n\nSinus Asperitatis (Latin for \"Bay of Roughness\") is an area of lunar mare that extends southward from the Mare Tranquillitatis until it joins the Mare Nectaris to the southeast. It is bordered along the western and eastern sides by continental regions of irregular terrain. The selenographic coordinates of this feature are 3.8° S, 27.4° E, and it has a diameter of 206 km.\n\nIn the northern part of this mare is the small crater Torricelli. At the southern end is the prominent crater pair of Theophilus and Cyrillus. On the border between Sinus Asperitatis and the Mare Nectaris is the crater Mädler.\n"}
{"id": "5303112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5303112", "title": "St Andrews Prize for the Environment", "text": "St Andrews Prize for the Environment\n\nThe St Andrews Prize for the Environment is an international initiative by the University of St Andrews in Scotland and the independent exploration and production company ConocoPhillips.\n\nThe award recognises significant contributions to environmental issues and concerns. Applications are invited from individuals, multi-disciplinary teams or community groups. The winning environmental project receives funding of $100,000 USD and each of the two runners-up receive $25,000 USD.\n\nList of winners has been taken from the St Andrews Prize website\n"}
{"id": "3363994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3363994", "title": "Summer learning loss", "text": "Summer learning loss\n\nSummer learning loss is the loss of academic skills and knowledge over the course of summer holidays. The loss in learning varies across grade level, subject matter, and family income. A common finding across numerous studies is that on average, students score lower on standardized tests at the end of the summer than they do at the beginning of summer (on the same test). Summer loss for all students is estimated to be equal to about 1 month (Cooper 1996), but this varies across subject matter:\n\nFor over a century, scholars have recognized that summer vacation is a period when students’ rate of academic development declines relative to the school year. All children lose academic skills during the summer months, and family socioeconomic status (SES) is highly correlated to the level of academic growth or decline in the summer months. Two-thirds of the academic achievement gap in reading and language found among high school students has been explained through the learning loss that occurs during the summer months of the primary school years.\n\nWhen formal schooling was first established, the school calendar fit the needs of a particular community. When families became more mobile, the school calendar was standardized. The current 9-month calendar that most schools operate\non was established when 85% of Americans (and students) were involved in agriculture, and when climate control did not exist in school buildings. In today's United States, only about 3% of Americans are engaged in agriculture. Also, most schools have air conditioning, making it possible for students to be there in the hotter months. \n\nAfter-school activities and summer programs can play a role in combatting summer learning loss. Studies have shown that if students are able to participate in organized academic activities during the summer months, they are less likely to experience the losses in academic skills and knowledge before the start of the next school year. \n\nThroughout the 20th century, numerous studies examined general learning loss among all students during the summer months. A meta-analysis of 39 studies conducted since 1978 found that in the absence of school, all students score lower on standardized math tests at the end of the summer as compared to their performance on the same tests at the beginning of summer. This loss was most acute in factual and procedural learning such as mathematical computation, where an average setback of more than two months of grade-level equivalency was observed among both middle- and lower-class students. In reading and language, however, substantial differences were found between middle- and lower-class students. Whereas middle-class students showed a nonsignificant gain in reading scores, lower-class students showed a significant loss that represented a gap of about three months of grade-level equivalent reading skills between middle- and lower-class students.\n\nThese results are consistent with other researcher's findings that a family’s socioeconomic status affects children’s achievement scores almost exclusively when school is closed. Barbara Heyns’ 1978 landmark study of 2,978 6th and 7th graders in the Atlanta city public schools was the first thorough investigation of summer learning. Heyns found that while poor children and black children came close to keeping up with middle-class children in cognitive growth when school was in session, they lagged far behind during the summer.\n\nResearchers Doris Entwistle and Karl Alexander extended Barbara Heyns’ line of research through the Beginning School Study (BSS) in 1982. BSS compared the school-year and summer achievement gains of 790 youth across 20 of Baltimore’s public schools from the beginning of first grade in 1982 through the end of elementary school. The study also tracked these students’s progress through high school and college. They found that in year nine, the low-socioeconomic status (SES) group’s Reading Comprehension average lagged 73 points behind the high-SES group’s on the California Achievement Test (CAT-V). About a third of the 73 points difference (27 points) was in place when the students started first grade. After the first grade, the low-SES students fall farther behind each year, with the gap reaching a plateau of around 70 points in the 5th grade. The remaining two-thirds of the 73 point gap accumulate over the course of the elementary and middle school years, with a staggering 48.5 points being attributed to the cumulative summer learning gap from the five elementary years. As this data shows, virtually the entire achievement gap reflects differences between low-SES and high-SES students’ home environments, with cognitive gains during the school year being relatively equal between both groups.\n\nResearchers from The Ohio State University extended summer learning gap research further by conducting a national study of 17,000 kindergarten and first grade children from the Early Childhood Longitudinal Study. The authors confirmed earlier findings of an unequal starting point, showing that a standard deviation’s advantage in SES predicts a 1.77 month advantage in initial reading skill on the first day of kindergarten. The authors also confirmed that the SES achievement gap continues to grow after schooling starts, with summer learning accounting for the vast majority of the difference. While the average kindergarten learning rate was 1.65 test points per month, a standard deviation’s advantage in SES predicted a relative gain of 0.16 points per month during summer, 0.07 points per month during kindergarten, and 0.05 points per month during first grade.\n\nThe United States has a K-12 public school enrollment roughly 48 million, of which only 9.2 percent attend summer school programs. These summer school programs typically differ significantly from the regular school program in terms of curriculum, goals and rigor. Because summer school programs are voluntary, self-selection also confounds the effects of attending. Due to these differences, most summer school programs have not been effective in reducing the achievement gap between low-SES and high-SES youth, and in some cases actually exacerbate the gaps. For those low-SES students who do not have access to high quality summer learning opportunities, the personal impact is significant.\n\nThe early learning gap among low-SES students, which is predominantly driven by summer learning loss in the elementary school years, casts a long achievement shadow. When compared to high-SES youth, the low-SES youth are “more likely to enter adulthood without high school certification (36 percent versus 3 percent at age twenty-two) and less likely to attend a four-year college (7 percent versus 59 percent, also at age twenty-two).\" The college wage premium doubled from 1967 to 1997, while the dropout penalty similarly doubled. In an economy that is increasingly unaccommodating of low-skill workers, joblessness and declining wages are related to growth in ghetto poverty. In characterizing the U.S. poverty population, John Iceland revealed that “poor African-American children are less likely to escape poverty than others – 1 in 3 were still poor at ages 25 to 27, as compared to 1 in 12 white children.\" While no consensus has been reached on a model to explain this lack of mobility, some research has provided the strongest support for the economic resources model, “where parents’ lack of money and time hinders the ability to invest in children’s education.\" The correlation between SES and educational attainment thus has significant implications for the likelihood of low-SES children escaping poverty.\n\nCooper’s (1996) study (as cited in Graham, McNamara and VanLankveld, 2011, pg.575) indicates that the gap in the learning cycle which occurs during summer vacation is more prominent for children that are less advantaged. Children who are the most susceptible are those from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, ethnic minorities and students with exceptionalities (Graham, 2011; Guryan & Kim, 2010; & Kim, 2006). Further, it is predominantly literacy related skills that are affected the most (Graham,2011).\n\nIn a study conducted by Kim (2006) an intervention was designed to provide children with effective summer learning experiences and to improve the reading abilities of minority student’s and struggling readers. The results of the study indicate that the most significant reading gains occurred for disadvantaged students while students from middle to high socio-economic upbringings remained stable on standardized measures of reading (Kim, 2006). However, such findings are not consistent with a recent review by Guryan and Kim (2010) whereby a summer reading intervention was implemented for low-income Latino children. Low-income parents often lack the resources to provide children with sufficient reading materials needed to reinforce important literacy skills. Further children who are English language learners need additional exposure to print material, which may be difficult for children in homes where English is not the native language (Guryan and Kim, 2010).\n\nThe majority of the literature which examines the effects of the summer learning loss lends to the importance of involving families in the implementation of summer reading programs. Graham, McNamara and Van Lankveld (2011) conducted a summer literacy program to address specific literacy needs of young children which also required the involvement of caregivers in program delivery. Children as well as caregivers attended literacy skill building workshops where instructional sessions were tailored towards both children and parents, as well as include a collaborative component. Based on the analysis of pre-test and post-test data collected during the study, children demonstrated significant improvements in developing their literacy skills (Graham, 2011).\n\nTimmons (2008) also identifies the importance of providing literacy education to parents and children, while also bringing them together to work collaboratively in group situations. The active involvement of caregivers in their child’s educational career only enhances academic achievement, as research indicates the significant influence that family involvement has on successful student outcomes (Timmons, 2008). Effective summer reading programs provide families with meaningful strategies and resources that can be carried over and implemented in their home, which ensures continuity of summer reading programs throughout year, after the intervention has concluded (Timmons, 2008).\n\nThe Learning Disabilities Association of Ontario is a not for profit organization that provides support programs and services to children and families living with learning disabilities in many communities. A formal diagnosis is not required to access support.\n\n"}
{"id": "44663137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44663137", "title": "Supercritical liquid–gas boundaries", "text": "Supercritical liquid–gas boundaries\n\nSupercritical liquid–gas boundaries are lines in the p–T diagram that delimit more liquid-like and more gas-like states of a supercritical fluid. They comprise the Fisher–Widom line, the Widom line, and the Frenkel line.\n\nAccording to textbook knowledge, it is possible to transform a liquid continuously into a gas, without undergoing a phase transition, by heating and compressing strongly enough to go around the critical point. However, different criteria still allow to distinguish liquid-like and more gas-like states of a supercritical fluid. These criteria result in different boundaries in the pT plane. These lines emanate either from the critical point, or from the liquid–vapor boundary (boiling curve) somewhat below the critical point. They do not correspond to first or second order phase transitions, but to weaker singularities.\n\nThe Fisher–Widom line is the boundary between monotonic and oscillating asymptotics of the pair correlation function formula_1.\n\nThe Widom line is a generalization thereof, apparently so named by H. Eugene Stanley. However, it was first measured experimentally in 1956 by Jones and Walker, and subsequently named the 'hypercritical line' by Bernal in 1964, who suggested a structural interpretation. The Frenkel line is a boundary between \"rigid\" and \"non-rigid\" fluids characterized by the onset of transverse sound modes.\n\nOne of the above mentioned criteria is based on the velocity autocorrelation function (vacf): below the Frenkel line the vacf demonstrates oscillatory behaviour, while above it the vacf monotonically decays to zero. The second criterion is based on the fact that at moderate temperatures liquids can sustain transverse excitations, which disappear upon heating. One further criterion is based on isochoric heat capacity measurements. The isochoric heat capacity per particle of a monatomic liquid near to the melting line is close to formula_2 (where formula_3 is the Boltzmann constant). The contribution to the heat capacity due to the potential part of transverse excitations is formula_4. Therefore at the Frenkel line, where transverse excitations vanish, the isochoric heat capacity per particle should be formula_5, a direct prediction from the phonon theory of liquid thermodynamics.\n\nAnisimov \"et al.\" (2004),\nwithout referring to Frenkel, Fisher or Widom, reviewed thermodynamic derivatives (specific heat, expansion coefficient, compressibility) and transport coefficients (viscosity, speed of sound) in supercritical water, and found pronounced extrema as function of pressure up to 100 K above \"T\".\n\n8. G. G. Simeoni, T. Bryk, F. A. Gorelli, M. Krisch, G. Ruocco, M. Santoro & T. Scopigno, The Widom line as the crossover between liquid-like and gas-like behaviour in supercritical fluids, Nature Physics 6, 503–507 (2010) http://www.nature.com/nphys/journal/v6/n7/full/nphys1683.html?foxtrotcallback=true\n"}
{"id": "69137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69137", "title": "Thyine wood", "text": "Thyine wood\n\nThyine wood is a 15th-century English name for a wood from the tree known botanically as \"Tetraclinis articulata\" (syn. \"Callitris quadrivalvis\", \"Thuja articulata\"). The name is derived from the Greek word \"thuon\", \"fragrant wood,\" or possibly \"thuein\", “to sacrifice”, and it was so called because it was burnt in sacrifices, on account of its fragrance.\n\nIn Rome, wood from this tree was called \"citrum\", \"citrus wood\". It was considered very valuable, and was used for making articles of furniture by the Greeks and Romans. Craftsmen who worked in citrus wood and ivory had their own guild \"(collegium)\".\n\nThyine wood is mentioned in the King James Version of the Bible at Revelation 18:12 as being among the articles which would cease to be purchased when Babylon fell. The New International Version translates the passage \"citron wood\"; the Amplified Bible translates it as \"scented wood\".\n\nThe resin is used as the basis for euparal, a mounting medium used in microscopy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1704616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704616", "title": "Tisvilde", "text": "Tisvilde\n\nTisvilde is a small town with a population of 1,537 (1 January 2014) located on the north coast of the island Zealand (Sjælland) in Denmark in Gribskov Municipality, northeast of Hillerød.\n\nTisvildeleje is the coastal part of Tisvilde. \"Leje\" roughly translates as 'plain' and used to be a fishermans village. Now most of the fishermen's houses are used as charming summer residences. The southeast of Tisvilde is referred to as Tibirke.\n\nTisvilde, alongside Hornbæk further to the east, has the highest prices of summer houses in Denmark. A 175 sqn summer house was sold for DKK22 mio. in 2017.\n\nThe name Tisvilde broken down to Tis-vilde, means \"Ti's vælde\" and have many interpretations. It can be understood as \"Where Tyr Reigns\" and the area is conceived as dedicated to the god Tyr in former ages. Ti is a common word for Tir (Týr) in Danish place names and can also mean God, without being specific about what God. \"Væld\" also means a \"spring\" and that spring is believed to be the spring known as Helene Spring nowadays. In addition \"Væld\" is also referring to the old Nordic word \"ved\" or \"wald\" meaning \"Forest\". Tisvilde was previously covered by extensive oak woods, before the sand drifts began. So all in all, Tisvilde has three parallel meanings: \"Where Tyr Reigns\", \"Tyrs Spring\" and \"Tyrs Forest\".\n\nThe word Leje is used in several other place names in Denmark, such as Liseleje west of Tisvildeleje or Rågeleje and Gilleleje to the east.\n\nFrom around 1500, drifting sands began to bury the fields and farms around Tisvilde. The problem accelerated over the years and by 1700, most of the area had been deserted. Several attempts to counter the forces of nature, had been tried, but in 1724 the German Johan Ulrich Røhl was hired by the Crown and by help of the local peasants and 100 soldiers from Copenhagen, they managed to stop the dunes in the course of the 1730s, by covering them with seaweed and digging trenches. But while the dunes was successfully stopped in their march against civilisation, the sands had covered and transformed the countryside and made it completely barren. From around 1800 to 1900 this state was reversed, by planting the c. 1,300 ha forest of Tisvilde Hegn in association with the plantations of Asserbo and Liseleje southwest. The first tree species to be planted was scots pine and later followed by spruce, birch, beech and oak. Tisvilde Hegn is the oldest plantation in Denmark and now a Natura 2000 area, due to its rare habitat-types, flora and fauna and important birdlife. This area is a part of the Kongernes Nordsjælland National Park. Some of the species protected here are northern crested newt and large white-faced darter.\n\nThe coastline at Tisvilde Hegn is known for its stretches of white, clean and child-friendly sandy beaches.\n\n\n\nBeing a popular summer destination for tourists, the level of activity is at its peak during the summer months. Examples are:\n\n\nTwo Danish Nobel laureates, the scientist Niels Bohr and the writer Johannes V. Jensen, both lived in Tisvilde for extended periods of time. Other notable people who lived in Tisvilde include the painter William Scharff and the composer Knudåge Riisager.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58096762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58096762", "title": "Together for Sustainability", "text": "Together for Sustainability\n\nTogether for Sustainability AISBL (TfS) is a joint initiative of chemical companies, founded in 2011. It focuses on the promotion of sustainability practices in the chemical industry's supply chain, currently gathering 22 companies around a single standard of auditing and assessment. \n\nOver the past few years sustainability aspects in the chemical industry have become more important and holistic. Nowadays, chemical companies’ measures focusing sustainability include apart from ecological aspects also social concerns and collaborative issues.\n\nToday, it has been well accepted that the creation of sustainable chemical supply chains requires a joint effort beyond individual businesses. These efforts should integrate chemical companies, suppliers, customers as well as consumers. \n\nProf. Dr Wolfgang Stolze and Marc Müller of the University of St. Gallen summarize the development in the chemical industry in recent years as follows: “The scope of sustainability in the chemical industry has evolved from a firm-level construct with a strong focus on green aspects to a chain-level approach attempting to address the triple bottom line of economic, social and environmental elements.” \n\nThe Together for Sustainability initiative was founded in 2011 by BASF, Bayer, Evonik, Henkel, Lanxess, and Solvay. The objective was to develop a global supplier engagement program and improve their own sustainability sourcing practices in line with the United Nations Global Compact. \n\nSince June 2012, TfS conducts assessments and audits by independent experts, as well as the early partnership with the French company EcoVadis, which provided with sustainability scorecards and benchmarks.\n\nSince January 2015, the TfS initiative is incorporated as an international non-profit association according to the Belgian law. \n\nTfS has developed and implemented a global supplier engagement program that assesses sustainability sourcing practices, including ecological and social aspects. The focus in the supply chain of the member companies seeks to reduce inefficiencies and share best practices among the members' suppliers . Moreover TfS provides the framework for conducting assessments and audits across the chemical industry supply chain, organizes workshops, and provides e-learning tools. \n\nThe TfS approach consists of two core elements: \n\nThe TfS is governed by two main organs, the General Assembly and the Steering Committee. \nThe General Assembly is formed by all the Chief Procurement Officers of the member companies, and holds power over the direction and structure of the organization, as well as approving the decisions of the Steering Committee. \nThe Steering Committee, formed by six elected members of the General Assembly as well as the TfS president, is the executive council of the organization and decides upon its activities and projects.\n\nAdditionally, TfS has several Regional Operating Committees (Asia, United States and South America) as well as, currently, four mission-specific work streams led and staffed by participants from the TfS member companies:\n\nTfS’ headquarter is in Brussels. It manages the day-to-day affairs of the organization and stays in close contact with the representatives and coordinators of the member companies. \n\nTfS is working towards partnership with several other chemical industry associations: American Chemistry Council (ACC), European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), German Chemistry Council (VCI), China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF), Indian Chemical Council (ICC), and the Associação Brasileira da Indústria Química (ABIQUIM). \n\nMembership in the TfS is open to all companies in the chemical industry who subscribe to the United Nations Global Compact, Responsible Care, and show a commitment to sustainability. TfS membership has been growing steadily since its founding, and in May 2018 its members had a joint global turnover of € 313 Billion.\n\nAs of November 2018, TfS has 22 member companies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56065415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56065415", "title": "VRSS-2", "text": "VRSS-2\n\nVRSS-2 (Venezuelan Remote Sensing Satellite-2) is the second Venezuelan remote sensing satellite, and the third Venezuelan satellite after VRSS-1. It will be used to study Venezuelan territory and support planning, agriculture and disaster recovery. It was built and launched by the Chinese and has been named after Venezuelan revolutionary Antonio Jose de Sucre.\n\nThe satellite was built after a contract between Venezuela and China was signed in Caracas on 05 Oct 2014 , and follows from their previous collaboration on VRSS-1 Miranda Remote Sensing Satellite. The contract, worth $170 million USD, The main contractor is China Great Wall Industry Corporation and the satellite is based on the CAST 2000 bus developed by the China Academy of Space Technology. \n\nThe satellite contains two different cameras, High Resolution Camera (HRC) and Infrared Camera (IRC). The highest resolution band 0.98 mt GSD in panchromatic, and 4 mts GSD in multispectral. The Infrared cameras have a resolution of (Long Wave) 60 mts and (Short Wave) 30 mts GSD, totaling 10 spectral bands. \n\nThe satellite passes over Venezuela three or four times every 24 hours, covering the same area in 101 days at Nadir. Is operated from the Base Aeroespacial Capitán Manuel Ríos in El Sombrero, Guárico state by Venezuela's Bolivarian Agency for Space Activities, design life span (5 years)\n\nThe satellite was launched in October 9th 2017 at 4:12 UTC from Jiuquan Launch Centre in P.R China by a Long March 2D rocket, into a Sun Synchronous Descending Orbital node at 10:30am low earth orbit. It was given the international designator 2017-060A and United States Space Command Satellite Catalog Number 42954.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28956699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28956699", "title": "Velvet season", "text": "Velvet season\n\nVelvet season ( ) is a term for one of the most comfortable parts of the year for people to live in the subtropics, particularly in mediterranean climate conditions. During the velvet season, the weather is not as hot as it is in mid-summer months but is still quite warm, even at night. In northern latitudes dominated by a temperate climate, an analog of \"velvet season\" is the Indian summer.\n\nThe term appeared in the late nineteenth or early twentieth centuries in Imperial Russia when it was fashionable to vacation in the Crimea. According to Alexander Levintov, at the beginning of the twentieth century \"velvet season\" referred to several weeks in April and May, when the court and the royal family moved from St. Petersburg to the Crimea. Fur clothes were replaced with velvet, as the Crimea at this time was still cool. The summer in the Crimea was called calico season and September called plys season.\n\nAlthough its origins relate to the nobility, the velvet season came to have a more general meaning. It is better defined by the general public‘s tastes, behaviors, and morals than by those of the nobility. By the 1900s, people traveled for the velvet season because it was fashionable and they were hoping to meet people, rather than because the court was traveling.\n\nWell-known Russian author Alexander Kuprin, described Velvet season in his 1914 short story \"The Wine Barrel\" (Винная Бочка):This is the golden days for Yalta, and, perhaps, for all of the Crimean coast. It lasts not more than a month and usually coincides with the last week of Great Lent, Easter and St. Thomas' Sunday. Some people come to get rid of sad necessity to do visits; others, as a newlywed, making their wedding trip; and the third, the majority, because in Yalta at this time gathers everything noble and rich, it is possible to express themselves with dress and beauty, strike up favorable acquaintances. The nature, of course, noticed by no one. And I must say that Crimea is truly beautiful in this early spring time, all in white and pink frame of blooming apple trees, almonds, pears, peaches and apricots, is not dusty, not malodorous, refreshed by magical sea air. \n\nAlthough it has proven impossible to determine the exact point in time, at some point, the velvet season switched from referring to the spring to the fall, overlapping with the wool/silk seasons in August and September.\n"}
{"id": "37418456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37418456", "title": "Wattle (construction)", "text": "Wattle (construction)\n\nWattle is a lightweight construction material made by weaving thin branches (either whole, or more usually split) or slats between upright stakes to form a woven lattice. It has commonly been used to make fences and hurdles for enclosing ground or handling livestock. The wattle may be made as loose panels, slotted between timber framing to make infill panels, or it may be made in place to form the whole of a fence or wall. The technique goes back to Neolithic times. \n\nIt forms the substructure of wattle and daub, a composite building material used for making walls, in which \"wattle\" is \"daubed\" with a sticky material usually made of some combination of wet soil, clay, sand, animal dung and straw. Wattle and daub has been used for at least 6,000 years, and is still an important construction material in many parts of the world. This process is similar to modern lath and plaster, a common building material for wall and ceiling surfaces, in which a series of nailed wooden strips are covered with plaster smoothed into a flat surface.\nMany historic buildings include wattle and daub construction, and the technique is becoming popular again in more developed areas as a low-impact sustainable building technique.\n\nSquare panels are large, wide panels used as hurdles or forming panelling in some later timber frame houses. They have a square shape although sometimes they are triangular to accommodate arched or decorative bracing. This style does require wattles to be woven for better support of the daub.\n\nTo insert wattles in a square panel several steps are required. First, a series of evenly spaced holes are drilled along the middle of the inner face of each upper timber. Next, a continuous groove is cut along the middle of each inner face of the lower timber in each panel. Vertical slender timbers, known as staves, are then inserted and these hold the whole panel within the timber frame. The staves are positioned into the holes and then sprung into the grooves. They must be placed with sufficient gaps to weave the flexible horizontal wattles.\n"}
{"id": "51387412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51387412", "title": "Zonal wavenumber", "text": "Zonal wavenumber\n\nIn meteorological applications, a zonal wavenumber or hemispheric wavenumber is the dimensionless number of wavelengths fitting within a full circle around the globe at a given latitude.\n\nwhere \"λ\" is the wavelength, \"r\" is the Earth's radius, and formula_2 is the latitude.\n\nZonal wavenumbers are typically counted on the upper level (say 500-millibar) geopotential maps by identifying troughs and ridges of the waves. Wavenumber 1 has one trough and one ridge, i.e. one wavelength fits formula_3 degrees. Wavenumber 2 has two ridges and two troughs around 360 degrees.\n\nWavenumber 0 corresponds to zonal (symmetric) flow. Wavenumbers 1–6 are called long waves and often synonymous in meteorological literature with the mid-latitude planetary Rossby waves.\n\n"}
