{"id": "1833646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1833646", "title": "ALD-52", "text": "ALD-52\n\nALD-52, also known as 1-acetyl-LSD, is a chemical analogue of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD). It was originally discovered by Albert Hofmann but was not widely studied until the rise in popularity of psychedelics in the 1960s.\n\nIn Entry 26 of his compendium \"TiHKAL\", which discussed LSD, Shulgin touched briefly on the subject of ALD-52. His writings are vague second hand accounts saying doses in the 50–175 µg range have resulted in various conclusions. One account found that there was less visual distortion than with LSD and it seemed to produce less anxiety and tenseness and that it was somewhat less potent. Another informant claimed it was more effective in increasing blood pressure. Yet another informant could not tell them apart.\n\nIn \"The Hallucinogens\" by Hoffer and Osmond (1967), ALD-52 is listed as having a lower (approximately /) \"intravenous\" toxicity (in rabbits), a lower (approximately /) pyretogenic effect, an equal psychological effect in humans, and double the \"antiserotonin\" effect as compared with LSD. Human experiments have not been well documented.\n\nIt is possible ALD-52 was the active chemical in the Orange Sunshine variety of LSD that was widely available in California through 1968 and 1969. The Sonoma County underground chemistry lab of Tim Scully and Nicholas Sand was Orange Sunshine's source. It was shut down by the police, and Scully was arrested and prosecuted. This resulted in the first drug analogue trial, where Scully claimed that he and his partners did nothing illegal, because they were producing ALD-52, which was not an illicit drug. However, as the prosecution claimed, there were problems with such a rationale—ALD-52 was claimed to readily undergo hydrolysis to LSD, and secondly, the synthesis of ALD-52 required LSD. (The second point was based on the methods available in the scientific literature at the time). Scully was convicted and served time in prison.\n\nTim Scully has confirmed that the speculation above is incorrect. In a Reddit AMA with the director of the movie The Sunshine Makers, he says \"The Orange Sunshine we delivered was LSD 25. ALD 52 was an ill-advised desperate defense strategy that failed miserably... The story of Orange Sunshine is complicated by the fact that The Brotherhood distributed LSD from more than one manufacturer as Orange Sunshine. \"Nick and I made the original Orange Sunshine in Windsor. That was the last lab I worked in making LSD. Ron Stark managed several LSD labs in Europe and most of his output was tableted and sold as Orange Sunshine. At least some of the LSD that his labs made was not pure.\"\n\nOn June 10, 2014 the UK Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) recommended that ALD-52 be specifically named in the UK Misuse of Drugs Act as a class A drug despite not identifying it as ever having been sold or any harm associated with its use. The UK Home office accepted this advice and announced a ban of the substance to be enacted on 6 January 2015 as part of The Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 (Amendment) (No. 2) Order 2014.\nSince March 2018, ALD-52 is illegal in Switzerland and has been put in the RS 812.121.11.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21027316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21027316", "title": "Acem Meditation", "text": "Acem Meditation\n\nAcem Meditation is a meditation technique developed in Norway since 1966 by the Acem School of Meditation and is now taught in many countries. It is non-religious, and its effects are attributed to psychological and physiological mechanisms. It is process-oriented, correct meditation being defined in terms of practice rather than experiences or states of mind. In contrast to many other forms of meditation, it makes no use of concentration, but instead allows spontaneous thoughts to come and go during the practice. According to Acem, this increases relaxation effects and stimulates long-term processes of personal growth.\n\nAcem Meditation involves the mental repetition of a simple sound, called a \"meditation sound\", a meaningless combination of vowels and consonants which is believed to help mind and body relax and to bring unconscious material closer to consciousness.\n\nThe way the meditator repeats the meditation sound is considered to be of paramount importance: the sound should be repeated with a so-called 'free mental attitude', i.e., in an effortless manner which does not require concentration and which allows thoughts, feelings and other impulses to come and go freely; forgetting the sound from time to time because one is absorbed by spontaneous thoughts is considered a central part of the technique.\n\nIn keeping with this emphasis on a free mental attitude, Acem does not recommend any meditation position that strains the body. The meditator should sit comfortably with good support for the lower back. Meditation habits vary, but for long-term results 30 minutes twice a day or 45 minutes once a day is recommended.\n\nAcem Meditation offers beginner's courses, courses for established meditators, and retreats with long meditations. These courses emphasise group dynamics and encourage discussion of one's practice. Individual or group guidance is seen as a help to increase the effect of meditation, and sometimes provides opportunities for discussion of central life issues, which are believed to be reflected in one's meditative practice.\n\nLong meditations (i.e. meditations of more than an hour) followed by guidance are believed to provide deeper relaxation and increase the potential for personal growth. Most Acem centres arrange meetings with meditations of 1½ to 2 hours. At retreats, the length of time is increased beyond the 3-hour level, and at so-called deepening retreats beyond the 6-hour level.\n\nIn recent years, an increasing amount of research has been carried out on the psychological and physiological effects of meditation techniques in general and of Acem Meditation in particular.\n\nIn his 2004 doctoral thesis from the Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway, Dr. Erik Ekker Solberg explored the psychobiological effects of Acem Meditation.\n\nOne of his studies shows that Acem Meditation reduces heart rate, blood pressure, and muscular tension. The heart rate reduction is stronger and more stable than at ordinary rest. A slow heart rate is usually considered to indicate relaxation.\n\nDr. Solberg's research also suggests that advanced meditators have higher melatonin levels than non-meditators (though melatonin decreases during long meditation), possibly an effect of long-term relaxation.\n\nIn a study of performance under stress, marksmen who had learned Acem Meditation improved their results in competition marksmanship, compared to a control group that did not learn meditation, indicating that Acem Meditation reduces the level of stress in tense and demanding situations.\n\nAnother study showed that the meditators had significantly lower blood lactate concentration after physical exercise than the control group, indicating faster recovery.\n\nIn a study on the effect of meditation on immune cells, Erik Solberg found that long term practice of meditation may influence absolute lymphocyte counts at rest. Runners practising meditation had lower lymphocyte counts at rest before the race.\n\nRelaxation is presented as a basic effect of Acem Meditation. The beneficial effects of the technique on insomnia, concentration problems, headaches and other bodily symptoms, social relations etc. are seen as extensions of the relaxation response elicited by the practice. Acem Meditation is often used as a tool in stress management, and Acem also arranges courses specifically designed to deal with stress.\n\nFor regular practitioners, however, Acem Meditation is typically seen as a method for long-term personal growth rather than just a relaxation technique. According to Acem's psychology of meditation, meditation may help the individual to overcome some of the limitations set by his or her personality, leading to a freer frame of mind and a higher degree of receptivity and sensitivity. The same limitations that create problems for the person in his everyday life will also at times influence his meditation practice. For instance, a tense person may repeat the meditation sound too forcefully, while an evasive person may tend to be more passive in his meditation. Adjusting one's meditative practice is seen as a means to overcome such limitations, not only in meditation, but also in everyday life. The most important elements in Acem's psychological understanding of the technique are explained in the book \"Inner Strength — the free mental attitude in Acem Meditation\".\n\nAre Holen learned deep meditation (later called Transcendental Meditation) from Mahesh Yogi in 1962 and in January 1966 founded the Academic Meditation Society, precursor to the Acem School of Meditation, at the University of Oslo. At first, he represented Mahesh Yogi in Norway, but Acem soon distanced itself from the transcendental meditation movement due to disagreements about methods and ideology.\n\nInner Strength — the free mental attitude of Acem Meditation, Acem Publishing, <br>\nAcem Meditation — an introductory companion, Acem Publishing, \nFighting Stress — Reviews of meditation research, Edited by Svend Davanger, Halvor Eifring and Anne Grete Hersoug, \n\nAcem Meditation International\n"}
{"id": "33312263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33312263", "title": "Anuradha (nakshatra)", "text": "Anuradha (nakshatra)\n\nAnuradha is the seventeenth nakshatra (lunar mansion) in Hindu astrology having a spread from 3°20' to 16°40'. Anuradha is ruled by Shani (Saturn).\nMitra is the deity for Anuradha Nakshatra. \n\nNikita also Anuradha"}
{"id": "40228792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40228792", "title": "Axios (acclamation)", "text": "Axios (acclamation)\n\n\"Axios!\" (Greek ἄξιος, \"worthy of\", \"deserving of\", \"suitable\") is an acclamation adopted by the early Eastern Orthodox church and made by the faithful at the ordination of bishops, priests and deacons. The acclamation may also be made when a bishop presents an ecclesiastical award to a clergyman during the Divine Liturgy.\n\nThe ecclesiastical custom has its origins in the early Christianity, when the clergy were elected by the entire church community, including the laity. This was based upon the precedent set in the Acts of the Apostles (; ). Election and ordination (Greek: \"cheirotonia\" - χειροτονία, literally, \"laying-on of hands\") are two separate actions. The election was accomplished by all, the laying-on of hands by the bishops only (). Because of the danger of politicizing the process, and because of electoral corruption, the clergy began to be appointed by the episcopate alone (a priest or deacon is appointed by the ruling bishop; a bishop is elected by a synod). A remnant of the election remains at the beginning of the ordination ceremony when the candidate is brought forward and bows first to the people, then to the clergy, and finally to the ordaining bishop—each of the three classes that would have been involved in the election. As he bows to each, a deacon proclaims: \"Command!\", inviting not only consent but authorization to proceed with the ordination.\n\nThe biblical participation of the laity in the ordination is still fulfilled, when the newly ordained is being vested and presented to the people by the bishop, they will exclaim, \"Axios! Axios! Axios!\" to show their approval.\n\nThere has been some discussion as to whether or not the withholding of \"Axios\" by the laity would somehow invalidate the ordination. However, the role of the laity has never been a sacramental one, and the teaching of the church regarding the validity of the Mysteries (Sacraments) is that they are not dependent upon the worthiness of the minister (see Donatism).\n\nWhen a bishop wishes to confer an ecclesiastical award or honor on a deacon or priest under his jurisdiction, this will normally be accomplished at the Little Entrance of the Divine Liturgy. At the end of the Third Antiphon, the procession with the Gospel Book will halt at the bishop's cathedra. The clergyman who is to receive the award will be presented to the bishop, the protodeacon will remove the bishop's mitre, the bishop will lay his hand upon the head of the clergyman and say the prayer for the particular award. He will then confer the award (a pectoral cross, kamilavka, mitre, etc.) and the people will exclaim, \"Axios! Axios! Axios!\" This exclamation does not indicate any participation of the laity as it does at ordination; rather, it is simply an expression of their acknowledgment of the clergyman's worthiness for the award, similar to applause at a secular awards ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "3598396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598396", "title": "Bahá'í Faith and the unity of religion", "text": "Bahá'í Faith and the unity of religion\n\nUnity of religion is a core teaching of the Bahá'í Faith which states that there is a fundamental unity in many of the world's religions. The principle states that the teachings of the major religions are part of a single plan directed from the same God. It is one of the core teachings of the Bahá'í Faith, alongside the unity of God, and the unity of humanity.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that there is but one religion which is progressively revealed by God, through prophets/messengers, to mankind as humanity matures and its capacity to understand also grows. The outward differences in the religions, the Bahá'í writings state, are due to the exigencies of the time and place the religion was revealed.\nThe Bahá'í writings state that the essential nature of the messengers is twofold: they are at once human and divine. They are divine in that they all come from the same God and expound His teachings. In this light they are seen as one and the same. At the same time they are separate individuals (their human reality) and known by different names. Each fulfills a definite mission, and is entrusted with a particular revelation.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, claimed to be the most recent, but not the last, in a series of divine educators which include Jesus, Buddha, Muhammad, and others.\n\nThe Bahá'í teachings state that religion has been revealed progressively from the same God through different prophets/messengers, who at different times through history and in different locations come to provide the teachings of God. In this way the Bahá'í teachings see that religion has the same foundation, and that the various religions are \"different stages in the eternal history and constant evolution of one religion\".\nThe Bahá'í concept of progressive revelation states that God is regular and periodic in revealing His will to mankind through messengers/prophets, which are named Manifestations of God. Each messenger in turn establishes a covenant and founds a religion. This process of revelation, according to the Bahá'í writings, is also never ceasing, The general theme of the successive and continuous religions founded by Manifestations of God is that there is an evolutionary tendency, and that each Manifestation of God brings a larger measure of revelation (or religion) to humankind than the previous one. The differences in the revelation brought by the Manifestations of God is stated to be not inherent in the characteristics of the Manifestation of God, but instead attributed to the various worldly, societal and human factors; these differences are in accordance with the \"conditions\" of the time the messenger came and the \"spiritual capacity\" of humanity. The Bahá'í teaching states that while certain aspects of religious teachings are absolute, others are relative; for example all religions would prescribe honesty and denounce theft, but each religion may have different laws related to social institutions such as divorce. These differences in the teachings of the various religions are seen in the Bahá'í teachings to be needed since human society has slowly and gradually evolved through higher stages of unification from the family to tribes and then nations.\n\nThus religious truth is seen to be relative to its recipients and not absolute; while the messengers proclaimed eternal moral and spiritual truths that are renewed by each messenger, they also changed their message to reflect the particular spiritual and material evolution of humanity at the time of the appearance of the messenger. In the Bahá'í view, since humanity's spiritual capacity and receptivity has increased over time, the extent to which these spiritual truths are expounded changes.\n\nThe \"Manifestation of God\" is a concept in the Bahá'í Faith that refers to what are commonly called prophets. The Manifestations of God are a series of personages who reflect the attributes of the divine into the human world for the progress and advancement of human morals and civilization. The Manifestations of God are the only channel for humanity to know about God, and they act as perfect mirrors reflecting the attributes of God into the physical world. Bahá'í teachings hold that the motive force in all human development is due to the coming of the Manifestations of God.\n\nIn Bahá'í belief all of the Manifestations of God are from the same God and have the same spiritual and metaphysical nature, and that there is absolute equality between them. The differences between the various Manifestations of God and their teachings, Bahá'u'lláh explained, are due to the varying needs and capacities of the civilization in which they appeared, and not due to any differences in their level of importance or nature.\n\nThe Manifestations of God are taught to be \"one and the same\", and in their relationship to one another have both the station of unity and the station of distinction. In this sense, the Manifestations of God all fulfill the same purpose and perform the same function by mediating between God and creation. In this way each Manifestation of God manifested the Word of God and taught the same religion, with modifications for the particular audience's needs and culture. Bahá'u'lláh wrote that since each Manifestation of God has the same divine attributes they can be seen as the spiritual \"return\" of all the previous Manifestations of God.\n\nThe Bahá'í belief in the oneness of the Manifestations of God does not mean, however, that the same individual soul is born again at different times and in different physical bodies. In the Bahá'í view, the various Manifestations of God were all different personalities and had separate individual realities. Instead their equality is due to that Manifestation of God manifested and revealed the qualities of God to the same degree.\n\nThere is no definitive list of Manifestations of God, but Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá referred to several personages as Manifestations; they include Adam, Noah, Krishna, Moses, Abraham, Zoroaster, Buddha, Jesus and Muhammad. The Báb, as well as Bahá'u'lláh, were included in this definition. Thus religious history is interpreted as a series of periods or \"dispensations\", where each \"Manifestation\" brings a somewhat broader and more advanced revelation, suited for the time and place in which it was expressed.\n\nBahá'ís do not claim that the Bahá'í revelation is the final stage in God's direction in the course of human spiritual evolution. The Bahá'í writings contain assurances that after 1000 years, another Manifestation of God will appear to advance human civilization.\n\nOne of the fundamental principles of the Bahá'í Faith is that religious truth is not absolute but relative. The teachings of the different world religions are seen as 'facets of one truth'. Bahá'í texts include statements of a dualist nature (e.g. in the \"Book of Certitude\") and statements of a monist nature (e.g. in the \"Seven Valleys\" and the \"Hidden Words\"). Moojan Momen, in his translation of 'Abdu'l-Bahá's commentary on the tradition \"I was a Hidden Treasure\", states that the differences between dualist and monist views are reconciled by the teaching that these opposing viewpoints are caused by differences in the observers themselves, not in that what is observed. This is not a 'higher truth/lower truth' position. God is unknowable. For man it is impossible to get any knowledge of God or the Absolute, because any knowledge that one has, is relative. Theological differences about God are caused by imagination, as God's essence can not be described. Less stress is given to metaphysical subjects, while ethics and social action are emphasized.\n\nIan Kluge holds a different view than Momen, which he calls 'relationalism' (associated with the process philosophy as described by A.N. Whitehead and his successors). Kluge states that the Bahá'í teachings do not accept an ontological monism and that not all views can be correct. \n\nKeven Brown concludes that the \"realities of things are manifestations of the first thing to emanate from God, the Primal Will\", but they are \"not manifestations of the unknowable and inaccessible Godhead\", and that according to the Bahá'í teachings the \"true meaning of union (or knowing) in the mystic quest is not union with (or knowing) the Essence of God (which is impossible to attain), but recognition of the Manifestation of God for the day in which one lives\". Nader Saiedi describes the Báb's explanations about the dual stations of the \"Point\", another term for the Primal Will of God.\n\nRoland Faber has discussed the subject from a non-dualist Buddhist perspective.\n\nBahá'ís follow Bahá'u'lláh, a prophet whom they consider a successor to Zoroaster, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, Krishna and Buddha. This acceptance of other religious founders has encouraged some to regard the Bahá'í religion as a syncretic faith. However, Bahá'ís and the Bahá'í writings explicitly reject this view. Bahá'ís consider Bahá'u'lláh's revelation an independent, though related, revelation from God. Its relationship to previous dispensations is seen as analogous to the relationship of Christianity to Judaism. They regard beliefs held in common as evidence of truth, progressively revealed by God throughout human history, and culminating in (at present) the Bahá'í revelation. Bahá'ís have their own sacred scripture, interpretations, laws and practices that, for Bahá'ís, supersede those of other faiths.\n\nIn 2002 the Universal House of Justice wrote a letter to the world's religious leaders, addressing the disease of sectarian hatreds, calling on all religious movements to \"rise above fixed conceptions inherited from a distant past.\" In 2005 the document \"One Common Faith\" was published, primarily intended for a Bahá'í audience, in which it identifies as a major challenge for the Bahá'í community the inculcation of the principle of the oneness of religion and the overcoming of religious prejudices.\n\n\n\nPrimary sources:\n\nSecondary sources:\n\n"}
{"id": "10251253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10251253", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Afghanistan", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Afghanistan\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Afghanistan was introduced in 1880s when some Baha'is visited Afghanistan. However, it wasn't until the 1930s that a Bahá'í community was established there. The first Bahá'í administrative institution Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1948 in Kabul and then was re-elected in 1969. Though the population had perhaps reached thousands, under the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the harsh rule of the Taliban the Bahá'ís lost the right to have any institutions and many fled. Although the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated there were some 15000 Bahá'ís in 2005, the Bahá'ís in Afghanistan number at approximately 400 according to a more recent 2007 US estimate.\n\nDuring Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, Jamal Effendi may have been the first Bahá'í to visit the area of Afghanistan in the late 1880s, according to Baha'i sources.\n\nThe first Afghan who became a Baha'i outside of Afghanistan was Dr. Ata'u'llah Khan. He was then living in Samarqand and heard of the faith through Mirza Abu'l-Fada'il.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917 suggesting Bahá'ís take the religion to many places; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan but were delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919. One tablet says in part:\nO that I could travel, even though on foot and in the utmost poverty, to these regions, and, raising the call of “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá” in cities, villages, mountains, deserts and oceans, promote the divine teachings! This, alas, I cannot do. How intensely I deplore it! Please God, ye may achieve it.…\n\n…if some teachers go to other islands and other parts, such as the continent of Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, also to Japan, Asiatic Russia, Korea, French Indochina, Siam, Straits Settlements, India, Ceylon and Afghanistan, most great results will be forthcoming.\n\nIn the late 1930s Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, urged the Persian Bahá'ís to send a pioneer to Afghanistan and a young Persian educated in India, 'Ali-Muhammad Nabílí went sometime 1938-40 \"for the purposes of commerce.\" Other pioneers failed to remain during the period of the World Wars, however a Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1948 in Kabul.\n\nBy 1963, the Assembly of Kabul had lost assembly status. The Assembly of Kabul was next elected in 1969 and the first National Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1972. There were an estimated 400 Bahá'ís in mid 1970s, and 4 assemblies in 1973.\n\nFollowing the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 bringing with it the Soviet policy of religious oppression, the Bahá'ís, strictly adhering to their principle of obedience to legal government, abandoned its administration. Waves of refugees left in 1979 and some returned after 1990. The World Christian Encyclopedia records about 19,500 Afghan Bahá'ís in 1990 and 23,075 in 2000. A new assembly was elected in 1995 in Mazar-e Sharif.\n\nA number of Bahá'ís were arrested and imprisoned for fourteen months.\n\nIn 1998, when the Taliban authorities in Afghanistan arrested many Bahá'ís, many began to flee to Pakistan. Many Afghan Bahá'ís fled during the 2000-2001 period of Taliban rule becoming members of the Bahá'í Faith in Pakistan. Following the 2001 fall of the Taliban, many Afghan Bahá'ís have returned. In 2007 the US government estimated the Bahá'í population under the Taliban had fallen to about 400 - 300 of which were in Kabul.\n\nEstimates of the population of Bahá'ís have varied widely - the World Christian Encyclopedia records about 19,500 Afghan Bahá'ís in 1990 and 23,075 in 2000. However the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated some 15,300 Bahá'ís were again present in Afghanistan in 2005 Most recently a 2007 report from the US State Department indicated that there are only 400 Bahá'ís in Afghanistan, mostly concentrated in Kabul. According to the US State Department, in 2007 the General Directorate of Fatwas and Accounts under the Supreme Court issued a ruling on the status of the Bahá'í Faith, declaring it to be distinct from Islam and a form of blasphemy, affirmed that all Muslims who convert to the religion were apostates from Islam, declared all followers of the religion to be infidels and hazards the status of marriages of Bahá'ís. Although the Supreme Court ruling would impact Afghan Bahai'is, it would be unlikely to affect foreign-national Bahai'is. In 2008, 50 people from Afghanistan traveled to India for a regional conference held in New Delhi called for by the Universal House of Justice.\n\nMany Afghan Bahá'ís fled the country and went around the world where they reside today in these countries: Pakistan, Iran, India, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Russia, Kuwait, Dubai, Qatar, Germany, The Netherlands, United States and Canada.\n\nSome of the Bahá'ís who currently live outside Afghanistan established a website in 2000 to have an Internet presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22771221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22771221", "title": "Bahá'í views on sin", "text": "Bahá'í views on sin\n\nBahá'ís consider humans to be naturally good, fundamentally spiritual beings. Human beings were created because of God's immeasurable love for us. However, the Bahá'í teachings compare the human heart to a mirror, which, if turned away from the light of the sun (i.e. God), is incapable of receiving God's love. It is only by turning unto God that the spiritual advancement can be made. In this sense, \"sinning\" is to follow the inclinations of one's own lower nature, to turn the mirror of one's heart away from God.\n\nOne of the main hindrances to spiritual development is the Bahá'í concept of the \"insistent self\" which is a self-serving inclination within all people. Bahá'ís interpret this to be the true meaning of Satan, often referred to in the Bahá'í Writings as \"the Evil One\".\n\nWatch over yourselves, for the Evil One is lying in wait, ready to entrap you. Gird yourselves against his wicked devices, and, led by the light of the name of the All-Seeing God, make your escape from the darkness that surroundeth you. — Bahá'u'lláh \n\nThis lower nature in humans is symbolized as Satan — the evil ego within us, not an evil personality outside. — `Abdu'l-Bahá \n\nThe Bahá'í concept of God is both just and merciful. God is seen as being \"He Who forgiveth even the most grievous of sins\". Bahá'ís are meant to refrain from focussing on the sins of others, and are meant to have a \"sin-covering eye\". Bahá'ís are also forbidden to confess their sins to others in order to have their sins removed. Forgiveness is between a person and God alone, and is thus a very personal affair.\n\nShould anyone be afflicted by a sin, it behoveth him to repent thereof and return unto his Lord. He, verily, granteth forgiveness unto whomsoever He willeth, and none may question that which it pleaseth Him to ordain. He is, in truth, the Ever-Forgiving, the Almighty, the All-Praised. — Bahá'u'lláh \n\nBahá'u'lláh taught that one should bring one's self to account each day, and be constantly concerned with self-improvement. Sin is an inevitable stumbling block, but it should not be allowed to halt one's spiritual progress. One should ask for forgiveness from God alone and then try to develop oneself through acquisition of virtues and communion with God (through prayer, fasting, meditation and other spiritual practices). There are many Bahá'í prayers for forgiveness of oneself, one's parents, and even the deceased. The Bahá'í Faith teaches that pardon can be obtained even in the afterlife and that deeds done in the name of the departed or wealth left by the departed for charity can benefit and advance their souls in the afterlife.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith accepts the Biblical teaching that the sin against the Holy Spirit cannot be forgiven, in this world or the world to come.\n\nThe Prophets of God are manifestations for the lordly perfections - that is, the Holy Spirit is apparent in Them. If a soul remains far from the manifestation, he may yet be awakened; for he did not recognize the manifestation of the divine perfections. But if he loathe the divine perfections themselves - in other words, the Holy Spirit - it is evident that he is like a bat which hates the light. This detestation of the light has no remedy and cannot be forgiven - that is to say, it is impossible for him to come near unto God. This lamp is a lamp because of its light; without the light it would not be a lamp. Now if a soul has an aversion for the light of the lamp, he is, as it were, blind, and cannot comprehend the light; and blindness is the cause of everlasting banishment from God. — `Abdu'l-Bahá\n\nIn the end, only God can decide who is forgiven and who is not.\n\n"}
{"id": "47713915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47713915", "title": "Battle of the Lacus Curtius", "text": "Battle of the Lacus Curtius\n\nIn Roman mythology, the Battle of the Lacus Curtius was the final battle in the war between the Roman Kingdom and the Sabines following Rome's mass abduction of Sabine women to take as brides. It took place during the reign of Romulus, near the Lacus Curtius, future site of the Roman Forum. It concluded when the abducted Sabine women intervened and the two sides sued for peace.\n\nRome was founded on the Palatine Hill. The settlement flourished and their strength and size came to rival those of their neighbors. The city needed more marriageable women and feared their growth couldn't be sustained if the female population did not increase. Romulus appealed to the other cities in the region:\nWith the Roman people outraged at the response, Romulus announced a festival to be held in the city and invited the citizens of Caenina, Antemnae, Crustumerium, and Sabinia. Once the festivities were underway, Romulus' men abducted the daughters of the Sabines and the other visitors. Afterwards, hostilities broke out between them. Rome defeated three of their enemies, at which point the Sabines declared war.\n\nThe two sides spent a year preparing. During this time Rome improved its defenses and were reinforced with Albans soldiers sent by King Numitor and mercenaries under the command of the Romulus' friend and renowned commander Lucumo. After a final effort to resolve the matter peacefully, the Sabine army marched forth.\n\nThe Vestal Virgin Tarpeia, the daughter of the commander of the citadel in Rome Spurius Tarpeius, betrayed Rome to the Sabines, offering them entry into the city. Quoting Fabius and Cincius, Dionysius of Halicarnassus writes that Tatius tricked the daughter of the commander of the city's walled citadel to open the gates to his men by offering her what she thinks will be the gold bracelets they wear on their left arms, instead they crushed her to death when they heaped their shields on top of her as her reward. Lucius Piso claimed that she was motivated not by greed, but a plan to trick the Sabines and that she was killed only after they came to suspect her of treachery. Livy writes that the girl was simply bribed, but also cites the trickery account related by Dionysius.\n\nThe Sabine and Roman armies gathered at the Palatine and Capitoline Hills; the Sabines were commanded by Mettius Curtius and the Romans by Hostus Hostilius. The river had recently flooded and left a thick mud in the area,\n\nAfter several skirmishes and minor engagements, the armies fought two pitched battles featuring valor and losses to both sides.\nIn the second and final battle between them, the armies met in between the two hills they occupied. Romulus and Lucumo were successfully attacking from both wings, but were forced to disengage when the center of the Roman line broke in order to stop the Sabines' advance under their general Mettius Curtius. After being turned back, the Sabines made an orderly retreat; Mettius and Romulus engaged one another directly until Mettius fell, wounded. A marshy lake prevented his escape but he plunged into it and stymied his enemy's pursuit. Once Romulus turned to face the remaining Sabines, the Sabine general pulled himself out of the mire and safely returned to his camp.\n\nWhen Romulus was struck in the head with a stone, the tide reversed again as the soldiers lost heart without their commander. The army was in full-flight after a javelin felled Lucumo. Romulus recovered, and with the support of fresh reserves from within the city, the Romans regained the upper hand and the lines moved back against the Sabines. With the sun setting, the Sabines made an arduous retreat to the citadel and the Romans broke off their pursuit.\n\nIn Livy's account, the Romans assembled at the foot of the hill beneath the citadel, but the Sabines refused to emerge and engage them. Finally, in spite of their lack of the high ground, the frustrated Roman army attacked. Initially inspired by the heroics of their general Hostus Hostilius on the front line, the Roman line broke when he fell, Romulus makes a pledge to Jupiter that if he were to hold off the Sabine charge and restore the Roman's courage, he would build a new Temple to \"Jupiter Stator\" on the site. With a cry, Romulus led his army into the Sabines and routed them. The Sabine general Mettius was tossed in a swamp by his horse after it bolted.\n\nAfter the Sabines regrouped, the battle continued in the area between the two hills, but the Roman army had by then gained the upper hand. Suddenly, the abducted Sabine daughters rushed onto the battlefield and put themselves between the two armies. They implored both sides to stop the bloodshed and accept each other as family, as they then were. Ashamed, the leaders of the two peoples ended the fighting.\n\nIn his account of the Battle of the Lacus Curtius, Plutarch provides additional details, but the basic account is the same as that of Livy and Dionysius. He notes that when the women intervened, they not only end the battle, but bring food and water, and care for the injured. They also take the opportunity to introduce their husbands and their fathers. Henceforth, Sabine women have no duty but to spin wool for their husbands.\n\nAfter the battle, both sides decided to sign a peace treaty uniting the two kingdoms transferring administrative power to Rome. Citizens of Rome became known as Quirites after the town Cures. The Lacus Curtius was named after Sabine leader Mettius Curtius.\n"}
{"id": "278508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=278508", "title": "Black Madonna of Częstochowa", "text": "Black Madonna of Częstochowa\n\nThe Black Madonna of Częstochowa ( or , ), also known as Our Lady of Częstochowa, is a revered icon of the Virgin Mary housed at the Jasna Góra Monastery in Częstochowa, Poland. Several Pontiffs have recognised the venerated icon, beginning with Pope Clement XI who issued a Canonical Coronation to the image on 8 September 1717 via the Vatican Chapter.\n\nThe four-foot-high painting displays a traditional composition well known in the icons of Eastern Christians. The Virgin Mary is shown as the \"Hodegetria\" (\"One Who Shows the Way\"). In it the Virgin directs attention away from herself, gesturing with her right hand toward Jesus as the source of salvation. In turn, the child extends his right hand toward the viewer in blessing while holding a book of gospels in his left hand. The icon shows the Madonna in fleur-de-lis robes.\n\nThe origins of the icon and the date of its composition are still contested among scholars. One difficulty in dating the icon is due in part to its original image being painted over after being badly damaged by Hussite raiders in 1430. The wooden boards that backed the painting were broken and the canvas slashed. Medieval restorers unfamiliar with the encaustic method found that the paints they applied to the damaged areas \"simply sloughed off the image\" according to the medieval chronicler Risinius, and their solution was to erase the original image and to repaint it on the original panel. The original features of an Orthodox icon were softened; the nose was made more aquiline.\n\nThe icon of Our Lady of Częstochowa has been intimately associated with Poland for the past 600 years. Its history prior to its arrival in Poland is shrouded in numerous legends which trace the icon's origin to St. Luke who painted it on a cedar table top from the house of the Holy Family. The same legend holds that the painting was discovered in Jerusalem in 326 by St. Helena, who brought it back to Constantinople and presented it to her son, Constantine the Great.\n\nThe oldest documents from Jasna Góra state that the picture travelled from Constantinople via Belz. Eventually it came into the possession of Władysław Opolczyk, Duke of Opole, and adviser to Louis of Anjou, King of Poland and Hungary. Ukrainian sources state that earlier in its history it was brought to Belz with much ceremony and honors by King Lev I of Galicia and later taken by Władysław from the Castle of Belz, when the town was incorporated into the Polish kingdom. A popular story tells that in late August 1384, Ladislaus was passing Częstochowa with the picture when his horses refused to go on. He was advised in a dream to leave the icon at Jasna Gora.\n\nArt historians say that the original painting was a Byzantine icon created around the sixth or ninth century. They agree that Prince Władysław brought it to the monastery in the 14th century.\n\nSeveral Pontiffs have recognized the image, namely the following:\n\n\nIn August 1382 the hilltop parish church was transferred to the Paulites, a hermitic order from Hungary. The golden fleur-de-lis painted on the Virgin's blue veil parallel the heraldic \"azure, semée de lis, or\" of the French royal coat of arms and the most likely explanation for their presence is that the icon had been present in Hungary during the reign of either Charles I of Hungary and/or Louis the Great, the Hungarian kings of the Anjou dynasty, who probably had the fleur-de-lis of their family's coat of arms painted on the icon. This would suggest that the icon was probably originally brought to Jasna Gora by the Pauline monks from their founding monastery in Hungary.\nThe Black Madonna is said to have miraculously saved the monastery of Jasna Góra (English: Bright Mount) from a Swedish invasion. The Siege of Jasna Góra took place in the winter of 1655 during the Second Northern War, as the Swedish invasion of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth is known. The Swedes were attempting to capture the Jasna Góra monastery in Częstochowa. Seventy monks and 180 local volunteers, mostly from the szlachta (Polish nobility), held off 4,000 Swedes for 40 days, saved their sacred icon and, according to some accounts, turned the course of the war. This event led King John II Casimir Vasa to \"crown\" Our Lady of Częstochowa (\"the Black Madonna\") as Queen and Protector of Poland in the cathedral of Lwów on April 1, 1652. Prior to this event, several royal nobilities have offered crowns to the image throughout the years, replacing its iron sheet crown by gold and several jewels. In later years, various jewels were interchanged and repositioned around the image to preserve the aesthetic of the icon with the replacement of stolen crowns.\n\nThe legend concerning the two scars on the Black Madonna's right cheek is that the Hussites stormed the Pauline monastery in 1430, plundering the sanctuary. Among the items stolen was the icon. After putting it in their wagon, the Hussites tried to get away but their horses refused to move. They threw the portrait down to the ground and one of the plunderers drew his sword upon the image and inflicted two deep strikes. When the robber tried to inflict a third strike, he fell to the ground and writhed in agony until his death. Despite past attempts to repair these scars, they had difficulty in covering up those slashes as the painting was done with tempera infused with diluted wax.\n\nCzęstochowa is regarded as the most popular shrine in Poland, with many Polish Catholics making a pilgrimage there every year. A pilgrimage has left Warsaw every August 6 since 1711 for the nine-day, 140-mile trek. Elderly pilgrims recall stealing through the dark countryside at great personal risk during the German Nazi occupation. Pope John Paul II secretly visited as a student pilgrim during World War II.\n\nThe feast day of Our Lady of Częstochowa is celebrated on August 26.\n\nThe American National Shrine of Our Lady of Czestochowa is located in Doylestown, Pennsylvania.\n\nOrthodox Christians are also aware of the Black Madonna of Częstochowa and venerate her. The icon is popular in Ukraine and Belarus as former parts of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and even in Russia. Moreover, this icon has an Orthodox origin, but Polish historians have found out it has been repainted at least twice and there is almost nothing left of the previous Byzantine manner of painting. Ukrainians have a special devotion for the Madonna of Częstochowa. The icon is often mentioned in Ukrainian folk songs from the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23595949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23595949", "title": "Blasphemy law in Afghanistan", "text": "Blasphemy law in Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan uses Sharia as its justification for punishing blasphemy. The punishments are among the harshest in the world. Afghanistan uses its law against blasphemy to persecute religious minorities, dissenters, academics, and journalists.\n\nThe Constitution of Afghanistan, ratified in January 2004, makes Islam the state religion. The President and the Vice-Presidents must be Muslim. The great majority of Afghanistan's citizens are Sunni who follow the Hanafi school of jurisprudence.\n\nAfghanistan's Penal Code of 1976 addresses \"Crimes Against Religions\" but leaves the issue of blasphemy to Sharia. Sharia permits the authorities to treat blasphemy as a capital crime. The authorities can punish blasphemy with death if the blasphemy is committed by a male of sound mind over age 18 or by a female of sound mind over age 16. Anyone accused of blasphemy has three days to recant. If an accused does not recant, death by hanging may follow.\n\nWritings considered anti-Islamic are prohibited under a vaguely worded media law which came into effect in March 2004. The law stipulates that journalists can be legally detained only with the approval of a seventeen-member commission of government officials and journalists. The authorities detained journalist Ali Mohaqiq Nasab in 2005 without regard for the media law.\n\nIn May 2007, the General Directorate of Fatawa and Accounts under the Afghan Supreme Court, which provides guidance on ambiguous religious issues not addressed in the Constitution or other laws, issued a ruling on the status of the Bahá'í. The ruling said \"Bahaism\" was distinct from Islam and a form of blasphemy. The ruling also declared all Muslims who convert to the Bahá'í Faith are apostates, and all followers of the religion are infidels. See Bahá'í Faith in Afghanistan and Apostasy in Islam.\n\nIn early November 2007, authorities arrested and detained Ghaus (also Ghaws) Zalmai for publishing an unofficial translation of the Quran in the Dari language. Parliament prohibited Zalmai from leaving the country. In 2009, a court sentenced Zalmai to twenty years in prison for blasphemy. Malawi Mushtaq Ahmad, who sanctioned the translation, was arrested in June 2008.\nOn 27 October 2007, police arrested Sayed Pervez Kambaksh, a student at Balkh University and a journalist for \"Jahan-e-Naw\" (\"New World\"), a daily, after he allegedly distributed writing posted on the Internet by Arash Bikhoda (Arash the atheist). Bikhoda's writing criticizes the treatment of women in Islamic societies. On 22 January 2008, a court sentenced Kambaksh to death for \"blasphemy and distribution of texts defamatory of Islam.\" The court relied on a confession which Kambaksh denounced as a product of torture. In October 2008, the Court of Appeals in Kabul upheld the conviction but commuted the sentence to imprisonment for twenty years.\n\nIn October 2005, Ali Mohaqiq Nasab, a journalist and an editor of a women's rights magazine, was sentenced by a tribunal to two years in prison for blasphemy because he questioned the harsh punishments imposed on women under Sharia, and because he said conversion from Islam should not be a crime. Nasab was released in December 2005 after his sentence was reduced on appeal.\n\nIn August 2003, the Afghan Supreme Court upheld death sentences for journalists Sayeed Mahdawi and Ali Reza Payam. Afghan authorities accused the journalists of blasphemy for saying the Islam practiced in Afghanistan was reactionary, for criticizing the political use of the religion by conservative leaders, and for asking: \"If Islam is the last and the most complete of the revealed religions, why are the Muslim countries lagging behind the modern world?\" The journalists went into hiding before the sentences were pronounced.\n\nIn 2003, two editors of the weekly \"Aftab\" were jailed for a week on blasphemy charges for publishing a controversial series of articles condemning crimes committed by senior Afghan leaders in the name of Islam. The two editors were later cleared of the charges, but they were forced to leave Afghanistan because of threats against their lives.\n"}
{"id": "27310655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27310655", "title": "Cardcaptor Sakura", "text": "Cardcaptor Sakura\n\n, abbreviated as CCS and also known as Cardcaptors, is a Japanese \"shōjo\" manga series written and illustrated by the manga group Clamp. The manga was originally serialized in \"Nakayoshi\" from May 1996 to June 2000, and published in 12 \"tankōbon\" volumes by Kodansha from November 1996 to July 2000. The story focuses on Sakura Kinomoto, an elementary school student who discovers magical powers after accidentally freeing a set of magical cards; she must retrieve the cards to prevent catastrophe. A sequel by Clamp, \",\" focusing on Sakura in junior high school, began serialization in \"Nakayoshi\" in 2016.\n\nThe series was adapted into a 70-episode anime television series by Madhouse that aired on Japan's satellite television channel NHK BS2 from April 1998 to March 2000. Additional media include anime films, video games, art books, picture books, and film comics. Tokyopop released the manga in English in North America from March 2000 to August 2003. After Tokyopop's license expired, Dark Horse Manga released the series in omnibus editions from October 2010 to September 2012.\n\nNelvana licensed the TV series and first film for North America as \"Cardcaptors\", which first aired on Kids' WB from June 2000 to December 2001. All 70 episodes were dubbed; while other English-speaking territories received the full run, the version aired on American television was heavily edited into 39 episodes. \"Cardcaptors\" also aired on Cartoon Network, Teletoon and Nickelodeon. The TV series and films were sub-licensed by Geneon, which released them unedited with English subtitles. The TV series was also released by Madman Entertainment in Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\"Cardcaptor Sakura\" has received critical acclaim. Critics praised the manga for its creativity and described it as a quintessential \"shōjo\" manga, as well as a critical work for manga in general. The manga series was awarded the Seiun Award for Best Manga in 2001. The television series was praised for transcending its target audience of young children and being enjoyable to older viewers, and for its artwork, humor, and animation; it won the Animage Grand Prix award for Best Anime in 1999. The American edit of \"Cardcaptors\", however, was criticized for removing elements essential to the plot.\n\n\"Cardcaptor Sakura\" takes place in the fictional Japanese city of Tomoeda which is somewhere near Tokyo. Ten-year-old Sakura Kinomoto accidentally releases a set of magical cards known as Clow Cards from a book in her basement created and named after the sorcerer Clow Reed. Each card has its own unique ability and can assume an alternate form when activated. The guardian of the cards, Cerberus, emerges from the book and chooses Sakura to retrieve the missing cards. As she finds each card, she battles its magical personification and defeats it by sealing it away. Cerberus acts as her guide, while her best friend and second cousin, Tomoyo Daidouji films her exploits and provides her with battle costumes. Sakura's older brother Toya Kinomoto watches over her, while pretending that he is unaware of what is going on.\n\nSyaoran Li, a boy Sakura's age and descendant of Clow Reed, arrives from Hong Kong to recapture the cards himself. While initially antagonistic, he comes to respect Sakura and begins aiding her to capture the cards. Once Sakura captures all of the cards, she is tested by Yue, the cards' second guardian, to determine if she is worthy of becoming the cards' true master; Yue is also the true form of Yukito Tsukishiro, Toya's best friend. Aided by her school teacher Kaho Mizuki, Sakura passes the test and becomes the new master of the Clow Cards.\n\nAfterwards, Eriol Hiiragizawa, a transfer student from England, arrives in Tomoeda and begins causing disturbances with two guardian-like creatures, Spinel Sun and Ruby Moon. Sakura is suddenly unable to use the Clow Cards and transforms her wand, beginning the process of evolving the cards into Sakura Cards as Eriol causes strange occurrences that forces her to use and thus transform certain cards. Once all the cards have been transformed, Eriol tells Sakura that he aided her in converting the cards so they would not lose their magic powers. Syaoran later confesses his love to Sakura, who comes to realize she also loves him. \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" concludes with Syaoran returning to Hong Kong with a promise to return. Two years later, Syaoran moves back to Tomoeda permanently.\n\nThe plot of the anime series is extended, featuring 52 Clow Cards from the manga's original 19, and certain scenes are stretched and delayed, such as Cerberus' true form not being revealed until just before Yue's appearance. Sakura creates a 53rd card, Hope, a talent she is not shown to have in the manga. Some of the circumstances around the capturing of the cards is changed, such as Syaoran capturing several cards himself and being tested by Yue in the Final Judgment. Syaoran's cousin and fiancée Meiling Li is introduced in the anime, who positions herself as a romantic rival for Sakura later in the series and also a friend until she returns to Hong Kong. The TV series leaves the relationship between Sakura and Syaoran unresolved, but Sakura confesses her love to Syaoran at the end of the second anime film. In the OVA that bridges the stories of the original series and the \"Clear Card\" anime, Syaoran returns to Tomoeda two years later, just like in the manga.\n\n\"Cardcaptor Sakura\" was first conceived shortly before the conclusion of Clamp's \"Magic Knight Rayearth\", which was serialized in \"Nakayoshi\". Clamp's head editor Yamonouchi asked them to do another series in \"Nakayoshi\", and Clamp decided to make a \"\"Nakayoshi\"-esque\" series, as opposed to \"Rayearth\", which Clamp described as unlike anything they had done before. Head Clamp writer Nanase Ohkawa's first impulse was to create a magical girl series, despite not being well-versed in the genre. Ohkawa wanted the heroine Sakura to be in the same age group as the majority of \"Nakayoshi\"s readers so that fans could relate to her. Due to it being different from how Clamp normally conceived characters, Ohkawa designed the other characters such as Tomoyo and Cerberus to be more like Clamp's previous creations. Once Ohkawa had enough information on the characters, she had the three artists in Clamp—Mokona, Tsubaki Nekoi and Satsuki Igarashi—design them based on her descriptions. When designing Cerberus, Ohkawa wanted a mascot-type companion for Sakura, but Nekoi tried various forms, including dogs and squirrels, before designing the final version. Syaoran and Toya were conceived to be a common type of character featured in Clamp's works.\n\nVarious other titles were suggested for the series such as \"Cardcaster Sakura\" and \"Card Character Sakura\" before Nekoi suggested \"Cardcaptor Sakura\". While Ohkawa planned out \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" from beginning to end, she never consulted the plot with the other members, instead giving them the script one chapter at a time. Mokona initially drew Tomoyo so it would look like she was in love with Toya, which led to her surprise when she received the script for the chapter which reveals Tomoyo loves Sakura. The story was planned to have the theme of \"if you try your best, it'll work out\", but Ohkawa did not start out with Sakura's \"It'll definitely be okay\" mindset. Ohkawa wanted to write a story that \"minorities would feel comfortable with,\" referring to the same-sex and taboo relationships featured in the manga. The series' main theme is expressed through Sakura, a main character designed to be open-minded about different family structures and kinds of love. Ohkawa addressed the relationships featured in the series by using Tomoyo and Sakura as an example. She explained that the reason Tomoyo and Sakura did not end up together was not because Tomoyo is a girl, but rather because Sakura did not love Tomoyo in a romantic way.\n\nThe central theme of \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" is love and human relationships. Throughout the series, many forms of love are showcased, including \"sibling love, childhood crushes, unrequited love, [and] true love.\" At times, Clamp even ignores the Clow Cards for several chapters to focus more on the relationships of Sakura and those around her. Each of these relationships are presented as is, with Clamp carefully avoiding passing judgment on the correctness of the relationships. In particular, the romantic relationship between elementary student Rika Sasaki and her teacher Yoshiyuki Terada is presented in such a way that it can be seen as a sweet and innocent tale of \"wish fulfillment\", or if examined more seriously, as a mildly disturbing story of pedophilic love.\n\nThe artists, especially Mokona, were told by Ohkawa to use thin lines and to try to express things through curved lines as opposed to straight lines. The style of artwork was decided at the beginning to unify the world view of \"Cardcaptor Sakura\". Ohkawa wanted the series to have a \"soft, cute-like\" feel, so she asked the artists to not use a lot of ink and to make the pages light. For the multitude of flower imagery used in the manga, Nekoi looked through various books to find appropriate flowers, and tried to avoid using the same flower more than once in one chapter. Igarashi remarked that they \"never had to draw so many flowers for one series,\" but they made a point to not use roses. Clamp wanted to incorporate transformation scenes into \"Cardcaptor Sakura\", but because many magical girl manga have the girls wearing the same outfit, Clamp wanted Sakura to wear different costumes. Clamp felt that \"it's pretty sad for a girl to wear the same outfit all the time.\"\n\n\"Cardcaptor Sakura\" began as a manga series written and illustrated by the manga artist group Clamp. It was serialized in the monthly \"shōjo\" (aimed at young girls) manga magazine \"Nakayoshi\" from the May 1996 to June 2000 issue. The individual chapters were collected and published in 12 \"tankōbon\" volumes by Kodansha from November 1996 to July 2000. Kodansha released the first six volumes in bilingual editions that included both Japanese and English from May 2000 to July 2001. The bilingual volumes were part of an experimental line for helping Japanese children learn English. Kodansha stopped releasing the bilingual editions after the series was licensed in English for distribution in North America by Tokyopop.\n\nTokyopop released the volumes of \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" from March 2000 to August 2003. Tokyopop initially released the first six volumes with the book \"flipped\" from the original Japanese orientation, in which the book is read from right-to-left, to the Western format with text oriented from left-to-right. These volumes were later re-released with the original orientation in two box sets, each containing three volumes. Volumes seven through twelve were released in the original orientation with the subtitle \"Master of the Clow\". Madman Entertainment used Tokyopop's English translation to release the series in Australia and New Zealand. Dark Horse Manga published an English edition of the series in four omnibus volumes containing three of the original volumes each from October 2010 and September 2012. The manga series is licensed for additional regional language releases by Pika Édition in France, Star Comics in Italy, Egmont Manga & Anime in Germany, Editora JBC in Brazil, Ever Glory Publishing in Taiwan, Ediciones Glénat in Spain, Editorial Ivrea in Argentina, and Editorial Toukan and later Editorial Kamite in Mexico.\n\nA 70-episode anime television series adaptation produced by the animation studio Madhouse aired in Japan on the NHK television network spread over three seasons. The first season, consisting of 35 episodes, aired between April 7 and December 29, 1998. The second season, with 11 episodes, aired between April 6 and June 22, 1999. The third season, containing 24 episodes, aired between September 7, 1999 and March 21, 2000. Directed by Morio Asaka, Clamp was fully involved in the project, with head writer Nanase Ohkawa writing and composing the screenplay and Mokona overseeing the costumes and card designs. The series was later released by Bandai Visual to 18 VHS, LD and DVD compilation volumes from September 1998 to May 2000. Two Blu-ray Disc box set volumes were released by Geneon in 2009. An upgraded 4K remaster was released in December 2017 as an 11-disc set in both DVD and Blu-ray Disc box sets.\n\nNelvana licensed \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" in North America, dubbed the series into English with Ocean Studios featuring Carly McKillip as Sakura, and released it under the name \"Cardcaptors\". This version was heavily edited from the original Japanese version. The initial version of the dub covered all 70 episodes, although character names were changed, some Japanese text was changed to English, and controversial subjects such as same-sex relationships were edited out. The musical score was completely replaced with new music and some of the sound effects were replaced when they could not be separated into separate tracks, although the original opening and ending themes were dubbed into English. This version aired in Australia on Network Ten and Cartoon Network, in Ireland on RTÉ2, in the UK on CiTV and Nickelodeon, and in Canada on Teletoon (which also aired the episodes with a French dub). An alternative English dub of the series was produced by Omni Productions to air on Animax Asia and it has been shown entirely unedited and uncut making it very faithfully closer to the original Japanese version, which it broadcast on its English-language networks in Southeast Asia and South Asia.\n\n\"Cardcaptors\" first aired in the United States on Kids' WB between June 17, 2000 and December 14, 2001. The version that aired on Kids' WB was an alternate version of the Nelvana dub that was heavily edited even further with episodes re-ordered and some left out completely. The editing to the original Nelvana dub was done to refocus the series to be more action oriented for the appeal of male viewers, as they were seen as the largest audience of animation at the time. The first episode aired in Kids' WB's version was \"Sakura's Rival\", the eighth episode of the series, having removed episodes focusing on Sakura and to have the show start with Syaoran's arrival. The series ran for 39 episodes, changing the original episode order but finishing with the show's actual final episode. Rather than using the English versions of the original opening and ending themes like in Australia, the North American runs of the series used a new opening theme produced for the dub.\n\nPioneer Entertainment released the dubbed \"Cardcaptors\" episodes to nine VHS and DVD compilation volumes from November 2000 to July 2002. They also released the unedited \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" series with the original Japanese audio tracks and English subtitles, to 18 DVDs from November 2000 to November 2003; the first 11 volumes were also released in VHS. The \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" TV series DVDs went out-of-print at the end of 2006 when the license expired. NIS America has licensed the \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" TV series and re-released the entire series with Japanese and an unedited English audio track (Animax Asia's dub) on DVD and Blu-ray on August 5, 2014.\n\nMadman Entertainment licensed the original \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" episodes in its uncut form with Japanese audio and English subtitles in Australia and New Zealand, and later released the series in two DVD box collections, one consisting of season one and the other consisting of seasons two and three. Each DVD box set contained the textless openings and endings of the series; the second DVD box set also contained an exclusive interview with Sakura Tange, Sakura Kinomoto's Japanese voice actress. The first DVD box collection was released in September 2012, and the second DVD box collection was released in November 2012.\n\nMadhouse produced two, 82-minute anime films as an extension to the anime television series. The first, \"Cardcaptor Sakura: The Movie\", was released on August 21, 1999. Set between the first and second seasons of the TV series, the film shows Sakura and her friends going to Hong Kong where they encounter a vengeful spirit who was hurt by Clow Reed in the past. It was released to VHS, LD and DVD in Japan by Bandai Visual in February 2000. Nelvana released an English dubbed version of the film, retaining the same name and story changes as its main \"Cardcaptors\" dub, although it was dubbed with no visual edits and was released in cut and uncut versions. As with the TV series, Pioneer Entertainment also released the film with the original Japanese audio and English subtitles, and also released a bilingual DVD containing both audio tracks. Both the edited and unedited versions were released on VHS and DVD in March 2002. Discotek Media released the first film on Blu-ray Disc and DVD on September 30, 2014 in North America.\n\nThe second film, \"Cardcaptor Sakura Movie 2: The Sealed Card\", was released in Japan on July 15, 2000. It provided a conclusion to the TV series, in which Syaoran returns to Tokyo in hopes of getting Sakura's answer to his love confession, but her own confession is interrupted by the appearance of a 53rd Clow Card. It was released to LD (as a limited edition) and DVD in January 2001, and to VHS in July 2001. It was released in North America to DVD by Pioneer in November 2003 and featured an English dub by Bang Zoom! Entertainment instead of Nelvana and Ocean Studios, now with Kari Wahlgren as Sakura, and this time retaining the original character names and the content unedited and uncut. The films as released by Pioneer (later renamed Geneon) remained in print in North America until late 2007. A bonus short film titled \"Leave it to Kero!\" was played with the theatrical screening of the second film.\n\nAs a preview to the anime series, Kodansha released a \"tankōbon\"-sized CD volume titled \"CD Comic Cardcaptor Sakura\" in August 1997 containing two character songs sung by the voice actors of Sakura and Tomoyo and drama tracks. Two drama CDs were released for the series. The first, \"Sakura to Okaa-san no Organ\", was released in July 1998 featuring a script written by Clamp author Nanase Ohkawa. It depicts Sakura having a dream about her mother playing an organ and choosing to write about her the following day for a school project. The second CD, \"Sweet Valentine Stories\", was released in February 1999 and depicts a single day in the life of the girls in Sakura's class, including Sakura herself. Four original soundtrack CD albums were released for the anime television series from July 1998 to March 2000. The soundtracks included instrumental background music and the vocal theme songs. Two soundtracks were produced for the films: the first film's soundtrack was released in August 1999, followed by the second film's soundtrack in August 2000.\n\nNine theme song singles were released: six for the TV series and three for the films. The three opening theme song singles for the TV series are \"Catch You Catch Me\" by Gumi released in April 1998, \"Tobira o Akete\" by Anza released in April 1999, and \"Platinum\" by Maaya Sakamoto released in October 1999. The three ending theme song singles for the TV series are \"Groovy!\" by Kohmi Hirose released in September 1998, \"Honey\" by Chihiro released in May 1999, and \"Fruits Candy\" by Megumi Kojima released in November 1999. The two ending theme song singles for the films are \"Tōi Kono Machi de\" by Naomi Kaitani released in August 1999 for the first film, and \"Ashita e no Melody\" by Chaka released in July 2000 for the second film. The theme song single for the anime short \"Leave It To Kero!\" shown with the second film, \"Okashi no Uta\", was released in July 2000.\n\nSix character song singles sung by the voice actors of Sakura, Toya, Cerberus, Tomoyo, Yukito and Syaoran released in June 1998; each single also contained a short drama track. A character song album titled \"Cardcaptor Sakura Character Songbook\" was released in January 1999 containing tracks from the previously released character song singles as well as new tracks sung by the various voice actors. An album titled \"Tomoeda Elementary Choir Club Christmas Concert\", released in December 1999, contains seven tracks by a children's choir, including five where they are joined by Junko Iwao, the voice actress for Tomoyo. A four-CD compilation set, \"Complete Vocal Collection\", was released in February 2001 compiling the series' theme songs, tracks from the character song singles, remixes of previously released songs, and new music. An album containing the theme songs from the TV series and films titled \"Cardcaptor Sakura Theme Song Collection\" was released in December 2001. Victor Entertainment released the albums and singles for \"Cardcaptor Sakura\". An original soundtrack for \"Cardcaptors\" titled \"Cardcaptors: Songs from the Hit TV Series\" was released in September 2001 by Rhino Entertainment.\n\nTen video games have been produced based on the series and released on a variety of video game and handheld consoles. They feature various genres, such as adventure and role-playing video games.\n\nKodansha published three art books for the manga series and three art books from for the anime television series featuring art by character designer Kumiko Takahashi. The three books for the manga titled \"Cardcaptor Sakura Illustration Collection\" were released from July 1998 to December 2000. The three for the TV series titled \"Cheerio!\" were released from April 1999 to September 2000. A set of the 52 Clow Cards featured in the TV series was released in August 1999 and a \"Clow Card Fortune Book\", which contains information on how to use the Clow Card replica set as tarot cards, was released in March 2000.\n\nA fan book for the manga titled \"Cardcaptor Sakura Memorial Book\" was published on February 27, 2001 containing various illustrations from the series, as well as information on branded merchandise based on the series and interviews. Four fan books under the title \"Complete Book\", were released for the TV series and Films. For the TV series, two fan books labeled and were released in July 1999 and June 2000 respectively Each of the two films received a fan book and were released in October 1999 and October 2000 respectively. A poster box containing several posters and a T-shirt was released on August 22, 2001.\n\nTen volumes of a film comic sharing the same name as the manga and anime series were published from August 1998 to November 2000 covering the first two anime seasons, though some episodes were skipped. Three more were published under the subtitle, \"Sakura Card-hen\" from March 2001 to February 2002 covering up to episode 59, though again some episodes were skipped. Four picture books were released for the TV series from September 1998 to November 2000. Four sticker books were released for the TV series from August 1999 to March 2004.\n\nIn February 2018, three \"Cardcaptor Sakura\"-themed cafes opened in Tokyo, Osaka and Sapporo. The restaurants feature decorations of artwork from the series, and serve menu items connected to \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" characters or items.\n\nThe manga has over 17 million copies in print as of April 2018. \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" was popular with Japanese readers, ranking among the top five sellers during its release. The manga series was awarded the Seiun Award for Best Manga in 2001. Shaenon Garrity of \"The Comics Journal\" described the series as a quintessential \"shōjo\" manga, which is praised for its mature direction in the second half. \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" has been described as a \"critical work\" of manga by Christopher Butcher of Comics212. In a review by Lisa Anderson of Manga Life, the subplots in the series related to the interactions between characters were noted to be of special interest. Anderson praised how the manga, while at the onset begins with a costumed Sakura chasing after a Clow Card, takes a \"rather big leap in another direction\" when focusing on the characters. The manga is further lauded for its depth. Anime News Network (ANN) reviewer Robert Nguyen felt \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" is an \"atypical \"shōjo\"\" manga, which puts an \"emphasis on the emotions of the character.\"\n\nIn \"\", Mason Templar states that the series is not \"just one of the best kids' manga in translation, it's one of the very best manga available in English, period.\" He praises Clamp for their creativity and shrewd business sense, in being able to create a series that \"clearly has merchandising in line\" and an \"utterly forgettable premise\" into a story that is \"brimming with warmth and joy and wonder\" and is \"much more than the sum of its parts.\" The manga is cited as being cute by critics, and in some cases too cute; however, Anderson stated that \"much like \"Magic Knight Rayearth\", even a cute story will have its depth and drama.\" The artwork of the manga is praised for being detailed and having \"beautifully drawn pictures of the Clow Cards themselves.\" The cards are described as having \"an artful blend of magical fantasy and reality.\"\n\nThe anime adaptation was popular with viewers in Japan, despite having a timeslot that normally has low viewership. The \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" anime adaptation won the Animage Grand Prix award for best anime in 1999. In May 2000, volumes 8 and 17 of the anime LD release were among the top selling titles, with volume 17 being in first place. The 18th DVD volume was the eighth best selling anime DVD in Japan in June 2000. \"Animerica\" contributor Kevin Lew felt the series had a \"sophisticated design sense\" that allowed the series to transcend its target audience of young children and be enjoyable to older viewers as well. Fellow contributor Takashi Oshiguichi found the character Sakura to be appealing and praised the series art work. He felt that while it was \"very calculated\" to attract male readers, the series was attractive to fans due to Clamp's \"unique entertainment style\" that incorporates \"perfectly time[d] appearances of \"fascinating villains\" and the unusual element of having the main character change costume for every capture. The magazine's Winnie Chow felt the series' animation was \"far above average for a TV series\", and compliments Sakura's magic-casting scenes for being nearly unique due to the regular costume changes.\n\nZac Bertschy of ANN praised \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" for taking an \"incredibly stale and repetitive\" magical girl genre and \"providing something fun, clever, beautifully animated, touching and exciting all at once;\" Bertschy goes on to call the series \"the best magical girl show ever produced.\" The animation was described as being \"incredibly fluid\" with the character designs \"maintain[ing] a consistent and impressive level of detail, even during action scenes.\" The series has been described as formulaic, but this is not said to detract from the show's enjoyment. While \"Cardcaptor Sakura\" is normally intended for an audience of young girls, the anime is lauded for containing \"elements that can be enjoyed by anyone, regardless of age or gender, providing they are open-minded enough.\" In 2001, the anime ranked 46th on \"Wizard's Anime Magazine\"s \"Top 50 Anime released in North America\" ranking.\n\nThe Kids' WB version of the \"Cardcaptors\" dub was panned by critics. Jake Godek of THEM Anime called it \"the worst thing that has ever happened to anime that had a good Japanese name,\" with the dubbing being \"one of the worst if not the worst dubbing done for a program.\" He also criticized the editing, saying that it had \"demolished the plot\" and noting that it cut out vital character backgrounds needed in order to understand the show. Adam Arnold of Animefringe, reviewing the first \"Cardcaptors\" DVD, said it was \"nothing more than an attempt to dilute a fan favorite anime,\" with the dubbed voices described as \"not up-to-par with the originals.\" The ordering of the episodes on the DVD was also criticized, noting that starting with episode eight meant that the cast are \"left without their backgrounds fleshed out.\" However, he also approved of the episode stories being left intact, and praised the voices of Carly McKillip as Sakura Avalon and Rhys Huber as Syaoran Li, stating that they were \"only voices that really shine above the rest.\"\n\nIn January 2002, the restaurant chain Taco Bell began a month-long promotion in which four \"Cardcaptors\" toys were available in their kids' meals and the company expected to distribute up to 7 million of the toys during the month. The \"conservative Christian political orientation\" American Family Association complained about the promotion as the organization felt the Clow Cards in the series were too similar to tarot cards and Eastern mythology. However, the organization's complaints did not begin until the promotion was already scheduled to end, so it is unsure whether the complaints had any actual effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "295855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295855", "title": "Catechism", "text": "Catechism\n\nA catechism (; from , \"to teach orally\") is a summary or exposition of doctrine and serves as a learning introduction to the Sacraments traditionally used in catechesis, or Christian religious teaching of children and adult converts. Catechisms are doctrinal manuals – often in the form of questions followed by answers to be memorised – a format that has been used in non-religious or secular contexts as well. The term \"catechumen\" refers to the designated recipient of the catechetical work or instruction. In the Catholic Church, catechumens are those who are preparing to receive the Sacrament of Baptism. Traditionally, they would be placed separately during Holy Mass from those who had been baptized, and would be dismissed from the liturgical assembly before the Profession of Faith (Creed) and General Intercessions (Prayers of the Faithful).\n\nCatecheticals are characteristic of Western Christianity but are also present in Eastern Orthodox Christianity. In 1973, \"The Common Catechism\", the first joint catechism of Catholics and Protestants, was published by theologians of the major Western Christian traditions, as a result of extensive ecumenical dialogue.\n\nBefore the Protestant Reformation, Christian catechesis took the form of instruction in and memorization of the Apostles' Creed, Lord's Prayer, and basic knowledge of the sacraments. The word \"catechism\" for a manual for this instruction appeared in the Late Middle Ages. The use of a question and answer format was popularized by Martin Luther in his 1529 Small Catechism. He wanted the catechumen to understand what he was learning, so the Decalogue, Lord's Prayer, and Apostles' Creed were broken up into small sections, with the question \"What does this mean\" following each portion. The format calls upon two parties to participate, a master and a student (traditionally termed a \"scholar\"), or a parent and a child. The Westminster Shorter Catechism (1647) is an example:\n\nQ. What is the chief end of man?<br>\nA. To glorify God and enjoy Him forever!<br>\n<br>\nQ. What rule hath God given to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy Him?<br>\nA. The word of God which is contained in the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments is the only rule to direct us how we may glorify and enjoy him.\n\nThe catechism's question-and-answer format, with a view toward the instruction of children, was a form adopted by the various Protestant confessions almost from the beginning of the Reformation.\n\nAmong the first projects of the Reformation was the production of catechisms self-consciously modelled after the older traditions of Cyril of Jerusalem and Augustine. These catechisms showed special admiration for Chrysostom's view of the family as a \"little church\", and placed strong responsibility on every father to teach his children, in order to prevent them from coming to baptism or the Lord's table ignorant of the doctrine under which they are expected to live as Christians.\n\nLuther's Large Catechism (1529) typifies the emphasis which the churches of the Augsburg Confession placed on the importance of knowledge and understanding of the articles of the Christian faith. Primarily intended as instruction to teachers, especially to parents, the catechism consists of a series of exhortations on the importance of each topic of the catechism. It is meant for those who have the capacity to understand, and is meant to be memorized and then repeatedly reviewed so that the Small Catechism could be taught with understanding. For example, the author stipulates in the preface:\n\nLuther adds:\nLuther's Small Catechism, in contrast, is written to accommodate the understanding of a child or an uneducated person. It begins:\n\nCalvin's 1545 preface to the Genevan catechism begins with an acknowledgement that the several traditions and cultures which were joined in the Reformed movement would produce their own form of instruction in each place. While Calvin argues that no effort should be expended on preventing this, he adds:\n\nThe scandal of diverse instruction is that it produces diverse baptisms and diverse communions, and diverse faith. However, forms may vary without introducing substantial differences, according to the Reformed view of doctrine.\n\nJohn Calvin produced a catechism while at Geneva (1541), which underwent two major revisions (1545 and 1560). Calvin's aim in writing the catechism of 1545 was to set a basic pattern of doctrine, meant to be imitated by other catechists, which would not affirm local distinctions or dwell on controversial issues, but would serve as a pattern for what was expected to be taught by Christian fathers and other teachers of children in the church. The catechism is organized on the topics of faith, law, prayer and sacraments.\n\nAfter Protestantism entered into the Palatinate, in 1546 the controversy between Lutherans and Calvinists broke out, and especially while the region was under the elector Otto Heinrich (1556–1559), this conflict in Saxony, particularly in Heidelberg, became increasingly bitter and turned violent.\n\nWhen Frederick III, Elector Palatine came into power in 1559 he put his authority behind the Calvinistic view on the Lord's Supper, which denied the local presence of the body of Jesus Christ in the elements of the sacrament. He turned Sapienz College into a school of divinity, and in 1562 he placed over it a pupil and friend of Luther's colleague, Philipp Melanchthon, named Zacharias Ursinus. In an attempt to resolve the religious disputes in his domain, Frederick called upon Ursinus and his colleague Caspar Olevianus (preacher to Frederick's court) to produce a catechism. The two collaborators referred to existing catechetical literature, and especially relied on the catechisms of Calvin and of John Lasco. To prepare the catechism, they adopted the method of sketching drafts independently, and then bringing together the work to combine their efforts. \"The final preparation was the work of both theologians, with the constant co-operation of Frederick III. Ursinus has always been regarded as the principal author, as he was afterwards the chief defender and interpreter of the Catechism; still, it would appear that the nervous German style, the division into three parts (as distinguished from the five parts in the Catechism of Calvin and the previous draft of Ursinus), and the genial warmth and unction of the whole work, are chiefly due to Olevianus.\" (Schaff, in. Am. Presb. Rev. July 1863, p. 379). The structure of the Heidelberg Catechism is spelled out in the second question; and the three-part structure seen there is based on the belief that the single work of salvation brings forward the three persons of the Trinity in turn, to make God fully and intimately known by his work of salvation, referring to the Apostles' Creed as an epitome of Christian faith. Assurance of salvation is the unifying theme throughout this catechism: assurance obtained by the work of Christ, applied through the sacraments, and resulting in grateful obedience to the commandments and persistence in prayer.\n\nThe Heidelberg Catechism is the most widely used of the Catechisms of the Reformed churches.\n\nTogether with the Westminster Confession of Faith (1647), the Westminster Assembly also produced two catechisms, a Larger and a Shorter, which were intended for use in Christian families and in churches. These documents have served as the doctrinal standards, subordinate to the Bible, for Presbyterians and other Reformed churches around the world. The Shorter Catechism shows the Assembly's reliance upon the previous work of Calvin, Lasco, and the theologians of Heidelberg. It comprises two main sections summarizing what the Scriptures principally teach: the doctrine of God, and the duty required of men. Questions and answers cover the usual elements: faith, the Ten Commandments, the sacraments, and prayer.\n\nOecolampadius composed the \"Basel Catechism\" in 1526, Leo Juda (1534) followed by Bullinger (1555) published catechisms in Zurich. The French Reformed used Calvin's Genevan catechism, as well as works published by Louis Cappel (1619), and Charles Drelincourt (1642).\n\nEnglish Calvinistic Baptists typically adopted Reformed catechisms, modifying them to reflect their own convictions concerning the nature of the church and the sacrament of baptism. In 1680, the Baptist minister Hercules Collins published his own revision of the Heidelberg Catechism. Later, the General Assembly of 1677 adopted a catechism that was largely based on the Westminster Shorter Catechism. However, this catechism was not published until 1689, after the passing of the Act of Toleration 1689. The baptists who claim to be independent fundamental KJV bible believing baptists do not use catechisms in their doctrine.\n\nWhile the Pentecostal movement has no one official catechism or confession, nevertheless Pentecostal authors have produced catechetical works. William Seymour, founder of the Azusa Street revival, included a catechism in the Doctrines and Disciplines of the Azusa Street Apostolic Faith Mission. Assemblies of God minister Warren D. Combs produced a catechism in the 1960s. In 2016 Henry Volk the host of the Theology in Perspective podcast authored a resource entitled, A Pentecostal Catechism.\n\nThe Anglican Book of Common Prayer includes a catechism. In older editions it is a brief manual for the instruction of those preparing to be brought before the bishop for confirmation: the baptised first professes his baptism, and then rehearses the principal elements of the faith into which he has been baptised: the Apostles' Creed, Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer, and the sacraments.\n\nCatechist: What is your Name?<br>\nAnswer: N. or M.<br>\nCatechist: Who gave you this Name?<br>\nAnswer: My Godfathers and Godmothers\nin my Baptism; wherein I was made a member of Christ, the child of God, and an inheritor of the kingdom of heaven.\nThe \"N. or M.\" stands for the Latin, \"nomen vel nomina\", meaning \"name or names\". It is an accident of typography that \"nomina\" came to be represented by \"m\".\n\nThe 1979 American book has a considerably longer catechism intended as \"an outline of instruction\" and \"a brief summary of the Church's teaching\".\n\n\"The Catechism of the Methodist Episcopal Church\" is an official catechism for that denomination, now known as the United Methodist Church. More recent publications are \"A Larger Catechism: For Members of the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church\" (printed in the United States) and \"A Catechism for the Use of the People Called Methodists\" (printed in Great Britain).\n\nBesides the manuals of instruction that were published by the Protestants for use in their families and churches, there were other works produced by sectarian groups intended as a compact refutation of orthodoxy.\n\nFor example, Socinians in Poland published the \"Racovian Catechism\" in 1605, using the question and answer format of a catechism for the orderly presentation of their arguments against the Trinity and the doctrine of Hell, as these were understood by the Reformed churches from which they were forced to separate.\n\nThe Anabaptists have also produced catechisms of their own, to explain and defend their distinctives.\n\nThe \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" (see below) is the catechism that is in most widespread use among Catholics today. It is the official catechism of the Church.\n\nFor Catholics, all the canonical books of the Bible (including the Deuterocanonical books), the tradition of the Church and the interpretation of these by the Magisterium (which may be outlined in a catechism, a compendium or a declaration) constitute the complete and best resource for fully attaining to God's revelation to mankind. Catholics believe that sacred scripture and sacred tradition preserved and interpreted by the Magisterium are both necessary for attaining to the fullest understanding of all of God's revelation.\n\nThe term \"catechist\" is most frequently used in Catholicism, often to describe a \"lay catechist\" or layperson with catechetical training who engages in such teaching and evangelization. This can be in both parish church and mission contexts.\n\nThe \"Roman Catechism\" (also called, the Catechism of the Council of Trent or the Catechism of Pius V) was first published in 1566 under the authority of the Council of Trent. It was not intended for common use by the laity, but as a general use reference book for priests and bishops.\n\nThe \"Catechism of Saint Pius X\" is a short catechism with questions and answers regarding the essentials of Catholic faith and doctrine. It was issued by Pope Pius X at the beginning of the 20th century in Italian, with the intention that all Catholics could easily understand their faith.\n\nVarious editions of the \"Baltimore Catechism\" were the de facto standard Catholic school text in America from 1885 to the late 1960s. It was often taught by rote. The most common edition has a series of questions with their answers, which are followed by explanations in more depth. These are often accompanied by biblical quotes. There is a test at the end of every chapter.\n\nA question and answer format catechism that was the standard catechetical text in Great Britain in the earlier part of the 20th century. Popularly called the \"Penny Catechism\", as the original version only cost one penny. Various editions of the \"Penny Catechism\" were issued through the century and changes were made to the text. An online version is at http://www.proecclesia.com/penny%20catechism/index.htm.\n\nThe hotly debated \"Dutch Catechism\", \"De nieuwe katechismus\" (English translation: \"A New Catechism\"), of 1966 was the first comprehensive post-Vatican II Catholic catechism. It was commissioned and authorised by the Catholic hierarchy of the Netherlands, and in its foreword declares as its intention: \"to make the message of Jesus Christ sound as new as it is.\" The catechism, a bestseller, contained a number of problematic formulations. These were reviewed by a commission of cardinals, who detailed several significant shortcomings in the new catechism's presentation of Catholic doctrine. They were able, nonetheless, to \"leave untouched by far the greatest part of the New Catechism,\" while offering their support for \"the laudable purpose of the authors of the Catechism, namely, to present the eternal good tidings of Christ in a way adapted to the understanding and the thinking of the present day man.\"\n\nThe current \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" is the first complete systematic synthesis of faith issued since the Council of Trent in 1566. It contains articles on the classical topics of the official teaching of the Catholic Church on all matters of faith and morals. Since the official language of the Catholic Church is Latin, official teaching documents distributed in Latin are unlikely to change in perceived meaning over time. The Latin language version of the catechism, published 8 Sept 1997, is the \"editio typica\"—the normative and definitive text. The principal source materials for this work are the Sacred Scriptures, the Church Fathers, the liturgy, and the Magisterium. This catechism is intended to serve \"as a point of reference for the catechisms or compendia that are composed in the various countries.\" – Extraordinary Synod of Bishops 1985, Final Report II B a, 4.\n\n\"Fidei depositum\" is an Apostolic Constitution which states that the catechism of the Catholic Church is for the laity in its address to all the people of God.\n\nIt originated with a request of Pope John Paul II in February 2003 and was issued by his successor Pope Benedict XVI June 28, 2005. The English version was printed at Libreria Editrice Vaticana in 2006. Unlike the larger catechism, the Compendium is similar in format to the Baltimore Catechism with 598 questions and answers, providing an easier format with only the \"essential\" contents of the Catechism of the Catholic Church as the title suggests.\n\nThe 1992 Vatican catechism had several aims, among them to be an \"authentic reference text for teaching Catholic doctrine and particularly for preparing local catechisms\". American bishops responded with the 2006 United States Catholic Catechism for Adults (USCCB, 2006) – similar in format to a college textbook, targeting adults, contain seven elements that bring more depth to the material than the 'Compendium', providing more flexibility for diverse groups of people to study its contents. Each section or chapter contains the following: story or lesson of faith, foundation and application, sidebars, relationship to culture, discussion questions, doctrinal statements, and meditation and prayer. The lessons of faith stories are about individuals from the United States and allow the American reader to better relate to these individuals. This version of the catechism is available on audio CD-ROM as well.\n\nThe \"Enchiridion symbolorum, definitionum et declarationum de rebus fidei et morum\" also known as Enchiridion or Denzinger, is a compendium of all basic texts of Catholic dogma and morality since the apostles. Commissioned by Pope Pius IX, it has been in use since 1854, and has been updated periodically. It is a compendium of faith, like a catechism. By including all relevant teachings throughout history, it is at the same, more than a catechism. It is a search instrument for theologians, historians and anybody interested in Christian religion. The latest updates of the Enchiridion extend to the teachings of Pope John Paul II.\n\nThe Archbishop of Baltimore Cardinal James Gibbons is quoted in earlier versions of the Enchiridion, that every theologian should have always two books at hand, the Holy Bible and this \"Enchiridion\".\n\nThe Rev Henry Tuberville, DD wrote this catechism in 1649 at the English College of Douay in Flanders. It is based on the Roman Catechism of the Council of Trent and was similarly written with the purpose of teaching Christian doctrine during the tumultuous English Reformation. It is a testament to Rev. Tuberville and his colleagues at Douay that it remains one of the clearest and most direct compendiums of Catholic teaching in the English language.\n\nThe Catechism for Filipino Catholics (CFC) is a contextualised and inculturated Roman Catholic catechism for Filipinos prepared by the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines and approved by the Holy See. The draft was produced by the Conference's \"Episcopal Commission on Catechesis and Catholic Education,\" and is an update of the late 16th century \"Doctrina Christiana en Lengua Espanola Y Tagala\", which was a Hispano-Tagalog version of the earlier Hispano-Chinese \"Doctrina\" that was the first book printed in the Philippines using moveable type.\n\nThe \"Doctrina Cristiana\" was written in Tagalog (both in a hispanised Latin script and the then-common indigenous Baybayin script), as well as Spanish. Amongst the contents of the \"Doctrina\" are the Spanish alphabet and phonics, archaic Tagalog translations of basic prayers shown in both languages and scripts, and a brief catechism in a question-and-answer format.\n\nLaurence Vaux, B.D., a Catholic martyr, first published his catechism, also called The Catechism of Laurence Vaux or Vaux's Catechism, in Louvain in 1567. Six further editions in rapid succession, emanating from Antwerp and Liège, testified to its widespread popularity and effectiveness. The 1583 Liège issue was reprinted with biographical introduction for the Chetham Society by Thomas Graves Law in 1885. This edition contains also Vaux's paper \"The Use and Meaning of Ceremonies,\" and a few further pages of instruction added by the Liège publisher. The catechism is practically formed on the same lines as its successor of today, explaining in sequence the Apostles' Creed, the Lord's Prayer and Hail Mary (excluding the second half beginning at \"Holy Mary…\"), the Ten Commandments (at considerable length), the Sacraments and the offices of Christian justice. The treatise on the ceremonies discusses the use of holy water, candles, incense, vestments and so forth.\n\nThe catechetical instructions of Saint Thomas Aquinas were used generally throughout the 13th and 14th centuries as manuals and textbooks for priests and teachers of religion. \"The Explanations of St. Thomas,\" wrote Spirago, \"are remarkable for their conciseness and their simplicity of language; they are especially noteworthy because the main parts of the catechetical course of instruction are brought into connection with one another so that they appear as one harmonious whole.\" The influence of these works is especially prominent in the \"Roman Catechism\" which the Council of Trent ordered written for parish priests and for all teachers of religion. Many of the explanatory passages in both works are almost identical.\n\n\"Ignorantia Sacerdotum\" are the first words and the better-known title of \"De Informatione Simplicium\", a catechetical manual drafted by Archbishop Pecham's provincial Council of Lambeth in 1281. It called for the memorisation of the Apostle's Creed, the Ten Commandments, and the two-fold injunction to \"love the Lord thy God with all thy heart... and thy neighbour as thyself.\".\n\nIt also emphasised the Seven Virtues, the Seven Deadly Sins, the Seven Sacraments, and the Seven Works of Mercy.\n\nA 1357 translation into English is often called the Lay-Folk's Catechism.\n\nCatechisms represent an obvious, practical method of passing on instruction, and as such examples can be found in many traditions. For example, Asiatic schools of esoteric learning also used a catechetical style of instruction, as this Zodiac catechism shows:\n\nQ. \"Where is the animal, O Lanoo? and where the Man?<br>\nA. Fused into one, O Master of my Life. The two are one. But both have disappeared and naught remains but the deep fire of my desire.\nIn Zoroastrianism there is the \"ČĪDAG ANDARZ Ī PŌRYŌTKĒŠĀN\" also known as \"Pand-nāmag ī Zardušt\" (Book of the counsels of Zoroaster), which is a post-Sasanian compendium of apothegms intended to instruct every Zoroastrian male, upon his attaining the age of fifteen years, in fundamental religious and ethical principles, as well as in the daily duties incumbent upon him. In Robert Charles Zaehner's words, it \"sums up succinctly the whole of Zoroastrian doctrine: it is what every boy and girl of fifteen must know before he or she is invested with the sacred girdle {kusti}.\" \n\nJudaism does not have a formal catechism. While there have been several attempts to formulate Jewish principles of faith, and some of these have achieved wide acceptance, none can be described as being in the form of a catechism. The most widely recited formulation, Yigdal, is in the form of a hymn based on Maimonides' 13 Articles of Faith.\n\nBhaktivinoda Thakur's book \"Jaiva Dharma\" is an example of Gaudiya Vaishnava catechism. It follows the usual question-answer format.\n\nIn the Pali Canon of Theravada Buddhism a small bit of catechism appears as the fourth section of the Khuddakapatha, as well as the forty-third and forty-fourth suttas of the Majjhima Nikaya. Henry Steel Olcott introduced his own form of Buddhist catechism, appropriated from Christianity, to Ceylon when setting up his Buddhist education system during the late 19th century Buddhist revival on the island.\n\nIslam teaches children and new Muslims the matters of faith, worship, and ethics in the form of a concise manual. They are popular in Turkish as \"Ilmihal\" (from the Arabic \"Ilm ul-Hal\", Situation Science). The first chapter is the book of cleanliness and first to be taught are subjects such as: which are clean, what is clean and what is not clean, what people need to be cleansed from, how they should clean, and which water should they use to clean.\n\nIn the past, catechisms were written to rehearse the basic knowledge of a non-religious subject. Examples include numerous political catechisms published from the 18th to the 20th century in Europe as well as in North and South America. See also the \"Catechism of the History of Newfoundland\" (c1856), the \"Coal Catechism\" (1898), and \"A Catechism of the Steam Engine\" (1856). \n\"Elementary catechism on the Constitution of the United States\" Arthur J. Stansbnr (1828), \"Catechism of the Constitution of the United States\" Lewis Cruger (1863) and \"A Catechism of the Constitution of the United States of America\" John V. Overall. Friedrich Engels' 1847 work \"Principles of Communism\" was written as a catechism: Engels subsequently decided that the format was not suited to the addition of historical material which he felt was necessary, and he and Karl Marx restructured the material and used it as the nucleus of \"The Communist Manifesto\".\n\nSome literary works have also taken the form of a catechism. The 17th episode of James Joyce's novel \"Ulysses\", known as \"Ithaca\", is written in the form of a catechism, as is Ted Hughes' poem \"Examination at the Womb Door\", from the collection \"Crow\". In Henry IV, Part 1: Act V, Scene I, Line 141 Falstaff refers to his monologue as a catechism, explaining his view of the virtue of honor.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n by John Bourne\n"}
{"id": "17616422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616422", "title": "Catholic Church in Ecuador", "text": "Catholic Church in Ecuador\n\nThe Catholic Church in Ecuador comprises only a Latin hierarchy, united in a national episcopal conference, which comprises :\nThe Metropolitan Archbishopric of Quito is the Primatial see of Ecuador.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature as papal diplomatic representation (embassy level), in national capital Quito.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic jurisdictions and no titular sees. All defunct jurisdictions have current successor sees.\n\nThe boundaries of the 24 administrative provinces of Ecuador mostly coincide with the boundaries of most territorial ecclesiastical jurisdictions.\n\nThese are directly dependent on the Holy See.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6637052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6637052", "title": "Co-Redemptrix", "text": "Co-Redemptrix\n\nCo-Redemptrix is a title used by some Roman Catholics for the Blessed Virgin Mary, as well as a Catholic theological concept referring to Mary's role in the redemption of all peoples. It has always been controversial and has never formed part of the dogma of the Church. According to those who use the term, \"Co-Redemptrix\" refers to a subordinate but essential participation by the Blessed Virgin Mary in redemption, notably that she gave free consent to give life to the Redeemer, which meant sharing his life, suffering, and death, which were redemptive for the world. Related to this belief is the concept of Mary as Mediatrix, which is a separate concept but regularly included by Catholics who use the title \"Co-Redemptrix\".\n\nAs early as the year 200 the Church Father Irenaeus referred to Mary as the cause of our salvation () given her \"fiat\" (\"let it be\"). Theologians distinguish between \"remote cooperation\", by which she consents to the Incarnation and gives birth to the Son of God, and \"immediate cooperation\", in which she willingly unites herself to her Son's Passion and offers him back to the Father. Philosophers also draw a distinction between merit \"de condigno\" (Christ's merit), which is based on justice, and merit \"proprie de congruo\" (Mary's merit), founded on the friendship of charity. \n\nThe concept was especially common in the late Middle Ages, when it was promoted heavily among the Franciscans, and often resisted by the Dominicans. It is an idea which was the subject of considerable theological debate, reaching a peak in the 15th century. By the early 16th century the hopes of the concept becoming Catholic doctrine had receded, and have never seriously revived.\n\nA number of theologians have discussed the concept over the years, from the 19th century Father Frederick William Faber, to the 20th century Mariologist Father Gabriel Roschini. In his 1946 publication \"Compendium Mariologiae\", Roschini explained that Mary did not only participate in the birth of the physical Jesus, but, with conception, she entered with him into a spiritual union. The divine salvation plan, being not only material, includes a permanent spiritual unity with Christ. Most Mariologists agree with this position. \n\nModern proponents see some support in \"Inter sodalica\", a 1918 commemorative letter of Pope Benedict XV to a Roman sodality: \"As the Blessed Virgin Mary does not seem to participate in the public life of Jesus Christ, and then, suddenly appears at the stations of his cross, she is not there without divine intention. She suffers with her suffering and dying son, almost as if she would have died herself. For the salvation of mankind, she gave up her rights as the mother of her son and, in a sense, offered Christ's sacrifice to God the Father as far as she was permitted to do. Therefore, one can say, she redeemed with Christ the human race.\" There has been neither a retraction so far, nor any equivalent statements since. \n\nIn his encyclical on the Immaculate Conception, \"Ad diem illum\", Pope Pius X said, \"...since Mary carries it over all in holiness and union with Jesus Christ, and has been associated by Jesus Christ in the work of redemption, she merits for us \"de congruo\", in the language of theologians, what Jesus Christ merits for us \"de condigno\".\" Pope Pius XII, in his encyclical on the \"Mystical Body of Christ\", \"Mystici Corporis\", said, \"It was she, the second Eve, who, free from all sin, original or personal, and always more intimately united with her Son, offered Him on Golgotha to the Eternal Father for all the children of Adam, sin-stained by his unhappy fall, and her mother's rights and her mother's love were included in the holocaust. Thus she who, according to the flesh, was the mother of our Head, through the added title of pain and glory became, according to the Spirit, the mother of all His members.\" However, attempts to promote a fifth marian dogma undertaken in the 20s-40s of the twentieth century did not come to fruition due to Pius XII's veto. \n\nThe term was not used in the concluding chapter of the apostolic constitution \"Lumen gentium\" of the Second Vatican Council, which chapter many theologians hold to be a comprehensive summary of Roman Catholic Mariology. Some, in particular the adherents of the Amsterdam visions, have petitioned for a dogmatic definition, along with \"Mediatrix\", but recent high-level comments in the Church have not encouraged these hopes.\n\nOn April 7, 2017, the Congregation of the Mother Co-Redemptrix was renamed to the Congregation of the Mother of the Redeemer upon the recommendation of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples, due to the \"theological ambiguity\" of the title Co-Redemptrix.\n\nThe concept of Mary offering Christ's sufferings is theologically complex. Christ offered himself alone; “the Passion of Christ did not need any assistance.” It is according to the spirit of the offertory or preparation of the gifts within the Mass to prepare to offer oneself with Christ as a part of the Eucharistic Prayer, being members of his mystical body, acknowledging that not even the greatest effort, of itself and apart from Christ, can be of any significance to God. A priest participates in the Eucharistic Celebration as an icon of Christ. The Holy Office has forbidden reference to Mary as a priestess.\n\nMary “merits for us \"de congruo\"”, i.e. by way of a fitting reward not binding upon God, “what Jesus Christ merits for us \"de condigno\"”, i.e. by God binding himself to give the reward. It is uncertain whether Pope Pius X meant \"for us” to mean all mankind except Christ's human nature and Mary, or only those living after Mary's merits, since the former could potentially break the general rule that the effect comes after the cause. Where it concerns post-Assumption graces, it is a pious opinion that the entirety of them come through the \"intercession\" of Mary, a concept that is in itself in need of clarification.\n\nThe Roman Catholic view of the title \"Co-Redemptrix\" does not imply that Mary participates as equal part in the redemption of the human race, since Christ is the only redeemer. Mary herself needed redemption and was redeemed by Jesus Christ. Being redeemed by Christ, implies that she cannot be his equal part in the redemption process. Similarly, if Mary is described as the \"mediatrix\" of all graces, it “is to be so understood that it neither takes away from nor adds anything to the dignity and efficaciousness of Christ the one Mediator”.\n\nPope Pius XII in \"Munificentissimus Deus\", the bull defining the dogma of the Assumption of Mary, used the expression \"the revered Mother of God, ... joined ... with Jesus Christ in one and the same decree of predestination ... as the noble associate of the divine Redeemer\".\n\nThis whole topic is made more complex by the evolving understanding of what \"sacrifice\" means in the Catholic church, whether it is propitiatory or expiatory.\n\nThe New Testament is commonly cited in favour of this teaching:\n\n\n\nThere have been efforts to propose a formal dogmatization, which has had both popular and ecclesiastical support. It was brought up at the Second Vatican Council by Italian, Spanish, and Polish bishops, but not dealt with on the council floor. Subsequently, while perhaps sympathetic to requests from the faithful and bishops, popes pointedly did not include such language in their encyclicals.\n\nThe proposal is the first-ever case that the apparitions of Our Lady of all Nations to Ida Peerdeman, in Amsterdam, Netherlands, has reportedly proposed, or rather, demanded, a dogma from the entire Catholic Church. Up to then, Marian apparitions confirmed existing dogmas rather than demanding new ones. Since 2002, the Amsterdam apparitions have had approval of the diocesan bishop, Monsignor Jozef Marianus Punt, Bishop of Haarlem-Amsterdam. However, given the fact that a non-approving decision from Rome in the 1970s seems to have had some degree of finality, it brings the subsequent jurisdiction of Msgr. Punt into question.\n\nIn the early 1990s Prof. Mark Miravalle of the Franciscan University of Steubenville and author of the book \"Mary: Coredemptrix, Mediatrix, Advocate\" launched a popular petition to urge Pope John Paul II to declare Mary Co-Redemptrix \"ex cathedra\".\n\nSalvatore Perrella, O.S.M., of the Pontifical Theological Faculty of the Marianum in Rome, thought that this indicated \"...a certain 'under-appreciation' of the Council's teaching, which is perhaps believed to be not completely adequate to illustrate comprehensively Mary's co-operation in Christ's work of Redemption.\"\n\nThe Roman Catholic view of Co-Redemptrix does not imply that Mary participates as equal part in the redemption of the human race, since Christ is the only redeemer. Mary herself needed redemption and was redeemed by Jesus Christ her son. Being redeemed by Christ, implies that she cannot be his equal part in the redemption process.\n\nArguments opposed are that such a dogma might limit, in popular understanding, the redemptive role of Jesus Christ. Faber says,\nFaber recognized that the term \"Co-Redemptrix\" usually requires some explanation in modern English because so often the prefix \"co-\" tends to imply complete equality. He also explains that, \"Thus, so far as the literal meaning of the word is concerned, it would appear that the term co-redemptress is not theologically true, or at least does not express the truth it certainly contains with theological accuracy.\" \n\nThis concern is shared by Perrella.The semantic weight of this expression would require a good many other qualifications and clarifications, especially in the case under examination, where she who is wished to be proclaimed co-redeemer is, in the first place, one who is redeemed, albeit in a singular manner, and who participates in Redemption primarily as something she herself receives. Thus we see the inadequacy of the above-mentioned term for expressing a doctrine which requires, even from the lexical standpoint, the proper nuances and distinctions of levels.\n\nIt was rejected by the Vatican in the past because of serious theological difficulties. In August 1996, a Mariological Congress was held in Częstochowa, Poland, where a commission was established in response to a request of the Holy See. The congress sought the opinion of scholars present there regarding the possibility of proposing a fifth Marian dogma on Mary as Co-Redemptrix, Mediatrix, and Advocate. The commission unanimously declared that it was not opportune, voting 23-0 against the proposed dogma.\n\nAnother argument is that it would also complicate ecumenical efforts for a better understanding of the role of the Blessed Virgin Mary in the salvation mystery of Jesus Christ.\n\nBy 1998 it was doubtful the Vatican was going to consider new Marian dogmas. The papal spokesman stated \"This is not under study by the Holy Father nor by any Vatican congregation or commission.\" A leading Mariologist stated the petition was \"theologically inadequate, historically a mistake, pastorally imprudent and ecumenically unacceptable.\" Pope John Paul II cautioned against \"all false exaggeration\"; his teaching and devotion to Mary has strictly been \"exalting Mary as the first among believers but concentrating all faith on the Triune God and giving primacy to Christ.\" In his 1994 Apostolic letter, \"Tertio Milennio Adveniente\", John Paul said, \"Christ, the Redeemer of the world, is the one Mediator between God and men, and there is no other name under heaven by which we can be saved (cf. Acts 4:12).\" When asked in an interview in 2000 whether the Church would go along with the desire to solemnly define Mary as Co-Redemptrix, then-Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI) responded that,\n\nthe formula “Co-redemptrix” departs to too great an extent from the language of Scripture and of the Fathers and therefore gives rise to misunderstandings. ...Everything comes from Him [Christ], as the Letter to the Ephesians and the Letter to the Colossians, in particular, tell us; Mary, too, is everything she is through Him. The word “Co-redemptrix” would obscure this origin. A correct intention being expressed in the wrong way.\n\nBenedict further explained his notable opposition of a dogmatization, concluding that the title is sufficiently included in other better expressions of Catholic Marian teaching. \"For example, the Scriptural account is unsatisfactory, and above all, we are talking most of the time of a merit \"de congruo\" which would seem, by the very definition of \"de congruo\", not fit into the exact clearness needed for dogmatic definitions.\"\n\nRené Laurentin, theologian specializing in Mariology, said \"“There is no mediation or co-redemption except in Christ. He alone is God.”\n\n\n\nFathers and Doctors of the Catholic Church on Mary as Co-Redemptrix\n"}
{"id": "39720153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39720153", "title": "Consequences of religiosity", "text": "Consequences of religiosity\n\nSociologists of religion have stated that religious behaviour may have a concrete impact on a person's life. These consequences of religiosity are thought to include emotional and physical health, spiritual well-being, personal, marital, and family happiness.\n\nThis term \"consequences\" as the result of one's religiosity first appeared in Charles Y. Glock's five-dimensional religiosity measure. In the 1960s, Glock attempted to categorize the components of religiosity. In his five-dimensional scheme \"consequences\" are listed as the final dimension of religiosity. Glock theorized that certain consequences in a person's life can be attributed to religious living. Consequences of religiosity may include emotional and physical health, spiritual well-being, personal, marital, and family happiness. This, however, does not preclude the possibility of these factors working in the reverse as health, happiness and the like may interact with and have an influence on one's level of religiosity.\n\nGlock's consequential dimension of religiosity was criticized by some sociologists as they saw Glock's final dimension as \"consequence of\" religiosity and not a \"dimension of\" it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1641235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1641235", "title": "Corporate poverty", "text": "Corporate poverty\n\nCorporate poverty is the practice of refusing to own property, either individually or corporately. This practice of Middle Ages religious communities developed based on Christian religious beliefs. Practical considerations generally allow for some exceptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1823753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823753", "title": "Critical Buddhism", "text": "Critical Buddhism\n\nCritical Buddhism (Japanese: 批判仏教, hihan bukkyō) is a trend in Japanese Buddhist scholarship, associated primarily with the works of Hakamaya Noriaki (袴谷憲昭) and Matsumoto Shirō (松本史朗). Hakamaya states that \"'Buddhism is criticism' or that 'only that which is critical is Buddhism.'\" He contrasts it with what he calls \"Topical Buddhism\", in comparison to the concepts of critical philosophy and topical philosophy. According to Lin Chen-kuo, Hakamaya's view is that \"Critical Buddhism sees methodical, rational critique as belonging to the very foundations of Buddhism itself, while 'Topical Buddhism' emphasizes the priority of rhetoric over logical thinking, of ontology over epistemology.\"\n\nCritical Buddhism targeted specifically certain concepts prevalent in Japanese Mahayana Buddhism and rejected them as being non-buddhist. \nFor example, Matsumoto Shirō and Hakamaya Noriaki reject the doctrine of Tathagatagarbha, which according to their view is at odds with the fundamental Buddhist doctrine of dependent origination.\n\nCritical Buddhism became known to Western scholarship due to a panel discussion held at the American Academy of Religion's 1993 meeting in Washington, DC with the title \"Critical Buddhism: Issues and Responses to a New Methodological Movement\", which led to an English collection of essays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36211652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36211652", "title": "Ethiopian art", "text": "Ethiopian art\n\nEthiopian art from the 4th century until the 20th can be divided into two broad groupings. First comes a distinctive tradition of Christian art, mostly for churches, in forms including painting, crosses, icons, illuminated manuscripts, and other metalwork such as crowns. Secondly there are popular arts and crafts such as textiles, basketry and jewellery, in which Ethiopian traditions are closer to those of other peoples in the region. Its history goes back almost three thousand years to the kingdom of D'mt. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church has been the predominant religion in Ethiopia for over 1500 years, for most of this period in a very close relation, or union, with the Coptic Christianity of Egypt, so that Coptic art has been the main formative influence on Ethiopian church art.\n\nPrehistoric rock art comparable to that of other African sites survives in a number of places, and until the arrival of Christianity stone stelae, often carved with simple reliefs, were erected as grave-markers and for other purposes in many regions; Tiya is one important site. The \"pre-Axumite\" Iron Age culture of about the 5th century BCE to the 1st century CE was influenced by the Kingdom of Kush to the north, and settlers from Arabia, and produced cities with simple temples in stone, such as the ruined one at Yeha, which is impressive for its date in the 4th or 5th century BCE.\n\nThe powerful Kingdom of Aksum emerged in the 1st century BCE and dominated Ethiopia until the 10th century, having become very largely Christian from the 4th century. Although some buildings and large, pre-Christian stelae exist, there appears to be no surviving Ethiopian Christian art from the Axumite period. However the earliest works remaining show a clear continuity with Coptic art of earlier periods. There was considerable destruction of churches and their contents in the 16th century when the country was invaded by Muslim neighbours. The revival of art after this was influenced by Catholic European art in both iconography and elements of style, but retained its Ethiopian character. In the 20th century, Western artists and architects began to be commissioned by the government, and to train local students, and more fully Westernized art was produced alongside continuations of traditional church art.\n\nChurch paintings in Ethiopia were likely produced as far back as the introduction of Christianity in the 4th century AD, although the earliest surviving examples come from the church of Debre Selam Mikael in the Tigray Region, dated to the 11th century AD. However, the 7th-century AD followers of the Islamic prophet Muhammad who fled to Axum in temporary exile mentioned that the original Church of Our Lady Mary of Zion was decorated with paintings. Other early paintings include those from the rock-hewn churches of Lalibela, dated to the 12th century AD, and in nearby Geneta Maryam, dated to the 13th century AD. However, paintings in illuminated manuscripts predate the earliest surviving church paintings; for instance, the Ethiopian Garima Gospels of the 4th-6th centuries AD contain illuminated scenes imitating the contemporary Byzantine style.\n\nEthiopian painting, on walls, in books, and in icons, is highly distinctive, though the style and iconography are closely related to the simplified Coptic version of Late Antique and Byzantine Christian art. It is typified by simplistic, almost cartoonish, figures with large, almond-shaped, eyes. Colours are usually bright and vivid. The majority of paintings are religious in nature, often decorating church walls and bibles. One of the best known examples of this type of painting is at Debre Berhan Selassie in Gondar (pictured), famed for its angel-covered roof (angels in Ethiopian art are often represented as winged heads) as well as its other murals dating from the late 17th century. Diptychs and triptychs are also commonly painted with religious icons. From the 16th century, Roman Catholic church art and European art in general began to exert some influence. However, Ethiopian art is highly conservative and retained much of its distinct character until modern times. The production of illuminated manuscripts for use continued up to the present day. Pilgrimages to Jerusalem, where there has long been an Ethiopian clerical presence, also allowed some contact with a wider range of Orthodox art.\n\nChurches may be very fully painted, although until the 19th century there is little sign of secular painting other than scenes commemorating the life of donors to churches on their walls. Unusually for Orthodox Christianity, icons were not usually kept in houses (where talimanic scrolls were often kept instead), but in the church. Some \"diptyches\" are in the form of a \"ark\" or \"tabot\", in these cases consecrated boxes with a painted inside of the lid, placed closed on the altar during Mass, somewhat equivalent to the altar stone in the Western church, and the antimins in other Orthodox churches. These are regarded as so holy that the laity is not allowed to see them, and they are wrapped in cloth when taken in procession.\n\nEthiopian diptychs often have a primary wing with a frame. A smaller second wing, which is only the size of the image within the frame, is painted on both sides to allow closed and open views. Icons are painted on a wood base support, but since about the 16th century with an intervening cloth support glued to a gesso layer above the wood. The binding medium for the paint is also animal-based glue, giving a matt finish which is then often varnished. A range of mostly mineral pigments are used, giving a palette based on reds, yellow and blues. Underdrawing was used, which may remain visible or reinforced by painted edges to areas of colour in the final layer.\n\nFrom the 15th century the Theotokos or Virgin Mary, with or without her Child, became increasingly popular. They used versions of a number of common Byzantine types, typically flanked by two archangels in iconic depictions. She is often depicted with a neighbouring image of a mounted Saint George and the Dragon, who in Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity is regarded as especially linked to Mary, for carrying messages or intervening in human affairs on her behalf.\n\nAnother important form of Ethiopian art, also related to Coptic styles, are crosses made from wood and metal. They are usually copper alloy or brass, plated (at least originally) with gold or silver. The heads are typically flat cast plates with elaborate and complex openwork decoration. The cross motif emerges from the decoration, with the whole design often forming a rotated square or circular shape, though the designs are highly varied and inventive. Many incorporate curved motifs rising from the base, which are called the \"arms of Adam\". Except in recent Western-influenced examples, they usually have no \"corpus\", or figure of Christ, and the design often incorporates numerous smaller crosses. Engraved figurative imagery has sometimes been added. Crosses are mostly either processional crosses, with the metal head mounted on a long wooden staff, carried in religious processions and during the liturgy, or hand crosses, with a shorter metal handle in the same casting as the head. Smaller crosses worn as jewellery are also common.\n\nThe Lalibela Cross is an especially venerated hand cross, perhaps of the 12th century, which was stolen from a church in Lalibela in 1997 and eventually recovered and returned from a Belgian collector in 2001.\n\nDistinctive forms of crown were worn in ceremonial contexts by royalty and important noble officials, as well as senior clergy. Royal crowns rose high, with a number of circular bands, while church crowns often resemble an elongated version of the typical European closed crown, with four arms joined at the top and surmounted by a cross.\n\nEthiopia has great ethnic and linguistic diversity, and styles in secular traditional crafts vary greatly in different parts of the country. There are a range of traditions in textiles, many with woven geometric decoration, although many types are also usually plain. Ethiopian church practices make a great deal of use of colourful textiles, and the more elaborate types are widely used as church vestments and as hangings, curtains and wrappings in churches, although they have now largely been supplanted by Western fabrics. Examples of both types can be seen in the picture at the top of the article. Icons may normally be veiled with a semi-transparent or opaque cloth; very thin chiffon-type cotton cloth is a speciality of Ethiopia, though usually with no pattern.\n\nColourful basketry with a coiled construction is common in rural Ethiopia. The products have many uses, such as storing grains, seeds and food and being used as tables and bowls. The Muslim city of Harar is well known for its high quality basketry, and many craft products of the Muslim minority relate to wider Islamic decorative traditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38193", "title": "Fetishism", "text": "Fetishism\n\nA fetish (derived from the French \"fétiche\"; which comes from the Portuguese \"feitiço\"; and this in turn from Latin \"facticius\", \"artificial\" and \"facere\", \"to make\") is an object believed to have supernatural powers, or in particular, a human-made object that has power over others. Essentially, fetishism is the emic attribution of inherent value or powers to an object.\n\nThe term \"fetish\" has evolved from an idiom used to describe a type of objects created in the interaction between European travelers and Africans in the early modern period to an analytical term that played a central role in the perception and study of non-Western art in general and African art in particular.\n\nWilliam Pietz, who conducted an extensive ethno-historical study of the fetish, argues that the term originated in the coast of West Africa during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Pietz distinguishes between, on the one hand, actual African objects that may be called fetishes in Europe, together with the indigenous theories of them, and on the other hand, \"fetish\", an idea, and an idea of a kind of object, to which the term above applies.\n\nAccording to Pietz, the post-colonial concept of \"fetish\" emerged from the encounter between Europeans and Africans in a very specific historical context and in response to African material culture.\n\nHe begins his polemic with an introduction to the complex history of the word:\n\nMy argument, then, is that the fetish could originate only in conjunction with the emergent articulation of the ideology of the commodity form that defined itself within and against the social values and religious ideologies of two radically different types of noncapitalist society, as they encountered each other in an ongoing cross-cultural situation. This process is indicated in the history of the word itself as it developed from the late medieval Portuguese \"feitiço\", to the sixteenth-century pidgin \"Fetisso\" on the African coast, to various northern European versions of the word via the 1602 text of the Dutchman Pieter de Marees... The fetish, then, not only originated from, but remains specific to, the problem of the social value of material objects as revealed in situations formed by the encounter of radically heterogeneous social systems, and a study of the history of the idea of the fetish may be guided by identifying those themes that persist throughout the various discourses and disciplines that have appropriated the term.\n\nStallybrass concludes that \"Pietz shows that the fetish as a concept was elaborated to demonize the supposedly arbitrary attachment of West Africans to material objects. The European subject was constituted in opposition to a demonized fetishism, through the disavowal of the object.\"\n\nInitially, the Portuguese developed the concept of the fetish to refer to the objects used in religious cults by West African natives. The contemporary Portuguese \"feitiço\" may refer to more neutral terms such as charm, enchantment, juju or abracadabra, or more potentially offensive terms such as witchcraft, witchery, conjuration or bewitchment.\n\nThe concept was popularized in Europe circa 1757, when Charles de Brosses used it in comparing West African religion to the magical aspects of ancient Egyptian religion. Later, Auguste Comte employed the concept in his theory of the evolution of religion, wherein he posited fetishism as the earliest (most primitive) stage, followed by polytheism and monotheism. However, ethnography and anthropology would classify some artifacts of monotheistic religions as fetishes. For example, the Holy Cross and the consecrated host or tokens of communion found in some forms of Christianity (a monotheistic religion), are here regarded as examples of fetishism.\n\nThe eighteenth-century intellectuals who articulated the theory of fetishism encountered this notion in descriptions of \"Guinea\" contained in such popular voyage collections as Ramusio's \"Viaggio e Navigazioni\" (1550), de Bry's \"India Orientalis\" (1597), Purchas's \"Hakluytus Posthumus\" (1625), Churchill's \"Collection of Voyages and Travels\" (1732), Astley's \"A New General Collection of Voyages and Travels\" (1746), and Prevost's \"Histoire generale des voyages\" (1748).\n\nThe theory of fetishism was consecrated at the end of the eighteenth century by G.W.F Hegel in \"Lectures on the Philosophy of History\". According to Hegel, Africans were incapable of abstract thought, their ideas and actions were governed by impulse, and therefore a fetish object could be anything that then was arbitrarily imbued with imaginary powers.\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries, Tylor and McLennan, historians of religion, held that the concept of fetishism fostered a shift of attention away from the relationship between people and God, to focus instead on a relationship between people and material objects, and that this, in turn, allowed for the establishment of false models of causality for natural events. This they saw as a central problem historically and sociologically.\n\nIn 1927, Sigmund Freud published his essay on \"Fetishism\", in which he writes that the meaning and purpose of the fetish turns out, through analysis, to always be the same: \"the fetish is a substitute for the penis...for a particular and quite special penis that had been extremely important in early childhood but had later been lost.\" In refusing to see his mother's lack of penis, the boy disavows (German: \"Verleugnung\", not repression: \"Verdrängung\") what he sees, resulting in both a belief and a non-belief in the woman's phallus. This compromise (produced by the conflict between perception and the counter-wish) results in a substitute (the fetish). \"It remains a token of triumph over the threat of castration and a protection against it.\"\n\nThe use of the concept in the study of religion derives from studies of traditional West African religious beliefs, as well as from Voodoo, which in turn derives from those beliefs.\n\nFetishes were commonly used in Native American religion and practices. The bear represented the shaman, the buffalo was the provider, the mountain lion was the warrior, and the wolf was the pathfinder.\n\nMade and used by the BaKongo people of western Zaire, a \"nkisi\" (plural \"minkisi\") is a sculptural object that provides a local habitation for a spiritual personality. Though some minkisi have always been anthropomorphic, they were probably much less naturalistic or \"realistic\" before the arrival of the Europeans in the nineteenth century; Kongo figures are more naturalistic in the coastal areas than inland. As Europeans tend to think of spirits as objects of worship, idols become the objects of idolatry when worship was addressed to false gods. In this way, Europeans regarded \"minkisi\" as idols on the basis of false assumptions.\n\nEuropeans often called nkisi \"fetishes\" and sometimes \"idols\" because they are sometimes rendered in human form. Modern anthropology has generally referred to these objects either as \"power objects\" or as \"charms\".\n\nIn addressing the question of whether a \"nkisi\" is a fetish, William McGaffey writes that the Kongo ritual system as a whole,\n\nbears a relationship similar to that which Marx supposed that \"political economy\" bore to capitalism as its \"religion\", but not for the reasons advanced by Bosman, the Enlightenment thinkers, and Hegel. The irrationally \"animate\" character of the ritual system's symbolic apparatus, including \"minkisi\", divination devices, and witch-testing ordeals, obliquely expressed real relations of power among the participants in ritual. \"Fetishism\" is about relations among people, rather than the objects that mediate and disguise those relations.\n\nTherefore, McGaffey concludes, to call a \"minkisi\" a fetish is to translate \"certain Kongo realities into the categories developed in the emergent social sciences of nineteenth century, post-enlightenment Europe.\"\n\nThe 19th century saw the introduction of two theories of fetishism outside what was typically considered religion. The first was Karl Marx's idea of commodity fetishism, in which the social relationships involved in production are experienced not as relationships among people, but as value-relationships between things (commodities – including labour – and money). The second was Alfred Binet's term sexual fetishism, the sexual attachment to an object in place of a person.\n\n"}
{"id": "41696322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41696322", "title": "Hasan II (Bavandid ruler)", "text": "Hasan II (Bavandid ruler)\n\nHasan II (Persian: حسن), also known as Fakhr al-Dawla Hasan (Persian: فخر الدوله حسن), was the last ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 1334 to 1349. He was the brother, and successor of Sharaf al-Muluk.\n\nIn 1344, the Sarbadar ruler Wajih ad-Din Mas'ud, sought to increase his territorial domains, and thus in 1344 invaded the domains of Hasan II and the Paduspanid ruler Eskandar II in Mazandaran with several hostile minor dynasties allied against him. When the Sarbadars advanced on Amol, Hasan decided to abandon the city. He then turned around and defeated the Sarbadar garrison at Sari, cutting off Mas'ud's line of retreat. Despite this, Mas'ud decided to press on. When Hasan attacked his rear, however, and Eskandar II met him at his front, Mas'ud was surrounded. The Sarbadars were decimated, and Mas'ud was captured by Eskandar II. He was handed over to the son of one of Togha Temur's former officials who had died fighting the Sarbadars in 1341/1342. Mas'ud was then executed by the latter. \n\nIn 1349, Hasan ordered the execution of one of his most powerful officials, Jalal ibn Ahmad Jal, who was from the powerful Jalali family which governed Sari. The execution resulted in a revolt by the nobles of Mazandaran. Hasan then tried to get support from another family of Mazandaran, the Chulabids. However, the two sons of Kiya Afrasiyab, a powerful Chulabi nobleman, murdered Hasan while the latter was in a bath on April 17. Afrasiyab then gained control of the Bavandid territories, thus marking the end of the Bavand dynasty and the start of the Afrasiyab dynasty. A son of Hasan managed to flee to the court of the Paduspanid ruler Eskandar II, who later tried to restore Bavand rule in Mazandaran, but failed to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "22236883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22236883", "title": "Hebrew Academy for Special Children", "text": "Hebrew Academy for Special Children\n\nHebrew Academy For Special Children (HASC) is a Jewish non-profit agency in New York City, United States, providing a wide range of supportive services to children with special needs. The organization is best known for its summer camps and its annual \"A Time for Music\" benefit concert.\n\nThe HASC (Hebrew Academy For Special Children) Programs were established in 1963 by Rabbi Max and Blanche Kahn to provide educational and clinical services to individuals from infancy through adulthood who exhibit developmental delays. HASC is currently directed by Samuel Kahn.\n\nHASC's services are geared toward infants, children, and adults with speech, learning, or motor limitations and also children who have behavioral difficulties. There are currently 6 locations in the New York region serving over 1,000 children. In addition HASC provides programs and living quarters like Camp HASC and assisted living apartments throughout the New York city area.\n\nA school is located in Woodmere, New York with a student body of approximately 890 students.\n\nPrograms are divided by approximate age ranges:\n\nHASC is well known for its annual \"A Time for Music\" benefit concert. These concerts have been held for the last 2 decades in venues such as Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall and Madison Square Garden. The concert is viewed as a major event within the New York Jewish community. In the past it has attracted contemporary Jewish stars like Mordechai Ben David, Avraham Fried, Yaakov Shwekey, Matisyahu, and Ovadya Yaish. A Time for Music is known to have a partnership with Yeshiva Boys Choir, and Eli Gerstner. A Time For Music (Being produced by Eli Gerstner since 2016) is taking several members and soloists of Yeshiva Boys Choir on tour around the United States in the Chicago and New Jersey areas, and several more to be announced\n\nCamp HASC is one of the many organizations founded by Max and Blanche Kahn, in the year 1970. Now Camp HASC is a host to what most consider \"Heaven on Earth\" with over 300 special needs children. These children are given individual counselors to work, play, and care for them throughout the entire summer.\nHASC also provides experience for new nurses just out of nursing school. For 7 weeks in the summer newly qualified nurses are running the show just as much as the counselors. A challenging part of their job experience for the new nurses is devising clever ways to encourage the campers to take their medications. The Infirmary provides an aid for those in need, the campers and counselors alike.\n\nThe school found itself in the news in 1998 when it named a building after Senator Alfonse D'Amato and the senator used derogatory terms about some of his political opponents in his acceptance speech.\n\nThe agency received a $430,000 federal grant in 2001 to establish a national service center for the disabled.\n\n"}
{"id": "15044829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15044829", "title": "Horns of Consecration", "text": "Horns of Consecration\n\n\"Horns of Consecration\" is an expression coined by Sir Arthur Evans to describe the symbol, ubiquitous in Minoan civilization, that represents the horns of the sacred bull: Sir Arthur Evans concluded, after noting numerous examples in Minoan and Mycenaean contexts, that the Horns of Consecration were \"a more or less conventionalised article of ritual furniture derived from the actual horns of the sacrificial oxen\" The much-photographed porous limestone horns of consecration on the East Propyleia at Knossos (\"illustration, right\") are restorations, but horns of consecration in stone or clay were placed on the roofs of buildings in Neopalatial Crete, or on tombs or shrines, probably as signs of sanctity of the structure. The symbol also appears on Minoan seals, often accompanied by double axes and bucrania, which are part of the iconography of Minoan bull sacrifice. Horns of consecration are among the cultic images painted on the Minoan coffins called \"larnakes\", sometimes in isolation; they may have flowers between the horns, or the labrys.\n\n"}
{"id": "57364131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57364131", "title": "Imam of Friday Prayer", "text": "Imam of Friday Prayer\n\nromyah ingraham gr 8 1220 yrs old\n\nThe Imam of Friday Prayer (Arabic: امام صلاة الجمعة) or Imam Jom'a (Jumu'ah) is the person who conducts the Friday prayer and preaches related sermons. The Imams of Friday Prayer are expected to be distinguished for their intellect ('Aql), faith, and rightfulness. Traditionally, a Friday prayer 'Imam' is required to be male and a legitimate child. Moreover, it is recommended (Mustahab) that the Imam be eloquent, brave, and watchful on prayer times, and also true to his speech.\n\nThere are many unanimous rulings (Ahkam) between Islamic denominations regarding the Friday prayer, but there are some different requirements when it comes to the Imam Jom'a. For instance, while there is a consensus about the five conditions: puberty, intellect, correctness of reciting, being man and not to be excusable, there are also disagreements. Disagreements include: the requirement of being Mo'menThe conditions of Imam Jom'a from the view of Islamic denominations hawzah.net retrieved 7 May 2018</ref>\n\nAccording to Islam, when an infallible Imam (Ma'sum) is present, the (ranking) officer of Friday Imam is related to him or to the person who is appointed by him.\n\nThe permanent Imam Jom'a of every city can reach an agreement on others as temporary Imams Jom'a.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "743093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=743093", "title": "Implant (Scientology)", "text": "Implant (Scientology)\n\nIn Scientology, an implant is a form of Thought insertion, similar to an engram but done deliberately and with evil intent. It is \"an intentional installation of fixed ideas, contra-survival to the thetan\".\n\nThe intention in the original engram or incident is to implant an idea or emotion or sensation, regarding some phenomenon etc. The intention in Scientology and Dianetics is to erase the compulsive or command effect of the idea, emotion, sensation, etc. so that the person can make a rational judgment and decision in the affected areas of life.\n\nScientology practices often have to do with addressing implants prior to the current lifetime — one of the most notable is the \"R6 implant\"; but in some cases current life implants are addressed. Examples of implants according to Scientology include Aversion therapy, Electroconvulsive therapy, hypnosis, various attempts at brainwashing, and the inducing of fear or terror. Note that this is not a complete list, as many kinds of incidents can include implants as an element.\n\nOther important implants in Scientology doctrine include the Helatrobus implants, which Hubbard claimed occurred 382 trillion years ago to 52 trillion years ago by an alien nation called the Helatrobans, who sought to restrain human minds by capturing and brainwashing thetans. These implants are said to be responsible for the concept of Heaven.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42321583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42321583", "title": "List of Billy Graham's crusades", "text": "List of Billy Graham's crusades\n\nBilly Graham's crusades were evangelistic campaigns conducted by Billy Graham between 1947 and 2005. Billy Graham conducted 417 crusades in 185 countries and territories on six continents. The first Billy Graham evangelistic campaign, held September 13–21, 1947, in the Civic Auditorium in Grand Rapids, Michigan, was attended by 6,000 people. He would rent a large venue, such as a stadium, park, or street. As the sessions became larger, he arranged a group of up to 5,000 people to sing in a choir. He would preach the gospel and invite people to come forward to ask Jesus to be their saviour and pray together. The inquirers were often given a copy of the Gospel of John or a Bible study booklet. In Moscow, in 1992, one-quarter of the 155,000 people in Graham's audience went forward at his call. During his crusades, he has frequently used the altar call song, \"Just As I Am\".\n\nOver 58 years, Billy Graham reached more than 210 million people (face to face and by satellite feeds) in over 185 countries and territories on six continents. The longest Graham's evangelistic crusade took place in New York City in Madison Square Garden in 1957, which lasted 16 weeks. The largest audience in the history of Graham's ministry assembled at Yoido Plaza in Seoul in South Korea in 1973 (1.1 million people).\n\nGraham's revival meetings were most commonly called \"crusades\", and were billed as such for decades, but Graham himself began calling them \"missions\" after the September 11 attacks due to a potentially offensive connotation of the word \"crusade\" among Muslims.\n\nBilly Graham's son, Franklin Graham, has continued his father's evangelist mission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29482207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29482207", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Cape Verde", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Cape Verde\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Cape Verde is composed only of a Latin hierarchy, comprising two exempt dioceses, which depend directly on the Hole See, not parttaking in any Ecclesiastical province. As this warrants no national Episcopal Conference, the episcopate of (ex-Portuguese) Cape Verde sits in the West African (francophone & lusophone) transnational \"Conférence des Evêques du Sénégal, de la Mauritanie, du Cap-Vert et de Guinée-Bissau\" with Senegal, Mauretania and Guinea-Bissau (all ex-French).\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or other non-provincial jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees. All defunct jurisdictions have current successor sees.\n\nThere formally is an Apostolic Nunciature (papal diplomatic representation at embassy-level) to Cape Verde, but it is vested in the Apostolic Nunciature to Senegal, in its capital Dakar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18533565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533565", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Belgian Congo, Zaire; also known as Congo-Kinshasa) is composed only of a Latin hierarchy, united in the national Episcopal Conference of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (French \"Conférence Episcopale Nationale du Congo (CENCO) \"), comprising six ecclesiastical provinces, each under a Metropolitan Archbishop, and a total of 41 suffragan dioceses, each under a bishop.\n\nThere are no Eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or other exempt jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees. The only defunct jurisdiction without proper current successor see, Diocese of Bikoro, is nevertheless preserved in its heir Mbandaka-Bikoro's title. \n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature to Democratic Republic of Congo as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level), in the national capital Kinshasa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50021144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50021144", "title": "List of religious sites in Wayanad", "text": "List of religious sites in Wayanad\n\nThis is a list of religious places in Wayanad, a district in Kerala, India.\n\n"}
{"id": "1981495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1981495", "title": "Matthew 3:17", "text": "Matthew 3:17\n\nMatthew 3:17 is the seventeenth, and final, verse of the third chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. Jesus has just been baptized by John the Baptist and in this verse God announces that Jesus is his son.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibRef Matthew 3:17\n\nThis verse ends the baptism scene. The voice is generally presumed to be that of God the Father. This is one of only two times in the Gospel of Matthew where God intervenes directly, the other being . This is in contrast to most of the Old Testament where God's direct actions occur regularly. Hill notes that the word \"beloved\" can be interpreted as meaning \"only\". The entire message is often seen as a reference to . There is also a possible link to , which also speaks of a beloved of whom God is pleased. Matthew uses this verse at , and it is translated in the same manner as it is here. There are also possible links to and .\n\nJesus' divine status was earlier implied at , but it does not become known to those around him until much later in the narrative. There is thus a debate over whether the voice in this verse was public pronouncement. In Luke the baptism occurs in front of a large crowd, but he and Mark both make the announcement seem private by having the message read \"you are my son.\" Matthew's \"this is my son\" makes it seem as though all present were addressed. In Matthew no crowds are mentioned, and only Jesus and John are noted as being at the Jordan. The gospel is thus internally consistent, but is somewhat difficult to reconcile with the other two synoptics.\n\nThis verse, when combined with the one before it, is seen by many Christians as one of the most trinitarian passages in the entire New Testament but some disagree. already has the Holy Ghost present in the form of a dove. This verse does not clearly distinguish it as a distinct entity, the voice is assumed to be God, the heavenly father, who makes explicit reference to Jesus as his son.\n\n"}
{"id": "2591524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2591524", "title": "Max Théon", "text": "Max Théon\n\nMax Théon (17 November 1848 – 4 March 1927) perhaps born Louis-Maximilian Bimstein, was a Polish Jewish Kabbalist and Occultist. In London while still a young man, he inspired The Hermetic Brotherhood of Luxor in 1884, but seemed to have little to do with the day-to-day running of the organisation, or indeed its actual teachings (Chanel \"et al.\", \"Hermetic Brotherhood of Luxor\").\n\nThere is some dispute over whether Théon taught Blavatsky at some stage; the Mother in The Agenda says he did, Chanel et al. considers this unlikely, while K. Paul Johnson speculates in \"The Masters Revealed\" that the Theosophical\" adept\" Tuitit Bey might be based on Théon. The Hermetic Brotherhood of Luxor claimed to have originated in Egypt in 1870 and been brought to England by Théon in 1884.\n\nIn 1885 Théon married Mary Chrystine Woodroffe Ware (Madame Alma Théon), and the following year the couple moved to Paris. In December 1887, the Théons left France for Algiers, where they were later joined by Alma Théon's friend Augusta Roife (Miss Teresa), and acquired a large estate in Zarif, a suburb of Tlemcen, Algeria. However Théon would still go on frequent visits to Paris.\n\nThéon gathered a number of students, including Louis Themanlys and Charles Barlet, and they established the \"Cosmic Movement\". This was based on material, called the Cosmic Tradition, received or perhaps channelled by T Théon's wife. They established the journal \"Cosmic Review\", for the \"study and re-establishment of the original Tradition\". Théon stated that his wife Alma was the moving spirit behind this idea, and without her the Tradition and the cosmic philosophy would never have come about.\n\nLouis was a friend of Matteo Alfassa, the brother of Mirra Alfassa (who would later associate with Sri Aurobindo and become The Mother), and in 1905 or 1906 Mirra travelled to Tlemcen to study occultism under Théon (Sujata Nahar, \"Mirra the Occultist\"). The Mother mentions that Sri Aurobindo and Théon had independently and at the same time arrived at some similar conclusions about evolution of human consciousness without having met each other. The Mother's design of Sri Aurobindo's symbol is very similar to that of Théon's, with only small changes in the proportions of the central square (\"Mother's Agenda\", vol 3, p. 454, dated December 15, 1962).\n\nThe death of his wife in 1908 was a huge blow to Théon, from which he never really recovered. He fell into a deep depression, and cancelled the Cosmic Movement. During this time he was cared for by his followers. He recovered somewhat but never retained his former status. Théon died at Tlemcen on 4 March 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2269697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2269697", "title": "Mediumship", "text": "Mediumship\n\nMediumship is the practice of purportedly mediating communication between spirits of the dead and living human beings. Practitioners are known as \"mediums.\" There are different types of mediumship, including spirit and ouija.\n\nHumans have been fascinated with contacting the dead since the beginning of human existence. Cave paintings by indigenous Australians date back 28,000 years, some depicting skulls, bones, spirits and the afterlife. Other cave paintings in Indonesia date back a further 10,000 years.\nMediumship gained popularity during the nineteenth century, when ouija boards were used by the upper classes as a source of entertainment. Investigations during this period revealed widespread fraud—with some practitioners employing techniques used by stage magicians—and the practice began to lose credibility. Fraud is still rife in the medium/psychic industry, with cases of deception and trickery being discovered to this day.\n\nScientific researchers have attempted to ascertain the validity of claims of mediumship. An experiment undertaken by the British Psychological Society led to the conclusion that the test subjects demonstrated no mediumistic ability.\n\nSeveral different variants of mediumship exist; arguably the best-known forms involve a spirit purportedly taking control of a medium's voice and using it to relay a message, or where the medium simply \"hears\" the message and passes it on. Other forms involve materializations of the spirit or the presence of a voice, and telekinetic activity.\n\nThe practice is associated with several religious-belief systems such as Vodun, Spiritualism, Spiritism, Candomblé, Voodoo, Umbanda and some New Age groups.\n\nIn Spiritism and Spiritualism the medium has the role of an intermediary between the world of the living and the world of spirit. Mediums claim that they can listen to and relay messages from spirits, or that they can allow a spirit to control their body and speak through it directly or by using automatic writing or drawing.\n\nSpiritualists classify types of mediumship into two main categories: \"mental\" and \"physical\":\n\nDuring seances, mediums are said to go into trances, varying from light to deep, that permit spirits to control their minds.\n\nChanneling can be seen as the modern form of the old mediumship, where the \"channel\" (or channeller) purportedly receives messages from \"teaching-spirit\", an \"Ascended master\", from God, or from an angelic entity, but essentially through the filter of his own waking consciousness (or \"Higher Self\").\n\nAttempts to communicate with the dead and other living human beings, aka spirits, have been documented back to early human history. The story of the Witch of Endor (In the most recent edition of the NIV witch is rendered medium in the passage) tells of one who raised the spirit of the deceased prophet Samuel to allow the Hebrew king Saul to question his former mentor about an upcoming battle, as related in the Books of Samuel in the Jewish Tanakh (the basis of the Old Testament).\n\nMediumship became quite popular in the 19th-century United States and the United Kingdom after the rise of Spiritualism as a religious movement. Modern Spiritualism is said to date from practices and lectures of the Fox sisters in New York State in 1848. The trance mediums Paschal Beverly Randolph and Emma Hardinge Britten were among the most celebrated lecturers and authors on the subject in the mid-19th century. Allan Kardec coined the term Spiritism around 1860. Kardec claimed that conversations with spirits by selected mediums were the basis of his \"The Spirits' Book\" and later, his five-book collection, \"Spiritist Codification\".\n\nSome scientists of the period who investigated spiritualism also became converts. They included chemist Robert Hare, physicist William Crookes (1832–1919) and evolutionary biologist Alfred Russel Wallace (1823–1913). Nobel laureate Pierre Curie took a very serious scientific interest in the work of medium Eusapia Palladino. Other prominent adherents included journalist and pacifist William T. Stead (1849–1912) and physician and author Arthur Conan Doyle (1859–1930).\n\nAfter the exposure of the fraudulent use of stage magic tricks by physical mediums such as the Davenport Brothers and the Bangs Sisters, mediumship fell into disrepute. However, the religion and its beliefs continue in spite of this, with physical mediumship and seances falling out of practice and platform mediumship coming to the fore.\n\nIn the late 1920s and early 1930s there were around one quarter of a million practising Spiritualists and some two thousand Spiritualist societies in the UK in addition to flourishing microcultures of platform mediumship and 'home circles'. Spiritualism continues to be practiced, primarily through various denominational spiritualist churches in the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, over 340 spiritualist churches and centres open their doors to the public and free demonstrations of mediumship are regularly performed.\n\nIn 1958, the English-born Spiritualist C. Dorreen Phillips wrote of her experiences with a medium at Camp Chesterfield, Indiana: \"In Rev. James Laughton's séances there are many Indians. They are very noisy and appear to have great power. [...] The little guides, or doorkeepers, are usually Indian boys and girls [who act] as messengers who help to locate the spirit friends who wish to speak with you.\"\n\nA spirit who uses a medium to manipulate psychic \"energy\" or \"energy systems.\"\n\nIn old-line Spiritualism, a portion of the services, generally toward the end, is given over to demonstrations of mediumship through contact with the spirits of the dead. A typical example of this way of describing a mediumistic church service is found in the 1958 autobiography of C. Dorreen Phillips. She writes of the worship services at the Spiritualist Camp Chesterfield in Chesterfield, Indiana: \"Services are held each afternoon, consisting of hymns, a lecture on philosophy, and demonstrations of mediumship.\"\n\nToday \"demonstration of mediumship\" is part of the church service at all churches affiliated with the National Spiritualist Association of Churches (NSAC) and the Spiritualists' National Union (SNU). Demonstration links to NSAC's Declaration of Principal #9. \"We affirm that the precepts of Prophecy and Healing are Divine attributes proven through Mediumship.\"\n\n\"Mental mediumship\" is communication of spirits with a medium by telepathy. The medium mentally \"hears\" (clairaudience), \"sees\" (clairvoyance), and/or feels (clairsentience) messages from spirits. Directly or with the help of a spirit guide, the medium passes the information on to the message's recipient(s). When a medium is doing a \"reading\" for a particular person, that person is known as the \"sitter\".\n\n\"Trance mediumship\" is often seen as a form of mental mediumship. Most trance mediums remain conscious during a communication period, wherein a spirit uses the medium's mind to communicate. The spirit or spirits using the medium's mind influences the mind with the thoughts being conveyed. The medium allows the ego to step aside for the message to be delivered. At the same time, one has awareness of the thoughts coming through and may even influence the message with one's own bias. Such a trance is not to be confused with sleepwalking, as the patterns are entirely different. Castillo (1995) states,\nIn the 1860s and 1870s, trance mediums were very popular. Spiritualism generally attracted female adherents, many who had strong interests in social justice. Many trance mediums delivered passionate speeches on abolitionism, temperance, and women's suffrage. Scholars have described Leonora Piper as one of the most famous trance mediums in the history of Spiritualism.\n\nIn the typical deep trance, the medium may not have clear recall of all the messages conveyed while in an altered state; such people generally work with an assistant. That person selectively wrote down or otherwise recorded the medium's words. Rarely did the assistant record the responding words of the sitter and other attendants. An example of this kind of relationship can be found in the early 20th century collaboration between the trance medium Mrs. Cecil M. Cook of the William T. Stead Memorial Center in Chicago (a religious body incorporated under the statutes of the State of Illinois) and the journalist Lloyd Kenyon Jones. The latter was a non-medium Spiritualist who transcribed Cook's messages in shorthand. He edited them for publication in book and pamphlet form.\n\nPhysical mediumship is defined as manipulation of energies and energy systems by spirits. This type of mediumship is claimed to involve perceptible manifestations, such as loud raps and noises, voices, materialized objects, apports, materialized spirit bodies, or body parts such as hands, legs and feet. The medium is used as a source of power for such spirit manifestations. By some accounts, this was achieved by using the energy or ectoplasm released by a medium, see spirit photography. The last physical medium to be tested by a committee from \"Scientific American\" was Mina Crandon in 1924.\n\nMost physical mediumship is presented in a darkened or dimly lit room. Most physical mediums make use of a traditional array of tools and appurtenances, including spirit trumpets, spirit cabinets, and levitation tables.\nDirect voice communication is the claim that spirits speak independently of the medium, who facilitates the phenomenon rather than produces it. The role of the medium is to make the connection between the physical and spirit worlds. Trumpets are often utilised to amplify the signal, and directed voice mediums are sometimes known as \"trumpet mediums\". This form of mediumship also permits the medium to participate in the discourse during séances, since the medium's voice is not required by the spirit to communicate. Leslie Flint was one of the best known exponents of this form of mediumship.\n\nIn the later half of the 20th century, Western mediumship developed in two different ways. One type involved clairaudience or sensitives who hear spirit, and then relay what they hear to their clients. The other incarnation of non-physical mediumship is a form of channeling in which the channeler goes into a trance, or \"leaves their body\", allowing a spirit entity to borrow their body, who then speaks through them. When in a trance the medium appears to come under the control of the spirit of a departed soul, sometimes entering into a cataleptic state, although modern channelers may not. Some channelers open the eyes when channeling, and remain able to walk and behave normally. The rhythm and the intonation of the voice may also change completely.\n\nA widely known channeler of this variety is J. Z. Knight, who claims to channel the spirit of Ramtha, a 30 thousand-year-old man. Others purport to channel spirits from \"future dimensions\", ascended masters, or, in the case of the trance mediums of the Brahma Kumaris, God. Other notable channels are Jane Roberts for Seth, Esther Hicks for Abraham, and Carla L. Rueckert for Ra.\n\nSenses used by mental mediums are sometimes defined differently from in other paranormal fields. A medium is said to have psychic abilities but not all psychics function as mediums. The term \"clairvoyance\", for instance, may include seeing spirit and visions instilled by the spirit world. The Parapsychological Association defines \"clairvoyance\" as information derived directly from an external physical source.\n\nSpiritualists believe that phenomena produced by mediums (both mental and physical mediumship) are the result of external spirit agencies. The psychical researcher Thomson Jay Hudson in \"The Law of Psychic Phenomena\" (1892) and Théodore Flournoy in his book \"Spiritism and Psychology\" (1911) wrote that all kinds of mediumship could be explained by suggestion and telepathy from the medium and that there was no evidence for the spirit hypothesis. The idea of mediumship being explained by telepathy was later merged into the \"super-ESP\" hypothesis of mediumship which is currently advocated by some parapsychologists.\n\nIn their book \"How to Think About Weird Things: Critical Thinking for a New Age\", authors Theodore Schick and Lewis Vaughn have noted that the spiritualist and ESP hypothesis of mediumship \"has yielded no novel predictions, assumes unknown entities or forces, and conflicts with available scientific evidence.\"\n\nScientists who study anomalistic psychology consider mediumship to be the result of fraud and psychological factors. Research from psychology for over a hundred years suggests that where there is not fraud, mediumship and Spiritualist practices can be explained by hypnotism, magical thinking and suggestion. Trance mediumship, which according to Spiritualists is caused by discarnate spirits speaking through the medium, can be explained by dissociative identity disorder.\n\nIllusionists, such as Joseph Rinn have staged 'fake' séances in which the sitters have claimed to have observed genuine supernatural phenomena. Albert Moll studied the psychology of séance sitters. According to (Wolffram, 2012) \"[Moll] argued that the hypnotic atmosphere of the darkened séance room and the suggestive effect of the experimenters' social and scientific prestige could be used to explain why seemingly rational people vouchsafed occult phenomena.\" The psychologists Leonard Zusne and Warren Jones in their book \"Anomalistic Psychology: A Study of Magical Thinking\" (1989) wrote that spirits controls are the \"products of the medium's own psychological dynamics.\"\n\nA fraudulent medium may obtain information about their sitters by secretly eavesdropping on sitter's conversations or searching telephone directories, the internet and newspapers before the sittings. A technique called cold reading can also be used to obtain information from the sitter's behavior, clothing, posture, and jewellery.\n\nThe psychologist Richard Wiseman has written:\nCold reading also explains why psychics have consistently failed scientific tests of their powers. By isolating them from their clients, psychics are unable to pick up information from the way those clients dress or behave. By presenting all of the volunteers involved in the test with all of the readings, they are prevented from attributing meaning to their own reading, and therefore can't identify it from readings made for others. As a result, the type of highly successful hit rate that psychics enjoy on a daily basis comes crashing down and the truth emerges – their success depends on a fascinating application of psychology and not the existence of paranormal abilities.\n\nIn a series of fake séance experiments (Wiseman \"et al\". 2003) paranormal believers and disbelievers were suggested by an actor that a table was levitating when, in fact, it remained stationary. After the seance, approximately one third of the participants incorrectly reported that the table had moved. The results showed a greater percentage of believers reporting that the table had moved. In another experiment the believers had also reported that a handbell had moved when it had remained stationary and expressed their belief that the fake séances contained genuine paranormal phenomena. The experiments strongly supported the notion that in the séance room, believers are more suggestible than disbelievers for suggestions that are consistent with their belief in paranormal phenomena.\n\nFrom its earliest beginnings to contemporary times, mediumship practices have had many instances of fraud and trickery. Séances take place in darkness so the poor lighting conditions can become an easy opportunity for fraud. Physical mediumship that has been investigated by scientists has been discovered to be the result of deception and trickery. Ectoplasm, a supposed paranormal substance, was revealed to have been made from cheesecloth, butter, muslin, and cloth. Mediums would also stick cut-out faces from magazines and newspapers onto cloth or on other props and use plastic dolls in their séances to pretend to their audiences spirits were contacting them. Lewis Spence in his book \"An Encyclopaedia of Occultism\" (1960) wrote:\n\nA very large part is played by fraud in spiritualistic practices, both in the physical and psychical, or automatic, phenomena, but especially in the former. The frequency with which mediums have been convicted of fraud has, indeed, induced many people to abandon the study of psychical research, judging the whole bulk of the phenomena to be fraudulently produced.\nIn Britain, the Society for Psychical Research has investigated mediumship phenomena. Critical SPR investigations into purported mediums and the exposure of fake mediums has led to a number of resignations by Spiritualist members. On the subject of fraud in mediumship Paul Kurtz wrote:\n\nNo doubt a great importance in the paranormal field is the problem of fraud. The field of psychic research and spiritualism has been so notoriously full of charlatans, such as the Fox sisters and Eusapia Palladino–individuals who claim to have special power and gifts but who are actually conjurers who have hoodwinked scientists and the public as well–that we have to be especially cautious about claims made on their behalf.\n\nMagicians have a long history of exposing the fraudulent methods of mediumship. Early debunkers included Chung Ling Soo, Henry Evans and Julien Proskauer. Later magicians to reveal fraud were Joseph Dunninger, Harry Houdini and Joseph Rinn. Rose Mackenberg, a private investigator who worked with Houdini during the 1920s, was among the most prominent debunkers of psychic fraud during the mid-20th century.\n\nMany 19th century mediums were discovered to be engaged in fraud. While advocates of mediumship claim that their experiences are genuine, the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" article on spiritualism notes in reference to a case in the 19th century that \"...one by one, the Spiritualist mediums were discovered to be engaged in fraud, sometimes employing the techniques of stage magicians in their attempts to convince people of their clairvoyant powers.\" The article also notes that \"the exposure of widespread fraud within the spiritualist movement severely damaged its reputation and pushed it to the fringes of society in the United States.\"\n\nAt a séance in the house of the solicitor John Snaith Rymer in Ealing in July 1855, a sitter Frederick Merrifield observed that a \"spirit-hand\" was a false limb attached on the end of the medium Daniel Dunglas Home's arm. Merrifield also claimed to have observed Home use his foot in the séance room.\n\nThe poet Robert Browning and his wife Elizabeth attended a séance on 23, July 1855 in Ealing with the Rymers. During the séance a spirit face materialized which Home claimed was the son of Browning who had died in infancy. Browning seized the \"materialization\" and discovered it to be the bare foot of Home. To make the deception worse, Browning had never lost a son in infancy. Browning's son Robert in a letter to \"The Times\", December 5, 1902 referred to the incident \"Home was detected in a vulgar fraud.\" The researchers Joseph McCabe and Trevor H. Hall exposed the \"levitation\" of Home as nothing more than his moving across a connecting ledge between two iron balconies.\n\nThe psychologist and psychical researcher Stanley LeFevre Krebs had exposed the Bangs Sisters as frauds. During a séance he employed a hidden mirror and caught them tampering with a letter in an envelope and writing a reply in it under the table which they would pretend a spirit had written. The British materialization medium Rosina Mary Showers was caught in many fraudulent séances throughout her career. In 1874 during a séance with Edward William Cox a sitter looked into the cabinet and seized the spirit, the headdress fell off and was revealed to be Showers.\n\nIn a series of experiments in London at the house of William Crookes in February 1875, the medium Anna Eva Fay managed to fool Crookes into believing she had genuine psychic powers. Fay later confessed to her fraud and revealed the tricks she had used. Frank Herne a British medium who formed a partnership with the medium Charles Williams was repeatedly exposed in fraudulent materialization séances. In 1875, he was caught pretending to be a spirit during a séance in Liverpool and was found \"clothed in about two yards of stiffened muslin, wound round his head and hanging down as far as his thigh.\" Florence Cook had been \"trained in the arts of the séance\" by Herne and was repeatedly exposed as a fraudulent medium.\n\nThe medium Henry Slade was caught in fraud many times throughout his career. In a séance in 1876 in London Ray Lankester and Bryan Donkin snatched his slate before the \"spirit\" message was supposed to be written, and found the writing already there. Slade also played an accordion with one hand under the table and claimed spirits would play it. The magician Chung Ling Soo revealed how Slade had performed the trick.\nThe British medium Francis Ward Monck was investigated by psychical researchers and discovered to be a fraud. On November 3, 1876 during the séance a sitter demanded that Monck be searched. Monck ran from the room, locked himself in another room and escaped out of a window. A pair of stuffed gloves was found in his room, as well as cheesecloth, reaching rods and other fraudulent devices in his luggage. After a trial Monck was convicted for his fraudulent mediumship and was sentenced to three months in prison.\n\nIn 1876, William Eglinton was exposed as a fraud when the psychical researcher Thomas Colley seized a \"spirit\" materialization in his séance and cut off a portion of its cloak. It was discovered that the cut piece matched a cloth found in Eglinton's suitcase. Colley also pulled the beard off the materialization and it was revealed to be a fake, the same as another one found in the suitcase of Eglinton. In 1880 in a séance a spirit named \"Yohlande\" materialized, a sitter grabbed it and was revealed to be the medium Mme. d'Esperance herself.\n\nIn September 1878 the British medium Charles Williams and his fellow-medium at the time, A. Rita, were detected in trickery at Amsterdam. During the séance a materialized spirit was seized and found to be Rita and a bottle of phosphorus oil, muslin and a false beard were found amongst the two mediums. In 1882 C. E. Wood was exposed in a séance in Peterborough. Her Indian spirit control \"Pocka\" was found to be the medium on her knees, covered in muslin.\n\nIn 1880 the American stage mentalist Washington Irving Bishop published a book revealing how mediums would use secret codes as the trick for their clairvoyant readings. The Seybert Commission was a group of faculty at the University of Pennsylvania who in 1884–1887 exposed fraudulent mediums such as Pierre L. O. A. Keeler and Henry Slade. The Fox sisters confessed to fraud in 1888. Margaret Fox revealed that she and her sister had produced the \"spirit\" rappings by cracking their toe joints.\n\nIn 1891 at a public séance with twenty sitters the medium Cecil Husk was caught leaning over a table pretending to be a spirit by covering his face with phosphor material. The magician Will Goldston also exposed the fraud mediumship of Husk. In a séance Goldston attended a pale face materialization appeared in the room. Goldston wrote \"I saw at once that it was a gauze mask, and that the moustache attached to it was loose at one side through lack of gum. I pulled at the mask. It came away, revealing the face of Husk.\" The British materialization medium Annie Fairlamb Mellon was exposed as a fraud on October 12, 1894. During the séance a sitter seized the materialized spirit, and found it to be the Mellon on her knees with white muslin on her head and shoulders.\n\nThe magician Samri Baldwin exposed the tricks of the Davenport brothers in his book \"The Secrets of Mahatma Land Explained\" (1895). The medium Swami Laura Horos was convicted of fraud several times and was tried for rape and fraud in London in 1901. She was described by the magician Harry Houdini as \"one of the most extraordinary fake mediums and mystery swindlers the world has ever known\".\n\nIn the late 19th century the fraudulent methods of spirit photographers such as David Duguid and Edward Wyllie were revealed by psychical researchers. Hereward Carrington documented various methods (with diagrams) how the medium would manipulate the plates before, during, and after the séance to produce spirit forms. The ectoplasm materializations of the French medium Eva Carrière were exposed as fraudulent. The fake ectoplasm of Carrière was made of cut-out paper faces from newspapers and magazines on which fold marks could sometimes be seen from the photographs. Cut out faces that she used included Woodrow Wilson, King Ferdinand of Bulgaria, French president Raymond Poincaré and the actress Mona Delza.\n\nThe séance trick of the Eddy Brothers was revealed by the magician Chung Ling Soo in 1898. The brothers utilized a fake hand made of lead, and with their hands free from control would play musical instruments and move objects in the séance room. The physiologist Ivor Lloyd Tuckett examined a case of spirit photography that W. T. Stead had claimed was genuine. Stead visited a photographer who had produced a photograph of him with deceased soldier known as \"Piet Botha\". Stead claimed that the photographer could not have come across any information about Piet Botha, however, Tuckett discovered that an article in 1899 had been published on Pietrus Botha in a weekly magazine with a portrait and personal details.\n\nThe trance medium Leonora Piper was investigated by psychical researchers and psychologists in the late 19th and early 20th century. In an experiment to test if Piper's \"spirit\" controls were purely fictitious the psychologist G. Stanley Hall invented a niece called Bessie Beals and asked Piper's 'control' to get in touch with it. Bessie appeared, answered questions and accepted Hall as her uncle. The psychologist Joseph Jastrow wrote that Piper pretended to be controlled by spirits and fell into simple and logical traps from her comments. Science writer Martin Gardner concluded Piper was a cold reader that would \"fish\" for information from her séance sitters. The physiologist Ivor Lloyd Tuckett who examined Piper's mediumship in detail wrote it could be explained by \"muscle-reading, fishing, guessing, hints obtained in the sitting, knowledge surreptitiously obtained, knowledge acquired in the interval between sittings and lastly, facts already within Mrs. Piper's knowledge.\"\n\nIn March 1902 in Berlin, police officers interrupted a séance of the German apport medium Frau Anna Rothe. Her hands were grabbed and she was wrestled to the ground. A female police assistant physically examined Rothe and discovered 157 flowers as well as oranges and lemons hidden in her petticoat. She was arrested and charged with fraud. Another apport medium Hilda Lewis known as the \"flower medium\" confessed to fraud.\n\nThe psychical researchers W. W. Baggally and Everard Feilding exposed the British materialization medium Christopher Chambers as a fraud in 1905. A false moustache was discovered in the séance room which he used to fabricate the spirit materializations. The British medium Charles Eldred was exposed as a fraud in 1906. Eldred would sit in a chair in a curtained off area in the room known as a \"séance cabinet\". Various spirit figures would emerge from the cabinet and move around the séance room, however, it was discovered that the chair had a secret compartment that contained beards, cloths, masks, and wigs that Eldred would dress up in to fake the spirits.\n\nThe spirit photographer William Hope tricked William Crookes with a fake spirit photograph of his wife in 1906. Oliver Lodge revealed there had been obvious signs of double exposure, the picture of Lady Crookes had been copied from a wedding anniversary photograph, however, Crookes was a convinced spiritualist and claimed it was genuine evidence for spirit photography.\n\nIn 1907, Hereward Carrington exposed the tricks of fraudulent mediums such as those used in slate-writing, table-turning, trumpet mediumship, materializations, sealed-letter reading and spirit photography. between 1908 and 1914 the Italian medium Francesco Carancini was investigated by psychical researchers and they discovered that he used phosphorus matches to produce \"spirit lights\" and with a freed hand would move objects in the séance room.\n\nIn 1908 at a hotel in Naples, the psychical researchers W. W. Baggally, Hereward Carrington and Everard Feilding attended a series of séances with Eusapia Palladino. In a report they claimed that genuine supernatural activity had occurred in the séances, this report became known as the Feilding report. In 1910, Feilding returned to Naples, but this time accompanied with the magician William S. Marriott. Unlike the 1908 sittings, Feilding and Marriott detected her cheating, just as she had done in America. Her deceptions were obvious. Palladino evaded control and was caught moving objects with her foot, shaking the curtain with her hands, moving the cabinet table with her elbow and touching the séance sitters. Milbourne Christopher wrote regarding the exposure \"when one knows how a feat can be done and what to look for, only the most skillful performer can maintain the illusion in the face of such informed scrutiny.\"\nIn 1910 at a séance in Grenoble, France the apport medium Charles Bailey produced two live birds in the séance room. Bailey was unaware that the dealer he had bought the birds from was present in the séance and he was exposed as a fraud. The psychical researcher Eric Dingwall observed the medium Bert Reese in New York and claimed to have discovered his billet reading tricks. The most detailed account at exposing his tricks (with diagrams) was by the magician Theodore Annemann.\n\nThe Polish medium Stanisława Tomczyk's levitation of a glass beaker was exposed and replicated in 1910 by the magician William S. Marriott by means of a hidden thread. The Italian medium Lucia Sordi was exposed in 1911, she was bound to a chair by psychical researchers but would free herself during her séances. The tricks of another Italian medium Linda Gazzera were revealed in the same year, she would release her hands and feet from control in her séances and use them. Gazzera would not permit anyone to search her before a séance sitting, as she concealed muslin and other objects in her hair.\n\nIn 1917, Edward Clodd analyzed the mediumship of the trance medium Gladys Osborne Leonard and came to the conclusion that Leonard had known her séance sitters before she had held the séances, and could have easily obtained such information by natural means. The British psychiatrist Charles Arthur Mercier wrote in his book \"Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge\" (1917) that Oliver Lodge had been duped into believing mediumship by trickery and his spiritualist views were based on assumptions and not scientific evidence.\n\nIn 1918, Joseph Jastrow wrote about the tricks of Eusapia Palladino who was an expert at freeing her hands and feet from the control in the séance room. In the séance room Palladino would move curtains from a distance by releasing a jet of air from a rubber bulb that she had in her hand. According to the psychical researcher Harry Price \"Her tricks were usually childish: long hairs attached to small objects in order to produce 'telekinetic movements'; the gradual substitution of one hand for two when being controlled by sitters; the production of 'phenomena' with a foot which had been surreptitiously removed from its shoe and so on.\"\n\nIn the 1920s the British medium Charles Albert Beare duped the Spiritualist organization the Temple of Light into believing he had genuine mediumship powers. In 1931 Beare published a confession in the newspaper \"Daily Express\". In the confession he stated \"I have deceived hundreds of people…. I have been guilty of fraud and deception in spiritualistic practices by pretending that I was controlled by a spirit guide…. I am frankly and whole-heartedly sorry that I have allowed myself to deceive people.\" Due to the exposure of William Hope and other fraudulent spiritualists, Arthur Conan Doyle in the 1920s led a mass resignation of eighty-four members of the Society for Psychical Research, as they believed the Society was opposed to spiritualism.\n\nBetween 8 November and 31 December 1920 Gustav Geley of the Institute Metapsychique International attended fourteen séances with the medium Franek Kluski in Paris. A bowl of hot paraffin was placed in the room and according to Kluski spirits dipped their limbs into the paraffin and then into a bath of water to materialize. Three other series of séances were held in Warsaw in Kluski's own apartment, these took place over a period of three years. Kluski was not searched in any of the séances. Photographs of the molds were obtained during the four series of experiments and were published by Geley in 1924. Harry Houdini replicated the Kluski materialization moulds by using his hands and a bowl of hot paraffin.\n\nThe British direct-voice medium Frederick Tansley Munnings was exposed as a fraud when one of his séance sitters turned the lights on which revealed him to be holding a trumpet by means of a telescopic extension piece and using an angle piece to change the auditory effect of his voice. Richard Hodgson held six sittings with the medium Rosina Thompson and came to the conclusion she was a fraud as he discovered Thompson had access to documents and information about her séance sitters.\n\nOn 4 February 1922, Harry Price with James Seymour, Eric Dingwall and William S. Marriott had proven the spirit photographer William Hope was a fraud during tests at the British College of Psychic Science. Price wrote in his SPR report \"William Hope has been found guilty of deliberately substituting his own plates for those of a sitter... It implies that the medium brings to the sitting a duplicate slide and faked plates for fraudulent purposes.\" The medium Kathleen Goligher was investigated by the physicist Edmund Edward Fournier d'Albe. On July 22, 1921 in a séance he observed Goligher holding the table up with her foot. He also discovered that her ectoplasm was made of muslin. During a séance d'Albe observed white muslin between Goligher's feet.\n\nThe Danish medium Einer Nielsen was investigated by a committee from the Kristiania University in Norway, 1922 and discovered in a séance that his ectoplasm was fake. In 1923 the Polish medium Jan Guzyk was exposed as a fraud in a series of séances in Sorbonne in Paris. Guzyk would use his elbows and legs to move objects around the room and touch the sitters. According to Max Dessoir the trick of Guzyk was to use his \"foot for psychic touches and sounds\".\n\nThe psychical researchers Eric Dingwall and Harry Price re-published an anonymous work written by a former medium entitled \"Revelations of a Spirit Medium\" (1922) which exposed the tricks of mediumship and the fraudulent methods of producing \"spirit hands\". Originally all the copies of the book were bought up by spiritualists and deliberately destroyed. In 1923, the magician Carlos María de Heredia revealed how fake spirit hands could be made by using a rubber glove, paraffin and a jar of cold water.\n\nThe Hungarian medium Ladislas Lasslo confessed that all of his spirit materializations were fraudulent in 1924. A séance sitter was also found to be working as a confederate for Lasslo.\n\nThe Austrian medium Rudi Schneider was investigated in 1924 by the physicists Stefan Meyer and Karl Przibram. They caught Rudi freeing his arm in a series of séances. Rudi claimed he could levitate objects but according to Harry Price a photograph taken on April 28, 1932 showed that Rudi had managed to free his arm to move a handkerchief from the table. According to Warren Jay Vinton, Schneider was an expert at freeing himself from control in the séance room. Oliver Gatty and Theodore Besterman who tested Schneider concluded that in their tests there was \"no good evidence that Rudi Schneider possesses supernormal powers.\"\n\nThe spiritualists Arthur Conan Doyle and W. T. Stead were duped into believing Julius and Agnes Zancig had genuine psychic powers. Both Doyle and Stead wrote that the Zancigs performed telepathy. In 1924 Julius and Agnes Zancig confessed that their mind reading act was a trick and published the secret code and all the details of the trick method they had used under the title of \"Our Secrets!!\" in a London Newspaper.\n\nIn 1925, Samuel Soal claimed to have taken part in a series of séances with the medium Blanche Cooper who contacted the spirit of a soldier Gordon Davis and revealed the house that he had lived in. Researchers later discovered fraud as the séances had taken place in 1922, not 1925. The magician and paranormal investigator Bob Couttie revealed that Davis was alive, Soal lived close to him and had altered the records of the sittings after checking out the house. Soal's co-workers knew that he had fiddled the results but were kept quiet with threats of libel suits.\n\nMina Crandon claimed to materialize a \"spirit hand\", but when examined by biologists the hand was discovered to be made from a piece of carved animal liver. The German apport medium Heinrich Melzer was discovered to be a fraud in 1926. In a séance psychical researchers found that Melzer had small stones attached to the back of his ears by flesh coloured tape. Psychical researchers who investigated the mediumship of Maria Silbert revealed that she used her feet and toes to move objects in the séance room.\n\nIn 1930 the Polish medium Stanisława P. was tested at the Institut Metapsychique in Paris. French psychical researcher Eugéne Osty suspected in the séance that Stanislawa had freed her hand from control. Secret flashlight photographs that were taken revealed that her hand was free and she had moved objects on the séance table. It was claimed by spiritualists that during a series of séances in 1930 the medium Eileen J. Garrett channeled secret information from the spirit of the Lieutenant Herbert Carmichael Irwin who had died in the R101 crash a few days before the séance. Researcher Melvin Harris who studied the case wrote that the information described in Garrett's séances were \"either commonplace, easily absorbed bits and pieces, or plain gobblede-gook. The so-called secret information just doesn't exist.\"\nIn the 1930s Harry Price (director of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research) had investigated the medium Helen Duncan and had her perform a number of test séances. She was suspected of swallowing cheesecloth which was then regurgitated as \"ectoplasm\". Price had proven through analysis of a sample of ectoplasm produced by Duncan, that it was made of cheesecloth. Helen Duncan would also use a doll made of a painted papier-mâché mask draped in an old sheet which she pretended to her sitters was a spirit. The photographs taken by Thomas Glendenning Hamilton in the 1930s of ectoplasm reveal the substance to be made of tissue paper and magazine cut-outs of people. The famous photograph taken by Hamilton of the medium Mary Ann Marshall depicts tissue paper with a cut out of Arthur Conan Doyle's head from a newspaper. Skeptics have suspected that Hamilton may have been behind the hoax.\n\nPsychologists and researchers who studied Pearl Curran's automatic writings in the 1930s came to the conclusion Patience Worth was a fictitious creation of Curran. In 1931 George Valiantine was exposed as a fraud in the séance room as it was discovered that he produced fraudulent \"spirit\" fingerprints in wax. The \"spirit\" thumbprint that Valiantine claimed belonged to Arthur Conan Doyle was revealed to be the print of his big toe on his right foot. It was also revealed that Valiantine made some of the prints with his elbow.\n\nThe medium Frank Decker was exposed as a fraud in 1932. A magician and séance sitter who called himself M. Taylor presented a mail bag and Decker agreed to lock himself inside it. During the séance objects were moved around the room and it was claimed spirits had released Decker from the bag. It was later discovered to have been a trick as Martin Sunshine, a magic dealer admitted that he sold Decker a trick mail bag, such as stage escapologists use, and had acted as the medium's confederate by pretending to be M. Taylor, a magician. The British medium Estelle Roberts claimed to materialize an Indian spirit guide called \"Red Cloud\". Researcher Melvin Harris who examined some photographs of Red Cloud wrote the face was the same as Roberts and she had dressed up in a feathered war-bonnet.\n\nIn 1936, the psychical researcher Nandor Fodor tested the Hungarian apport medium Lajos Pap in London and during the séance a dead snake appeared. Pap was searched and was found to be wearing a device under his robe, where he had hidden the snake. A photograph taken at a séance in 1937 in London shows the medium Colin Evans \"levitating\" in mid air. He claimed that spirits had lifted him. Evans was later discovered to be a fraud as a cord leading from a device in his hand has indicated that it was himself who triggered the flash-photograph and that all he had done was jump from his chair into the air and pretend he had levitated.\n\nAccording to the magician John Booth the stage mentalist David Devant managed to fool a number of people into believing he had genuine psychic ability who did not realize that his feats were magic tricks. At St. George's Hall, London he performed a fake \"clairvoyant\" act where he would read a message sealed inside an envelope. The spiritualist Oliver Lodge who was present in the audience was duped by the trick and claimed that Devant had used psychic powers. In 1936 Devant in his book \"Secrets of My Magic\" revealed the trick method he had used.\n\nThe physicist Kristian Birkeland exposed the fraud of the direct voice medium Etta Wriedt. Birkeland turned on the lights during a séance, snatched her trumpets and discovered that the \"spirit\" noises were caused by chemical explosions induced by potassium and water and in other cases by lycopodium powder. The British medium Isa Northage claimed to materialize the spirit of a surgeon known as Dr. Reynolds. When photographs taken of Reynolds were analyzed by researchers they discovered that Northage looked like Reynolds with a glued stage beard.\n\nThe magician Julien Proskauer revealed that the levitating trumpet of Jack Webber was a trick. Close examination of photographs reveal Webber to be holding a telescopic reaching rod attached to the trumpet, and sitters in his séances only believed it to have levitated because the room was so dark they could not see the rod. Webber would cover the rod with crepe paper to disguise its real construction.\nIn 1954, the psychical researcher Rudolf Lambert published a report revealing details about a case of fraud that was covered up by many early members of the Institute Metapsychique International (IMI). Lambert who had studied Gustav Geley's files on the medium Eva Carrière discovered photographs depicting fraudulent ectoplasm taken by her companion Juliette Bisson. Various \"materializations\" were artificially attached to Eva's hair by wires. The discovery was never published by Geley. Eugéne Osty (the director of the institute) and members Jean Meyer, Albert von Schrenck-Notzing and Charles Richet all knew about the fraudulent photographs but were firm believers in mediumship phenomena so demanded the scandal be kept secret.\n\nThe fraudulent medium Ronald Edwin confessed he had duped his séance sitters and revealed the fraudulent methods he had used in his book \"Clock Without Hands\" (1955). The psychical researcher Tony Cornell investigated the mediumship of Alec Harris in 1955. During the séance \"spirit\" materializations emerged from a cabinet and walked around the room. Cornell wrote that a stomach rumble, nicotine smelling breath and a pulse gave it away that all the spirit figures were in fact Harris and that he had dressed up as each one behind the cabinet.\n\nThe British medium William Roy earned over £50,000 from his séance sitters. He confessed to fraud in 1958 revealing the microphone and trick-apparatus that he had used. The automatic writings of the Irish medium Geraldine Cummins were analyzed by psychical researchers in the 1960s and they revealed that she worked as a cataloguer at the National Library of Ireland and took information from various books that would appear in her automatic writings about ancient history.\n\nIn 1960, psychic investigator Andrija Puharich and Tom O'Neill, publisher of the Spiritualist magazine \"Psychic Observer\", arranged to film two seances at Camp Chesterfield, Indiana using infrared film, intending to procure scientific proof of spirit materializations. The medium was shown the camera beforehand, and was aware that she was being filmed. However, the film revealed obvious fraud on the part of the medium and her cabinet assistant. The exposé was published in the 10 July 1960 issue of the \"Psychic Observer\".\n\nIn 1966 the son of Bishop Pike committed suicide. After his death, Pike contacted the British medium Ena Twigg for a series of séances and she claimed to have communicated with his son. Although Twigg denied formerly knowing anything about Pike and his son, the magician John Booth discovered that Twigg had already known information about the Pike family before the séances. Twigg had belonged to the same denomination of Bishop Pike, he had preached at a cathedral in Kent and she had known information about him and his deceased son from newspapers.\n\nIn 1970 two psychical researchers investigated the direct-voice medium Leslie Flint and found that all the \"spirit\" voices in his séance sounded exactly like himself and attributed his mediumship to \"second-rate ventriloquism\". The medium Arthur Ford died leaving specific instructions that all of his files should be burned. In 1971 after his death, psychical researchers discovered his files but instead of burning them they were examined and discovered to be filled with obituaries, newspaper articles and other information, which enabled Ford to research his séance sitters backgrounds.\n\nRonald Pearsall in his book \"Table-rappers: The Victorians and the Occult\" (1972) documented how every Victorian medium investigated had been exposed as using trickery, in the book he revealed how mediums would even use acrobatic techniques during séances to convince audiences of spirit presences.\n\nIn 1976, M. Lamar Keene, a medium in Florida and at the Spiritualist Camp Chesterfield in Indiana, confessed to defrauding the public in his book \"The Psychic Mafia\". Keene detailed a multitude of common stage magic techniques utilized by mediums which are supposed to give an appearance of paranormal powers or supernatural involvement.\n\nAfter her death in the 1980s the medium Doris Stokes was accused of fraud, by author and investigator Ian Wilson. Wilson stated that Mrs Stokes planted specific people in her audience and did prior research into her sitters. Rita Goold a physical medium during the 1980s was accused of fraud, by the psychical researcher Tony Cornell. He claimed she would dress up as the spirits in her séances and would play music during them which provided cover for her to change clothes.\nThe British journalist Ruth Brandon published the book \"The Spiritualists\" (1983) which exposed the fraud of the Victorian mediums. The book received positive reviews and has been influential to skeptics of spiritualism. The British apport medium Paul McElhoney was exposed as a fraud during a séance in Osset, Yorkshire in 1983. The tape recorder that McElhoney took to his séances was investigated and a black tape was discovered bound around the battery compartment and inside carnation flowers were found as well as a key-ring torch and other objects.\n\nIn 1988, the magician Bob Couttie criticized the paranormal author Brian Inglis for deliberately ignoring evidence of fraud in mediumship. Couttie wrote Inglis had not familiarized himself with magician techniques. In 1990 the researcher Gordon Stein discovered that the levitation photograph of the medium Carmine Mirabelli was fraudulent. The photograph was a trick as there were signs of chemical retouching under Mirabelli's feet. The retouching showed that Mirabelli was not levitating but was standing on a ladder which was erased from the photograph.\n\nIn 1991, Wendy Grossman in the \"New Scientist\" criticized the parapsychologist Stephen E. Braude for ignoring evidence of fraud in mediumship. According to Grossman \"[Braude] accuses sceptics of ignoring the evidence he believes is solid, but himself ignores evidence that does not suit him. If a medium was caught cheating on some occasions, he says, the rest of that medium's phenomena were still genuine.\" Grossman came to the conclusion that Braude did not do proper research on the subject and should study \"the art of conjuring.\"\n\nIn 1992, Richard Wiseman analyzed the Feilding report of Eusapia Palladino and argued that she employed a secret accomplice that could enter the room by a fake door panel positioned near the séance cabinet. Wiseman discovered this trick was already mentioned in a book from 1851, he also visited a carpenter and skilled magician who constructed a door within an hour with a false panel. The accomplice was suspected to be her second husband, who insisted on bringing Palladino to the hotel where the séances took place. Massimo Polidoro and Gian Marco Rinaldi also analyzed the Feilding report but came to the conclusion no secret accomplice was needed as Palladino during the 1908 Naples séances could have produced the phenomena by using her foot.\n\nColin Fry was exposed in 1992 when during a séance the lights were unexpectedly turned on and he was seen holding a spirit trumpet in the air, which the audience had been led to believe was being levitated by spiritual energy. In 1997, Massimo Polidoro and Luigi Garlaschelli produced wax-moulds directly from one's hand which were exactly the same copies as Gustav Geley obtained from Franek Kluski, which are kept at the Institute Metapsychique International.\nA series of mediumistic séances known as the Scole Experiment took place between 1993 and 1998 in the presence of the researchers David Fontana, Arthur Ellison and Montague Keen. This has produced photographs, audio recordings and physical objects which appeared in the dark séance room (known as apports). A criticism of the experiment was that it was flawed because it did not rule out the possibility of fraud. The skeptical investigator Brian Dunning wrote the Scole experiments fail in many ways. The séances were held in the basement of two of the mediums, only total darkness was allowed with no night vision apparatus as it might \"frighten the spirits away\". The box containing the film was not examined and could easily have been accessible to fraud. And finally, even though many years have passed, there has been no follow-up, no further research by any credible agency or published accounts.\n\nThe VERITAS Research Program of the Laboratory for Advances in Consciousness and Health in the Department of Psychology at the University of Arizona, run by the parapsychologist Gary Schwartz, was created primarily to test the hypothesis that the consciousness (or identity) of a person survives physical death. Schwartz claimed his experiments were indicative of survival, but do not yet provide conclusive proof. The experiments described by Schwartz have received criticism from the scientific community for being inadequately designed and using poor controls.\n\nRay Hyman discovered many methodological errors with Schwartz's research including; \"Inappropriate control comparisons\", \"Failure to use double-blind procedures\", \"Creating non-falsifiable outcomes by reinterpreting failures as successes\" and \"Failure to independently check on facts the sitters endorsed as true\". Hyman wrote \"Even if the research program were not compromised by these defects, the claims being made would require replication by independent investigators.\" Hyman criticizes Schwartz's decision to publish his results without gathering \"evidence for their hypothesis that would meet generally accepted scientific criteria... they have lost credibility.\"\n\nIn 2003, skeptic investigator Massimo Polidoro in his book \"Secrets of the Psychics\" documented the history of fraud in mediumship and spiritualistic practices as well as the psychology of psychic deception. Terence Hines in his book \"Pseudoscience and the Paranormal\" (2003) has written:\n\nModern spiritualists and psychics keep detailed files on their victims. As might be expected, these files can be very valuable and are often passed on from one medium or psychic to another when one retires or dies. Even if a psychic doesn't use a private detective or have immediate access to driver's license records and such, there is still a very powerful technique that will allow the psychic to convince people that the psychic knows all about them, their problems, and their deep personal secrets, fears, and desires. The technique is called cold reading and is probably as old as charlatanism itself... If John Edward (or any of the other self-proclaimed speakers with the dead) really could communicate with the dead, it would be a trivial matter to prove it. All that would be necessary would be for him to contact any of the thousands of missing persons who are presumed dead—famous (e.g., Jimmy Hoffa, Judge Crater) or otherwise—and correctly report where the body is. Of course, this is never done. All we get, instead, are platitudes to the effect that Aunt Millie, who liked green plates, is happy on the other side.\n\nAn experiment conducted by the British Psychological Society in 2005 suggests that under the controlled condition of the experiment, people who claimed to be professional mediums do not demonstrate the mediumistic ability. In the experiment, mediums were assigned to work the participants chosen to be \"sitters.\" The mediums claimed to contact the deceased who were related to the sitters. The research gather the numbers of the statements made and have the sitters rate the accuracy of the statements. The readings that were considered to be somewhat accurate by the sitters were very generalized, and the ones that were considered inaccurate were the ones that were very specific.\n\nOn Fox News on the Geraldo at Large show, October 6, 2007, Geraldo Rivera and other investigators accused Schwartz as a fraud as he had overstepped his position as a university researcher by requesting over three million dollars from a bereaved father who had lost his son. Schwartz claimed to have contacted the spirit of a 25-year-old man in the bathroom of his parents house and it is alleged he attempted to charge the family 3.5 million dollars for his mediumship services. Schwartz responded saying that the allegations were set up to destroy his science credibility.\n\nIn 2013 Rose Marks and members of her family were convicted of fraud for a series of crimes spanning 20 years entailing between $20 and $45 million. They told vulnerable clients that to solve their problems they had to give the purported psychics money and valuables. Marks and family promised to return the cash and goods after \"cleansing\" them. Prosecutors established they had no intent to return the property.\n\nThe exposures of fraudulent activity led to a rapid decline in ectoplasm and materialization séances. Investigator Joe Nickell has written that modern self-proclaimed mediums like John Edward, Sylvia Browne, Rosemary Altea and James Van Praagh are avoiding the Victorian tradition of dark rooms, spirit handwriting and flying tambourines as these methods risk exposure. They instead use \"mental mediumship\" tactics like cold reading or gleaning information from sitters before hand (hot reading). Group readings also improve hits by making general statements with conviction, which will fit at least one person in the audience. Shows are carefully edited before airing to show only what appears to be hits and removing anything that does not reflect well on the medium.\n\nMichael Shermer criticized mediums in \"Scientific American\", saying, \"mediums are unethical and dangerous: they prey on the emotions of the grieving. As grief counselors know, death is best faced head-on as a part of life.\" Shermer wrote that the human urge to seek connections between events that may form patterns meaningful for survival is a function of natural evolution, and called the alleged ability of mediums to talk to the dead \"a well-known illusion of a meaningful pattern.\"\n\nAccording to James Randi, a skeptic who has debunked many claims of psychic ability and uncovered fraudulent practices, mediums who do cold readings \"fish, suggest possibilities, make educated guesses and give options.\" Randi has a standing offer of $1 million US dollars for anyone who can demonstrate psychic ability under controlled conditions. Most prominent psychics and mediums have not taken up his offer.\n\nThe key role in mediumship of this sort is played by \"effect of subjective confirmation\" (see Barnum effect) — people are predisposed to consider reliable that information which though is casual coincidence or a guess, however it seems to them personally important and significant and answers their personal belief.\n\nThe article about this phenomenon in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" places emphasis that \"… one by one spiritual mediums were convicted of fraud, sometimes using the tricks borrowed from scenic \"magicians\" to convince their paranormal abilities\". In the article it is also noted that \"… the opening of the wide ranging fraud happening on spiritualistic sessions caused serious damage to reputation of the movement of a Spiritualism and in the USA pushed it on the public periphery\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6445423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6445423", "title": "Memali Incident", "text": "Memali Incident\n\nThe Memali Incident or code-named as Operasi Angkara (English: Operation Cause) and Operasi Hapus (English: Operation Destroy) was a major incident that occurred in the remote village of Kampung Memali, Baling in the Malaysian state of Kedah on 19 November 1985.\n\nA team of 200 policemen, under orders from the Deputy Prime Minister Musa Hitam, laid siege to kampung (village) houses in Memali, near Baling in Kedah. The houses were occupied by an Islamic sect of about 400 people led by Ibrahim Mahmud a.k.a. Ibrahim Libya. The siege resulted in the deaths of 14 villagers and 4 policemen.\n\nThe Memali Incident followed severely strained relationships between UMNO and PAS, the two major political parties in Malaysia. Some PAS leaders had concluded that UMNO members were apostate. In 1981, Hadi Awang, (who was then PAS state commissioner for Terengganu, and has been PAS President since 2002) claimed that UMNO perpetuated the unIslamic rule of colonialism, and therefore the struggle of PAS and its supporters against UMNO is jihad,\n\nIbrahim was a local religious teacher who had received part of his education at the University of Tripoli in Libya, hence his nickname \"Ibrahim Libya\". The police wanted to arrest Ibrahim Mahmud under the Internal Security Act, for creating discord and disharmony, but he refused to give himself up. Ibrahim was also accused of harbouring two brothers, Yusof Che Mit and Ramli Che Mit, who were fugitives. Revered by the village folks, who called him Ustaz Ibrahim, they vowed to defend him to the death.\n\nIbrahim attended Sekolah Rendah Kebangsaan Weng in Baling before furthering his studies in Islamic studies at Sekolah Agama Ittifaqiah, Kg Carok Putih, Weng and later Pondok Al-Khariah, Pokok Sena, Seberang Perai. Ibrahim Mahmud attended the University of Tripoli in Libya. He had also studied in India and at Al-Azhar University in Cairo.\n\nUpon his return, he worked as a preacher with Pusat Islam. He appeared on television to lecture on topics of Islam. Allegedly, Ibrahim was involved in the 1974 Baling Demonstrations along with Anwar Ibrahim. Ibrahim Mahmud's politics drifted towards those of PAS. His close association with PAS worried the government of Dr. Mahathir Mohamad. In 1978, Ibrahim contested the elections for the seat of Bayu-Baling as a PAS candidate. Ibrahim polled 5,081 votes as opposed to the Barisan Nasional candidate who polled 6,169 votes. In 1982, Ibrahim again contested for the same seat but lost by 100 votes.\n\nPusat Islam looked into his teachings and thereafter banned him from lecturing in the media or to give lectures in mosques and suraus throughout the nation. Pusat Islam also started making allegations of 'deviationist acts' against him. Ibrahim was called a fanatic who challenged the integrity of the Government.\n\nThe police action left 14 civilians and 4 policemen dead. \nThe villagers were armed with a few guns, machetes, sharpened bamboo rods, and other rudimentary weapons. The police used heavy vehicles.\n\nPolice detained 159 people, including women and children. Thirty-six persons involved in the incident were arrested under the Internal Security Act in January 1986 but later released in June.\n\nThe government published a white paper and showed an official video recording of the incident on national television. The White Paper on the incident said the extremists tried to spread deviationist teachings and disrupt public order.\n\nThe Malaysian Government released video footage culled from police tapes of the operation on prime time television on TV1, the primary government television station. The video showed villagers armed with parangs, slingshots and Molotov cocktails taunting and protesting the actions of the Federal Reserve Unit troopers. The video also showed a mortally wounded police sergeant writhing in pain while awaiting help.\n\nIn February 2002, TV1 showed the confessions of a man involved in the Memali incident. The Information Ministry's Zainuddin Maidin explained that the man would relate how he was influenced to participate. Zainuddin said the intention of the broadcast was to show the truth. PAS was concerned over plans to air the video clip as it may have implications on a pending court case involving the families of those killed in the incident. A PAS official said they were not worried about the political impact of the video clip because PAS believes the people would not blindly accept it.\n\nPAS called those who died as al-shahid, those who have achieved shahid (martyrs). Ibrahim Mahmud is called al-Shahid Ibrahim. This was in stark contrast to the Government's stand of calling those who dies as \"criminals\". The Kedah State Fatwa Council took the dramatic step of issuing a Fatwa saying that those who died were not al-shahid as claimed by PAS.\nThe National Fatwa Council on 3 February 1986 also ruled that the deaths of Ibrahim Libya and his followers were not martyrdom.\nAl-Mau'nah leader, Mohamed Amin Mohamed Razali was allegedly present during part of the Memali Incident. The incident became part of his motive for the Al-Ma'unah establishment, to overthrow the Malaysian government.\n\nKamaruzaman Yusoff views that the \"Memali Incident entailed the interpretation and materialisation of the concepts of jihād and syahid. A re-interpretation of these two concepts has manifested itself in the recent Al-Mau'nah Incident and the activities of the Kumpulan Militan Malaysia (Malaysian Militant Group) that tried to effect political changes through unconstitutional means; and this is certainly in contrast to PAS' willingness to participate in the Malaysian electoral process.”\n\nAt the time of the incident, media reported Dr. Mahathir Mohamad was away on a visit to China, and identified Musa as the Acting Prime Minister. That story remained unchanged until 2014, nearly 29 years later, when Musa revealed that Dr. Mahathir was in fact still in his office in Malaysia. Musa categorically denied he was the Acting Prime Minister at that time. In response, Dr. Mahathir confirmed that, contrary to past news reports, he was in Malaysia on the day of the siege. Following these revelations, PAS called for formation of a Royal Commission of Inquiry (RCI) to probe the Memali incident and to retract the white paper on the incident, but this was rejected by Parliament. As of April 2014, survivors were continuing to seek an explanation of the incident from the government.\n\nA fund known as the Memali Fund was set up to collect donation for the next-of-kin of Ibrahim Libya and those who died during the Memali Incident. PAS through Harakah had urged generous donations to the fund to help the families of Ibrahim and his men which the party regarded as martyrs. A PAS member lodged a police report against alleged misappropriation. This led to a public outcry and prompted PAS president Fadzil Noor to investigate.\n\n"}
{"id": "9223415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9223415", "title": "Myrmomancy", "text": "Myrmomancy\n\nMyrmomancy (from Greek \"myrmex\" \"ant\" and \"manteia\" \"prophecy\") is the practice of reading omens from the observed behavior of ants, especially from their eating behavior. It is a form of entomomancy (from Greek \"entomon\" \"insect\"), which is itself theriomantic (from Greek \"therion\" \"wild beast\"; also known as \"zoomancy\"). People who use this divination technique subscribe to the worldview that the movements of ants are, in some supernatural way, ultimately connected with their life and that an understanding of these movements enables one to learn about the future. The interpretation of ant behavior may vary cross-culturally.\n\n"}
{"id": "30864397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864397", "title": "Nikah mut'ah", "text": "Nikah mut'ah\n\nNikah mut'ah (, literally \"pleasure marriage\";or Sigheh () is a private and verbal temporary marriage contract that is practiced in Twelver Shia Islam in which the duration of the marriage and the mahr must be specified and agreed upon in advance. It is a private contract made in a verbal or written format. A declaration of the intent to marry and an acceptance of the terms are required as in other forms of marriage in Islam.\n\nAccording to Twelver Shia jurisprudence, preconditions for mutah are: The bride must not be married, she must be Muslim or belong to \"Ahl al-Kitab\" (People of the Book), she should be chaste, not addicted to fornication and she should not be a young virgin (if her father is absent and cannot give consent). At the end of the contract, the marriage ends and the wife must undergo \"iddah\", a period of abstinence from marriage (and thus, sexual intercourse). The iddah is intended to give paternal certainty to any child/ren should the wife become pregnant during the temporary marriage contract.\n\nGenerally, the Nikah mut'ah has no proscribed minimum or maximum duration. However, one source, \"The Oxford Dictionary of Islam\", indicates the minimum duration of the marriage is debatable and durations of at least three days, three months or one year have been suggested. Sunni Muslims, and within Shia Islam, Zaidi Shias, Ismaili Shias, and Dawoodi Bohras do not practice Nikah mut'ah. However, Sunni Muslims practice Nikah misyar, which has been regularly considered a somewhat similar marriage arrangement.\n\nSome Muslims and Western scholars have claimed that both Nikah mut'ah and Nikah misyar are Islamically void attempts to religiously sanction prostitution which is otherwise forbidden.\n\n\"Mut'ah\", literally meaning \"joy\", is a condition where rules of Islam are relaxed. It can apply to marriage (the \"nikah mut'ah\") or to the \"Hajj\" (the obligatory pilgrimage) (the \"Mut'ah of Hajj\"). Mut'ah is a sensitive area of disagreement between those who follow Sunni Islam (for whom nikah mut'ah is forbidden) and those who follow Shia Islam (for whom nikah mut'ah is allowed). Shias and Sunnis do agree that, initially, or near the beginning of Islam, nikah mut'ah was a legal contract. Beyond that time, the legality of the practice is debated.\n\nA historical example of nikah mut'ah is described by Ibn Hajar Asqalani (1372 - 1448 CE (852 AH)) in his commentary on the work of Sahih al-Bukhari. Muawiyah I (602 - 680 AH), first caliph of the Umayyad dynasty, entered into a nikah mut'ah contract with a woman from Ta'if. She was a slave who was owned by a man called Banu Hazrmee. She received a yearly stipend from Muawiyah. Ordinarily, sexual access rights to a female slave belongs to her slave owner as part of his property rights which cannot be shared or assigned, unless the slave is married off, in which case the slave owner loses all rights to sexual access.\n\nThe scholar, ‘Abd ar-Razzaq as San‘ani (744 CE), described how Saeed bin Jubayr frequently visited a woman in Mecca. When asked why, he said he had a contract of nikah mut'ah with her and seeing her was \"more halal than drinking water\".\n\nBy contrast, in the Sahih al-Bukhari, Mut'ah marriage is classed as forbidden because Ali bin Abu Talib said that he heard Muhammad say that it is forbidden. \nAs narrated by 'Ali bin Abu Talib: \"On the day of khaibar, Allah's Apostle forbade the Mut'a (i.e. temporary marriage) and the eating of donkey-meat.\" as mentioned in Sahih al-Bukhari (Volume 9, Book 86, Number 91).\n\nZaidi Shia texts also state that Ali said Mut'ah marriage was forbidden and for this reason the Zaidi Shia do not practise Mut'ah marriage.\n\nIn the sixteenth century, during the reign of Akbar, the third emperor of the Mughal Empire, who was believed to be a Hanafi Sunni, debates on religious matters were held weekly on Thursdays. When discussing nikah mut'ah, Shi'ite theologians argued that the historic Sunni scholar Malik ibn Anas supported the practice. However, the evidence from Malik's \"Muwatta\" (manual of religious jurisprudence) was not forthcoming. The Shi'ite theologians persisted and nikah mut'ah was legalized for the twelve Shia during Akbar's reign.\n\nWhile according to the actual book \"Muwatta\" by Malik ibn Anas, the oldest book on Islamic Jurisprudence, Mutah was banned because Ali ibn Abi Talib said that Mutah was banned by Muhammad himself on the day of Khaibar. For this reason the Zaidi Shia do not practice Muatah marriage. According to Malik ibn Anas in \"Muwatta\" Volume I, Chapter 18, Hadith 1151 43:\n\"Both Abdullah and Al-Hasan, the two sons of Muhammad ben Ali Abu Taleb, from their father Muhammad ben Ali ben Abu Taleb from Ali ben Abu Taleb, that the Messenger of Allah had forbidden temporary marriage, and the eating of the flesh of the domestic donkey on the day of Khaibar.\"\n\nThe Hanafi school of Sunni jurisprudence argues that although the nikah mut'ah contract itself is valid, marriage is regarded as a permanent condition and therefore, the temporary element of the contract makes it void.\n\nThe only Sunni Arab jurisdiction that mentions nikah mut'ah is Jordan; if the nikah mut'ah meets all other requirements, it is treated as if it were a permanent marriage.\n\nThe thirteenth century scholar, Fakhr al-Din al-Razi said,\n\nThe 20th century Sunni scholar, Waheed uz-Zaman, Deobandi said,\n\nThe Gharab al Quran, the dictionary of Qur'anic terms states, \n\nThe Tafsir Haqqani, a critical explanation of the Quran states,\n\nSunni Muslims use this hadeeth from Sahih Muslim as further evidence that even great companions like Ibn Abbas got it wrong and Ali had to correct him. And this correction by Ali they say ends the whole subject matter on the complete banning of mut'ah marriage.\n\nDe facto temporary marriages were conducted by Sunnis by not specifying how long the marriage would last in the written documents themselves while orally agreeing to set a fixed period.\n\nEven though nikah mut'ah is prohibited by Sunni schools of law, several types of innovative marriage exist, including \"misyar\" (ambulant) and ʿurfi (customary) marriage. Some regard misyar as being comparable to nikah mut'ah: for the sole purpose of \"sexual gratification in a licit manner\". Sunnis dismiss these claims as nothing more than Shia polemics. Nikah misyar, they argue, unlike mut'ah is not temporary but a permanent marriage with no time limits. The difference between a normal marriage and misyar marriage is that in misyar the man and woman forego certain rights temporarily until both partners choose to reinstate them. But misyar is still frowned upon in Sunni Islam and never recommended. In Ba'athist Iraq, Uday Hussein's daily newspaper \"Babil\", which at one point referred to the Shi'ites as \"rafidah\", a sectarian epithet for Shia regularly used by ultraconservative Salafi Muslims, attacked Wahhabi clerics as hypocrites for endorsing \"Misyar\" while denouncing \"Mut'ah\".\n\nThe Twelver Shias as the main branch of Shia Islam give arguments based on the \"Quran\", \"hadith\" (religious narration), history, and moral grounds to support their position on mut'ah. Firstly, the word of the Quran takes precedence over that of any other scripture, including the An-Nisa, 24, known as \"the verse of Mut'ah\".\n\nA Twelver Shia hadith attributed to Ali ibn Yaqteen notes that Musa al-Kadhim, the seventh of The Twelve Imams, when asked about nikah mut'ah, said,\n\nHadiths also record the use of nikah mut'ah during the time of Abu Bakr, a caliph and sahabi. Later, in 16 AH (637 CE), Umar, also a caliph and sahabi, prohibited mut'ah. Shias allege Umar's prohibiting nikah mut'ah was an incident of challenge to Mohammad.\n\nOther relevant hadiths include those of Imran ibn Husain (see Hadith of Mut'ah and Imran ibn Husain), and Abdullah Ibn Abbas. The opinion of Ibn Abbas is cited in Fatih al-Qadir (\"Ibn Abbas said the verse of Mut'ah\"); in Tafseer Mu'alim al Tanzeel (Ibn Abbas said, \"The verse of Mut'ah was an order and it's Halal.\"); in Tafseer Kabeer (The verse of Mut'ah appears in the Qur'an, no verse has come down to abrogate it.\"); (in Bukhari) (\"On that, a freed slave of his said to him, \"That is only when it is very badly needed and (qualified permanent) women are scarce, or similar cases.\" On that, Ibn Abbas said, \"Yes.\"\").\n\nHistorically, Twelver Shias see that nikah mut'ah has varied in its spiritual legality, changing from halal to haraam and back again over time, and thus cannot be considered in the same light as, for example, taking alcohol, which was never advocated by Mohammad.\n\nOther Twelver Shia hadiths are not in favor of Mutah marriage because Imam Baqir and Imam Jafar told their companions and their followers to be careful in practicing of mut´ah in fear of prosecution.\n\nAbdullah Bin Umair asked Abi Ja'far [as]: Is it acceptable to you that your women, daughters, sisters, daughters of your aunts do it (Mut'ah)? Abu Ja'far rebuked him when he mentioned his women and daughters of his aunts. Because due to the question being of the ignorant kind, and that the question was only asked to rise frustration about the matter of mut´ah.\n\nIn another Twelver Shia hadith narrated from Imam Jafar Ul Sadaq Narrated by A'maar: Abu Abdullah, Imam Jafar Sadaq said to me and to Suliman Bin Khaled: \"I from myself have made mut'ah haram on to the both of you, as long as you are in Medina. And this because you come to me all to frequent, and I fear the followers of the other party will capture you and prosecute you because of your friendship to me\". Al Kafi Pp 467.V5.Wiasal Shia Pp22.V21.\n\nThe Zaidi also reject Mutah marriage.\n\nIn many early Zaidi books like Mujmoo Imam Ali Pp 498 V112. 2) Hadiths narrated by Ali bin Abi Talib state:\n\n\"Allah's Messenger forbade the temporary marriage in the year of Khaybar.\" Mujmoo Imam Ali Pp 499 V112. \n3) Ali bin Abi Talib said to a man who was engaging in Mutah:\n\"You are a straying person, the Messenger of Allah has forbidden temporary marriage\"\n\nZaidites and Ismailites dismissed all claim made by Athana Asheri, The Twelver Shia about Mutah legality and class text that try to justify it as fabrications.\n\nZaidites and Ismailites argue that it is narrated from Imam Jaffar ul Sadiq to Imam Ismail Ul Mubarak that these texts are fornication and that it is adultery, Zina bil raza.\n\nZaidites and Ismailites argue that the traditions banning Mutah are classified as Muthawathar, highly authentic.\n\n\nSunnis have been said to term it as a \"Lustful act under a religious cover\".\n\nSome Sunni and Shia scholars hold the view that this kind of temporary marriage in the present age amounts to prostitution. Following the 2014 release of an 82-page document detailing Iran's rampant prostitution, Mut'ah marriage has been suggested by Iranian parliamentarians as a solution to the problem – where couples would be allowed to publicly register their union through the institution of Mut'ah marriage. The establishment of chastity houses has also been proposed in the past where prostitutes will be provided in state sanctioned houses, but the clients would have to perform the Nikah Mut'ah first. This proposal has not been as of yet ratified by the Iranian authorities. According to Shahla Haeri, the Iranian middle class itself considers it to be prostitution which has been given a religious cover by the fundamentalist authorities.\n\nSome Western writers have argued that mut'ah approximates prostitution. Julie Parshall writes that mut'ah is legalised prostitution which has been sanctioned by the Twelver Shia authorities. She quotes the Oxford encyclopedia of modern Islamic world to differentiate between marriage (nikah) and Mut'ah, and states that while nikah is for procreation, mut'ah is just for sexual gratification. According to Zeyno Baran, this kind of temporary marriage provides Shi'ite men with a religiously sanctioned equivalent to prostitution. According to Elena Andreeva's observation published in 2007, Russian travellers to Iran consider mut'ah to be \"legalized profligacy\" which is indistinguishable from prostitution. Religious supporters of mut'ah argue that temporary marriage is different from prostitution for a couple of reasons, including the necessity of iddah in case the couple have sexual intercourse. It means that if a woman marries a man in this way and has sex, she has to wait for a number of months before marrying again and therefore, a woman cannot marry more than 3 or 4 times in a year.\n\nThe Salafi scholar Ibtisam Ilahi Zaheer and Khurram Zaki held a recorded debate, with other participants, on Nikah mut'ah on ARY program Sar-e-Aam. This open debate, heavily referenced from all sides, stirred a lot of controversy and subsequent protests from banned terrorist outfit ASWJ.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1757876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1757876", "title": "Paul-Louis Couchoud", "text": "Paul-Louis Couchoud\n\nPaul-Louis Couchoud (), was born on July 6, 1879, at Vienne, Isère and died there on April 8, 1959. He was a French philosopher, a graduate from the prestigious École Normale Supérieure in Paris, a physician, a man of letters, and a poet. He became well known as an adapter of Japanese haiku into French, an editor of Reviews, a translator, and a writer promoting the German thesis of the non-historicity of Jesus Christ.\n\nIn 1898, Paul-Louis Couchoud entered the École Normale Supérieure (at 45, rue d'Ulm, Paris, called \"ENS rue d'Ulm\"), a special college-level institute in Paris for French elite students in arts and sciences selected every year through a national competition. He graduated in 1901 as an “agrégé” (lecturer) in philosophy. The French degree is not directly comparable to an American one, as it is granted to a few dozens of top-ranked students in a national competition held once a year.\n\nCouchoud obtained a scholarship from the banker Albert Kahn. This grant allowed Couchoud to visit Japan (Sept. 1903 - May 1904), a country which became a passion. During a trip on French canals by barge (1905), Couchoud and his two friends, sculptor Albert Poncin and painter André Faure, composed haiku in French. They published their work anonymously in a limited edition (30 copies) of \"Au fil de l'eau\" (\"Along the waterways\"), a collection of free-verse tercets which was well received. It still is considered one of the most successful adaptations of haiku in French. Couchoud also studied and translated Japanese Haijin (Yosa Buson in particular) in \"Les Épigrammes lyriques du Japon\" (\"Lyrical Epigrams of Japan\", 1906).\n\nCouchoud made later two more trips to Japan and China, from which resulted his collection \"Sages et poètes d’Asie\" (published as \"Japanese Impressions\", 1920). In 1955, Marguerite Yourcenar wrote: \"I have never met P. L. Couchoud, but one of his books, \"Sages et poètes d'Asie\", which I still have in a hardback edition on my bookshelves in Northeast Harbor, may have been the first work through which I encountered Asian poetry and thought. I was fifteen then, and I still know by heart some haiku translated or adapted by him; this exquisite book was for me the equivalent of a half-open door. It has never closed. How much would I have loved to go and visit P. L. Couchoud with you, and thank the sick poet for all what he made me feel or resonate\".\n\nIn 1907, Couchoud became acquainted with the famous French writer Anatole France (1844-1924), becoming his friend and confidante until A. France’s death in 1924. The French writer was famous as being the model of the ideal French man of letters. He was a passionate critic of the Catholic Church, and an avowed opponent of the clerical political factions. He supported the Jew Alfred Dreyfus in the world-famous Dreyfus Affair. He received the Nobel Prize for literature in 1921, and in 1922 all his books were placed on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" of the Vatican.\n\nCouchoud took part in the sessions of the \"Salon\" organized by Leontine Lippmann, Anatole France’s friend and \"muse\", known after her marriage as \"Madame Arman de Caillavet\".\n\nCouchoud became Anatole France's doctor, and, upon the death of Leontine Lippmann (1910), he paid regular visits to A. France at the Villa Saïd, in his quality of physician, and also as a friend, to bring him consolation during his mourning. He convinced A. France to go on another journey in Italy to overcome his grief. Couchoud acted as witness at the wedding of Anatole France and Emma Laprévotte (Oct. 1920). After France's death, Couchoud said of him: \"For more than twenty years I have known him as if he were a gentle father, always ready to listen and guide you\".\n\nIn the mid 1900s, Couchoud decided to study medicine. At the same time, Albert Schweitzer was making the same choice in Germany after his studies in theology. After an internship at the \"Maison nationale\" of Charenton, Couchoud became an intern in the asylum system of the Paris administration. He worked at the \"Maison Blanche Asylum\" as an assistant of Marc Trénel (May 1909 - April 1910). Trenel entered a very complimentary appraisal of his assistant in his file (Dec. 1909): \"High intelligence, encyclopedic knowledge, highly sophisticated mind. His future will be extraordinary \". This assessment was confirmed by Albert Paraz who said of him: \"... a man of amazing culture, reading all the ancient languages. He was so aggrieved when I confessed that I didn’t understand them that, in the end, I made him believe that I could at least speak Latin and Greek ...\"\n\nCouchoud presented in Paris his doctorate thesis on primitive asthenia (1911). He became director of a health center in Saint-Cloud, where he took care of Anatole France, a center owned by Anthippe Sevastos, the sculptor Antoine Bourdelle's sister-in-law, whom Couchoud ended up marrying (May 1918).\nIn 1922, Couchoud became a doctor at the leading Cochin hospital in Paris.\n\nWhen the French writer Jules Romain started conducting experiments on \"extra-retinal vision\" (1917), criticisms of this pseudo-science obliged him to interrupt his \"research\" until 1922. One such session took place at Anatole France’s home, which was witnessed by co-signing doctors, including Couchoud, who at the time offered his own home for another session (Dec. 1922).\n\nCouchoud became intrigued by the German Christ Myth Theory after reading \"Orpheus]\" (1909), a history of religions by Salomon Reinach (1858-1932), another graduate of the \"ENS\". Jacques Chevalier, a close friend of Couchoud since their time at the \"ENS\" as students in philosophy, was reported describing Couchoud's decisive encounter with the new ideas: \"[A]fter attending Loisy's lectures at the \"Collège de France\", Couchoud became convinced by a German thesis denying the historicity of Jesus. Which did not prevent him from using some poetic language when discussing Christianity, for instance in \"The Enigma of Jesus\" (1924) and \"The God Jesus\" (1951)\".\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, Couchoud became an editor of major media projects on the history of religions. \"Archibald Robertson\" wrote that \"[T]he works of Paul Louis Couchoud are such a joy to read that their style alone must have made many converts.\"\n\nCouchoud presented his thesis in a first article published in the literary review \"Mercure de France\": \"The Enigma of Jesus\", (March 1923), and developed it in his first book, \"The Enigma of Jesus\" (1923), which carried an introduction by the Scottish anthropologist James G. Frazer, the famous author of \"The Golden Bough\" (1890), a pioneering study of primitive mythology and comparative religion. Frazer had initially strongly rejected the Jesus myth thesis, but he modified his original dogmatic view while giving credit to Couchoud for his calm and reasoned analysis: \"[W]hether Dr. Couchoud be right or wrong [in denying the historicity of Jesus]...he appears to have laid his finger on a weak point in the chain of evidence on which hangs the religious faith of a great part of civilized mankind.\" Frazer's contribution and more open stance gave a marked credibility to Couchoud.\n\nCouchoud rejects Robertson's hypothesis of a pre-Christian cult of Joshua, for which he finds no evidence. He presents his thesis in his article in the following terms:\n\n\"Jesus is an unknown historical figure. It is possible that he may have lived, since millions of people have lived without leaving a trace. It is not enough to declare 'We know nothing about Jesus, except that he existed'. On the contrary, we must boldly assert that 'We do not know anything about him, not even whether he existed'. In historical research, only the strictest accuracy permits us to say anything more. However, the very document which would positively prove the existence of Jesus is missing...Jesus belongs to history thanks to his name and the cult built around him, but he is not a historical figure. He is a divine being, whose knowledge was slowly developed by Christian minds. He was begotten in faith, in hope and in love. He was shaped by emotional fervor. He has been given changing figures by various forms of worship. He was born the moment he got his first believer... His only reality is spiritual. Everything else is phantasmagoria.\"\nIn the \"Creation of Christ\" (1939), they will be pushed to a later date, around 135–140. Couchoud was countered by articles of the Jesuit , and the Protestant Maurice Goguel also in \"Le Mercure de France\".\n\nCouchoud continued exposing his thesis in a series of lectures to a cultural association, the \"Union pour la Vérité\" (\"Union for Truth\") in early 1924. He published a second article, \"The Mystery of Jesus\" (March 1924), after having presented the proofs for inspection to A. France, assuring him that \"You know that I have given you my heart\". Couchoud produced a second book of the same title as the article, to complete his exposé, \"The Mystery of Jesus\" (March 1924). In this second book, Couchoud reproduced his two articles of the \"Mercure de France\", adding three more chapters. \"At the origin of Christianity there is, if I am right, not a personal biography, but a collective mystical experience, sustaining a divine history mystically revealed.\" (p. 117) He attempted to show that the study of the Apocalypse (Revelation of John) and of the non-Pauline epistles confirmed the conclusions drawn from the Pauline epistles. Only the testimony of Paul of Tarsus is valid. The docetic form of Christianity should be the orthodox one, if Paul is defined as the true founder of Christianity.\n\nAs a first step, Couchoud argued that it is impossible to assume that Jews would have deified a mere man. The methodology followed by contemporary historians, from Ernest Renan to Alfred Loisy, in trying to understand the figure of Jesus and the origins of Christianity, faced two major obstacles: First, one cannot accept that after one generation or even less, an ordinary man could be deified, and, secondly, that Jesus's life could have escaped the attention of historians, because of missing documentation. In Couchoud's opinion, the doubtful \"Testimonium Flavianum\" (the famous passage in Josephus's \"Antiquities of the Jews\", III, iii, 3 which mentions of Jesus \"He was the Christ\") is an entire interpolation. Everything in the Talmud concerning Jesus is derived from Christian sources . Of the three Roman \"witnesses\", Suetonius only mentions a Jewish agitator named \"Chrestos\", while with regards to the other two, Pliny the Younger and Tacitus, Couchoud considers the Christ mention in the Tacitus passage genuine. But the Roman witnesses only testify to the existence of a Christian movement, and concerning the origin of this movement, they only repeated Christian beliefs.\n\nCouchoud's \"Mystery of Jesus\" was a slim volume, not impressive by scholarly standards, but, in the France of 1924, it packed a lot of weight. Couchoud became de facto the leader of French rationalists on the subject of religion from 1924 to 1939. He was chief editor for a series of publications on religion and free thinking: \"Christianity\" (which lasted ten years, 1923-1932, publishing 42 works), \"Judaism\", and \"Myths and Religions\", amounting to some 100 works.\n\nCouchoud was made editor of a new section, \"Chronicle of Ideas\" in the magazine \"Europe\" (Jan. 1927). The magazine published various articles popularizing Couchoud's thesis that Jesus was not a historic figure — to the objection of the French writer Romain Rolland. But after 1928, the Couchoud faction lost some of its influence with the publisher. Europe published Couchoud’s last article, \"Le problème de Jésus\", in June 1934.\n\nThe original French title was \"Jésus: Le Dieu fait homme\" (\"Jesus: The God made man\", 1937).\nChallenged and criticized from all sides in France, Couchoud published his book as a public answer. Couchoud had the advantage of the advanced research published by three elite scholars, the independent historian Charles Guignebert, the Protestant theologian Maurice Goguel, and the exommunicated critic of the Catholic Church Alfred Loisy.\n\nCouchoud displayed no acrimony against Christianity, and always showed respect and appreciation for it, occasionally using poetic language to describe Jesus and his influence. He dedicated the book \"to the memory of that most noble man\", John Mackinnon Robertson (1856-1933), accepting his idea that a myth and a cult must have preceded the development of the figure of Christ and of the Christian religion.\n\nCouchoud dismissed the external evidence of Jewish and Roman witnesses (Josephus, Talmud, Tacitus, and Suetonius). Couchoud also dismissed the romantic exaggerations and vagueness of Ernest Renan, but praised Alfred Loisy as a great modern critic. Couchoud's fundamental idea is that the figure of Jesus Christ was conceived originally in Jewish consciousness as a purely 'heavenly Man' announcing a cosmic transformation, and amplified and diffused through the mystery books (\"apocalypses\"). \"It was only much later that he was made flesh and blood [in the Gospels] on paper. Thus Christ was created\", as a \"literary creation\".\n\nThe book of 459 pages was published in two slim volumes. It consists of three parts, of a total of 22 chapters and two Appendices:\n\nCouchoud’s thesis was received with passionate reactions in France, a culture traditionally dominated by Catholicism, and he became subjected to a wave of criticisms from various quarters.\n\nLéonce de Grandmaison, (1868-1927), a priest of the \"Society of Jesus\", founder of the magazine \"Research in Religion science\", also answered Couchoud’s 1923 article in the \"Mercure de France\" (August 1923) with his own article, \"Jesus in History\", which became the basis for his book, \"Jesus in history and in mystery\" (1924). He claimed that Couchoud's work was the \"dream of a poet rather than the work of an historian\". He followed with an article \"Recent French discussion of the Historical Existence of Jesus Christ.\" Couchoud's policy was to make no formal response to criticisms.\n\nThe debate of the historicity of Jesus (Goguel) against the denial of historicity (Couchoud) unfurled in Paris during 1923-1925. Maurice Goguel (1880-1955) was a Professor at the Faculty of Protestant Theology and the Sorbonne University in Paris. Representing a group of liberal exegetes, he responded to Couchoud's first article (1923), with an article also published in the \"Mercure de France\" (June 1923), entitled \"About the Enigma of Jesus\". To better criticize Couchoud's ideas, he also joined the discussions of \"The Union for Truth\". Finally, he tackled the whole issue of Couchoud's non-historicity thesis in his \"Jesus of Nazareth: Myth or History?\" (1925, transl. 1926).\n\nThe liberal historian Charles Guignebert (1867–1939), professor of \"History of ancient and medieval Christianity\" at the Sorbonne University, had been raised without any religious education, and studying Christianity as a professional historian free of religious bias and apologetics, as shown in his \"The Jesus Problem\" (1914). He defended the historicity of Jesus in an article in the \"Review of History of Religions\" (1926), then with his book \"Jesus\" (1933), criticizing the historicity denial of the major advocates of the time: Paul-Louis Couchoud, William Benjamin Smith, John M. Robertson, Peter Jensen, Albert Kalthoff, and Arthur Drews. On the other hand, however, he considered that research from Catholic circles was tainted with dogmatic bias. Like Alfred Loisy, Guignebert objected to the apologetic use of historical criticism, as it tends to confuse history with theology, a literary genre characterizing the works of a whole group of French Catholic writers carefully identified in his book.\n\nThe Jesuit Joseph Huby published his book, \"The Mythomaniacs of the Rationalist Union\" (1933) as a rebuttal to \"The Question of Jesus and the Origins of Christianity\" (1932), jointly published by P. L. Couchoud, Prosper Alfaric, and Alfred Loisy, a book already condemned and placed on the Index by the Vatican (June 1933).\n\nLoisy had remained silent when Couchoud published \"The Mystery of Jesus\" (1924), refusing to make any public commentary. In addition, Couchoud, had been using Loisy's scholarship, considering his own thesis as a logical continuation of Loisy's analysis. in a spirit of friendship, Couchoud had organised Loisy’s jubilee celebration (1927). Their relationship had created the public impression that Loisy was agreeing with Couchoud.\n\nIn his book, \"La Naissance du Christianisme\" (1933), transl. \"The Birth of the Christian Religion\", (1948), Loisy had expressed doubts about \"the noisy conjectures...[which] seem to me somewhat fragile. These conjectures arise generally from persons who have arrived late at the problem of Jesus, and who have not previously made any profound study of the history of Israel and of Christianity...With us P.L Couchoud... postulating a pre-Christian myth of the Suffering Jahve, which a vision of Simon Peter suddenly transformed into a living religion.\" (p. 6). In his \"Memoirs\" Loisy later wrote that he had worried about giving Couchoud too much publicity. He had taken note that Couchoud was close to former radical priests who had also been excommunicated), including Joseph Turmel — sufficient grounds to arouse Loisy’s distrust. Loisy, after a long silence, felt the need to speak out publicly in an article in the \"Hibbert Journal\", \"Was Jesus a Historical Person?\", then in his book \"History and Myth of Jesus\" (1938), attacking Couchoud's non-historicity. He dismissed \"Couchoud's central point being the metamorphosis into history, through the initiative of Marcion, of a myth that sprang from Jewish apocalyptic.\"\n\nCouchoud was extremely hurt by Loisy’s publication, whom he counted as a friend and ally. He wrote to Loisy:\n\"A friend told me that you have devoted the contents of a whole booklet against my last book. I will not read it, because I have learnt at the same time that it is insignificant in its criticism, and noteworthy only for the hatred it manifests. I'm rather proud of the hatred that I have inspired in you through the help I have given you. One must have enemies: it keeps you warm. I regret, poor man, that after having held you in some esteem, I now have to despise you to such a degree.” (June 4, 1938).\nCouchoud responded to Loisy with an article in the same \"Hibbert Journal\". He attached this response as appendix II to \"The Creation of Christ\". He summarized the confrontation: \"The historicity of Jesus is an article of faith.\" (Appendix II, p. 447). However, Couchoud reiterated his affirmation of the power of the spiritual figure of the Heavenly Christ. \"[It] has no relation to the conception of a man elevated to divinity nor to that of the anthropomorphic God, both of which were familiar to the religion of antiquity. It is an intimate and unique synthesis in which God retains his glory in its fullness and man his mortal destiny in its bitterness, without change of God into man or of man into God. It was a new idea, and it was by this new idea that the world was conquered.\"\n\nCouchoud explained his own use of the word \"myth\". A \"myth\" is a narrative aiming at shaping beliefs. A \"religious conception\" animates rites, rituals and behaviors: \"I am concerned [with] the history of a religious conception.\" Myth is easily derogatory; it explains a natural fact, a rite, or an idea as a \"narrative\", to help the mind grasp, and remember rules or beliefs. A \"religious conception\", is \"simpler and deeper, far more unsophisticated and fertile. Its relation to rites and myths is primordial. Zeus is a religious conception. The punishment of the Danaids is a myth.\"\n\nThe Heavenly Christ is such a \"religious conception\": \"I regard it as philosophically impossible that the conception of the God-Man, the Saviour of the world, can have originated in any event of history...[I]t is a great religious creation which arose in the context of the mystery cults and was founded on earlier conceptions and vitalized by mystic illuminations. Its consequences were developed slowly and in sequence.\"\n\nGeorge Santayana (1863-1952) was an agnostic strongly influenced by Charles Darwin's evolution, who admired Lucretius and Spinoza. He had a soft attitude to religion, calling it the \"Spiritual Life\", and, as an \"aesthetic Catholic\", valuing the poetic and aesthetic benefits of belief to consciousness. He was sensitive to the major dilemma between accepting the skeptical findings of historical criticism (Jesus Christ was a myth), and saving the \"spiritual\" value of the \"Idea of Christ\". He thus shared some of Couchoud's dual ideas towards Christianity, and even some of Drews, who had claimed that the ideal Christ was a better object of cult for Christianity than a historic Christ.\n\"Your letter, accompanying Robertson's \"Jesus-Myth or History\", certainly represents just what I think on that subject, and I am pleased to see how clearly you put it. But there is the other side of the question, the \"positive\" history and appeal of the Idea of Christ, which Couchoud feels much more adequately than Robertson, and I was a bit disappointed in finding that Robertson had nothing to add in that direction; nor do the other recent writers he mentions seem to have any new lights. Couchoud is warmer; but on the other hand he does not inspire any confidence, whereas Robertson at least is cautious and reasonable in his conclusions. If I were younger, I should be tempted to write a companion volume, or counterblast, to my \"Idea of Christ in the Gospel\", in the form of \"Probabilities about Jesus in the Real World\". There is hardly any evidence, but there are suggestions that could be sifted and combined, to make a tragic picture. Somebody will doubtless do it some day: but will he be able to be both critical and inspired?\"\nCouchoud, as a psychiatrist, accepted the idea that a religious movement could originate with psychological events such as visions, interpreted by imagination, very close to the symptoms of some psychiatric diseases. As a matter of psychiatric interest, he wanted to visit a French female \"mystic\" (\"mystique\"), Marthe Robin (1902-1981), not far from Vienne, where he had retired. She was a female peasant, paralyzed since 1928 following undocumented mental traumas, and spending her life in bed, in a dark room, reportedly without food. She had claimed visions of the Virgin Mary, and having received the stigmata in 1930.\n\nJean Guitton (1901-1999), was also a philosophy graduate of the ENS, like Couchoud, and a disciple of Henri Bergson (yet another philosophy graduate of the ENS, and a 1927 Nobel Prize for Literature, 1859-1941). Guitton was a French Catholic philosopher interested in mysticism, and a friend of Couchoud. Guitton interceded with the local archbishop to overcome the resistance of the mystic's Catholic priest who was her \"spiritual director\" and allow visits by Couchoud. Guitton described his last conversation with Couchoud, discussing the mystic on the quay of the Vienne train station, when Couchoud recited a short poem about the mystic.\n\nGuitton later reported in his book, 26 years after Couchoud's death, that \"a quarter of an hour before his death, Couchoud received by chance the visit of a priest. He died \"in the faith\" [\"il mourut dans la foi\"], as I had the opportunity to say it at his funeral.\" This \"testimony\" by Jean Guitton became the source of a French legend that Couchoud would have \"converted\" on his deathbed, spread in print by most French publications.\n\nThe reliability of this account has been disputed by those who doubt that the philosopher/psychiatrist, who had been an admirer of Spinoza, a skeptical rationalist all his life, and a standard-bearer of the Christ Myth thesis, would have reversed his lifetime convictions during a short unverified conversation on his deathbed.\n\nThe value of a deathbed conversion is that it saves a soul from hell, in a Christian perspective. It also gives ammunition to believers for undermining the integrity of a Jesus's existence denier.\n\nThe thesis denying the historicity of Jesus has been abandoned by French academic studies since 1933, thanks to the critical work of the secular historian Charles Guignebert. Daniel Marguerat, a Swiss Protestant, former professor of NT at the University of Lausanne, wrote that: \"We are no longer in the age when Bruno Bauer (1840), or P. L. Couchoud (1937) went to great lengths to deny that Jesus had existed: Nowadays the debate is about the meaning of his actions, not his existence. Hermann Reimarus is the first source of doubts on the reliability of the Gospels' information on Jesus's life.\"\n\nÉtienne Trocmé, a Protestant, President of the Un. of Humanities in Strasbourg, said that \"these brilliant ideas of Couchoud’s have been easily refuted by Maurice Goguel ... and Alfred Loisy... They face two insurmountable difficulties: the absence of any denial of the existence of Jesus in ancient times — even among the opponents of Christianity and among those heretics that were the most eager to get rid of the humanity of Jesus — and then the Jewish and specifically Palestinian characteristics that abound in the Synoptic Gospels and make it impossible for them to be the belated creation of a largely Hellenized church. We wish the present epigones of Couchoud and Alfaric would stop rehashing arguments so entirely discredited, that even Soviet historians themselves do not support them any more\".\n\nA review of the French ideas about Jesus denial (French \"mythisme\") was presented by Charles Maignial, \"Quick remarks on mythicism in the history of religions and of faith.\"\n\nA reviewer of Stéphane’s book (1962), asked: \"Should we conclude that the question [of historicity] is no longer actual?... some argue that 'doubts about this matter do not deserve one word of rebuttal.'...[E]vidence of 'historical type' gives way to 'psychological' arguments... 'of sympathy': Is it necessary or not, to assume at the origin of all and every religion a historical figure?...[T]he question.. becomes 'placed in parenthesis,' which leads exegetes... to push the Jesus of history back into the shadows while vigorously spotlighting the Jesus of faith.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15953395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15953395", "title": "Religion in Laos", "text": "Religion in Laos\n\nLaos has an area of and contains a population of approximately 6.6 million. Almost all ethnic or \"lowland\" Lao (Lao Loum and Lao Lom) are followers of Theravada Buddhism; however, they constitute only 40-50% of the population. The remainder of the population belongs to at least 48 distinct ethnic minority groups. Most of these ethnic groups (30%) are practitioners of Laotian folk religion, with beliefs that vary greatly among groups.\n\nLaotian folk religion is predominant among most Lao Theung, Lao Sung, the Sino-Thai groups, such as the Thai Dam and Thai Daeng, as well as among Mon-Khmer and Tibeto-Burman groups. Even among lowland Lao, many pre-Buddhist \"phi\" religious beliefs have been incorporated into Theravada Buddhist practice. Catholics and Protestants constitute approximately 2% of the population. Other minority religious groups include those practicing the Bahá'í faith, Mahayana Buddhism, and Chinese folk religions. A very small number of citizens are atheist or agnostic.\n\nAlthough the Government prohibits foreigners from proselytizing, some resident foreigners associated with private businesses or nongovernmental organizations quietly engage in religious activity. The Lao Front for National Construction is in charge of religious affairs within the country and all religious organizations within Laos must register with it.\n\nBuddhism was introduced to Laos beginning in the eighth century by Mon Buddhist monks and was widespread by the fourteenth century. A number of Laotian kings were important patrons of Buddhism.\n\nBeginning in the late 1950s, the Pathet Lao attempted to convert monks to the leftist cause and to use the status of the sangha to influence the thoughts and attitudes of the populace. The effort was in many ways successful, despite efforts by the Royal Lao Government to place the sangha under close civil administrative control and to enlist monks in development and refugee assistance programs. Political scientist Stuart-Fox attributed the success of the Pathet Lao to the inability of the Lao Loum elite to integrate the monarchy, government, and sangha into a set of mutually supportive institutions. \n\nPopular resentment of the aristocracy, division of the sangha into two antagonistic sects, the low level of its religious education and discipline, and opposition to foreign (i.e., Western) influence all contributed to the receptiveness of many monks to Pathet Lao overtures. The politicization of the sangha by both sides lowered its status in the eyes of many, but its influence at the village level augmented popular support for the Pathet Lao political platform, which paved the way for the change in government in 1975.\n\nThe LPDR government's successful efforts to consolidate its authority also continues to influence Buddhism. In political seminars at all levels, the government taught that Marxism and Buddhism were basically compatible because both disciplines stated that all men are equal, and both aimed to end suffering. Political seminars further discouraged \"wasteful\" expenditures on religious activities of all kinds, because some monks were sent to political reeducation centers and others were forbidden to preach. \n\nThe renunciation of private property by the monks was seen as approaching the ideal of a future communist society. However, Buddhist principles of detachment and nonmaterialism are clearly at odds with the Marxist doctrine of economic development, and popular expenditures on religious donations for merit making are also seen as depriving the state of resources. Thus, although overtly espousing tolerance of Buddhism, the state undercut the authority and moral standing of the sangha by compelling monks to spread party propaganda and by keeping local monks from their traditional participation in most village decisions and activities. \n\nDuring this period of political consolidation, many monks left the sangha or fled to Thailand. Other pro-Pathet Lao monks joined the newly formed Lao United Buddhists Association, which replaced the former religious hierarchy. The numbers of men and boys being ordained declined abruptly, and many wat fell empty. Participation at weekly and monthly religious ceremonies also dropped off as villagers under the watchful eye of local political cadre were fearful of any behavior not specifically encouraged.\n\nThe nadir of Buddhism in Laos occurred around 1979, after which a strategic liberalization of policy occurred. Since that time, the number of monks has gradually increased, although as of 1993, the main concentrations continue to be in Vientiane and other Mekong Valley cities. Buddhist schools in the cities remain but have come to include a significant political component in the curriculum. Party officials are allowed to participate at Buddhist ceremonies and even to be ordained as monks to earn religious merit following the death of close relatives. The level of religious understanding and orthodoxy of the sangha, however, is no higher than it had been before 1975, when it was criticized by many as backward and unobservant of the precepts.\n\nFrom the late 1980s, stimulated as much by economic reform as political relaxation, donations to the wat and participation at Buddhist festivals began to increase sharply. Festivals at the village and neighborhood level became more elaborate, and the That Luang festival and fair, which until 1986 had been restricted to a three-day observance, lasted for seven days. Ordinations also increased, in towns and at the village level, and household ceremonies of blessing, in which monks were central participants, also began to recur.\n\nTheravada Buddhism is by far the most prominent organized religion in the country, with nearly 5,000 temples serving as the focus of religious practice as well as the center of community life in rural areas. In most lowland Lao villages, religious tradition remains strong. Most Buddhist men spend some part of their lives as monks in temples, even if only for a few days. \n\nThere are approximately 22,000 monks in the country, nearly 9,000 of whom have attained the rank of \"senior monk,\" indicating years of study in temples. In addition, there are approximately 450 nuns, generally older women who are widowed, residing in temples throughout the country. The Buddhist Church is under the direction of a supreme patriarch who resides in Vientiane and supervises the activities of the church's central office, the Ho Thammasaphat has the 20% of the populations.\n\nLao Buddhists belong to the Theravada tradition, based on the earliest teachings of the Buddha and preserved in Sri Lanka after Mahayana Buddhism branched off in the second century B.C. Theravada Buddhism is also the dominant school in neighboring Myanmar, Thailand and Cambodia.\n\nThat Luang, a Lao-style stupa, is the most sacred Buddhist monument in Laos and the location of the nationally important festival and fair in November.\n\nFor the Lao Loum, the wat is one of the two focal points of village life (the other is the school). The wat provides a symbol of village identity as well as a location for ceremonies and festivals. Prior to the establishment of secular schools, village boys received basic education from monks at the wat. Nearly every lowland village has a wat, and some have two. Minimally, a wat must have a residence building for the monks and novices (vihan), and a main building housing the Buddha statues (sim), which is used for secular village meetings as well as for prayer sessions. Depending on the wealth and contributions of the villagers, the buildings vary from simple wood and bamboo structures to large, ornate brick and concrete edifices decorated with colorful murals and tile roofs shaped to mimic the curve of the naga, the mythical snake or water dragon. An administrative committee made up of respected older men manages the financial and organizational affairs of the wat.\n\nBuddhist ceremonies generally do not mark events in a life- cycle, with the exception of death. Funerals may be quite elaborate if the family can afford it but are rather simple in rural settings. The body lies in a coffin at home for several days, during which monks pray, and a continual stream of visitors pay their respects to the family and share food and drink. After this period, the body is taken in the coffin to a cremation ground and burned, again attended by monks. The ashes are then interred in a small shrine on the wat grounds.\n\nAlthough officially incorporated into the dominant Mahanikai School of Buddhist Practice after 1975, the Thammayudh sect of Buddhism still maintains a following in the country. Abbots and monks of several temples, particularly in Vientiane, reportedly are followers of the Thammayudh School, which places greater emphasis on meditation and discipline.\n\nThere are four Mahayana Buddhist temples in Vientiane, two serving the ethnic Vietnamese community and two serving the ethnic Chinese community. Buddhist monks from Vietnam, China, and India have visited these temples freely to conduct services and minister to worshippers. There are at least four large Mahayana Buddhist pagodas in other urban centers and smaller Mahayana temples in villages near the borders of Vietnam and China.\n\nLaotian folk religion (Lao: ສາສນາຜີ \"sasna phi\", \"religion of the spirits\") is an overarching term for the ethnic religions practiced by 30.7% of the population of Laos. These religions are pantheistic and polytheistic, and involve classes of shamans.\n\nThe category comprehends traditions of the Lao and other Tai-Kadai people, the Khmu and other Mon-Khmer people, as well as religions of the Hmong-Mien (Hmongism and Yao Taoism), Tibeto-Burman, and other ethnic groups of Laos. Among the Lao, the Lao Loum and Lao Lom are predominantly Buddhist, while the Lao Theung and Lao Sung are predominantly folk religious.\n\nChristianity is a minority religion in Laos. There are three recognized Churches in Laos: the Lao Evangelical Church, the Seventh-day Adventist Church and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThere are approximately 45,000 members of the Roman Catholic Church, many of whom are ethnic Vietnamese, concentrated in major urban centers and surrounding areas along the Mekong River in the central and southern regions of the country. Catholicism is an established presence in five of the most populous central and southern provinces, and Catholics are able to worship openly. The church's activities are more circumscribed in the north. Church property in Luang Prabang was seized after 1975, and there is no longer a parsonage in that city. An informal Roman Catholic training center in Thakhek prepared a small number of priests to serve the Catholic community.\n\nApproximately 400 Protestant congregations conduct services throughout the country for a community that has grown rapidly in the past decade. Church officials estimate Protestants to number as many as 100,000. Many Protestants are members of ethnic Mon-Khmer groups, especially the Khmu in the north and the Brou in the central provinces. Numbers of Protestants also have expanded rapidly in the Hmong and Yao communities. \n\nIn urban areas, Protestantism has attracted many lowland Lao followers. Most Protestants are concentrated in Vientiane Municipality, in the provinces of Vientiane, Sayaboury, Luang Prabang, Xieng Khouang, Bolikhamsai, Savannakhet, Champassak, and Attapeu, as well as in the former Saisomboun Special Zone, but smaller congregations are located throughout the country. The LFNC officially recognizes only two Protestant groups - the Lao Evangelical Church and the Seventh-day Adventist Church - and requires all non-Catholic Christian groups to operate under one of these organizations. \n\nSeventh-day Adventists number slightly more than 1,000 country-wide, with congregations in Vientiane Municipality as well as Bokeo, Bolikhamsai, Champassak, Luang Prabang, and Xieng Khouang provinces. Christian denominations that have some following in the country, but which are not recognized by the Government, include the Methodists, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Church of Christ, Assemblies of God, Lutherans, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), and Baptists. Official membership numbers are not available.\n\nLaos used to be part of the Khmer Empire and has some remaining Hindu temples.\n\nSmall groups of followers of Confucianism and Taoism practice their beliefs in the larger cities.\n"}
{"id": "1359027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359027", "title": "Revenant", "text": "Revenant\n\nA revenant is a visible ghost or animated corpse that is believed to have revived from death to haunt the living. The word \"revenant\" is derived from the Old French word, \"revenant\", the \"returning\" (see also the related French verb \"revenir\", meaning \"to come back\").\n\nMany stories were documented by English historians in the Middle Ages. William of Newburgh wrote during the 1190s, \"It would not be easy to believe that the corpses of the dead should sally (I know not by what agency) from their graves, and should wander about to the terror or destruction of the living, and again return to the tomb, which of its own accord spontaneously opened to receive them, did not frequent examples, occurring in our own times, suffice to establish this fact, to the truth of which there is abundant testimony.\"\n\nMedieval European stories of revenants have some common features. Those who revive from the dead are typically wrongdoers in their lifetime, often described as wicked, vain, or unbelievers. Often the revenants are associated with the spreading of disease among the living. The appropriate response is usually exhumation, followed by some form of decapitation, and burning or removal of the heart.\n\nSeveral stories state that revenants drink blood. For example, in Historia rerum Anglicarum the corpse of one revenant is reported to have been found in the grave, swollen and \"suffused with blood\". When it was pierced, a stream of blood flew out of the wound. This part of the story is paralleled in many accounts of alleged vampires, and the phenomenon it depicts is, in fact, known to occur frequently as part of the natural process of corpse decomposition. Revenants are therefore another example of the widespread historical belief in vampires.\n\nAugustin Calmet conducted extensive research on the topic in his work titled \"Traité sur les apparitions des esprits et sur les vampires ou les revenans de Hongrie, de Moravie, &c.\" (1751) in which he relates the rumors of men at the time:\n\nCalmet compares the ideas of the Greek and Egyptian ancients and discovers the old belief that magic could not only cause death but also evoke the souls of the deceased as well. Revenants were then ascribed to sorcerers who sucked the blood of victims, inevitably causing their death. He further states how some instances of Revenants mentioned in the twelfth century in England and Denmark were similar to those of Hungary but \"in no history do we read anything so usual or so pronounced, as what is related to us of the vampires of Poland, Hungary, and Moravia.\"\n\nCalmet claims that during his lifetime during the mid-1700s, the Greeks contested that bodies of the excommunicated would not decay in their graves or tombs. Modern day and past Greeks have reported that these bodies are black in appearance with long nails. The Eastern Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, and Oriental Orthodoxy all believe in bodies of saints not decomposing as a sign of sainthood. He explains \"that the incorruptibility of a body was rather a probable mark of the sanctity of the person and a proof of the particular protection of God, extended to a body which during its lifetime had been the temple of the Holy Spirit, and of one who had retained in justice and innocence the mark of Christianity.\"\n\nKing James of Britain wrote in his dissertation of \"Daemonologie\" the idea that a demonic entity could possess a dead body and have sexual relations with women, being one of the methods used by incubi.\n\nSimilarities are also obvious with the aptrgangr (literally \"again-walker\", meaning one who walks after death) of Norse mythology, although the aptrgangr, or \"draugr\", is usually much more powerful, possessing magical abilities and most notably is not confined to a deathlike sleep during the day—although it does usually stay in its burial mound during the daylight hours—and will resist intruders, which renders the destruction of its body a dangerous affair to be undertaken by individual heroes. Consequently, stories involving the \"aptrgangr\" often involve direct confrontations with the creature, in which it often reveals to be immune to conventional weapons. Such elements are absent from the revenant lore, where the body is engaged in its inert state in daylight, and rendered harmless.\n\nIn Finnish ghost stories, the undead are revenants: ghosts (\"kummitus, aave\") are usually visually indistinguishable from the living, and usually they are first mistaken for the living at first. They are often well-dressed, up to being out of place. The protagonists may react with annoyance and try to chase the intruder out, only realizing it was a ghost later. Their undead nature is betrayed by their odd behavior, like appearing in unlikely places, not speaking, being oblivious to being seen, or by supernatural events like sudden appearances and disappearances, bilocation, mystically reappearing uninjured and in normal dress after being buried, or being animated and speaking with fatal injuries like decapitation. They are typically explained as restless souls of people who have met a violent death. Etiäinen, a type of bilocation, is a related tradition. For example, dying people can be seen as apparitions by their loved ones at or around the moment of death, regardless of distance. They may also manifest themselves only as odd, out-of-place sounds and footprints.\n\nAlso references of revenant-like beings come from the Caribbean and are often referred to as \"The soucouyant\" or \"soucriant\" in Dominica, Trinidadian and Guadeloupean folklore (also known as Ole-Higue or Loup-garou elsewhere in the Caribbean).\n\nWilliam of Newburgh (1136?–1198?) wrote of a number of cases \"...as a warning to posterity.\" He says these stories were very common and that \"were I to write down all the instances of this kind which I have ascertained to have befallen in our times, the undertaking would be beyond measure laborious and troublesome.\"\n\nOne story involves a man of \"evil conduct\" absconding from justice, who fled from York and made the ill-fated choice to get married. Becoming jealous of his wife, he hid in the rafters of his bedroom and caught her in an act of infidelity with a local young man, but then accidentally fell to the floor mortally wounding himself, and died a few days later. As Newburgh describes:\nA Christian burial, indeed, he received, though unworthy of it; but it did not much benefit him: for issuing, by the handiwork of Satan, from his grave at night-time, and pursued by a pack of dogs with horrible barkings, he wandered through the courts and around the houses while all men made fast their doors, and did not dare to go abroad on any errand whatever from the beginning of the night until the sunrise, for fear of meeting and being beaten black and blue by this vagrant monster.\nA number of the townspeople were killed by the monster and so:\nThereupon snatching up a spade of but indifferent sharpness of edge, and hastening to the cemetery, they began to dig; and whilst they were thinking that they would have to dig to a greater depth, they suddenly, before much of the earth had been removed, laid bare the corpse, swollen to an enormous corpulence, with its countenance beyond measure turgid and suffused with blood; while the napkin in which it had been wrapped appeared nearly torn to pieces. The young men, however, spurred on by wrath, feared not, and inflicted a wound upon the senseless carcass, out of which incontinently flowed such a stream of blood, that it might have been taken for a leech filled with the blood of many persons. Then, dragging it beyond the village, they speedily constructed a funeral pile; and upon one of them saying that the pestilential body would not burn unless its heart were torn out, the other laid open its side by repeated blows of the blunted spade, and, thrusting in his hand, dragged out the accursed heart. This being torn piecemeal, and the body now consigned to the flames...\nIn another story Newburgh tells of a woman whose husband recently died. The husband revives from the dead and comes to visit her at night in her bedchamber and he \"...not only terrified her on awaking, but nearly crushed her by the insupportable weight of his body.\" This happens for three nights, and the revenant then repeats these nocturnal visits with other nearby family and neighbours and \"...thus become a like serious nuisance,\" eventually extending his walks in the broad daylight around the village. Eventually the problem was solved by the bishop of Lincoln who wrote a letter of absolution, upon which the man's tomb was opened wherein it was seen his body was still there, the letter was placed on his chest, and the tomb re-interred and sealed.\n\nThe English Abbot of Burton tells the story of two runaway peasants from about 1090 who died suddenly of unknown causes and were buried, but:\nthe very same day in which they were interred they appeared at evening, while the sun was still up, carrying on their shoulders the wooden coffins in which they had been buried. The whole following night they walked through the paths and fields of the village, now in the shape of men carrying wooden coffins on their shoulders, now in the likeness of bears or dogs or other animals. They spoke to the other peasants, banging on the walls of their houses and shouting \"Move quickly, move! Get going! Come!\"\nThe villagers became sick and started dying, but eventually the bodies of the revenants were exhumed, their heads cut off, and their hearts removed, which ended the spread of the sickness.\n\nThe chronicler Walter Map, a Welshman writing during the 12th century, tells of a \"wicked man\" in Hereford who revived from the dead and wandered the streets of his village at night calling out the names of those who would die of sickness within three days. The response by bishop Gilbert Foliot was \"Dig up the body and cut off the head with a spade, sprinkle it with holy water and re-inter it\".\n"}
{"id": "10520242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10520242", "title": "Sabus", "text": "Sabus\n\nSabus is a character in the mythology of the Sabines of Italy, the son of the god Sancus (called by some Jupiter Fidius). According to Cato, writing in his work \"Origines\", the Sabines took their name from his. \n\nHowever, Zenodotus of Troezen holds that the Sabines took their name from the already-existing name of their place of habitation. And according to contemporary legend (unsubstantiated and presumably untrue), the Sabines were descendants of Spartan colonists led by a person named Sabus, and took their name from him.\n\nAccording to Henry Alleyne Nicholson, Sabus is related to the Egyptian Sobek and other entities from other cultures.\n"}
{"id": "22814368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22814368", "title": "Sanatan Sanstha", "text": "Sanatan Sanstha\n\nThe Sanatan Sanstha is a political Hindu group in India. It was founded in 1999 by 'hypnotherapist' Jayant Balaji Athavale. The group states its main aim as presenting spirituality in a scientific language for the curious (Jigyasu) and guiding seekers. The organization has a chain of centres in different parts of India as well as abroad.\n\nAthavale purports to work in the field of spirituality with a goal of gaining understanding of the spiritual dimension using a \"scientific approach.\" To this end, he has published more than 6.5 million copies of spiritual books in Hindi, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati, English and ten other languages. Sanstan Sanstha also publish four editions of Daily, weekly & fortnightly in two languages and a Monthly. \"News Today\" columnist V. Sundaram described Athavale as a \"rare spirit who brings to ordinary men a realization of their own divinity and makes spiritual life seem adventurous and attractive, so that they may go forth into the world with a new interest and a new joy at heart.\" He claims that Athavale's work has been recognized by Hindu saints and sages belonging to all denominations.\n\nPersons owing allegiance to Sanatan Sanstha have been arrested in four bombings in Vashi, Thane, Panvel (all in 2007) and Goa (in 2009) and in the murders of Narendra Dabholkar (in 2013), Govind Pansare and M. M. Kalburgi (both in 2015). This has led to calls for Sanatan Sanstha to be banned. However, Such claims are ruled out by Maharashtra Minister of State for Home, Karnataka CID, Goa chief minister and Central Home Ministry. In 2015, Minister of state for home for Government of India informed in Rajya Sabha that, no links could be found among the murders of Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare and M. M. Kalburgi and there was no proposal to ban Sanatan Sanstha. Dabholkar's family is claiming the link between the three murders and requesting court to club the cases. However, Central Bureau of Investigation have informed High Court that it is waiting for the ballistic report from Scotland Yard to link all three cases. In 2018, explosives and firearms were seized from a Sanatan Sanstha worker's house in Maharashtra and 4 persons were arrested on charges of terrorism.\n\n\"Dharma has no birth and death. Intermittently when it is ruined then it marks the beginning of development. Sanatan Sanstha too has been promoting dharma by imbibing its importance of dharmacharan (righteous conduct), on the society with great efforts.\" According to the website of Sanatan Sanstha's Hindu Janajagruti Samiti (HJS) branch, Jayendra Saraswathi, the Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham, made the above statement during his visit to the Panvel ashram of Sanatan Sanstha on 10 June 2009, and blessed the society saying that its mission would spread throughout the entire country. Saraswathi attended the 117th Hindu Dharmajagruthi Sabha organised by HJS in Chennai on the 19 April 2009 and guided the masses.\n\nOn 24 May 2009 Taponidhi Nandgiri from the \"Shanaishwar\" temple in Solashi blessed Sanatan Sanstha, saying that Athavale's \"mission of the establishment of righteousness is being undertaken throughout the entire Universe!\"\n\nAccording to promoters, the main objective of these conferences is to create a feeling of unity and fraternal solidarity amongst all Hindus, cutting across different sects and sub-sects and to create a new sense of awareness of the relevance, greatness and significance of Sanatan Dharma. In order to achieve this objective, the focus will be on specially designed programmes to raise the levels of public enlightenment relating to the Vedas, Upanishads, Brahma Sutras, Bhagawad Gita and other Hindu scriptures. As of April 2009, 117 such conferences had been conducted by HJS in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Thousands of Hindus were said to have participated in these \"Hindu Awakening\" conferences with commitment, conviction, gusto and enthusiasm.\n\nOne of the men from the media who attended the Hindu Dharmajagruti Sabha at Barshi wrote: \"HJS has been organizing 'Hindu Dharmajagruti Sabhas' in various places in the State for creating awareness among Hindus about the importance of 'Dharma-shikshan' and 'Dharmacharan', for uniting Hindus and re-establishing the supremacy of Hindu Dharma. Today’s meeting, which was a unification of 'kshatra-teja' and 'Brahma-teja', was a memorable experience for people from Barshi\".\n\nFrom 15 December 2008, the \"Dharmasatsang\" and \"Dharmashikshanvarga\" (educating people in society regarding Dharma) presented by the Sanatan Sanstha and the HJS started being telecast 5 days a week on the spiritual television channel \"Sree Sankara\". This channel was inaugurated by Shankaracharya Jayendra Saraswathi of Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham on 21 December 2008. The Governor of Karnataka, Rameshwar Thakur was the chief guest at the function. During this function Saraswati blessed the mission of Sanatan and felicitated Pruthviraj Hazare, the group editor of \"Sanatan Prabhat\" periodicals.\n\nSanatan Sanstha is making use of spirituality and religiosity teachings in eradicating the negative influences, in the mind of Hindu youth.\n\nSanatan Sanstha is fighting the court cases against denigration of Hindu sentiments. Court Cases against M. F. Husain for hurting Hindu sentiments was one of the classic example of fighting denigration in Constitutional and peaceful way.\n\n\"Shanaishwar Devasthan\", Solashi, Satara District, Maharashtra has honored Athavale with a \"Shanaishwar Krutadnyata Dharma Award\" on 24 May 2009. It was presented by Taponidhi Nandgiri Maharaj. As stated by Maharaj the award was presented to Athavale for giving people a treasure-trove of spiritual knowledge presenting a scientific viewpoint on various religious acts performed by Hindus and has taken thousands of seekers to the pinnacle of spiritual progress.\n\nIn 2008, six persons owing allegiance to Sanatan Sanstha were arrested for planting bombs in auditoriums at Thane and Vashi and in a movie theater at Panvel. In 2011, two of the accused were found guilty and sentenced to ten years incarceration. Ramesh Gadkari and Vikram Bhave were acquitted of the terror charges under the stringent UAPA, however, the state government's appeal against the removal of UAPA is still pending in the High Court. The Maharashtra government has sought to ban the organization, and has pressed the case for a ban to the central government as well. A central government investigation of the group was ongoing. On 2 December 2015, the Minister of Home Affairs stated in the upper house (Rajya Sabha) that there was no proposal to ban Sanatan Sanstha.\n\nThe organization's public image was sullied by allegations of involvement in unlawful activities. Hence it started a series of public meetings in different cities in Maharashtra to dispel what it called \"misunderstandings\".\n\nOn 30 August 2011, Ramesh Gadkari and Vikram Bhave were convicted in sessions court of the Thane blasts and sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment. Judgment of trail court was further challenged in the Bombay (Mumbai) High Court and on 2 May 2013 that court ordered the release of the accused on bail while awaiting hearing.\n\nSix members of the Sanstha arrested in the Goa blast case under UAPA were acquitted by the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court for want of evidence, while UAPA remains in force against three Sanstha members who are absconding. Rudra Patil and Sandeep Arolkar or Sarang Akolkar alias Kulkarni were declared absconders by the NIA, with a red corner notice issued against Patil.\n\nA member of the Sanatan Sanstha was arrested for the murder of Govind Pansare. The Special Investigation Team investigating the murder, arrested Sanstha member Sameer Gaikwad and was on the lookout for another member Rudra Patil, who is absconding since the 2009 Goa blast.\nThe prosecution stated in court that Sameer Gaikwad was in different city (Thane) around the time of the murder of Govind Pansare. Minister of Home Affairs Ranjit Patil claimed that the arrest of Sameer Gaikwad was based only on suspicion, and that the only proof is a cellphone conversation about killing Pansare. Eventually, it was revealed that the evidence against Gaikwad is strong, as he was present at the scene of the crime, and he had discussed the murder with other Sanatan Sanstha members. Sanatan Sanstha was also planning to create a 15,000-strong armed force.\n\nIndian investigative agencies believe that the Sanatan Sanstha is implicated in the murder of Narendra Dabholkar.\n\nIn June 2016, Virendrasinh Tawade,a member of Hindu Janjagruti Samiti (HJS), an offshoot of Sanatan Sanstha, was arrested in connection with the murder. An official of the CBI revealed that emails exchanged between Tawade and his underground colleague Sarang Akolkar, from 2008 to 2013, discuss procurement of weapons and establishment of a weapon-manufacturing unit.\n\nMLA Vishnu Wagh has said that there is evidence of the Sanstha's involvement in the murder of Kannada scholar M. M. Kalburgi. On 16 October 2015, the Karnataka CID team said that they didn't see involvement of Sanatan's activist Sameer Gaikwad in the murder of Kalburgi and so they were not going to seek his custody for any further investigation.\n\nSanatan members were suspected of involvement in the murder of Gauri Lankesh in 2017. They are being investigated and have been questioned by the Special Investigation Team probing the murder. Forensic analysis has shown that the same pistol was used to kill Kalburgi, and is also possibly the same gun that was used to kill Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. Sanatan was implicated in all these murders. However, its representative denied having a hand in the murder of Gauri Lankesh. An article in The Indian Express mentions that \"at least three forensics laboratories — Chandigarh, Hyderabad and Gujarat — are equipped to study signatures through an integrated bullet identification system\". The article also says that the Karnataka police are investigating if the Gauri Lankesh murder has any connection to three previous murders attributed to the Sanstha.\n\nPublic interest litigations were filed in the Bombay High Court seeking a ban on the organisation, stating that it uses Ericksonian hypnosis to lure people into joining it and to carry out acts of violence. Such claims are rejected by Hamid Dabholkar, son of slain rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, saying that hypnotism could not provoke a person to cause violence and instead pointing at radicalization as the means of influence.\n\nIn August 2018, Maharashtra Anti Terror Squad (ATS) had recovered 20 crude bombs, two gelatin sticks, 4 electronic and 22 non-electronic detonators, 150 grams explosive powder, two bottles labelled 'poison', batteries, soldering equipment, and a bomb circuit drawing from the house of Sanathan Sanstha worker Vaibhav Raut in Nallasopara Explosives and firearms were seized from Nallasopara, Pune and Solapur, and three other men, Sharad Kalaskar, Sudhanwa Gondhalekar and Shrikant Pangarkar were also arrested.\n\nAn Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) officer said after members of the right-wing outfit were arrested in connection Dabholkar’s murder \"Members of Sanatan Sanstha are ‘hard nuts to crack’, who communicate in code languages and have networks in at least four prominent cities of Maharashtra. They also have an 84-page rule book that asks them to 'chant Lord's name' before shooting a target\". “They don’t speak unless confronted with evidence. They are indoctrinated, tutored, and given elaborate directions. It is not easy to extract information from them,” an officer involved in the probe told CNN-News18 on condition of anonymity.\n\nIn September 2016, the Maharashtra police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the February 2015 murder of communist leader Govind Pansare, seized 20 boxes of restricted drugs — including sleeping pills and suppressants — from the premises Sanatan Sanstha’s ashram in Panvel. An SIT official stated that \"It is suspected that the drugs were being used to control the mind of followers at the ashram\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Samajwadi Party demanded that Sanatan Sanstha be banned and asked the government to heighten security.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310584", "title": "Slavic paganism", "text": "Slavic paganism\n\nSlavic paganism or Slavic religion define the religious beliefs, godlores and ritual practices of the Slavs before the formal Christianisation of their ruling elites. The latter occurred at various stages between the 8th and the 13th century: The Southern Slavs living on the Balkan Peninsula in South Eastern Europe, bordering with the Byzantine Empire to the south, came under the sphere of influence of Byzantine Orthodox Christianity, beginning with the creation of the Slavic alphabet (first Glagolic, and then Cyrillic script) in 855 by the brothers Saints Cyril and Methodius and the adoption of Christianity in Bulgaria in 863 CE. The East Slavs followed with the official adoption in 988 CE by Vladimir the Great of Kievan Rus'.\n\nThe West Slavs came under the sphere of influence of the Roman Catholic Church since the 12th century, and Christianisation for them went hand in hand with full or partial Germanisation.\n\nThe Christianisation of the Slavic peoples was, however, a slow and—in many cases—superficial phenomenon, especially in what is today Russia. Christianisation was vigorous in western and central parts of what is today Ukraine, as they were closer to the capital Kiev, but even there, popular resistance led by \"volkhv\"s, pagan priests or shamans, recurred periodically for centuries. Even though the Byzantine Christianization firstly has slowed down the Eastern Slavic traditions in Rus', it has preserved the Slavic traditions in the long term. While local Slavic figures and myths, such as Baba Roga in Croatia were forgotten, Slavic culture continued to exist and even flourish in the Eastern Slavic countries. In the case of a Christian Latinization of the Eastern Slavic countries, this may not have been the case.\n\nThe West Slavs of the Baltic withstood tenaciously against Christianity until it was violently imposed on them through the Northern Crusades. In Bohemia, shortly after the country's official Christianisation in the late 9th century, a popular anti-Christian rebellion broke out. Among Poles and East Slavs, rebellion outbreaks occurred throughout the 11th century. Christian chroniclers reported that the Slavs regularly re-embraced their original religion (\"relapsi sunt denuo ad paganismus\").\n\nMany elements of the indigenous Slavic religion were officially incorporated into Slavic Christianity, and, besides this, the worship of Slavic gods has persisted in unofficial folk religion until modern times. The Slavs' resistance to Christianity gave rise to a \"whimsical syncretism\" which in Old Church Slavonic vocabulary was defined as \"dvoeverie\", \"double faith\". Since the early 20th century, Slavic folk religion has undergone an organised reinvention and reincorporation in the movement of Slavic Native Faith (Rodnovery).\n\nTwentieth-century scholars who pursued the study of ancient Slavic religion include Vyacheslav Ivanov, Vladimir Toporov, Marija Gimbutas, Boris Rybakov, and Roman Jakobson amongst others. Rybakov is noted for his effort of re-examination of medieval ecclesiastical texts, synthesising his findings with archaeological data, comparative mythology, ethnography and nineteenth-century folk practices, and for having given one of the most coherent pictures of ancient Slavic religion in his major book \"Paganism of the Ancient Slavs\" and other works. Among earlier, nineteenth-century scholars there was Bernhard Severin Ingemann, known for his study of \"Fundamentals of a North Slavic and Wendish mythology\".\n\nHistorical documents about Slavic religion include the \"Primary Chronicle\", compiled in Kiev around 1111, and the \"Novgorod First Chronicle\" compiled in the Novgorod Republic. They contain detailed reports of the annihilation of the official Slavic religion of Kiev and Novgorod, and the subsequent \"double faith\". The \"Primary Chronicle\" also contains the authentic text of Rus-Greek treatises (dated 945 and 971) with native pre-Christian oaths. From the eleventh century onwards, various Rus writings were produced against the survival of Slavic religion, and Slavic gods were interpolated in the translations of foreign literary works, such as the \"Malalas Chronicle\" and the \"Alexandreis\".\n\nThe West Slavs who dwelt in the area between the Vistula and the Elbe stubbornly resisted the Northern Crusades, and the history of their resistance is written down in the \"Latin Chronicles\" of three German clergymen—Thietmar of Merseburg and Adam of Bremen in the eleventh century and Helmold in the twelfth—, in the twelfth-century biographies of Otto of Bamberg, and in Saxo Grammaticus' thirteenth-century \"Gesta Danorum\". These documents, together with minor German documents and the Icelandic \"Knýtlinga saga\", provide an accurate description of northwestern Slavic religion.\n\nThe religions of other Slavic populations are less documented, because writings about the theme were produced late in time after Christianisation, such as the fifteenth-century \"Polish Chronicle\", and contain a lot of sheer inventions. In the times preceding Christianisation, some Greek and Roman chroniclers, such as Procopius and Jordanes in the sixth century, sparsely documented some Slavic concepts and practices. Slavic paganism survived, in more or less pure forms, among the Slovenes along the Soča river up to the 1330s.\n\nThe linguistic unity, and negligible dialectal differentiation, of the Slavs until the end of the first millennium CE, and the lexical uniformity of religious vocabulary, witness a uniformity of early Slavic religion. It has been argued that the essence of early Slavdom was ethnoreligious before being ethnonational; that is to say, belonging to the Slavs was chiefly determined by conforming to certain beliefs and practices rather than by having a certain racial ancestry or being born in a certain place. Ivanov and Toporov identified Slavic religion as an outgrowth of a common Proto-Indo-European religion, sharing strong similarities with other neighbouring Indo-European belief systems such as those of Balts, Thracians, Phrygians and Indo-Iranians. Slavic (and Baltic) religion and mythology is considered more conservative and closer to original Proto-Indo-European religion—and thus precious for the latter's understanding—than other Indo-European traditions, due to the fact that, throughout the history of the Slavs, it remained a popular religion rather than being reworked and sophisticated by intellectual elites as it happened to other Indo-European religious cultures.\n\nThe affinity with Proto-Indo-Iranian religion is evident in shared developments, including the elimination of the name of the supreme God of Heaven, *\"Dyeus\", and its substitution by the term for \"cloud\" (Slavic \"Nebo\"), the shift of the Indo-European descriptor of heavenly deities (Avestan \"daeva\", Old Church Slavonic \"div\"; Proto-Indo-European *\"deiwos\", \"celestial\", derived from \"Dyeus\") to the designation of evil entities, and the parallel designation of gods by the term meaning both \"wealth\" and its \"giver\" (Avestan \"baga\", Old Church Slavonic \"bog\"). Much of the religious vocabulary of the Slavs, including \"vera\" (\"faith\", right choice between good and evil), \"svet\" (\"holy\"), \"mir\" (\"peace\", \"agreement of parts\") and \"rai\" (\"paradise\"), is shared with Iranian.\n\nAccording to Adrian Ivakhiv, the Indo-European element of Slavic religion may have included what Georges Dumézil studied as the \"trifunctional hypothesis\", that is to say a threefold conception of the social order, represented by the three castes of priests, warriors and farmers. According to Gimbutas Slavic religion represented an unmistakable overlapping of Indo-European patriarchal themes and pre-Indo-European—or what she called \"Old European\"—matrifocal themes. The latter were particularly hardwearing in Slavic religion, represented by the widespread devotion to \"Mat Syra Zemlya\", the \"Damp Mother Earth\". Rybakov said the continuity and gradual complexification of Slavic religion, which started from devotion to life-giving forces (\"bereginy\"), ancestors and the supreme God, \"Rod\" (\"Generation\" itself), and developed into the \"high mythology\" of the official religion of the early Kievan Rus'.\n\nAs attested by Helmold ( 1120–1177) in his \"Chronica Slavorum\", the Slavs believed in a single heavenly God begetting all the lesser spirits governing nature, and worshipped it by their means. According to Helmold, \"obeying the duties assigned to them, [the deities] have sprung from his [the supreme God's] blood and enjoy distinction in proportion to their nearness to the god of the gods\". According to Rybakov's studies, wheel symbols such as the \"thunder marks\" (\"gromovoi znak\") and the \"six-petaled rose inside a circle\" (e.g. ), which are so common in Slavic folk crafts, and which were still carved on edges and peaks of roofs in northern Russia in the nineteenth century, were symbols of the supreme life-giver Rod. Before its conceptualisation as Rod as studied by Rybakov, this supreme God was known as \"Deivos\" (cognate with Sanskrit \"Deva\", Latin \"Deus\", Old High German \"Ziu\" and Lithuanian \"Dievas\"). The Slavs believed that from this God proceeded a cosmic duality, represented by \"Belobog\" (\"White God\") and \"Chernobog\" (\"Black God\", also named \"Tiarnoglofi\", \"Black Head/Mind\"), representing the root of all the heavenly-masculine and the earthly-feminine deities, or the waxing light and waning light gods, respectively. In both categories, deities might be either \"Razi\", \"rede-givers\", or \"Zirnitra\", \"wizards\".\n\nThe Slavs perceived the world as enlivened by a variety of spirits, which they represented as persons and worshipped. These spirits included those of waters (\"mavka\" and \"rusalka\"), forests (\"lisovyk\"), fields (\"polyovyk\"), those of households (\"domovyk\"), those of illnesses, luck and human ancestors. For instance, \"Leshy\" is an important woodland spirit, believed to distribute food assigning preys to hunters, later regarded as a god of flocks and herds, and still worshipped in this function in early twentieth-century Russia. Many gods were regarded by kins (\"rod\" or \"pleme\") as their ancestors, and the idea of ancestrality was so important that Slavic religion may be epitomised as a \"manism\" (i.e. worship of ancestors), though the Slavs did not keep genealogical records. The Slavs also worshipped star-gods, including the moon (Russian: \"Mesyats\") and the sun (\"Solntse\"), the former regarded as male and the latter as female. The moon-god was particularly important, regarded as the dispenser of abundance and health, worshipped through round dances, and in some traditions considered the progenitor of mankind. The belief in the moon-god was still very much alive in the nineteenth century, and peasants in the Ukrainian Carpathians openly affirm that the moon is their god.\n\nThere was an evident continuity between the beliefs of the East Slavs, West Slavs and South Slavs. They shared the same traditional deities, as attested, for instance, by the worship of \"Zuarasiz\" among the West Slavs, corresponding to \"Svarožič\" among the East Slavs. All the bright male deities were regarded as the hypostases, forms or phases in the year, of the active, masculine divine force personified by \"Perun\" (\"Thunder\"). His name, from the Indo-European root *\"per\" or *\"perk\" (\"to strike\", \"splinter\"), signified both the splintering thunder and the splintered tree (especially the oak; the Latin name of this tree, \"quercus\", comes from the same root), regarded as symbols of the irradiation of the force. This root also gave rise to the Vedic \"Parjanya\", the Baltic \"Perkunas\", the Albanian \"Perëndi\" (now denoting \"God\" and \"sky\"), the Germanic \"Fjörgynn\" and the Greek \"Keraunós\" (\"thunderbolt\", rhymic form of *\"Peraunós\", used as an epithet of Zeus). \"Prĕgyni\" or \"peregyni\", in modern Russian folklore rendered \"bregynja\" or \"beregynja\" (from \"breg\", \"bereg\", meaning \"shore\") and reinterpreted as female water spirits, were rather—as attested by chronicles and highlighted by the root *\"per\"—spirits of trees and rivers related to Perun. Slavic traditions preserved very ancient Indo-European elements and intermingled with those of neighbouring Indo-European peoples. An exemplary case are the South Slavic still-living rain rituals of the couple \"Perun\"–\"Perperuna\", Lord and Lady Thunder, shared with the neighbouring Albanians, Greeks and Arumanians, corresponding to the Germanic \"Fjörgynn\"–\"Fjörgyn\", the Lithuanian \"Perkūnas\"–\"Perkūna\", and finding similarities in the Vedic hymns to \"Parjanya\".\n\nThe West Slavs, especially those of the Baltic, worshipped prominently \"Svetovid\" (\"Lord of Power\"), while the East Slavs worshipped prominently Perun himself, especially after Vladimir's 970s–980s reforms. The various spirits were believed to manifest in certain places, which were revered as numinous and holy; they included springs, rivers, groves, rounded tops of hills and flat cliffs overlooking rivers. Calendrical rituals were attuned with the spirits, which were believed to have periods of waxing and waning throughout the year, determining the agrarian fertility cycle.\n\nThe cosmology of ancient Slavic religion, which is preserved in contemporary Slavic folk religion, is visualised as a three-tiered vertical structure, or \"world tree\", as common in other Indo-European religions. At the top there is the heavenly plane, symbolised by birds, the sun and the moon; the middle plane is that of earthly humanity, symbolised by bees and men; at the bottom of the structure there is the netherworld, symbolised by snakes and beavers, and by the chthonic god \"Veles\". The Zbruch Idol (which was identified at first as a representation of Svetovid), found in western Ukraine, represents this theo-cosmology: the three-layered effigy of the four major deities—\"Perun\", \"Dazhbog\", \"Mokosh\" and \"Lada\"—is constituted by a top level with four figures representing them, facing the four cardinal directions; a middle level with representations of a human ritual community (\"khorovod\"); and a bottom level with the representation of a three-headed chthonic god, Veles, who sustains the entire structure.\n\nThe scholar Jiří Dynda studied the figure of \"Triglav\" (literally the \"Three-Headed One\") and Svetovid, which are widely attested in archaeological testimonies, as the respectively three-headed and four-headed representations of the same \"axis mundi\", of the same supreme God. Triglav itself was connected to the symbols of the tree and the mountain, which are other common symbols of the \"axis mundi\", and in this quality he was a \"summus deus\" (a sum of all things), as recorded by Ebbo ( 775–851). Triglav represents the vertical interconnection of the three worlds, reflected by the three social functions studied by Dumézil: sacerdotal, martial and economic. Ebbo himself documented that the Triglav was seen as embodying the connection and mediation between Heaven, Earth and the underworld. Adam of Bremen ( 1040s–1080s) described the Triglav of Wolin as \"Neptunus triplicis naturae\" (that is to say \"Neptune of the three natures/generations\") attesting the colours that were associated to the three worlds, also studied by Karel Jaromír Erben (1811–1870): white for Heaven, green for Earth and black for the underworld. It also represents the three dimensions of time, mythologically rendered in the figure of a three-threaded rope. Triglav is Perun in the heavenly plane, Svetovid in the centre from which the horizontal four directions unfold, and Veles the psychopomp in the underworld. Svetovid is interpreted by Dynda as the incarnation of the \"axis mundi\" in the four dimensions of space. Helmold defined Svetovid as \"deus deorum\" (\"god of all gods\").\n\nBesides Triglav and Svetovid, other deities were represented with many heads. This is attested by chroniclers who wrote about West Slavs, including Saxo Grammaticus ( 1160–1220). According to him, \"Rugievit\" in Charenza was represented with seven faces, which converged at the top in a single crown. These three-, four- or many-headed images, wooden or carved in stone, some covered in metal, which held drinking horns and were decorated with solar symbols and horses, were kept in temples, of which numerous archaeological remains have been found. They were built on upraised platforms, frequently on hills, but also at the confluences of rivers. The biographers of Otto of Bamberg (1060/1061–1139) inform that these temples were known as \"continae\", \"dwellings\", among West Slavs, testifying that they were regarded as the houses of the gods. They were wooden buildings with an inner cell with the god's statue, located in wider walled enclosures or fortifications; such fortifications might contain up to four \"continae\". Different \"continae\" were owned by different kins, and used for the ritual banquets in honour of their own ancestor-gods. These ritual banquets are known variously, across Slavic countries, as \"bratchina\" (from \"brat\", \"brother\"), \"mol'ba\" (\"entreaty\", \"supplication\") and \"kanun\" (short religious service) in Russia; \"slava\" (\"glorification\") in Serbia; \"sobor\" (\"assembly\") and \"kurban\" (\"sacrifice\") in Bulgaria. With Christianisation, the ancestor-gods were replaced with Christian patron saints.\n\nThere were also holy places with no buildings, where the deity was believed to manifest in nature itself; such locations were characterised by the combined presence of trees and springs, according to the description of one such sites in Stettin by Otto of Bamberg. A shrine of the same type in Kobarid, contemporary Slovenia, was stamped out in a \"crusade\" as recently as 1331. Usually, common people were not allowed into the presence of the images of their gods, the sight of which was a privilege of the priests. Many of these images were seen and described only in the moment of their violent destruction at the hands of the Christian missionaries. The priests (\"volkhv\"s), who kept the temples and led rituals and festivals, enjoyed a great degree of prestige; they received tributes and shares of military booties by the kins' chiefs.\n\nIn 980 CE, in Kievan Rus', led by the Great Prince Vladimir, there was an attempt to unify the various beliefs and priestly practices of Slavic religion in order to bind together the Slavic peoples in the growing centralised state. Vladimir canonised a number of deities, to whom he erected a temple on the hills of the capital Kiev. These deities, recorded in the \"Primary Chronicle\", were five: \"Perun\", \"Xors Dazhbog\", \"Stribog\", \"Simargl\" and \"Mokosh\". Various other deities were worshipped by the common people, notably Veles who had a temple in the merchant's district of Podil of the capital itself. According to scholars, Vladimir's project consisted in a number of reforms that he had already started by the 970s, and which were aimed at preserving the traditions of the kins and making Kiev the spiritual centre of East Slavdom.\n\nPerun was the god of thunder, law and war, symbolised by the oak and the axe, and identified with the Baltic \"Perkunas\", the Germanic \"Thor\" and the Vedic \"Indra\" among others; his cult was practised not so much by commoners but mainly by the aristocracy. Veles was the god of horned livestock (\"Skotibog\"), of wealth and of the underworld. Perun and Veles symbolised an oppositional and yet complementary duality similar to that of the Vedic \"Mitra\" and \"Varuna\", an eternal struggle between heavenly and chthonic forces. Roman Jakobson himself identified Veles as the Vedic Varuna, god of oaths and of the world order. This belief in a cosmic duality was likely the reason that led to the exclusion of Veles from Vladimir's official temple in Kiev. Xors Dazhbog (\"Radiant Giving-God\") was the god of the life-bringing power of the sun. Stribog was identified by E. G. Kagarov as the god of wind, storm and dissension. Mokosh, the only female deity in Vladimir's pantheon, is interpreted as meaning the \"Wet\" or \"Moist\" by Jakobson, identifying her with the Mat Syra Zemlya (\"Damp Mother Earth\") of later folk religion. According to scholars, Xors Dazhbog, Simargl and Stribog represent the unmistakable Indo-Iranian (Scythian and Sarmatian) component of Slavic religion.\n\nAccording to Ivanits, written sources from the Middle Ages \"leave no doubt whatsoever\" that the common Slavic peoples continued to worship their indigenous deities and hold their rituals for centuries after Kievan Rus' official baptism into Christianity, and the lower clergy of the newly formed Orthodox Christian church often joined the celebrations. The high clergy repeatedly condemned, through official admonitions, the worship of \"Rod\" and the \"Rozhanitsy\" (\"God and the Goddesses\", or \"Generation and the generatrixes\") with offerings of bread, porrdige, cheese and mead. Scholars of Russian religion define \"Rod\" as the \"general power of birth and reproduction\" and the \"Rozhanitsy\" as the \"mistresses of individual destiny\". Kagarov identified the later \"Domovoi\", the god of the household and kinship ancestry, as a specific manifestation of Rod. Other gods attested in medieval documents remain largely mysterious, for instance \"Lada\" and her sons \"Lel\" and \"Polel\", who are often identified by scholars with the Greek gods \"Leda\" or \"Leto\" and her twin sons \"Castor\" and \"Pollux\". Other figures who in medieval documents are often presented as deities, such as \"Kupala\" and \"Koliada\", were rather the personifications of the spirits of agrarian holidays.\n\nIn 988, Vladimir of Kievan Rus' rejected Slavic religion and he and his subjects were officially baptised into the Eastern Orthodox Church, then the state religion of the Byzantine Empire. According to legend, Vladimir sent delegates to foreign states to determine what was the most convincing religion to be adopted by Kiev. Joyfulness and beauty were the primary characteristics of pre-Christian Slavic ceremonies, and the delegates sought for something capable of matching these qualities. They were crestfallen by the Islamic religion of Volga Bulgaria, where they found \"no joy ... but sorrow and great stench\", and by Western Christianity (then the Catholic Church) where they found \"many worship services, but nowhere ... beauty\". Those who visited Constantinople were instead impressed by the arts and rituals of Byzantine Christianity. According to the \"Primary Chronicle\", after the choice was made Vladimir commanded that the Slavic temple on the Kievan hills be destroyed and the effigies of the gods be burned or thrown into the Dnieper. Slavic temples were destroyed throughout the lands of Kievan Rus' and Christian churches were built in their places.\n\nAccording to Ivakhiv, Christianisation was stronger in what is today western and central Ukraine, lands close to the capital Kiev. Slavic religion persisted, however, especially in northernmost regions of Slavic settlement, in what is today the central part of European Russia, such as the areas of Novgorod, Suzdal and Belozersk. In the core regions of Christianisation themselves the common population remained attached to the \"volkhv\"s, the priests, who periodically, over centuries, led popular rebellions against the central power and the Christian church. Christianisation was a very slow process among the Slavs, and the official Christian church adopted a policy of co-optation of pre-Christian elements into Slavic Christianity. Christian saints were identified with Slavic gods—for instance, the figure of Perun was overlapped with that of Saint Elias, Veles was identified with Saint Blasius, and Yarilo became Saint George—and Christian festivals were set at the same dates as pagan ones.\n\nAnother feature of early Slavic Christianity was the strong influence of apocryphal literature, which became evident by the thirteenth century with the rise of Bogomilism among the South Slavs. South Slavic Bogomilism produced a large amount of apocryphal texts and their teachings later penetrated into Russia, and would have influenced later Slavic folk religion. Bernshtam tells of a \"flood\" of apocryphal literature in eleventh- to fifteenth-century Russia, which might not be controlled by the still-weak Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nScholars have highlighted how the \"conversion of Rus\" took place no more than eight years after Vlardimir's reform of Slavic religion in 980; according to them Christianity in general did not have \"any deep influence ... in the formation of the ideology, culture and social psychology of archaic societies\" and the introduction of Christianity in Kiev \"did not bring about a radical change in the consciousness of the society during the entire course of early Russian history\". It was portrayed as a mass and conscious conversion only by half a century later, by the scribes of the Christian establishment. According to scholars, the replacement of Slavic temples with Christian churches and the \"baptism of Rus\" has to be understood in continuity with the foregoing chain of reforms of Slavic religion launched by Vladimir, rather than as a breaking point.\n\nV. G. Vlasov quotes the respected scholar of Slavic religion E. V. Anichkov, who, regarding Russia's Christianisation, said:\nAccording to Vlasov the ritual of baptism and mass conversion undergone by Vladimir in 988 was never repeated in the centuries to follow, and mastery of Christian teachings was never accomplished on the popular level even by the start of the twentieth century. According to him, a nominal, superficial identification with Christianity was possible with the superimposition of a Christianised agrarian calendar (\"Christian–Easter–Whitsunday\") over the indigenous complex of festivals, \"Koliada–Yarilo–Kupala\". The analysis of the Christianised agrarian and ritual calendar, combined with data from popular astronomy, leads to determine that the Julian calendar associated with the Orthodox Church was adopted by Russian peasants between the sixteenth and seventeenth century. It was by this period that much of the Russian population became officially part of the Orthodox Church and therefore nominally Christians. This occurred as an effect of a broader complex of phenomena which Russia underwent by the fifteenth century, that is to say radical changes towards a centralisation of state power, which involved urbanisation, bureaucratisation and the consolidation of serfdom of the peasantry.\n\nThat the vast majority of the Russian population was not Christian back in the fifteenth century would be proven by archaeology: according to Vlasov, mound (\"kurgan\") burials, which do not reflect Christian norms, were \"a universal phenomenon in Russia up to the fifteenth century\", and persisted into the 1530s. Moreover, chronicles from that period, such as the \"Pskov Chronicle\", and archaeological data collected by N. M. Nikolsky, testify that back in the fifteenth century there were still \"no rural churches for the general use of the populace; churches existed only at the courts of boyars and princes\". It was only by the sixteenth century that the Russian Orthodox Church grew as a powerful, centralising institution taking the Catholic Church of Rome as a model, and the distinctiveness of a Slavic folk religion became evident. The church condemned \"heresies\" and tried to eradicate the \"false half-pagan\" folk religion of the common people, but these measures coming from the centres of church power were largely ineffective, and on the local level creative syntheses of folk religious rituals and holidays continued to thrive.\n\nWhen the incorporation of the Russian population into Christianity became substantial in the middle of the sixteenth century, the Russian Orthodox Church absorbed further elements of pre-Christian and popular tradition and underwent a transformation of its architecture, with the adoption of the hipped roof which was traditionally associated to pre-Christian Slavic temples. The most significant change was however the adoption of the sunwise direction in Christian ritual procession.\n\nChristianity is characterised by withershins ritual movement, that is to say movement against the course of the sun. This was also the case in Slavic Christianity before the sixteenth century. Sunwise movements are instead characteristic of Slavic religion, evident in the \"khorovod\", ritual circle-dance, which magically favours the development of things. Withershins movement was employed in popular rituals, too, though only in those occasions when it was considered worthwhile to act against the course of nature, in order to alter the state of affairs.\n\nWhen Patriarch Nikon of Moscow launched his reform of the Orthodox Church in 1656, he restored the withershins ritual movement. This was among the changes that led to a schism (\"raskol\") within Russian Orthodoxy, between those who accepted the reforms and the Old Believers, who preserved instead the \"ancient piety\" derived from indigenous Slavic religion. A large number of Russians and ethnic minorities converted to the movement of the Old Believers, in the broadest meaning of the term—including a variety of folk religions—pointed out by Bernshtam, and these Old Believers were a significant part of the settlers of broader European Russia and Siberia throughout the second half of the seventeenth century, which saw the expansion of the Russian state in these regions. Old Believers were distinguished by their cohesion, literacy and initiative, and constantly-emerging new religious sects tended to identify themselves with the movement. This posed a great hitch to the Russian Orthodox Church's project of thorough Christianisation of the masses. Veletskaya highlighted how the Old Believers have preserved Indo-European and early Slavic ideas and practices such as the veneration of fire as a channel to the divine world, the symbolism of the colour red, the search for a \"glorious death\", and more in general the holistic vision of a divine cosmos.\n\nIn the eleventh century, Slavic pagan culture was \"still in full working order\" among the West Slavs. By the twelfth century, however, under the pressure of Germanisation, Catholicism was forcefully imposed through the Northern Crusades and temples and images of Slavic religion were violently destroyed. West Slavic populations stood out vigorously against Christianisation. One of the most famous instances of popular resistance occurred at the temple-stronghold of Svetovid at Cape Arkona, in Rugia. The temple at Arkona had a squared groundplan, with an inner hall sustained by four pillars which contained Svetovid's statue. The latter had four heads, represented beardless and cleanshaven after the Rugian fashion. In the right hand, the statue held a horn of precious metal, which was used for divination during the yearly great festival of the god. In 1168, Arkona surrendered to the Danish troops of King Valdemar I, and the bishop Absalon led the destruction of the temple of Svetovid.\n\nEthnography in late-nineteenth-century Ukraine documented a \"thorough synthesis of pagan and Christian elements\" in Slavic folk religion, a system often called \"double belief\" (Russian: \"dvoeverie\", Ukrainian: \"dvovirya\"). According to Bernshtam, \"dvoeverie\" is still used to this day in scholarly works to define Slavic folk religion, which is seen by certain scholars as having preserved much of pre-Christian Slavic religion, \"poorly and transparently\" covered by a Christianity that may be easily \"stripped away\" to reveal more or less \"pure\" patterns of the original faith. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union there has been a new wave of scholarly debate umbe the subjects of Slavic folk religion and \"dvoeverie\". A. E. Musin, an academic and deacon of the Russian Orthodox Church published an article about the \"problem of double belief\" as recently as 1991. In this article he divides scholars between those who say that Russian Orthodoxy adapted to entrenched indigenous faith, continuing the Soviet idea of an \"undefeated paganism\", and those who say that Russian Orthodoxy is an out-and-out syncretic religion. Bernshtam challenges dualistic notions of \"dvoeverie\" and proposes to interpret broader Slavic religiosity as a \"mnogoverie\" (\"multifaith\") continuum, in which a higher layer of Orthodox Christian officialdom is alternated with a variety of \"Old Beliefs\" among the various strata of the population.\n\nAccording to Ivanits, nineteenth- and twentieth-century Slavic folk religion's central concern was fertility, propitiated with rites celebrating death and resurrection. Scholars of Slavic religion who focused on nineteenth-century folk religion were often led to mistakes such as the interpretation of \"Rod\" and \"Rozhanitsy\" as figures of a merely ancestral cult; however in medieval documents Rod is equated with the ancient Egyptian god Osiris, representing a broader concept of natural generativity. Belief in the holiness of \"Mat Syra Zemlya\" (\"Damp Mother Earth\") is another feature that has persisted into modern Slavic folk religion; up to the twentieth century, Russian peasants practised a variety of rituals devoted to her and confessed their sins to her in the absence of a priest. Ivanits also reports that in the region of Vladimir old people practised a ritual asking Earth's forgiveness prior to their death. A number of scholars attributed the Russians' particular devotion to the \"Theotokos\", the \"Mother of God\", to this still powerful pre-Christian substratum of devotion to a great mother goddess.\n\nIvanits attributes the tenacity of synthetic Slavic folk religion to an exceptionality of Slavs and of Russia in particular, compared to other European countries; \"the Russian case is extreme\", she says, because Russia—especially the vastity of rural Russia—neither lived the intellectual upheavals of the Renaissance, nor the Reformation, nor the Age of Enlightenment, which severely weakened folk spirituality in the rest of Europe.\n\nSlavic folk religious festivals and rites reflect the times of the ancient pagan calendar. For instance, the Christmas period is marked by the rites of \"Koliada\", characterised by the element of fire, processions and ritual drama, offerings of food and drink to the ancestors. Spring and summer rites are characterised by fire- and water-related imagery spinning umbe the figures of the gods \"Yarilo\", \"Kupala\" and \"Marzanna\". The switching of seasonal spirits is celebrated through the interaction of effigies of these spirits and the elements which symbolise the coming season; for instance by burning, drowning or setting the effigies onto water, and the \"rolling of burning wheels of straw down into rivers\".\n\nSince the early twentieth century there has been a reinvention and reinstitutionalisation of \"Slavic religion\" in the so-called movement of \"Rodnovery\", literally \"Slavic Native Faith\". The movement draws from ancient Slavic folk religion, often combining it with philosophical underpinnings taken from other religions, chiefly Hinduism. Some Rodnover groups focus almost exclusively on folk religions and the worship of gods at the right times of the year, while others have developed a scriptural core, represented by writings purported to be centuries-old documents such as the \"Book of Veles\"; writings which elaborate powerful national mythologemes such as the \"Maha Vira\" of Sylenkoism; and esoteric writings such as the \"Slavo-Aryan Vedas\" of Ynglism.\n\nLinda J. Ivanits reconstructed a basic calendar of the celebrations of the most important Slavic gods among East Slavs, based on Boris Rybakov's studies on ancient agricultural calendars, especially a fourth-century one from an area around Kiev.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42640459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42640459", "title": "The Book of the Sage and Disciple", "text": "The Book of the Sage and Disciple\n\nThe Book of the Sage and Disciple (Arabic: كتاب العالم والغلام ; \"Kitāb al-‘ālim wa-l-ghulām\") is a religious narrative of spiritual initiation written in the form of a dramatic dialogue by Ja‘far bin Manṣūr al-Yaman (270 AH/883 CE – c. 347 AH/958 CE). The work describes the encounter of a disillusioned young man with a \"dā‘ī\", or Ismāʿīlī Muslim missionary, who gradually introduces his new disciple to the inner dimensions of Islam as elaborated by the Shī‘ī imāms.\n\nIsmāʿīlī Muslims, known less commonly as \"Seveners\", are Shī‘ī Muslims who believe that Ismāʿīl ibn Ja‘far (b. 100/719) was the true prophetic successor or imām of Ja‘far al-Sādiq (d. 148/765), as opposed to Ithnā‘asharī or \"Twelvers\" who believe that Mūsā al-Kāẓim (d. 183/799) was designated imām over his younger brother Ismāʿīl. After the ‘Abbāsid Revolution of 750 CE Ismāʿīlīs came to believe that Muḥammad ibn Ismāʿīl, son of the seventh imām and their awaited madhi, had entered a state of occultation. In his absence Ismāʿīlīs began widely propagating their faith beyond their base of power in the Levant through the institution of the \"da‘wa\", or mission led by a dā‘ī. In addition to presiding over the primary missionary activities of the da‘wa, the dā‘ī was responsible for the education, safety and spiritual health of his community. The personal relationship of the dā‘ī and his students, portrayed so vividly by Ja‘far bin Manṣūr al-Yaman in his \"Kitāb\", would decisively influence the sheikh-murīd bond of later Sufi orders. With the rise of the Fāṭimid dynasty in the first quarter of the tenth century CE, Ismāʿīlīs identified these caliphs with their imāms.\n\nIn this manner the \"Kitāb\" is to be viewed as a classic of early Fāṭimid literature, documenting important aspects of the development of the Ismāʿīlī da‘wa in tenth-century Yemen. The \"Kitāb\" is also of considerable historical value for modern scholars of Arabic prose literature as well as those interested in the relationship of esoteric Shī‘ism with early Islamic mysticism. Likewise is the \"Kitāb\" an important source of information regarding the various movements within tenth-century Shī‘ism leading to the spread of the Fāṭimid-Isma‘īlī da‘wa throughout the medieval Islamicate world, and the religious and philosophical history of post-Fāṭimid Musta‘lī branch of Ismāʿīlism in Yemen and India.\n\nJa‘far bin Manṣūr al-Yaman was a high-ranking Ismāʿīlī poet, theologian and court companion active during the reign of the first four Fāṭimid caliphs. Born to an accomplished Shī‘ī family of Kufan origins in Yemen, Ja‘far was a son of the famous Ismāʿīlī proselytizer ibn Hawshāb (d. 302AH/914CE). As a result of his pioneering work establishing the Isma‘lī da‘wa of Yemen, ibn Hawshāb was commonly known by the laqab Manṣūr al-Yaman (“the Conqueror of Yemen”), whence derives Ja‘far's patronymic. As the only son of ibn Hawshāb to follow in his footsteps after his death, Ja‘far was often at odds with his brother Abū al-Ḥasan. Their mutual estrangement eventually forced Ja‘far to emigrate to North Africa, where he arrived during the reign of the second Faṭimid caliph al-Qā'im (r. 322-34AH/933-46CE). There he witnessed the anti-Fāṭimid revolt led by Khārajī Berber Abū Yazīd, which began in the last two years of al-Qā'im's reign and ended in the first regnal year of his successor, al-Manṣūr (r. 334-41AH/946-53CE).\n\nComposed largely during the years 333-36AH/945-48CE, Ja‘far's poetry expressed intense loyalty toward Fāṭimid rule. Many of his compositions also contained allegorical interpretations or ta'wīl for Qurʾānic words and expressions (\"Sarā'ir al-nuṭaqā\" and \"Asrār al-nuṭaqā\") as well as Islamic ritual worship, letters of the Arabic alphabet (\"Risālat ta'wīl ḥurūf al-muʿjam\") and the hierarchy of the Fāṭimid daʿwa (\"Kitāb al-kashf,\" \"al-Shawāhid wa-l-bayān\" and \"Kitāb al-farā'iḍ wa ḥudūd al-dīn\").\n\nHis early work also celebrated al-Manṣūr's triumph over Abū Yazīd, currying him favor with the caliph. Indeed, Ja‘far maintained a grand residence in Manṣūriyya, a town founded by the eponymous ruler near al-Qayrawān in honor of this victory. However, later in life Ja‘far found himself in such dire financial straits that he was obliged to mortgage his household at great risk. He was in danger of total forfeiture until the fourth Fāṭimid caliph al-Mu‘izz (r. 341-65/953-75) forgave his debt in recognition of services rendered by Ja‘far and his father ibn Hawshāb. Ja‘far died five years into al-Mu‘izz's reign.\n\n\"The Book of the Sage and the Disciple\" is one of several pieces of writing attributed to Ja'far that have survived for centuries in Yemen and Gujarat, serving as an important touchestones for spiritual teaching in these communities. Written as a dramatic dialogue, the \"Kitāb\" is noteworthy evidence for the development of this literary form in the Islamicate world in a manner independent from its Greek iterations. The work also describes the development of Shī'ī religious life in the early medieval period through the proliferation of tariqa Shi'ism and the ethical and spiritual pedagogy of its hierarchical, genealogical structure of filiation and pedigree. These themes are each powerfully in evidence in Ja‘far's \"Kitāb\", and demonstrate the manner in which distinctly Shī'ī religious life was later translated into a more widespread mystical sensibility.\n\nThe dialogue itself opens with words of gratitude toward the Sage (\"'ālim\"), who has called the community of the speaker to the true faith, has directed this community toward knowledge and instructed them in correct religious practice. The speaker asks for further clarification on these matters, and the Sage responds by enjoining obedience to his teachings as a means of thanking him, citing correct practice and leading to the path as the best forms of gratitude.\n\nHe then offers a parable for his audience about a young man whose journey toward truth takes him from material comfort to spiritual angst, finally culminating in God's illuminating for him the true path—a path which obliges the man to call others to follow him on it. This obligation has been codified in a spiritual hierarchy in which each successive link in the chain of precedence is duty-bound to bring others into the fold. Thus is the man in the parable obliged to wander through many countries as a teacher, until he comes upon a foreign community which is divided on questions of spirituality, and whose interest in religion, proximity to the true path and shared religious affiliation with Islam necessitate the man's intervention. Here he takes on a didactic role, answering questions that the individuals of this community pose to him in order to further pique their interest. The most receptive of these becomes his pupil, and he trains this acolyte in the divine argument (\"ḥujja\") concerning the Shī'ī imams and saints (\"awliyā\"').\n\nThe Sage then commands his disciple to adhere to the outer meaning of the Qur'an (\"ẓāhir\"). Indeed, all revealed books are complementary in their divine origin, acting in a successive chain of authority mirroring the spiritual hierarchy of the sheikh-murid relationship. The Sage asks five things of his pupil: to adhere to his commands; to conceal nothing from him; to expect selectivity from the Sage in answering his questions; to wait for the Sage to broach new topics; and to hide any concerns he might have from his father. Indeed, the character of the disciple's father seems to stand in for a potentially hostile community from which Shī'ī Muslims are obligated to conceal their true beliefs for fear of violent reprisal (\"taqiyya\").\n\nAfter a period of study spent under these strictures, the disciple earns regular contact with the sheikh and delivers his oath (\"bay'a\") to him. After this point the Sage reveals to him the inner beliefs of the Ismāʿīlī Shī'īs (\"bāṭin\"), including the esoteric interpretation of Qur'anic cosmology, which is structured along the intermediaries of prophets, imāms and saints linking human and divine.\n\n"}
{"id": "12192482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12192482", "title": "The Left Hand of God (book)", "text": "The Left Hand of God (book)\n\nThe Left Hand of God: Taking Back Our Country from the Religious Right is a 2006 book by Rabbi Michael Lerner. In it, Lerner argues that in order for progressive politics to survive in America, liberals must develop a respect for progressive forms of religion that can provide inspiration and a sense of \"meaning\" in people's lives. Lerner argues that the Religious right seduces many well-intentioned Americans who hunger for higher purpose into supporting political candidates whose policies ultimately exacerbate the spiritual and moral vacuum that creates the desperation that makes the Religious Right appealing in the first place.\n\nThe author summarizes:\nThe pivotal thesis of Part I is that American culture is dominated by a technocratic rationality and a bottom line of money and power that causes deep levels of depression in a large part of the population. This in turn makes much of the population vulnerable to being easily seduced by authoritarian forms of religion and tempts them to reject liberalism altogether, its strengths as well as its weaknesses. Lerner further argues that the cultural excesses of the Left in the 60s and 70s led to backlash in the 1980s. Rabbi Lerner believes that a solution is to develop a progressive form of religion which can speak to people's real spiritual and emotional needs without pulling its followers into the dark side of religion.\n\nLerner proposes a Spiritual Covenant with America that emphasizes a caring and nurturing society focused not merely on social responsibility but on human connectedness.\n\nNetwork of Spiritual Progressives\n\nSpiritual Covenant With America\n"}
{"id": "3579882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3579882", "title": "The Remnant (newspaper)", "text": "The Remnant (newspaper)\n\nThe Remnant is a Traditionalist Catholic newspaper published twice a month in the United States. Although its editors are not affiliated with any particular institute or traditionalist group, the paper is sympathetic to Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre and the Society of St. Pius X. Founded in 1968, it is the oldest Traditionalist Catholic newspaper in the United States. \"The Remnant\" strives to adhere to Catholic teaching in every aspect of its journalism. The name \"The Remnant\" is a reference to the remnant of Isaiah and the belief that only a remnant of Catholics holding to the traditional teachings and practice of the Church remain after the sweeping changes brought by the Second Vatican Council.\n\n\"The Remnant\" traces its roots back to \"The Wanderer\", the \"parent paper\" of \"The Remnant\" and the oldest Catholic weekly newspaper in the United States. \"The Remnant\" was a result of a dispute between Walter Matt, the editor of \"The Wanderer\" who served the paper for over thirty years\",\" and his brother Alphonse Matt. Walter Matt opposed the changes within the Catholic Church after the Second Vatican Council; Alphonse Matt supported them.\n\nWalter Matt left \"The Wanderer\", which was left under the guidance of Alphonse, to start \"The Remnant\" in 1967, two years before the most dramatic changes, those affecting the Mass and celebration of the Sacraments, were instituted. In Walter Matt's words, his \"reaction to what he saw took the form of a Catholic newspaper called \"The Remnant\".\" Thus was founded what was to become the flagship of the traditional Catholic movement in the United States. \"The Remnant\" considers itself as the \"leading journal of the counterrevolution, which seeks to restore the traditions of the Church to their rightful place and honor in the Church—especially the Tridentine Mass.\" It serves as a forum for Catholics who, in their words, oppose \"that which in any way contradicts the infallible teachings and immutable traditions of the Catholic Church.\"\n\n\"The Remnant\" is now edited by Walter Matt's youngest son, Michael J. Matt. Many leading traditionalists, including Thomas Woods, Brian Mershon, Christopher Ferrara, Brian McCall, Mark Alessio, Robert Dahl, Kenneth Wolfe, Sherry Foster and Martin Blackshaw write for the paper on a regular basis. Columns by Dr. John C. Rao, a professor at St. John's University, are another regular feature. So were columns by Michael Davies for many years before his death in 2004 and by Thomas Droleskey prior to adopting the sedevacantist position and taking a job with The Four Marks monthly located in Ballantine, MT. From 2005 to 2013, \"The Remnant\" was a very vigorous defender of the pontificate of Benedict XVI as its writers believe he has vindicated them on issues that have divided them from other Traditionalists and from conservative Catholics associated with The Wanderer, EWTN, and Catholic Answers. Under the current pontificate of Pope Francis, the newspaper has heavily criticized his policies.\n\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center includes \"The Remnant\" and the Remnant Press in its list of \"active U.S. hate groups\" under the \"Radical Traditionalist Catholic\" category, which the SPLC defines as \"organizations that embrace anti-Semitism and whose theology is typically rejected by the Vatican and mainstream Catholics in general.\" \"The Remnant\" editors reject this label, noting their belief that anti-Semitism is a mortal sin, and that the organization is peaceful. Others have also defended \"The Remnant\" from this charge, including the Catholic Family News and Renew America.\n\n"}
{"id": "14218460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218460", "title": "The Talmud Unmasked", "text": "The Talmud Unmasked\n\nThe Talmud Unmasked (Latin: \"Christianus in Talmud Iudaeorum: sive, Rabbinicae doctrinae Christiani secreta\") is a book published in 1892 by Justinas Bonaventure Pranaitis (1861–1917). The book, generally regarded as antisemitic, is a collection of purported quotes from the Talmud and Zohar that purports to demonstrate that Judaism despises non-Jews and promotes the murder of non-Jews. Pranaitis drew on the earlier works of Jakob Ecker and August Rohling.\n\n\"The Talmud Unmasked\" is a collection of alleged quotes from the Talmud, the Zohar and other Talmudic works purporting to demonstrate that:\n\nA portion of the book's outline is as follows:\n\nPranaitis could not read Aramaic (the primary language of the Talmud), and probably used works by August Rohling and others as his sources.\n\nThe book includes numerous quotes from the Talmud and the Zohar. His ignorance of some simple Talmudic Aramaic concepts and definitions, such as \"hullin\", was demonstrated during the Menahem Mendel Beilis blood libel case in which he testified as a \"Talmud expert\".\n\nScholars classify \"The Talmud Unmasked\" as an antisemitic and anti-Talmudic work, comparable to \"Der Talmud Jude\" by August Rohling (1871) and \"The Traditions Of The Jews\" by Johann Eisenmenger (1700).\n\nJeffrey Kaplan describes how the book was used by cults to support apocalyptic theories, particular relating to the end-of-times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16734354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16734354", "title": "Tiandi teachings", "text": "Tiandi teachings\n\nTiandiism is a group of Chinese folk religious sects, namely the Holy Church of the Heavenly Virtue and the Lord of Universe Church, which emerged respectively from the teachings of Xiao Changming and Li Yujie, disseminated in the early 20th century. The Lord of Universe Church is actually a later development of the former, established in the 1980s.\n\nThese religions focus on the worship of the \"Heavely Deity\" or \"Heavenly Emperor\" (\"Tiāndì\" 天帝), on health through the proper cultivation of qi, and teach a style of qigong named \"Tianren qigong\". According to scholars, the doctrines of Li Yujie are traceable to the Taoist tradition of Huashan, where he studied for eight years. The Lord of Universe Church is active both in Taiwan and mainland China, where it has high-level links.\n\nThe origins of the Holy Church of the Heavenly Virtue (天德圣教 \"Tiāndé shèngjiào\") go back to Sichuan in 1899, with the alleged resurrection of a young boy named Xiao Changming (蕭昌明, 1896-1943) who had apparently died three days earlier. After his revival, he declared that he had received Heaven's mandate (\"tianming\") to save humanity from suffering. He embarked on a successful religious career and attracted a large following.\n\nIn 1937 he established his headquarters on Mount Huang in southern Anhui province where he died in 1943. Like other sects, Xiao Changming's movement was suppressed in China after 1949, but survives in Taiwan and Hong Kong. In Taiwan, one of Xiao's disciples, Li Yujie, eventually decided to walk his own path and founded a new group called the Lord of Universe Church in 1978, which diverges doctrinally in several aspects from the mother group, yet also sees itself in the tradition of Xiao Changming's teachings. \n\nCurrently, there exist two regional organizations for this religion. Its Hong Kong headquarters is located at Castle Peak in the New Territories. In Taiwan the religion's situation is characterized by disunity, with several separate organizations claiming to continue original Xiao's teachings.\n\nThe Lord of Universe Church (天帝教 \"Tiāndì jiāo\") is based in Taiwan and is devoted to the Tiandist beliefs as proclaimed by Li Yujie. It is an offshoot of the Holy Church of the Heavenly Virtue and it emphasizes chanting, traditional medicine, and a form of meditation which it calls \"quiet sitting\" in English.\n\nLi Yujie was born in China. He worked in the Guomindang but left in 1958 to ensure political independence for his fledgling newspaper. In 1980 he claimed he was given permission by God to retransmit the message of the Heavenly Deity, which emphasize nuclear disarmament and Chinese unification. His book, \"The Ultimate Realm\", was translated into Japanese and English under his guidance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "698076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698076", "title": "Universal call to holiness", "text": "Universal call to holiness\n\nThe Universal Call to Holiness is a teaching of the Roman Catholic Church that all people are called to be holy, and is based on Matthew 5:48 – \"Be you therefore perfect, as also your heavenly Father is perfect.\". In the opening pages of the Bible, the call to holiness is expressed in the Lord's words to Abraham: “Walk before me, and be blameless” (Gen 17:1).\n\nThe universal call to holiness has always been a teaching of the Church and is rooted in its mission to take sinners and raise them from their sinful nature into saints by the glory and perfection of Jesus Christ. For God does not choose us by our virtue or goodness, but by His infinite mercy and desire for all men's salvation. An example of this teaching can be found in the \"Introduction to the Devout Life\" of Francis de Sales. Written in the 17th century, it describes a method to approach holiness in everyday life.\n\nChapter V of the Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, \"Lumen gentium\" discusses the Universal Call to Holiness: ...all the faithful of Christ of whatever rank or status, are called to the fullness of the Christian life and to the perfection of charity; ...They must follow in His footsteps and conform themselves to His image seeking the will of the Father in all things. They must devote themselves with all their being to the glory of God and the service of their neighbor.\n\nPope Emeritus Benedict XVI spoke on the Universal Call to Holiness during his General Audience of Wednesday, 13 April 2011, saying: \n\"...The saints expressed in various ways the powerful and transforming presence of the Risen One. They let Jesus so totally overwhelm their life that they could say with St Paul “it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me” (Gal 2:20). Following their example, seeking their intercession, entering into communion with them, “brings us closer to Christ, so our companionship with the saints joins us to Christ, from whom as from their fountain and head issue every grace and the life of the People of God itself” (cf. Second Vatican Council, Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, Lumen Gentium, n. 50).\n\nAt the end of this series of Catecheses, therefore, I would like to offer some thoughts on what holiness is. What does it mean to be holy? Who is called to be holy? We are often led to think that holiness is a goal reserved for a few elect. St Paul, instead, speaks of God’s great plan and says: “even as he (God) chose us in him [Christ] before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him” (Eph 1:4). And he was speaking about all of us. At the centre of the divine plan is Christ in whom. God shows his Face, in accord with the favour of his will. The Mystery hidden in the centuries is revealed in its fullness in the Word made flesh. And Paul then says: “in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell” (Col 1:19)...\n\nThe Second Vatican Council, in the Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, speaks with clarity of the universal call to holiness, saying that no one is excluded: “The forms and tasks of life are many but holiness is one — that sanctity which is cultivated by all who act under God’s Spirit and… follow Christ, poor, humble and cross-bearing, that they may deserve to be partakers of his glory” (Lumen Gentium, n. 41)\"\n\nThe universal call to holiness is rooted in baptism, and the Paschal Mystery, which configures a person to Jesus Christ who is truly God and truly man, thus uniting a person with the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity, bringing him in communion with intra-trinitarian life.<br>\n\nSince 1928, St. Josemaría Escrivá, the founder of Opus Dei, also preached the universal call to holiness especially for lay people living an everyday life and doing ordinary work: \"There is something holy, something divine, hidden in the most ordinary situations, and it is up to each of you to discover it.\"\n\nJohn Paul II states in his apostolic Letter \"Novo Millennio Ineunte\", his apostolic letter for the new millennium, a \"program for all times\", that holiness is not only a state but a task, whereby Christians should strive for a full Christian life, imitating Christ, God the Son, who gave his life for God the Father and for his neighbor. This entails a \"training in the art of prayer\". According to the Pope, all pastoral initiatives have to be set in relation to holiness, as this has to be the topmost priority of the Church. The universal call to holiness is explained as more fundamental than the vocational discernment to particular ways of life such as priesthood, marriage, or virginity.\n\nAt the very core of the spirituality of a Catholic is this call to perfection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2172743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172743", "title": "Visvanatha Chakravarti", "text": "Visvanatha Chakravarti\n\nVisvanatha Chakravarti Thakura (c. 1626 – c. 1708) was a Gaudiya Vaishnava acharya born in the village of Devagram within Nadia district, West Bengal, India. His parents were Radhi Sreni brahmanas. He also had two brothers named Rambhadra and Raghunatha.\n\nHis initiating guru was Sriyuta Krsnacarana Cakravarti of Saiyadabad, Murshidabad, who was fourth in the line from Narottama Dasa. Visvanatha Chakravarti resided with his guru for many years and composed many books during that time.\n\nHis studies of grammar, poetry and rhetoric were completed while he still lived at Nadia. There is a story that he defeated one conquering pandit while he himself was still only a student. From his childhood he was completely indifferent to household life. In order to keep him at home, his father had him married at a very young age. However, he finally renounced family life and came to live at Vrindavana. His family members tried to bring him back but were unsuccessful.\n\nSri Chakravarti Thakura took up residence with Mukunda Dasa, who lived in Krishnadasa Kaviraja Gosvami's bhajana kutir at Radha-kunda. There he very intently studied the books and letters of the Gosvamis and composed many commentaries on their writings.\n\nHe used to worship a Deity named Golokananda. His another name was Harivallabha Dasa.\n\nHe composed the following books on Gaudiya Vaishnava Theology:\n\n\nHe died on the Vasanta-pancami in the month of Magha.\n"}
