{"id": "852762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=852762", "title": "Ananda Marga", "text": "Ananda Marga\n\nÁnanda Márga (, ' \"The Path of Bliss\", also spelled \"Anand Marg\" and \"Ananda Marg\") or officially Ánanda Márga Pracáraka Saḿgha\"' (\"organisation for the propagation of the path of bliss\") is a socio-spiritual organisation and movement founded in Jamalpur, Bihar, India in 1955 by Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar. It is also the name of the philosophy and life-style propounded by Sarkar, described as a practical philosophy for personal development, social service and the all-around transformation of the society.\n\nPrabhat Ranjan Sarkar founded the Ánanda Márga Pracáraka Saḿgha (more commonly known as \"Ananda Marga\" or, less frequently, \"Ananda Marg\" or \"Anand Marg\") on 5 January 1955. The literal translation into English is \"the Organization to Propagate the Path of Bliss.\" The stated aims of the organization are \"liberation of self and service to humanity\". In March of the same year, the first group of \"acharyas\" was created in Jamalpur.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the organisation expanded rapidly in India, sending Acharyas as missionaries to other continents. Ananda Marga's popularity in India put it in direct confrontation with the Communist Party in West Bengal. In 1967, Ananda Marga headquarters came under attack by locals who were allegedly incited by Communist leaders. Criticism of corruption in the Indian government by acharyas of Ananda Marga also put it in confrontation with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.\n\nP.R. Sarkar died on 21 October 1990. Acarya Shraddhananda Avadhuta was elected from the body of \"purodhas\" as President of \"Ananda Marga Pracharaka Samgha\" global organization and \"Purodha Pramukha\".\n\nTantra yoga, as interpreted by Shrii Shrii Anandamurti, is the practical philosophy which serves as foundation of \"Ananda Marga\". According to P.R. Sarkar's teachings \"Tantra\" means liberation from darkness, the root \"tan\" meaning darkness, and \"tra\" liberation.\nMeditation is the main spiritual practice of this \"tantric\" tradition, and through it the practitioner struggles to overcome weaknesses and imperfections. The basis of \"Ananda Marga\" practice is covered by a set of rules called the 'Sixteen Points' that guide the practitioner on both spiritual and social aspects.\n\nAnandamurti expounded these principles in a text composed in Sanskrit in 1961.\n\nIn the \"tantric\" tradition of \"Ananda Marga\" the spiritual aspirant (sadhaka) practices sadhana. \"Sadhana\" (a Sanskrit word) signifies the effort through which a person becomes completely realized. In \"Tantra\" the spiritual master, the guru, plays a special role. The \"guru\" guides and leads students on the spiritual path. The aspirant learns meditation by a qualified \"acarya\". An \"acarya\" is most commonly a monk or nun, but in the \"Ananda Marga\" tradition there are also \"family \"acaryas\"\". In the initiation the aspirant makes a commitment to practice meditation and to live in harmony with the universal balance, and is then taught the technique itself. The aspirant is then required to keep the individual lessons personal. In addition, he also taught \"Kapalika\" meditation to many \"sanyásins\". His system of \"yoga\" can be termed as \"Rájadhirája Yoga\", \"Tantra Yoga\", or simply \"Ánanda Márga Yoga\". The basic \"Ánanda Márga\" meditation system is called Sahaja Yoga ('simple yoga'). The \"sahaja\" system consists of 6 meditation techniques or lessons taught one by one, on a personal basis. There is also a set of higher meditation lessons taught to advanced practitioners committed to dedicate more time for spiritual practices and universal service.\n\nAccording to the \"Ananda Marga\" system the \"Lalita Marmika\" dance is performed, particularly during the collective meditation. This \"yogic\" dance with swaying movements, combined with a \"kirtan\" (the chanting of the universal \"mantra\"), is regarded as useful in freeing the mind and preparing it for meditation.\n\"Ananda Marga\" system recommends to its members the practice of collective meditation at least once a week. These meetings called \"Dharma Chakras\" (weekly held in a place called \"Dhyan Mandir\") are preceded by the singing of few \"Prabhat Samgiita\" (\"Songs of the New Dawn\" composed by the \"Ananda Marga\" founder) followed by the spiritual dance of \"Lalita Marmika\" along with the singing of ' and by the practice of meditation. Before meditation the ' \"mantra\" is chanted. At the end of meditation the ' and the ' \"mantras\" are recited.\n\n The basic practices of Ananda Marga consist of yoga asanas, \"mudras\", \"bandhas\", \"pranayama\", \"self-massage\" and two specific dances, \"kaos'ikii\" and \"tandava\". Lacto-vegetarian diet and fasting are also included, as a fundamental part of yogic practice.\n\nThe philosophy of \"Ananda Marga\" is a synthetic outlook, recognizing a thiestic singulatity or 'Supreme Consciousness', which is claimed to be both transcendental and manifested in all. It covers both the spiritual and the social combining the two in a unique synthesis of universal vision.\nTo this end \"Ananda Marga\" suggests a practical, rational, and systematic way of life for the balanced development of all human potentialities: physical, psychic and spiritual. This system incorporate practices that range from hygiene and diet, yoga postures, to a scientific technique of meditation based on moral rules and directed to the inner fulfillment. It recognizes that a balance is needed between the spiritual and mundane aspects of existence, and that neither one should be neglected at the expense of the other. Hence, the goal of \"Ananda Marga\" is \"self-realization and the welfare of all\".\n\nThe spiritual philosophy of \"Ananda Marga\" covers a vast range of topics and can be learned from P.R. Sarkar's publications. \"Ananda Marga\" philosophy recognizes that the universe is the creation of the mental thought waves of the 'Supreme consciousness'. The following is a brief list of the essential elements of \"Ananda Marga\" Spiritual Philosophy:\n\nThe social outlook of \"Ananda Marga\" recognizes that the welfare of the individual is linked with the welfare of the collective, each relying on the other for its existence and dynamism. According to this philosophy everyone has the right to equal opportunities of life and development and as such there should be no discrimination on the basis of superficial barriers such as race, nationality and religion. \"Ananda Marga\" advocates a world of justice, security and peace for all. The Social Philosophy of \"Ananda Marga\" can be categorized under the topics: \n\n\nSarkar weaves continuity with the ancient philosophy of \"Tantra\", infusing new insights in human psychology, social theory and in each individuals' roles as spiritual and \"socio-economic-cultural-political\" beings.\n\"Ánanda Márga Tantra\" has a broad metaphysical base which allows for ways of knowing, feeling and processing which go far beyond intellectuality or limited rationality. Priorities are given to the spiritual development, as Shrii Shrii Ánandamúrti notes, \"spiritual life controls all other arenas of human life.\"\n\"Ananda Marga Tantra\" is a principle, a science which if practiced will lead to the desired objective. The essence of \"Tantra\" is to awaken the latent spiritual force in the human personality and unify oneself with the Cosmic Consciousness.\n\nAccording to \"tantric\" tradition a proper preceptor and a proper disciple are both essential for success on the path of \"Tantra\".\nP.R. Sarkar clearly explains that, disciples are of three categories: 1) disciples that acquire spiritual knowledge when they are in close contact with the preceptor, but as soon as they are apart from him they forget all his/her teachings, 2) disciples that learn many things from the preceptor with great hardship, but do not take proper care to preserve those instructions. They lose their hard-earned knowledge out of negligence, 3) disciples that carefully preserve deep in their minds and hearts whatever they have learned from their preceptor by wisely putting those teachings into practice. This is the best category of disciples.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "10331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10331", "title": "Ancient Egyptian religion", "text": "Ancient Egyptian religion\n\nAncient Egyptian religion was a complex system of polytheistic beliefs and rituals that formed an integral part of ancient Egyptian society. It centered on the Egyptians' interaction with many deities believed to be present in, and in control of, the world. Rituals such as prayer and offerings were provided to the gods to gain their favor. Formal religious practice centered on the pharaoh, the rulers of Egypt, believed to possess a divine power by virtue of their position. They acted as intermediaries between their people and the gods, and were obligated to sustain the gods through rituals and offerings so that they could maintain \"maat\", the order of the cosmos. The state dedicated enormous resources to Egyptian rituals and to the construction of the temples.\n\nIndividuals could interact with the gods for their own purposes, appealing for help through prayer or compelling the gods to act through magic. These practices were distinct from, but closely linked with, the formal rituals and institutions. The popular religious tradition grew more prominent in the course of Egyptian history as the status of the pharaoh declined. Egyptian belief in the afterlife and funerary practices is evident in great efforts made to ensure the survival of their souls after death, providing tombs, grave goods, and offerings to preserve the bodies and spirits of the deceased.\n\nThe religion had its roots in Egypt's prehistory and lasted for more than 3,000 years. The details of religious belief changed over time as the importance of particular gods rose and declined, and their intricate relationships shifted. At various times, certain gods became preeminent over the others, including the sun god Ra, the creator god Amun, and the mother goddess Isis. For a brief period, in the theology promulgated by the Pharaoh Akhenaten, a single god, the Aten, replaced the traditional pantheon. Ancient Egyptian religion and mythology left behind many writings and monuments, along with significant influences on ancient and modern cultures.\n\nThe beliefs and rituals now referred to as \"ancient Egyptian religion\" were integral within every aspect of Egyptian culture. The Egyptian language possessed no single term corresponding to the modern European concept of religion. Ancient Egyptian religion was not a monolithic institution, but consisted of a vast and varying set of beliefs and practices, linked by their common focus on the interaction between the world of humans and the world of the divine. The characteristics of the gods who populated the divine realm were inextricably linked to the Egyptians' understanding of the properties of the world in which they lived.\n\nThe Egyptians believed that the phenomena of nature were divine forces in and of themselves. These deified forces included the elements, animal characteristics, or abstract forces. The Egyptians believed in a pantheon of gods, which were involved in all aspects of nature and human society. Their religious practices were efforts to sustain and placate these phenomena and turn them to human advantage. This polytheistic system was very complex, as some deities were believed to exist in many different manifestations, and some had multiple mythological roles. Conversely, many natural forces, such as the sun, were associated with multiple deities. The diverse pantheon ranged from gods with vital roles in the universe to minor deities or \"demons\" with very limited or localized functions. It could include gods adopted from foreign cultures, and sometimes humans: deceased pharaohs were believed to be divine, and occasionally, distinguished commoners such as Imhotep also became deified.\n\nThe depictions of the gods in art were not meant as literal representations of how the gods might appear if they were visible, as the gods' true natures were believed to be mysterious. Instead, these depictions gave recognizable forms to the abstract deities by using symbolic imagery to indicate each god's role in nature. Thus, for example, the funerary god Anubis was portrayed as a jackal, a creature whose scavenging habits threatened the preservation of the body, in an effort to counter this threat and employ it for protection. His black skin was symbolic of the color of mummified flesh and the fertile black soil that Egyptians saw as a symbol of resurrection. This iconography was not fixed, and many of the gods could be depicted in more than one form.\n\nMany gods were associated with particular regions in Egypt where their cults were most important. However, these associations changed over time, and they did not mean that the god associated with a place had originated there. For instance, the god Montu was the original patron of the city of Thebes. Over the course of the Middle Kingdom, however, he was displaced in that role by Amun, who may have arisen elsewhere. The national popularity and importance of individual gods fluctuated in a similar way.\n\nThe Egyptian gods had complex interrelationships, which partly reflected the interaction of the forces they represented. The Egyptians often grouped gods together to reflect these relationships. Some groups of deities were of indeterminate size, and were linked by their similar functions. These often consisted of minor deities with little individual identity. Other combinations linked independent deities based on the symbolic meaning of numbers in Egyptian mythology; for instance, pairs of deities usually represent the duality of opposite phenomena. One of the more common combinations was a family triad consisting of a father, mother, and child, who were worshipped together. Some groups had wide-ranging importance. One such group, the Ennead, assembled nine deities into a theological system that was involved in the mythological areas of creation, kingship, and the afterlife.\n\nThe relationships between deities could also be expressed in the process of syncretism, in which two or more different gods were linked to form a composite deity. This process was a recognition of the presence of one god \"in\" another when the second god took on a role belonging to the first. These links between deities were fluid, and did not represent the permanent merging of two gods into one; therefore, some gods could develop multiple syncretic connections. Sometimes, syncretism combined deities with very similar characteristics. At other times it joined gods with very different natures, as when Amun, the god of hidden power, was linked with Ra, the god of the sun. The resulting god, Amun-Ra, thus united the power that lay behind all things with the greatest and most visible force in nature.\n\nMany deities could be given epithets that seem to indicate that they were greater than any other god, suggesting some kind of unity beyond the multitude of natural forces. This is particularly true of a few gods who, at various points, rose to supreme importance in Egyptian religion. These included the royal patron Horus, the sun god Ra, and the mother goddess Isis. During the New Kingdom (c. 1550–1070 BC) Amun held this position. The theology of the period described in particular detail Amun's presence in and rule over all things, so that he, more than any other deity, embodied the all-encompassing power of the divine.\n\nBecause of theological statements like this, many past Egyptologists, such as , believed that beneath the polytheistic traditions of Egyptian religion there was an increasing belief in a unity of the divine, moving toward monotheism. Instances in Egyptian literature where \"god\" is mentioned without reference to any specific deity would seem to give this view added weight. However, in 1971 Erik Hornung pointed out that the traits of an apparently supreme being could be attributed to many different gods, even in periods when other gods were preeminent, and further argued that references to an unspecified \"god\" are meant to refer flexibly to any deity. He therefore argued that, while some individuals may have henotheistically chosen one god to worship, Egyptian religion as a whole had no notion of a divine being beyond the immediate multitude of deities. Yet the debate did not end there; Jan Assmann and James P. Allen have since asserted that the Egyptians did to some degree recognize a single divine force. In Allen's view, the notion of an underlying unity of the divine coexisted inclusively with the polytheistic tradition. It is possible that only the Egyptian theologians fully recognized this underlying unity, but it is also possible that ordinary Egyptians identified the single divine force with a single god in particular situations.\n\nDuring the New Kingdom the pharaoh Akhenaten abolished the official worship of other gods in favor of the sun-disk Aten. This is often seen as the first instance of true monotheism in history, although the details of Atenist theology are still unclear and the suggestion that it was monotheistic is disputed. The exclusion of all but one god from worship was a radical departure from Egyptian tradition and some see Akhenaten as a practitioner of monolatry rather than monotheism, as he did not actively deny the existence of other gods; he simply refrained from worshipping any but the Aten. Under Akhenaten's successors Egypt reverted to its traditional religion, and Akhenaten himself came to be reviled as a heretic.\n\nThe Egyptian conception of the universe centered on \"Maat\", a word that encompasses several concepts in English, including \"truth\", \"justice\", and \"order.\" It was the fixed, eternal order of the universe, both in the cosmos and in human society. It had existed since the creation of the world, and without it the world would lose its cohesion. In Egyptian belief, Maat was constantly under threat from the forces of disorder, so all of society was required to maintain it. On the human level this meant that all members of society should cooperate and coexist; on the cosmic level it meant that all of the forces of nature—the gods—should continue to function in balance. This latter goal was central to Egyptian religion. The Egyptians sought to maintain Maat in the cosmos by sustaining the gods through offerings and by performing rituals which staved off disorder and perpetuated the cycles of nature.\n\nThe most important part of the Egyptian view of the cosmos was the conception of time, which was greatly concerned with the maintenance of Maat. Throughout the linear passage of time, a cyclical pattern recurred, in which Maat was renewed by periodic events which echoed the original creation. Among these events were the annual Nile flood and the succession from one king to another, but the most important was the daily journey of the sun god Ra.\n\nWhen thinking of the shape of the cosmos, the Egyptians saw the earth as a flat expanse of land, personified by the god Geb, over which arched the sky goddess Nut. The two were separated by Shu, the god of air. Beneath the earth lay a parallel underworld and undersky, and beyond the skies lay the infinite expanse of Nu, the chaos that had existed before creation. The Egyptians also believed in a place called the Duat, a mysterious region associated with death and rebirth, that may have lain in the underworld or in the sky. Each day, Ra traveled over the earth across the underside of the sky, and at night he passed through the Duat to be reborn at dawn.\n\nIn Egyptian belief, this cosmos was inhabited by three types of sentient beings. One was the gods; another was the spirits of deceased humans, who existed in the divine realm and possessed many of the gods' abilities. Living humans were the third category, and the most important among them was the pharaoh, who bridged the human and divine realms.\n\nEgyptologists have long debated the degree to which the pharaoh was considered a god. It seems most likely that the Egyptians viewed royal authority itself as a divine force. Therefore, although the Egyptians recognized that the pharaoh was human and subject to human weakness, they simultaneously viewed him as a god, because the divine power of kingship was incarnated in him. He therefore acted as intermediary between Egypt's people and the gods. He was key to upholding Maat, both by maintaining justice and harmony in human society and by sustaining the gods with temples and offerings. For these reasons, he oversaw all state religious activity. However, the pharaoh's real-life influence and prestige could differ from his portrayal in official writings and depictions, and beginning in the late New Kingdom his religious importance declined drastically.\n\nThe king was also associated with many specific deities. He was identified directly with Horus, who represented kingship itself, and he was seen as the son of Ra, who ruled and regulated nature as the pharaoh ruled and regulated society. By the New Kingdom he was also associated with Amun, the supreme force in the cosmos. Upon his death, the king became fully deified. In this state, he was directly identified with Ra, and was also associated with Osiris, god of death and rebirth and the mythological father of Horus. Many mortuary temples were dedicated to the worship of deceased pharaohs as gods.\n\nThe Egyptians had elaborate beliefs about death and the afterlife. They believed that humans possessed a \"ka\", or life-force, which left the body at the point of death. In life, the \"ka\" received its sustenance from food and drink, so it was believed that, to endure after death, the \"ka\" must continue to receive offerings of food, whose spiritual essence it could still consume. Each person also had a \"ba\", the set of spiritual characteristics unique to each individual. Unlike the \"ka\", the \"ba\" remained attached to the body after death. Egyptian funeral rituals were intended to release the \"ba\" from the body so that it could move freely, and to rejoin it with the \"ka\" so that it could live on as an \"akh\". However, it was also important that the body of the deceased be preserved, as the Egyptians believed that the \"ba\" returned to its body each night to receive new life, before emerging in the morning as an \"akh\".\n\nIn early times the deceased pharaoh was believed to ascend to the sky and dwell among the stars. Over the course of the Old Kingdom (c. 2686–2181 BC), however, he came to be more closely associated with the daily rebirth of the sun god Ra and with the underworld ruler Osiris as those deities grew more important.\n\nIn the fully developed afterlife beliefs of the New Kingdom, the soul had to avoid a variety of supernatural dangers in the Duat, before undergoing a final judgment, known as the \"Weighing of the Heart\", carried out by Osiris and by the Assessors of Maat. In this judgment, the gods compared the actions of the deceased while alive (symbolized by the heart) to Maat, to determine whether he or she had behaved in accordance with Maat. If the deceased was judged worthy, his or her \"ka\" and \"ba\" were united into an \"akh\". Several beliefs coexisted about the \"akh\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s destination. Often the dead were said to dwell in the realm of Osiris, a lush and pleasant land in the underworld. The solar vision of the afterlife, in which the deceased soul traveled with Ra on his daily journey, was still primarily associated with royalty, but could extend to other people as well. Over the course of the Middle and New Kingdoms, the notion that the \"akh\" could also travel in the world of the living, and to some degree magically affect events there, became increasingly prevalent.\n\nWhile the Egyptians had no unified religious scripture, they produced many religious writings of various types. Together the disparate texts provide a very extensive, but still incomplete, understanding of Egyptian religious practices and beliefs.\n\nEgyptian myths were metaphorical stories intended to illustrate and explain the gods' actions and roles in nature. The details of the events they recounted could change to convey different symbolic perspectives on the mysterious divine events they described, so many myths exist in different and conflicting versions. Mythical narratives were rarely written in full, and more often texts only contain episodes from or allusions to a larger myth. Knowledge of Egyptian mythology, therefore, is derived mostly from hymns that detail the roles of specific deities, from ritual and magical texts which describe actions related to mythic events, and from funerary texts which mention the roles of many deities in the afterlife. Some information is also provided by allusions in secular texts. Finally, Greeks and Romans such as Plutarch recorded some of the extant myths late in Egyptian history.\n\nAmong the significant Egyptian myths were the creation myths. According to these stories, the world emerged as a dry space in the primordial ocean of chaos. Because the sun is essential to life on earth, the first rising of Ra marked the moment of this emergence. Different forms of the myth describe the process of creation in various ways: a transformation of the primordial god Atum into the elements that form the world, as the creative speech of the intellectual god Ptah, and as an act of the hidden power of Amun. Regardless of these variations, the act of creation represented the initial establishment of maat and the pattern for the subsequent cycles of time.\n\nThe most important of all Egyptian myths was the myth of Osiris and Isis. It tells of the divine ruler Osiris, who was murdered by his jealous brother Set, a god often associated with chaos. Osiris' sister and wife Isis resurrected him so that he could conceive an heir, Horus. Osiris then entered the underworld and became the ruler of the dead. Once grown, Horus fought and defeated Set to become king himself. Set's association with chaos, and the identification of Osiris and Horus as the rightful rulers, provided a rationale for Pharaonic succession and portrayed the Pharaohs as the upholders of order. At the same time, Osiris' death and rebirth were related to the Egyptian agricultural cycle, in which crops grew in the wake of the Nile inundation, and provided a template for the resurrection of human souls after death.\n\nAnother important mythic motif was the journey of Ra through the Duat each night. In the course of this journey, Ra met with Osiris, who again acted as an agent of regeneration, so that his life was renewed. He also fought each night with Apep, a serpentine god representing chaos. The defeat of Apep and the meeting with Osiris ensured the rising of the sun the next morning, an event that represented rebirth and the victory of order over chaos.\n\nThe procedures for religious rituals were frequently written on papyri, which were used as instructions for those performing the ritual. These ritual texts were kept mainly in the temple libraries. Temples themselves are also inscribed with such texts, often accompanied by illustrations. Unlike the ritual papyri, these inscriptions were not intended as instructions, but were meant to symbolically perpetuate the rituals even if, in reality, people ceased to perform them. Magical texts likewise describe rituals, although these rituals were part of the spells used for specific goals in everyday life. Despite their mundane purpose, many of these texts also originated in temple libraries and later became disseminated among the general populace.\n\nThe Egyptians produced numerous prayers and hymns, written in the form of poetry. Hymns and prayers follow a similar structure and are distinguished mainly by the purposes they serve. Hymns were written to praise particular deities. Like ritual texts, they were written on papyri and on temple walls, and they were probably recited as part of the rituals they accompany in temple inscriptions. Most are structured according to a set literary formula, designed to expound on the nature, aspects, and mythological functions of a given deity. They tend to speak more explicitly about fundamental theology than other Egyptian religious writings, and became particularly important in the New Kingdom, a period of particularly active theological discourse. Prayers follow the same general pattern as hymns, but address the relevant god in a more personal way, asking for blessings, help, or forgiveness for wrongdoing. Such prayers are rare before the New Kingdom, indicating that in earlier periods such direct personal interaction with a deity was not believed possible, or at least was less likely to be expressed in writing. They are known mainly from inscriptions on statues and stelae left in sacred sites as votive offerings.\n\nAmong the most significant and extensively preserved Egyptian writings are funerary texts designed to ensure that deceased souls reached a pleasant afterlife. The earliest of these are the Pyramid Texts. They are a loose collection of hundreds of spells inscribed on the walls of royal pyramids during the Old Kingdom, intended to magically provide pharaohs with the means to join the company of the gods in the afterlife. The spells appear in differing arrangements and combinations, and few of them appear in all of the pyramids.\n\nAt the end of the Old Kingdom a new body of funerary spells, which included material from the Pyramid Texts, began appearing in tombs, inscribed primarily on coffins. This collection of writings is known as the Coffin Texts, and was not reserved for royalty, but appeared in the tombs of non-royal officials. In the New Kingdom, several new funerary texts emerged, of which the best-known is the Book of the Dead. Unlike the earlier books, it often contains extensive illustrations, or vignettes. The book was copied on papyrus and sold to commoners to be placed in their tombs.\n\nThe Coffin Texts included sections with detailed descriptions of the underworld and instructions on how to overcome its hazards. In the New Kingdom, this material gave rise to several \"books of the netherworld\", including the Book of Gates, the Book of Caverns, and the Amduat. Unlike the loose collections of spells, these netherworld books are structured depictions of Ra's passage through the Duat, and by analogy, the journey of the deceased person's soul through the realm of the dead. They were originally restricted to pharaonic tombs, but in the Third Intermediate Period they came to be used more widely.\n\nTemples existed from the beginning of Egyptian history, and at the height of the civilization they were present in most of its towns. They included both mortuary temples to serve the spirits of deceased pharaohs and temples dedicated to patron gods, although the distinction was blurred because divinity and kingship were so closely intertwined. The temples were not primarily intended as places for worship by the general populace, and the common people had a complex set of religious practices of their own. Instead, the state-run temples served as houses for the gods, in which physical images which served as their intermediaries were cared for and provided with offerings. This service was believed to be necessary to sustain the gods, so that they could in turn maintain the universe itself. Thus, temples were central to Egyptian society, and vast resources were devoted to their upkeep, including both donations from the monarchy and large estates of their own. Pharaohs often expanded them as part of their obligation to honor the gods, so that many temples grew to enormous size. However, not all gods had temples dedicated to them, as many gods who were important in official theology received only minimal worship, and many household gods were the focus of popular veneration rather than temple ritual.\n\nThe earliest Egyptian temples were small, impermanent structures, but through the Old and Middle Kingdoms their designs grew more elaborate, and they were increasingly built out of stone. In the New Kingdom, a basic temple layout emerged, which had evolved from common elements in Old and Middle Kingdom temples. With variations, this plan was used for most of the temples built from then on, and most of those that survive today adhere to it. In this standard plan, the temple was built along a central processional way that led through a series of courts and halls to the sanctuary, which held a statue of the temple's god. Access to this most sacred part of the temple was restricted to the pharaoh and the highest-ranking priests. The journey from the temple entrance to the sanctuary was seen as a journey from the human world to the divine realm, a point emphasized by the complex mythological symbolism present in temple architecture. Well beyond the temple building proper was the outermost wall. In the space between the two lay many subsidiary buildings, including workshops and storage areas to supply the temple's needs, and the library where the temple's sacred writings and mundane records were kept, and which also served as a center of learning on a multitude of subjects.\n\nTheoretically it was the duty of the pharaoh to carry out temple rituals, as he was Egypt's official representative to the gods. In reality, ritual duties were almost always carried out by priests. During the Old and Middle Kingdoms, there was no separate class of priests; instead, many government officials served in this capacity for several months out of the year before returning to their secular duties. Only in the New Kingdom did professional priesthood become widespread, although most lower-ranking priests were still part-time. All were still employed by the state, and the pharaoh had final say in their appointments. However, as the wealth of the temples grew, the influence of their priesthoods increased, until it rivaled that of the pharaoh. In the political fragmentation of the Third Intermediate Period (c. 1070–664 BC), the high priests of Amun at Karnak even became the effective rulers of Upper Egypt. The temple staff also included many people other than priests, such as musicians and chanters in temple ceremonies. Outside the temple were artisans and other laborers who helped supply the temple's needs, as well as farmers who worked on temple estates. All were paid with portions of the temple's income. Large temples were therefore very important centers of economic activity, sometimes employing thousands of people.\n\nState religious practice included both temple rituals involved in the cult of a deity, and ceremonies related to divine kingship. Among the latter were coronation ceremonies and the sed festival, a ritual renewal of the pharaoh's strength that took place periodically during his reign. There were numerous temple rituals, including rites that took place across the country and rites limited to single temples or to the temples of a single god. Some were performed daily, while others took place annually or on rarer occasions. The most common temple ritual was the morning offering ceremony, performed daily in temples across Egypt. In it, a high-ranking priest, or occasionally the pharaoh, washed, anointed, and elaborately dressed the god's statue before presenting it with offerings. Afterward, when the god had consumed the spiritual essence of the offerings, the items themselves were taken to be distributed among the priests.\n\nThe less frequent temple rituals, or festivals, were still numerous, with dozens occurring every year. These festivals often entailed actions beyond simple offerings to the gods, such as reenactments of particular myths or the symbolic destruction of the forces of disorder. Most of these events were probably celebrated only by the priests and took place only inside the temple. However, the most important temple festivals, like the Opet Festival celebrated at Karnak, usually involved a procession carrying the god's image out of the sanctuary in a model barque to visit other significant sites, such as the temple of a related deity. Commoners gathered to watch the procession and sometimes received portions of the unusually large offerings given to the gods on these occasions.\n\nAt many sacred sites, the Egyptians worshipped individual animals which they believed to be manifestations of particular deities. These animals were selected based on specific sacred markings which were believed to indicate their fitness for the role. Some of these cult animals retained their positions for the rest of their lives, as with the Apis bull worshipped in Memphis as a manifestation of Ptah. Other animals were selected for much shorter periods. These cults grew more popular in later times, and many temples began raising stocks of such animals from which to choose a new divine manifestation. A separate practice developed in the Twenty-sixth Dynasty, when people began mummifying any member of a particular animal species as an offering to the god whom the species represented. Millions of mummified cats, birds, and other creatures were buried at temples honoring Egyptian deities. Worshippers paid the priests of a particular deity to obtain and mummify an animal associated with that deity, and the mummy was placed in a cemetery near the god's cult center.\n\nThe Egyptians used oracles to ask the gods for knowledge or guidance. Egyptian oracles are known mainly from the New Kingdom and afterward, though they probably appeared much earlier. People of all classes, including the king, asked questions of oracles, and, especially in the late New Kingdom their answers could be used to settle legal disputes or inform royal decisions. The most common means of consulting an oracle was to pose a question to the divine image while it was being carried in a festival procession, and interpret an answer from the barque's movements. Other methods included interpreting the behavior of cult animals, drawing lots, or consulting statues through which a priest apparently spoke. The means of discerning the god's will gave great influence to the priests who spoke and interpreted the god's message.\n\nWhile the state cults were meant to preserve the stability of the Egyptian world, lay individuals had their own religious practices that related more directly to daily life. This popular religion left less evidence than the official cults, and because this evidence was mostly produced by the wealthiest portion of the Egyptian population, it is uncertain to what degree it reflects the practices of the populace as a whole.\n\nPopular religious practice included ceremonies marking important transitions in life. These included birth, because of the danger involved in the process, and naming, because the name was held to be a crucial part of a person's identity. The most important of these ceremonies were those surrounding death (see \"Funerary practices\" below), because they ensured the soul's survival beyond it. Other religious practices sought to discern the gods' will or seek their knowledge. These included the interpretation of dreams, which could be seen as messages from the divine realm, and the consultation of oracles. People also sought to affect the gods' behavior to their own benefit through magical rituals (see \"Magic\" below).\n\nIndividual Egyptians also prayed to gods and gave them private offerings. Evidence of this type of personal piety is sparse before the New Kingdom. This is probably due to cultural restrictions on depiction of nonroyal religious activity, which relaxed during the Middle and New Kingdoms. Personal piety became still more prominent in the late New Kingdom, when it was believed that the gods intervened directly in individual lives, punishing wrongdoers and saving the pious from disaster. Official temples were important venues for private prayer and offering, even though their central activities were closed to laypeople. Egyptians frequently donated goods to be offered to the temple deity and objects inscribed with prayers to be placed in temple courts. Often they prayed in person before temple statues or in shrines set aside for their use. Yet in addition to temples, the populace also used separate local chapels, smaller but more accessible than the formal temples. These chapels were very numerous, and probably staffed by members of the community. Households, too, often had their own small shrines for offering to gods or deceased relatives.\n\nThe deities invoked in these situations differed somewhat from those at the center of state cults. Many of the important popular deities, such as the fertility goddess Taweret and the household protector Bes, had no temples of their own. However, many other gods, including Amun and Osiris, were very important in both popular and official religion. Some individuals might be particularly devoted to a single god. Often they favored deities affiliated with their own region, or with their role in life. The god Ptah, for instance, was particularly important in his cult center of Memphis, but as the patron of craftsmen he received the nationwide veneration of many in that occupation.\n\nThe word \"magic\" could be used to translate the Egyptian term \"heka\", which meant, as James P. Allen puts it, \"the ability to make things happen by indirect means\". Heka was believed to be a natural phenomenon, the force which was used to create the universe and which the gods employed to work their will. Humans could also use it, however, and magical practices were closely intertwined with religion. In fact, even the regular rituals performed in temples were counted as magic. Individuals also frequently employed magical techniques for personal purposes. Although these ends could be harmful to other people, no form of magic was considered inimical in itself. Instead, magic was seen primarily as a way for humans to prevent or overcome negative events.\n\nMagic was closely associated with the priesthood. Because temple libraries contained numerous magical texts, great magical knowledge was ascribed to the lector priests who studied these texts. These priests often worked outside their temples, hiring out their magical services to laymen. Other professions also commonly employed magic as part of their work, including doctors, scorpion-charmers, and makers of magical amulets. It is also likely that the peasantry used simple magic for their own purposes, but because this magical knowledge would have been passed down orally, there is limited evidence of it.\n\nLanguage was closely linked with heka, to such a degree that Thoth, the god of writing, was sometimes said to be the inventor of heka. Therefore, magic frequently involved written or spoken incantations, although these were usually accompanied by ritual actions. Often these rituals invoked the power of an appropriate deity to perform the desired action, using the power of heka to compel it to act. Sometimes this entailed casting the practitioner or subject of a ritual in the role of a character in mythology, thus inducing the god to act toward that person as it had in the myth. Rituals also employed sympathetic magic, using objects believed to have a magically significant resemblance to the subject of the rite. The Egyptians also commonly used objects believed to be imbued with heka of their own, such as the magically protective amulets worn in great numbers by ordinary Egyptians.\n\nBecause it was considered necessary for the survival of the soul, preservation of the body was a central part of Egyptian funerary practices. Originally the Egyptians buried their dead in the desert, where the arid conditions mummified the body naturally. In the Early Dynastic Period, however, they began using tombs for greater protection, and the body was insulated from the desiccating effect of the sand and was subject to natural decay. Thus the Egyptians developed their elaborate embalming practices, in which the corpse was artificially desiccated and wrapped to be placed in its coffin. The quality of the process varied according to cost, however, and those who could not afford it were still buried in desert graves.\nOnce the mummification process was complete, the mummy was carried from the deceased person's house to the tomb in a funeral procession that included his or her friends and relatives, along with a variety of priests. Before the burial, these priests performed several rituals, including the Opening of the mouth ceremony intended to restore the dead person's senses and give him or her the ability to receive offerings. Then the mummy was buried and the tomb sealed. Afterward, relatives or hired priests gave food offerings to the deceased in a nearby mortuary chapel at regular intervals. Over time, families inevitably neglected offerings to long-dead relatives, so most mortuary cults only lasted one or two generations. However, while the cult lasted, the living sometimes wrote letters asking deceased relatives for help, in the belief that the dead could affect the world of the living as the gods did.\n\nThe first Egyptian tombs were mastabas, rectangular brick structures where kings and nobles were entombed. Each of them contained a subterranean burial chamber and a separate, above ground chapel for mortuary rituals. In the Old Kingdom the mastaba developed into the pyramid, which symbolized the primeval mound of Egyptian myth. Pyramids were reserved for royalty, and were accompanied by large mortuary temples sitting at their base. Middle Kingdom pharaohs continued to build pyramids, but the popularity of mastabas waned. Increasingly, commoners with sufficient means were buried in rock-cut tombs with separate mortuary chapels nearby, an approach which was less vulnerable to tomb robbery. By the beginning of the New Kingdom even the pharaohs were buried in such tombs, and they continued to be used until the decline of the religion itself.\n\nTombs could contain a great variety of other items, including statues of the deceased to serve as substitutes for the body in case it was damaged. Because it was believed that the deceased would have to do work in the afterlife, just as in life, burials often included small models of humans to do work in place of the deceased. The tombs of wealthier individuals could also contain furniture, clothing, and other everyday objects intended for use in the afterlife, along with amulets and other items intended to provide magical protection against the hazards of the spirit world. Further protection was provided by funerary texts included in the burial. The tomb walls also bore artwork, including images of the deceased eating food which were believed to allow him or her to magically receive sustenance even after the mortuary offerings had ceased.\n\nThe beginnings of Egyptian religion extend into prehistory, though evidence for them comes only from the sparse and ambiguous archaeological record. Careful burials during the Predynastic period imply that the people of this time believed in some form of an afterlife. At the same time, animals were ritually buried, a practice which may reflect the development of zoomorphic deities like those found in the later religion. The evidence is less clear for gods in human form, and this type of deity may have emerged more slowly than those in animal shape. Each region of Egypt originally had its own patron deity, but it is likely that as these small communities conquered or absorbed each other, the god of the defeated area was either incorporated into the other god's mythology or entirely subsumed by it. This resulted in a complex pantheon in which some deities remained only locally important while others developed more universal significance.\n\nThe Early Dynastic Period began with the unification of Egypt around 3000 BC. This event transformed Egyptian religion, as some deities rose to national importance and the cult of the divine pharaoh became the central focus of religious activity. Horus was identified with the king, and his cult center in the Upper Egyptian city of Nekhen was among the most important religious sites of the period. Another important center was Abydos, where the early rulers built large funerary complexes.\n\nDuring the Old Kingdom, the priesthoods of the major deities attempted to organize the complicated national pantheon into groups linked by their mythology and worshipped in a single cult center, such as the Ennead of Heliopolis which linked important deities such as Atum, Ra, Osiris, and Set in a single creation myth. Meanwhile, pyramids, accompanied by large mortuary temple complexes, replaced mastabas as the tombs of pharaohs. In contrast with the great size of the pyramid complexes, temples to gods remained comparatively small, suggesting that official religion in this period emphasized the cult of the divine king more than the direct worship of deities. The funerary rituals and architecture of this time greatly influenced the more elaborate temples and rituals used in worshipping the gods in later periods.\nEarly in the Old Kingdom, Ra grew in influence, and his cult center at Heliopolis became the nation's most important religious site. By the Fifth Dynasty, Ra was the most prominent god in Egypt, and had developed the close links with kingship and the afterlife that he retained for the rest of Egyptian history. Around the same time, Osiris became an important afterlife deity. \"The Pyramid Texts,\" first written at this time, reflect the prominence of the solar and Osirian concepts of the afterlife, although they also contain remnants of much older traditions. The texts are an extremely important source for understanding early Egyptian theology.\n\nIn the 22nd century BC, the Old Kingdom collapsed into the disorder of the First Intermediate Period. Eventually rulers from Thebes reunified the Egyptian nation in the Middle Kingdom (c. 2055–1650 BC). These Theban pharaohs initially promoted their patron god Montu to national importance, but during the Middle Kingdom, he was eclipsed by the rising popularity of Amun. In this new Egyptian state, personal piety grew more important and was expressed more freely in writing, a trend which continued in the New Kingdom.\n\nThe Middle Kingdom crumbled in the Second Intermediate Period (c. 1650–1550 BC), but the country was again reunited by Theban rulers, who became the first pharaohs of the New Kingdom. Under the new regime, Amun became the supreme state god. He was syncretized with Ra, the long-established patron of kingship, and his temple at Karnak in Thebes became Egypt's most important religious center. Amun's elevation was partly due to the great importance of Thebes, but it was also due to the increasingly professional priesthood. Their sophisticated theological discussion produced detailed descriptions of Amun's universal power.\n\nIncreased contact with outside peoples in this period led to the adoption of many Near Eastern deities into the pantheon. At the same time, the subjugated Nubians absorbed Egyptian religious beliefs, and in particular, adopted Amun as their own.\nThe New Kingdom religious order was disrupted when Akhenaten acceded, and replaced Amun with the Aten as the state god. Eventually he eliminated the official worship of most other gods, and moved Egypt's capital to a new city at Amarna. This part of Egyptian history, the Amarna period, is named after this. In doing so, Akhenaten claimed unprecedented status: only he could worship the Aten, and the populace directed their worship toward him. The Atenist system lacked well-developed mythology and afterlife beliefs, and the Aten seemed distant and impersonal, so the new order did not appeal to ordinary Egyptians. Thus, many probably continued to worship the traditional gods in private. Nevertheless, the withdrawal of state support for the other deities severely disrupted Egyptian society. Akhenaten's successors restored the traditional religious system, and eventually they dismantled all Atenist monuments.\n\nBefore the Amarna period, popular religion had trended toward more personal relationships between worshippers and their gods. Akhenaten's changes had reversed this trend, but once the traditional religion was restored, there was a backlash. The populace began to believe that the gods were much more directly involved in daily life. Amun, the supreme god, was increasingly seen as the final arbiter of human destiny, the true ruler of Egypt. The pharaoh was correspondingly more human and less divine. The importance of oracles as a means of decision-making grew, as did the wealth and influence of the oracles' interpreters, the priesthood. These trends undermined the traditional structure of society and contributed to the breakdown of the New Kingdom.\n\nIn the 1st millennium BC, Egypt was significantly weaker than in earlier times, and in several periods foreigners seized the country and assumed the position of pharaoh. The importance of the pharaoh continued to decline, and the emphasis on popular piety continued to increase. Animal cults, a characteristically Egyptian form of worship, became increasingly popular in this period, possibly as a response to the uncertainty and foreign influence of the time. Isis grew more popular as a goddess of protection, magic, and personal salvation, and became the most important goddess in Egypt.\nIn the 4th century BC, Egypt became a Hellenistic kingdom under the Ptolemaic dynasty (305–30 BC), which assumed the pharaonic role, maintaining the traditional religion and building or rebuilding many temples. The kingdom's Greek ruling class identified the Egyptian deities with their own. From this cross-cultural syncretism emerged Serapis, a god who combined Osiris and Apis with characteristics of Greek deities, and who became very popular among the Greek population. Nevertheless, for the most part the two belief systems remained separate, and the Egyptian deities remained Egyptian.\n\nPtolemaic-era beliefs changed little after Egypt became a province of the Roman Empire in 30 BC, with the Ptolemaic kings replaced by distant emperors. The cult of Isis appealed even to Greeks and Romans outside Egypt, and in Hellenized form it spread across the empire. In Egypt itself, as the empire weakened, official temples fell into decay, and without their centralizing influence religious practice became fragmented and localized. Meanwhile, Christianity spread across Egypt, and in the third and fourth centuries AD, edicts by Christian emperors and iconoclasm by local Christians eroded traditional beliefs. While it persisted among the populace for some time, Egyptian religion slowly faded away.\n\nEgyptian religion produced the temples and tombs which are ancient Egypt's most enduring monuments, but it also influenced other cultures. In pharaonic times many of its symbols, such as the sphinx and winged solar disk, were adopted by other cultures across the Mediterranean and Near East, as were some of its deities, such as Bes. Some of these connections are difficult to trace. The Greek concept of Elysium may have derived from the Egyptian vision of the afterlife. In late antiquity, the Christian conception of Hell was most likely influenced by some of the imagery of the Duat. Egyptian beliefs also influenced or gave rise to several esoteric belief systems developed by Greeks and Romans, who considered Egypt as a source of mystic wisdom. Hermeticism, for instance, derived from the tradition of secret magical knowledge associated with Thoth.\n\nTraces of ancient beliefs remained in Egyptian folk traditions into modern times, but its influence on modern societies greatly increased with the French Campaign in Egypt and Syria in 1798 and their seeing the monuments and images. As a result of it, Westerners began to study Egyptian beliefs firsthand, and Egyptian religious motifs were adopted into Western art. Egyptian religion has since had a significant influence in popular culture. Due to continued interest in Egyptian beliefs, in the late 20th century, several new religious groups going under the blanket term of Kemetism have formed based on different reconstructions of ancient Egyptian religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12573958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12573958", "title": "Arabi Malayalam", "text": "Arabi Malayalam\n\nArabi-Malayalam (Malayalam: , Arabi Malayalam: عَرَبِ-مَلَیَاۻَمٛ) is a writing system - a variant form of the Arabic script with special orthographic features - for writing Malayalam, a Dravidian language in southern India. Though the script originated and developed in South India, today it is predominantly used in Malaysia and Singapore by the migrant Muslim community. \n\nUntil the 20th century, the script was widely taught to all Muslims - including young women - in the primary education madrasahs of Kerala. Arabi-Malayalam is currently used in some of the primary education madrasahs of Kerala and Lakshadweep.\n\nThere were many complications to write Malayalam, a Dravidian language, using letters covering Arabic, a Semitic language. Only 28 letters were available from Arabic orthography to render over 53 phonemes of Malayalam. It was overcome by following the pattern of creating additional letters established for Persian. The letters such as , , , , , , , were not available in the Arabic alphabets. The characters which stand for , , , () are respectively in Arabi Malayalam.\n\nVowels\n\n<poem>\nഅ = اَ\nആ = آ\nഇ = اِ\nഈ = اِي\nഉ = اُ\nഊ = اُو\nഋ = رْ\nഎ = ا٘\nഏ = ا٘ي\nഐ = اَيْ\nഒ = اٗ\nഓ = اٗو\nഔ = اَوْ\nഅം = اَمْ\n</poem>\nConsonants\n\n<poem>\nക = ك/ک\nഖ = كھ\nഗ = گ\nഘ = گھ\nങ = ۼ\nച = چ\nഛ = چھ\nജ = ج\nഝ = جھ\nഞ = ڿ\nട = ڊ\nഠ = ڊھ\nഡ = ڗ\nഢ = ڗھ\nണ = ڹ\nത = ت\nഥ = تھ\nദ = د\nധ = دھ\nന = ن\nപ = پ\nഫ = پھ/ف\nബ = ب\nഭ = بھ\nമ = م\nയ = ي\nര = ڔ\nല = ل\nവ = و\nശ = ش\nഷ = ۺ\nസ = س\nഹ = ھ/ﮭ\nള = ۻ\nഴ = ژ\nറ = ر\nറ്റ = ڔّ\n</poem>\nMost of the Mappila Songs were written, for the first time, in Arabi-Malayalam script. The earliest known such work is the \"Muhyidheen Mala\", written in 1607.\n\nA large number of literary works written in Arabi Malayalam still have not been transliterated to the Malayalam script, and some estimates put the number at almost 90 percent. These works, romantic ballads, folk tales and battle songs, contain some of the impressive literary achievements by Mappilas over the centuries.\n\nThe first Arabi Malayalam scripted novel, \"Chahar Dervesh\", Malaylam translation of a Persian work, was published in 1883. Intellectuals such as Moyinkutty Vaidyar translated, and then transliterated significant number of works in Sanskrit - such as \"Ashtanga Hridaya, Amarakosa, Pancatantra\" and even the legends about the Hindu king Vikramaditya - into Arabi Malayalam. Sanskrit medical texts - such as \"Upakarasara\", \"Yogarambha\" and \"Mahasara\" - were also translated, and then transliterated into Arabi-Malayalam by scholars like Abdurahiman Musaliar of Ponnani Putiyakattu. Arabi Malayalam script periodicals made remarkable contributions to the reform movement amongst the Mappilas in the early 20th century. \"Al-Irshad\", published in 1923 by the \"Muslim Aikya Sangham\" played an important role in explaining the doctrines of Islam to the common Mappila and distinguishing between what the reformers called religious practices and \"superstitions\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13299767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13299767", "title": "Arnold Potter", "text": "Arnold Potter\n\nArnold Potter (January 11, 1804 – April 2, 1872) was a self-declared Messiah and a leader of a schismatic sect in the Latter Day Saint movement. Potter referred to himself as Potter Christ.\n\nPotter was born in Herkimer County, New York. At age 19, he married Almira Smith. By 1835 Potter had moved with his wife and children to Switzerland County, Indiana. On November 10, 1839, Potter and his family were baptized by missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.\n\nIn April 1840, Potter and his family moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, to join the main gathering of Latter Day Saints. On April 24, 1840, Potter was given the Melchizedek priesthood and ordained to the priesthood office of elder by Joseph Smith. On June 1, 1840, Potter received a patriarchal blessing from church patriarch Joseph Smith, Sr. Potter settled in Sand Prairie, Iowa, where he was the presiding elder of the church. In January 1845, Potter became a seventy in the church.\n\nIn 1848, Potter traveled to the Salt Lake Valley as a Mormon pioneer. By 1856, he had moved from Utah Territory to San Bernardino, California. On March 16, 1856, Potter received a call to serve as a missionary in Australia from LDS Church president Brigham Young. Later that year, Potter left California for Australia on the ship \"Osprey\".\n\nPotter later claimed that during his trip to Australia, he underwent a \"purifying, quickening change\" whereby his own spiritual body, called \"Christ\", entered into his body and he became \"Potter Christ, Son of the living God\". During his time in Australia, Potter wrote a book which he said was dictated to him by angels; it was described by Potter as the book from which all people were to be judged at the Final Judgment.\n\nPotter returned to California by October 1857. A Latter-day Saint observer described Potter's re-appearance in the community:\n\nWednesday 21 October 1857—Arnold Potter, who calls himself Potter Christ, appeared in our streets today with a brand on his forehead which had been put in with India ink. The words which can be read at quite a distance, are \"Potter Christ—The Living God—Morning Star\". To the right of the inscription is a star, below a cross. He appears very desirous of winning followers. It is said there are several apostates about to join him.\nBy 1861, Potter and some of his followers had left California with the intention of settling near Independence, Missouri, the traditional location of Zion for the Latter Day Saints. They settled at Saint Marys in northwest Mills County, Iowa. When Saint Marys was destroyed by flooding in 1865, they moved to Council Bluffs, Iowa. Potter spent his days wandering the streets in Council Bluffs wearing a long white robe and became a local oddity. Potter's followers in Council Bluffs were described as \"few but devout\". The men wore black robes and the women eschewed normal grooming practices. Potter and his followers held enthusiastic prayer meetings which would often culminate in Potter declaring a new revelation from God.\n\nIn 1872, Potter announced at a meeting of his church that the time had come for his ascent into heaven. Followed by his disciples, Potter rode a donkey to the edge of the bluffs, whereupon he leapt off the edge intending to \"ascend,\" but instead fell to his death. His body was collected and buried by his followers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29510596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29510596", "title": "Atheism in Christianity", "text": "Atheism in Christianity\n\nAtheism in Christianity () is a 1968 book by Marxist philosopher Ernst Bloch. The book offers a third way to the Christian/atheist either/or debate. Gareth Jenkins from Socialist Review says that Bloch \"argues that there are liberatory, 'atheist' elements within Christianity with which socialists should make common cause.\"\n\nNicholas Lezard of \"The Guardian\" called it \"exhilarating to read\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58204", "title": "Baal", "text": "Baal\n\nBaal (), properly Baʿal, was a title and honorific meaning \"owner,\" \"lord\" in the Northwest Semitic languages spoken in the Levant during antiquity. From its use among people, it came to be applied to gods. Scholars previously associated the theonym with solar cults and with a variety of unrelated patron deities, but inscriptions have shown that the name Baʿal was particularly associated with the storm and fertility god Hadad and his local manifestations.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible, compiled and curated over a span of centuries, includes generic use of the term in reference to various Levantine deities, and finally pointed application towards Hadad, who was decried as a false god. That use was taken over into Christianity and Islam, sometimes under the opprobrious form Beelzebub in demonology.\n\nThe spelling of the English term \"Baal\" derives from the Greek \"Báal\" (), which appears in the New Testament and Septuagint, and from its Latinized form \"\", which appears in the Vulgate. These forms in turn derive from the vowel-less Northwest Semitic form (Phoenician & ). The word's biblical senses as a Phoenician deity and false gods generally were extended during the Protestant Reformation to denote any idols, icons of the saints, or the Catholic Church generally. In such contexts, it follows the anglicized pronunciation and usually omits any mark between its two As. In close transliteration of the Semitic name, the ayin is represented, as \"Baʿal\".\n\nIn the Northwest Semitic languages—Ugaritic, Phoenician, Hebrew, Amorite, and Aramaic—the word \"baʿal\" signified \"owner\" and, by extension, \"lord\", a \"master\", or \"husband\". \nCognates include the Akkadian \"Bēlu\" (), Amharic \"bal\" (), and Arabic \"baʿl\" (). \"Báʿal\" () and \"baʿl\" still serve as the words for \"husband\" in modern Hebrew and Arabic respectively. They also appear in some contexts concerning the ownership of things or possession of traits.\n\nThe feminine form is \"baʿalah\" (; ), meaning \"mistress\" in the sense of a female owner or lady of the house and still serving as a rare word for \"wife\".\n\nSuggestions in early modern scholarship also included comparison with the Celtic god Belenus.\n\nLike EN in Sumerian, the Akkadian \"bēlu\" and Northwest Semitic \"baʿal\" (as well as its feminine form \"baʿalah\") was used as a title of various deities in the Mesopotamian and Semitic pantheons. Only a definitive article, genitive or epithet, or context could establish which particular god was meant.\n\nBaʿal was also used as a proper name by the third millennium , when he appears in a list of deities at Abu Salabikh. Most modern scholarship asserts that this Baʿal—usually distinguished as \"The Lord\" (, \"Ha Baʿal\")—was identical with the storm and fertility god Hadad; it also appears in the form \"Baʿal Haddu\". Scholars propose that, as the cult of Hadad increased in importance, his true name came to be seen as too holy for any but the high priest to speak aloud and the alias \"Lord\" (\"Baʿal\") was used instead, as \"Bel\" was used for Marduk among the Babylonians and \"Adonai\" for Yahweh among the Israelites. A minority propose that Baʿal was a native Canaanite deity whose cult was identified with or absorbed aspects of Adad's. Regardless of their original relationship, by the 1st millennium , the two were distinct: Hadad was worshipped by the Aramaeans and Baʿal by the Phoenicians and other Canaanites.\n\nThe Phoenician Baʿal is generally identified with either El or Dagan.\n\nBaʿal is well-attested in surviving inscriptions and was popular in theophoric names throughout the Levant but he is usually mentioned along with other gods, \"his own field of action being seldom defined\". Nonetheless, Ugaritic records show him as a weather god, with particular power over lightning, wind, rain, and fertility. The dry summers of the area were explained as Baʿal's time in the underworld and his return in autumn was said to cause the storms which revived the land. Thus, the worship of Baʿal in Canaan—where he eventually supplanted El as the leader of the gods and patron of kingship—was connected to the regions' dependence on rainfall for its agriculture, unlike Egypt and Mesopotamia, which focused on irrigation from their major rivers. Anxiety about the availability of water for crops and trees increased the importance of his cult, which focused attention on his role as a rain god. He was also called upon during battle, showing that he was thought to intervene actively in the world of man, unlike the more aloof El. The Lebanese city of Baalbeck was named after Baal.\n\nThe Baʿal of Ugarit was the epithet of Hadad but as the time passed, the epithet became the god's name while Hadad became the epithet. Baʿal was usually said to be the son of Dagan, but appears as one of the sons of El in Ugaritic sources. Both Baʿal and El were associated with the bull in Ugaritic texts, as it symbolized both strength and fertility. The virgin goddess ʿAnat was his sister and sometimes credited with a child through him. He held special enmity against snakes, both on their own and as representatives of Yammu ( \"Sea\"), the Canaanite sea god and river god. He fought the Tannin (\"Tunnanu\"), the \"Twisted Serpent\" (\"Bṭn ʿqltn\"), \"Litan the Fugitive Serpent\" (\"Ltn Bṭn Brḥ\", the biblical Leviathan), and the \"Mighty One with Seven Heads\" (\"Šlyṭ D.šbʿt Rašm\"). Baʿal's conflict with Yammu is now generally regarded as the prototype of the vision recorded in the 7th chapter of the biblical Book of Daniel. As vanquisher of the sea, Baʿal was regarded by the Canaanites and Phoenicians as the patron of sailors and sea-going merchants. As vanquisher of Mot, the Canaanite death god, he was known as Baʿal Rāpiʾuma (\"Bʿl Rpu\") and regarded as the leader of the Rephaim (\"Rpum\"), the ancestral spirits, particularly those of ruling dynasties.\n\nFrom Canaan, worship of Baʿal spread to Egypt by the Middle Kingdom and throughout the Mediterranean following the waves of Phoenician colonization in the early 1st millennium . He was described with diverse epithets and, before Ugarit was rediscovered, it was supposed that these referred to distinct local gods. However, as explained by Day, the texts at Ugarit revealed that they were considered \"local manifestations of this particular deity, analogous to the local manifestations of the Virgin Mary in the Roman Catholic Church.\" In those inscriptions, he is frequently described as \"Victorious Baʿal\" (\"Aliyn\" or \"ẢlỈyn Baʿal\"), \"Mightiest one\" (\"Aliy\" or \"ʿAly\") or \"Mightiest of the Heroes\" (\"Aliy Qrdm\"), \"The Powerful One\" (\"Dmrn\"), and in his role as patron of the city \"Baʿal of Ugarit\" (\"Baʿal Ugarit\"). As Baʿal Zaphon (\"Baʿal Ṣapunu\"), he was particularly associated with his palace atop Jebel Aqra (the ancient Mount Ṣapānu and classical Mons Casius). He is also mentioned as \"Winged Baʿal\" (\"Bʿl Knp\") and \"Baʿal of the Arrows\" (\"Bʿl Ḥẓ\"). Phoenician and Aramaic inscriptions describe \"Bʿl Krntryš\", \"Baʿal of the Lebanon\" (\"Bʿl Lbnn\"), \"Baʿal of Sidon\" (\"Bʿl Ṣdn\"), \"Bʿl Ṣmd\", \"Baʿal of the Heavens\" (\"Baʿal Shamem\" or \"Shamayin\"), Baʿal ʾAddir (\"Bʿl ʾdr\"), Baʿal Hammon (\"Baʿal Ḥamon\"), \"Bʿl Mgnm\".\n\nBaʿal Hammon was worshipped in the Tyrian colony of Carthage as their supreme god. It is believed that this position developed in the 5th century  following the severing of its ties to Tyre following the 480  Battle of Himera. Like Hadad, Baʿal Hammon was a fertility god. Inscriptions about Punic deities tend to be rather uninformative, though, and he has been variously identified as a moon god and as Dagan, the grain god. Rather than the bull, Baʿal Hammon was associated with the ram and depicted with his horns. The archaeological record seems to bear out accusations in Roman sources that the Carthaginians burned their children as human sacrifices to him. He was worshipped as Baʿal Karnaim (\"Lord of the Two Horns\"), particularly at an open-air sanctuary at Jebel Bu Kornein (\"Two-Horn Hill\") across the bay from Carthage. His consort was the goddess Tanit.\n\nThe epithet Hammon is obscure. Most often, it is connected with the NW Semitic \"ḥammān\" (\"brazier\") and associated with a role as a sun god. Renan and Gibson linked it to Hammon (modern Umm el-‘Amed between Tyre in Lebanon and Acre in Israel) and Cross and Lipiński to Haman or Khamōn, the classical Mount Amanus and modern Nur Mountains, which separate northern Syria from southeastern Cilicia.\n\nBaʿal (בַּעַל) appears about 90 times in the Hebrew Scriptures in reference to various gods. The priests of the Canaanite Baʿal are mentioned numerous times, most prominently in the First Book of Kings. Many scholars believe that this describes Jezebel's attempt to introduce the worship of the Baʿal of Tyre, Melqart, to the Israelite capital Samaria in the 9th century . Against this, Day argues that Jezebel's Baʿal was more probably Baʿal Shamem, the Lord of the Heavens, a title most often applied to Hadad, who is also often titled just Ba‘al.\n\n1 Kings 18 records an account of a contest between the prophet Elijah and Jezebel's priests. Both sides offered a sacrifice to their respective gods: Ba'al failed to light his followers' sacrifice while Yahweh's heavenly fire burnt Elijah's altar to ashes, even after it had been soaked with water. The observers then followed Elijah's instructions to slay the priests of Baʿal, after which it began to rain, showing Yahweh's mastery over the weather.\n\nOther references to the priests of Baʿal describe their burning of incense in prayer and their offering of sacrifice while adorned in special vestments.\n\nThe title \"baʿal\" was a synonym in some contexts of the Hebrew \"adon\" (\"Lord\") and \"adonai\" (\"My Lord\") still used as aliases of the Lord of Israel Yahweh. According to some scholars, the early Hebrews did use the names Baʿal (\"Lord\") and Baʿali (\"My Lord\") in reference to the Lord of Israel, just as Baʿal farther north designated the Lord of Ugarit or Lebanon. This occurred both directly and as the divine element of some Hebrew theophoric names. However, according to others it is not certain that the name Baal was definitely applied to Yahweh in early Israelite history. The component Baal in proper names is mostly applied to worshippers of Baal, or descendants of the worshippers of Baal. Names including the element Baʿal presumably in reference to Yahweh include the judge Gideon (also known as Jerubaʿal,  \"The Lord Strives\"), Saul's son Eshbaʿal (\"The Lord is Great\"), and David's son Beeliada (\"The Lord Knows\"). The name Bealiah (\"The Lord is Jah\"; \"Yahweh is Baʿal\") combined the two. However John Day states that as far as the names Eshba’al, Meriba’al, and Beeliada (that is Baaliada), are concerned it is not certain whether they simply allude to the Cannanite god Ba’al, or are intended to equate Yahweh with Ba’al, or have no connection to Ba’al.\n\nIt was the program of Jezebel, in the 9th century , to introduce into Israel's capital city of Samaria her Phoenician worship of Baal as opposed to the worship of Yahweh that made the name anathema to the Israelites.\n\nBrad E. Kelle has suggested that references to cultic sexual practices in the worship of Baal, in Hosea 2, are evidence of an historical situation in which Israelites were either giving up Yahweh worship for Baal, or blending the two. Hosea's references to sexual acts being metaphors for Israelite \"apostasy\".\n\nBaʿal Berith (\"Lord of the Covenant\") was a god worshipped by the Israelites when they \"went astray\" after the death of Gideon according to the Hebrew Scriptures. The same source relates that Gideon's son Abimelech went to his mother's kin at Shechem and received 70 shekels of silver \"from the House of Baʿal Berith\" to assist in killing his 70 brothers from Gideon's other wives. An earlier passage had made Shechem the scene of Joshua's covenant between all the tribes of Israel and \"El Yahweh, our god of Israel\" and a later one describes it as the location of the \"House of El Berith\". It is thus unclear whether the false worship of the \"Baʿalim\" being decried is the worship of a new idol or the continued worship of Yahweh, but by means of rites and teachings taking him to be a mere local god within a larger pantheon. The Hebrew Scriptures record the worship of Baʿal threatening Israel from the time of the Judges until the monarchy. The Deuteronomist and the present form of Jeremiah seem to phrase the struggle as monolatry or monotheism against polytheism. However, Yahweh is firmly identified in the Hebrew Scriptures with El Elyon, whose Canaanite figure appears hostile to the cult of Baʿal even in the polytheistic accounts of Ugarit and the Phoenician cities.\n\nBaʿal Zebub (,  \"Fly Lord\") occurs in the first chapter of the Second Book of Kings as the name of the Philistine god of Ekron. In it, Ahaziah, king of Israel, is said to have consulted the priests of Baʿal Zebub as to whether he would survive the injuries from his recent fall. The prophet Elijah, incensed at this impiety, then foretold that he would die quickly, raining heavenly fire on the soldiers sent to punish him for doing so. Jewish scholars have interpreted the title of \"Lord of the Flies\" as the Hebrew way of calling Baʿal a pile of dung and his followers vermin, although others argue for a link to power over causing and curing pestilence and thus suitable for Ahaziah's question. The Septuagint renders the name as \"Baälzeboúb\" () and as \"Baʿal of Flies\" (, \"Baäl muian\"). Symmachus the Ebionite rendered it as \"Beëlzeboúl\" (), possibly reflecting its original sense. This has been proposed to have been \"B‘l Zbl\", Ugaritic for \"Lord of the Home\" or \"Lord of the Heavens\".\n\nOutside of Jewish and Christian contexts, the various forms of Baʿal were indifferently rendered in classical sources as Belus (, \"Bē̂los\"). An example is Josephus, who states that Jezebel \"built a temple to the god of the Tyrians, which they call Belus\"; this describes the Baʿal of Tyre, Melqart. In the \"interpretatio graeca\", Baʿal was usually associated with Jupiter Belus but sometimes connected with Hercules. Herrmann identifies the Demarus or Demarous mentioned by Philo Byblius as Baʿal.\n\nBaʿal Hammon, however, was identified with the Greek Cronos and the Roman Saturn (as the \"African Saturn\"). He was probably never equated with Melqart, although this assertion appears in older scholarship.\n\nBeelzebub or Beelzebul was identified by the writers of the New Testament as Satan, \"prince\" (i.e., king) of the demons.\n\nJohn Milton's 1667 epic \"Paradise Lost\" describes the fallen angels collecting around Satan, stating that, though their heavenly names had been \"blotted out and ras'd\", they would acquire new ones \"wandring ore the Earth\" as false gods. The \"Baalim\" and \"Ashtaroth\" are given as the collective names of the male and female demons (respectively) who came from between the \"bordring flood of old Euphrates\" and \"the Brook that parts Egypt from Syrian ground\". Similarly, \"Baal\" and derived epithets like \"Baalist\" were used as slurs during the English Reformation for the Catholic saints and their devotees.\n\nThe Quran mentions the contest between Jezebel's priests of Baʿal and the prophet Elijah (Elias)):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28526043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28526043", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Barbados", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Barbados\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Barbados begins with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, in 1916 as the Caribbean was among the places Bahá'ís should take the religion to. The first Bahá'í to visit came in 1927 while pioneers arrived by 1964 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in 1965. Hand of the Cause `Alí-Muhammad Varqá attended the inaugural election of the Barbados Bahá'ís National Spiritual Assembly in 1981. Since then Bahá'ís have participated in several projects for the benefit of the wider community and in 2001 various sources report up to 1.2% of the island, about 3,500 citizens are Bahá'ís though the government census only found 178 members.\n\nHubert Parris may well be the first Barbadian to encounter the Bahá'í Faith. He was a barbadian Christian minister working in the area of trade relations with the United Kingdom up to around 1899, working with Victor Branford and traveling to Ireland. In 1899 he also attended Teachers College, Columbia University, in New York. In the Summers of 1902, 1903 and 1904, Parris gave talks at Greenacre for the Monsalvat School for the Comparative Study of Religion. The talks he offered over the years were: \"The West Indian Woman\", \"How I made bricks without straw\", \"The Rochdale Co-operative Movement in England\", and \"Horace Plunkett and the economic and industrial redemption of Ireland\". At the time Greenacre hosted talks also by Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl, a scholar of the Bahá'í Faith of the time, and Sarah Farmer, founder of Greenacre, had converted to the religion in 1900. He would recollect his time there fondly more than 50 years later. In 1905 he graduated from Howard University, and was ordained as an Episcopal priest serving in various churches in the south-east of the United States across the next decade, and began to work in the medical field, then earned a doctor degree from Shaw University in North Carolina, and was licensed. From the Fall of 1915 he was visible practicing medicine in Wilmington, and continued his ministerial work, until 1920 when he resigned from the church, while continuing his medical practice. By 1924 he was no longer living in Wilmington, and was soon known as a small country doctor in Rich Square where he became known as a Bahá'í.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on April 8, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The first actions on the part of Bahá'í community towards Latin America were that of a few individuals who made trips to Mexico and South America near or before this unveiling in 1919, including Mr. and Mrs. Frankland, and Roy C. Wilhelm, and Martha Root. The sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\nHis Holiness Christ says: Travel ye to the East and to the West of the world and summon the people to the Kingdom of God.…(travel to) the Islands of the West Indies, such as Cuba, Haiti, Puerto Rico, Jamaica, the Islands of the Lesser Antilles (which includes Barbados), Bahama Islands, even the small Watling Island, have great importance…\n\nIn 1927 Leonora Armstrong was the first Bahá'í to visit and give lectures about the Bahá'í Faith in many Latin American countries including Barbados as part of her plan to compliment and complete Martha Root's unfulfilled intention of visiting all the Latin American countries for the purpose of presenting the religion to an audience.\n\nShoghi Effendi wrote a cable on May 1, 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\nAppeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by `Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\nFollowing the May 1 cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on May 19 calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada appointed the Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís in Latin American, Bahá'í communities and Local Spiritual Assemblies began to form in 1938 across the rest of Latin America.\n\nThe first Baha'i enrolled in the Bahamas, Charles Winfield Small, was also the next to visit Barbados when he did so in 1958. By the fall of 1964 Mr. D. R. Holder and Etta Woodlen were pioneers and there may have been 2 native Barbadians. By April 1965 two assemblies - a minimum of 18 people including Woodlen - were formed. However Woodlen died in June when on a return trip to the States though her will provided for a center.\n\nAs far back as 1951 the Bahá'ís had organized a regional National Assembly for the combination of Mexico, Central America and the Antilles islands. From 1966 the region was reorganized among the Bahá'ís of Leeward, Windward and Virgin Islands with its seat in Charlotte Amalie During October 1966 a trip to ten islands was planned by Lorraine Landau, a pioneer in Barbados. Among the more notable visitors was Hand of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum when she toured Caribbean Islands for five weeks in 1970. The\nfive days of Ruhiyyih Khanum's stay there was packed with activities. She met with the Governor General Sir Winston Scott who also happened to be a medical man and discussed the Faith and allied topics for over half an hour in a most cordial interview. The press and radio coverage was excellent. Prominent women listened to an informal talk given at a reception in her honor. A one-day deepening and teaching school was held at which all the Baha'is as well as their interested friends were present and Ruhiyyih Khanum also addressed a public meeting and was interviewed on a weekly program on the radio program.\n\nFrom 1972 the regional assembly was reorganized for Barbados, St. Lucia, Barbados, St. Vincent, Grenada and other Windward Islands. Hand of the Cause `Alí-Muhammad Varqá attended the inaugural election of the Barbados Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly in 1981.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\n\nIn 2005 the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 1.2% of Barbadians - some 3,500 - were Bahá'ís. However Bahá'ís report about 400 members of the religion in the community. The census reported 178 Bahá'ís.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9989934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9989934", "title": "Balatkara Gana", "text": "Balatkara Gana\n\nBalatkara Gana is an ancient Jain monastic order. It is a section of the Mula Sangh. It is often termed \"Balatkara Gana Sarasvati Gachchha\". Until the beginning of the 20th century it was present in a number of places in India. However all its seats in North India became vacant in early 20th century. It survives only at Humbaj in Karnataka, which is its ancient seat.\n\nThe Bhattaraka seat at Humcha was founded in the 8th century AD, during the reign of Jinadatta Rai, founder of the ruling dynasty of Santar. In 1048 AD, the Mahamandaleshwara Chandarayarus made a donation to a Bhattaraka of Balagara-gana at Balligame near Banavasi in present-day Karnataka. Thus, the Bhattaraka seat at Humcha (or Humbaj) may be one of the oldest of its kind. The current Bhattaraka Srimad Devendrakeerthi Bhattaraka Maharaj has supervised 31 pratishthas outside India.\n\nBalatkara Gana arrived in North India in the 13th century as attested by inscriptions at Un (Vikram 1218), Ahar (Vikram 1228) and Hoshangabad (Vikram 1271. \n\nThere exists a chronology (Pattavali) of the northern Indian tradition the early part of which was composed during the time of Bhataraka Prabhachandra II. Early part of the chronology is supported by a 13th-century inscription associated with the building of the Kirti Stambh of Chittore.\nThe disciples of Bhattaraka Prabhachandra founded several branches and sub-branches in several regions of India.\n\nPrabhachandra (1318–1368) is regarded to be the first Bhattaraka of Delhi (see Jainism in Delhi) who reigned during 1318-1388. His pupil Padmanandi (1368–1418) had three disciples.\n\nThe dates for the Bhattarakas of Delhi were computed by Dr. Jyotiprasad Jain.\n\nThere exist several pattavalis of Mula Sangh-Balatkara Gana-Saraswati Gachchha.\n\nA (1840 CE Nagaur includes Jnatis), B(1840 Chittor includes Jnatis ), C (1450CE), D(1822-1826 CE), E (1880CE, includes Jnatis).\n\nThe pattavalis give the following segments\n\n\nBecause of occasional shifting, some of the monks may have lived in different places at different times, causing some disagreements in the pattavalis.\n\nThree inscriptions describing the construction of Kirti Stambha of Chittor have been found that mention Vishalakirti-Shubhakirti-Dharmachandra thus conforming the names going back to 13th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2347873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347873", "title": "Bamar people", "text": "Bamar people\n\nThe Bamar (; ; also historically the Burmese and Burmans) are the dominant ethnic group in Myanmar. Bamar people live primarily in the Irrawaddy River basin and speak the Burmese language, which is the official language of Myanmar. Bamar customs and identity are closely intertwined with the broader Burmese culture. The Bamar people are often imprecisely called \"Burmese\", though this term in contemporary usage can refer to any citizen of Myanmar, regardless of ethnicity.Citation needed.\n\nThe Bamar speak Burmese, a Sino-Tibetan language. The Burmese-speaking people first migrated from present-day Yunnan, China to the Irrawaddy valley in the 7th century. Over the following centuries, the Burmese speakers absorbed other ethnic groups such as the Pyu and the Mon. \nA limited 2014 DNA analysis shows that Burmese people were \"typical Southeast Asian\" but \"also with Northeast Asian and Indian influences\"; and that the gene pool of the Bamar was far more diverse than other ethnic groups such as the Karen.\n\nNinth century Chinese sources indicate that Sino-Tibetan speaking tribes were present near today's Irrawaddy River. These tribes were considered ancestors of Bamar people.\n\nBurmese, is spoken by the Bamar but is also widely spoken by ethnic minorities. Its core vocabulary consists of Sino-Tibetan words, but many terms associated with Buddhism, arts, sciences, and government have derived from the Indo-European languages of Pali and English. The Rakhine, although culturally distinct from the Bamar, are ethnically related to them and speak a dialect of Burmese that includes retention of the sound, which has coalesced into the sound in standard Burmese (although it is still present in orthography). Additional dialects come from coastal areas of Tanintharyi Region (including Myeik (Beik) and Dawei (Tavoyan)) as well as inland and isolated areas, like Yaw. Other dialects are Taungyoe, Danu, and Intha in Shan State. English was introduced in the 1800s when the Bamar first came into contact with the British as a trading nation and continued to flourish under subsequent colonial rule.\n\nThe Bamar are most numerous in Myanmar, constituting the majority ethnic group. Many have settled in Europe, particularly in Great Britain. The Burmese diaspora, which is a recent phenomenon in historical terms and began at the start of World War II, has been mainly brought about by a protracted period of military rule and reflects the ethnic diversity of Myanmar.\n\nThe Anglo-Burmese following Burmese independence in 1948 began moving to the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and North America, to be followed by the Bamar themselves. It is by no means confined to the West; Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Korea, and Japan are also popular destinations. Burmese settled in Australia, New Zealand, and the UK tend to be overwhelmingly of Anglo-Burmese origins.\n\nBamar culture has been influenced by the cultures of neighbouring countries. This is manifested in its language, cuisine, music, dance and theatre. The arts, particularly literature, have historically been influenced by the local form of the religion Theravada Buddhism. In a traditional village, the monastery is the centre of cultural life. Monks are venerated and supported by the lay people. Rites of passage are also of cultural importance to the Bamar. These include \"shinbyu\" (), a novitiate ceremony for Buddhist boys, and \"nar tha\" (), an ear-piercing ceremony for girls. Burmese culture is most evident in villages where local festivals are held throughout the year, the most important being the pagoda festival. Many villages have a guardian nat, and superstition and taboos are commonplace.\n\nThe Bamar traditionally wore sarongs. Women wear a type of sarong known as \"htamain\" (), while men wear a sarong sewn into a tube, called a \"longyi\"(လုံချည်), or, more formally, a single long piece wrapped around the hips, known in Burmese as a \"paso\" (). Formal attire often consists of gold jewelry, silk scarves, and jackets. On formal occasions, men often wear cloth turbans called \"gaung baung\" () and Mandarin collared jackets called \"taikpon\" (), while women wear blouses.\n\nBoth genders wear velvet sandals called \"gadiba phanat\" (‌, also called \"Mandalay phanat\"), although leather, rubber and plastic sandals (‌, lit. Japanese shoes) are also worn. In cities and urban areas, Western dress, including T-shirts, jeans and sports shoes or trainers, has become popular, especially among the younger generation. Talismanic tattoos, earrings, and long hair tied in a knot were once common among Bamar men, but have ceased to be fashionable since after World War II; men in shorts and sporting ponytails, as well as both sexes with bleached hair, have made their appearance in Yangon and Mandalay more recently, especially in the anything-goes atmosphere of the Burmese New Year holiday known as Thingyan.\n\nWesternization mostly comes via Japan and Singapore. Bamar people of both sexes and all ages also wear \"thanaka\", especially on their faces, although the practice is largely confined to women, children and young, unmarried men. Western makeup and cosmetics have long enjoyed a popularity in urban areas. However, thanaka is not exclusively worn by the Bamar, as many other ethnic groups throughout Burma utilize this cosmetic.\n\nBamar cuisine contains many regional elements, such as stir frying techniques and curries which can be hot but lightly spiced otherwise, almost always with fish paste as well as onions, garlic, ginger, dried chili and turmeric. Rice ( \"htamin\") is the staple, although noodles ( \"hkauk swè\"), salads ( \"a thouk\"), and breads ( \"paung mont\") are also eaten. Green tea is often the beverage of choice, but tea is also traditionally pickled and eaten as a salad called \"lahpet\". The best-known dish of Bamar origin is \"mohinga\", rice noodles in a fish broth. It is available in most parts of the region, also considered as the national dish of Myanmar. Dishes from other ethnic minorities such as the Shah, Chinese, and Indian, are also consumed.\n\nTraditional music of Myanmar consists of an orchestra mainly of percussion and wind instruments but the \"saung gauk\" (), a boat-shaped harp, is often symbolic of the Bamar. Other traditional instruments include \"pattala\" (Burmese xylophone), \"walatkhok\", \"lagwin\", and \"hsaingwaing\". Modern Bamar music is typically westernized, with influences particularly from American country music. However, rap and hip-hop have also gained popularity. Traditional Bamar dancing is similar to Thai dancing. Puppetry is also a popular form of entertainment and is often performed at \"pwé\"s, which is a generic term for shows, celebrations and festivals. In urban areas, movies from both Bollywood and Hollywood have long been popular, but more recently Korean and Chinese films, especially DVDs, have become increasingly popular.\n\nBuddhist festivals and holidays are widely celebrated by the Bamar people. \"Thingyan\", the Water Festival, which marks the beginning of the Burmese New Year in April, is one such example. \"Thadingyut\", which marks the end of the Buddhist lent, is celebrated with the Festival of Lights in October. \"Kathina\" or robe offering ceremony for monks is held at the start of Lent in July and again in November.\n\nThe majority of the Bamar are Theravada Buddhists. People are expected to keep the basic Five Precepts and practise \"dāna\" \"charity\", \"sīla\" \"Buddhist ethics\" and \"vipassanā\" \"meditation\". Most villages have a monastery and often a stupa maintained and supported by the villagers. Annual pagoda festivals usually fall on a full moon, and robe offering ceremonies for bhikkhus are held both at the beginning and after the Vassa. This coincides with the monsoons, during which the uposatha is generally observed once a week.\n\nChildren were educated by monks before secular state schools came into being. A shinbyu ceremony by which young boys become novice monks for a short period is considered the most important duty of Buddhist parents. Christian missionaries had made little impact on the Bamar despite the popularity of missionary schools in cities.\n\nThe Bamar practise Buddhism along with \"nat\" worship which predated Buddhism. It involves rituals relating to a pantheon of 37 Nats or spirits designated by King Anawrahta, although many minor nats are also worshipped. In villages, many houses have outdoors altars to honor nats, called \"nat ein\" (‌), in addition to one outside the village known as \"nat sin\" (‌) often under a bo tree (\"Ficus religiosa\"). Indoors in many households, one may find a coconut called \"nat oun\" up the main post for the \"Eindwin Min Mahagiri\" (; lit. \"Indoor Lord of the Great Mountain\"), considered one of the most important of the Nats.\n\nThe term \"Bamar\" is sometimes used to refer to both the practice of Buddhism as well as the ethnic identity. Bamar Muslims, however, practice Islam and claim ethnic Bamar heritage and culture in all matters other than religion.\n\nIn the past, the Bamar typically had shorter names, usually limited to one or two syllables. However, the trend of adopting longer names (four or five for females and three for males) has become popular. Bamar names also frequently make use of Pali-derived loan words. Bamar people typically use the day of birth (traditional 8-day calendar, which includes \"Yahu\", Wednesday afternoon) as the basis for naming, although this practice is not universal. Letters from groups within the Burmese alphabet are designated to certain days, from which the Bamar choose names.\n\nThey are chosen as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "55190551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55190551", "title": "Bengali Hindus in Myanmar", "text": "Bengali Hindus in Myanmar\n\nThe history of the Bengali Hindu community dates back to the middle ages, when the Arakanese kings brought Brahmins from Bengal as astrologers and Doms as cleaners of the pagoda compounds in Arakan. After the annexation of Burmese kingdom by the British, the Bengali Hindus arrived in British Burma in various capacities. A large section came as white collared executives in the administration, while a smaller proportion came as labourers in various projects. By the 1920s, the Bengali Hindus constituted a thriving community in the urban centres like Rangoon, Mandalay, Moulmein, Bassein and Akyab. Starting with the anti-Indian movements in the late 1930s, the Bengali Hindus began to leave British Burma in hundreds. After the independence and especially the 1962 coup, large numbers of Bengali Hindus left for India.\n\nAt present, the Bengali Hindu population is concentrated in the cities of Yangon and Sittwe and in the some of the semi-urban and rural areas of Rakhine State. The estimated population quoted in various source range between 10,000 to 56,000. The Bengali Hindus are not recognized as full citizens as per the 1982 law, but are entitled to hold the ID Card for National Verification.\n\nIn Myanmar, the citizenship issue of the Rohingyas has led to identity crisis among the Bengali Hindu population. While the Rohingyas prefer to use the term Rohingya to identify themselves, the Myanmar authorities insist on using the term Bengalis for the Rohingyas. As the Rohingyas are considered as illegal Bangladeshi immigrants, the Bengali Hindus in Rakhine State shun the usage of the term Bengali to identify themselves. They prefer to identify themselves as Burmese Hindus.\n\nIn the recent times, the Bengali Hindus have started wearing small armbands to distinguish themselves from the Rohingya. The Bengali Hindu women have started wearing bindis to distinguish themselves from the Rohingyas.\n\nIn 1962, after the coup, an estimated 300,000 Indians were forced to leave Burma. The repatriates included a significant number of Bengali Hindus of East Bengal origin. The Bengali Hindu returnees were settled in four camps in Kamarhati, Barasat, Bongaon and Hasnabad, in the 24 Parganas district of West Bengal.\n\n"}
{"id": "42622745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42622745", "title": "Bugang", "text": "Bugang\n\nBugang is a Daoist ritual dance or walk, based upon the limping \"Yubu\" \"Steps of Yu\" tradition, in which a Taoist priest paces through a supernatural pattern, such as stars in the Big Dipper or numbers in the Loshu magic square. Texts from the (4th century) Shangqing School \"revelations\" contain the earliest descriptions of \"bugang\", frequently with the practitioner pacing among constellations, especially the Big Dipper's stars. When religious Daoism began during the Six Dynasties period (220-589 CE), the expression \"bugang tadou\" 步罡踏斗 \"pacing the guideline and treading on (the stars of) the Dipper\" became popular.\n\n\"Bugang\" \"pacing the stars of the Big Dipper\" combines two Chinese words, \"bu\" 步 \"step; tread; pace (off)\" and \"gang\" 罡 \"Big Dipper; (esp.) stars in the handle of the Big Dipper\", and was first recorded in the (c. 3rd century) \"Records of the Three Kingdoms\" (\"Hanyu Da Cidian\" 1990 5:334).\n\nThe variant \"bugang\" 步綱 \"pacing the guideline\", which uses a different \"gang\" word 綱 \"headrope of a fishing net; key link; guiding principle; guideline\", was first recorded in the (c. 1029) \"Yunji Qiqian\" anthology of the \"Daoist Canon\" (\"Hanyu Da Cidian\" 5:336).\n\nSeveral later Daoist scriptures on \"bugang\" write it 布剛 with variant Chinese characters, writing \"bu\" 步 \"walk\" as 布 \"distribute; spread; declare\", and \"gang\" 罡 \"Dipper\" or \"gang\" 綱 \"guideline\" as \"gang\" 剛 \"strength; firmness\". Andersen (1989:30) says that frequently the notions of \"walking the guideline, spreading out the guideline, and distributing strength are subtly blended.\"\n\nThe phrase \"bugang tadou\" 步罡踏斗 \"pacing the guideline and treading on (the stars of) the Dipper\" adds the words \"ta\" 踏 \"step on; tread; trample\" and \"dou\" 斗 \"dipper; Big Dipper\".\n\n\"Beidou\" 北斗 (lit. \"Northern Dipper) is the common Chinese name for the Big Dipper. \"Tiangang\" 天罡 and \"Tiangangxing\" 天罡星 (with \"tian\" 天 \"sky; h/Heaven\" and \"xing\" 星 \"star; heavenly body\") both mean \"Big Dipper; (esp.) handle of the Big Dipper\" – and are the second of the 108 Stars of Destiny in the \"Water Margin\".\n\nThe Tang dynasty poet Lu Guimeng (d. 881) coined the expression \"bugangtan\" 步罡壇 \"pacing the guideline (around the) altar\".\n\n\"Bugang\" is practiced in two basic forms: the Shangqing School walk along the seven stars of the Big Dipper and the Zhengyi School walk through the eight trigrams arranged in the \"Luoshu\" 洛書 magic square (Andersen 1989:17-18). In both variants of the practice, each step is accompanied by three actions coordinated with the movements of the feet: the inwardly pronounced line of incantation when the priest reaches the star or trigram in question, the visualization of a journey through heaven, and \"shoujue\" 手訣 \"hand practices\" in which the thumb of the left hand represents movement in parallel to the body of the priest. \nIndeed, the basic patterns followed in the practice of \"bugang\" are associated with the concept of the movement through heaven of the high god Taiyi, the Great One, or the Supreme Unity, and the accompanying incantations often make it clear that as the priest performs the walk, he impersonates Taiyi. A powerful theme underlying the practice is that of world-creation and the establishment of order, frequently associated with the construction of the sacred area in the initial part of a ritual. Within the liturgy, however, the characteristic specific functions of \"bugang\" are, first, to serve as elements of the purification of the ritual area, and second, to structure the movement of the high priest (\"gaogong\" 高功), as he approaches the point of the transmission of a document to heaven, and the point of his ascent in order to deliver the document to the Most High. (Andersen 2008:239-240) \nThe Daoist Lingbao School also performed the \"Yubu\" ritual (Robinet 1997:173-174).\n\nShangqing \"Supreme/Highest Clarity\" School texts, supposedly revealed to Yang Xi from 364 to 370 CE, contain the earliest extant references to \"bugang\" along the stars of the Dipper (Andersen 1989:18). Early Shangqing texts emphasize that the purpose of \"bugang\" is to achieve individual immortality through the ascent to heaven (Andersen 2008:239).\nIn the Shangqing texts, where this practice has not yet reached the great complexity that it would acquire later, the adept draws the stars of Ursa Major on a silk ribbon, and, after constructing a sacred enclosure by commanding the planets to take their places around him, he \"clothes himself\" in the stars of the Dipper and then rises into the constellation. First, he walks around the outer circle of \"dark stars,\" invoking the goddesses who live in them. Only then can he proceed to the male gods of the Dipper, making the resident god appear as he steps on each star in turn, following a strict order. Robinet (1997:145) \n\nFor instance, the \"Bu tiangang jing\" 步天綱經 \"Scripture on Walking the Celestial Mainstay\" (DZ 1316), which explains itself as the full revelation mentioned in an earlier \"excerpted and abbreviated\" text, describes the origins and practice of \"bugang\". It states than in 24 BCE, Wang Feng 王鳳, uncle of Wang Mang who overthrew the Han and founded the brief Xin dynasty, obtained a summary of \"bugang\" methods from \"practitioner of the Dao\" Liu Jing 劉京, who in turn had studied them with \"teacher in transcendence\" Lord Zhang of Handan 邯鄲張君 (Campany 2002:250). Although this \"Bu tiangang jing\" time scheme may prove to correspond to the actual history of \"bugang\", Andersen (1989:18) says this story \"also gives ample cause for suspicion.\" The emphasis on the usurpant emperor Wang Mang may well be a reflection of the \"Hanshu\" (99) story – which does not refer to any walking – that Wang Mang used the Dipper as a cosmic weapon to protect himself against his enemies. \"We find ample information in Han dynasty texts on the use of the Dipper as an exorcistic weapon, but I have found no trace of \"bugang\" in any of these accounts.\"\n\nThe \"Bu tiangang jing\" describes \"bugang\" as an ecstatic flight through the stars. \n[T]he adept is required first to pace back and forth through the stars three times and then to perform a final walk from the first to the ninth star, in all cases skipping the third star, \"Zhenren\", the Perfected, which is to be avoided, and which is instead saluted by the adept, when he is standing in the ninth star. Generally, each step is accompanied by an incantation which is pronounced by the adept standing in the star and which evokes the image of the deity of the star in question. (Andersen 1898:38) \n\nThe deity Taiyi 太一, translated as the Great One, Great Oneness, Great Monad, and Great Unity, has been viewed as the supreme god of heaven since the late Warring States period. According to Chinese mythology and astronomical tradition, Taiyi, the Emperor of Heaven, resides in the brightest star in the bowl of the \"Little Dipper\", the large, reddish Kochab or Beta Ursae Minoris (β UMi) near the northern Pole star (Andersen 1989:24).\n\nTraditional Chinese astronomy calls β UMi the \"beijier\" 北極二 \"North Pole second [star]\", and locates Ursa Minor within the \"Ziweiyuan\" 紫微垣 Purple Forbidden enclosure. Beta Ursae Minoris is described variously as the ladle by which Taiyi pours out the primordial breath and as the chariot in which he moves through the heavens. \"The underlying cosmographic concept is that of the Dipper as a pointer — and a conductor — stretching out from the pole of heaven to the belt of the celestial equator and, by its annual movement, like the outer leg of a compass, describing a circle which is the circumference of heaven\" (Andersen 1989:25). In Chinese terms, \"gang\" 綱 \"guiding rope of a net\" is the Dipper and \"ji\" 紀 \"leading thread\" is the circle, and their original meanings were semantically extended in \"gangji\" 綱紀 \"social order and law\", the norms of conduct directed by the emperor. \"Gang\" and \"Ji\" connect in the constellation \"Jiao\" 角 \"Horn\", which is one of the 28 \"xiu\" 宿 \"lunar mansions\" at which the Dipper points during the year. The \"Hanshu\" calendrical treatise calls the Dipper \"tian zhi gang\" 天之綱 \"Heaven's \"gang\"\", and associates \"ji\" 紀 (or \"ji\" 記 \"record) with the 12-year cycle of Jupiter around the sun, which is related to various calendrical sequences and cycles of time.\n\nDaoist technical vocabulary for \"bugang\" contrasts \"Tiangang\" 天綱 \"Guideline of Heaven\" with \"Diji\" 地紀 \"Sequence of Earth\", referring to the seasonal changes on earth, activated by the movements in heaven, and conceived as a spatial flow on the circumference of the earth. \"Thus it represents the terrestrial pattern to which the powers emanating from the pole of heaven are transferred by the Dipper performing its annual revolution in the sky\" (Andersen 1989:26).\n\nThe \"Feixing jiuchen yujing\" 九晨玉經 \"Nine Monarchs' Jade Scripture on Flying\" and other Shangqing revealed texts describe \"bugang\" as either walking across the stars of the Dipper as it appears in the sky or walking around the five planets. It is categorized under the term \"feibu zhi dao\" 飛步之道 \"the way of the flying walk\". The \"Bu tiangang jing\" describes the long-term results of these practices.\nIf you constantly tread on emptiness (i.e., the stars), then after one year you will avoid blame, after two years you will avoid weapons, after three years you will avoid death, and after four years you will become a terrestrial immortal. None of the myriad harmful and evil influences will dare act upon you. From then on your blessings will be countless. You cause the gods to arrive, you command the spiritual forces. You ride a chariot yoked with flying dragons. The heaven of the Supreme Pole (\"Taiji\" 太極) presents you with the fungus of immortality. The Jade Emperor (\"Yudi\" 玉帝) gives you immortal lads [to escort you]. If you practice it for two times seven years, you will become a Perfected of the heaven of Superior Purity. (DZ 1316, tr. Andersen 1989:38) \nThis \"Shangqing\" form of \"bugang\" was almost exclusively used for purposes of individual salvation, rather than used within the framework of a larger ritual context, as seen in the Zhengyi tradition.\n\nThe Zhengyi Dao \"Way of Orthodox Unity\" began during the Tang dynasty as a transformation of the earlier Tianshi Dao \"Way of the Celestial Masters\", and became prominent during the Song dynasty under Emperor Huizong and the 30th Celestial Master Zhang Jixian 張繼先 (1092-1126). The Zhengyi tradition changed the Shangqing practice of \"bugang\" from an individual walk through the stars into a liturgical walk through the \"jiugong\" 九宫 \"Nine Palaces\" with the 8 trigrams arranged around the \"Luoshu\". Zhengyi forms of \"bugang\" were incorporated into the general liturgy for purposes of exorcism and purification, an essential part of the \"zhu jinfa\" 诸禁法 \"many methods of restriction\", particularly during the initial and final parts of ceremonies.\n\nThe \"Shangqing huangshu guodu yi\" 上清黄書過度儀 \"Liturgy of Passage of the Yellow Writ of Highest Clarity\" (DZ 1294) is the earliest preserved \"Zhengyi\" text to record \"bugang\"-type dancing following the magic-square pattern. Mark Csikszentmihalyi (2008:868) says, \"This text may date from the second to fifth centuries CE, and reflects the integration of ritualized visualization, invocation, and sexual techniques.\" According to Andersen (1989:18), \"It presents a wedding ritual, or perhaps one should rather say a rite of sexual union. In any case, sexual union takes place as a part of the ritual, which also includes certain dances performed by the couple.\" This text uses the word \"nie\" 躡 \"walk on tiptoe; walk quietly; tread\" in \"nieji\" 躡紀 \"treading the sequence\" or \"nieshi\" 躡時 \"treading the [pattern of] time\" – instead of \"bugang\", which later became the standard term – describing a ritual dance in which the couple each puts one foot in opposing earthly branches and joins their other two feet in the center, then shifting to the next earthly branch, and so on until they have gone through the whole circle. \n\"Nieji\" refers specifically to the practice, performed repeatedly during the ritual and in turns by both participants, of \"toeing\" with one foot the body of the other while lying side by side. The movement starts from the heart and describes a circle in eleven steps, the man moving his left foot clockwise to an end point on the right side of the woman and the woman moving her right foot counter-clockwise to an end point on the left side of the man. In both cases it is clear from the accompanying incantation that the notion of the movement of the four seasons is involved. The practice, which is described also as a form of massage, clearly intends to establish an inner circulation in accordance with the patterns of the universe. (Andersen 1989:27). \nThis text gives a series of sexually implicit incantations for \"neidan\" \"inner circulations\" uniting the couple's \"yin\" and \"yang\", in order to reach the \"Shengmen\" 生門 \"Gate of Life\" (tr. Andersen 1989:27). The man says, \"I wish to mount the Guideline of Heaven and enter the Sequence of Earth. The four seasons and the five elements are each of themselves apposite.\" The woman says, \"I wish to lie on earth and receive heaven, uniting \"yin\" and \"yang\". The four seasons and the five elements are each of themselves apposite.\" They both say, \"The five breaths — both the dark and the yellow — adhere of their own [to my body]. They return to my five organs, which glow with light.\"\n\nThe basis of ritual dances in the \"Huangshu\" is referred to as \"Taiyi bu jiugong\" 太一步九宫, \"The walk of Taiyi through the Nine Palaces\" (8 trigrams plus center in the \"Luoshu\" magic square), which represents Taiyi travelling though the Nine Heavens. The couple creates a ritual area by \"bu\" \"distributing\" the Nine Palaces, by joining fingers or toes so as to give a total number corresponding to each position, and calling out the name and number of the palace in question. The trigrams and gates of the Nine Palaces are further associated with the \"nine\" stars of the Big Dipper, which has seven visible stars. The number of nine is reached by the addition of two \"assistant\" stars: \"Fuxing\" 輔星 (Alcor, 80 Ursae Majoris) and \"Bixing\" 弼星, an invisible star near the handle of the Dipper. These nine stars have a special Daoist nomenclature of: Tianpeng 天蓬, Tiannei 天内, Tianchong 天衝, Tianfu 天輔, Tianqin 天禽, Tianxin 天心, Tianzhu 天柱, Tianren 天任, and Tianying 天英 (Andersen 1989:34).\n\nThe \"Shangqing huangshu guodu yi\" pattern of \"walking\" on the body is paralleled by the \"Zhengyi\" liturgy of present-day south Taiwan, wherein the priest performs \"bugang\" simultaneously as a walk with his feet on the ground and a walk with his thumb on his left hand. For example, the Zeng family's secret manual says, \"With the foot one treads the Dipper, while in the hand one points to the fingers. There must be absolutely no disorderly movement. When the foot reaches the Gate of Heaven, the hand reaches the Gate of Heaven. When the foot reaches the Door of Earth, the hand reaches the Door of Earth. The secret instructions of Taoism embrace heaven and earth\" (tr. Andersen 1989:28).\n\nThe Song dynasty Zhengyi master Lu Shizhong 路時中, who founded the \"Yutang dafa\" 玉堂大法 tradition in the 1120s, explained the efficacy of \"bugang\":\nBetween heaven and earth man is the most numinous of all things. Therefore, whenever he points in his hand or walks with his feet, he is united with Perfection (\"zhen\" 真). The method of \"bugang\" arises from this. To perform \"bugang\" is to fly along the essences of heaven, to tread the numinae of earth, and to set the perfection of man in motion. Through it the Three Powers (\"Sancai\" 三才, i.e., the three cosmic planes) unite their virtues, the nine breaths are aligned, and demons and spirits spin. (\"Wushang xuanyuan santian yutang dafa\", DZ 220, tr. Andersen 1989:28) \n\nDaoists have conceived Taiyi's movements as occurring either along the stars of the Dipper or through the palaces of the eight trigrams, in both cases leading eventually to a return to the point of departure. One solution to the problem of how Taiyi returns through the Dipper involves the \"Santai\" 三台 \"Three Terraces\", three pairs of stars in Ursa Major below the Dipper, from Iota Ursae Majoris to 61 Ursae Majoris. The \"Santai\" are described as \"the staircase of heaven\" and \"the road along which Taiyi descends and ascends\". In many variants of \"bugang\", \"the priest begins by walking along the stars of the Dipper — starting out from the star closest to the pole — and ends by returning to the Gate of Heaven along the Three Terraces\" (Andersen 1989:30).\n\nThe two major forms of \"bugang\" are modelled on the two patterns of Taiyi moving through the stars or the trigrams, expressed by the priest's incantations that he is impersonating Taiyi. \"Bugang\" is categorized into two ritual functions, either serving purposes of exorcism (focusing on Taiyi's outward movement and distribution of strength) or purposes of ascent (focusing on his return to the center). \"Bugang\" 布剛 \"distribution of strength\" occurs in the \"Chunqiu yundou shu\" 春秋運斗樞describing the \"Sanhuang\" 三皇 \"Three Sovereigns\", \"They contained all vastness and walked in the centre; they opened up \"yin\" and \"yang\" and distributed strength\" (tr. Andersen 1989:30).\n\nThe \"Jiuling gang\" 九靈罡 \"Guideline of the Nine Spirits\" \"bugang\" practice has been one of the most widespread in Daoist texts since the Song dynasty, and is still practiced by \"Zhengyi\" priests under the name \"Tianhuang dou\" 天皇斗, \"Dipper of the Celestial Sovereign [i.e., Taiyi]\". The \"Jiuling gang\" is based on the Daoist celestial stem-based \"magic invisibility\" system of Qimen Dunjia \"Irregular Gate, Hidden Stem\", which the (4th century) \"Baopuzi\" \"Into Mountains: Over Streams\" chapter first mentioned in context with \"Yubu\". The \"Dunjia\" 遁甲 \"Hidden Stem\" calculates the position within the space-time structure of the \"liuding\" 六丁 (\"six \"ding\"\") \"spirits that define the place of the \"Qimen\" 奇門 \"Irregular Gate\", going through which one may obtain invisibility and thus protection from all dangers. Irregular Gate divination is associated with Eight Gates, namely the Gate of Rest, of Life, of Injury, of Closing, of Brilliance, of Death, of Fright, and Gate of Opening. The incantation begins:\nThe essential wonder of the Dipper, the twelve chronograms (\"chen\" 辰). I mount the numinous light, and the majestic martial forces are deployed. The breaths appear like floating clouds. Their seven movements correspond to heaven above. I know that the transformations have auspicious and inauspicious times. I enter the constellation of the Dipper and cross the Threshold of Heaven (\"Tianguan\" 天關, i.e., the seventh star of the Dipper). I obey the law of the six combinations and abide by \"jia\" and \"yi\" [甲乙]. (DZ 220, tr. Andersen 1989:36) \nThis is followed by the walk through the stars, accompanied by sentences enumerating of the names of the stars, with the walk starting in \"Tianying\" and ending through an exit in \"Tianpeng\". The incantation concludes:\nThe way of the Dipper is accomplished, the hard and soft (i.e., \"yang\" and \"yin\") reach their full capacity. The ten thousand evil influences are exterminated, the hundred devils destroyed. Happiness and blessing are increased and passed on to following generations. I enter the region of obscurity and live forever. (DZ 566, tr. Andersen 1989:36) \nThe Zhengyi (1201) \"Daomen tongjiao ji\" 道門通教集 \"Collected Works for All Daoists Penetrating the Teaching\" text records \"bugang\" purification of the altar at the end of the rite, following the \"three steps and nine traces\" from the \"Baopuzi\". It is compared with walking the \"Yijing\" Hexagram 63, \"Jiji\" 既濟 \"Already Fording\", which is composed of the trigrams \"li\" 離 (☲) Fire and \"kan\" 坎 (☵) Water. This hexagram comparison \"is based on the equivalence of an isolated step with an unbroken line and two juxtaposed steps with a broken line\" (Andersen 1989:43), with a bottom-center first step and top-left ninth step.\n\nDu Guangting's (891) \"Taishang huanglu zhaiyi\" 太上黃籙齋儀 \"Protocols for Yellow Register Rites of the Most High\" (DZ 507) describes using \"bugang\" during presentation of the memorial in the general liturgy. This practice originated with the Song dynasty \"Zhengyi\" tradition of the Tianxin zhengfa 天心正法 \"Orthodox Method of the Celestial Heart\", founded by Tan Zixiao.\n\nThe (1116) \"Taishang zhuguo jiumin zongzhen biyao\" 太上助国救民总真秘要 \"Secret Essentials of the Perfected Totality, of the Most High, for Assisting the Country and Saving the People\" (DZ 1227), compiled by Yuan Miaozong 元妙宗, has a section on \"bugang\" that contains Tang dynasty altar purification techniques, which are still used by \"Zhengyi\" Daoist priests. The \"Huitan gang\" 回壇罡, \"Guideline for Returning to the Altar\", for example, gives a diagram with an incantation for each star.\nThe Gate of Heaven is opened above. The wheel of the method of flying to heaven moves with the speed of thunder and lightning and advances like wind and clouds. The yellow memorial reaches upwards and penetrates to the Court of Heaven. My body returns to the Gate of Heaven, where it merges with spontaneity and unites in Perfection with the Way. The body (of the high priest) enters the Gate of Heaven below the Golden Portal. He offers three sticks of incense and after this submits the memorial. (tr. Andersen 1989:47-48) \n\nIn contemporary Daoism, the \"bugang\" \"Pacing the Dipper\" rite continues to be practiced. Poul Andersen says,\nThe forms of \"bugang\" used in present-day liturgy mostly derive from the ritual compilations of the Song dynasty. They are typically performed by the high priest alone and are described in his \"secret manual\" (\"mijue\" [秘訣]). The practice is highly valued by the present-day priesthood, and it is commonly conceived as a foundational element of Taoist ritual. A similar view is expressed in many historical texts, such as in the \"Taishang zhuguo jiumin zongzhen biyao\" ([太上助國救民總真必要] Secret Essentials of the Totality of Perfected, of the Most High, for Assisting the Country and Saving the People...), by Yuan Miaozong, who says: \"The Paces of Yu along the guideline of the Dipper, and the instructions for practices in the palm of the hand, are the great essentials of the Way, the primordial leading thread of (all other) methods.\" (2008:240) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43950067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43950067", "title": "Cottesloe Consultation", "text": "Cottesloe Consultation\n\nThe Cottesloe Consultation was a conference held from December 7–14, 1960 in Cottesloe, a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. The immediate impetus for the consultation was the international public outcry against the Sharpeville massacre that had taken place the previous March. Prior to the consultation's convening, Hendrik Verwoerd, who was Prime Minister of South Africa at the time, called the consultation \"an attempt by foreigners to meddle in the country's internal affairs\". The consultation was sponsored by the World Council of Churches (WCC) and all of the WWC member bodies in South Africa sent ten delegates to participate in the discussion. One of the delegates was German theologian Wilhelm Niesel, author of \"Die Theologie Calvins\". The consultation was organized by WCC's Robert S. Bilheimer.\n\nAt the consultation, the member bodies were urged to push the government of South Africa towards greater inclusion of black people in political office. The delegates agreed on the adoption of the Cottesloe Statement, which rejected unjust discrimination in various forms and made several specific resolutions with respect to such issues as freedom of religion, migrant work, and due process.\n\nThe boldest clause in the statement was the resolution that black residents of areas designated as \"white\" by apartheid legislation should be granted suffrage. The Dutch Reformed Church (DRC) in South Africa rejected the Cottesloe Statement as too theologically liberal, despite the fact that DRC theologians had been represented at the consultation and had agreed to the statement.\n"}
{"id": "5104141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5104141", "title": "Criticism of Judaism", "text": "Criticism of Judaism\n\nCriticism of Judaism refers to criticism of Jewish religious doctrines, texts, laws and practices. Early criticism originated in inter-faith polemics between Christianity and Judaism. Important disputations in the Middle Ages gave rise to widely publicized criticisms. Modern criticisms also reflect the inter-branch Jewish schisms between Orthodox Judaism, Conservative Judaism, and Reform Judaism.\n\nBaruch Spinoza, Mordecai Kaplan, and prominent atheists have criticized Judaism because its theology and religious texts describe a personal God who has conversations with important figures from ancient Israel (Moses, Abraham, etc.) and forms relationships and covenants with the Jewish people. Spinoza and Kaplan instead believed God is abstract, impersonal, or a force of nature. Theologian and philosopher Franz Rosenzweig suggested that the two viewpoints are both valid and are complementary within Judaism.\n\nMost branches of Judaism consider Jews to be the \"chosen people\" in the sense that they have special role to \"preserve God's revelations\" or to \"affirm our common humanity\". This attitude is reflected, for example, in the policy statement of Reform Judaism which holds that Jews have a responsibility to \"cooperate with all men in the establishment of the kingdom of God, of universal brotherhood, Justice, truth and peace on earth.\" Some secular and critics affiliated with other religions claim the concept implies favoritism or superiority, as have some Jewish critics, such as Baruch Spinoza. \nMany Jews find the concept of chosenness problematic or an anachronism, and such concerns led to the formation of Reconstructionist Judaism, whose founder, Mordecai Kaplan, rejected the concept of the Jews as the chosen people and argued that the view of the Jews as the chosen people was ethnocentric.\n\nConservative Judaism is criticized by some leaders of Orthodox Judaism for not properly following Halakha (Jewish religious law). It is also criticized by some leaders of Reform Judaism for being at odds with the principles of its young adult members on issues such as intermarriage, patrilineal descent, and the ordination of homosexuals — all issues that Conservative Judaism opposes and Reform Judaism supports. (The Conservative movement has since moved in the direction of allowing for gay rabbis and the \"celebration of same-sex commitment ceremonies.\")\n\nThe reform movement grew out of dissatisfaction with several aspects of traditional Judaism or Rabbinic Judaism, as documented in polemics and other 19th- and early-20th-century writings. Louis Jacobs, a prominent Masorti Rabbi, described the polemics between the Orthodox and the Reform movements as follows: \nDavid Einhorn, an American Reform rabbi, calls Reform Judaism a \"liberation\" of Judaism : \n\nThe criticisms of traditional Judaism included criticisms asserting that the Torah's laws are not strictly binding; criticisms asserting that many ceremonies and rituals are not necessary; criticisms asserting that Rabbinical leadership is too authoritarian; criticisms asserting that there was too much superstition; criticisms asserting that traditional Judaism leads to isolation from other communities; and criticisms asserting that traditional Judaism over-emphasized the exile.\n\nSome of these criticisms were anticipated in a much earlier time, by philosopher Uriel da Costa (1585–1640) who criticized the Rabbinic authorities and the Talmud for lack of authenticity and spirituality.\n\nPaul criticizes Jews for their failure to believe that Jesus was the Messiah (Romans 9:30–10:13) and for their view about their favored status and lack of equality with gentiles (Roman 3:27). In Romans 7–12, one criticism of Judaism made by Paul is that it is a religion based in law instead of faith. In many interpretations of this criticism made prior to the mid 20th century, Judaism was held to be fundamentally flawed by the sin of self-righteousness. The issue is complicated by differences in the versions of Judaism extant at the time. Some scholars argue that Paul's criticism of Judaism are correct, others suggest that Paul's criticism is directed at Hellenistic Judaism, the forms with which Paul was most familiar, rather than Rabbinic Judaism, which eschewed the militant line of Judaism which Paul embraced prior to his conversion. There is also the question as to whom Paul was addressing. Paul saw himself as an apostle to the Gentiles, and it is unclear as to whether the text of Romans was directed to Jewish followers of Jesus (as was Paul), to Gentiles, or to both. If adherence to Jewish law were a requirement for salvation, then salvation would be denied to Gentiles without a conversion to Judaism. Krister Stendahl argues along similar lines that according to Paul, Judaism's rejection of Jesus as a savior is what allows salvation of non-Jews, that this rejection is part of God's overall plan, and that Israel will also be saved (per Romans 11:26–27).\nSome scholars argue that the fundamental issue underlying Paul's criticism of Judaism hinges on his understanding of Judaism's relationship to Jewish law. E. P. Sanders, for example, argues that the view held by many New Testament scholars from Weber on, represent a caricature of Judaism and that this interpretation of Paul's criticism is thus flawed by the misunderstanding of the tenets of Judaism. Sanders' interpretation asserts Judaism is instead best understood as a \"covenantal nominism\", in which God's grace is given and affirmed in the covenant, to which the appropriate response is to live within the bounds established in order to preserve the relationship. James Dunn agrees with Sanders' view that Paul would not have criticized Judaism for claiming that salvation comes from adherence to the law or the performance of good works, since those are not tenets of Judaism, but argues against Sanders that Paul's criticism of Judaism represents a rebuttal of the \"xenophobic\" and ethnocentric form of Judaism to which Paul had previously belonged. Dunn argues that Paul does not see his position as a betrayal of Judaism, but rather represents development of an open Judaism. A similar argument is presented by George Smiga, who claims that criticism of Judaism found in the New Testament are best understood as varieties of religious polemic, intended as a call to conversion rather than criticism in the sense of common usage.\n\nThe idea that Judaism, and the Jewish people collectively, are responsible for the death of Jesus, often represented in the claim that \"Jews killed Jesus\", figures prominently in anti-Semitic writings. It was initially stated by Paul in the New Testament (). The Roman Catholic church formally disavowed its long complicity in anti-Semitism by issuing a proclamation in 1965 repudiating the notion that the Jewish people bore any guilt for Jesus's death.\n\nA prominent place in the Qur'anic polemic against the Jews is given to the conception of the religion of Abraham. The Qur'an presents Muslims as neither Jews nor Christians but followers of Abraham who was in a physical sense the father of the Jews and the Arabs and lived before the revelation of Torah. In order to show that the religion practiced by the Jews is not the pure religion of Abraham, the Qur'an mentions the incident of worshiping of the calf, argues that Jews do not believe in part of the revelation given to them, and that their taking of usury shows their worldliness and disobedience of God. Furthermore, the Quran claims they attribute to God what he has not revealed. According to the Qur'an, the Jews exalted a figure named Uzair as the \"son of God\" (see the Quranic statements about perceived Jewish exaltation). The character of Ezra, who was presumed to be the figure mentioned by the Qur'an (albeit with no corroborative evidence to suggest Ezra and Uzair to be the same person) became important in the works of the later Andalusian Muslim scholar Ibn Hazm, who explicitly accused Ezra of being a liar and a heretic who falsified and added interpolations into the Biblical text. In his polemic against Judaism, Ibn Hazm provided a list of what he said were chronological and geographical inaccuracies and contradictions; theological impossibilities (anthropomorphic expressions, stories of fornication and whoredom, and the attributing of sins to prophets), as well as lack of reliable transmission (tawatur) of the text. Heribert Busse writes \"The only explanation is the presumption that Muhammad, in the heat of debate, wanted to accuse the Jews of heretical doctrine on a par with the heresy of the Christian doctrine that teaches the divine nature of Jesus. In doing so, he could take advantage of the high esteem granted Ezra in Judaism.\"\n\nPhilosophical criticism of Judaism is either part of religious criticism in general, or specifically focused on aspects unique to the Jewish religion. Immanuel Kant is an example of the latter. Kant believed that Judaism fails to \"satisfy the essential criteria of [a] religion\" by requiring external obedience to moral laws, having a secular focus, and lacking a concern for immortality.\n\nKosher slaughter has historically attracted criticism from non-Jews as allegedly being inhumane and unsanitary, in part as an antisemitic canard that eating ritually slaughtered meat caused degeneration, and in part out of economic motivation to remove Jews from the meat industry. Sometimes, however, these criticisms were directed at Judaism as a religion. In 1893, animal advocates campaigning against kosher slaughter in Aberdeen attempted to link cruelty with Jewish religious practice. In the 1920s, Polish critics of kosher slaughter claimed that the practice actually had no basis in scripture. In contrast, Jewish authorities argue that the slaughter methods are based directly upon (), and that \"these laws are binding on Jews today.\"\n\nMore recently, kosher slaughter has attracted criticism from some groups concerned with animal welfare, who contend that the absence of any form of anesthesia or stunning prior to the severance of the animal's jugular vein causes unnecessary pain and suffering. Calls for the abolition of kosher slaughter have been made in 2008 by Germany's federal chamber of veterinarians, and in 2011 by the Party for Animals in the Dutch parliament. In both incidents, Jewish groups responded that the criticisms were attacks against their religion.\n\nSupporters of kosher slaughter counter that Judaism requires the practice precisely because it is considered humane. Research conducted by Temple Grandin and Joe M. Regenstein shows that, practiced correctly with proper restraint systems, kosher slaughter results in little pain and suffering, and notes that behavioral reactions to the incision made during kosher slaughter are less than those to noises such as clanging or hissing, inversion or pressure during restraint.\n\nThe Jewish practice of brit milah, or circumcision of infant males, has been criticized in both ancient and modern times as painful and cruel, or tantamount to genital mutilation due to its being conducted without the boy's consent.\n\nHellenistic culture found circumcision to be repulsive, circumcision was regarded as a physical deformity, and circumcised men were forbidden to participate in the Olympic Games. Some Hellenistic Jews practised epispasm. In the Roman Empire, circumcision was regarded as a barbaric and disgusting custom. According to the Talmud, the consul Titus Flavius Clemens was condemned to death by the Roman Senate in 95 CE for circumcising himself and converting to Judaism. The emperor Hadrian (117-138) forbade circumcision.\nPaul expressed similar sentiments about circumcision, calling it \"mutilation\" in Philippians 3. \"Watch out for those dogs, those evildoers, those mutilators of the flesh.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3865655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3865655", "title": "Datura innoxia", "text": "Datura innoxia\n\nDatura innoxia, often spelled inoxia, (sometimes called by the common names pricklyburr, recurved thorn-apple, downy thorn-apple, Indian-apple, lovache, moonflower, nacazcul, toloatzin, tolguache or toloache) is a species in the family Solanaceae. It is more rarely called sacred datura, but this name in fact refers to the related \"Datura wrightii\". It is native to S.W. United States, Central and South America, and introduced in Africa, Asia, Australia and Europe. The scientific name is often cited as \"D. innoxia\". When English botanist Philip Miller first described the species in 1768, he misspelled the Latin word \"innoxia\" (inoffensive) when naming it \"D. inoxia\". The name \"Datura meteloides\" was for some time erroneously applied to some members of the species, but that name has now been abandoned.\n\n\"Datura innoxia\" is an annual shrubby plant that typically reaches a height of 0.6 to 1.5 metres. Its stems and leaves are covered with short and soft grayish hairs, giving the whole plant a grayish appearance. It has elliptic smooth-edged leaves with pinnate venation. All parts of the plant emit a foul odor similar to rancid peanut butter when crushed or bruised, although most people find the fragrance of the flowers to be quite pleasant when they bloom at night.\n\nThe flowers are white, trumpet-shaped, long. They first grow upright, and later incline downward. It flowers from early summer until late fall.\n\nThe fruit is an egg-shaped spiny capsule, about 5 cm in diameter. It splits open when ripe, dispersing the seeds. Another means of dispersal is by the fruit spines getting caught in the fur of animals, who then carry the fruit far from the mother plant. The seeds have hibernation capabilities, and can last for years in the soil. The seeds, as well as the entirety of this plant, act as deliriants, but have a high probability of overdose.\n\nThe currently-accepted botanical name for this plant is \"Datura innoxia\", in spite of the fact that many references spell it \"Datura inoxia\". According to Tropicos, a widely-accepted authority on botanical names, the \"inoxia\" form is due to an error originally made by 18th century taxonomist Philip Miller, and since corrected. Modern authorities state that the \"inoxia\" form literally means \"not noxious\", which certainly does not seem to apply to the highly poisonous \"Datura\".\n\nOn the other hand, Miller said that the \"not noxious\" form refers to the soft spines on the fruit, which are in contrast to the sharp spines on other \"Datura\" species. (Miller refers to the ... \"oval fruit, covered with long, soft, innocent spines\" ...).\n\nAll parts of \"Datura\" plants contain dangerous levels of poison and may be fatal if ingested by humans and other animals, including livestock and pets. In some places it is prohibited to buy, sell or cultivate \"Datura\" plants.\n\nWhen cultivated, the plant is usually grown from seed, but its perennial rhizomes can be kept from freezing and planted in the spring of the following year.\n\n\"Datura innoxia\", like other \"Datura\" species, contains the highly toxic alkaloids atropine, hyoscine (scopolamine), and hyoscyamine. The Aztecs called the plant \"toloatzin\", and used it long before the Spanish conquest of Mexico for many therapeutic purposes, such as poultices for wounds where it acts as an anodyne. Although the Aztecs warned against madness and \"various and vain imaginings\", many Native Americans have used the plant as an entheogen for hallucinations and rites of passage. The alkaloids of these plants are very similar to those of mandrake, deadly nightshade, and henbane, which are also highly poisonous plants used cautiously for effective pain relief in antiquity.\n\nDatura intoxication typically produces a complete inability to differentiate reality from fantasy (delirium, as contrasted to hallucination); hyperthermia; tachycardia; bizarre, and possibly violent behavior; and severe mydriasis with resultant painful photophobia that can last several days. Pronounced amnesia is another commonly reported effect. There can easily be a 5:1 variation in toxins from plant to plant, and a given plant's toxicity depends on its age, where it is growing, and local weather conditions. These wide variations make \"Datura\" exceptionally hazardous to use as a drug. In traditional cultures, users needed to have a great deal of experience and detailed plant knowledge so that no harm resulted from using it. Such knowledge is not widely available in modern cultures, so many unfortunate incidents result from ingesting \"Datura\". In the 1990s and 2000s, the United States media contained stories of adolescents and young adults dying or becoming seriously ill from intentionally ingesting \"Datura\".\n\nIt has also been planted throughout the world as an ornamental plant for its attractive large leaves, large white flowers, and distinctive thorny fruit. However, the plant is now considered an invasive species in several locations. For example, because of the similarity of its life cycle to that of cotton, it is a pest in cotton fields. It is also a potential seed contaminant.\n\n\"Datura innoxia\" is quite similar to \"D. metel\", to the point of being confused with it in early scientific literature. \"D. metel\" is a closely related Old World plant for which similar effects were described by Avicenna in eleventh century Persia. The closely related \"D. stramonium\" differs in having smaller flowers and tooth-edged leaves, and \"D. wrightii\" in having wider, 5-toothed (instead of 10-toothed) flowers. \"D. innoxia\" differs from \"D. stramonium\", \"D. metel\" & \"D. fastuosa\" in having about 7 to 10 secondary veins on either side of the midrib of the leaf which anastomose by arches at about 1 to 3 mm. from the margin. No anastomosis of the secondary veins are seen in the other 4 major species of \"Datura\".\n"}
{"id": "5597549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5597549", "title": "Enclosed religious orders", "text": "Enclosed religious orders\n\nEnclosed religious orders of the Christian churches have solemn vows with a strict separation from the affairs of the external world. The term \"cloistered\" is synonymous with \"enclosed\". In the Catholic Church enclosure is regulated by the code of canon law, either the Latin code or the Oriental code, and also by subsidiary legislation. Enforced in the past with a largely uniform severity, at least in the case of women, it is now practised with a wider variety of custom according to the nature and charism of the community in question.\n\nThe stated purpose for such enclosure is to prevent distraction from prayer and the religious life. Depending upon the reason and the length of time, the proper authority (usually the superior gets approval from the local bishop or the Holy See) can allow enclosed men or women to leave the enclosure \"for a grave cause and with the consent of the superior\". In the Catholic Church, this matter is regulated within the framework of canon law and of the particular statutes approved by the Holy See.\n\nEnclosed religious orders of men include monks following the Rule of Saint Benedict, namely the Benedictines, the Cistercians, and the Trappists Order, but also monks of the Carthusians, Hieronymites monks, and some branches of Carmelites, along with members of the Monastic Family of Bethlehem, while enclosed religious orders of women include Canonesses Regular, nuns belonging to the Benedictine, Cistercian, Trappist and the Carthusian Orders, along with nuns of the second order of each of the mendicant orders, including: the Poor Clares, the Colettine Poor Clares, the Capuchin Poor Clares, the Dominicans, Carmelites, Servites, Augustinians, Minims, together with the Conceptionist nuns, the Visitandine nuns, Ursulines nuns (as distinct from \"federated Ursulines\" of the Company of St. Ursula) and women members of the Monastic Family of Bethlehem.\n\nThe English word monk most properly refers to men in monastic life, while the term friar more properly refers to mendicants active in the broader world (like Franciscans, Dominicans and Augustinians), though not all monasteries require strict enclosure. Benedictine monks, for instance, have often staffed parishes and been allowed to leave monastery confines.\n\nAlthough the English word nun is often used to describe all Christian women who have joined religious institutes, strictly speaking, women are referred to as nuns only when they live in papal enclosure; otherwise, they are religious sisters. The distinctions between the Christian terms monk, nun, friar, Brother, and Sister are sometimes easily blurred because some orders (such as the Dominicans or Augustinians) include nuns who are enclosed, who are usually grouped as the Second Order of that movement, and Religious Sisters who work in the broader world, who form a part of its Third Order.\n\nIn the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, once a man or woman has made solemn, perpetual religious vows, the release from these monastic vows has to be approved by the ecclesiastical authorities. Normally there is a transitional period, called exclaustration, in which the person looks to establish a new life and determine if this is what he or she is truly called to do. This usually lasts up to six years under the current Code of Canon Law. After this period the appropriate authority, generally the Holy See, determines that the wish to leave this life is valid and grants the former monk or nun release from their vows.\n\nLutheran and Anglican religious orders have different procedures for the release from perpetual vows.\n\nContemplative orders prioritise worship and prayer over economic or outreach activity. They exist in the Roman Catholic, Anglican and Eastern Orthodox\ntraditions as well as in Buddhist settings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23733822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23733822", "title": "Gods in the Sky", "text": "Gods in the Sky\n\nGods in the Sky was a three-part British television series on Channel 4, covering astronomical religion in early civilisations. It is presented by the historian of science Allan Chapman. The series was filmed in Britain, Egypt, Greece, and Italy.\n\nThere is a book of the same name to accompany the series.\n"}
{"id": "22748167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22748167", "title": "Goshala", "text": "Goshala\n\nGaushalas or Goshalas are protective shelters for cows in India. Goshalas focus on treating cows well, because of their religious significance in Hinduism and consequent cultural sensitivity towards their welfare.\n\nGoshala, a Sanskrit word (\"Go\" means cow and \"Shala\" means a shelter place: Go + Shala = shelter for cows), means the abode or sanctuary for cows, calves and oxen. Apart from providing sanctuary, the Goshala also rescues the animals destined for illegal slaughter.\n\nIndia's first goshala is thought to have been established in Rewari by Rao Yudhishter Singh Yadav. There are now goshalas all over India.\n\nThe first \"Gaurakshini sabha\" (cow protection society) was established in the Punjab in 1882. The movement spread rapidly all over North India and to Bengal, Bombay, Madras presidencies and other central provinces. The organization rescued wandering cows and reclaimed them to groom them in places called gaushalas. Charitable networks developed all through North India to collect rice from individuals, pool the contributions, and re-sell them to fund the \"gaushalas\". Signatures, up to 350,000 in some places, were collected to demand a ban on cow sacrifice. Between 1880 and 1893, hundreds of \"gaushalas\" were opened.\n\nThe UK's only Goshala is \"New Gokul\", located at the Hare Krishna temple in Bhaktivedanta Manor.\n\nThe USA's first Goshala started at Gita Nagari Farm and Sanctuary, located in Port Royal, Pennsylvania.\nAnother major Goshala is operating in Florida under the name International Society for Cow Protection (ISCOWP).\n\nGoshala in Arizona:\nIt was established on April 7, 2010 in Maricopa, and later relocated in San Tan Valley, since February 1, 2012.;\n\nBetween 2014 and 2016 the Indian government spent 5.8 billion rupees (US$87 million) on cow shelters.\n\nTo prevent unproductive cows being sent to the abattoir, the government started the Rashtriya Gokul Mission in mid-2014, a national program that involves constructing havens for retired cows. Proceeds from the animals’ bodily waste are intended to pay for their upkeep.\nIn May 2016 the Indian national government held an inaugural national conference on goshalas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2472612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472612", "title": "Gurdwara Nanak Mata Sahib", "text": "Gurdwara Nanak Mata Sahib\n\nGurdwara Sri Nanak Mata Sahib is a village situated at Nanakmatta, between Khatima and Sitarganj on the Khatima-Panipat Road. It is located 18 kilometres from Khatema and 12 kilometres from Sitarganj in the district of Udham Singh Nagar.\n\nA number of educational institutions are run here, including the Guru Nanak Balika Degree College, which is affiliated with Kumaon University, and the Guru Nanak Balika Degree Inter College and the Guru Nanak Inter College, both affiliated with the Uttar Pradesh Education Board. Guru Nanak Primary School is run for boys and girls up to the fifth class. These colleges have about 500 students and hostel accommodations are also provided. Guru Nanak Academy, affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education, is also run. It has 800 students and also provides hostel accommodations.\n"}
{"id": "3085092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3085092", "title": "Hermann Jacobi", "text": "Hermann Jacobi\n\nHermann Georg Jacobi (11 February 1850 – 19 October 1937) was an eminent German Indologist.\n\nJacobi was born in Köln (Cologne) on 11 February 1850. He was educated in the gymnasium of Cologne and then went to the University of Berlin, where initially he studied mathematics, but later, probably under the influence of Albrecht Weber, switched to Sanskrit and comparative linguistics, which he studied under Weber and Johann Gildemeister. He obtained his doctorate from the University of Bonn. The subject of his thesis, written in 1872, was the origin of the term \"hora\" in Indian astrology.\n\nJacobi was able to visit London for a year, 1872-1873, where he examined the Indian manuscripts available there. The next year, with Georg Buehler, he visited Rajasthan, India, where manuscripts were being collected. At Jaisalmer Library, he came across Jain Manuscripts, which were of abiding interest to him for the rest of his life. He later edited and translated many of them, both into German and English, including those for Max Mueller's Sacred Books of the East.\n\nIn 1875, he became a docent in Sanskrit at Bonn; from 1876-85 was professor extraordinarius of Sanskrit and Comparative Philology at Münster, Westphalia; in 1885 was made professor ordinarius of Sanskrit at Kiel; and in 1889 was appointed professor of Sanskrit at Bonn. He served as professor in Bonn until his retirement in 1922. After his retirement, Jacobi remained active, lecturing and writing till his death in 1937.\n\nApart from Jaina studies, Jacobi was interested in Indian mathematics, astrology and the natural sciences, and using astronomical information available in the Vedas, he tried to establish the date of their composition. Like Alexander Cunningham before him he tried to systematise how, from the evidence available in inscriptions, a true local time could be arrived at.\n\nJacobi's studies in astronomy have regained importance today in the context of the Out of India theory, because his calculations led him to believe that the hymns of the Rigveda were to be dated as early as 4500 B.C. Thus he is the only renowned Western Indologist whose research supports the claim of the proponents of the theory that the Vedas are to be dated back much earlier than the first half of the second millennium B.C. According to mainstream Indology, the Indo-Aryan Migration took place during this period of time and the Vedas were only composed after the migration. When Jacobi published his views in an article on the origin of Vedic culture in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society (1908), he therefore triggered off a major controversy in Indology.\n\nIn his later life, Jacobi interested himself in Poetry, Epics and Philosophy, particularly the school of Nyaya-Vaisheshika.\nIt is said that Jacobi was greatly influenced by Jain Philosophy and wished to be a Jain in his next life.\n\nAmong the honours he received were a doctorate from the University of Calcutta where he had gone in the winter of 1913-14 to lecture on poetics, while the Jain community conferred the title Jain Darshan Divakar — Sun of the Jain doctrine — upon him.\n\n"}
{"id": "44786977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44786977", "title": "International Buddhist Confederation", "text": "International Buddhist Confederation\n\nInternational Buddhist Confederation is the biggest religious Buddhist confederation, based in Delhi, India. The architect of the International Buddhist Confederation is Lama Lobzang. This confederation is named as the first organization which unites Buddhists from the whole world.\n\n"}
{"id": "7756828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7756828", "title": "Islam in Burundi", "text": "Islam in Burundi\n\nIslam is a minority religion in Burundi where approximately 90 percent of the national population are followers of Christianity. Between 2–5 percent of the population identifies as Muslim, according to a 2010 estimate by the United States Department of State. The Pew Research Centre estimated in 2010 that there were 230,000 Muslims in Burundi, equivalent to 2.8 percent of Burundi's 8.4 million inhabitants.\n\nIslam first arrived in Burundi from East African coast as part of the Arab slave trade in the late 19th century. The Arabs were prevented from entering the Kingdom of Burundi by a successful campaign of resistance led by \"mwami\" (king) Mwezi IV Gisabo. However, they did establish settlements at Ujiji and Uvira close to the country's current borders. The number of Muslims in Burundi increased under German colonial rule (1894–1916) and the German administration favoured the use of Kiswahili which was widely associated with the country's Muslims. By the outbreak of World War I, the capital Bujumbura (then Usumbura) was a majority Muslim city. The religion declined under Belgian colonial rule (1916–62) as a result of the spread of Catholicism and the migration of non-Muslim Burundians to the cities.\n\nToday the Muslim population is strongly urbanised and focused in the cities of Bujumbura, especially in the communes of Buyenzi and Bwiza, as well as Gitega, Rumonge, Nyanza, Muyinga, and Makamba. The great majority are Sunni while a small minority are Shia and Ibadi. Most are Swahili speakers although they may speak other national languages. A significant proportion of the Muslim community are recent immigrants to the country from West Africa, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Middle East, and Pakistan. Native Burundian Muslims belong to both of the country's major ethnic groups (Hutu and Tutsi) and successfully managed to avoid become involved in the Burundian genocides and ethnic violence since independence.\n\nThe Republic of Burundi is officially secular but several Muslim festivals, including Eid ul-Fitr and Eid al-Adha, are celebrated as national holidays alongside Christian observances. Despite being only a small proportion of the national population, Muslims are represented in senior positions in Burundian politics and society, especially since the end of the Burundian Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52949", "title": "Israelites", "text": "Israelites\n\nThe Israelites (; \"Bnei Yisra'el\") were a confederation of Iron Age Semitic-speaking tribes of the ancient Near East, who inhabited a part of Canaan during the tribal and monarchic periods. According to the religious narrative of the Hebrew Bible, the Israelites' origin is traced back to the Biblical patriarchs and matriarchs Abraham and his wife Sarah, through their son Isaac and his wife Rebecca, and their son Jacob who was later called Israel, whence they derive their name, with his wives Leah and Rachel and the handmaids Zilpa and Bilhah.\n\nModern archaeology has largely discarded the historicity of the religious narrative, with it being reframed as constituting an inspiring national myth narrative. The Israelites and their culture, according to the modern archaeological account, did not overtake the region by force, but instead branched out of the indigenous Canaanite peoples that long inhabited the Southern Levant, Syria, ancient Israel, and the Transjordan region through the development of a distinct monolatristic—later cementing as monotheistic—religion centered on Yahweh, one of the Ancient Canaanite deities. The outgrowth of Yahweh-centric belief, along with a number of cultic practices, gradually gave rise to a distinct Israelite ethnic group, setting them apart from other Canaanites.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible the term \"Israelites\" is used interchangeably with the term \"Twelve Tribes of Israel\". Although related, the terms Hebrews, Israelites, and Jews are not interchangeable in all instances. \"Israelites\" (\"Yisraelim\") refers specifically to the direct descendants of any of the sons of the patriarch Jacob (later called Israel), and his descendants as a people are also collectively called \"Israel\", including converts to their faith in worship of the god of Israel, Yahweh. \"Hebrews\" (\"ʿIvrim\"), on the contrary, is used to denote the Israelites' immediate forebears who dwelt in the land of Canaan, the Israelites themselves, and the Israelites' ancient and modern descendants (including Jews and Samaritans). \"Jews\" (\"Yehudim\") is used to denote the descendants of the Israelites who coalesced when the Tribe of Judah absorbed the remnants of various other Israelite tribes. Thus, for instance, Abraham was a Hebrew but he was not technically an Israelite nor a Jew, Jacob was both a Hebrew and the first Israelite but not a Jew, while David (as a member of the Tribe of Judah) was all three, a Hebrew, an Israelite, and a Judahite (\"Yehudi\", Jew). A Samaritan, on the contrary, while being both a Hebrew and an Israelite, is not a Jew.\n\nDuring the period of the divided monarchy \"Israelites\" was only used to refer to the inhabitants of the northern Kingdom of Israel, and it is only extended to cover the people of the southern Kingdom of Judah in post-exilic usage.\n\nThe Israelites are the ethnic stock from which modern Jews and Samaritans originally trace their ancestry. Modern Jews are named after and also descended from the southern Israelite Kingdom of Judah, particularly the tribes of Judah, Benjamin and partially Levi.\n\nFinally, in Judaism, the term \"Israelite\" is, broadly speaking, used to refer to a lay member of the Jewish ethnoreligious group, as opposed to the priestly orders of Kohanim and Levites. In texts of Jewish law such as the Mishnah and Gemara, the term יהודי (\"Yehudi\"), meaning Jew, is rarely used, and instead the ethnonym ישראלי (\"Yisraeli\"), or Israelite, is widely used to refer to Jews. Samaritans commonly refer to themselves and to Jews collectively as Israelites, and they describe themselves as the Israelite Samaritans.\n\nThe term \"Israelite\" is the English name for the descendants of the biblical patriarch Jacob in ancient times, which is derived from the Greek Ισραηλίτες, which was used to translate the Biblical Hebrew term \"b'nei yisrael\", יִשְׂרָאֵל as either \"sons of Israel\" or \"children of Israel\".\n\nThe name \"Israel\" first appears in the Hebrew Bible in . It refers to the renaming of Jacob, who, according to the Bible, wrestled with an angel, who gave him a blessing and renamed him \"Israel\" because he had \"striven with God and with men, and have prevailed\". The Hebrew Bible etymologizes the name as from \"yisra\" \"to prevail over\" or \"to struggle/wrestle with\", and \"el\", \"God, the divine\".\n\nThe name \"Israel\" first appears in non-biblical sources c. 1209 BCE, in an inscription of the Egyptian pharaoh Merneptah. The inscription is very brief and says simply: \"Israel is laid waste and his seed is not\" (see below). The inscription refers to a people, not to an individual or a nation-state.\n\nIn modern Hebrew, \"b'nei yisrael\" (\"children of Israel\") can denote the Jewish people at any time in history; it is typically used to emphasize Jewish ethnic identity. From the period of the Mishna (but probably used before that period) the term \"Yisrael\" (\"an Israel\") acquired an additional narrower meaning of Jews of legitimate birth other than Levites and Aaronite priests (\"kohanim\"). In modern Hebrew this contrasts with the term \"Yisraeli\" (English \"Israeli\"), a citizen of the modern State of Israel, regardless of religion or ethnicity.\n\nThe term \"Hebrew\" has Eber as an eponymous ancestor. It is used synonymously with \"Israelites\", or as an ethnolinguistic term for historical speakers of the Hebrew language in general.\n\nThe Greek term \"Ioudaioi\" (Jews) was an exonym originally referring to members of the Tribe of Judah, which formed the nucleus of the kingdom of Judah, and was later adopted as a self-designation by people in the diaspora who identified themselves as loyal to the God of Israel and the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nThe Samaritans, who claim descent from the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh (plus Levi through Aaron for kohens), are named after the Israelite Kingdom of Samaria, but until modern times many Jewish authorities contested their claimed lineage, deeming them to have been conquered foreigners who were settled in the Land of Israel by the Assyrians, as was the typical Assyrian policy to obliterate national identities. Today, Jews and Samaritans both recognize each other as communities with an authentic Israelite origin.\n\nThe terms \"Jews\" and \"Samaritans\" largely replaced the title \"Children of Israel\" as the commonly used ethnonym for each respective community.\n\nSeveral theories exist proposing the origins of the Israelites in raiding groups, infiltrating nomads or emerging from indigenous Canaanites driven from the wealthier urban areas by poverty to seek their fortunes in the highland. Various, ethnically distinct groups of itinerant nomads such as the Habiru and Shasu recorded in Egyptian texts as active in Edom and Canaan could have been related to the later Israelites, which does not exclude the possibility that the majority may have had their origins in Canaan proper. The name Yahweh, the god of the later Israelites, may indicate connections with the region of Mount Seir in Edom.\n\nThe prevailing academic opinion today is that the Israelites were a mixture of peoples predominantly indigenous to Canaan, although an Egyptian matrix of peoples may also have played a role in their ethnogenesis, with an ethnic composition similar to that in Ammon, Edom and Moab, and including Hapiru and Šośu. The defining feature which marked them off from the surrounding societies was a staunch egalitarian organisation focused on Yahweh worship, rather than mere kinship.\n\nThe language of the Canaanites may perhaps be best described as an \"archaic form of Hebrew, standing in much the same relationship to the Hebrew of the Old Testament as does the language of Chaucer to modern English.\" The Canaanites were also the first people, as far as is known, to have used an alphabet.\n\nThe name Israel first appears c. 1209 BCE, at the end of the Late Bronze Age and the very beginning of the period archaeologists and historians call Iron Age I, on the Merneptah Stele raised by the Egyptian Pharaoh Merneptah. The inscription is very brief:\nAs distinct from the cities named (Ashkelon, Gezer, Yenoam) which are written with a toponymic marker, Israel is written hieroglyphically with a demonymic determinative indicating that the reference is to a human group, variously located in central Palestine or the highlands of Samaria.\n\nOver the next two hundred years (the period of Iron Age I) the number of highland villages increased from 25 to over 300 and the settled population doubled to 40,000. By the 10th century BCE a rudimentary state had emerged in the north-central highlands, and in the 9th century this became a kingdom. Settlement in the southern highlands was minimal from the 12th through the 10th centuries BCE, but a state began to emerge there in the 9th century, and from 850 BCE onwards a series of inscriptions are evidence of a kingdom which its neighbours refer to as the \"House of David.\"\n\nAfter the destruction of the Israelite kingdoms of Samaria and Judah in 720 and 586 BCE respectively, the concepts of Jew and Samaritan gradually replaced Judahite and Israelite. When the Jews returned from the Babylonian captivity, the Hasmonean kingdom was established in present-day Israel, consisting of three regions which were Judea, Samaria, and the Galilee. In the pre-exilic First Temple Period the political power of Judea was concentrated within the tribe of Judah, Samaria was dominated by the tribe of Ephraim and the House of Joseph, while the Galilee was associated with the tribe of Naphtali, the most eminent tribe of northern Israel. At the time of the Kingdom of Samaria, the Galilee was populated by northern tribes of Israel, but following the Babylonian exile the region became Jewish. During the Second Temple period relations between the Jews and Samaritans remained tense. In 120 BCE the Hasmonean king Yohanan Hyrcanos I destroyed the Samaritan temple on Mount Gerizim, due to the resentment between the two groups over a disagreement of whether Mount Moriah in Jerusalem or Mount Gerizim in Shechem was the actual site of the Aqedah, and the chosen place for the Holy Temple, a source of contention that had been growing since the two houses of the former united monarchy first split asunder in 930 BCE and which had finally exploded into warfare. 190 years after the destruction of the Samaritan Temple and the surrounding area of Shechem, the Roman general and future emperor Vespasian launched a military campaign to crush the Jewish revolt of 66 CE, which resulted in the destruction of the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem in 70 CE by his son Titus, and the subsequent exile of Jews from Judea and the Galilee in 135 CE following the Bar Kochba revolt.\n\nThe Israelite story begins with some of the culture heroes of the Jewish people, the Patriarchs. The Torah traces the Israelites to the patriarch Jacob, grandson of Abraham, who was renamed Israel after a mysterious incident in which he wrestles all night with God or an angel. Jacob's twelve sons (in order of birth), Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zebulun, Joseph and Benjamin, become the ancestors of twelve tribes, with the exception of Joseph, whose two sons Mannasseh and Ephraim, who were adopted by Jacob, become tribal eponyms ().\n\nThe mothers of Jacob's sons are:\n\nJacob and his sons are forced by famine to go down into Egypt, although Joseph was already there, as he had been sold into slavery while young. When they arrive they and their families are 70 in number, but within four generations they have increased to 600,000 men of fighting age, and the Pharaoh of Egypt, alarmed, first enslaves them and then orders the death of all male Hebrew children. A woman from the tribe of Levi hides her child, places him in a woven basket, and sends him down the Nile river. He is named Mosheh, or Moses, by the Egyptians who find him. Being a Hebrew baby, they award a Hebrew woman the task of raising him, the mother of Moses volunteers, and the child and his mother are reunited.\n\nAt the age of forty Moses kills an Egyptian, after he sees him beating a Hebrew to death, and escapes as a fugitive into the Sinai desert, where he is taken in by the Midianites and marries Zipporah, the daughter of the Midianite priest Jethro. When he is eighty years old, Moses is tending a herd of sheep in solitude on Mount Sinai when he sees a desert shrub that is burning but is not consumed. The God of Israel calls to Moses from the fire and reveals his name, Yahweh (from the Hebrew root word 'HWH' meaning to exist), and tells Moses that he is being sent to Pharaoh to bring the people of Israel out of Egypt.\n\nYahweh tells Moses that if Pharaoh refuses to let the Hebrews go to say to Pharaoh \"Thus says Yahweh: Israel is my son, my first-born and I have said to you: Let my son go, that he may serve me, and you have refused to let him go. Behold, I will slay your son, your first-born\". Moses returns to Egypt and tells Pharaoh that he must let the Hebrew slaves go free. Pharaoh refuses and Yahweh strikes the Egyptians with a series of horrific plagues, wonders, and catastrophes, after which Pharaoh relents and banishes the Hebrews from Egypt. Moses leads the Israelites out of bondage toward the Red Sea, but Pharaoh changes his mind and arises to massacre the fleeing Hebrews. Pharaoh finds them by the sea shore and attempts to drive them into the ocean with his chariots and drown them.\n\nYahweh causes the Red Sea to part and the Hebrews pass through on dry land into the Sinai. After the Israelites escape from the midst of the sea, Yahweh causes the ocean to close back in on the pursuing Egyptian army, drowning them to death. In the desert Yahweh feeds them with manna that accumulates on the ground with the morning dew. They are led by a column of cloud, which ignites at night and becomes a pillar of fire to illuminate the way, southward through the desert until they come to Mount Sinai. The twelve tribes of Israel encamp around the mountain, and on the third day Mount Sinai begins to smolder, then catches fire, and Yahweh speaks the Ten Commandments from the midst of the fire to all the Israelites, from the top of the mountain.\n\nMoses ascends biblical Mount Sinai and fasts for forty days while he writes down the Torah as Yahweh dictates, beginning with Bereshith and the creation of the universe and earth. He is shown the design of the Mishkan and the Ark of the Covenant, which Bezalel is given the task of building. Moses descends from the mountain forty days later with the Sefer Torah he wrote, and with two rectangular lapis lazuli tablets, into which Yahweh had carved the Ten Commandments in Paleo–Hebrew. In his absence, Aaron has constructed an image of Yahweh, depicting him as a young Golden Calf, and has presented it to the Israelites, declaring \"Behold O Israel, this is your god who brought you out of the land of Egypt\". Moses smashes the two tablets and grinds the golden calf into dust, then throws the dust into a stream of water flowing out of Mount Sinai, and forces the Israelites to drink from it.\nMoses ascends Mount Sinai for a second time and Yahweh passes before him and says: 'Yahweh, Yahweh, a god of compassion, and showing favor, slow to anger, and great in kindness and in truth, who shows kindness to the thousandth generation, forgiving wrongdoing and injustice and wickedness, but will by no means clear the guilty, causing the consequences of the parent's wrongdoing to befall their children, and their children's children, to the third and fourth generation' Moses then fasts for another forty days while Yahweh carves the Ten Commandments into a second set of stone tablets. After the tablets are completed, light emanates from the face of Moses for the rest of his life, causing him to wear a veil so he does not frighten people.\n\nMoses descends Mount Sinai and the Israelites agree to be the chosen people of Yahweh and follow all the laws of the Torah. Moses prophesies if they forsake the Torah, Yahweh will exile them for the total number of years they did not observe the shmita. Bezael constructs the Ark of the Covenant and the Mishkan, where the presence of Yahweh dwells on earth in the Holy of Holies, above the Ark of the Covenant, which houses the Ten Commandments. Moses sends spies to scout out the Land of Canaan, and the Israelites are commanded to go up and conquer the land, but they refuse, due to their fear of warfare and violence. In response, Yahweh condemns the entire generation, including Moses, who is condemned for striking the rock at Meribah, to exile and death in the Sinai desert.\n\nBefore Moses dies he gives a speech to the Israelites where he paraphrases a summary of the mizwoth given to them by Yahweh, and recites a prophetic song called the Ha'azinu. Moses prophesies that if the Israelites disobey the Torah, Yahweh will cause a global exile in addition to the minor one prophesied earlier at Mount Sinai, but at the end of days Yahweh will gather them back to Israel from among the nations when they turn back to the Torah with zeal. The events of the Israelite exodus and their sojourn in the Sinai are memorialized in the Jewish and Samaritan festivals of Passover and Sukkoth, and the giving of the Torah in the Jewish celebration of Shavuoth.\n\nForty years after the Exodus, following the death of the generation of Moses, a new generation, led by Joshua, enters Canaan and takes possession of the land in accordance with the promise made to Abraham by Yahweh. Land is allocated to the tribes by lottery. Eventually the Israelites ask for a king, and Yahweh gives them Saul. David, the youngest (divinely favored) son of Jesse of Bethlehem would succeed Saul. Under David the Israelites establish the united monarchy, and under David's son Solomon they construct the Holy Temple in Jerusalem, using the 400-year-old materials of the Mishkan, where Yahweh continues to tabernacle himself among them. On the death of Solomon and reign of his son, Rehoboam, the kingdom is divided in two.\n\nThe kings of the northern Kingdom of Samaria are uniformly bad, permitting the worship of other gods and failing to enforce the worship of Yahweh alone, and so Yahweh eventually allows them to be conquered and dispersed among the peoples of the earth; and strangers rule over their remnant in the northern land. In Judah some kings are good and enforce the worship of Yahweh alone, but many are bad and permit other gods, even in the Holy Temple itself, and at length Yahweh allows Judah to fall to her enemies, the people taken into captivity in Babylon, the land left empty and desolate, and the Holy Temple itself destroyed.\n\nYet despite these events Yahweh does not forget his people, but sends Cyrus, king of Persia to deliver them from bondage. The Israelites are allowed to return to Judah and Benjamin, the Holy Temple is rebuilt, the priestly orders restored, and the service of sacrifice resumed. Through the offices of the sage Ezra, Israel is constituted as a holy nation, bound by the Torah and holding itself apart from all other peoples.\n\nAccording to the bible Abraham came from Ur of the Chaldeans and the Israelites are descended from the Chaldaeans.\nChaldea was a region of ancient Babylonia in what is now southeastern Iraq, the Chaldeans were a group of people who spoke Semitic language related to Aramic.\n\nThe study of Al-Zahery suggests the eastern side of fertile crescent as the homeland of the Y-chromosome haplogroup J, furthermore J(xM172) seems to have had its center in Iraq.\n\nIn 2000, M. Hammer, et al. conducted a study on 1371 men and definitively established that part of the paternal gene pool of Jewish communities in Europe, North Africa and Middle East came from a common Middle East ancestral population.\nIn another study (Nebel) noted; \"In comparison with data available from other relevant populations in the region, Jews and Samaritans were found to be much more closely related to groups in the north of the Fertile Crescent (Kurds, Turks, Assyrians and Armenians) and even Persians than to their Arab neighbors, whose last common ancestry with the Northern Fertile Crescent people is from the Neolithic period.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4479594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4479594", "title": "Jindai moji", "text": "Jindai moji\n\nJindai moji or Kamiyo moji (Japanese: “characters of the Age of the Gods”) are characters said to have been used in ancient Japan. Some have claimed since the mid-Edo period that such ancient characters, for example such as Chikushi characters and Hokkaido characters, have been found in archeological remains, in Kofun and on mountains, but all \"jindai moji\" are generally considered to be forgeries. No earthenware with such characters has ever been found.\n\nThe concept of \"jindai moji\" was first addressed at the end of the Kamakura period. Urabe no Kanekata () mentioned in Shaku Nihongi that his father. Urabe no Kanefumi, argued that the ancient Japanese could not have performed bone-style fortunetelling with turtleshells (亀卜, \"Kameura\", \"turtle fortunetelling\"), as described in the Nihon Shoki, without having a writing system.\n\nSome examples of \"jindai moji\" appeared during the Edo period, each set being named after its supposed source. Even then, the authenticity of \"jindai moji\" was supported by scholars such as Tsurumine Shigenobu (), and at least one scholar, Hirata Atsutane, changed his opinion from negative to positive. Other scholars, such as Kaibara Ekken, Dazai Shundai (), Kamo no Mabuchi, Motoori Norinaga and Tō Teikan (), rejected both the concepts and the claimed examples. The most famous article denying the existence of \"jindai moji\" was \"Jindaiji ben\" (神代字弁), attached to \"Kana no motosue\" (仮字本末) by Ban Nobutomo (). The skepticism about \"jindai moji\" that developed in the Edo period has been the prevailing attitude among scholars ever since.\n\nIn 1930, a religious sect, Amatsukyō, was charged with Lese-majesty by the special higher police. Amatsukyō had used documents that were partly written in what its members said were \"jindai moji\". Experts in linguistics and other scholars gave evidence in court that the documents were forgeries. However, the documents and other artifacts of this sect were destroyed in the American bombardment of Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "289960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=289960", "title": "KV55", "text": "KV55\n\nKV55 is a tomb in the Valley of the Kings in Egypt. It was discovered by Edward R. Ayrton in 1907 while he was working in the Valley for Theodore M. Davis. It has long been speculated, as well as much-disputed, that the body found in this tomb was that of the famous Pharaoh Akhenaten, who moved the capital to Akhetaten (modern day Amarna). The results of genetic and other scientific tests published in February 2010 have confirmed that the person buried there was both the son of Amenhotep III as well as the father of Tutankhamun. Furthermore, the study established that the age of this person at the time of his death was consistent with that of Akhenaten's, thereby making it almost certain that it is Akhenaten's body. However, a growing body of work soon began to appear to dispute the assessment of the age of the mummy and the identification of KV55 as Akhenaten.\n\nBoth the tomb's history and the identification of its single occupant have been problematic. It is assumed to be a royal cache and reburial dating from the late 18th Dynasty, prepared after the abandonment of Amarna and the dismantling of the royal necropolis there. On the basis of the recovered artifacts, it is also suggested that the burial once contained more than a single occupant, either interred on one occasion or over a period of time. Queen Tiye is most often named in this context.\n\nIt is also clear that the tomb was re-entered at a later time, almost certainly during the 20th Dynasty. At this time, any additional, hypothetical occupants of the tomb would have been removed and (possibly) relocated to KV35, while the remaining mummy and some of the other artefacts were desecrated and abandoned.\n\nThe tomb is often referred to as the \"Amarna cache\", given the mixed nature of its contents.\n\nThe entrance to KV55 was uncovered by Ayrton on 6 January 1907. Its discovery was brought to Davis's attention on the following day. The tomb was first entered on 9 January by Ayrton, Davis, Joseph Lindon Smith, and (as the representative of the antiquities service) Arthur Weigall. On the 11th, the finds were photographed. Ayrton then began clearance of the tomb. On 25 January 1907, the coffin and mummy were investigated in situ.\n\nAccording to a letter from Davis to Gaston Maspero, some of the objects found in KV55 were still in place in January 1908, and their study and attempts at conservation were still ongoing at this later date.\n\nIn 1921, while excavating south of the tomb, Howard Carter discovered several items that seem to have originated in KV55. These include a jasper burnisher and some fragments of copper rosettes from a funerary pall.\n\nAfter its excavation, the tomb's entrance was fitted with a steel door, which however was later removed and replaced by stone blocking. By 1944, this blocking had collapsed and filled the tomb's entrance with debris. In 1993, the tomb was cleared again by Lyla Pinch Brock. In 1996, she undertook conservation work on the stairs and the plastering inside the burial chamber through a grant from the American Research Centre in Egypt.\n\nThree days before the discovery of KV55, Ayrton uncovered a recess in the rock (now designated as KVC) located immediately above the entrance to KV55 and containing jars of 20th dynasty type. This recess may have been an unfinished tomb commencement, and its content may be analogous to the embalming cache found in KV54, but because the find was never properly published, the precise nature of its contents, the date of the jars, and its relation (if any) to KV55 are now unclear.\n\nKV55 is a relatively small, undecorated, single-chamber tomb, its total length measuring only 27.61 meters. It is located in the central area of the Valley, immediately adjacent to and below KV 6 (Ramesses IX) and across the valley floor from KV7 (Ramesses II) and the near-contemporary tomb KV62 (Tutankhamun). Oriented almost due east, its entranceway consists of a set of stairs cut into the Valley's bedrock which lead to a gently sloping corridor and then to the tomb's single chamber.\n\nThe tomb appears to be unfinished: in the south wall of the burial chamber is a small niche, the commencement of an unfinished antechamber, while red masonry marks within the burial chamber indicate plans for yet another room. When finished these would have made the tomb's layout roughly similar to that of Tutankhamun's. Such a plan seems to indicate that KV55, like KV62, was initially intended as a private burial site and only later taken over for a royal interment.\n\nThe tomb is accessed by a flight of 20 steps, cut into the bedrock and covered by an overhanging rock. An ostracon found by Pinch Brock in 1993 has been interpreted as a plan of the tomb, and possibly indicates a widening of the entrance after its initial cutting. This possibility is also suggested by mason's marks found on the walls by the tomb's entrance. It appears that the stairwell has been enlarged, its ceiling raised, and the number of steps increased.\n\nWhen the tomb was discovered in 1907, the stairwell was covered with debris, probably originating from the cutting of KV 6 directly above. The upper layer of this filling consisted of chips cemented together by water; underneath, the chips were dry and clean.\n\nWhen it was discovered, the tomb's outer door was blocked by two consecutive walls. The primary blocking consisted of a wall of cemented limestone blocks, plastered and stamped with the seal of the Royal Necropolis (with the jackal and nine captives motif). Weigall later stated that a fragment of Tutankhamun's seal had been recovered from this original blocking. However, his statement is not corroborated by any of the other reports dating from the initial discovery, leaving Weigall's claim open to question.\n\nThe first wall had been partially pulled down in antiquity, and the tomb was closed again by a second wall made of loose limestone fragments, erected in front of the remains of the first wall. Because Weigall described these consecutive blockings in ambiguous terms, it is unclear whether the secondary wall was found intact or had already been partially dismantled, like the primary wall.\n\nThe sloping corridor beyond the entrance was partially filled with rubble. Since the secondary wall was built on top of material originating from this rubble, the fill seems to date from the time of the original interment. By 1907 this rubble had spread down into the burial chamber. Stains on the ceiling and walls of the corridor indicate that water had infiltrated the tomb in the past.\n\nOn top of the rubble fill were found a panel and door of a large gilded shrine, although the exact position of these items is unclear. Additional pieces of the same shrine were recovered from the burial chamber.\n\nThe walls of the burial chamber were plastered but otherwise undecorated. This plastering seems to have been done some years after the cutting of the tomb, and repairs are evident. Rubble fill from the corridor had spread down into the chamber, partially covering its floor with debris. Elsewhere in the burial chamber, the floor and numerous objects were covered with fragments of plaster fallen from the walls and stones fallen from the ceiling.\n\nItems found in the burial chamber can be grouped into several categories:\n\nSome wooden objects in the burial chamber seem to have suffered water damage, most notably the coffin, bier, and boxes; however, the elements of the gilded shrine appear to have been reasonably solid. Moisture is also the likely cause of the discoloration visible on some of the faience objects, although other, similar objects appear unaffected.\n\nThe problems surrounding the interpretation of KV55 are due in large part to the shortcomings of Davis's original publication of the excavation. Its mix of fact, assumption, error, and omission has obscured a full understanding of the deposit ever since. The blame for these shortcomings usually falls on Davis (as editor of the publication) and Ayrton (as supervising archaeologist).\nRecent careful re-examinations of the original publication, of eyewitness reports, and of the photographs taken before the tomb was cleared have brought some clarity to the situation.\n\nAlthough the tomb was clearly disturbed in antiquity (see below), and although its contents have been described as disorded and chaotic, Martha Bell argued that this disarray was more apparent than real. Her reconstruction of the layout of the tomb indicates an orderly and deliberate arrangement of artefacts, and she suggests that the impression of chaos might be due to the collapse of wooden objects caused by falling plaster and stone. The \"cemented\" chips and stains in the corridor indicate that water entered the tomb along the corridor ceiling, but the amount of water might not have been great, and most damage could have been caused by increased humidity rather than direct contact with water. Bell also suggested that the moisture under the mummy might have resulted from rainfall shortly after the tomb's opening in 1907. Other damage to wooden objects might result from an insect attack.\n\nA recent reconstruction of the shrine, based on photographic evidence, drawings, eyewitness descriptions, and two surviving planks on display in Cairo, indicate that it resembled Tutankhamun's second and third shrines in general appearance and size. The presence of copper rosettes indicate that a funeral pall was draped on a frame associated with the shrine, also comparable to Tutankhamun's shrines. However, the decoration and inscriptions on the shrine are markedly different from those of Tutankhamun: the decoration was dominated by large offering scenes rather than a multitude of smaller mythological scenes; the text was far more brief, and seems primarily concerned with titles, names, and the shrine's dedication, rather than with excerpts from funerary books; and the interior of the shrine was uninscribed and undecorated.\n\nThe text on the shrine states that it was made by Akhenaten for his mother Tiye. With one exception, the names of Akhenaten were erased and in some places were replaced by those of Amenhotep III in ink. The text also refers to the \"House of the Aten in Akhetaten,\" perhaps indicating that the shrine was made and originally used in Amarna. The decoration, which appears to have been very similar on all sides of the shrine, features Akhenaten and Tiye making offerings to the Aten, with a focus on the king rather than his mother. As with his names, Akhenaten's figure was erased from the scenes, with one exception.\n\nThe orderly arrangement of the shrine parts inside the tomb seems to indicate that it once stood up, fully assembled, with its doors facing south, and that it was later dismantled inside the tomb. It appears that only a single shrine was used in KV55, rather than a suite of four nested shrines as in the tomb of Tutankhamun.\n\nThe presence of a shrine dedicated to Tiye is usually seen as evidence that Tiye's mummy once reposed inside the shrine in KV55. Other objects inscribed with her name (such as the piece of furniture) and with those of Amenhotep III are also seen as belonging to her funerary equipment. The seal impressions found near the east wall might indicate further items that were removed together with the queen's mummy at some later point.\n\nWhen KV55 was initially opened, Theodore Davis believed that he had found the tomb of Queen Tiye. However, it was quickly recognized that the human remains interred there were male. Georges Daressy further deduced that the gilded coffin found in the tomb was originally made for a woman and only later adapted to accommodate a king, through alterations to its inscriptions and the addition of a false beard, a uraeus, and the royal scepters (crook and flail). The identity of the coffin's original owner has been a matter of much discussion over the years, with Tiye, Nefertiti, Meketaten, and Meritaten all proposed as candidates. It is now widely accepted that the coffin was originally intended for Akhenaten's secondary wife Kiya. It is also recognized that the four canopic jars discovered near the coffin belonged to Kiya, and that the female heads on the jars' stoppers portray her. Like the coffin, the canopic jars were altered for the burial of a king through the erasure of Kiya's titulary and the addition of a royal uraeus to each portrait head.\n\nAll personal names inscribed on the coffin and the canopic jars were excised in antiquity, rendering the identity of the human remains inside the coffin a matter of long debate. Over the past century, the chief candidates for this individual have been either Akhenaten himself or Smenkhkare, another male member of the Amarna royal family.\n\nEvidence that the occupant of the coffin was Akhenaten is provided by the four magical bricks found inside the tomb. Two were inscribed in hieratic, but they are poorly preserved and the name of their owner is lost. The other two, however, are of better quality, with hieroglyphic inscriptions naming \"the Osiris Neferkheprure Waenre,\" a reference to Akhenaten's nomen. The fact that all four bricks were orientated correctly and that three of them were positioned in close association with the coffin suggests that they were intended as a set and were made for the coffin's final occupant, who would therefore be Akhenaten.\n\nThe mummy found in the tomb was however at first identified as belonging to a woman by two visiting physicians who examined the remains in situ. This led Davis to conclude he had found the mummy of queen Tiye and he therefore published his account of the discovery as \"The Tomb of Queen Tiyi\". As possible reasons for this initial identification the (typical female) position of the mummy's arms, post-mortem damage to the pelvic bones and the absence of male genitalia have been suggested. But when anatomist Grafton Elliot Smith examined the skull and bones in Cairo a few months later he concluded that they were those of a young male, with wide hips, a pendent chin and distorted cranium brought on by chronic hydrocephalus. The age of death he estimated as being around 25 years although he later suggested the possibility that the body had suffered from Frölich's syndrome which delayed normal skeletal maturation. These results were seen to support the initial claims by Weigall, Maspero and Smith, based on other evidence found in the tomb (see above) that the body was that of Akhenaten.\n\nLater re-examinations of the remains confirmed Smith's original identification of the mummy as belonging to a young male (although with feminine trends) but pushed the estimated age of death back to around 20 years. These re-examinations also indicated that the body showed no signs of delayed maturation and that, while the skull was of unusual shape, it certainly wasn't abnormal, and showed no indication of hydrocephalus. Reconstruction of the facial features of the skull also indicated that there was no resemblance with Akhenaten's representation on his monuments. It must be remembered though, that Akhenaten's representations are highly stylised. After the discovery of the tomb of Tutankhamun a close resemblance was noted between his mummy and the body found in KV55 and later tests showed both shared the same blood-group (A2) and serum antigen (MN), all of which suggests Tutankhamun and the individual found in KV55 were closely related to each other, either as father and son, or brothers. Based on these results it was concluded that the KV55 body was too young to be Akhenaten and they were seen to support the claim that the mummy was that of Smenkhkare, an idea first proposed by Rex Engelbach in 1931.\n\nBefore February 2010, it was pointed out that the reliability of methods to assess the age of death for mummies in general was uncertain. For these reasons the correctness of the age estimates was repeatedly called into question. This opinion found support in the analysis of the skeletal remains which had indicated an age of death around 35 years (based on dentition) or even later (based on anthropological standards and new X-rays of the long bones). Some examinations placed the mummy at 20–25 years at death, while others assessed the mummy as 35 years. The archaeological, inscriptional and now genetic evidence indicate that the ancient Egyptians who buried (and later desecrated) the body in KV55 believed this to be Akhenaten's.\n\nFurther complicating the identity of the KV55 mummy is the fact that he does not seem to be the father of the female mummy KV21a. The latter has been identified as the mother of two foetuses found in Tutankhamun's tomb, thus probably making her Ankhesenamun, the daughter of Akhenaten and the only known wife of Tutankhamun.\n\nThe deposit as it was found in KV55 presents a mixture of chronological and religious anomalies. Objects inscribed with Amenhotep III's nomen and prenomen might be contemporary with that king's reign and could be interpreted as possessions of Queen Tiye. Other items inscribed with Tiye's name (such as the shrine and furniture elements) also clearly belonged to her. Akhenaten's presence is indicated by items originally inscribed for him (such as the magical bricks) and items that were adapted for his use (such as the coffin and canopic jars).\nIt is nevertheless highly unlikely that either of these two burials within KV55 was original. In the case of Tiye, evidence found in tomb WV22 suggests that Amenhotep III prepared her burial in his own tomb. However, the fact that Tiye outlived her husband by possibly as much as twelve years seems to have disrupted such plans. From inscriptional evidence on the KV55 shrine on the other hand, it seems likely that Tiye was buried at Amarna by her son Akhenaten. In the case of Akhenaten it seems almost certain that he was originally buried in the tomb he prepared for himself in the Amarna royal wadi. Although it is unclear whether or not the original blocking of the tomb was stamped with Tutankhamun's seal, the several small seal impressions carrying his prenomen are most likely related to the reburial(s) in KV55 since he was probably not involved in the original burial preparations of either Tiye (who died several years before Tutankhamun came to the throne) or Akhenaten (who presumably was buried by his co-regent and probable immediate successor Smenkhkare).\n\nOne scenario, suggested by Nicholas Reeves, is as follows: Akhenaten and his mother, Queen Tiye, were originally entombed at Akhenaten's new capital Akhetaten (modern Amarna) but their mummies were moved to KV55 following the total abandonment of Akhetaten during the reign of Tutankhamun, who was Akhenaten's son. The door to KV55 was sealed with Tutankhamun's name. There the mummies remained for about 200 years, until the tomb was rediscovered by workmen excavating the tomb of Ramesses IX nearby. By this time, Akhenaten was reviled as the \"heretic king\"; consequently, Queen Tiye's sarcophagus was hastily removed from his defiling presence, except for its surrounding gilded wooden shrine which would have had to be dismantled for removal. Akhenaten's likeness was chiseled off of the shrine's carved relief. Moreover, the gold face mask was ripped from Akhenaten's sarcophagus and his identifying cartouche was removed from its hieroglyphic inscription, thus consigning its occupant to oblivion. As a final insult, a large rock was thrown at the coffin. However, a finely made vulture pectoral—a symbol of royalty in Ancient Egypt—was still found placed around this mummy's head.\n\nIn 1923, Harry Burton used KV55 as a darkroom to develop his photographs documenting Howard Carter's excavation of Tutankhamun's tomb.\n\n\n2013, Lyla Pinch Brock, \"Shooting in KV55; New Light on Early Photography,\" \nPapers in Honor of Richard H.Wilkinson, P.P. Creasman, ed., University of Arizona,\nArizona, NM, pp. 241–254.\n\n2012 L. Pinch-Brock, \"The Pottery from the So-Called 'Tomb of Queen Tiye,'\nBulletin de Liaison de La Ceramique Egyptienne 23, Institute Francais\nd'archeologie orientale, Le Caire, 2012, pp.195-208.\n\n2000 Lyla Pinch-Brock, \"An Unpublished Photograph of \nKV55,\" Gottingen Miszellen, no. 175 (2000) \npp. 65–69.\n\n1997 L.P. Brock, \"The Final Clearance of KV 55,\" in \nAncient Egypt, the Aegean, and \nthe Near East. Studies in Honour \nof Martha Rhoads Bell, J. Phillips, \nL. Bell, and B.B. Williams, with J. Hoch \nand R. Leprohon, (eds), (San Antonio, 1997), \nvol. I, pp. 121–136.\n\n1996 Lyla Pinch-Brock, \"The Theban Flood of 1994 and the Case of KV55,\" \nIUBILATE CONLEGAE; Studies in Memory of \nAbdel Aziz Sadek, Charles Van Sicklen (ed), Part \nII, Varia Aegyptiaca II, no. 1, \n(April 1996), pp.1–16.\n\n1995 Lyla Pinch-Brock, \"Theodore Davis and the Rediscovery \nof KV55,\" in Valley of the Sun Kings, \nRichard Wilkinson, Editor, \nUniversity of Arizona, Tucson, pp.34–46.\n\n"}
{"id": "2905770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905770", "title": "Kurdistan Islamic Group", "text": "Kurdistan Islamic Group\n\nKurdistan Islamic Group ( \"Komelî Îslamî Kurdistan / 'Êraq\"; \"al-Jumāʿa al-islāmiya al-Kurdistaniya - al-ʿIrāq\") is a movement in Iraqi Kurdistan established in May 2001 by Ali Bapir, a former leader of the Islamic Movement of Kurdistan.\n\nRegarding their political party position in relation to other political parties, in an interview in January 2003 Ali Bapir stated: \n\"Our policy is that we enter into fraternity and cooperation with all Islamic groups. We seek such fraternal relations with Islamic parties and organizations, Islamist figures, and groups that follow a Salafi tradition or a Sufi or a scientific tradition. In the Komala Islami, we believe that the group must be open-minded and seek fraternity with all those who call or act for Islam. If we see a mistake, we will try to correct it through dialogue and by creating a fraternal atmosphere.\"\nIn the Iraqi legislative election of January 2005, it decided to run independently from the main Kurdish coalition. It received over 60,000 votes (about 0.7%) and two seats in the transitional National Assembly of Iraq. After the elections, the party agreed to join the Kurdish alliance's National Assembly caucus...\n\nAt the same time, it won 85,237 votes and 6 Kurdish National Assembly seats in the Kurdistan election on the same day. In the Local elections, that day they won 18,781 votes (2.9%) and 1 seat (out of 41) in Hawler as well as 53,088 votes (7.3%) and 3 (out of 41) seats in Silemani.\n\nIn the Iraqi legislative election of December 2005 they decided to join the Kurdish coalition and were allocated one seat.\n\nIn the Iraqi Kurdistan legislative election, 2009 they formed a coalition with the Kurdistan Islamic Union, Kurdistan Socialist Democratic Party and the Future Party, called the Service and Reform List. The list came third in the election winning 240,842 votes (12.8%) and 13 (out of 111) seats.\n\nIn the Iraqi legislative election, 2010 they formed their own independent list. Despite a numerous of campaigns, numbers of their members collapsed and they received only 152,530 votes (1.32%) and 2 seats (one in Hawler and one in Silemani),\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17616582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616582", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Peru", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Peru\n\nThe Catholic Church in Peru comprises seven ecclesiastical provinces each headed by an archbishop. The provinces are in turn subdivided into 19 dioceses and seven archdioceses each headed by a bishop or an archbishop. There are also 10 territorial prelatures, 8 apostolic vicariates and one Military Ordinariate in Peru.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27687100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27687100", "title": "List of churches named after Saint Joseph", "text": "List of churches named after Saint Joseph\n\nA number of churches and basilicas are named after Saint Joseph. The following is a list.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30209501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30209501", "title": "Maharaja of Alwar", "text": "Maharaja of Alwar\n\nAlwar State was a princely state ruled by a Rajput dynasty during the period of the British Raj in India. Its last ruler signed the accession to the Indian Union on 7 April 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "1777439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777439", "title": "Naubakht", "text": "Naubakht\n\nNobakht Ahvazi (, (or Naubakht Ahvaz) also transliterated \"Naubakht\") and his sons lived in the 8th and 9th centuries AD, and were astrologers from Ahvaz (in the present-day Khuzestan Province of Iran).\n\nNobakht was particularly famous for having led a group of astrologers who picked an auspicious electional chart for the founding of Baghdad. His family also helped design the city. Originally Zoroastrians, Nobakht and his sons converted to Islam and were employed as Pahlavi translators of the Abbasid court.\n\n"}
{"id": "40042600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40042600", "title": "Nympholepsy", "text": "Nympholepsy\n\nNympholepsy was the belief of the ancient Greeks that individuals could be possessed by the nymphs. Individuals who considered themselves nympholepts would display a great religious devotion to the nymphs. An example is Archedemos of Thera, who built the sanctuary of the nymphs in the Vari Cave northeast of Attica, Greece. \n\nNympholepsy, a term first used in 1775 by Richard Chandler in Travels in Greece, is described as “frenzy or rapture [that was] supposed to take hold of a man upon gazing on a nymph”. It originates from the Greek word \"nymphe\", meaning “bride”, “beautiful young woman”, then “semi-divine being in the form of a beautiful maiden”, and epilepsy, from the Greek word \"epilepsis\", meaning “a seizure”. Though the root of nympholepsy implies a fit or seizure, according to Socrates, as presented in the writings of Plato, a person could experience nympholepsy without any “tearing of clothes, the biting of lips, or convulsions, or frenzies”. Plato implies in his writings that nympholepsy showed itself in others by “heightened awareness and eloquence”. Ancient Greece also had the word \"nymphleptos\", meaning “caught by nymphs”.\n\nNymphs were known as female spirits of the natural world, and were minor goddesses of various aspects in nature – forests, rivers, springs, meadows, mountains and seas. They were often depicted as beautiful young women with attributes symbolizing whatever natural formation they ruled over.\n\nNymphs are most often described as either the daughters of Zeus, the river Oceanus, or Gaia, though various other gods and goddesses have been attributed to their parentage over the years. Many gods are also described as having various nymph companions; for example, Artemis is known for her band of huntress nymphs, Poseidon is often accompanied by sea nymphs called Nereides, and nymph handmaidens were common companions to the goddesses of Olympos. Some elder nymphs, such as those of the Okeanides and Nereides class, were known as immortal goddesses, but most nymphs had a finite, though very long, lifespan.\n\nThe Vari Cave is also known as the Nympholyptos Cave, and lies northeast of Vari in Attica, Greece. Along with being a shrine to the nymphs, the Vari Cave is also a shrine devoted to the gods Pan and Apollo. It is also known as the Cave of Pan, and is unique for the reliefs cut into the rock by nympholept Archedemos.\n\nArchedemos was a native of Thera, an island which is now known as modern-day Santorini and is located 318 kilometers from the Vari Cave. According to Richard Chandler's writings in his account in Travels in Greece, Archedemos moved from his native town and settled in Attica, Greece, which was 35.5 kilometers from the Cave of Vari where he would later create his shrine to the nymphs, Apollo, and Pan.\n\nThough it is a shrine devoted to Apollo and Pan as well, Archedemos created the cave “for the nymphs, by whom he was possessed”. By the writings of Archedemos in the cave, it is presumed that the Vari Cave was furnished with a dwelling and a garden for the nymphs, as well as a well of water.\n\nRichard Chandler, an English antiquary, was the first scientist to report his findings of the Vari Cave in 1765, but the cave was not excavated until 1901 by Charles Heald Weller.\n\nIn modern culture, nympholepsy is also defined as \"passion aroused in men by beautiful young girls\", and \"wild frenzy caused by desire for an unattainable ideal\". The most famous example is in Vladimir Nabokov's \"Lolita\", where the main character Humbert Humbert has an obsession with prepubescent girls he refers to as nymphets and self-describes as a nympholept. The obsession with young girls is explained with the loss of his first love when she was a young age, referring back to the definition of an unattainable ideal.\n\n"}
{"id": "19338211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19338211", "title": "Obodas I", "text": "Obodas I\n\nObodas I ( \"ʿUbaydah\") was king of the Nabataeans from 96 BC to 85 BC. After his death, Obodas was worshiped as a deity.\n\nObodas was the successor of Aretas II, from whom he inherited the war with the Hasmonean kingdom. He defeated them around 93 BCE on the Golan Heights.\n\nThen he ambushed Alexander Jannaeus near Gadara (Umm Qais), just east of the Sea of Galilee. Using camel cavalry, he forced Jannaeus into a valley where he completed the ambush thereby getting revenge for the Nabateans' loss of Gaza. Moab and Gilead, two mountains east of the Dead Sea and the Jordan River, were returned.\n\nAround 86 BCE, the Seleucid ruler, Antiochus XII Dionysus, invaded Nabatea. During the Battle of Cana, Antiochus was slain and his demoralized army perished in the desert. The Nabataeans, seeing how Obodas defeated both the Hasmoneans and the Greeks, started to venerate Obodas as a god.\n\nObodas was buried in the Negev, at a place that was renamed in his honour, Avdat. He was succeeded by his brother Aretas III.\n\nList of Nabataean kings\n\n\"This article draws heavily on the article in the Dutch-language Wikipedia, which was accessed in the version of September 15, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "9493909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9493909", "title": "Philip Barlow", "text": "Philip Barlow\n\nPhilip Layton Barlow (born 1950) is a Harvard-trained scholar who specializes in American Religious History, religious geography, and Mormonism. In 2007 he became the country’s first full-time professor of Mormon studies at a secular university by being appointed as the Leonard J. Arrington Chair of Mormon History and Culture at Utah State University.\n\nBarlow was raised in Bountiful, Utah. In 1975, he graduated with a B.A. in History from Weber State College. In 1980 and 1988, respectively, he received his Masters in Theological Studies and Doctorate of Theology (Th.D.) from the Harvard Divinity School. While in the Boston area, Barlow taught at the local LDS Institute of Religion. He also served as a counselor in a bishopric to Mitt Romney.\n\nFollowing the completion of his education, he served in consecutive years as a Mellon Post-doctoral Fellow at the University of Rochester. Prior to his arrival at Utah State University, Barlow spent 17 years in the Department of Theological Studies at Hanover College in Indiana.\n\nIn 2017 Barlow held the first fellowship at the Neal A. Maxwell Institute for Religious Scholarship at Brigham Young University.\n\nBarlow's research interests have ranged over American religious and historical geography, concepts of “time” in secular and religious society, the problem of suffering and evil, and Mormon theology and practice. Barlow's first book, \"Mormons and the Bible: The Place of the Latter-day Saints in American Religion\" (Oxford, 1991, 1997) analyzed Latter-day Saint uses of the biblical text, including issues revolving around the LDS Church’s official backing of the King James translation. In 1992, the Mormon History Association awarded the volume its Best First Book Award. His second book, the \"New Historical Atlas of Religion in America\" (co-authored with Edwin Scott Gaustad), examined the implications of religion’s connections with “place” and created hundreds of maps portraying the religious composition of the United States over time. The Association of American Publishers named the work the “Best Single-volume Reference Book in the Humanities” for 2001.\n\nThe establishment in 2007 of the Arrington Chair at Utah State University is one prominent symbol of a new era for the study of the Mormon faith in secular higher education. It is part of the new Religious Studies Program at the University, the first program in Utah enabling students to major in religion. Since the establishment in 2007 of the Arrington Chair, Richard Bushman has been inaugurated as the Howard W. Hunter Chair of Mormon Studies at Claremont Graduate University of Religion, Utah Valley University has continued to offer its students a minor in Religious Studies, the University of Utah has recently followed suit, with both programs showing interest in Mormonism, and the University of Wyoming is working to gather funds for a professorship in Mormon studies.\n\nIn 2006, Philip Barlow was President of the Mormon History Association, and currently serves on the Boards of Directors for the Society for Mormon Philosophy and Theology and the Dialogue Foundation, on the Steering Committee for the American Academy of Religion’s new Consultation in Mormon Studies, and as a member of the editorial board of the Intermountain West Journal of Religious Studies.\n\nAs Author: \n\n\nAs Editor:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2144220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2144220", "title": "Pierian Spring", "text": "Pierian Spring\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Pierian Spring of Macedonia was sacred to the Muses. As the metaphorical source of knowledge of art and science, it was popularized by a couplet in Alexander Pope's poem \"An Essay on Criticism\" (1711): \"A little learning is a dang'rous thing; / Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring.\"\n\nThe Pierian spring is sometimes confused with the Castalian Spring.\n\nThe sacred spring was said to be near ancient Leivithra in Pieria, a region of ancient Macedonia, also the location of Mount Olympus, and believed to be the home and the seat of worship of Orpheus. The Muses \"were said to have frolicked about the Pierian springs soon after their birth\". The spring is believed to be a fountain of knowledge that inspires whoever drinks from it.\n\nThe name of the spring comes from the Pierides, the gaggle of girls (daughters of King Pierus) who sought a contest with the Muses. When they lost, they were turned into magpies. Ovid tells this tale after explaining the origin of the Heliconian spring in \"Metamorphoses\"V. The metamorphoses into magpies comes at the end of the book:\n\nThe greatest of our number ended thus her learned songs; and with concordant voice the chosen Nymphs adjudged the Deities, on Helicon who dwell, should be proclaimed the victors. But the vanquished nine began to scatter their abuse; to whom rejoined the goddess; 'Since it seems a trifling thing that you should suffer a deserved defeat, and you must add unmerited abuse to heighten your offence, and since by this appears the end of our endurance, we shall certainly proceed to punish you according to the limit of our wrath.' But these Emathian sisters laughed to scorn our threatening words; and as they tried to speak, and made great clamour, and with shameless hands made threatening gestures, suddenly stiff quills sprouted from out their finger-nails, and plumes spread over their stretched arms; and they could see the mouth of each companion growing out into a rigid beak.And thus new birds were added to the forest.While they made complaint, these Magpies that defile our groves, moving their stretched-out arms, began to float, suspended in the air. And since that time their ancient eloquence, their screaming notes, their tiresome zeal of speech have all remained.\nAn early reference to the Pierian spring is found in the \"Satyricon\" of Petronius, from the 1st century AD, at the end of section 5 \nSappho, too, refers to the roses of the Pierian spring, in her poem \"To One Who Loved Not Poetry,\" in the mid-600 B.C.\nLines 215 to 232 of read:\n\nIn Greek mythology, it was believed that drinking from the Pierian Spring would bring you great knowledge and inspiration. Thus, Pope is explaining how if you only learn a little it can \"intoxicate\" you in such a way that makes you feel as though you know a great deal. However, when \"drinking largely sobers\" you, you become aware of how little you truly know.\n\nThe opening stanza also appears in Ray Bradbury's \"Fahrenheit 451\", as Fire Captain Beatty chastizes Guy Montag, the protagonist, about reading books, which are forbidden in the society of the novel.\n\nIn his poem \"Hugh Selwyn Mauberley,\" Ezra Pound refers to Pierian \"roses\" in a critique of the cheap aesthetic of his time, which in his opinion has replaced a true appreciation of art and knowledge:\n\n\"Conduct, on the other hand, the soul\n'Which the highest cultures have nourished'\nTo Fleet St. where\nDr. Johnson flourished;\n\nBeside this thoroughfare\nThe sale of half-hose has\nLong since superseded the cultivation\nOf Pierian roses.\"\n\nSir William Jones (1746–1794) also made reference to \"the fam'd Pierian rill\" (a brook or rivulet) in his poem about the origin of chess, \"Caissa\".\n\nHenry Miller also made mention of it in his MOLOCH.\n\nIn the David Cronenberg remake of The Fly, the protagonist Seth Brundle succumbs to madness and disease as the result of a hubristic science experiment. During his descent into fanaticism in the movie's second act, he rants at the short-sightedness of his lover, proclaiming \"drink deep, or taste not the plasma spring!\". The usage is ironic; Brundle's inability to recognise the shortcomings of his knowledgeand his experimentultimately leads to his destruction.\n"}
{"id": "53009294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53009294", "title": "Pilgrim: Faith as a Weapon", "text": "Pilgrim: Faith as a Weapon\n\nPilgrim: Faith as a Weapon is a 1997 adventure video game, written by Paulo Coelho, who wrote \"The Pilgrimage\", the novel on which the game is based. \"Pilgrim\" has been described as a \"commercial cultural heritage game\" and \"graphic interactive fiction\". It is the premiere title of Arxel Tribe and the first in The Paulo Coelho trilogy, alongside \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\" (1999) and \"The Secrets of Alamut\" (2001).\n\nThe game is loosely based on Paulo Coelho's autobiographical 1987 novel \"The Pilgrimage\". It is a time of superstition and religious persecution, where Catharism reigns supreme. Set at the beginning of the Albigensian Crusade (1208) in the south of France, the story sees Simon Lancroix aim to complete his dying father's wishes of finding a secret manuscript and delivering it to a friend named Petrus. It is revealed that this actually a Coptic manuscript that a renegade Templar brought back from Crusades; it is believed to be the lost Gospel of Saint Jean. This manuscript gets passed around to various characters and locations. Meanwhile, Pope Innocent III orders the inquisitor Diego de Osma to retrieve the manuscript. Mystical creatures such as angels and demons also become entangled in the battle.\n\nThe first half of the game sees the player complete a series of tasks to help other characters, who in return help the player. Halfway through the game, the player meets Petrus, who reveals that the player's father was the leader of a fictional religious sect called \"The Tradition\", which aims to bring an absolute truth that no other religion can. From this point the game covers symbolic, spiritual, and supernatural philosophies such as dreams, peace, compassion, love, salvation, the four horsemen of the apocalypse, growing up and giving up, and re-learning what we knew as children; the final scene takes place in limbo.\n\n\"Pilgrim\" is a first person point-and-click adventure. Players click through a series of static frames—a slideshow of pre-rendered 3D environments—to move around; one is not free of their movements and must often strategically click screen points in a certain order to reach a destination. The cursor becomes an arrow to indicate a possible movement, and a click transitions the player to the next location. It is possible to die in the game; causes of death include the player failing to accomplish certain time-dependent challenges. If the player dies they are returned to the beginning of the latest checkpoint, often after a cutscene. There are also two unwinnable states; one of them occurs if the player gives all their money to a beggar in Toulouse, despite them needing the money to go past the very next door. The player is encouraged to \"save early, save often\". The final puzzle of the game has been described as \"no less than an exam about what you're supposed to have learned\". The game comes with two discs, which are both required for game installation; regardless of where the player is, Disc 1 must be inserted every time the player boots up the game.\n\nThe \"Inventory\" interface contains three elements. \"Bag\" contains the acquired items (the player is limited in the number of items and the weight they can carry). \"People\" contains the characters that the player had encountered, knows about, or wants information on. \"Items\" contains the objects which have been seen or heard about but not acquired. \"People\" and \"Items\" of interest can be brought up as conversation topics with others. To use an item in \"Bag\", the player clicks on it to activate it (it then has a yellow box around it), then clicks \"View\". To offer a topic of discussion, the player clicks on an item in the \"People\" or \"Items\" tabs to activate it, then clicks on a character in the \"View\" screen to talk about it. The puzzles require both reflection and patience. The \"Bag\" items and the clues within the \"Encyclopedia\" can be applied and manipulated to solve puzzles thereby advancing the story. The latter is similar to how the Chronopedia in used in Broderbund adventure game \"Carmen Sandiego's Great Chase Through Time\". The game has a hint system to provide clues for the more obscure puzzles. The entries of the in-game \"Encyclopedia\" have been described as \"spartan\" due to consisting exclusively of text. Sometimes when a character mentions a topic that is available in the encyclopedia during a conversation, a keyword will appear on the screen which may then be clicked to bring up the corresponding entry. While not required, this feature allows the player to delve deeper into the interesting historical nuggets that feature throughout the game. The player has an in-game notebook, into which they may copy-paste extracts from the encyclopedia.\n\nArxel Tribe was founded in 1990 by two Slovenian architects named Matjaž Požlep and Diego Zanco. Prior to \"Pilgrim\", the company had been known for designing and producing animated computer graphics for the architecture industry on Silicon Graphics computers from three agencies in Ljubljana, Paris and Milan. Frenchmen Stephen Carrière and Guillaume de Fondaumière joined the company three years later in 1993. They helped diversify it into a special effects company for the advertising industry in 1994 by creating an educational film for an Italian design agency, which went on to win awards and be featured at the Berlin Film Festival. That experience gave the team a desire to create graphics as a means of expression, and to pursue more ambitious projects in the entertainment industry; specifically for video games. Arxel Tribe tried to raise funds for over a year to pursue the goal, but were unsuccessful at the time. In 1996, Anne Carriére Multimédia was founded as a subsidiary arm of Anne Carriére, the publishing house in charge of the French publication of work by Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho and French cartoon artist Jean Giraud (also known as Mœbius). The subsidiary was created to specialise in the production of a genre of video games called \"author games\"; they chose Arxel Tribe to serve as the development team for the title. Stephen Carrière's mother, Anne, was the head of Anne Carriére publishing house; this well-connectedness allowed for the ability for Arxel Tribe to collaborate with a high calibre of creative talent on its debut foray into the video game space\n\nThe premiere project of the new venture was chosen by Anne Carriére Multimédia to be an adventure game based off Coelho's \"The Pilgrimage\" (1987) while the artistic direction was handed to French comic artist and frequent video game collaborator Jean Giraud (aka Moebius); \"The Pilgrimage\" would be his last gaming project. Moebius had previously contributed art illustrations to the French edition of one of Coelho's books, and had designed covers for gaming projects such as \"Panzer Dragoon\" (1995) and \"Fade to Black\" (1995). Coelho's books had sold in the millions, and this provided an incentive for the threads of his work to be woven into giant PC games. According to SK Online, Coelho \"accepted the proposal with great pleasure\" after learning that the general appearance of the game would be decided by Moebius. Moebius and Coelho started the design work in 1996. In 1996, one short year since their last diversification, Arxel Tribe had a meeting with Coelho and Moebius, with the result being the company switching gears to become a video game development studio and signing onto the project, which was to be published by Infogrames in 1997. Fondaumière recalled \"sitting at a bar in Frankfurt with Paulo Coelho [and] discussing the crazy idea of creating a videogame together\". Stephen Carrière and Guillaume de Fondaumière helped Arxel Tribe re-position itself as a developer of \"author games\", and the company bought the rights to publishing a video game adaption of \"Pilgrim\". Arxel Tribe had made a lot of money in the advertising industry and had grown a desire to move into the video gaming industry; they were currently in a financially agreeable state to pursue this vision. Moebius required 20 million francs of investment to become involved. Matja Požlep noted that creating a game based on Coelho's work was useful because potential customers would have already had an acquaintance with his work. Guillaume de Fondaumiere recalled that as professionals, Coelho and Mobius charged a high price for their effort, and had a highly ambitious, challenging, and expensive vision; Arxel Tribe's lack of experience in video game development meant that the collaboration became \"fantastic, but also a painful experience\" much to their dismay. The game would originally be called \"Pilgrim\" during the development stage, and by its release would subtitled with \"Faith as a Weapon.\"\n\nAdventure gaming was chosen by Arxel Tribe because the genre had recently been experiencing technological advancements that were comparable to those seen in the shooting genre with new releases such as \"Doom\" (1993) and \"Quake\" (1996), which opened up new graphical and narrative possibilities. Arxel Tribe aimed to create an adventure game with an \"epic\" and \"gripping\" narrative to give justice to the source material's \"initiatory, romantic and spiritual journey\". They wanted to make a \"humanist journey with a very deep story line\", instead of being \"just another adventure game\". The development company collaborated with Coelho into adapting the story into more of an investigative detective mystery in order to better immerse the player while encouraging them to utilise their logic and imagination. The early 13th century was chosen as the game's time period due to its \"historical and mythical richness\" abundant with heresy, crusades, and errands by knights; the developers felt this was the ideal setting to illustrate the \"generous and humanist philosophy\" inherent in Coelho's book. Stephen Carrière expressed that video game manufacturers were drawn toward comic book writers, screenwriters or cartoonists due to their desire to create a unique graphic universe that sets the game apart from the rest of the market. Matjaz Požlep said the company worked within an adventure gaming niche, and within it an intellectual gaming sub-niche. Around this time 46 people were working on Arxel Tribe games at their Ljubljana company headquarters.\n\nWhile Guillaume de Fondaumière considered video gaming a mere extension of their 3D studio business, he was neither a programmer or graphic artist, so he assumed the role of producer and sought to find people who cared about the creative side of game development. With a team of \"galley slaves\", they managed to complete the game in a mere 15 months.\n\nMoebius collaborated with Arxel Tribe artistic director Nicolas Fructus on the game's design elements to draw the concept art for scenes and characters. The development company felt that the drawings by Moebius enhanced the magical quality of the story, and provided a sense of cultural and spiritual curiosity, transcending the generic conventions of the adventure game genre. The 2D character design work was done in both Ljubljana and Paris, while the adaptation of the designs using 3D graphic software was completed in Ljubljana Computer artists created 3D images from Moebius' drawings using Silicon Graphics computers (such as Onyx and Indigo 2, which they had used in previous non-video game projects); they mixed traditional computer graphics techniques, such as rigging, with motion capture in order to animate the characters.\n\nThe game's 3D engine was created in-house ar Pilgrim, and the computer-rendered elements like scenes and characters weremade to look on par with the top level video game developers of the time. Marcin Mierzejewski Zenzire approached Arxel Tribe in 1996 to become a 3D modeller and animator, but was instead hired as a coder for this game. At the time the company had limited coding experience from their previous multimedia projects, so they needed a professional coder. Zenzire \"set up the initial architecture for the game engine, coded some UI routines and the game's interactive encyclopedia\", using expertise from his work using hypertext. He also \"supervised the code and offered assistance with other programming tasks\".\n\nEarly in development, a complete literature research was carried out in order to provide the team with a comprehensive and faithful design guide containing each historical element the project required, such as clothes, architecture, and landscapes. To give the player a colourful window into the complexities of the time period, a multimedia encyclopedia containing biographical information such as maps, articles, and paintings was included in-game; the over 150 page data bank is divided into three parts: \"History & Geography\", \"Life in the Middle Ages\" and \"Religion\". This 13th century information was added to provide additional historical knowledge and context. The game was created with the participation of Le Centre National de la Cinématographie and the Ministèr Délégué à la Poste aux Télécommunications et à l'Espace.\n\nMost of the game's background music was not written for the game; it was instead chosen from preexisting music, largely from the Medieval and Romantic periods. This includes: Symphony No. 1 in D major by Gustav Mahler, a piece by Fernando Sor, a guitar-transcribed version of Isaac Albéniz's piano pieces Suite Española No. 1, Op. 47 and Cantos de España, and Greensleeves. The pieces are relatively short and loop indefinitely in their respective locations. The game is in the SVGA 640x480 aspect ratio, and was made available into English, French, German and Brazilian Portuguese.\n\nIn June 1997, Arxel reported on their website that the game was likely to be completed that December, with a world release planned for the Spring of 1998. At the time, Parisian company Anne Carierre Multimedia was confirmed as co-producer of the game, while the major worldwide distribution companies were still being negotiated. Later that year, Infogrames Entertainment signed a first publishing and distribution contract with Arxel Tribe. The project was officially announced to the press during a candlelit dinner held in a castle in Ljubljana in September 1997, with an intended release date of November of that year. The small multimedia studio treated the journalists to a sample of local handicrafts at the beginning of the evening, and then invited them to a memorable conference in the castle hall.\n\nThe game would be released in the US and Europe in November 1997 in English, French (\"Pilgrim: Par le Livre et par l'Epée\"), and German (\"Pilgrim: Das Geheimnis der Schrift\"), with a Brazilian Portuguese release entitled \"O Diário de um Mago\" being released in January 1998. The game ended up being published first in the UK in February 1998 by Infogrames Multimedia; the French publication was handled by Wanadoo Edition (formed by index+'s acquisition of France Télécom Multimédia), and the French trailer was created by Eurospace, advertised by Infogrames, and directed by Lioux Philippe. The game was also available for purchase via the Arxel Tribe webstore. As a promotion, Arxel Tribe announced they would give a free copy of the game to the first 200 people to send the company their full details. In total, $2 million was invested into the venture; of this, $1 million went toward the production of the title by Arxel Tribe and Anne Carrière Multimedia, while another $1 million was spent to promote the title which was distributed worldwide by French company Infogrames. 250,000 copies of the video game were published.\n\nJust Adventure described \"Pilgrim\" as a \"little-known title\", noting that by the time of its sequel's release in 1999, \"Pilgrim\" had still never released in North America. It noted that there were three potential culprits to the gaming \"gem\" suffering in terms of recognition: little to no marketing by Arxel Tribe, the publisher not understanding how to sell the product, and the gaming industry simply being apathetic toward adventure games at the time. Game coder Marcin Mierzejewski Zenzire would later argue that while the title was a decent success among adventure fans and created a reasonable amount of media buzz, Arxel Tribe used the boom in popularity to promote themselves rather than the game, which meant a \"comparatively small number of copies was printed and therefore sold out almost immediately\". SK Online wrote that the game was only a half-hearted success, partly because of the lack of advertising, but also because it had some technical deficiencies when compared to its contemporaries. Clovis of Gameboomers noted that during its rollout, there were \"significant delays in delivery\". \"Just Adventure\" reported that \"Pilgrim\" was originally supposed to be included as a bonus feature in the release of \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\", but that this idea was later abandoned, describing it as \"yet another marketing mistake\". The article, published between the \"Pilgrim\"'s original and re-releases, further explained that while the game was very rare, it could occasionally be located on eBay and the Game Trading Zone. In its review of \"The Secrets of Alamut\" in July 2001, \"Just Adventure\" wrote that \"Pilgrim\" had experienced a \"rejuvenation in sales\" in the time since it had been listed it in \"The Ten Best Games That (Almost) No One Has Ever Played\" article. Despite that, in 2002 \"Tap Repeatedly\" would still lament that the game had sunk into relative obscurity between its 1998 and 2001 releases. On the contrary, VGDb said the game was a \"great success\", while Arxel Tribe asserted that their game had been recognised by both players and critics for its originality and being faithful to Coelho's work. Guillaume de Fondaumiere told \"Game.EXE\" that the game sold \"surprisingly well\", and that due to the efforts of Infogrames, 40,000 copies were sold in France alone. \"Relations Presse\" asserted that the game received an impressive number of articles in the public press as a result of their public relations stunt at the Ljubljana castle.\n\nThe game would not be reprinted until three years after its original release; it was re-released in France in March 2001 and the US in November 2001 (by Selectsoft Publishing) as a Deluxe Edition, in some cases without its subtitle as just \"Pilgrim\". The re-release contained 3 CD-ROMs: the game discs and a bonus \"Making Of\" disc featuring an interview of Coelho, 14 storyboards by Moebius, an encyclopaedia of the Middle Ages, and a walkthrough solution of the game. On February 28, 2001, French adventure company Nival Interactive announced that it had signed a contract with Wanadoo Edition for the release of a Russian version of \"Pilgrim\" in the second quarter of that year, but this project was never realised (however 1C would publish the Russian versions of the sequels). In March 2001, Guillaume de Fondaumiere expressed a desire to find a publisher to facilitate the localization and distribution of the title in Russia, suggesting that players should play the game in their own languages to fully appreciate it. In 2002, CD Projekt would issue a Polish version of the game in response to the wave of popularity around Paolo Coelho and \"The Pilgrimage\" at the time. While created for Windows 3.1 or Windows 95, to be played using a Pentium 75 MHz chip and at least 16 Mbytes of RAM, the game is able to run under XP and Vista on 32-bit.\n\nIn June 1997 before the game's release, \"Stop\" magazine published an article in which they described the game's genre as most akin to the video game \"Myst\" (1993), in terms of technical design. Upon the game's announcement in September 1997, Marijô Zilveti of \"Folha De S.Paulo\" expressed joy that the game would bear a resemblance to Coelho's novel as he was directly involved in the creation of the script. In October 1997, \"PC Jeux\" wrote that its beauty and intensity made up for its \"technical poverty\". In November 1997, \"La Croix\" selected the game for its article \"French creators innovate with poetry\", describing the game as a \"historical-New Age quest\". That month, \"PC Joker\" wrote that the game's bugs were enough to sour the experience, despite the title's beautiful aesthetic design. In December 1997, \"PC Player\" said it was imitially turned off by the cumbersome, bland, and strange game, but after a while became enamoured by the \"mystery and profundity\" of the game's images and sounds. \"Power Play\" negatively compared the game to \"\", PC Action described the interface as \"unusual but very intuitive\", GameStar negatively compared the game to \"Riven\" and \"\" while accusing it of being both too complicated and obsolete, and PC Games said the game lacked tension, variety and mental challenge. In January 1998, \"PC Power\" praised the animations and the elaborate background information, though lamented that it missed award status by having handling and gameplay issues. That year, Joe Nettleback of \"PowerPlay\" wrote that he was pleased with the German dub. In 1998, Nataliya Dubrovskaya of \"Game.EXE\" expressed that the game was a beautiful entry in the \"euroadventure\" genre, along with such contemporaries as \"Dark Earth\", \"Nightmare Creatures\", and Cryo Interactive titles like \"\", \"Dreams to Reality\", and \"Versailles\", despite finding it an \"ugly term\"; the site praised the game's beauty and solid story. Meanwhile, Privat Computer PC loathed the game, describing it as a \"French failure\" In 2000, Annemarie of \"Adventure-Archiv\" noted that while she had not played the predecessor to \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\" so did not know what to expect going in, she still found enjoyment from Pilgrim's sequel.\n\nIn 2001, Ray Ivey of \"Just Adventure\", a self-professed fan of the developer due to \"Ring\" (1999) and \"Faust\" (1999), picked up \"Pilgrim\" \"mostly out of academic interest\" to examine Axel Tribe's debut work; he described the title as \"lovely\", \"mysterious\", \"educational\", \"compelling\", and a great entry in the adventure game genre. That same year the publication's Randy Sluganski ranked the game 7th in his list of \"The 10 Best Adventure Games That (Almost) No One Has Ever Played\", complimenting it for tackling foreign video game territory such as theology and superstition, and describing it as an \"artistic tour-de-force\" that addresses its themes with a sense of adventurousness, power, and scope. Gordon Aplin of \"Metzomagic\" and \"Quandary\" didn't buy the game on its original release as the box cover mislead him into thinking the game was action/adventure ala \"Knight's Chase\"; upon playing the game in 2001 he deemed it a valiant first effort by Arxel but incomparable to the later titles like \"Ring\" and \"Faust\", and in a 1999 \"Faust\" review \"Metzomagic\"'s Steve Metzler would say the company had \"improved tremendously\" when compared to Pilgrim's \"incomprehensible\" puzzle design. Upon the release of \"The Legend of the Prophet & the Assassin, SK Online\" gave Arxel Tribe the distinction of being the first company from the former Yugoslavia to have \"seriously sailed the choppy waters of the market of computer entertainment\", citing the company's decision to adapt Coelho's novel into a computer game as a sign of them pursuing original ideas from the very start. In a 2002 review \"Tap Repeatedly\"'s Enigma described the game as \"mind-blowing\", \"stunning\", \"outrageous\", and \"constantly interesti\"ng\".\"\n\nIn 2003, Polish adventure game review site \"Przygodoskop\" wrote that the title had outdated graphics, a dull narrative, and ordinary puzzles, and considered its Polish release a cash-grab due to the popularity around the author at the time. In a 2004 review of the game, JPP of \"Jeux Video\" said he preferred the beginning of the game due to its logical puzzles, as opposed to the latter half's \"spiritual initiatory quest\" narrative which has vague puzzles to match. In their first issue of 2004, Polish video gaming magazine \"Play DVD\" noted that Coelho, was known for creating \"neat\", \"fast\", \"dramatic\", and \"instructional\" work, and compared this checklist against the video game. In 2006, Avsn-nikki of \"Adventurespiele\" admitted that the graphics appeared outdated, and noted that in order to succeed you need to ask every individual character every tiny conversation thread. \"Old-Games.ru\" listed the game in its International Festival of Adventure as a rare and interesting entry in the genre. The site noted that the game was released just after historical-themed adventure games came into fashion in the late 1990s, while praising the novice developer for its Moebius' beautiful work and favourably comparing Coelho's confident script to the work of Cryo Interactive and index+; the site criticised the interface for taking up nearly half the screen and the transformation of Moebius' \"cute and stylish\" 2D drawings into low-polygon 3D dummies, but deemed it a historical, cultural, and entertainment achievement, and praised the developer's use of authentic melodies expressing a desire for them to continue this in their future work. AVEC thought there was deservedly no interest in the game.\n\n\"Puntaeclicca\"'s Aspide Gioconda liked the game from both a historical and puzzle design perspective, though thought the game's bugs slightly conditioned its quality level. \"Quedzas Video Games\" thought the game's music was beautiful and atmospheric, citing the tune playing at Saint-Sernin as evoking a sense of mystery. Mr. Bill & Lela from \"Mr. Bill's Adventureland Review\" praised the game for mixing educational historical elements seamlessly into the intriguing story. \"Abandonware France\" thought the graphics were plasticy, yet detailed and impressive for the time; the site also thought the French voice acting was generally good. The book \"Le livre de sagesse: supports, médiations, usages\" noted that games like Pilgrim demonstrate how the player's actions allow them to write or rewrite history; the fate of the narrative is in their hands. \"Studies in Medievalism\" explained that Pilgrim is one of only a handful of adventure video games set in the medieval period, alongside entries like Cryo Interactive's Arthur's Knights; the book suggested that Pilgrim \"tries so hard to be authentic\". Camille Saint-Jacques of \"Arts contemporains, 1950–2000\" thought Moebius' contribution toward the game was an example of the interest graphic artists of the time (particularly young ones) were having toward the multimedia and video games industry, which offered a more magnetic pull than traditional neuvième art (comic books); it noted that the Slovenian designers did not \"disdain to be interested\" in collaborating with a comic book artist. On his review site \"Feibel\", German journalist Thomas Feibel accused the 3D characters of moving around like \"living helium balloons\", due to their movements lacking in detail and precision. \"Gameboomers\" reviewer Clovis noted that pixel hunting is required early on, and that puzzles toward the end were so obscure he was forced to use a walkthough.\n\nDamien Poussier of \"Hardcore Gaming 101\" asserted that \"Pilgrim\" is the resulting blend of the \"relative seriousness\" and \"classic feel\" of Arxel Tribe (which he compared with Cryo Interactive), the \"great artwork\" of Moebius, and the \"ridiculous new age philosophy\" and \"low-grade proselytizing\" of Coelho. Poussier also compared the gameplay to \"Myst\" and liked that the game didn't follow the book too closely, noting that a \"stain\" of the \"author's influence\" wasn't noticeable until the game's midpoint; he thought the scene with Petrus was \"completely out of the blue\" and \"filled with absolute nonsense that even the stonest of all hippies would find laughable\". The \"Hardcore Gaming 101\" reviewer also criticised the plasticy characters which did not resemble Moebius' work, having to wait for characters to complete an animation before answering each question, and the \"excruciatingly awful\" voice acting of many characters, particularly the incorrect French and Spanish accents. Poussier praised the atmospheric music, as well as the \"well-handed\" education despite lamenting that the encyclopedia would have been more paletable had its walls of text been sprinkled with some images.\n\nThe game received the Golden CD-ROM award in France, and various other international awards. According to Arxel Tribe, the game's release saw the developer become recognized for its \"author games\", which had beautiful graphics and scenario depth. The game turned out to be Arxel Tribe's prelude; it was followed by the company's \"international breakthrough\" hit \"Ring\" (1998), based on an opera by Richard Wagner, which would sell 600,000 copies. \"Ring\"s game engine was based on the one created for \"Pilgrim\"; therefore the titles had a similar architecture and design.\n\nAfter the release of \"Pilgrim\", Paulo Coelho decided to use this collaboration and newfound interest in interactive entertainment as the inspiration behind a recurring plot point in his 1998 novel \"Veronika Decides to Die\", which was released the same year as \"Pilgrim\" sequel \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\". In \"Veronika Decides to Die,\" the suicidal Ljubljana-born heroine reads an article in the French magazine \"Homme\" about a computer game developed in Slovenia and written by Coelho\".\" There are many references to \"Pilgrim\" and Coelho's thoughts on the experience throughout the book; the following passage illustrates this:After \"Pilgrim\", it was decided that the \" fruitful collaboration\" between Arxel Tribe and Coelho would continue; this resulted in the creation of two more games set in the Medieval Middle East, creating an adventure trilogy. \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\", also known as \"The Prophet's Trail\", (and called \"The Legend of As-Sayf: The Prophet and the Assasin\" during the development stage), is sometimes referred to as \"Pilgrim II\"; it is however less a direct sequel and more an \"entirely new story about the same era as seen from another perspective\", which carries over into the third game \"The Secrets of Alamut\". Described by Guillaume de Fondaumiere as a \"kind of continuation\", the game takes place 50 years after the events witnessed in \"Pilgrim\", although the game explores many of the same themes. Just Adventure noted that when the sequel was released in North America, \"Pilgrim\" still had not been, so there was no point in marketing the game as \"Pilgrim II\". In some releases the two games are considered \"Part 1\" and \"Part 2\" of the \"Legend\" series, with the bundled release also known as \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\". Throughout The Paul Coelho trilogy, \"Pilgrim\" protagonist Simon de Lancroix evolves from a \"young, sense-seeking\" person to someone who has \"matured to a prophet, although not loved by everyone\", according to Adventure-Archiv. However, Damien Poussier of \"Hardcore Gaming 101\" argues that while Simon de Lancroix is mentioned in the sequel, the name is not referring to the same character from \"Pilgrim\". The Lancroix of the sequels is a European prophet who wanted to construct an oasis of peace called Jébus. The three titles which would form a collection; (alongside \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\" (2000) and \"The Secrets of Alamut\" (2001), which continued the story, the three games would be collectively be known as The Paulo Coelho trilogy).\n\nGuillaume de Fondaumiere later said that while he was proud of the game, it was not particularly impressive by the standards of the time. Many of the crew for this game would work together on other projects. 20 and 14 members of the creative team collaborated on \"Faust: Seven Games of the Soul\" (1999) and \"The Legend of the Prophet and the Assassin\" (2000 – also written by Coelho), respectively. Arxel Tribe would develop fifteen games, which would mostly share a series of common aspects: educational adventure games, set in specific historic times, and inspired by real or mythological events. Arxel Tribe would eventually be renamed Art Rebel, and create the graphic production and modeling for French video game developer White Birds Productions.\n\n"}
{"id": "59180409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59180409", "title": "Rajgruha", "text": "Rajgruha\n\nRajgruha (Marathi: राजगृह) is a memorial and home of B. R. Ambedkar in Hindu colony of Dadar in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. It was named \"Rajgriha\" (now Rajgir) in the memory of the ancient Buddhist kingdom. This historic monument is a three-storeyed building, the ground floor of the house is a museum. The photographs and ashes of Babasaheb Ambedkar are open to visitors here. This place is holy site for Indians especially Ambedkarite Buddhists and Dalits. Ambedkar lived in 'Rajgruha' for nearly 15-20 years. \n\nMillions of people and his followers (especially \"Ambedkarite Buddhists and dalits\") have come here to showcase the mansions before the Chaitya Bhoomi in Shivaji Park on 6th December. It was a plan to make a national monument, but it was not possible due to some legal and technical issues. Ambedkar had collected more than 50,000 books at the Rajgaura. This was the largest personal library in the world at that time. In 2013, the house of the mansion became a heritage monument.\n\nBabasaheb Ambedkar's early days went into a very poor state. After barrister, he started to practice law. And in the short run he became famous as a smart lawyer. And after 1930, their financial condition was improving. Ambedkar's office was near Damodar Hall in Parel. Since the number of people to meet him increased ambedkars house at paybadevi seemed small to accommodate such that it couldn't even accommodate his books. So he decided to build a new house for themselves. When Ambedkar was standing his own building, he had prepared a plan for himself to have a library. He tried his best to have the characteristics of the best libraries he had seen abroad. In that structure, two blocks of three to three rooms were built on the ground floor of the Rajagruha. In those two blocks, he had arranged for his family's living arrangements. On the first floor of the royal house, Babasaheb had arranged his own personal library and office along with his own convenience. He had prepared his own plan and arranged it accordingly.\n\nIn 1930, he owned 99th and 129th numbered two plots of each of 55 square yard area in the Hindu colony of Dadar, Mumbai. On the plot of 129th Street in the fifth lane, decided to build a house to live with his family, while building a rented building on the 99th plot in the third lane. He got loan from Central Bank of India for construction and started construction immediately. The work of supervising the construction of Mr. Aaiskar has been appointed. In January of 1931, the construction of the building on the 129th plot was started. It was completed in 1933 and construction of the house of 'Rajgruha' was built. Construction of another building on plot number 99 started in 1932. After completion of the construction, they named the building as \"Char Minar\". The name 'Rajgruha' was related to Buddhist culture and Hindu culture, whereas the name 'Char Minar' was related to Muslim culture. Construction of the building completed in 1933. In 1933, Babasaheb Ambedkar, along with his family, had come to live in his Rajgruha. B. R. Ambedkar, his wife Ramabai (son), Yashwant, Laxmibai (wife of his brother), Mukund (nephew) etc. lived in the Rajgruha. Ambedkar had more than 50,000 books in the Rajgruha, that time Rajgruha was the largest personal library in the world. Later on 9 May 1941, he sold the \"Char Minar\" building to pay for the purchase of books and loan of other things. However, they kept the house of Rajgruha for a permanent possession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5168480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168480", "title": "Religion in Luxembourg", "text": "Religion in Luxembourg\n\nThere are many active religions in Luxembourg.\n\nAs of 2008, 72.4% of Luxembourg's population adhere to forms of Christianity (68.7% are Catholics, 1.8% are Protestants, while 1.9% adhere to other Christian denominations, especially Orthodox Christianity). 2.6% of the population follow non-Christian religions. 25% of the population do not have a religion.\n\nSince 1979 it has been illegal for the government to collect statistics on religious beliefs or practices.\n\nAccording to a 2010 Pew Research Center study 70.4% are Christian, 2.3% Muslim, 26.8% Unaffiliated and 0,5% other religions.\n\nAccording to the most recent Eurobarometer Poll 2005,\n\n\nLuxembourg is a secular state, but the Grand Duchy recognises and supports several denominations, in exchange for which, the state is allowed a hand in their affairs. This status, first afforded to the Catholic Church, stems from Napoleon's Concordat of 1801, the principles of which have continued to apply to Luxembourg, despite its separation from France in 1815 and its subsequent Dutch ownership.\n\nDespite having the same roots as France's official position of \"laïcité\", Luxembourg's approach to religion has taken a different direction in the past 200 years, reducing the separation of church and state, not increasing it. The state currently recognises the Catholic Church, Judaism, Greek and Russian Orthodox Christianity, and Protestantism as officially mandated religions. In 2003, representatives of Islam, Anglicanism, and Romanian and Serbian Orthodox Christianity engaged in discussions to be conferred similar status. A process began in the mid-2000s in which increasingly the tight entanglement between church and state in Luxembourg was questioned. This was partially stimulated by several events, such as the debate on Catholic Church sexual abuse or the Grandduke's religiously motivated refusal to sign a euthanasia bill adopted by Parliament. This led to the 2007 formation of an alliance of eight organisations, who made the separation of church and state their goal. In 2010, a petition was launched under the name of \"Trennung.lu\" (\"Separation.lu\"), that demanded the separation of church and state in Luxembourg. It was supported by, amongst others, the youth wings of several political parties. The Allianz vun Humanisten, Atheisten an Agnostiker, founded in 2010, became one of the most vocal advocates of secularism in Luxembourg.\n\nIn January 2015, the government concluded a new convention with the recognised religions, regrouping the Greek, Romanian, Serbian and Russian Orthodox Churches in one Orthodox Church in Luxembourg, represented by the Metropolitan Archbishop of Belgium, Exarch of the Low Countries and Luxembourg, under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, and adding the Anglican Church and the Muslim Community of the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg to the list of recognised religions. This convention has not yet entered into force, however. Moreover, seven non-religious organisations demanded a say in the negotiations about the future financing of religions by the state and the continuation of religion classes in public schools, both of which they demanded to be abolished.\n\nCatholicism is the most practised religion in Luxembourg. Luxembourg was a major centre for Christianity during the Middle Ages, Catholicism was sustained through the Reformation by the hierarchy, buildings, and traditions established in the preceding centuries. The Catholic Church has received state support since 1801.\n\nProtestantism was outlawed in Luxembourg until 1768. By 1815, Luxembourg had small populations of Lutherans, Calvinists, and Waldensians. In 1885, there were 1,100 recorded Protestants out of 213,000 inhabitants of Luxembourg, that is 0.516%. By 1914, there were more than 6,000, or approximately 2.3%. Today it's 3%.\n\nProtestantism is a minority religion in Luxembourg. They are divided across several Protestant churches and creeds, including Lutheranism, Calvinism, Anglicanism, and diverse Evangelical Protestant churches. The largest Protestant churches in the Grand Duchy are the Protestant Church of Luxembourg (\"PKL\"), Protestant Reformed Church of Luxembourg (\"PRKL\"), Evangelical Church in Germany, Church of England, and Protestant Church in the Netherlands. The state has supported the PKL since 1894 and the PRKL since 1982.\n\nIn Luxembourg there is about 10,000 to 12,000 Muslims (est. 2009), who represent 2.2% of the total population. In addition, hundreds of Muslims come to work in Luxembourg every workday. According to a 2009 Pew Research Center report, approximately 13,000 Muslims in Luxembourg.\n\nThere are six mosques in Luxembourg as well as one multi-use room for Muslims, none of which have minarets. Many Luxembourgian Muslims pray in mosques in France, Belgium or Germany. Most Muslims have origins in the Balkans (Bosniaks and Albanians approximately 60%), while Arab and other Muslim countries represent about 20%. Sub-Saharan Muslims account for about 5%, and 15% are other Europeans.\n\nLuxembourg's Jewish community dates back at least as far as the 13th century, making Judaism the minority religion that has been practised the longest in Luxembourg. Today, Luxembourg's Jews number approximately 1,200, of whom, 650 practise actively. There are very few Orthodox Jews in Luxembourg. During the Holocaust, 1,945 Jewish Luxembourgers were killed, out of a pre-war population of 3,500. Judaism is supported by the state.\n\nIn the 2000s, surveys showed an increasing share of the population no longer feels connected to Catholicism. In 2002, 94% was still formally Catholic, but in 2008, 25% of the Luxembourgers said they did not belong to any religion. A lot of people were increasingly estranged by the Church's belief system, and yet were still members of it, solidifying the current situation. This caused both the association \"Liberté de conscience\" (\"Freedom of Conscience\") and the Internet portal \"sokrates.lu\" to launch the website \"Fraiheet.lu\" (\"Freedom.lu\") in 2009, to inform citizens about the options for religious disaffiliation.\n\nThis secularisation, combined with the struggle to separate church and state, eventually led to the foundation of the Allianz vun Humanisten, Atheisten an Agnostiker in the spring of 2010. It intended to unite the hitherto scattered organised activities by humanist, atheist, agnostic, skeptical and secularist thinking people into one force. The foundation was also explicitly welcomed by, amongst others, politicians from several parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "36606968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36606968", "title": "Religion in Mauritania", "text": "Religion in Mauritania\n\nThe people of Mauritania are nearly all adherents of Sunni Islam of Maliki school of jurisprudence, influenced with Sufism. Mauritania is a country in Africa, bordering Algeria, Mali, Senegal, and the Western Sahara (currently controlled by Morocco). Officially, 100% of the country's citizens are Muslim, although there is a small community of Christians, mainly of foreign nationality. The two largest Sufi Muslim tariqas in Mauritania are Tijaniyyah and Qadiriyya. Because of the ethnic and tribal divisions in the country, religion is seen by the government as essential for national unity.\n\nThere are around 4,500 Roman Catholics in the country of foreign origin. There are also a few adherents of Judaism working in the country.\n\nIt was trade with Muslim merchants that brought Islam into the region, in the 8th century.\n\nThe Almoravid dynasty rose to power in the western Maghreb during the 11th century, and prosletyzed Islam throughout the region. Members of the Gadala Berbers brought back the theologian Abdallah ibn Yasin from Mecca in 1035, where they traveled for the hajj, to expunge the paganism still prevalent in Mauritania. Although Islam had existed in the region prior to the Almoravids, Almoravid rule accelerated the spread of Islam and removed animist influences on local Islamic practices. Ibn Yasin's strict interpretation of Islam alienated many of the Berbers, and the theologian was expelled. Undaunted, he accumulated a devoted following of loyal believers and an army, the foundation of the Almoravid dynasty. ibn Yasin's military expansion converted tribe members of the Gadala, Lemtuma, and Messufa Berbers of the region to Islam. The capture of Sijilmasa and Aoudaghost, important cities in the Trans-Saharan trade, allowed them to dominate the trade routes of the Sahara. The Almoravids converted the Berbers inhabiting modern-day Mauritania to the Maliki school of Sunni Islam, which remains dominant in Mauritania to this day.\n\nibn Yasin was succeeded by Abu Bakr ibn Umar, a chieftain of the Lamtuna Berbers. Fighting between the Lemtuma and Messufa led ibn Umar to declare a holy war against the Ghana Empire to unify the tribes against a common enemy. The war, which lasted for fourteen years, spread Islam to the members of the Soninke people, founders of Ghana. The political influence of the Almoravids waned as the dynasty declined, but Islamic adherence was firmly cemented in the country.\n\nThe political influence of the Kunta tribe between the 16th and 18th centuries bolstered the popularity of Qadiri Sufism in the region. Between the 16th and 18th centuries, declaration of jihads by Muslim theologians pushed for the establishment of Islamic governance in West Africa. In the 17th century, Nasir al-Din led a jihad in Mauritania, drawing support from Berbers frustrated with the corruption of the region's Arab rulers.\n\nThe French colonial empire expanded into Mauritania by the 19th century. The West African jihads were brought to an end, following crackdowns by British and French colonists. In an effort to thwart militarism and threats of rebellion, French colonial administrators encouraged the influence of zaqiya, the religious tribes of Mauritania, over hassan, Mauritania's warrior tribes.\n\nThe country declared its independence in 1960 and established itself as an Islamic Republic. Independence brought Moktar Ould Daddah into power, who promoted Islam during his rule. A military coup d'état ousted Daddah in 1978. Colonel Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidalla, one of the participants of the coup, became head of the government in 1980, and implemented Sharia law. Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya, successor of Ould Haidalla, reversed some of these changes, but was ousted in a military coup in 2005.\n\nPolitical Islam, or Islamism, was introduced in the region during the 1970s. The instability that followed the coup that deposed Daddah invited elements of the Muslim Brotherhood, Wahabbism, and Tablighi Jamaat. The Islamists united as a political party in the 1980s, but were politically repressed starting in 1994. Government pressure on Islamist organizations continued throughout the 2000s. Funding by Saudi Arabia and other Gulf monarchies supported the establishment of Islamic schools, centers, and charities around the country, but were largely shut down by the government in 2003. In 2005, Islamists were arrested and accused of terrorism. Of the original eighty arrested, eighteen remained in prison by 2006.\n\nIslam is by far the largest and most influential religion in the country, and has been since the 10th century. According to government census, 100% of the country's citizens are Muslim. Like much of North Africa, Mauritanians follow the Maliki school of Islam.\n\nIslam is the state religion, and sharia is used as the basis of judicial decisions. The five member High Council of Islam determines the compatibility of secular laws with Islamic laws.\n\nIn Mauritania, religious and secular NGOs are granted tax exemption. Based on the sharia stance on apostasy, the government forbids converting Muslims to competing religions. The publication of religious materials that are not Islamic is restricted. Religious education is considered mandatory, but only makes up a small portion of the public school curriculum.\n\nAccording to the Pew Research Center, although social conflict caused by religious hostilities is ranked Low in Mauritania, the amount of government restriction on the practice of religion is ranked High. Mauritania is the twelfth most religiously restrictive country in the world, ranked between Indonesia and Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "47534269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47534269", "title": "Rogelio Ricardo Livieres Plano", "text": "Rogelio Ricardo Livieres Plano\n\nRogelio Ricardo Livieres Plano (August 30, 1945 – August 14, 2015) was a Roman Catholic bishop.\n\nBorn in Argentina, Livieres Plano was ordained to the priesthood in 1978. In 2004, Livieres Plano was appointed bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Ciudad del Este, Paraguay. On September 25, 2014, he was removed from office.\n"}
{"id": "1179452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179452", "title": "Shankaracharya", "text": "Shankaracharya\n\nThe four main Shankaracharya Mathas/Peethas are listed in the following table. Shankaracharya was born in Kaladi near perumbavoor in Kerala. His father name was Shivaguru and his mother was Aryamba. He was born to a Brahmin family. His teacher was Govind Bhagavatpada\nShankaracharya (IAST: \"Śaṅkarācārya\", Shankara acharya) is a commonly used title of heads of monasteries called mathas in the Advaita Vedanta tradition. The title derives from Adi Shankara, an 8th-century AD reformer of Hinduism. He is honored as \"Jagadguru\", a title that was used earlier only to Krishna.\n\nThe popular view among historians is that there were four Mathas or Peethas (religious orders):\n\n\nIt is believed that after establishing the above four mathas and appointing his four disciples as head of these mathas, Adi Shankara established a fifth matha at Kanchipuram and became the head of that matha till his life time. This fifth matha is called Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham\nThe table below gives an overview of the four Amnaya Mathas founded by Adi Shankara, and their details.\n\nShankaracharya is also seen as an avatar of Shiva (Shankara). Shankaracharya is responsible for founding many \"punyakshetras\" along the length and breadth of India, by taming avatars of Parvati and imprisoning her essence in Sri Chakras.\n\nAdi Shankaracharya wished to grace the Indian subcontinent by establishing four major mathas in the four corners of the peninsula – north (Jyothirmath), south (Sringeri), east (Puri), west (Dwaraka) – to propagate the philosophy of advaita vedanta and to promulgate the concept of \"Sanatana dharma\", thus establishing dharma or righteousness, as the way of life of people. His primary four disciples took charges of each math and thus established a strong Guru-Sishya \"parampara\" (a lineage of masters-disciples) in every math, that continues to guide people to this day.\n\n\nŚivābhinava Nṛsiṁha Bhāratī]], Śaṅkarācārya of Śṛṅgeri\n\n\n[[Category:Titles and occupations in Hinduism]]\n[[Category:Religious leadership roles]]\n[[Category:Shankaracharyas| ]]"}
{"id": "54111890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54111890", "title": "Sikhism in China", "text": "Sikhism in China\n\nSikhs in China are a religious minority in the People's Republic of China. Sikhism originated from the Punjab region of northern India. \n\nDuring the 1800s and 1900s, many Sikh Punjabi people were recruited from British India to work as officers for the Shanghai Municipal Police and Hong Kong Police.\n\nThere are a small number of gurdwara (Sikh temples) in China:\n\n"}
{"id": "56922080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56922080", "title": "Sister-books", "text": "Sister-books\n\nSister-books () is the term for a group of texts in the medieval literature. These works were written by Dominican nuns in the first half of the fourteenth century in South Germany and Switzerland. They relate the mystical experiences of sisters within the monastery, and were influential in the development of medieval mysticism.\n\nSome of the sister-books begin with a brief, mostly legendary, outlines of the founding history of the monastery, but less attention is paid to the historical facts than to the sentiments and heroic actions of founders. The central content of the books consists of reports on the lives of deceased members of the convent. The sister-books depict not only convent sisters, but also lay nuns and sometimes also men associated with the convent. The presentation usually concentrates on those events in which the subject has acted in an exemplary manner, especially through visions or mystical experiences. Occasionally, the reverse is also shown, when a person's failure or the loss of graces is reported. Essential aspects of the monastic as well as the individual religious life come up, along with current theological problems from questions of monastic obedience to the doctrine of grace and the Trinity dogma. Other themes include co-suffering with Christ and the question of the soul.\n\nThe sister-books are a type of medieval lives literature, in which each work relates the lives of a number of people. These descriptions focus on the person's relationship to God and their behavior in the monastic community. This genre of writing was similar to the Vitae Fratrum of male Dominican orders, which in turn was heavily influenced by the Vitae Patrum, a collection of sayings from early Christian monks. The sister-books are also characterized by both the forms and structures of legendary narrative and the vocabulary and motifs of mysticism; the texts take images and metaphors quite seriously. In addition, note that all but one of the sister-books were written in the German vernacular, while the Unterlinden sister-book was written in Latin. None of the original manuscripts of the sister-books survive to this day; scholars rely on later copies, some of which were done as early as the fifteenth century. \n\nWhile the sister-books were often devalued as products of naive nuns and as an expression of a flattened mysticism in earlier scholarship, today they find new attention as authentic testimonies of a women's monastic writing culture. Since only men were permitted to write theological treatises, highly educated women turned to narrative forms, especially in the form of vision narratives, to explain or discuss concepts of religious thought and action.\n\nAt the same time, these books are important documents for the history of German mysticism. They show that mysticism in women's monasteries was not just a consequence of Dominican preaching; rather, it preceded it in some monasteries. In the discourse on women's religious experiences, Meister Eckhart, Johannes Tauler, Heinrich Seuse and others developed their mystical theology and pastoral care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40115618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40115618", "title": "Sompura Salat", "text": "Sompura Salat\n\nSompura Salat are a Hindu Brahmin community of Gujarat, which have branched off from Sompura Brahmin community. They are also found in southern Rajasthan, specially in the Mewar region. Their origin is said to be from Prabhas Patan famous for the Somnath temple. The term \"salat\" is derived from Shilavat, the old term for a temple architect.\n\nThey are group of people, who took artistic and masonry works as an occupation and branched off from Sompura Brahmin community. They are considered as Brahmin community and have surnames like; Trivedi, Dave, Raval, Vyas, Acharya, Shukla, Bhatt etc. However, Sompura Brahmin do not accept them as Brahmins. They maintain clan exogamy as a strict rule for marriage. \n\nThe community is vegetarian in diet and also avoid eating onions, garlic, white cucumber and lentils. They worship Ashapura Mata as their clan deity. They are basically a Shivaite community and worship Shiva as chief deity, however, also observe all other Hindu festivals like Uthasini, Ramanavami, Janamashtmi, Holi, Diwali but Shivaratri and Navaratri are the main festival for the community.\n\nThey are specialized in masonry works, artistic carvings and sculpting as well as artistic stone shaping works, especially in works of idol-making. Among the notable architecture built by them are Hawa Mahal, the royal palace near Wadhwan built for the Sultanate of Gujarat and more recently the Somnath Temple built after independence of India.\n\nThe community is found thorough out Gujarat but largely concentrated in Saurashtra region.\nOutside India, population is found in United Kingdom and United States of America.\n\nPrabhashankar Oghadbhai of Palitana, had been one of the leading designers of Nagar style of temples. He was awarded Padmashri. The design and building of the modern Somnath Temple, known as Somnath Maha Meru Prasad, was executed by him. While their center of activity is in Gujarat and Rajasthan, they now undertake temple architecture in different part of India, as well as overseas. They follow texts written in 15th century such as Prasad Manjari, written during the rule of Rana Raimal by brothers Mandan and Nathji. They originally hailed from Patan, Gujarat and were invited to settle in Chittorgarh. During the past five centuries they have been involved in building and restoration of numerous Jain temples in Gujarat and southern Rajasthan, as well as temples built by Jains from there regions in other parts of India.\n\nIn 1992, Chandrakant Sompura, grandson of Prabhashankar had designed the Sompura Akshardham temple in Gandhinagar. He was asked by Ashok Singhal, chief of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, to design and build the Ram Janmabhoomi temple.\n\nThe world's largest Ram Temple, a proposed replica of Angkor Wat to be built in Champaran, Bihar, is being designed by Piyush Sompura\n\nC.P. Trivedi and Sons, founded by Chandulal P. Trivedi from the Sompura clan, were responsible for the restoration of the Delwara Jain temples and the Jain temples at Jaisalmer Fort and the Amar Sagar lake. They also designed the Kirti Stumbh at Hutheesing Wadi in Ahmedabad, Oswal Jain Temple at Nairobi, Kenya, Jain Center, Leicester, UK,Atma Vallabh Smarak, Delhi, and the Global Vipassana Pagoda at Gorai in northwest Mumbai.\nHitesh Sompura in Mumbai is a qualified Architect from Mumbai who computerised and revolutionised Temple Architecture by writing English book \"You & Architecture\" and making many short documentary films explaining about Indian Temple Architecture.\nAwarded the “Best Architecture Award 2007” at London in 2007, built the first ever traditional Shikharbandhi Jain Temple in Europe, Rajesh Sompura is now having more than 35 glorious projects standing tall in India, UK, USA, Singapore, Bangkok, Nairobi and Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "2397262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2397262", "title": "Taoist music", "text": "Taoist music\n\nThe importance of music in Taoist ceremony is demonstrated by revealing how central beliefs are reflected through elements of music such as pandas, instrumentation and rhythm. The ritual celebrating the birth of Guanyin was observed at the Evergreen Taoist Church of Australia, Deagon to identify structure, role of participants, music forms and instrumentation. Expression of spiritual beliefs through music enables followers of Taoism to enhance their path to enlightenment.\n\nMusic has long played an integral part in religious ceremonies. In Taoist ceremonies, music has several different functions. Taoists believe that music is a way to speak to the gods, to inspire religious followers and to achieve inner harmony, bringing the listener or participant closer to Tao. Tao is the path to enlightenment, the goal of all followers of the Taoist faith. To follow Tao is to recognise the inner harmony and balance in all living things. This belief is often represented in the Yin Yang symbol. In the ceremony witnessed at the Evergreen Taoist Church of Australia, Deagon, the birth of Quan Yin, the goddess of mercy was celebrated. Music and instrumentation played a central role in this ritual. The priests sung each chant and prayer to their gods, and accompanied these on musical instruments. The musical expression of a Taoist ceremony supports the core beliefs of the religion. Firstly, the role of music in the ceremony will be described, showing its religious importance to Taoism. Secondly, this relates the structure of the birth of Quan Yin ceremony to the achievement of Tao. The principal doctrines of Taoism and the roles of the various participants in the ceremony will also be described. Following this, the demeanour of participants and the physical setting of the ceremony will be illustrated. Studying the role of music in Taoist ceremony will demonstrate the importance of music in religion as a means to inspire followers, improve and deepen faith, and enable communication with gods. Describing how the music in the ceremony witnessed communicates and confirms the belief systems of Taoism will reveal music is as intrinsic to the Taoist as the path of Tao itself.\n\nTaoism or Daoism, as it is commonly referred to, is an ancient Chinese religion and philosophy. Taoism can be traced to a 6th-century B.C. scripture written by Lao Tzu, the Tao Te Ching (Verellen, 1995). Tao Te Ching translates into the classic of the way and its virtue . The writings of the Tao Te Ching support passive behaviour and promote natural harmony with nature. The main underlying theme to the writings is the value of wu-wei, (non-striving) “by which one returns to a primitive state closer to the Tao”. (Duyvendak, Chan, Lau, Mitchell, & Mair, 2005). These writings are considered to be influenced by Buddhist ideals, Confucian philosophy and traditional ancient Chinese mysticism ().\n\nThe priests of the Evergreen Taoist Church of Australia are devotees of an order of Taoism known as the Evergreen Taoist Religious Order (EVTRO). They follow the teachings of the “principal canons” of Taoism (Verellen, 1995). The Taoists of the EVTRO believe in being apart from the need of worldly possessions, and aim at creating a solidarity and harmony between heaven and man. One way in which they hope to achieve this is by giving freely of their time in public ceremonies to help others come closer to their own inner harmony.\n\nIn the Taoist ceremony of the birth of Quan Yin, music was a key component of the service. The entire dialogue of the ritual was intoned or sung by the priests, and these prayers were always accompanied by instrumentation (). The chanting and instrumentation are used by the priests of Taoism as a tool to achieving the Tao (Bowker, 2000). The Tao is described as the way or the path (Park, 2001). Taoists understand that by following the path of Tao and reaching a balance with all things a human can gain self-realization. Music assists the follower on his/her path to the Tao by helping to communicate with gods, reach inner harmony and come closer to finding balance with the world.\n\nThe principal belief of the Yin Yang is reflected in the categorisation of musical tones. The two main forms of Taoist music are the Yin Tone and the Yang Tone (). Yin stands for all things that are female and soft and Yang stands for all things male and hard. Through the proper balance of Yin (female) and Yang (male) a Taoist can find harmony and simplicity in all things (Bowker, 2000). Taoists strive to have these cosmic forces within themselves and around them at peace and in balance (Keown, 2003). \n\nThe Yang tone is used in rituals mainly for the benefit of the priests, spirits and gods ). . The ceremony held to celebrate the birth of the god Quan Yin, one of the deities of Taoism, started with chanting in the Yang tone. The other form, Yin Tone, is music aimed at appeasing and entertaining the general populace. This creates a harmony with the Yang tone, by giving to the people what the Yang tone gives to the gods and priests. Yin tones are usually performed at outer altars to inspire the populace in their beliefs and are livelier and more melodic than Yang tunes (Long, 2005). The ceremony of the birth of Quan Yin consisted of elements of both the Yang tone and the Yin tone. This combination of tones symbolizes the balance Taoists strive to achieve. \n\nThe Yang tones were initially staged in the hall of the three purities. The three purities are the highest deities in Taoism and they are said to reside over the heavens (Murashige, 2005). The ceremony involved three female priests, two of which wore robes of simple red and black and the main priest wore a richly decorated robe of a jade colour. The priests stood in front of the three purities and read from prayer books before them. The priests maintained this formation throughout the entire ceremony until the end, when the main priest led them in single file around each of the altars in the temple to pay their respects to the other gods.\n\nThe ceremony started with the three priests chanting in a mono syllabic, often repeated phrase with only slight melodic deviation from the tonic. The melodic deviation was rising in a pentatonic style chord then dropping in similar pentatonic step wise motion until the melody arrived back at the tonic, in a wave type phrase (Figure 2). Most melodic phrases in the ceremony ended in descending tones, heading back to the tonic (to gain harmony and balance, like yin-yang) before starting the next phrase. Later on, as the ceremony was finishing off, the music strayed from the Yang Tone and headed more towards the Yin tone. The priests made their way around the temple to the other places of worship and the forecourt, for the purpose of the general populace observing the ritual. The prayers in this section were still somewhat intoned. More melodic phrasing was heard and the rhythms became faster and more syncopated. These rhythms, syncopations and melodic ideas all relate to the core belief of Taoism, balance and harmony. \n\nThe demeanour and interaction between the priests and worshippers reflected an air of individual focus. The priests were constantly absorbed on the prayers, chanting, and rhythm and ignored all other matters. Many other worshippers came and went as the ceremony progressed and paid their respects to the three purities and the two adjoining altars on either side of the main altar, at which the ceremony was held. The worshippers made no appearance of solemnity towards the ceremony and came and went as they pleased, leaving incense offerings and praying. In the following of Tao, each of these worshippers had their own inner harmony and this in no way intruded on the Tao of the ceremony, or the Tao of the priests.\n\nThe priests in the ceremony used a variety of instruments. The main priest used hand movements and ritual objects influenced by Chinese mysticism. These gestures are used in Yang tone ceremonies in combination with magical instruments (). Magical instruments are believed to manifest magical powers during rituals. The Yang tone is mainly played with magical instruments such as the Qing (metal bowl) and the Faqi (ritual percussion section). The Faqi often consisted of large drums, bells, and wooden fish blocks called Muyu (Jones, 2005). These are played to help mediation and to compliment the ritual actions of the priests (Hong, 2005). The musical instruments used in this ceremony, the Qing and the Muyu, are said to be indispensable (Hong, 2005). These are also used to set the time of the chanting and to add to the religious atmosphere. Through most of the parts of the ceremony a steady beat on the Muyu (Figure 5) and Qing (Figure 4) accompanied the chanting, with sections between prayers ending with a syncopated rhythm of the Qing and Muyu (Figure 3).\n\nMusic has been established as a key element of Taoist ceremony. By examining the role of music in Taoist rituals, it is evident that instrumentation and vocalisation play central roles. The structure of the event has been shown to symbolise the balance ideal of Taoism. The core concept of Yin-Yang balance has been revealed as a theme that is acknowledged in areas of ceremony such as intonation, melodic deviation, rhythm and form. The conduct of the various participants and the setting of the ceremony have also been outlined. By examining the ceremony of the birth of Quan Yin, at the Evergreen Taoist Church of Australia, it is clear that music is used to guide its followers and practitioners on their path to universal harmony. In the balanced philosophy of Taoism without music there would only be silence, solitary, alone and unbalanced.\n\n"}
{"id": "7138005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7138005", "title": "The Jewish Advocate", "text": "The Jewish Advocate\n\nThe Jewish Advocate is a weekly Jewish newspaper serving Greater Boston and the New England area. It was established in 1902, and is the oldest continuously-circulated English-language Jewish newspaper in the United States. Before May 28, 1909, it was briefly known as \"The Jewish Home Journal\" and then as \"The Boston Advocate\".\n\nBased in downtown Boston, in the former \"Boston Post\" daily newspaper building (which, in its cellars four stories underground, still contains the century-old pulleys-and-lifts system equipment for the publishing presses of those days) overlooking what was known in the late 19th and early 20th centuries as \"newspaper row\", \"The Jewish Advocate\" has published weekly every week since its founding over one hundred fifteen years ago. The paper is the primary Jewish newspaper for the Greater Boston and Eastern Massachusetts metropolitan area, and for much of New England, with subscribers in all 50 states and 14 foreign countries. It is available both in paper form and online.\n\n\"The Advocate\" was founded by Theodor Herzl, Austrian journalist and founder of modern political Zionism. Having founded the Vienna newspaper \"Die Welt\" and the First Zionist Congress in Basel in 1897, Herzl sent his executive secretary Jacob de Haas to Boston several years later to start a newspaper which would \"inculcate Judaism into the community and progress the cause of the re-establishment of the Jewish faith and a Jewish state.\" The paper has been owned by only two families since that time.\n\nIn 1917 de Haas became national executive director of the newly organized Zionist Organization of America at the invitation of Louis D. Brandeis, who had just become president of the ZOA, and ownership of \"The Jewish Advocate\" passed to Alexander Brin, who, as a national reporter for the former \"Boston Traveler\" daily newspaper, had become well-known through his coverage of the Leo Frank case in Atlanta, Georgia. A year later \"The Advocate\" played a leading role in supporting the appointment of Brandeis as the first Jewish justice on the Supreme Court of the United States, and nearly thirty years later in the establishment of Brandeis University.\n\nThrough the next years Jewish population in Boston boomed and \"The Advocate\" became a household companion in virtually every Jewish home. In the years before the Holocaust \"The Jewish Advocate\", virtually alone among the media, warned of the coming of Hitler and the great danger which that would pose for the Jewish people.\n\nSubsequently the paper played an important leading role in uniting the nascent Jewish organizations that helped to rebuild the lives of Jewish refugees and establish the new State of Israel. This was the defining role of \"The Jewish Advocate\" throughout the decades of the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s when the paper was at the forefront of every aspect of the Jewish community's social and religious issues and movements.\n\nIn the years following the 1960s and until today, with subscribers in all 50 states, Israel and 13 other foreign countries, \"The Jewish Advocate\" continues to serve as a primary source of news and information as well as a forum for discussion and debate, providing lines of communication uniting the community and supporting the efforts aimed at reinvigorating and broadening Jewish religious and cultural life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11240682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11240682", "title": "The Paratrooper's Prayer", "text": "The Paratrooper's Prayer\n\nLa Prière du Para (The Paratrooper's Prayer) is a French poem found in the possession of the presumed author, Aspirant (Brevet-Lieutenant) André Zirnheld, upon his death in Libya on June 27, 1942. The Paratrooper's Prayer has been adopted by all French Metropolitan and Marine Infantry Paratrooper Units and Regiments except for the parachutist of the French Foreign Legion who have their own poem, as well as the Portuguese Paratroopers.\nThe Prayer appears before A. J. Quinnell's novel \"Man on Fire\", the main protagonist of which is an ex-paratrooper in the Legion. This prayer also appears in Lt. Col. Dave Grossman's book, \"\" and \"Rogue Heroes\" by Ben Macintyre.\n\nThe Prayer of the Paratrooper\n<poem>\nI'm asking You God, to give me what You have left.\nGive me those things which others never ask of You.\nI don't ask You for rest, or tranquility.\nNot that of the spirit, the body, or the mind.\nI don't ask You for wealth, or success, or even health.\nAll those things are asked of You so much Lord,\nthat you can't have any left to give.\nGive me instead Lord what You have left.\nGive me what others don't want.\nI want uncertainty and doubt.\nI want torment and battle.\nAnd I ask that You give them to me now and forever Lord,\nso I can be sure to always have them,\nbecause I won't always have the strength to ask again.\nBut give me also the courage, the energy,\nand the spirit to face them.\nI ask You these things Lord,\nbecause I can't ask them of myself.\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "1136584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1136584", "title": "The Perfect Matrimony", "text": "The Perfect Matrimony\n\nThe Perfect Matrimony, or The Door to Enter Into Initiation, is the first of approximately seventy books written by Samael Aun Weor. It was first published in 1950 then revised and amplified in 1961.\n\nIt describes the esoteric teachings of alchemy, tantra, kabbalah, the mysteries of the Maya, Aztecs, ancient Egyptians, Tibetans, and Essenes, among others. The sexual aspect of religion is stressed in every religion it covers, stating bluntly that “the topic of this book is exclusively Sexual Magic.”\nSexual magic is explained as the synthesis of all religion. From the introduction of the 1960 edition:\n\nThe author presents a wide selection of religion and mystery schools from esoteric viewpoints, highlighting data traditionally thought to be unimportant, or otherwise understood in an unrelated manner. The primary message is that upright sexuality, exemplified through sexual magic, is the cornerstone upon which all authentic religion, yoga and occultism is based.\n\n\"The Perfect Matrimony\" is a discourse on how to transform the sexual energy into its superior aspects via sexual transmutation. It states that there are three types of Sexual Magic, or Tantra: Black, Grey, and White. Black Tantra involves the ejaculation of semen, and Grey Tantra sometimes concludes with orgasm or ejaculation, while White Tantra always opposes any loss of sexual energy whatsoever, in other words, without orgasm or ejaculation. It exclusively advocates White Tantra as the path to achieve “self-realization” and to “achieve cosmic consciousness.” This system of classification is not found in any of the traditional Tantric texts, however it is also true that tantra yoga has been historically \"gupta vidya\", or esoteric knowledge not contained in books.\n\nSexual magic is explained to be the same as maithuna, sexual yoga, urdhvareta yoga.\n\n\"The Perfect Matrimony\" also states that Jesus was married and practiced sexual yoga with his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "1491513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1491513", "title": "Tridev Roy", "text": "Tridev Roy\n\nRaja Tridiv Roy (; ; sometimes spelled Tridev Roy, (14 May 1933 – 17 September 2012) was the former 50th Raja of the Chakma tribe in the Chittagong Hill Tracts region of present-day Bangladesh from 2 May 1953, until his abdication in 1971 following the Bangladesh Liberation War. He chose to remain a Pakistani when Bangladesh achieved independence in 1971. He became known as a writer, diplomat, Buddhist religious leader and politician in Pakistan. Between 1981 and 1995, he served as Ambassador of Pakistan to Argentina with concurrent accreditation in Chile, Uruguay, Peru and Ecuador. He was also a Minister-For-Life within the Pakistani government. Tridev Roy died in September 2012.\n\nRoy was born in 1933 in Rajbari, Rangamati, Chittagong Hill Tracts, British India. He was the son of Raja Nalinaksha Roy.\n\nHe was installed as the 50th Raja, or hereditary King of the Chakma Circle, on 2 May 1953. Roy abdicated the throne 1971 in favour of his son, Raja Devasish Roy, the current ruler of the Chakma people, during the Bangladesh Liberation War. Roy remained a practicing Buddhist, the predominant faith of the Chakma people, throughout his life.\n\nDespite being heavily non-Muslim, the Chittagong Hill Tracts were awarded to Pakistan (specifically East Pakistan) by the British during the 1947 partition of India. The Chakmas and other people of the hill tracts had favored union with India instead of Pakistan. Initially granted special autonomy, the status of the region was changed by the Pakistani government during the 1950s to allow the settlement of large numbers of largely non-indigenous, Muslim Bengali settlers into the region. The Pakistani government also opened a hydro-electric dam, the Kaptai Dam in the early 1960s, which flooded about 40% of the Chakmas' available arable land. However, the Chakmas under Tridev Roy chose to remain neutral during the 1960s and 1970s as relations between the Pakistani Army and Mukti Bahini, which fought for Bangladeshi independence.\n\nIn 1970, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the head of the Awami League and future founder of Bangladesh, asked Roy to run for Parliament as a member of the Awami League. Roy declined Rahman's offering, choosing instead to run in the 1970 general election as an independent. Roy won his election as independent candidate from his constituency in the Chittagong Hill Tracts.\n\nRoy sided with Pakistan in 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War, which resulted in Bangladesh's independence. Following the war and Bangladesh's independence, Roy chose to move from the former East Pakistan to West Pakistan, where he resided for the rest of his life. Roy feared political persecution if he remained in Bangladesh after the country's independence, which led to his decision to move to Pakistan. He also felt that the new Bangladeshi government would no longer guarantee the special autonomous status of the Chittagong Hill Tracts. He abdicated as the Raja of the Chakmas in 1971 in favor of his son, Raja Debashish Roy, when he went into exile. The government of Pakistan made Roy a lifetime federal minister for his loyalty to the government in Islamabad during the war.\n\nRoy headed a delegation from Pakistan to oppose Bangladesh's application to join the United Nations. The government of Bangladesh, under Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, sent its own delegation to New York to apply for admission led by Tridev Roy's mother Rajmata Benita Roy.\n\nRoy joined the government of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto during the 1970s. Bhutto offered Roy the position of President of Pakistan once he became Prime Minister of Pakistan. However, Roy declined Bhutto's offer of the presidency because, under the new Constitution of Pakistan of 1973, only Muslims can become President of Pakistan. Roy, who called the presidency a \"gilded cage,\" was unwilling to convert from Buddhism to Islam to hold the office. Bhutto was later overthrown by General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq in 1977.\n\nIn 1981, Roy was appointed as Pakistani Ambassador to Argentina by the Zia government, a move which simultaneously removed him from day-to-day involvement in Pakistani politics. He was simultaneously accredited as an ambassador in Chile, Ecuador, Peru and Uruguay and he held these positions until 1995. He later was Pakistan's High Commissioner to Sri Lanka. He remained abroad to abroad until 1996, when he returned to Islamabad. Roy also held the position as a federal minister-for-life within the Pakistani government.\n\nRoy, a leading figure in Pakistan's Buddhist community, headed the Pakistan Buddhist Society from 1996 until his death in 2012. In 2005, the High Commissioner of Sri Lanka, General Srilal Weerasooriya, on behalf of the President, conferred the emblems of the Sri Lankan Ranjana National Award on Federal Minister Tridev Roy for his work on behalf of Pakistan's Buddhist community.\n\nTridiv Roy died from cardiac arrest at his home in Islamabad on 17 September 2012, at the age of 79. He is survived by his wife, Arati Roy, three sons, and two daughters.\n\nThe \"Express Tribune\" published an editorial the day following his death titled \"The Raja who gave away his kingdom\" on the diplomat's political career, excerpts of which are below:\n\nAmong his books, Tridiv Roy published his memoirs entitled, \"The Departed Melody\". The book begins with the history and culture of the people of the Chittagong Hill Tracts and the Chakma Rajas. His other books and publications include \"Collection of Short Stories,\" which was translated to Urdu, and \"South American Diary.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7734094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734094", "title": "Two of Swords", "text": "Two of Swords\n\nTwo of Swords is a Minor Arcana tarot card.\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, Tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\nA female figure sits blindfolded, as she calmly balances two swords across her shoulders. Behind her is a large body of water and above her is the moon.\n\nThe woman's seated position, in combination with the crescent moon, recalls the High Priestess card, and we find a link as well in this card's representation of the characteristic feminine strength of intuition. The woman's blindfold and the sea show a necessity to rely not on immediate stimuli but on deeper thoughts and feelings, that part of the unconscious mind that we call our higher self.\n\nHer seated position, when conceptually paired with the balanced swords and the blindfold, may also recall the Justice card. Yet here the concept of justice is not one of retribution, but of making decisions that are balanced, moral and that we trust to be harmonious within and without ourselves.\n\nUnlike the \"hoodwinked\" woman held captive on the Eight of Swords, this card depicts a woman in control. The scene and the discipline of her pose do more to suggest that she has placed the blindfold on herself, as is done in many cultures, ritualistically, to encourage reliance on the other senses (for example the use of blindfolds in martial arts). \n\nThe woman is blind in her situation, but she is safe, not only unafraid, but centered. She wields powerful weapons, but they are not held in a position that is threatening to her or anyone else. The moon and the sea reinforce this sense of calm and equanimity.\n\nThis is a card of meditation, not of action. The crossed swords point to different possible directions, but for the moment the character is looking inward rather than outward and in the possession of an awesome power that protects her until she finds the direction to apply it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1418332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418332", "title": "Wake (ceremony)", "text": "Wake (ceremony)\n\nA wake is a social gathering associated with death, usually held before a funeral. Traditionally, a wake takes place in the house of the deceased with the body present; however, modern wakes are often performed at a funeral home or another convenient location. In the United States and Canada it is synonymous with a viewing. It is often a social rite that highlights the idea that the loss is one of a social group and affects that group as a whole. \n\nThe term originally referred to a late-night prayer vigil but is now mostly used for the social interactions accompanying a funeral. While the modern usage of the verb \"wake\" is \"become or stay alert\", a \"wake\" for the dead harks back to the vigil, \"watch\" or \"guard\" of earlier times. It is a misconception that people at a wake are waiting in case the deceased should \"wake up\".\n\nThe term \"wake\" was originally used to denote a prayer vigil, often an annual event held on the feast day of the saint to whom a parish church was dedicated. Over time the association with prayer has become less important, although not lost completely, and in many countries a wake is now mostly associated with the social interactions accompanying a funeral.\n\nIt used to be the custom in most Celtic countries in Europe for mourners to keep watch or vigil over their dead until they were buried — this was called a \"wake\". This is still common in Ireland and North-western Scotland.\n\nWith the change to the more recent practice of holding the wake at a funeral home rather than the home, the custom of providing refreshment to the mourners is often held directly after the funeral at the house or another convenient location.\n\nThe wake or the viewing of the body is a prominent part of death rituals in many cultures. This ceremony allows one last interaction with the corpse, providing a time for the living to express their emotions and beliefs about death with the deceased.\n\n\n"}
