{"id": "48694819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48694819", "title": "Adam C Franklin", "text": "Adam C Franklin\n\nAdam Franklin is an Australian author, entrepreneur and social media keynote speaker.\n\nFranklin published \"Web Marketing That Works: Confessions from the Marketing Trenches\" (Wiley 2014) () as a paperback and Kindle ebook with co-author Toby Jenkins and it became an Amazon #1 bestseller in Australia.\n\nHe co-founded his company Bluewire Media with Toby Jenkins in 2005. Franklin featured on \"Smart Company\"'s \"Australia's Hot 30 Under 30\" list of entrepreneurs in 2009. In 2010 he collaborated with David Meerman Scott on the Web Strategy Planning Template which they co-branded. This marketing strategy template was also included in the third, fourth and fifth editions of David Meerman Scott's bestselling book The New Rules of Marketing and PR which has over 350,000 copies in print in more than 25 languages.\n\nHe co-hosts the podcast \"Web Marketing That Works\" and was interviewed on the Entrepreneur On Fire podcast.\n\nIn 2015, Franklin's Bluewire Media blog was named the #1 Business Blog in Australia according to Smart Company and was a Business Finalist for the Best Australian Blogs in 2014 according to the Australian Writers' Centre.\n"}
{"id": "12350846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12350846", "title": "Altman Z-score", "text": "Altman Z-score\n\nThe Z-score formula for predicting bankruptcy was published in 1968 by Edward I. Altman, who was, at the time, an Assistant Professor of Finance at New York University. The formula may be used to predict the probability that a firm will go into bankruptcy within two years. Z-scores are used to predict corporate defaults and an easy-to-calculate control measure for the financial distress status of companies in academic studies. The Z-score uses multiple corporate income and balance sheet values to measure the financial health of a company.\n\nThe Z-score is a linear combination of four or five common business ratios, weighted by coefficients. The coefficients were estimated by identifying a set of firms which had declared bankruptcy and then collecting a matched sample of firms which had survived, with matching by industry and approximate size (assets).\n\nAltman applied the statistical method of discriminant analysis to a dataset of publicly held manufacturers. The estimation was originally based on data from publicly held manufacturers, but has since been re-estimated based on other datasets for private manufacturing, non-manufacturing and service companies.\n\nThe original data sample consisted of 66 firms, half of which had filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 7. All businesses in the database were manufacturers, and small firms with assets of < $1 million were eliminated.\n\nThe original Z-score formula was as follows:\n\nAltman found that the ratio profile for the bankrupt group fell at −0.25 avg, and for the non-bankrupt group at +4.48 avg.\n\nAltman's work built upon research by accounting researcher William Beaver and others. In the 1930s and on, Mervyn and others had collected matched samples and assessed that various accounting ratios appeared to be valuable in predicting bankruptcy. Altman's Z-score is a customized version of the discriminant analysis technique of R. A. Fisher (1936).\n\nWilliam Beaver's work, published in 1966 and 1968, was the first to apply a statistical method, t-tests to predict bankruptcy for a pair-matched sample of firms. Beaver applied this method to evaluate the importance of each of several accounting ratios based on univariate analysis, using each accounting ratio one at a time. Altman's primary improvement was to apply a statistical method, discriminant analysis, which could take into account multiple variables simultaneously.\n\nIn its initial test, the Altman Z-Score was found to be 72% accurate in predicting bankruptcy two years before the event, with a Type II error (false negatives) of 6% (Altman, 1968). In a series of subsequent tests covering three periods over the next 31 years (up until 1999), the model was found to be approximately 80%–90% accurate in predicting bankruptcy one year before the event, with a Type II error (classifying the firm as bankrupt when it does not go bankrupt) of approximately 15%–20% (Altman, 2000).\n\nFrom about 1985 onwards, the Z-scores gained wide acceptance by auditors, management accountants, courts, and database systems used for loan evaluation (Eidleman). The formula's approach has been used in a variety of contexts and countries, although it was designed originally for publicly held manufacturing companies with assets of more than $1 million. Later variations by Altman were designed to be applicable to privately held companies (the Altman Z'-Score) and non-manufacturing companies (the Altman Z\"-Score).\n\nNeither the Altman models nor other balance sheet-based models are recommended for use with financial companies. This is because of the opacity of financial companies' balance sheets and their frequent use of off-balance sheet items. There are market-based formulas used to predict the default of financial firms (such as the Merton Model), but these have limited predictive value because they rely on market data (fluctuations of share and options prices to imply fluctuations in asset values) to predict a market event (default, i.e., the decline in asset values below the value of a firm's liabilities).\n\nNOTE: The symbol \" / \" means the same thing as \" ÷ \", representing division.\n\nZ score bankruptcy model:\n\nZones of discrimination:\n\nNOTE: The symbol \" / \" means the same thing as \" ÷ \", representing division.\n\nZ' Score bankruptcy model:\n\nZones of discrimination:\n\nNOTE: The symbol \" / \" means the same thing as \" ÷ \", representing division.\n\nZ-Score bankruptcy model:\n\nZ-Score bankruptcy model (emerging markets):\n\nZones of discriminations:\n\n\nThe Use of Credit Scoring Modules and the Importance of a Credit Culture by Dr. Edward I Altman, Stern School of Business, New York University.\n\n"}
{"id": "43398707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43398707", "title": "Asim Hussain", "text": "Asim Hussain\n\nAsim Hussain, SI, HI is active in the fields of health, education, and Pakistani politics. He is chairman of Ziauddin Group of Hospitals in Karachi, and former Advisor of Prime Minister for Ministry of Oil and Natural Resources, Pakistan. He serves as the Chairman of Higher Commission of Sindh and Chairman of Petroleum Institute of Pakistan.\n\nIn recognition of his services to the nation in the fields of education and health care he has been conferred with the Sitara-i-Imtiaz and Hilal-i-Imtiaz.\nOn the 27th of August 2015 Asim Hussain was detained by the Authorities in an ongoing operation within the city of Karachi launched by the Pakistani Army.\n\nHussain was born in Karachi, Pakistan on 28 November 1953, to Ejaz Fatima and Tajammul Hussain, the founding members of the Dr. Ziauddin Group of Hospitals.\n\nHussain received his early education from the Karachi Grammar School and later enrolled in the Cadet College, Petaro. After serving a brief period in the Pakistan Army, Hussain retired as a Lieutenant and chose to pursue the degree of MBBS. He graduated from Dow Medical College (now, Dow University of Health Sciences) Karachi in 1978 and went to Europe for further studies. He is a member of College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan (CPS). in 1981 and continued his studies in Vienna, Austria. After returning to Pakistan, he entered politics.\n\nHe is the Chairman of the Dr. Ziauddin Group of Hospitals. In 1995, Hussain established the Ziauddin University, a chartered institution of the Provincial Assembly of Sindh and accredited by the Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan.\n\nOther positions:\n\n\nDr. Asim Hussain joined the Pakistan Army\n\n"}
{"id": "1146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146", "title": "Assembly line", "text": "Assembly line\n\nAn assembly line is a manufacturing process (often called a \"progressive assembly\") in which parts (usually interchangeable parts) are added as the semi-finished assembly moves from workstation to workstation where the parts are added in sequence until the final assembly is produced. By mechanically moving the parts to the assembly work and moving the semi-finished assembly from work station to work station, a finished product can be assembled faster and with less labor than by having workers carry parts to a stationary piece for assembly.\n\nAssembly lines are common methods of assembling complex items such as automobiles and other transportation equipment, household appliances and electronic goods.\n\nAssembly lines are designed for the sequential organization of workers, tools or machines, and parts. The motion of workers is minimized to the extent possible. All parts or assemblies are handled either by conveyors or motorized vehicles such as fork lifts, or gravity, with no manual trucking. Heavy lifting is done by machines such as overhead cranes or fork lifts. Each worker typically performs one simple operation.\n\nAccording to Henry Ford:\n\nConsider the assembly of a car: assume that certain steps in the assembly line are to install the engine, install the hood, and install the wheels (in that order, with arbitrary interstitial steps); only one of these steps can be done at a time. In traditional production, only one car would be assembled at a time. If engine installation takes 20 minutes, hood installation takes five minutes, and wheels installation takes 10 minutes, then a car can be produced every 35 minutes.\n\nIn an assembly line, car assembly is split between several stations, all working simultaneously. When one station is finished with a car, it passes it on to the next. By having three stations, a total of three different cars can be operated on at the same time, each one at a different stage of its assembly.\n\nAfter finishing its work on the first car, the engine installation crew can begin working on the second car. While the engine installation crew works on the second car, the first car can be moved to the hood station and fitted with a hood, then to the wheels station and be fitted with wheels. After the engine has been installed on the second car, the second car moves to the hood assembly. At the same time, the third car moves to the engine assembly. When the third car's engine has been mounted, it then can be moved to the hood station; meanwhile, subsequent cars (if any) can be moved to the engine installation station.\n\nAssuming no loss of time when moving a car from one station to another, the longest stage on the assembly line determines the throughput (20 minutes for the engine installation) so a car can be produced every 20 minutes, once the first car taking 35 minutes has been produced.\n\nBefore the Industrial Revolution, most manufactured products were made individually by hand. A single craftsman or team of craftsmen would create each part of a product. They would use their skills and tools such as files and knives to create the individual parts. They would then assemble them into the final product, making cut-and-try changes in the parts until they fit and could work together (craft production).\n\nDivision of labor was practiced in China where state run monopolies mass-produced metal agricultural implements, china, armor, and weapons centuries before it appeared in Europe on the eve of the Industrial Revolution. Adam Smith discussed the division of labour in the manufacture of pins at length in his book \"The Wealth of Nations\" (published in 1776).\n\nThe Venetian Arsenal, dating to about 1104, operated similar to a production line. Ships moved down a canal and were fitted by the various shops they passed. At the peak of its efficiency in the early 16th century, the Venetian Arsenal employed some 16,000 people who could apparently produce nearly one ship each day, and could fit out, arm, and provision a newly built galley with standardized parts on an assembly-line basis. Although the Venice Arsenal lasted until the early Industrial Revolution, production line methods did not become common even then.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution led to a proliferation of manufacturing and invention. Many industries, notably textiles, firearms, clocks and watches, horse-drawn vehicles, railway locomotives, sewing machines, and bicycles, saw expeditious improvement in materials handling, machining, and assembly during the 19th century, although modern concepts such as industrial engineering and logistics had not yet been named.\n\nThe automatic flour mill built by Oliver Evans in 1785 was called the beginning of modern bulk material handling by Roe (1916). Evans's mill used a leather belt bucket elevator, screw conveyors, canvas belt conveyors, and other mechanical devices to completely automate the process of making flour. The innovation spread to other mills and breweries.\n\nProbably the earliest industrial example of a linear and continuous assembly process is the Portsmouth Block Mills, built between 1801 and 1803. Marc Isambard Brunel (father of Isambard Kingdom Brunel), with the help of Henry Maudslay and others, designed 22 types of machine tools to make the parts for the rigging blocks used by the Royal Navy. This factory was so successful that it remained in use until the 1960s, with the workshop still visible at HM Dockyard in Portsmouth, and still containing some of the original machinery.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of an almost modern factory layout, designed for easy material handling, was the Bridgewater Foundry. The factory grounds were bordered by the Bridgewater Canal and the Liverpool and Manchester Railway. The buildings were arranged in a line with a railway for carrying the work going through the buildings. Cranes were used for lifting the heavy work, which sometimes weighed in the tens of tons. The work passed sequentially through to erection of framework and final assembly.\n\nThe first flow assembly line was initiated at the factory of Richard Garrett & Sons, Leiston Works in Leiston in the English county of Suffolk for the manufacture of portable steam engines. The assembly line area was called 'The Long Shop' on account of its length and was fully operational by early 1853. The boiler was brought up from the foundry and put at the start of the line, and as it progressed through the building it would stop at various stages where new parts would be added. From the upper level, where other parts were made, the lighter parts would be lowered over a balcony and then fixed onto the machine on the ground level. When the machine reached the end of the shop, it would be completed.\n\nDuring the early 19th century, the development of machine tools such as the screw-cutting lathe, metal planer, and milling machine, and of toolpath control via jigs and fixtures, provided the prerequisites for the modern assembly line by making interchangeable parts a practical reality.\n\nSteam powered conveyor lifts began being used for loading and unloading ships some time in the last quarter of the 19th century. Hounshell (1984) shows a sketch of an electric powered conveyor moving cans through a filling line in a canning factory.\n\nThe meatpacking industry of Chicago is believed to be one of the first industrial assembly lines (or dis-assembly lines) to be utilized in the United States starting in 1867. Workers would stand at fixed stations and a pulley system would bring the meat to each worker and they would complete one task. Henry Ford and others have written about the influence of this slaughterhouse practice on the later developments at Ford Motor Company.\n\nAccording to Domm, the implementation of mass production of an automobile via an assembly line may be credited to Ransom Olds, who used it to build the first mass-produced automobile, the Oldsmobile Curved Dash. Olds patented the assembly line concept, which he put to work in his Olds Motor Vehicle Company factory in 1901.\n\nAt Ford Motor Company, the assembly line was introduced by William \"Pa\" Klann upon his return from visiting Swift & Company's slaughterhouse in Chicago and viewing what was referred to as the \"disassembly line\", where carcasses were butchered as they moved along a conveyor. The efficiency of one person removing the same piece over and over without himself moving caught his attention. He reported the idea to Peter E. Martin, soon to be head of Ford production, who was doubtful at the time but encouraged him to proceed. Others at Ford have claimed to have put the idea forth to Henry Ford, but Pa Klann's slaughterhouse revelation is well documented in the archives at the Henry Ford Museum and elsewhere, making him an important contributor to the modern automated assembly line concept. Ford was appreciative, having visited the highly automated 40-acre Sears mail order handling facility around 1906. At Ford, the process was an evolution by trial and error of a team consisting primarily of Peter E. Martin, the factory superintendent; Charles E. Sorensen, Martin's assistant; Clarence W. Avery; C. Harold Wills, draftsman and toolmaker; Charles Ebender; and József Galamb. Some of the groundwork for such development had recently been laid by the intelligent layout of machine tool placement that Walter Flanders had been doing at Ford up to 1908.\n\nThe moving assembly line was developed for the Ford Model T and began operation on October 7, 1913, at the Highland Park Ford Plant, and continued to evolve after that, using time and motion study. The assembly line, driven by conveyor belts, reduced production time for a Model T to just 93 minutes by dividing the process into 45 steps. Producing cars quicker than paint of the day could dry, it had an immense influence on the world.\n\nIn 1922, Ford (through his ghostwriter Crowther) said of his 1913 assembly line:\n\nCharles E. Sorensen, in his 1956 memoir \"My Forty Years with Ford\", presented a different version of development that was not so much about individual \"inventors\" as a gradual, logical development of industrial engineering:\n\nAs a result of these developments in method, Ford's cars came off the line in three-minute intervals, or six feet per minute. This was much faster than previous methods, increasing production by eight to one (requiring 12.5 man-hours before, 1 hour 33 minutes after), while using less manpower. It was so successful, paint became a bottleneck. Only japan black would dry fast enough, forcing the company to drop the variety of colors available before 1914, until fast-drying Duco lacquer was developed in 1926.\n\nThe assembly line technique was an integral part of the diffusion of the automobile into American society. Decreased costs of production allowed the cost of the Model T to fall within the budget of the American middle class. In 1908, the price of a Model T was around $825, and by 1912 it had decreased to around $575. This price reduction is comparable to a reduction from $15,000 to $10,000 in dollar terms from the year 2000. In 1914, an assembly line worker could buy a Model T with four months' pay.\n\nFord's complex safety procedures—especially assigning each worker to a specific location instead of allowing them to roam about—dramatically reduced the rate of injury. The combination of high wages and high efficiency is called \"Fordism\", and was copied by most major industries. The efficiency gains from the assembly line also coincided with the take-off of the United States. The assembly line forced workers to work at a certain pace with very repetitive motions which led to more output per worker while other countries were using less productive methods.\n\nIn the automotive industry, its success was dominating, and quickly spread worldwide. Ford France and Ford Britain in 1911, Ford Denmark 1923, Ford Germany and Ford Japan 1925; in 1919, Vulcan (Southport, Lancashire) was the first native European manufacturer to adopt it. Soon, companies had to have assembly lines, or risk going broke by not being able to compete; by 1930, 250 companies which did not had disappeared.\n\nThe massive demand for military hardware in World War II prompted assembly-line techniques in shipbuilding and aircraft production. Thousands of Liberty Ships were built making extensive use of prefabrication, enabling ship assembly to be completed in weeks or even days. After having produced fewer than 3,000 planes for the United States Military in 1939, American aircraft manufacturers built over 300,000 planes in World War II. Vultee pioneered the use of the powered assembly line for aircraft manufacturing. Other companies quickly followed. As William S. Knudsen (having worked at Ford, GM and the National Defense Advisory Commission) observed, \"We won because we smothered the enemy in an avalanche of production, the like of which he had never seen, nor dreamed possible.\"\n\nIn his 1922 autobiography, Henry Ford mentions several benefits of the assembly line including:\n\n\nThe gains in productivity allowed Ford to increase worker pay from $1.50 per day to $5.00 per day once employees reached three years of service on the assembly line. Ford continued on to reduce the hourly work week while continuously lowering the Model T price. These goals appear altruistic; however, it has been argued that they were implemented by Ford in order to reduce high employee turnover: when the assembly line was introduced in 1913, it was discovered that \"every time the company wanted to add 100 men to its factory personnel, it was necessary to hire 963\" in order to counteract the natural distaste the assembly line seems to have inspired.\n\nSociological work has explored the social alienation and boredom that many workers feel because of the repetition of doing the same specialized task all day long.\n\nOne of capitalism's most famous critics, Karl Marx, expressed in his \"Entfremdung\" theory the belief that in order to achieve job satisfaction workers need to see themselves in the objects they have created, that products should be \"mirrors in which workers see their reflected essential nature.\" Marx viewed labour as a chance for us to externalize facets of our personality. Marxists argue that specialization makes it very difficult for any worker to feel they may be contributing to the real needs of humanity. The repetitive nature of specialized tasks causes, they say, a feeling of disconnection between what a worker does all day, who they really are, and what they would ideally be able to contribute to society. Marx also argued that specialised jobs are insecure, since the worker is expendable as soon as costs rise and technology can replace more expensive human labour.\n\nSince workers have to stand in the same place for hours and repeat the same motion hundreds of times per day repetitive stress injuries are a possible pathology of occupational safety. Industrial noise also proved dangerous. When it was not too high, workers were often prohibited from talking. Charles Piaget, a skilled worker at the LIP factory, recalled that beside being prohibited from speaking, the semi-skilled workers had only 25 centimeters in which to move. Industrial ergonomics later tried to minimize physical trauma.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3567120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3567120", "title": "Batey (sugar workers' town)", "text": "Batey (sugar workers' town)\n\nA batey (plural is bateyes) is a settlement around a sugar mill. They can be found in Cuba, Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.\n\nIn Cuba and the Dominican Republic, the basic conglomerate unit of a sugar production is usually called an \"ingenio.\" An ingenio consists of a central administrative office, a sugar cane mill, a sugar refinery, the town around the office and refinery, sugar fields (\"campos de caña\"), and miscellaneous production equipment like trucks, trains, tractors, weighing scales, and housing for workers, usually in what is called a \"batey.\"\nA batey is a company town consisting of barracks and a few houses. Bateyes vary in size considerably. They are located close to cane fields so that groups of workers can live nearby their labor site.\n\nEvery year since 1933, seasonal immigrants from Haiti have arrived to work the sugar harvest in the Dominican Republic. The migrants are lodged in rooms at the batey sometimes with no facilities and expected to work cropping sugar cane in long days with hard hours. In the past, Dominican heads of state paid Haitian heads of state a finder's fee to round up large numbers of Haitians. However, the Dominican Government has sent police officers to kidnap Haitian men, women, and children, destroyed their documents and have forcibly moved them to the bateys in the Dominican Republic.\n\nThese days, individual ingenios and land owners (\"colonos\") pay headhunters (\"buscones\"), a fee for each cane cutter (\"picador\") the headhunter provides. A headhunter may entice the prospective labourer with promises of a work permit, and often requires a large fee from the prospective immigrant. When immigrants arrive, they may find that they are not free to leave the batey until they finish the labor.\n\nOver time, some of these migrants have stayed through the six months that follow the cane harvest (\"zafra\"), called \"dead time\" (\"tiempo muerto\"), and have started families with Haitian women that have migrated as well. Bateys are unique in culture and language in their mix of which is Haitian and which is Dominican.\nThe Dominican government has historically provided fewer public services to bateys than to similarly sized communities in the rest of the country. The bateys were regarded as exceptions to the country's governance system. It was often left to the State Sugar Council (CEA: Consejo Estatal de Azúcar) or private companies to provide basic services, a responsibility that all too often they did not fulfill. Bateys were often still regarded as places where only Haitians (non-citizens) live.\n\nSince the Haitians who originally filled the bateys were not legal immigrants, their children have often been denied citizenship papers because they are in transit. Without citizenship papers from Haiti, these children of Haitian immigrants cannot go to school nor can they receive the benefits of other public services; however, a number of non-governmental organizations have attempted to address this problem by operating primary schools on bateys trying to get them Dominican citizenship.\nIn the past, sugar was a profitable industry. However, the Dominican sugar industry is no longer competitive, and when combined with the historical lack of educational and health services to these communities, the low wages have tended to make bateys some of the poorest communities in the country.\n\nThe current trend in the Dominican Republic is for the ingenios to stop production, and thus the only source of income for the community and for the bateys to very slowly transform themselves into new sorts of communities. Los Alcarrizos in the Santo Domingo province is a good example of something that used to be a batey but now is a municipality which survives through jobs in the area and in Santo Domingo. The Batey is a modern form of slavery where Haitians are paid less than $2.00 American dollars for 12-14 hours of labor. They are forced to sleep on foam boards and live without electricity,running water.\n\n"}
{"id": "44571185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44571185", "title": "Bernard Ades", "text": "Bernard Ades\n\nBernard Ades (July 3, 1903 – May 27, 1986) was an American Communist who is most known for his defense of Euel Lee, an African American accused of murdering a white family in Maryland in 1931. During a murder trial which was still heavily influenced by “Jim Crow” laws, Ades set precedents that allowed a change of venue outside a highly prejudiced environment, and he fought for the right to have African Americans serve on jury panels.\n\nBernard Ades was born in Baltimore, Maryland, the second child of Harry and Fanny Levine Ades. His father, a Russian born and devout traditionalist Jew, moved to America and started an umbrella manufacturing business with his brother, Simon Ades. This would later be of significance during the McCarthy Era when Bernard Ades would be put under special surveillance for his ties to Russia and his Communist beliefs.\n\nAdes graduated from Baltimore City College (a secondary school). Afterward, he attended the University of Maryland Law School for his LLB and later earned a bachelor's degree in economics at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nAdes was a part of the Communist Party which influenced the types of legal cases he took. For the Euel Lee, “Orphan Jones” Case in 1931, Ades was employed by the International Labor Defense (affiliated with the Communist Party) in a campaign against lynching. Among others he represented Euel Lee (aka Orphan Jones) whose capital case captured national attention.\n\nEuel Lee, an African American farmhand, was accused of murdering a white family of four for refusing to pay his full wages. The case took place in the Eastern Shore of Maryland, still heavily influenced by Jim Crow Laws with institutionalized discrimination. The tactics that Ades used to ensure a fair trial brought him infamy in Maryland and resulted in one instance of being mobbed and beaten.\n\nThough Ades won his client a change of venue, two new trials and the right to have African Americans on jury panels, Ades lost the trial and Lee was soon after executed by hanging on October 28, 1933. However, his defense of Lee set precedents that would be used throughout the civil rights movement.\n\nA fight ensued over the body where Ades demanded the right to bury Euel Lee in New York as he was granted the right to his client's body in Lee's last will and testament. Fearing riots and further racial unrest, Ades was denied the right to bury the body in New York and is currently interred in an unmarked grave in Brooklyn, Maryland.\n\nCharges of unprofessional conduct were lodged in Maryland and before the US Bar for his handling of the case, and the ensuing social unrest which the coverage of the case caused. Ades was defended by Charles Houston of Howard University Law School and by “Young Thurgood” Marshall of the NAACP. This also set a precedent as the first case of a white man being defended in court by an African American.\nThe Maryland Bar publicly reprimanded Ades for his conduct while also praising his defense of Lee: \n\"It does not seem to the court that the extreme punishment of disbarment should be inflicted. Much that *482 is blameworthy in the respondent's conduct carries its own antidote, for no one can succeed at the bar who comports himself as he has done. Taking into consideration the unquestioned service rendered in the Lee case, the injuries which the respondent suffered at the hands of lawless men while acting as counsel in that case, and the fact that he has already suffered a suspension from the bar of this court for approximately five months, it is believed that a public reprimand will suffice. This will be the judgment of the court.\" (RE Ades Court Case)\n\nRe Ades sets the precedent that organizations could provide counsel to individuals thus setting up the later defense for the NAACP in the school desegregation cases of the 1960s.\n\nIn 1934 Ades ran for Governor of Maryland on the Communist Party ticket and received less than 8,000 votes. Despite the support of the African American community, he lost by a significant margin.\n\nOn February 20, 1937 Ades sailed to Spain on the Ile de France to join in the Spanish Civil War on the side of the Loyalists. Later he was commissioned as a First Lieutenant and served as Company Commissar in the Lincoln Brigade which was part of a volunteer based military organization known as the International Brigades who were dedicated to fighting fascism. He fought in the battles of Brunete, Villanueva, Pardillo and at Fuentes de Ebro. He returned to the United States on September 30, 1937 aboard the SS Normandie .\n\nAfter returning to the United States, Ades was employed as an auditor with the Federal Housing Authority by 1940. Following his exposure by Congressman Del’Assandro of Baltimore for being a Communist, he was forced to resign in 1941 and was placed on J. Edgar Hoover’s list for security detention in case of war.\n\nIn 1941 New York State certified Ades as a Public Accountant and he practiced out of offices at 505 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY. His clients included \"Our World\" magazine (published by his best friend John P. Davis), United Electrical Workers, the American Soviet Trading Organization (AMTORG), and the Communist Party of the United States of America as well as a slew of smaller left wing organizations.\n\nActive in the Bronx Reform Democrats Ades served as a delegate to the New York State Constitutional Convention. He opposed the war in Vietnam, participated in the marches on Washington against it and helped start the Dump Johnson movement in the Bronx.\n\nIn 1940, the FBI began their surveillance of Ades which only ceased when he entered Isabella House, a nursing home, in 1979. He died there and was buried in Baltimore Hebrew Congregation Cemetery, 2100 Belair Road, Maryland.\n\nAn early marriage was dissolved by divorce. In 1935 Ades married Mary Ethel Hechler, also a Communist Party devotee and had two daughters, Janet and Judith. Widowed in 1959 he married Dora Rubinfine Ziebel who predeceased him by four years.\n\n“Red Father” is a documentary directed by Tova Beck-Friedman which explores the life of Ades through the eyes of his daughter Janet. She admires his wisdom, his generosity and his world outlook, and though as a child she thought him larger than life, as an adult she questions his ideology, its implementation and her father's Communist involvement. Throughout his trial and later tribulations, Ades remained true to his ideals.\n"}
{"id": "7693333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7693333", "title": "Beverley Robinson", "text": "Beverley Robinson\n\nBeverley Robinson (11 January 1721 – 9 April 1792), a wealthy colonist from New York, was a son of the Hon. John Robinson of Virginia, who was the President of that colony. He is mostly remembered as the commander of the Loyal American Regiment, a loyalist regiment in the American Revolutionary War and for his work with the British secret service during the war. After the war he retired to Britain.\n\n Beverley Robinson was born in Middlesex County, Virginia. He moved to New York and married Susanna Philipse, the middle daughter of Frederick Philipse, second Lord of Philipsburg Manor. She had been a possible love interest of George Washington, and owned a one-third share of the Philipse Patent, an immense landed estate on the Hudson River.\n\nBy this connection, Mr. Robinson became rich. When the American Revolutionary War began, he was living upon that portion of the Phillipse estate which had been given to his wife, and there he desired to remain in the quiet enjoyment of country life, and in the management of his large domain. He was opposed to the measures of the Ministry, gave up the use of imported merchandise, and clothed himself and his family in fabrics of domestic manufacture.\n\nRobinson was also opposed to the separation of the colonies from England. However, he wished to take no part in the conflict of arms. Before long, however, friends helped to overrule his own judgment, and he entered the military service of the Crown. His standing entitled him to high rank and he was commissioned Colonel of the \"Loyal American Regiment\", raised principally in New York, by himself. He also commanded the corps of Guides and Pioneers, which included black Loyalist soldiers from the Black Company of Pioneers. His sons figured prominently in the selection of officers for the Loyal American Regiment. His son, Beverley, was Lieutenant-Colonel. The regiment, which saw much fighting in the course of the war, figured most prominently in the attack on Fort Montgomery, NY, on October 6, 1777, when British and Loyalist forces overwhelmed the rebel fort on the Hudson River.\n\nRobinson was also heavily involved in the treason of Benedict Arnold and it is generally believed that he was acquainted with the traitor's purpose before it was known to Sir Henry Clinton, or any other person. And it appears certain that Arnold addressed him a letter on the subject of going over to the Royal side, before soliciting the command of West Point. As the plot matured, he accompanied John André to Dobb's Ferry to meet Arnold, according to a previous arrangement; but an accident prevented an interview, and both returned to New York. Subsequently, he went up the Hudson River in the Vulture, for the purpose of furthering the objects in view; but failed in his most material designs. Arnold now sent Smith on board of the Vulture with a letter, which was delivered to Colonel Robinson, and on the faith of which André went on shore. The treacherous Whig had been expected on the ship in person, and it has been said that Robinson was much opposed to André's trusting himself to the honour \"of a man who was seeking to betray his country.\" But the zealous young officer would not listen to the prudent counsel, and determined to embark upon the duty from which he never returned.\n\nOn the 23rd of September, 1780, André was captured and on the 26th was conveyed a prisoner to Colonel Robinson's own house, which, with the lands adjacent, had been confiscated by the state, which Arnold had occupied as his headquarters, and of which Washington was then a temporary occupant. After André's trial and conviction, Sir Henry Clinton sent three commissioners to the Whig camp, in the hope of producing a change in the determination of Washington, and of showing André's innocence; to this mission Robinson was attached in the character of a witness. He had previously addressed the Commander-in-Chief on the subject of André's release; and, as he and Washington had been personal friends until political events had produced a separation, he took occasion to speak of their former acquaintance in his letter.\n\nOn September 6, 1781, Robinson was not in command of the Loyal American Regiment that accompanied Benedict Arnold in the burning of New London, Connecticut. His son, Lieut. Colonel Beverly Robinson Jr. commanded it in his place. \n\nAs Loyalists, the Philipse-Robinson family was not in favor in the new United States. Property belonging to Philipse heirs was forfeited and seized by provincial New York authorities. This included Susanna's share of the Philipse Patent, which was auctioned off by the Commissioners of Forfeiture without compensation to the prior holder in spite of assurances of restitution in the 1783 Treaty of Paris that Revolutionary representatives signed with the British.\n\nAt the end of the war, Colonel Robinson, with a part of his family, went to England. Like many loyalists who moved there, he reportedly felt out of place and unappreciated. He resided at Thornbury, near Bristol, and died there on April 9, 1792, at the age of seventy.\n\nMiss F. Page Robinson was member n. 5 of the Daughters of the American Revolution. Born in Virginia. Descendant of Col. William Robinson. Daughter of Maj. Thomas Robinson and Mary S. Hoomes, his wife. Granddaughter of Col. Beverly Robinson and Sarah Downing, his wife. Great-granddaughter of Maj. John Robinson and Katherine Page, his wife. Great-great-granddaughter of Rev. William Robinson and Agatha Beverly Smith, his wife. Rev. William Robinson was a clergyman and soldier in the Revolutionary War, and bore the title of colonel. \n\n"}
{"id": "51153357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51153357", "title": "BioViva", "text": "BioViva\n\nBioViva is a Bainbridge Island, Washington-based biotechnology company developing treatments to slow the ageing process in humans.\n\nBioViva was founded in 2015. In early 2016, Sierra Sciences announced that they were working with BioViva to start a new medical tourism-based venture, BioViva FIJI, on Fiji and that they will be the first company to use gene therapy to treat biological aging in humans. CEO Liz Parrish explained the reason for setting up in Fiji: \"The current regulatory authorities have an outdated model that does not accommodate these new technologies.\" In June 2016, government sources in Fiji denied knowledge of the venture.\n\nBioViva released data gathered post-therapy in 2016, claiming that independent testing by SpectraCell Laboratories had revealed Parrish's leukocyte telomere length had been extended from 6.71kb to 7.33kb, an amount they state is equivalent to a reversal of 20 years of telomere attrition. The company also released data suggesting an improvement in insulin sensitivity, an increase in muscle mass, a more favourable blood lipid profile and a reduction in C-reactive protein, a potent marker of inflammation.\n\nBioViva's CEO Liz Parrish appeared on Norwegian television in the program Trygdekontoret to discuss the use of gene and cell therapies to improve health in an aging population. Parrish has also appeared on Australian network ABC's Lateline, discussing BioViva's development of therapies to treat biological ageing.\n\nParrish appeared at WIRED Health 2017 in London to discuss BioViva's testing of gene therapies targeting hallmarks of the ageing process. Appearing in WIRED, Parrish stated, \"The company was built essentially to prove these therapies work or not. Remember BioViva is not a research organisation. We are taking things like gene therapies and using them like technology.\"\n\nParrish's treatment, often labelled as self-experimentation, is highly controversial. As the requirements to progress to human trials had not started, the US Food and Drug Administration did not authorize Parrish's experiments. Parrish travelled to Colombia for the treatments.\n\nSome have criticised BioViva's release of data claiming an extension of Parrish's leukocyte telomeres following her therapy, suggesting that the aforementioned extension is within the error change for telomere measurements. Dr. Bradley Johnson, Associate Professor of Pathology and Lab Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania said, \"Telomere length measurements typically have low precision, with variation in measurements of around 10 percent, which is in the range of the reported telomere lengthening apparently experienced by Elizabeth Parrish.\"\n\nAltering the genetic makeup of humans, or gene therapy, by lengthening telomeres has been described as dangerous, as the ageing process is poorly understood. The telomeres' function is to restrict the number of times a cell can divide (thereby multiplying) to suppress cancer. Duncan Baird, a professor of Cancer and Genetics at Cardiff University's School of Medicine states, \"Meddling with a fundamentally important tumor-suppressive mechanism that has evolved in long-lived species like ours doesn't strike me as a particularly good idea.\"\n\nTimothy Caulfield, professor in the Faculty of Law and the School of Public Health at the University of Alberta, characterized BioViva's work as 'pseudoscience' and lacking scientific rigor. George M Martin, professor of pathology at the University of Washington had agreed to be an adviser to the company but resigned upon hearing about Parrish's self-experiments.\n\nAntonio Regalado, reporter for the MIT Technology Review states, \"The experiment seems likely to be remembered as either a new low in medical quackery or, perhaps, the unlikely start of an era in which naive people receive genetic modifications not just to treat disease, but to reverse aging.\"\n\nParrish's decision to be 'patient zero' and test the company's technology on herself in a personalised N=1 study has been both criticised and lauded. Dr. Lawrence Altman, author of \"Who Goes First? The Story of Self-Experimentation in Medicine\" has said, \"N's of 1 have had their value through history, and will. But you're not going to license a drug based on an N-of-1.\"\n\nBioViva's technology is based on preclinical research of inhibition of both the enzyme telomerase and myostatin.\n\nTelomerase gene therapy utilizing an adeno-associated virus undertaken by María Blasco's group at the Spanish National Cancer Research Centre (CNIO), has demonstrated several beneficial effects and an increase in median lifespan of up to 24% in mice. Discussing her team's research, Blasco has stated in discussion with The Scientist, \"We demonstrated that AAV9-Tert gene therapy was sufficient to delay age-related pathologies and extend both median and maximum longevity in mice. Many pathologies were delayed, including cancer. Translating these results to human diseases (telomere syndromes or certain age-related diseases without effective treatments) may be of interest in the context of clinical trials approved by the corresponding regulatory agencies.\"\n\nMyostatin inhibition gene therapy, utilizing the gene follistatin (a known inhibitor of myostatin), has been tested in a phase 1/2 trial on 6 people, for Becker's muscular dystrophy. 4 of the 6 patients showed improvements in walking ability following application of the gene therapy, with some muscle growth especially in response to the higher dosage.\n"}
{"id": "441091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441091", "title": "Bruno Carranza", "text": "Bruno Carranza\n\nJosé Bruno Carranza Ramírez (October 5, 1822 – January 25, 1891) was briefly President of Costa Rica (albeit with the title \"Temporary Head of the Republic\") in 1870. Bruno Carranza came to power in the coup d'état of 27 April 1870 that deposed President Jesús Jiménez. He resigned three months later.\n\nHis parents were Miguel Carranza Fernández (Vice-Head of State between 1838 and 1841) and Joaquina Ramírez y García. In 1847 he married Gerónima Montealegre, sister of President José María Montealegre Fernández. His great-great-granddaughter is actress Madeleine Stowe.\n\nCarranza graduated in medicine from the University of San Carlos in Guatemala.\n\nAfter returning to Costa Rica he practiced both privately and in the State-run Hospital San Juan de Dios. He was inspector general of vaccinations and proto-medicines. He served in Nicaragua as a military doctor during the 1856 Campaign against William Walker, but had to return almost immediately due to a Costa Rican Army retreat and a cholera epidemic.\n\nHe also worked as a journalist, publishing several newsletters and newspapers such as \"El Álbum\" (\"The Album\") and \"La Estrella del Irazú\" (\"The Irazú Star\"). He was also active in other diverse economic and commercial ventures, and among other businesses he owned coffee plantations, a book store, and a boutique. From 1855 to 1859 he was awarded the administration of the National Liquor Factory and thus became the only official State supplier of alcohol.\n\nHe was deputy for several periods under the Mora Porras administration. He became the Costa Rican ambassador to El Salvador in 1857. He represented San José in the Constituent Assembly of 1869, although he stepped down soon after his election. Politically he was considered a liberal, sometimes even anti-clerical, and was exiled more than once because of his political beliefs.\n\nThe coup d'état of 27 April 1870 turned him into the head of state with the official title of \"Temporary Head of the Republic\" (in Spanish \"Jefe Provisorio de la República\"). During his administration the district of Limón was created, laws outlining personal and religious freedoms were dictated, and a law of guarantees was passed which for the first time in the country's history banned the death penalty. The so-called \"Secretarías de Estado\" were also regulated and new elections for a Constituent Assembly were held.\n\nThe principal figure in his administration and author of his policies towards external relations and freedom of creed was the Guatemalan lawyer Lorenzo Montúfar y Rivera, noted advocated of anti-clericalism. Other notable Secretaries of State during his time in office were Joaquín Lizano Gutiérrez (government, police, justice, agriculture, and industry), Rafael Gallegos Sáenz (housing and commerce), and Buenaventura Carazo Alvarado (war, navy, and public works).\n\nDue to differences with Tomás Guardia Gutiérrez on August 8, 1870 he presented his resignation to the Constituent Assembly, which was accepted the next day on August 9. General Guardia succeeded him.\n\nHe was later a member of the Grand National Counsel and Plenipotentiary Minister of Costa Rica in El Salvador, where he signed the Carranza-Arbizú Accord.\n\n"}
{"id": "3543438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3543438", "title": "Business process interoperability", "text": "Business process interoperability\n\nBusiness process interoperability (BPI) is a property referring to the ability of diverse business processes to work together, to so called \"inter-operate\". It is a state that exists when a business process can meet a specific objective automatically utilizing essential human labor only. Typically, BPI is present when a process conforms to standards that enable it to achieve its objective regardless of ownership, location, make, version or design of the computer systems used.\n\nThe main attraction of BPI is that a business process can start and finish at any point worldwide regardless of the types of hardware and software required to automate it. Because of its capacity to offload human \"mind\" labor, BPI is considered by many as the final stage in the evolution of business computing. BPI's twin criteria of \"specific objective\" and \"essential human labor\" are both subjective.\n\nThe objectives of BPI vary, but tend to fall into the following categories:\n\nBusiness process interoperability is limited to enterprise software systems in which functions are designed to work together, such as a payroll module and a general ledger module that are part of the same program suite, and in controlled software environments that use EDI. Interoperability is also present between incompatible systems where middleware has been applied. In each of these cases, however, the processes seldom meet the test of BPI because they are constrained by information silos and the systems' inability to freely communicate among each other.\n\nThe term \"Business process interoperability\" (BPI) was coined in the late 1990s, mostly in connection with the value chain in electronic commerce. BPI has been utilized in promotional materials by various companies, and appears as a subject of research at organizations concerned with computer science ontologies.\n\nDespite the attention it has received, business process interoperability has not been applied outside of limited information system environments. A possible reason is that BPI requires universal conformance to standards so that a business process can start and finish at any point worldwide. The standards themselves are fairly straightforward—organizations use a finite set of shared processes to manage most of their operations. Bringing enterprises together to create and adopt the standards is another matter entirely. The world of management systems is, after all, characterized by information silos. Moving away from silos requires organizations to deal with cultural issues such as ownership and sharing of processes and data, competitive forces and security, not to mention the effect of automation on their work forces.\n\nWhile the timetable or adoption of BPI cannot be predicted, it remains a subject of interest in organizations and think tanks alike.\n\nTo test for BPI, an organization analyzes a business process to determine if it can meet its \"specific objective\" utilizing \"essential human labor\" only.\n\nThe \"specific objective\" must be clearly defined from start to finish. Start and finish are highly subjective, however. In one organization, a process may start when a customer orders a product and finish when the product is delivered to the customer. In another organization, the same process may be preceded with product manufacture and distribution, and may be followed by management of after-sale warranty and repairs.\n\n\"Essential human labor\" includes:\n\nTo qualify for BPI, every process task must be taken into account from start to finish, including the labor that falls between the cracks created by incompatible software applications, such as gathering data from one system and re-inputting it in another, and preparing reports that include data from disparate systems. The process must flow uninterrupted regardless of the underlying computerized systems used. If non-essential human labor exists at any point, the process fails the test of BPI.\n\nTo assure that business processes can meet their specific objectives automatically utilizing essential human labor only, BPI takes a “service-oriented architecture“ (SOA) approach, which focuses on the processes rather than on the technologies required to automate them. A widely used SOA is an effective way to address the problems caused by any disparate system that is the heart of each information silo.\n\nSOA makes practical sense because organizations cannot be expected to replace or modify their current enterprise software to achieve BPI, regardless of the benefits involved. Many workers' jobs are built around the applications they use, and most organizations have sizable investments in their current information infrastructures which are so complex that even the smallest modification can be very costly, time-consuming and disruptive. Even if software makers were to unite and conform their products to a single set of standards, the problem would not be solved. Besides software from well-known manufacturers, organizations use a great many legacy software systems, custom applications, manual procedures and paper forms. Without SOA, streamlining such a huge number of disparate internal processes so that they interoperate across the entire global enterprise spectrum is simply out of the question.\n\nTo create an SOA for widespread use, BPI relies on a centralized database repository containing shared data and procedures common to applications in every industry and geographical area. In essence, the repository serves as a top application layer, enabling organizations to export their data to its distributed database and obtain the programs they need by simply logging on via a portal. To assure security and commercial neutrality, the repository conforms to standards promulgated by the community of BPI stakeholders.\n\nOrganizations and interest groups that wish to achieve business process interoperability begin by establishing one or more BPI initiatives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1638840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638840", "title": "Business process reengineering", "text": "Business process reengineering\n\nBusiness process re-engineering (BPR) is a business management strategy, originally pioneered in the early 1990s, focusing on the analysis and design of workflows and business processes within an organization. BPR aimed to help organizations fundamentally rethink how they do their work in order to dramatically improve customer service, cut operational costs, and become world-class competitors.\n\nBPR seeks to help companies radically restructure their organizations by focusing on the ground-up design of their business processes. According to early BPR proponent Thomas Davenport (1990), a business process is a set of logically related tasks performed to achieve a defined business outcome. Re-engineering emphasized a holistic focus on business objectives and how processes related to them, encouraging full-scale recreation of processes rather than iterative optimization of sub-processes.\n\nBusiness process reengineering is also known as business process redesign, business transformation, or business process change management.\n\nBusiness process reengineering (BPR) is the practice of rethinking and redesigning the way work is done to better support an organization's mission and reduce costs. Organizations reengineer two key areas of their businesses. First, they use modern technology to enhance data dissemination and decision-making processes. Then, they alter functional organizations to form functional teams. Reengineering starts with a high-level assessment of the organization's mission, strategic goals, and customer needs. Basic questions are asked, such as \"Does our mission need to be redefined? Are our strategic goals aligned with our mission? Who are our customers?\" An organization may find that it is operating on questionable assumptions, particularly in terms of the wants and needs of its customers. Only after the organization rethinks what it should be doing, does it go on to decide how best to do it.\n\nWithin the framework of this basic assessment of mission and goals, re-engineering focuses on the organization's business processes—the steps and procedures that govern how resources are used to create products and services that meet the needs of particular customers or markets. As a structured ordering of work steps across time and place, a business process can be decomposed into specific activities, measured, modeled, and improved. It can also be completely redesigned or eliminated altogether. Re-engineering identifies, analyzes, and re-designs an organization's core business processes with the aim of achieving dramatic improvements in critical performance measures, such as cost, quality, service, and speed.\n\nRe-engineering recognizes that an organization's business processes are usually fragmented into sub-processes and tasks that are carried out by several specialized functional areas within the organization. Often, no one is responsible for the overall performance of the entire process. Reengineering maintains that optimizing the performance of sub-processes can result in some benefits, but cannot yield dramatic improvements if the process itself is fundamentally inefficient and outmoded. For that reason, re-engineering focuses on re-designing the process as a whole in order to achieve the greatest possible benefits to the organization and their customers. This drive for realizing dramatic improvements by fundamentally re-thinking how the organization's work should be done distinguishes the re-engineering from process improvement efforts that focus on functional or incremental improvement.\n\nBusiness process reengineering (BPR) began as a private sector technique to help organizations fundamentally rethink how they do their work in order to dramatically improve customer service, cut operational costs, and become world-class competitors. A key stimulus for re-engineering has been the continuing development and deployment of sophisticated information systems and networks. Leading organizations are becoming bolder in using this technology to support innovative business processes, rather than refining current ways of doing work.\n\nIn 1990, Michael Hammer, a former professor of computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), published the article \"Reengineering Work: Don't Automate, Obliterate\" in the \"Harvard Business Review\", in which he claimed that the major challenge for managers is to obliterate forms of work that do not add value, rather than using technology for automating it. This statement implicitly accused managers of having focused on the wrong issues, namely that technology in general, and more specifically information technology, has been used primarily for automating existing processes rather than using it as an enabler for making non-value adding work obsolete.\n\nHammer's claim was simple: Most of the work being done does not add any value for customers, and this work should be removed, not accelerated through automation. Instead, companies should reconsider their inability to satisfy customer needs, and their insufficient cost structure. Even well-established management thinkers, such as Peter Drucker and Tom Peters, were accepting and advocating BPR as a new tool for (re-)achieving success in a dynamic world. During the following years, a fast-growing number of publications, books as well as journal articles, were dedicated to BPR, and many consulting firms embarked on this trend and developed BPR methods. However, the critics were fast to claim that BPR was a way to dehumanize the work place, increase managerial control, and to justify downsizing, i.e. major reductions of the work force, and a rebirth of Taylorism under a different label.\n\nDespite this critique, reengineering was adopted at an accelerating pace and by 1993, as many as 60% of the Fortune 500 companies claimed to either have initiated reengineering efforts, or to have plans to do so. This trend was fueled by the fast adoption of BPR by the consulting industry, but also by the study \"Made in America\", conducted by MIT, that showed how companies in many US industries had lagged behind their foreign counterparts in terms of competitiveness, time-to-market and productivity.\n\nWith the publication of critiques in 1995 and 1996 by some of the early BPR proponents, coupled with abuses and misuses of the concept by others, the reengineering fervor in the U.S. began to wane. Since then, considering business processes as a starting point for business analysis and redesign has become a widely accepted approach and is a standard part of the change methodology portfolio, but is typically performed in a less radical way than originally proposed.\n\nMore recently, the concept of Business Process Management (BPM) has gained major attention in the corporate world and can be considered a successor to the BPR wave of the 1990s, as it is evenly driven by a striving for process efficiency supported by information technology. Equivalently to the critique brought forward against BPR, BPM is now accused of focusing on technology and disregarding the people aspects of change.\n\nThe most notable definitions of reengineering are:\n\nBPR is different from other approaches to organization development (OD), especially the continuous improvement or TQM movement, by virtue of its aim for fundamental and radical change rather than iterative improvement. In order to achieve the major improvements BPR is seeking for, the change of structural organizational variables, and other ways of managing and performing work is often considered insufficient. For being able to reap the achievable benefits fully, the use of information technology (IT) is conceived as a major contributing factor. While IT traditionally has been used for supporting the existing business functions, i.e. it was used for increasing organizational efficiency, it now plays a role as enabler of new organizational forms, and patterns of collaboration within and between organizations.\n\nBPR derives its existence from different disciplines, and four major areas can be identified as being subjected to change in BPR – organization, technology, strategy, and people – where a process view is used as common framework for considering these dimensions.\n\nBusiness strategy is the primary driver of BPR initiatives and the other dimensions are governed by strategy's encompassing role. The organization dimension reflects the structural elements of the company, such as hierarchical levels, the composition of organizational units, and the distribution of work between them. Technology is concerned with the use of computer systems and other forms of communication technology in the business. In BPR, information technology is generally considered to act as enabler of new forms of organizing and collaborating, rather than supporting existing business functions. The people / human resources dimension deals with aspects such as education, training, motivation and reward systems. The concept of business processes – interrelated activities aiming at creating a value added output to a customer – is the basic underlying idea of BPR. These processes are characterized by a number of attributes: Process ownership, customer focus, value adding, and cross-functionality.\n\nInformation technology (IT) has historically played an important role in the reengineering concept. It is regarded by some as a major enabler for new forms of working and collaborating within an organization and across organizational borders.\n\nBPR literature identified several so called \"disruptive technologies\" that were supposed to challenge traditional wisdom about how work should be performed.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, especially workflow management systems were considered a significant contributor to improved process efficiency. Also, ERP (enterprise resource planning) vendors, such as SAP, JD Edwards, Oracle, PeopleSoft, positioned their solutions as vehicles for business process redesign and improvement.\n\nAlthough the labels and steps differ slightly, the early methodologies that were rooted in IT-centric BPR solutions share many of the same basic principles and elements. The following outline is one such model, based on the PRLC (Process Reengineering Life Cycle) approach developed by Guha. Simplified schematic outline of using a business process approach, exemplified for pharmaceutical R&D\n\nBenefiting from lessons learned from the early adopters, some BPR practitioners advocated a change in emphasis to a customer-centric, as opposed to an IT-centric, methodology. One such methodology, that also incorporated a Risk and Impact Assessment to account for the effect that BPR can have on jobs and operations, was described by Lon Roberts (1994). Roberts also stressed the use of change management tools to proactively address resistance to change—a factor linked to the demise of many reengineering initiatives that looked good on the drawing board.\n\nSome items to use on a process analysis checklist are: Reduce handoffs, Centralize data, Reduce delays, Free resources faster, Combine similar activities. Also within the management consulting industry, a significant number of methodological approaches have been developed.\n\nAn easy to follow seven step INSPIRE framework is developed by Bhudeb Chakravarti which can be followed by any Process Analyst to perform BPR. The seven steps of the framework are Initiate a new process reengineering project and prepare a business case for the same; Negotiate with senior management to get approval to start the process reengineering project; Select the key processes that need to be reengineered; Plan the process reengineering activities; Investigate the processes to analyze the problem areas; Redesign the selected processes to improve the performance and Ensure the successful implementation of redesigned processes through proper monitoring and evaluation.\n\nFactors that are important to BPR success include:\n\n\nThe aspects of a BPM effort that are modified include organizational structures, management systems, employee responsibilities and performance measurements, incentive systems, skills development, and the use of IT. BPR can potentially affect every aspect of how business is conducted today. Wholesale changes can cause results ranging from enviable success to complete failure.\n\nIf successful, a BPM initiative can result in improved quality, customer service, and competitiveness, as well as reductions in cost or cycle time. However, 50-70% of reengineering projects are either failures or do not achieve significant benefit.\n\nThere are many reasons for sub-optimal business processes which include:\n\n\nMany unsuccessful BPR attempts may have been due to the confusion surrounding BPR, and how it should be performed. Organizations were well aware that changes needed to be made, but did not know which areas to change or how to change them. As a result, process reengineering is a management concept that has been formed by trial and error or, in other words, practical experience. As more and more businesses reengineer their processes, knowledge of what caused the successes or failures is becoming apparent. To reap lasting benefits, companies must be willing to examine how strategy and reengineering complement each other by learning to quantify strategy in terms of cost, milestones, and timetables, by accepting ownership of the strategy throughout the organization, by assessing the organization’s current capabilities and process realistically, and by linking strategy to the budgeting process. Otherwise, BPR is only a short-term efficiency exercise.\n\nMajor changes to business processes have a direct effect on processes, technology, job roles, and workplace culture. Significant changes to even one of those areas require resources, money, and leadership. Changing them simultaneously is an extraordinary task. Like any large and complex undertaking, implementing reengineering requires the talents and energies of a broad spectrum of experts. Since BPR can involve multiple areas within the organization, it is important to get support from all affected departments. Through the involvement of selected department members, the organization can gain valuable input before a process is implemented; a step which promotes both the cooperation and the vital acceptance of the reengineered process by all segments of the organization.\n\nGetting enterprise wide commitment involves the following: top management sponsorship, bottom-up buy-in from process users, dedicated BPR team, and budget allocation for the total solution with measures to demonstrate value. Before any BPR project can be implemented successfully, there must be a commitment to the project by the management of the organization, and strong leadership must be provided. Reengineering efforts can by no means be exercised without a company-wide commitment to the goals. However, top management commitment is imperative for success. Top management must recognize the need for change, develop a complete understanding of what BPR is, and plan how to achieve it.\n\nLeadership has to be effective, strong, visible, and creative in thinking and understanding in order to provide a clear vision. Convincing every affected group within the organization of the need for BPR is a key step in successfully implementing a process. By informing all affected groups at every stage, and emphasizing the positive end results of the reengineering process, it is possible to minimize resistance to change and increase the odds for success. The ultimate success of BPR depends on the strong, consistent, and continuous involvement of all departmental levels within the organization.\n\nOnce organization-wide commitment has been secured from all departments involved in the reengineering effort and at different levels, the critical step of selecting a BPR team must be taken. This team will form the nucleus of the BPR effort, make key decisions and recommendations, and help communicate the details and benefits of the BPR program to the entire organization. The determinants of an effective BPR team may be summarized as follows: \n\nThe most effective BPR teams include active representatives from the following work groups: top management, business area responsible for the process being addressed, technology groups, finance, and members of all ultimate process users’ groups. Team members who are selected from each work group within the organization will affect the outcome of the reengineered process according to their desired requirements. The BPR team should be mixed in depth and knowledge. For example, it may include members with the following characteristics:\n\n\nMoreover, Covert (1997) recommends that in order to have an effective BPR team, it must be kept under ten players. If the organization fails to keep the team at a manageable size, the entire process will be much more difficult to execute efficiently and effectively. The efforts of the team must be focused on identifying breakthrough opportunities and designing new work steps or processes that will create quantum gains and competitive advantage.\n\nAnother important factor in the success of any BPR effort is performing a thorough business needs analysis. Too often, BPR teams jump directly into the technology without first assessing the current processes of the organization and determining what exactly needs reengineering. In this analysis phase, a series of sessions should be held with process owners and stakeholders, regarding the need and strategy for BPR. These sessions build a consensus as to the vision of the ideal business process. They help identify essential goals for BPR within each department and then collectively define objectives for how the project will affect each work group or department on individual basis and the business organization as a whole. The idea of these sessions is to conceptualize the ideal business process for the organization and build a business process model. Those items that seem unnecessary or unrealistic may be eliminated or modified later on in the diagnosing stage of the BPR project. It is important to acknowledge and evaluate all ideas in order to make all participants feel that they are a part of this important and crucial process. Results of these meetings will help formulate the basic plan for the project.\n\nThis plan includes the following: \nThe business needs analysis contributes tremendously to the re-engineering effort by helping the BPR team to prioritize and determine where it should focus its improvements efforts.\n\nThe business needs analysis also helps in relating the BPR project goals back to key business objectives and the overall strategic direction for the organization. This linkage should show the thread from the top to the bottom of the organization, so each person can easily connect the overall business direction with the re-engineering effort. This alignment must be demonstrated from the perspective of financial performance, customer service, associate value, and the vision for the organization. Developing a business vision and process objectives relies, on the one hand, on a clear understanding of organizational strengths, weaknesses, and market structure, and on the other, on awareness and knowledge about innovative activities undertaken by competitors and other organizations. \nBPR projects that are not in alignment with the organization’s strategic direction can be counterproductive. There is always a possibility that an organization may make significant investments in an area that is not a core competency for the company and later outsource this capability. Such reengineering initiatives are wasteful and steal resources from other strategic projects. Moreover, without strategic alignment, the organization’s key stakeholders and sponsors may find themselves unable to provide the level of support the organization needs in terms of resources, especially if there are other more critical projects to the future of the business, and are more aligned with the strategic direction.\n\nResearchers consider adequate IT infrastructure reassessment and composition as a vital factor in successful BPR implementation. Hammer (1990) prescribes the use of IT to challenge the assumptions inherent in the work process that have existed since long before the advent of modern computer and communications technology. Factors related to IT infrastructure have been increasingly considered by many researchers and practitioners as a vital component of successful BPR efforts. \n\nThese are vital factors that contribute to building an effective IT infrastructure for business processes. BPR must be accompanied by strategic planning which addresses leveraging IT as a competitive tool. An IT infrastructure is made up of physical assets, intellectual assets, shared services, and their linkages. The way in which the IT infrastructure components are composed and their linkages determines the extent to which information resources can be delivered. An effective IT infrastructure composition process follows a top-down approach, beginning with business strategy and IS strategy and passing through designs of data, systems, and computer architecture.\n\nLinkages between the IT infrastructure components, as well as descriptions of their contexts of interaction, are important for ensuring integrity and consistency among the IT infrastructure components. Furthermore, IT standards have a major role in reconciling various infrastructure components to provide shared IT services that are of a certain degree of effectiveness to support business process applications, as well as to guide the process of acquiring, managing, and utilizing IT assets. The IT infrastructure shared services and the human IT infrastructure components, in terms of their responsibilities and their needed expertise, are both vital to the process of the IT infrastructure composition. IT strategic alignment is approached through the process of integration between business and IT strategies, as well as between IT and organizational infrastructures.\n\nMost analysts view BPR and IT as irrevocably linked. Walmart, for example, would not have been able to reengineer the processes used to procure and distribute mass-market retail goods without IT. Ford was able to decrease its headcount in the procurement department by 75 percent by using IT in conjunction with BPR, in another well-known example. The IT infrastructure and BPR are interdependent in the sense that deciding the information requirements for the new business processes determines the IT infrastructure constituents, and a recognition of IT capabilities provides alternatives for BPR. Building a responsive IT infrastructure is highly dependent on an appropriate determination of business process information needs. This, in turn, is determined by the types of activities embedded in a business process, and their sequencing and reliance on other organizational processes.\n\nAl-Mashari and Zairi (2000) suggest that BPR involves changes in people behavior and culture, processes, and technology. As a result, there are many factors that prevent the effective implementation of BPR and hence restrict innovation and continuous improvement. Change management, which involves all human and social related changes and cultural adjustment techniques needed by management to facilitate the insertion of newly designed processes and structures into working practice and to deal effectively with resistance, is considered by many researchers to be a crucial component of any BPR effort.One of the most overlooked obstacles to successful BPR project implementation is resistance from those whom implementers believe will benefit the most. Most projects underestimate the cultural effect of major process and structural change and as a result, do not achieve the full potential of their change effort. Many people fail to understand that change is not an event, but rather a management technique.\n\nChange management is the discipline of managing change as a process, with due consideration that employees are people, not programmable machines. Change is implicitly driven by motivation which is fueled by the recognition of the need for change. An important step towards any successful reengineering effort is to convey an understanding of the necessity for change. It is a well-known fact that organizations do not change unless people change; the better change is managed, the less painful the transition is.\n\nOrganizational culture is a determining factor in successful BPR implementation. Organizational culture influences the organization’s ability to adapt to change. Culture in an organization is a self-reinforcing set of beliefs, attitudes, and behavior. Culture is one of the most resistant elements of organizational behavior and is extremely difficult to change. BPR must consider current culture in order to change these beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors effectively. Messages conveyed from management in an organization continually enforce current culture. Change is implicitly driven by motivation which is fueled by the recognition of the need for change.\n\nThe first step towards any successful transformation effort is to convey an understanding of the necessity for change. Management rewards system, stories of company origin and early successes of founders, physical symbols, and company icons constantly enforce the message of the current culture. Implementing BPR successfully is dependent on how thoroughly management conveys the new cultural messages to the organization. These messages provide people in the organization with a guideline to predict the outcome of acceptable behavior patterns. People should be the focus for any successful business change.\nBPR is not a recipe for successful business transformation if it focuses on only computer technology and process redesign. In fact, many BPR projects have failed because they did not recognize the importance of the human element in implementing BPR. Understanding the people in organizations, the current company culture, motivation, leadership, and past performance is essential to recognize, understand, and integrate into the vision and implementation of BPR. If the human element is given equal or greater emphasis in BPR, the odds of successful business transformation increase substantially.\n\nMany organizational change theorists hold a common view of organizations adjusting gradually and incrementally and responding locally to individual crises as they arise Common elements are: \n\nIn conclusion, successful BPR can potentially create substantial improvements in the way organizations do business and can actually produce fundamental improvements for business operations. However, in order to achieve that, there are some key success factors that must be taken into consideration when performing BPR.\n\nBPR success factors are a collection of lessons learned from reengineering projects and from these lessons common themes have emerged. In addition, the ultimate success of BPR depends on the people who do it and on how well they can be committed and motivated to be creative and to apply their detailed knowledge to the reengineering initiative. Organizations planning to undertake BPR must take into consideration the success factors of BPR in order to ensure that their reengineering related change efforts are comprehensive, well-implemented, and have minimum chance of failure. This has been very beneficial in all terms\n\nMany companies used reengineering as a pretext to downsizing, though this was not the intent of reengineering's proponents; consequently, reengineering earned a reputation for being synonymous with downsizing and layoffs.\n\nIn many circumstances, reengineering has not always lived up to its expectations. Some prominent reasons include:\n\nOthers have claimed that reengineering was a recycled buzzword for commonly-held ideas. Abrahamson (1996) argued that fashionable management terms tend to follow a lifecycle, which for Reengineering peaked between 1993 and 1996 (Ponzi and Koenig 2002). They argue that Reengineering was in fact nothing new (as e.g. when Henry Ford implemented the assembly line in 1908, he was in fact reengineering, radically changing the way of thinking in an organization).\n\nThe most frequent critique against BPR concerns the strict focus on efficiency and technology and the disregard of people in the organization that is subjected to a reengineering initiative. Very often, the label BPR was used for major workforce reductions. Thomas Davenport, an early BPR proponent, stated that:\n\n\"When I wrote about \"business process redesign\" in 1990, I explicitly said that using it for cost reduction alone was not a sensible goal. And consultants Michael Hammer and James Champy, the two names most closely associated with reengineering, have insisted all along that layoffs shouldn't be the point. But the fact is, once out of the bottle, the reengineering genie quickly turned ugly.\"\nHammer similarly admitted that:\n\n\"I wasn't smart enough about that. I was reflecting my engineering background and was insufficient appreciative of the human dimension. I've learned that's critical.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30554999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30554999", "title": "Cameron Sanders", "text": "Cameron Sanders\n\nRonald L. \"Cameron\" Sanders (born May 30, 1958) is an American journalist.\n\nHe served as business editor and host of public radio's \"Marketplace\" and a correspondent for CNN from 1989–1993, being based in Los Angeles. He served as a Vice President of A. G. Edwards (now Wells Fargo Advisors) from 1993–2002, based in St. Louis, Missouri. Following his time at CNN and public radio, Sanders was President of the Media Communications Association-International and Chairman of the University City, Missouri Commission for Access and Local Original Programming (CALOP), which allocated funds derived from cable TV subscribers to fund local filmmakers to create quality programs about local culture, arts and history. While CALOP Chair (and, later, Executive Director), he hosted \"Liquid Light,\" a prime time cable television show on the Higher Education Consortium cable channel (HEC-TV) in the St. Louis region (2003–2008), which featured local filmmakers and documentarians.\n"}
{"id": "21605374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21605374", "title": "Daniel Mattes", "text": "Daniel Mattes\n\nDaniel Mattes (born November 14, 1972) is an Austrian internet entrepreneur and business angel. He is the founder and CEO of Artificial Intelligence company 42.cx and a judge and business angel on the Austrian television show '2 Minuten 2 Millionen', the Austrian version of Shark Tank, which airs on Puls4.\n\nHis 42.cx Center of Excellence for Artificial Intelligence focuses on the commercialization of Artificial Intelligence (\"AI\"). The company is based in Vienna, Austria and was incorporated in November 2015. Prior to 42.cx, in 2010, he founded Jumio, an online authentication company.\n\nPrior to Jumio, in 2005, he founded VoIP company Jajah which was acquired 2009 for $207 million by Telefónica. In 2007, he was voted 81st most important Austrian citizen by Austrian magazine \"News\" in the \"1000 most important Austrians\" list.<ref name=\"NEWS Magazine 01/2007\"></ref>\n\nDaniel, oldest child of Edeltraud and Manfred Mattes, grew up in Freiburg, Germany and Wels, Austria. He has two brothers, Sebastian and Simon.\nHe studied Computer Science & Economics at the University of Linz (Austria), received the University diploma \"Certified e-Business Manager\" from the Danube University Krems (Austria) and did his post-graduate work in IT Management at the Danube University of Krems (Austria).\n\nIn 2015, Mattes founded \"42.cx Center of Excellence for Artificial Intelligence\", a start-up that focuses on the commercialization of Artificial Intelligence (\"AI\"). The company is based in Vienna, Austria and was incorporated in November 2015.\n\nIn 2010, Mattes founded Jumio Inc., a start-up for online authentication.\n\nIn 2005, Mattes, with Roman Scharf formed Jajah. Mattes acted as Executive Chairman until 2009. During this time, they raised $35 million in venture funding from Deutsche Telekom AG, Intel Capital, Sequoia Capital and Globespan Capital Partners. After reaching 25 million clients worldwide, Jajah was acquired December 2009 by Telefónica for $207 million in an all-cash deal.\n\nIn 1999, Mattes co-founded the e-government solution company \"Auftrag.at\" with a direct co-ownership of the government owned publication \"Wiener Zeitung\". They lobbied to allow public tenders to be published on business websites. The company received Austria's Federal Award of Excellence in 2002 and has become the de facto standard for public tenders in Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "4963679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4963679", "title": "Davis Elkins", "text": "Davis Elkins\n\nDavis Elkins (January 24, 1876 – January 5, 1959) was a United States Senator from West Virginia. \n\nBorn in Washington, D.C., he attended the Lawrenceville School, Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts and Harvard University. During the Spanish–American War he enlisted as a private in the First West Virginia Volunteer Infantry, becoming assistant adjutant general in 1898.\n\nElkins was an industrialist with interests in railroads, banking, utilities, and coal mining; he was appointed as a Republican to the U.S. Senate to fill the vacancy caused by the death of his father, Stephen B. Elkins, and served from January 9 to January 31, 1911, when a successor was elected. During the First World War he served in the United States Army in France, 1917–18. He was then elected to the U.S. Senate and served from March 4, 1919, to March 3, 1925; he was not a candidate for renomination in 1924. While in the Senate he was chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Department of Commerce (Sixty-sixth Congress).\n\nFrom 1936 to 1956 he was owner of the Washington and Old Dominion Railroad Company. Davis Elkins died in Richmond, Virginia in 1959; interment was in Maplewood Cemetery, Elkins, West Virginia.\n\nDavis Elkins was a son of Stephen Benton Elkins and a grandson of Henry Gassaway Davis, both U.S. Senators from West Virginia. He was married to Mary Reagan Elkins and had 3 children. His sister Katherine Hallie \"Kitty\" Elkins (Jan. 14, 1886 – Sept. 3, 1936) was engaged for some time to Prince Luigi Amedeo, Duke of the Abruzzi (1873–1933), a cousin of the king of Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "50447427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50447427", "title": "Drone Papers", "text": "Drone Papers\n\nThe Drone Papers is a leak of national security documents published by \"The Intercept\" in October 2015 on the United States's use of drone warfare. The leak revealed the bureaucratic process of approving a drone strike.\n\nMicah Zenko of \"Foreign Policy\" wrote that the Drone Papers \"mandate a Congressional investigation\" but did not expect one to happen during the Obama administration. \"The Guardian\" wrote that the documents showed that close to 90 percent of United States drone killings in a five-month period did not kill the intended target.\n"}
{"id": "2903446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2903446", "title": "Dump leaching", "text": "Dump leaching\n\nDump leaching is an industrial process to extract precious metals and copper from ores.\n\nDump leaching is similar to heap leaching, however in the case of dump leaching ore is taken directly from the mine and stacked on the leach pad without crushing where, in the case of gold and silver, the dump is irrigated with a dilute cyanide solution that percolates through the ore to dissolve gold and silver. The solution containing gold and silver exits the base of the dump, is collected and precious metals extracted. The resultant barren solution is recharged with additional cyanide and returned to the dump.\n\nThis method of leaching is usually suitable for low grade ores because it is very low cost. However, it operates with slow kinetics and may take up about 1 to 2 years to extract 50% of the desired mineral.\n"}
{"id": "9745603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9745603", "title": "Enhanced use lease", "text": "Enhanced use lease\n\nIn the United States Enhanced Use Lease (EUL) is a method for funding construction or renovations on federal property by allowing a private developer to lease underutilized property, with rent paid by the developer in the form of cash or in-kind services. Currently, EULs are used by the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration. Temporary authority has also been granted to the General Services Agency and the National Aeronatics and Space Administration. EUL authority is derived from Congress and is specific to each agency (e.g. 10 USC 2667 for the DoD). The information below is specific to DoD EULs.\n\nGranted a ground lease (the term may vary by agency or project), the developer is able to make improvements to the property which can be leased at market rents to any interested tenants. Under EUL, the U.S. government retains control over the leased property, the EUL developer (lessee) retaines a lease interest only.\n\nSince the agency can issue enhanced use leases only on land that is unneeded, the improvements must not be directly tied to any programmatic requirements of the installation. \n\nThe advantages to the developer include prime secure convenient locations on military installations, and the opportunity to provide sole-source services and products in lieu of rent for the ground lease. \n\nThe advantages to the federal agency include the possibility of fast-tracking alterations, repairs or new construction so that the improved space becomes available for lease. In-kind considerations or cash to no less than the fair market value of the property is provided in return by the developer.\n\nThe enhanced use lease is becoming a very popular tool to accommodate realignment of military functions under Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). Military installations are legally bound, but not necessarily funded, to accommodate BRAC-mandated realignments of functions. \n\nThe use of EULs has mushroomed with the expanded authority of Title 10 USC, Section 2667, of the National Defense Authorization Act. It remains to be seen whether this form of privatization will create increased financial, security or environmental risks. Legal complications that have emerged include how EUL-encumbered property will be treated when an installation is targeted for closure under BRAC (example, Building 40 at Walter Reed).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18901843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18901843", "title": "Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Detroit Branch Building", "text": "Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Detroit Branch Building\n\nThe Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Detroit Branch Building is a bank building located at 160 West Fort Street in downtown Detroit, Michigan. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2008.\n\nIn 1913 the United States Congress created the Federal Reserve System, which established twelve regional Federal Reserve Banks, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Detroit was included in the Chicago region. Regional banks had the authority to create branch offices, and in 1917 the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago authorized the establishment of a Detroit Branch. In March 1918, the Detroit Branch opened, operating out of three local institutions. However, Detroit operations soon outgrew this operation, and in 1921 a site was chosen for a new building.\n\nThis site was within the Detroit Financial District, at a location that had once been part of Fort Shelby. After the fort was demolished, the land associated with it was divided into lots. Hiram Walker purchased several lots and constructed a house there. After Walker's death, the University Club purchased the house, and in 1916 the property was purchased by James Couzens. Couzens sold the land this building is located on to the Federal Reserve in 1921. In 1926, Congress authorized the construction of this building. The Federal Reserve hired the Chicago firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst & White to design it, and construction began in 1927.\n\nThe building officially opened in December 1927. However, by the early 1940s, the branch office had outgrown the building's capacity. In 1945, the Federal Reserve purchased lots adjacent to the building, and hired the firm of Smith, Hinchman & Grylls to design an annex. The firm's head designer, Minoru Yamasaki, planned the building. Construction began in 1949, and by 1951, the eight-story glass-and-marble annex, was opened. The Modern annex is clearly designed not to mimic the original building, but to make a statement all its own. After completion of the annex, the original building was gutted and renovated, and the entire complex was opened in 1953.\n\nIn 2004, the Federal Reserve Bank moved to a new building at 1600 East Warren Avenue, leaving the building on Fort empty. A developer purchased the building with the intention of creating loft space. However, Dan Gilbert purchased the building on January 30, 2012.\n\nIn February 2014, the Detroit Media Partnership, parent of the Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News, announced all three organizations would occupy six floors in both the old and new sections of the building. The partnership expected to place signs on the exterior similar to those on the former headquarters. The move took place October 24–27, 2014.\n\nThe Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Detroit Branch Building consists of a 1927 three-and-one-half-story marble-faced Classical Revival bank building and a 1951 eight-story International Style Annex. The Annex is set back 30 feet from the front of the original building, and a small raised plaza is sited in front of the Annex and beside the original building. The floor levels of the two buildings are aligned, and the original building was gutted with the Annex was constructed, providing a seamless transition between the structures. The fourth floor of the original building was demolished to provide space for a penthouse projecting from the Annex, and a terrace for outdoor seating.\n\nThe original 1927 building measures 75 feet by 130 feet, and has a black marble base approximately four feet high, with the upper section sheathed in white marble. A heavy stringcourse above the second-story windows separates the lower floors from the third (attic) story. The first-floor windows are multi-paned six-over-six windows with a cast-iron spandrel between each pair. The second and third floors originally had one-over-one double-hung windows, but these have been replaced with a single pane. The original main entrance of the building was eliminated in the 1951 renovation.\n\nThe 1951 Annex measures 115 feet by 100 feet. The curtain walls are constructed from a grid of stainless steel from which 1-1/2\" marble slabs are suspended. The ground floor is divided into seven bays by marble piers. The curtain walls on the upper floors extend three feet beyond the recessed ground floor piers. The white marble used in this structure was carefully chosen to match the color of the original building, and the glass was tinted green to reduce glare.\n"}
{"id": "30857635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857635", "title": "Foreign Military Sales", "text": "Foreign Military Sales\n\nThe U.S. Department of Defense's Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program facilitates sales of U.S. arms, defense equipment, defense services, and military training to foreign governments. The purchaser does not deal directly with the defense contractor; instead, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency serves as an intermediary, usually handling procurement, logistics and delivery and often providing product support, training, and infrastructure construction (such as hangars, runways, utilities, etc.). The Defense Contract Management Agency often accepts FMS equipment on behalf of the US government.\n\nFMS is based on countries being authorized to participate, cases as the mechanism to procure services, and a deposit in a US Trust Fund or appropriate credit and approval to fund services.\n\nSome U.S. Air Force FMS programs are assigned two-word codenames beginning with the word PEACE, indicating oversight by USAF Headquarters. The second word in these codenames is often chosen to reflect some facet of the customer, such as MARBLE for Israel or ONYX for Turkey. Codenames appear in all capital letters.\n\nNo partner nation has yet succeeded in applying strict schedule clauses to a FMS program.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1036805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036805", "title": "Giovanni Arnolfini", "text": "Giovanni Arnolfini\n\nGiovanni di Nicolao Arnolfini (c. 1400 – after 1452) was a merchant from Lucca, a city in Tuscany, Italy, who spent most of his life in Flanders, then part of the Duchy of Burgundy, probably always based in Bruges, a wealthy trading city and one of the main towns of the Burgundian court.\n\nThe Arnolfini were a powerful family in Lucca, involved in the politics and trade of the small but wealthy city, which specialised (like Florence) in weaving expensive cloth. \n\nGiovanni, called here \"di Nicolao\" or \"son of Nicolao\" to distinguish him from his cousin \"Giovanni di Arrigo Arnolfini\" (see below), moved to Bruges in Flanders at an early age to work in the family business and lived there for the rest of his life. He became wealthy trading in silk and other fabrics, tapestries and other precious objects, although in later years he seems to have suffered business reverses, and to have retired from trading. His fame arises because he is the most likely candidate, out of a number of male Arnolfinis, to have been the subject of two portraits by Jan van Eyck, the famous Flemish painter. These are: \"The Arnolfini Portrait\" of Giovanni and his wife, dated 1434 and now in London, and another portrait, evidently of the same sitter when slightly older, now in Berlin (below). \n\nHe was presumably born in Lucca, where his parents lived, but neither the place nor the date are documented. He was sent to Bruges whilst still technically a child, as the first record of him is a letter from his father Nicolao in Lucca to his agent in Bruges in 1419 empowering the agent to \"emancipate\" Giovanni - that is, to declare him adult. Since there was no fixed age for this, it gives no real clue as to his date of birth. \n\nIn the next few years Giovanni di Nicolao worked with a very successful Italian merchant, Marco Guidiccioni, another Lucchese who was connected to him by marriage. Records of some of his dealings with the Ducal court have survived, but these were probably only part of his business activities. In 1422 he tried to sell a valuable gold collar to King Henry V of England, and 1423 he sold Duke Phillip the Good six tapestries of scenes from the life of the Virgin, which the Duke gave to the Pope. Other sales to the Court are recorded, although he may have been acting on behalf of Guidiccioni. \n\nIn 1426 he married Costanza Trenta, who is at first sight not the wife in the portrait, as a letter by her mother of February 26, 1433 mentions that she had died. She was also from Lucca, and her aunt Ginevra Cavalcanti was married to Lorenzo de' Medici, brother of Cosimo de' Medici. On the other hand, Margaret Koster has recently proposed that the double portrait may be a memorial one, including an image of Costanza, but painted a year after her death. \n\nIn 1442 he signed an agreement whereby, for a moderate fee, he became a burgess of Bruges after promising not to trade as a merchant. He was permitted to practise \"the small burgess's crafts\", but whether he ever did is unknown. In 1446 and 1452 he is documented as an arbitrator in disputes between other Lucchese merchants (in 1446 including his cousin Giovanni) over property; these are his last appearances in the documentary record. The double portrait remained in Flanders (see the Provenance section in that article), which suggests that Giovanni died there. \n\nThere is no documentary evidence of a further marriage, but one has been assumed by art historians; it is not at all implausible that such a marriage would be undocumented. The appearance of the woman in the double portrait perhaps suggests she was Flemish, rather than Italian.\n\nA slightly younger first cousin of Giovanni, called Giovanni de Arrigo Arnolfini, (or \"Jehan Arnoulphin le jeune\" by the Burgundian accountants) also came to live in Bruges and was even more successful than Giovanni de Nicolao. 'Giovanni de Arrigo Arnolfini married, and was survived by, Giovanna (Jeanne) Cenami, and they were the couple thought to be the shown in the Arnolfini Portrait from 1861 until 1994, when a French naval historian, Jacques Paviot, discovered in the Ducal accounts that the Duke had in 1447 presented two silver pots to \"Jehan Arnoulphin\" on his marriage - by this time Van Eyck had been dead for six years. Jane or Jeanne Arnolfini is documented further until her death in Bruges in 1480. A further two Arnolfinis, each a younger brother of one of the two Giovannis, are possible candidates as the subject of the Van Eyck portraits, as they lived in, or passed through, Bruges; but neither was apparently there in 1434. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24770329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24770329", "title": "Global Infrastructure Partners", "text": "Global Infrastructure Partners\n\nGlobal Infrastructure Partners (GIP) is an infrastructure investment fund making both equity and selected debt investments. GIP is headquartered in New York City and its equity investments are in infrastructure assets in the energy, transport and water/waste sectors. GIP employs approximately 150 investment and operational professionals and has offices in New York, London and Sydney and operational headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. In the aggregate, its portfolio companies employ approximately 21,000 people.\n\nGlobal Infrastructure Partners was established in May 2006. Two of GIP's founding investors in its first fund, GIP I, were Credit Suisse and General Electric. Each of these investors committed approximately 9% of the US$5.64 billion of GIP I's total committed capital.\n\nThe firm's first investment was announced in October 2006. It was a 50:50 joint venture between GIP and American International Group (AIG) to acquire London City Airport (LCY) for an undisclosed sum. GIP announced the sale of LCY in February 2016 for a significant multiple of its 2006 acquisition price.\n\nSubsequently, GIP has made two additional airport investments: the October 2009 acquisition of Gatwick Airport, the second largest airport in the United Kingdom by passenger traffic, for £1.5 billion from BAA and the 2012 acquisition of Edinburgh Airport for £807 million.\n\nAdditionally, GIP has made a cross section of investments in other areas of the transport sector as well as the natural resource and power generation areas of the energy sector. These assets include sea ports, freight rail facilities, midstream natural resources and power generation businesses.\nGlobal Infrastructure Partners' first fund, GIP I, completed its fund raising in May 2008 with $5.64 billion in investor capital commitments. The fund became fully invested during 2012. \nIn September 2012, GIP's second fund, GIP II, completed fund raising with US$8.25 billion in investor capital commitments, making it the largest independent infrastructure fund in the world at that time. Exceeding what it had initially projected, GIP's third fund—GIP III—completed fund raising in January 2017 with approximately $15.8 billion in investor capital commitments. \n\nAs of September 2018, Global Infrastructure Partners had aggregate assets under management of approximately US$48 billion with its investments largely concentrated in OECD countries. At this time, the Fund's portfolio included investments in the following assets:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10867543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10867543", "title": "Henry Chesbrough", "text": "Henry Chesbrough\n\nHenry William Chesbrough (born 1956) is an American organizational theorist, adjunct professor and the faculty director of the Garwood Center for Corporate Innovation at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. He is known for coining the term open innovation.\n\nChesbrough holds a BA in Economics from Yale University, an MBA from Stanford Graduate School of Business, and a PhD from the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nHe taught at the Harvard Business School as an assistant professor and Class of 1961 Fellow from 1997 to 2003. He is currently an adjunct professor and the faculty director of the Garwood Center for Corporate Innovation at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nHe acts as the chairman of the Open Innovation Center - Brazil. His first appearance in Brazil was in 2008, when he did a presentation in the Open Innovation Seminar 2008. He also acts as the chairman of board of advisors for Induct Software and appeared in Oslo on the 2011 Oslo Innovation Week\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18223340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18223340", "title": "Hisham Mackie", "text": "Hisham Mackie\n\nHisham Mackie (born 1969) is a Sierra Leonean businessman. He is by far the biggest diamond exporter from Sierra Leone, accounting for 51% of all official Sierra Leone diamond exports Mackie runs H.M Diamond, a company which accounted for 40% of all diamond exports in 2005.\n\nHisham Mackie was born in Freetown, Sierra Leone in April, 6, 1969 to a Sierra Leonean-Lebanese family which has been in the diamond business since 1952. His father, a second generation Sierra Leonean-Lebanese, was among the first diamond dealers licensed by the Sierra Leone government during the early sixtees. Mackie did his secondary education at the famous and elite Bo School in Bo and graduated in 1986. After graduating from the Bo School, he went to England where he attended the University of London in 1987. Mackie joined the diamond business in 2002 as an export license holder.\n"}
{"id": "7555440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7555440", "title": "Import license", "text": "Import license\n\nAn import license is a document issued by a national government authorizing the importation of certain goods into its territory. Import licenses are considered to be non-tariff barriers to trade when used as a way to discriminate against another country's goods in order to protect a domestic industry from foreign competition.\n\nEach license specifies the volume of imports allowed, and the total volume allowed should not exceed the quota. Licenses can be sold to importing companies at a competitive price, or simply a fee. However, it is argued that this allocation methods provides incentives for political lobbying and bribery. Government may put certain restrictions on what is imported as well as the amount of imported goods and services. For example, if a business wishes to import agricultural products such as vegetables, then the government may be concerned about the impact of such importations of the local market and thus impose a restriction.\n\nThe Système Intégré de Gestion de Licenses (SIGL) is the European Union Directorate General for Trade's integrated IT system for the management of licences for imports of textiles, clothing, footwear, steel and wood to the EU.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22066200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22066200", "title": "J. Sterling Livingston", "text": "J. Sterling Livingston\n\nJ. Sterling Livingston (June 7, 1916 – February 14, 2010) was an American entrepreneur, management consultant, and professor at the Harvard Business School for 25 years.\n\nSterling was born in Salt Lake City, Utah on June 7, 1916, and grew up in and near Chino, Glendale and Pomona, California. He worked as a wiper on board a cargo ship, then attended Glendale Junior College, the University of Southern California and the Harvard Business School, where he received his Master of Business Administration in 1940. During the Second World War he taught the Navy Supply Corps.\n\nFollowing the war Sterling received his PhD in Business Administration from Harvard, where he became a professor and taught for 25 years. His articles \"Myth of the Well-Educated Manager\" and \"Pygmalion in Management\" were published in the \"Harvard Business Review\". He founded or co-founded several consulting companies including the Logistics Management Institute.\n\nSterling died on February 14, 2010, and was buried at the Columbia Gardens Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "4164944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4164944", "title": "James Turner Morehead (North Carolina)", "text": "James Turner Morehead (North Carolina)\n\nJames Turner Morehead is the name shared by two separate individuals, uncle and nephew, who were members of a prominent nineteenth-century North Carolina family.\n\nThe first James Turner Morehead (January 11, 1799 – May 5, 1875) was the younger brother of North Carolina Govorner John Motley Morehead and a Congressional Representative from North Carolina; born in Rockingham County, North Carolina, January 11, 1799; attended the common schools; was graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1819; studied law; was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in Greensboro, North Carolina; commissioner of Greensboro in 1832, 1834, and 1835; served as a member of the North Carolina Senate in 1835, 1836, 1838, 1840, and 1842; trustee of the University of North Carolina 1836-1868; elected as a Whig to the Thirty-second Congress (March 4, 1851 - March 4, 1853); declined to be a candidate for renomination in 1852 to the Thirty-third Congress; resumed the practice of his profession; also engaged in agricultural pursuits and operated an iron works; died in Greensboro, Guilford County, N.C., on May 5, 1875; interment in the Presbyterian Cemetery.\n\nThe second James Turner Morehead (1840-1908) was the son of Governor John Motley Morehead. He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1861. Commissioned a lieutenant in the Confederate army, he was wounded at Bristoe Station, Virginia in 1863. Following the war, he served two terms as a state senator (1870-1874). He became a pioneering chemical manufacturer, who with his son, John Motley Morehead III founded one of the world's leading chemical companies -- Union Carbide. He was a serial entrepreneur, chemist, engineer, inventor and author of scientific works. He had one son John Motley Morehead III chemist, industrialist, and noted philanthropist (0 children) and four daughters: Mary Kerr Morehead Harris (2 children: Trent Harris, William Nelson Harris), Eliza Lindsay Morehead Nelson (1 child: William Harris Nelson), Lilly Connolly Morehead Mebane (0 children), and Emma Gray Morehead Parrish (0 children).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15392333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15392333", "title": "John A. Creighton", "text": "John A. Creighton\n\nCount John Andrew Creighton (October 15, 1831 – February 7, 1907) was a pioneer businessman and philanthropist in Omaha, Nebraska who founded Creighton University. The younger brother of Edward Creighton, John was responsible for a variety of institutions throughout the city of Omaha, and was ennobled by Pope Leo XIII in recognition of his contributions to Creighton University, the Catholic community in Omaha, and the city of Omaha in general.\n\nBorn in Licking County, Ohio, Creighton's first job was working for his brother Edward, installing a telegraph line from Cleveland to Toledo. In 1852 he enrolled in St. Joseph's Dominican School near Somerset, Ohio. In 1856 he came to Omaha as a clerk with a local merchant, and in 1860 he took two jobs moving cattle and freight from Omaha to Denver, Colorado. Around that same period Edward accepted a contract installing of the Pacific Telegraph, the First Transcontinental Telegraph in the United States. John was hired as the superintendent of the construction. In the early 1860s Creighton traveled to Montana to mine gold, eventually installing a telegraph line from Salt Lake City, Utah to Helena, Montana.\n\nDuring Creighton's life in Montana he is credited with helping rid the state of the desperados who made it inhospitable towards settlement. In 1865 after he was assaulted and his leg was broken, a local newspaper wrote, \"We believe that the only way to kill John Creighton would be to cut his head off and then carry away the body.\" During this same period of time Creighton was named a \"Colonel\" by Montana's acting Governor General Thomas Francis Meagher.\n\nIn 1868 John Creighton returned to Omaha permanently, where he established a grocery business in Jobber's Canyon. In 1868 John married Sarah Emily Wareham, the sister of Mary Lucretia Creighton, who was married to John's brother Edward. When Edward died suddenly in 1874, his wife Mary became committed to his notion of creating a free college in Nebraska. She died in 1876, leaving a considerable amount of money along with strict instructions for the foundation of the college in her husband's honor. John, his cousin James, and Herman Kountze, a banker and family friend, were the executors of Edwards will. Acting in that capacity they purchased the present site of the University and proceeded to erect what is now called Creighton Hall.\n\nJohn's wife Sarah died September 3, 1888; before her death she bequeathed a business block near Downtown Omaha to the yet-to-be-established Creighton College. By the early 1890s he was attributed to holding, \"more of the valuable real estate of the city [of Omaha] than any other individual.\" He owned a railroad company, was a large stockholder in the Omaha Cable Tramway Company, heavily interested in the South Omaha syndicate responsible for building up much of that area, and was Vice-President of the First National Bank of Omaha.\n\nIn 1884 Creighton was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention at Chicago where Grover Cleveland was nominated for President of the United States.\n\nFrom its founding in 1878 to the time of his death in 1907 Creighton was said to have donated at least $2,000,000 to Creighton University. In 1888 Creighton financed the Creighton University Observatory, and in 1898 he gave money towards a medical school, which was named in his honor. In 1904 he created the Edward Creighton Institute. Creighton is also credited with establishing Omaha's St. Joseph's Hospital and bringing the first monastery of the Poor Clares in the country to the city. He paid for almost the entire cost of St. John's Parish at Creighton, where the cornerstone was laid in 1888.\n\nToday Creighton University in Omaha is viewed as being named in honor of the entire Creighton family, particularly John and his brother Edward, as well as their wives Sara and Emily. He was named a Knight of St. Gregory on January 15, 1895 by Pope Leo XIII, and in 1898 was titled a Count by the same. In 1900 Creighton received the Laetare Medal from the University of Notre Dame. Omaha's John A. Creighton Boulevard was named after him immediately after his death in 1907, as is the existent \"John A. Creighton University Professorship\" at Creighton University.\n\nThe Creighton Orpheum Theater in Downtown Omaha was named in honor of John after he donated a significant portion of its construction costs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21542458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21542458", "title": "John Dandridge", "text": "John Dandridge\n\nCol. John Dandridge Jr. of Chestnut Grove (13/14 July 1700 – 31 August 1756) was a distinguished colonel, planter, politician, and Clerk of the Courts of New Kent County, Virginia from 1730 to 1756. Dandridge is best known as the father of the first First Lady of the United States Martha Washington, wife of George Washington, the first president of the United States.\n\nBorn on 13 July 1700 in England, Dandridge was the youngest son of Col. John Dandridge Sr. (Oxford, Oxfordshire, April 29, 1655 - Oxford, Oxfordshire, 1731), and wife (m. St. Mary Magdalen, London, 1676) Bridget Dugdale (Oxford, Oxfordshire, c. 1656 - 1731); paternal grandson of Capt. William Dandridge I (Drayton St. Leonard, Oxfordshire, England, 30 January 1612 - Dorchester Abbey, Dorchester On Thames, England, July 1693) and wife; and great-grandson of Col. Bartholomew Dandridge I (England, c. 1580 - Drayton St. Leonard, Oxfordshire, England, 21 September 1638) and wife (m. England, 10 May 1604) Agnes Wilder (c. 1585 - c. 1650). He immigrated to Virginia at the age of 14 in 1715.\n\nDandridge married Frances Orlando Jones, daughter of Orlando Jones and Martha Macon Jones West, on 22 July 1730 in New Kent County, Virginia. John and Frances had eight children:\n\n\nUpon their marriage in 1730, John and Frances moved to their new home on the banks of the Pamunkey River in New Kent County, Virginia, Chestnut Grove. John became Clerk of Courts in New Kent County and kept that position for the next 26 years. He was also vestryman and churchwarden for St. Peter's Church. John was a prominent planter, and a colonel in his military district.\n\nJohn's older brother, William Dandridge II (1689–1743), lived on the opposite bank of the river with his wife Unity West Dandridge, daughter of Nathaniel West and wife Martha Woodard Macon, at their estate, Elsing Green, in King William County. Chestnut Grove burned down in 1926, but its former site was only four miles from the location of the current county court house for New Kent.\n\nAlong with Chestnut Grove in New Kent, John and Frances also owned a house in Williamsburg and visited there frequently.\n\nDandridge died on 31 August 1756 at the age of 56 in Fredericksburg, Virginia. Dandridge is interred at St. George's Episcopal Church burial ground in Fredericksburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "20063076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20063076", "title": "John Fairfax, 11th Lord Fairfax of Cameron", "text": "John Fairfax, 11th Lord Fairfax of Cameron\n\nJohn Contee Fairfax, 11th Lord Fairfax, (September 18, 1830 – September 25, 1900) was an American born Scottish peer.\n\nJohn Contee Fairfax was born at Vaucluse, Virginia, the second son of Albert Fairfax (April 15, 1802 – May 9, 1835) and Caroline Eliza Snowden (April 21, 1812 – December 28, 1899), who were married on April 7, 1828. His elder brother was Charles S. Fairfax, 10th Lord Fairfax of Cameron.\n\nHe married Mary Kirby, daughter of Col. Edward Kirby, in 1857. They had the following children:\n\nHe died at age 70 in his country home Northampton, in Prince George's County, Maryland. At the time of his death he was the only British peer with American citizenship.\n\n"}
{"id": "416356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416356", "title": "Julia Gardiner Tyler", "text": "Julia Gardiner Tyler\n\nJulia Gardiner Tyler (May 4, 1820 – July 10, 1889) was the second wife of John Tyler, who was the tenth President of the United States, and served as the First Lady of the United States from June 26, 1844, to March 4, 1845.\n\nJulia Gardiner Tyler was born in 1820 on New York's Gardiner's Island, one of the largest privately owned islands in the United States. She was the daughter of David Gardiner, a landowner and New York State Senator (1824 to 1828), and Juliana MacLachlan Gardiner. Her ancestry was part Dutch, part Scottish and part English.\n\nShe was raised in the town of East Hampton and the small hamlet of Bay Shore, and educated at the Chegary Institute in New York. In 1839, she shocked polite society by appearing, posed with an unidentified man and identified as \"The Rose of Long Island\", in a newspaper advertisement for a middle-class department store. Her family took her to Europe to avoid further publicity and allow her notoriety to subside. They first left for London, arriving on October 29, 1840. They visited England, France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, Belgium, Ireland and Scotland before returning to New York in September 1841.\n\nOn January 20, 1842, the 21-year-old Julia was introduced to President John Tyler at a White House reception. After the death of his first wife, Letitia Christian Tyler, on September 10, 1842, Tyler made it clear that he wished to get involved with Julia. Initially the high-spirited and independent-minded northern beauty felt little attraction to the grave, reserved Virginia gentleman, who was thirty years her senior. He first proposed to her on February 22, 1843, when she was 22, at a White House Masquerade Ball. She hated that and hated later proposals he made. The increased time spent together prompted public speculation about their relationship.\n\nJulia, her sister Margaret, and her father joined a Presidential excursion on the new steam frigate \"Princeton\". During this excursion, her father, David Gardiner, along with a number of others, lost his life in the explosion of a huge naval gun called the \"Peacemaker\". Julia was devastated by the death of her adored father. She spoke often in later years of how the President's quiet strength sustained her during this difficult time. Tyler comforted Julia in her grief and won her consent to a secret engagement, proposing in 1844 at the George Washington Ball.\n\nAfter a wedding trip to Philadelphia, a White House reception, and a stay at Sherwood Forest, an estate the president had recently acquired for his retirement, the newlyweds returned to Washington. Although her husband was often visibly fatigued, his youthful wife thoroughly enjoyed the duties of First Lady.\n\nThe anthem \"Hail to the Chief\" had been played at a number of events associated with the arrival or presence of the President of the United States before Julia Tyler became First Lady, but she ordered its regular use to announce the arrival of the President. It became established practice when her successor, Sarah Childress Polk did likewise.\n\nIn the last month of the Tyler administration, she hosted a grand White House ball for 3,000 guests.\n\nThe Tylers retired to Sherwood Forest, where they lived tranquilly until the Civil War. Although a northerner by birth, Mrs. Tyler soon grew accustomed to the leisurely routines of daily life as the wife of a wealthy plantation owner.\n\nJulia wrote a defense of slavery titled \"\"The Women of England vs. the Women of America\", in response to the \"Stafford House Address\"\" petition against slavery which the Duchess of Sutherland had helped to organize. In response to Julia Tyler's essay, Harriet Jacobs, a former slave and later abolitionist orator and writer, authored her first published work, a letter to the \"New York Tribune\" in 1853.\n\nAfter her husband's death in 1862, she lost her 60 slaves and 1100 acres of land due to military events. Julia moved north to Staten Island with several of her children, although family relations were so strained that her brother David Gardiner refused to travel to Virginia to escort her to New York and eventually moved out of his mother's house, where Julia had settled. Her home there was almost burned down by enraged Union veterans when it was discovered that she was flying a Confederate flag on the property. She resided at the Gardiner-Tyler House from 1868 to 1874. In 1865, her brother David sued to prevent her from inheriting the bulk of their mother's estate valued at $180,000, charging that Julia Tyler had exerted \"undue influences\" on their mother to execute a will despite her \"mental incapacity\". The court supported his claim on August 25 and refused to accept the will. After two appeals, David Gardiner won the case in 1867. David then asked the courts to partition the estate as if no will existed. Julia asked for a jury trial on the issue, and the jury declined to consider the contested will as an argument in her favor. The \"New York Times\" thought Julia was treated unfairly and that the dispute could be traced to \"the political antagonisms of the rebellion, which have divide many a household besides that of Mrs. Gardiner\".\nShe converted to Roman Catholicism and was re-baptized in May 1872. The depression that followed the Panic of 1873 depleted her finances. She returned to Virginia to live with the aid of her grown children. She lobbied Congress for a pension and was granted a monthly allowance in 1880. Following the assassination of President James Garfield in 1881, Congress granted an annual pension of $5000 to widows of former presidents.\n\nBecause of the circumstances surrounding her father's death, Julia and John agreed to marry with a minimum of celebration. On June 26, 1844, the President slipped into New York City, where the nuptials were performed by the Right Reverend Benjamin Treadwell Onderdonk, fourth bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York, at the Church of the Ascension, not too far from the Gardiner's residence on LaGrange Terrace. President Tyler was 54 years old, while Julia was just 24. Tyler's oldest daughter, Mary, was 5 years older than her father's new wife. The marriage made Julia the first First Lady to marry a President who was already in office at the time of the wedding.\n\nThe bride's sister, Margaret, and brother, Alexander, were bridesmaid and best man. Only the President's son, John Tyler III, represented the groom's family. Tyler was so concerned about maintaining secrecy that he did not confide his plans to the rest of his children. Although his sons readily accepted the sudden union, the Tyler daughters were shocked and hurt. The news was then broken to the American people, who greeted it with keen interest, much publicity, and some criticism about the couple's 30-year difference in age. It was awkward for the eldest Tyler daughter, Mary, to adjust to a new stepmother five years younger than herself. One daughter, Letitia, never made peace with her stepmother.\n\nBetween 1846 and 1860, Julia and John had seven children together:\n\n\nTyler suffered a stroke in Richmond and died there at the Exchange Hotel on July 10, 1889, aged 69. She was buried next to the president at Hollywood Cemetery in Richmond. Her funeral was held in Richmond at St. Peter's Cathedral on July 12, 1889, and was attended by Governor Fitzhugh Lee and Mayor James Taylor Ellyson, with the absolution performed by Bishop Augustine Van de Vyver.\n\nIn Bay Shore, Gardiner's Park, a wide expanse of virgin land with trails leading to the South Shore, Gardiner Drive and Gardiner Manor Elementary School are all named after her family. In 2009, the United States Mint honored the former First Lady with the issuance of a 24 karat gold coin. The papers of the Tyler family, including Julia Gardiner Tyler, are held by the Special Collections Research Center at the College of William and Mary.\n\nNotes\nSources\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "650885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650885", "title": "Leo Melamed", "text": "Leo Melamed\n\nLeo Melamed (born March 20, 1932) is an American attorney, finance executive, and a pioneer of financial futures. He is the chairman emeritus of CME Group (formerly the Chicago Mercantile Exchange).\n\nMelamed was born Leibel Melamdovich to a Jewish family in Bialystok, Poland, in 1932 to Isaac Melamdovich, a mathematics teacher. In 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, the family fled to Lithuania to avoid capture by the Nazis. In 1940, the Japanese consul general to Lithuania, Chiune Sugihara, issued his family a life-saving transit visa, and they made the long trek across Siberia to safe haven in Japan. They crossed the Pacific to the United States in the spring of 1941, and the family settled in Chicago. Melamed is an avid contract bridge competitor and often pairs with his wife, Betty.\n\nMelamed, an attorney by profession, became involved in futures trading by accident. In law school he was looking for a law clerk job and answered a want ad from a firm looking for a 'runner', thinking the firm, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, with that many names could be nothing but an established law firm, looking for a clerk to run to court. He worked as a runner in the produce futures markets of the CME throughout law school, learning about the business. He practiced law until 1965 and was elected to the CME board in 1967.\n\nMelamed became chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in 1969. In 1972, under his leadership, the CME created the International Monetary Market (IMM), the world's first financial futures exchange, and launched currency futures. In the years that followed, Melamed led the CME and IMM in the creation of a number of financial instruments, including futures on US Treasury bills in 1976, Eurodollars in 1981, and stock index futures in 1982.\n\nIn 1987, Melamed spearheaded the creation and introduction of Globex, the world's first electronic trading system, and became its founding chairman.\n\nThroughout the next three decades and into the 21st century, Melamed held many CME titles including: Special Counsel to the Board; Chairman of the Executive Committee; and Senior Policy Advisor, but remained the acknowledged leader of the CME. In 2002, he led the CME membership to become the first U.S. financial exchange to go public.\n\nIn 2014 he was a board member of CME Group and chairman of its Strategic Steering Committee.\n\nIn 1991 he founded his own consulting firm, Melamed & Associates, of which he is chairman and chief executive officer. He used to be a member of the global markets advisory committee of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and has served as a special advisor on futures markets to governments worldwide. Melamed serves on the prestigious Chinese International Advisory Council of Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC).\n\nTwenty years after their inception, Nobel Laureate in Economics, Merton Miller, named financial futures \"the most significant innovation of the past two decades.\" At the close of 1999, the former editor of the \"Chicago Tribune\" named Melamed \"among the ten most important Chicagoans in business of the 20th Century.\"\n\nHe was named a Lincoln Laureate in 2016 in the area of Business, Industry & Communications.\n\nMelamed has lectured and written extensively on the markets. His published works include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27679545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27679545", "title": "List of electronic trading protocols", "text": "List of electronic trading protocols\n\nElectronic Trading communications are based on a list of well-defined protocols.\n\nAlthough FIX protocol has grown significant market share, the exchange specific protocols (also called \"Native\" interfaces) have found a strong backing with low latency traders.\n\nList of Electronic Exchanges along with the protocols they currently expose as their E-Trading interface.\n"}
{"id": "7955419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7955419", "title": "Low-altitude parachute-extraction system", "text": "Low-altitude parachute-extraction system\n\nThe low-altitude parachute-extraction system (LAPES) is a tactical military airlift delivery method where a fixed wing cargo aircraft can deposit supplies in situations in which landing is not an option, in an area that is too small to accurately parachute supplies from a high altitude.\n\nThis method was developed by the US Military with the assistance of the 109th Quartermaster Company (Air Drop) in 1964. In May 1965, a detachment of the 109th was formed as the 383rd Quartermaster (Aerial Supply) Detachment and sent to Vietnam. In 1966 the 109th was sent to Vietnam and took operational control of the 383rd. Both units provided Air Drop and LAPES support during the Siege of Khe Sanh in the Vietnam War. LAPES was used to provide a method of supplying heavy loads into Khe Sanh which could not effectively be supplied by air drop. This practice was perfected at Mactan Air Base in Cebu, Philippines.\n\nPreparation for a LAPES delivery includes loading cargo on a pallet rigged with two types of parachutes (chutes). The drogue chute is used to pull a cluster of larger extraction chutes out. The deployed extraction chutes will then pull the load out of the plane. Floor locks hold the pallet in place until extraction time.\n\nThe LAPES delivery procedure begins by slowing to approach speed, lowering the ramp, and opening the cargo door. To preclude damage to the aircraft from an inadvertent contact with the ground, the landing gear is lowered. The aircraft approaches the extraction zone in a manner similar to landing. On command of the pilot, the drogue chute is released and allowed to trail behind the aircraft on a tether. As the pilot flares and achieves a wheel height of 1-2 meters above ground, the drogue chute is allowed to pull the extraction chutes out into the airstream. The force of these chutes overcomes the floor locks, pulling the pallet across the ramp, out of the aircraft, and onto the extraction zone. The pilot adjusts the flight controls to remain level during the extreme change in the aircraft center of gravity caused by the pallet movement. While the pallet slides to a stop using the extraction chutes as a brake, the pilot climbs away from the extraction zone and raises the landing gear. On climb out, the rear cargo door is closed and the ramp is raised, completing the sequence. \n\nLAPES enables planes to quickly deploy large cargo in a timely fashion instead of having to land and take off, which exposes the plane to enemy fire. The technique also allows delivery of loads that are too heavy for a direct parachute descent (high altitude drop). However, the drop sequence's low altitude allows for no margin of pilot error and the risk of plane crash is heightened. \n\nOn July 1, 1987, during a capabilities exercise (CAPEX), a USAF C-130E (68-10945 c/n 4325) crashed while performing a LAPES demo at the Sicily Drop Zone, on Fort Bragg. The pilot of the C-130 had performed a LAPES drop with the same extreme rate of descent two days earlier during a practice run. The crash killed three on board and one soldier on the ground, and injured two crew.\n\n"}
{"id": "54635141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54635141", "title": "Luigi Cremonini", "text": "Luigi Cremonini\n\nLuigi Cremonini (born 1939) is an Italian billionaire businessman. He is the chairman of Cremonini SpA and Inalca SpA, and the honorary president of the Chamber of Commerce ItalAfrica Centrale.\n\nCremonini was born in 1939, into a poor farming family near Modena, Italy. He studied farming in Bologna. In May 1994, the University of Bologna awarded him the honorary degree in veterinary medicine.\n\nIn 1963, Cremonini opened, with his brother Giuseppe a small butcher's shop, the start of the pan-European Cremonini Group, with an annual turnover of meat products of $3.6 billion, and Marr, Italy's largest food-service distributor.\n\nCremonini is married, with four children, and lives in Modena, Italy.\n\nIn 1985, he was awarded the Order of Orange-Nassau by the Queen Beatrix and appointed Cavalier of Labour by the President Alessandro Pertini. In October 2009, Cremonini was presented with an \"Italy in the World 2009\" award at the Italian Embassy in Moscow.\n"}
{"id": "3915166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3915166", "title": "Market correction", "text": "Market correction\n\nA market correction is a rapid change in the nominal price of a commodity, after a barrier to free trade has been removed and the free market establishes a new equilibrium price. It may also refer to several of these single-commodity corrections \"en masse\", as a collective effect over several markets concurrently.\n\n"}
{"id": "49765634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49765634", "title": "Michael Recanati", "text": "Michael Recanati\n\nMichael Recanati (1957–2015) was an American businessman and philanthropist.\n\nMichael Recanati was born in 1957. His father, Raphael Recanati was an Israeli-American businessman and philanthropist. Recanati was educated at Ramaz School in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nRecanati started his career at his family business, the Overseas Shipholding Group, in 1978. He was forced to leave OSG in 1995 after a dispute about the company's investments in cruise ships.\n\nRecanati founded Orama, a venture capital firm based in New York City and Tel Aviv, Israel, in 1999. It closed down in 2001. In 2008, Recanati founded Really Cool Foods, an organic food company. It closed down in 2011.\n\nRecanati served as the chairman of 511 Equities.\n\nRecanati endowed the Dina and Raphael Recanati Professorship in Immunology at the Harvard Medical School in honor of his parents in 1992. Dr Jerome Groopman is the current chair. He also endowed the Recanati Family Professor of Science and professor of Microbiology and Medicine at the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine at New York University \n\nIn 2002, Recanati and his partner Ira Statfeld made a $5 million donation to the then Hampton Day School, taking control of the board of trustees and changing the name of the school to the Morriss Center in honor of Statfeld's father, however the school merged with the Ross School in 2006. In 2007, it was reported that Recanati and his partner had donated $30 million to the Child Study Center at New York University to establish an Asperger's Institute.\nRecanati and his partner Ira Statfeld had one son. They resided in Manhattan and East Hampton, New York.\n\nHis partner at time of death was Tom Schalk. \n"}
{"id": "56890435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56890435", "title": "Mohammad al Duaij", "text": "Mohammad al Duaij\n\nMohammad Al Duaij (born 1980) is a Kuwaiti business man and entrepreneur. He became the chief executive officer of Alea Global Group in 2008.\n\nHe studied accounting and finance at Leeds University and graduated in 2002 and began his career by joining the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development as part of the Asian projects funding team. From 2004 to 2008 he worked as financial analyst and investment manager at Global Investment House in Kuwait.\n\nSince 2008 he is the CEO of his family office Alea Global Group. His family's business began by real estate investments in the gulf region, while Mohammad Al Duaij began to follow other business opportunities, too. Today, Alea Global Group is a conglomerate with a globe-spanning network of direct investments in real estate and private equity, commodities trading, and offers financial and investment advisory services.\n\nIn 2015 he became partner at Italian R & P Consulting. In this role he is responsible for the business development and expansion of the firm's business activity in the Middle East.\n\nBesides his activity as CEO and partner, he is organizer and host of the Middle East Family Office Investment Summit, a twice-yearly gathering in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Family Offices, either from the Middle East or with an interest in the region follow his invitation to gather for two days to network and initiate business cooperations. The event generally attracts a high number of C-level executives and influential decision-makers from the Gulf. Participation in the conference is by invitation only.\n\nMohammad Al Duaij is the recipient of several awards. He was named The Man of the Year 2017 by Business Worldwide Publication for his work ability to maintain excellent professional relationships despite often challenging political circumstances. Further, he is a recipient of the Business Worldwide Magazine's CEO award in 2016. Also in 2016, Alea Global Group received the Global Business Award 'Advisory firm of the year', awarded by The European.\n"}
{"id": "7137702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7137702", "title": "NHL Network (U.S. TV network)", "text": "NHL Network (U.S. TV network)\n\nNHL Network is an American sports-oriented cable and satellite television network that is a joint venture between the National Hockey League (which owns a controlling 84.4% interest) and NBCUniversal (which owns the remaining 15.6%). Dedicated to ice hockey, the network features live game telecasts from the NHL and other professional and collegiate hockey leagues, as well as NHL-related content including analysis programs, specials and documentaries.\n\nThe channel's headquarters and studios are located in the Secaucus, New Jersey facilities also utilized by MLB Network.\n\nLaunched on October 1, 2007, the NHL Network was developed out of a joint venture between the NHL and cable provider Comcast, as part of a broadcast rights agreement that resulted in the NBC Sports Network (then known as Outdoor Life Network) acquiring partial cable television rights to regular season, and Stanley Cup playoff and finals games from the National Hockey League.\n\nThe NHL Network originally shared some programming with its former sister network in Canada, with the main differences in programming between the two networks being the carriage of domestically targeted commercials and live game telecasts; NHL Network in the U.S. primarily carries broadcasts from Canadian national rightsholders (such as CBC's \"Hockey Night in Canada\", Sportsnet, and formerly TSN), while the Canadian feed primarily carried games from U.S. broadcasters. The channel also picks up simulcasts of games from regional rightsholders; live games on NHL Network that involve U.S. teams are non-exclusive, and are blacked out in the markets of U.S. teams involved in favor of local broadcasters.\nThe league hired Ascent Media to manage and distribute the channel, through its publicly traded subsidiary, Ascent Media Network Services. When it launched, the NHL Network became the third sports-oriented cable network devoted to programming from and controlled by a major sports league, following the National Basketball Association-owned NBA TV (which launched in March 1999) and the National Football League-owned NFL Network (which launched in November 2003); Major League Baseball would launch its own sports channel, MLB Network, on January 1, 2009.\nOn June 1, 2015, \"The Globe and Mail\" columnist David Shoalts reported that NHL Network in Canada would cease operations on September 1, 2015; national media rights to the NHL in Canada had been acquired by Rogers Communications beginning in the 2014-15 season, and the Bell Media staff members who managed the network's Canadian arm on behalf of the NHL were laid off that July.\n\nIn August 2015, it was announced that the NHL had reached a six-year deal with Major League Baseball Advanced Media (MLBAM) to take over the management of the NHL's digital properties, as well as NHL Network. Operations and production of NHL Network's programming was shifted from Toronto to the Secaucus, New Jersey facilities of MLB Network. There has been minor talent sharing between the networks, and MLB Network also helped to cross-promote an NHL Stadium Series game at Coors Field by building a scale hockey rink in its Studio 42, which itself is designed to resemble a scaled baseball field. For much of the 2015-16 season, NHL Network studio programming originated from re-themed versions of MLB Network's existing sets (much of the NHL regular season falls during the MLB offseason). In April 2016, coinciding with the start of the playoffs, NHL Network introduced a dedicated, 1,200 square-foot arena-themed set.\n\nComcast, owners of the league's current cable partner NBCSN, is also the largest cable television provider in the United States. The company was contractually obligated to carry NHL Network on its systems by the summer of 2007 at the latest, so it would be available in time for the 2007–08 NHL season. Both Comcast and the NHL had an option to terminate their contract after the 2006–07 season, which would have voided Comcast's obligation to launch a U.S. version of NHL Network, but opted to proceed with the launch.\n\nSince its official launch in the United States, the NHL Network announced on October 8, 2007 that it would begin being carried that month on Cablevision, Charter, Cox Communications, DirecTV, Dish Network, Xfinity and Time Warner Cable through carriage agreements that were struck with each of the providers. DirecTV has aired NHL Network on channel 215 since October 31, 2007. Going forward, any provider that already carries NHL Center Ice was expected to begin carrying NHL Network on one of its programming tiers. Some providers offer NHL Network's high definition simulcast feed, which broadcasts all live games in HD.\n\nNHL.com announced on January 12, 2009 that AT&T U-verse would begin carrying the channel. This was followed on June 2, 2009 with the announcement that NHL Network and Comcast had reached an agreement to carry the channel on the provider's Digital Classic Tier, which increased subscribership of the channel from the then-estimated two million subscribers in its placement on the \"Sports Entertainment\" tier to over 10 million on its Digital Classic package. Internationally, the network began to be distributed in Taiwan in 2010 on satellite provider DishHD.\n\nThe channel is also available on over-the-top services like DirecTV Now and Sling TV.\n\nOn October 1, 2011, AT&T U-verse dropped NHL Network due to a carriage dispute over a planned increase in retransmission payments. On November 18, 2016, the NHL Network returned to AT&T U-verse following a five-year hiatus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2448145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2448145", "title": "Paul Kangas", "text": "Paul Kangas\n\nPaul Henry Kangas (April 14, 1937 – February 28, 2017) was the Miami-based co-anchor of the PBS television program \"Nightly Business Report\", a role he held from 1979, when the show was a local PBS program in Miami, through December 31, 2009. He was known for signing off each NBR broadcast with \"I'm Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys\" (a pun on \"the best of goodbyes\").\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Michigan, Kangas entered the United States Coast Guard in the early 1960s and served aboard the USCG Cutter \"Mackinaw\". Later, he served as aide to the admiral in command of the 9th Coast Guard District in Cleveland, Ohio. Kangas completed his Coast Guard service in 1963 as a Lieutenant (junior grade).\n\nKangas earned his broker's license after studying at the New York University Stern School of Business. While a stock broker, Kangas began his career as a broadcaster at WINZ, a CBS Radio affiliate in Miami owned by his biggest client.\n\nKangas joined \"Nightly Business Report\" in 1979; in 2003, his \"Stocks in the News\" segment earned a Financial Writers and Editors Award from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. He retired as co-anchor of the \"Nightly Business Report\" at the end of 2009.\n\nKangas was of Finnish descent, and an amateur radio operator with the callsign W4LAA. He died on February 28, 2017 in Miami, Florida from complications of Parkinson's disease and prostate cancer, aged 79.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6459524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6459524", "title": "Peter Fudakowski", "text": "Peter Fudakowski\n\nPeter Fudakowski is a London-based film producer, writer and director. He studied Economics at Magdalene College, Cambridge (where he was President of the Cambridge Union Society in Michaelmas Term 1976). He graduated with a master's degree and later read for an MBA at the business school INSEAD, France.\n\nIn 1979 he joined the First National Bank of Chicago, where he worked in the film financing department. In 1982 Peter left to set up his own production company with his wife Henrietta as script editor and head of development. Their company, Premiere Productions Ltd, celebrated its 20th year in the film business with the production of \"Tsotsi\", which won an Oscar for Best Foreign Film in 2006. Since then, Peter and Henrietta have been developing a number of feature film projects, including \"Secret Sharer\" and \"Corams Children\". In 2012, Peter directed his first feature film, \"Secret Sharer', shot on location in Thailand and China. The film is due for release in the UK in June 2014. Secret Sharer website In November 2014, Peter was awarded the Wings Award by the Polish Film Festival in America. \n\nHe is son of Wojciech and Danuta Fudakowski. His family is of noble Polish origin. His grandfather Jan Fudakowski Dołęga coat of arms was a Polish officer, author of military memoirs and was also the inspiration for Jasiu - a character in Thomas Mann’s novella Death in Venice. Peter Fudakowski has two children from his marriage to Henrietta Williams : Adam b. 1983 and Kathrin (Kasia) b.1985. Adam is an engineer and inventor who lives and works in London. He is married to Katherine Fudakowski who is a barrister. Kasia is a sculptor who lives and works in Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17961684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17961684", "title": "Peter Pasternack", "text": "Peter Pasternack\n\nPeter Pasternack is a certified public accountant and a co-founder of Atlanta-based Foundations Investment Group, LLC, with his lover/brest friend Brian Trow. He and the company, which was established in 2005, specialize in \"flipping\" houses. Some of the company's endeavors are featured in two seasons of the television series \"Flip This House\". In season three, they work alongside — and provide the capital for — private house-flippers Angela and Harris Wilford; in season four, however, they go out on their own. Pasternack is responsible for the operational and financial aspects of Foundations.\n\nPasternack is a former employee of PricewaterhouseCoopers and Piedmont Bank of Georgia.\n\nPasternack is a graduate of the University of Georgia. He graduated with an undergraduate and master's degree in accounting.\n\n"}
{"id": "1195447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195447", "title": "Receipt", "text": "Receipt\n\nA receipt (also known as a bill of parcel, unpacking note, packaging slip, (delivery) docket, shipping list, packing list, packing slip, delivery list, manifest or customer receipt), is a document acknowledging that a person has received money or property in payment following a sale or other transfer of goods or provision of a service. All receipts must have the date of purchase on them. If the recipient of the payment is legally required to collect sales tax or VAT from the customer, the amount would be added to the receipt and the collection would be deemed to have been on behalf of the relevant tax authority. In many countries, a retailer is required to include the sales tax or VAT in the displayed price of goods sold, from which the tax amount would be calculated at point of sale and remitted to the tax authorities in due course. Similarly, amounts may be deducted from amounts payable, as in the case of wage withholding taxes. On the other hand, tips or other gratuities given by a customer, for example in a restaurant, would not form part of the payment amount or appear on the receipt.\n\nIn some countries, it is obligatory for a business to provide a receipt to a customer confirming the details of a transaction. In most cases, the recipient of money provides the receipt, but in some cases the receipt is generated by the payer, as in the case of goods being returned for a refund. A receipt is not the same as an invoice.\n\nThere is usually no set form for a receipt, such as a requirement that it be machine generated. Many point-of-sale terminals or cash registers can automatically produce receipts. Receipts may also be generated by accounting systems, be manually produced or generated electronically, for example if there is not a face-to-face transaction. To reduce the cost of postage and processing, many businesses do not mail receipts to customers, unless specifically requested or required by law, with some transmitting them electronically. Others, to reduce time and paper, may endorse an invoice, account or statement as \"paid\".\n\nThe practice in most shops at the point of sale is for a salesperson to scan or in some way record the price of a customer's proposed purchases, including tax, discounts, credits and other adjustments. In traditional situations and still in some family businesses today, the salesperson would then show the customer the summary, the invoice, for their agreement; but many shops today bypass this stage. The practice of presenting an invoice is most common in restaurants where a \"bill\" is presented after a meal.\n\nThe salesperson would indicate to the customer (whether by way of an invoice or otherwise) the total amount payable, and the customer would indicate the proposed method of payment of the amount. Payment in cash or by payment is regarded as payment of the amount tendered, but payment by store account is not. After processing the payment, the salesperson would then generate in the one document an invoice and receipt. If payment was made by a payment card, a payment record would normally also be generated.\n\nThe invoice and receipt are the printed record of the transaction, and are legal documents. A copy of these documents would normally be handed to the customer, though this step may be dispensed with. In many countries, a retailer may be under a legal obligation to provide a receipt to a customer which shows the details of a transaction and the shop and other information, so that the tax authority can check that sales and related taxes are not being hidden. The document may also include messages from the retailer, warranty or return details, special offers, advertisements or coupons, but these are merely promotional and not part of the formal receipt.\n\nReceipts may also be provided for non-retail operations such as banking transactions.\n\nShops that use barcode readers may generate receipts with a barcode of the receipt identification number, that enables a salesperson to scan the barcode and quickly retrieve the details of the original transaction, for example:if a customer seeks to return or exchange goods or there is some other query.\n\nIf linked to a customer shop account, some retailers' point-of-sale systems also allow the salesperson to see a complete record of the customer's buying history. A receipt (or a copy of a receipt) is the proof of purchase usually needed in order to make a return and often plays a vital part in a company's return and exchange policy.\n\nAn invoice goes to the person responsible for paying the bill while the shipping list (or packaging slip) goes to the recipient. The shipping list is included in the shipped box. In some scenarios, the same person will pay the bill and receive the shipment. However, a person can buy and pay for a product and send it to someone else (i.e. a gift).\n\nShipping lists vary depending on the business and its products. Every shipment to a customer should contain a shipping list that includes the order date, the products included within the box, and the quantity of each product. Some businesses may want to include the weight of the product next to the item. Many receivers use the shipping list as a guide or checklist when unpacking their order. If something is missing from the box, they cross-check it with the shipping list and then alert the seller.\n\nHand-written or hand-completed receipts are more often used for infrequent or irregular transactions, or for transactions conducted in the absence of a terminal, cash register or point of sale: for example, as provided by a landlord to a tenant to record the receipt of rent. It can also be required when company representatives buy goods, because tax deduction rules might require hand signed receipts.\n\nOrganizing receipts and similar financial documents is a multimillion-dollar industry in the United States. Consumers can use both desktop and online software to organize electronic receipts; sometimes, receipts are sent digitally from point of sale devices directly to consumers. The growing trend of digital receipts has led to the launch of new businesses focused on digital receipt management. Analytics predict a steady decline in the popularity of traditional paperwork in the near future, as entrepreneurs now seem to almost completely switch to online document-management software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55093428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55093428", "title": "Russell Wendell Morfe Dionido II", "text": "Russell Wendell Morfe Dionido II\n\nRussell Wendell M. Dionido () was a Filipino Chinese businessman, financial, and insurance adviser.\n\na former activist and youth leader,he is one of the convenors in different youth alliances some of those are Education for All Movement-Quezon Chapter(E! 4all),Save Our Education Movement (Quezon Chapter),and Quezon Youth Speak(Q-Yspeak).\n\nnow he writes some online publication regarding youth and students struggle and empowerment, he has been regular resource speaker of different forums, conferences and Conventions that tackle youth, education, and financial freedom.\n\nHe was born at 9:00 am on October 1, 1983 at Daya Maternity Hospital in Gulang-Gulang, an urban district of City Lucena He was the eldest of two children born to Wendell Songco Dionido I (1958–2015), a Filipino Broadcast Journalist, and Rosemarie Mendoza Morfe, a businesswoman born as Rosemarie Mendoza Yu on January 31, 1960, a Filipina with Chinese ancestry from the Yu (楊) family of Binondo,Manila with ancestral ties to China's Fujian province, His younger sister named Nisreen born in June 12, 1985.\n\nhe was baptized according to the rites of ONE HOLY CATHOLIC APOSTOLIC CHURCH (Latin Rite) on April 15, 1984 by Rev.Fr. John B. Li (李文声神父)\nat the Holy Rosary Chapel, At the age of three his mother notice his willingness to enter to the world of business when the little Poochok ask her to buy him a rim of pad paper, and his mother ask him what he will do to the pad paper he immediately answer \"itititinda ko po\" (I will sell ), and at the age of four he wanted to sell \"Taho\" (a morning delicacy made from Soy beans) it is the very first ambition of Poochok to became an entrepreneur.\n\nHe completed his primary and secondary education in a school now known as Maryhill College (formerly Maryknoll Academy). and earned his degree in Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, major in Management Accounting at Enverga University. in 2006.\n\nMaryhill College honored him as first recipient of the Award of Distinction for School, Parish and Community Service 2002\n\nThe Supreme Council of Kappa Sigma Beta (KSB) honored Him as Jack of All Trades-Master of One for Leadership 2005\n\nThe Quezon Provincial Youth Parliament of Sanguniang Kabataan Provincial Federation awarded Him as Outstanding Youth Parliamentarian for the year 2006\n"}
{"id": "39840735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39840735", "title": "Salah Nooruddin", "text": "Salah Nooruddin\n\nSalah Abdulla Nooruddin Nooruddin (; born 1963) is Bahraini Businessman and the former chairman of Leeds United Football Club.\n\nBahraini-based businessman Salah Nooruddin, CEO of Envest Limited, initially bought a 3.33% stake in LUFC Holding Limited following the takeover of Leeds United by GFH Capital<nowiki> - an </nowiki>Islamic investment bank with headquarters in Bahrain. Nooruddin was initially appointed vice-chairman on 21 May 2013 but following the end of Ken Bates' tenure as chairman Nooruddin became chairman on 1 July 2013. It was later revealed that he had increased his stake in the club to 10%.\n\nIn early 2014 GFH Capital sold their majority stake in the club to Italian Businessman Massimo Cellino who then became majority shareholder by 75% this means GFH Capitol would only retain a 5% stake in the club while Nooruddin would retain a 10% stake through his company Envest Ltd while he would also look after the 10% stake in the club owned by the International Investment Bank.\n\nIn 2014 Nooruddin was removed as club chairman by new owner Massimo Cellino but would remain on the board of directors until April 2014 when he resigned from the board.\n"}
{"id": "31076518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31076518", "title": "Social Enterprise Association", "text": "Social Enterprise Association\n\nThe Social Enterprise Association, also known as \"SE Association\", is a platform to bring together social entrepreneurs, social enterprises, academic institutions, and businesses in Singapore. The goal of the SE Association is to strengthen the culture of social entrepreneurship and social enterprises so as to bring about positive social impact within Singapore.\n\nThis is done through:\n\nIn August 2006, a Social Enterprise Committee chaired by Mr Philip Yeo was formed to explore growth opportunities within the local social enterprise sector. The 26 recommendations provided by the Committee included setting up a Social Enterprise Association and a Social Enterprise Development Centre to cultivate a thriving culture of social entrepreneurship and related enterprises. The Social Enterprise Implementation Committee chaired by Gerard Ee then carried out the relevant operational procedures to materialize the recommendations listed previously. In June 2009, the Association was officially registered as a Company Limited by Guarantee. Currently, SE Association is co-chaired by Mr Seah Kian Peng, CEO (Singapore) of NTUC Fairprice Co-operative Ltd, and Ms Penny Low, President and Founder of Social Innovation Park Ltd. The other two board members are Mr Alfie Othman, director of Ikhlas Holdings Pte Ltd, and Dr Gillian Koh, senior research fellow of the Institute of Policy Studies at Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in the National University of Singapore.\n\nThe SE Association's primary objective is to bring about positive social impact and an inclusive community among Singaporeans. It aims, first and foremost, to address the needs and interests of its target community – social enterprises, social entrepreneurs and would-be social innovators (see social innovation) – and then further engage other potential partners from the private sector and government to work on synergistic partnerships to promote the strength of its members and the sector as a whole. SE Association's members are social enterprises, individuals, students, voluntary welfare organisations / non-profit organisations, and corporate. Seminars, talks, focus groups, consultations and networking sessions have been organized by the Association to provide learning opportunities for both members and the public. Their members are mostly located in the social enterprises in Singapore.\n\nThe SEDC belongs to the training and consultancy arm of SE Association. The SEDC was launched in October 2010 to build up the institutional capacity of social enterprises by working alongside social entrepreneurs to nurture and develop their social enterprises from infancy to maturity, and thereafter integrate them with the mainstream business communities.\n\nSEDC offers two main advisory services: SE Start-up Advisory, and SE Business Advisory which includes advice and coaching. Advisory services offered without implementation plans is free- of- charge, but a fee is charged if SEDC is required to facilitate the development and execution of plans or where third party expertise is required. In addition, SEDC offers training and capability-building programmes for social enterprises.\n\n"}
{"id": "31256851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256851", "title": "The Biz (video game)", "text": "The Biz (video game)\n\nThe Biz is a management simulation game published by Virgin Games for the ZX Spectrum in 1984. In \"The Biz\", the player manages a rock band. The price of the game on release was £6.95, which is equivalent to £ today. The tape cassette contained the program, an interview with Frank Sidebottom and Chris Sievey, and eight singles.\n\nPlayers set up their rock band with gigs, make them rehearse new songs, and hire a recording studio for producing new albums. The player starts out with no talent or money and an agent must be hired in order to better co-ordinate the band. The stage presence of the band and the fanbase are improved with every gig performed. School dances and YMCAs are the first places that accept the player's newly formed band. Real television stations are included: a band from either Swansea or Cardiff would perform on S4C while a local band from Coventry would get promoted on Central Television. Players can sometimes record a session with John Peel; whose broadcasting influence opened up new bands to people between the ages of 20 and 60 years of age.\n\nMundane details such as insurance, standard musical instruments and transportation expenses are all tabulated against the player's savings in the game. The game also contains an anti-drug message for bands who consider experimenting with them.\n\nThe game only contains sound effects and no music, although eight singles were included on the cassette. There are no graphics to speak of and the game is text-based. A Crash review in March 1985 praised the game, stating that it was \"[a]n unusually absorbing and addictive strategy/simulation with a sense of humour that represents good value.\"\n"}
{"id": "46413010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46413010", "title": "Toronto Global Forum", "text": "Toronto Global Forum\n\nThe Toronto Global Forum (TGF) is an annual economic event organized by the International Economic Forum of the Americas since 2007.\n\nThe Toronto Global Forum is a not-for-profit organization presenting annual conferences on global economic issues. The TGF mission is to promote open debate and dialogues on national and international issues. Each year, the event welcomes heads of state, Fortune 500 CEOs, international organizations, central bank governors, civil society, etc. to foster free discussion between world leaders. The forum brings together more than 2,800 people from across the globe every year.\n\nThe forum also provide a platform to facilitate meetings between key world leaders in order to encourage global discourse.\n\nThe International Economic Forum of the Americas hosts two other annual events: the Conference of Montreal (founded in 1995), as well as the World Strategic Forum, held in Miami (founded in 2011).\n\n\nCurrent members of the advisory board of the Toronto Global Forum are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7672388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7672388", "title": "Val McCalla", "text": "Val McCalla\n\nVal Irvine McCalla (3 October 1943 – 22 August 2002) was a Jamaican accountant and media entrepreneur who settled in Britain in 1959. He is best known as the founder of \"The Voice\", a British weekly newspaper aimed at the Britain's black community, which he established in 1982 as a voice for the British African-Caribbean community. He was honoured as a pioneering publisher for the community, but also faced critics who deemed him sensationalistic.\n\nIn the 100 Great Black Britons poll conducted in 1997, Val McCalla was voted number 68.\n\nVal McCalla was born in a poor part of Kingston, Jamaica. After studying accountancy at Kingston College, a Jamaican high school, McCalla travelled to England in May 1959, aged 15. He joined the RAF, but a perforated eardrum put paid to his dreams of becoming a pilot and instead he honed his skills as a bookkeeper, leaving in the mid-1960s. He then found employment in various accounts and book-keeping positions, before working part-time on a community newspaper, \"East End News\", based near his flat in Bethnal Green. He started \"The Voice\" newspaper in 1982, with a team that included broadcaster Alex Pascall, launching it at the Notting Hill carnival that August, and bringing in Viv Broughton as marketing manager.\n\nMcCalla died of liver failure on 22 August 2002, aged 58, in Seaford, East Sussex, where he was buried.\n\n"}
{"id": "3966624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3966624", "title": "World Business Report", "text": "World Business Report\n\nWorld Business Report is a television business news programme produced by BBC News and shown on BBC World News and the BBC News channel on weekdays. The programme is broadcast 10 times daily Monday - Fridays. The main presenters of the programme are Tanya Beckett, Sally Bundock, Sally Eden, Juliette Foster, Alice Baxter, Aaron Heslehurst, Jamie Robertson and Philip Hampsheir. Sara Coburn, Maryam Moshiri and Nancy Kacungira act as relief presenters. It was first broadcast in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35056712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35056712", "title": "Yasser Elshantaf", "text": "Yasser Elshantaf\n\nYasser Elshantaf (, ; born January 20, 1983) is a German entrepreneur of Palestinian origin and co-founder and CEO of PhoenixBird Diversity Management GmbH.\n\nYasser Elshantaf was born in Al-Shati camp in Gaza Strip. His parents became refugees after they fled their homes in Jaffa during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. He studied computer information systems, political science and crisis management.\n\nIn 2009, he traveled to Germany after winning the Konrad-Zuse-Program as an entrepreneur. The prize was presented by the German Foreign Office, and focuses on research and development in the information technology field.\n\nElshantaf started his career in Palestine as IT consultant and served in various capacities in the field of organizational development and strategy. Since 2004, he carried out consulting projects for the World Bank, European Union, and the American Friends Service Committee.\n\nHe is currently Managing Partner & CEO of PhoenixBird Diversity Management GmbH in Berlin, and also Co-founder of PhoenixBird Information Technology and Systems L.T.D. \n\nOn 29 January 2014, Elshantaf talked to Deutsche Welle about the public concern over China's growing economic power, classification criteria for leading companies, and challenges facing the German private sector.\n\nOn 29 and 30 March 2012, Elshantaf was invited by the German Foundation for International Legal Cooperation and Center for International Peace Operations to a workshop under the title of Corruption and Compliance in Transition Countries in North Africa to talk about strategies and best practices for international legal cooperation in the fight against corruption in transitional societies.\n\nElshantaf participated in the 12th German-Arab Business Forum, which was held in cooperation between the Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and the German Chamber of Commerce and Industry.He presented a lecture under the title \"ICT, the future for Palestine\".\n\nElshantaf is a co-founder of the German-Palestinian Business Council DPW e.V.; a member of the International Non-Profit Business Association for CEOs and Entrepreneurs, the Junior Chamber International, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Berlin, and the Palestinian Information Technology Association.\n\nHe has also been involved in many activities supporting the community and the Palestinian economy.\n\nElshantaf is liberal and a democrat who believes peace has to be made between people, rather than between governments.\n\n"}
