{"id": "42059203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42059203", "title": "A Cinderella Christmas", "text": "A Cinderella Christmas\n\nA Cinderella Christmas is a pantomime version of the fairytale \"Cinderella\", with a book by Kris Lythgoe, using for its score a pastiche of well known pop tunes. It was first produced in 2010 at the El Portal Theatre in North Hollywood, California. The music includes songs by Lady Gaga, Michael Bublé, Katy Perry, Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Jennifer Lopez and Kelly Clarkson among others. Like other pantomimes, the show includes magic, dancing, singing, acting, audience interactivity and sing-a-long segments.\n\nThe story follows the traditional \"Cinderella\" fairytale, with some additional characters. Buttons is the Butler to Wicked Step-Mother and is Cinderella’s best friend. As in most pantomimes, the 4th wall is broken by the cast, who encourage the audience to cheer for Cinderella and boo the Wicked Step-Sisters.\n\n\n\nIt was first produced in 2010 at the El Portal Theatre in North Hollywood, California starring Freddie Stroma, Jerry Mathers and Jennifer Leigh Warren. A nationwide search in conjunction with Westfield shopping centers was carried out to find an actress to play the title role. Celebrity Judges included Neil Patrick Harris. This was the first pantomime seen in California for some time and received positive reviews from the press.\n\nIt was produced in 2011 again at the El Portal Theatre in North Hollywood starring Fred Willard, and Shoshana Bean as the Fairy Godmother. It again received positive reviews.\n"}
{"id": "46630063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46630063", "title": "African Survey", "text": "African Survey\n\nAn African Survey: A Study of Problems arising in Africa South of the Sahara, often simply known as African Survey, was a report published in 1938 which paved the way for the reorganisation of research into the situation of the British Empire in Sub-Saharan Africa through the Colonial Development and Welfare Act 1940. The report was published by Oxford University Press and ran to 1,837 pages. It was subsequently republished in several revised editions.\n\nThe missionary Joseph Oldham played a key role in getting the survey under way. John Cell has argued that reference to Jan Smuts in Lord Lothian's foreword to the work should not be given much weight. Smuts had advocated White settlement throughout the highlands of East Africa, with a view of creating a similar dominion to South Africa. This proposal, centred on Oxford University lost out to other viewpoints. In 1931 Oldham got an agreement for the survey to be funded from the Carnegie Foundation, however a suitable director would have to be found. Three people declined the role, William Marris, George Schuster and Whitney Shephardson before the two year search was over. Lionel Curtis, a friend of Lord Hailey sounded him out and he was soon seen as an ideal candidate for the role. Hailey formally accepted the role in July 1933\n\nAs director for the Survey and it established Hailey as a leading voice calling for colonial reform in the 1940s. Hailey had retired from a career in British India and whilst it was officially claimed he would bring \"fresh eyes\" to Britain's African territories, it has also been suggested that there was a hope that a similar method of controlling separate African territories could be established as had been done in India. He was aided by Lucy Mair and Audrey Richards, both anthropology students of Bronisław Malinowski, who were seconded to the Colonial Office; E. B. Worthington, a Cambridge biologist who assisted with a scientific survey; and Hilda Matheson, who was hired as a secretary to the project, but ended up serving more as an executive manager of the endeavor.\n\nHailey was ill from 1937-8, and much of the work was taken up by Frederick Pedler who took over editorial responsibility during this period.\n\nOne of the key points made by the report was that rather than have research develop as a piece-meal response to specific problems, it should be integrated into an overall plan with suitable funding from the treasury.\n\nThe report became a regular item to be found on administrators desks across colonial British Africa.\n"}
{"id": "1298848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298848", "title": "Ana Blandiana", "text": "Ana Blandiana\n\nAna Blandiana (; pen name of Otilia Valeria Coman; b. 25 March 1942, Timişoara) is a Romanian poet, essayist, and political figure. She is considered one of the leading contemporary Romanian authors. She took her name after Blandiana, near Vințu de Jos, Alba County, her mother's home village.\n\nIn October 2017, she was announced as The Griffin Trust For Excellence In Poetry's twelfth recipient of their Lifetime Recognition Award.\n\nComan's parents were Gheorghe (1915-1964), a priest who spent years in Communist prisons and died in an accident weeks after his release in a general amnesty, and Otilia (Diacu), an accountant. Her sister Geta was born in 1947. In 1960 she married the writer Romulus Rusan.\n\nAfter her debut in 1959, in \"Tribuna\", Cluj, where she signed for the first time as \"Ana Blandiana\", she was published in the anthology \"30 de poeți tineri\" (\"30 Young Poets\"). In 1963, after a four-year interdiction due to her father's status, she again published in \"Contemporanul\" (edited by George Ivașcu).\nHer editorial debut took place in 1964 with the booklet of poems \"Persoana întâia plural\" (\"First Person Plural\"), with a \"Foreword\" written by Nicolae Manolescu. She became known for her \"Calcâiul vulnerabil\" (\"Achilles' Heel\", 1966) and \"A treia taină\" (\"The Third Secret\", 1969). In 1966, Blandiana appeared for the first time at the International Poem Contest (in Lahti, Finland).\nIn 1967, she settled in Bucharest; until the following year, she was one of the editors for \"Viața studențească\", and then (until 1975) worked as editor for \"Amfiteatru\". \nShe gave two televised readings in 1969, in the company of Andrei Șerban and the actors Irina Petrescu, Mariana Mihuț and Florian Pittiş.\nBetween 1975 and 1977, she was a librarian at the Institute of Fine Arts in Bucharest. In 1976, her works were first printed in a French translation, in \"Croisière du Club des Poètes\" by (Paris); in 1978, she took part in the First International Festival of Poetry in Paris organized by the famed Club des Poètes.\n\nIn the late 1980s, assuming risks of reprisals of the communist regime, Blandiana started writing protest poems, in answer to the increasingly harsh demands of the system in general.\n\nIn 1984 Blandiana's poem 'Totul' ('Everything') was briefly published in the literary magazine Amfiteatru. 'Totul' was a list of elements of everyday life in Bucharest at the time, composed as a comment on the contrast between the official view of life in Romania and the alternative perception of its monotonous shabbiness. The critical nature of the poem led to the edition of Amfiteatru being withdrawn within hours of publication with the editors being dismissed. Nevertheless, the poem appeared in translation in Western media and also had limited underground circulation in Romania.\n\nHowever, in 1987 she published at the Sport-Turism Publishing House the book \"Orase de silabe\" (\"City of syllables\") where she writes about all the countries and cities of the world where she traveled in spite of the 'communist dictatorship': over 100. The same year, 1987, she is published in USSR, at Raduga Publishing House from Moscow, with the Russian title \"Stihotvorenia, rasskazî, asse\". Even though the secret services of Ceaușescu ('Securitate') attribute her a dissident status, in 1989 the Minerva Publishing House is publishing in the most popular mass collection \"Biblioteca Pentru Toți\" (\"Library for all people\") an anthology of her poems. Her friends sustain that the book never seen the bookshelves of the libraries. However, \"Poezii\" (\"Poems\") has a 'Foreword' written by Eugen Simion.\n\nAfter the Romanian Revolution of 1989, she entered political life, campaigning for the removal of the communist legacy from administrative office, as well as for an open society. She left literary work in the background, although she did publish \"Arhitectura valurilor\" (\"Waves' Architecture\", 1990), \"100 de poeme\" (\"100 Poems\", 1991), and \"Sertarul cu aplauze\" (\"The Drawer of Applause\", prose, 1992). In 1992 she advocates for the released from prison of old time Party member Gheorghe 'Gogu' Radulescu, a former member of the Executive Political Committee of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and protector of herself during the communist period. Her work was translated into 16 languages.\n\nAna Blandiana has also published: \"50 de poeme\", (\"50 Poems\"), 1970: \"Octombrie, Noiembrie, Decembrie\" (\"October, November, December\"), 1972; \"Întâmplări din grădina mea\" (\"Occurrences in My Garden\"), 1980; \"Ora de nisip\" (\"The Hour of Sand\"), 1984; \"Întâmplări de pe strada mea\" (\"Occurrences on My Street\"), 1988; \"În dimineața de după moarte\" (\"On the Morning After Dying\"), 1996; \"La cules îngeri\" (\"Angel Gathering\"), 1997; \"Cartea albă a lui Arpagic\" (\"Arpagic's White Book\"), 1998. She has also authored 6 books of essays and 4 books of other prose writings.\n\n\"Ora de nisip\" (\"The Hour of Sand\") has been translated into English by Peter Jay and Anca Cristofovici.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41923666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41923666", "title": "Archaeology in Oceania", "text": "Archaeology in Oceania\n\nArchaeology in Oceania is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering prehistoric and historic archaeology, especially concerning Australia, the islands of the Pacific Ocean, and the western Pacific Rim. The journal is published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of Oceania Publications. It was originally published by the University of Sydney. The editor-in-chief is J. Peter White. It is indexed in Anthropological Literature, Scopus, Arts and Humanities Citation Index, and Social Science Citation Index.\n\nThe journal is associated with \"Oceania\", published by the same publisher and covering ethnographic research in the area.\n"}
{"id": "334829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334829", "title": "Art of Europe", "text": "Art of Europe\n\nThe art of Europe, or Western art, encompasses the history of visual art in Europe. European prehistoric art started as mobile rock and cave painting art and was characteristic of the period between the Paleolithic and the Iron Age. Written histories of European art often begin with the art of the Ancient Middle East and the Ancient Aegean civilizations, dating from the 3rd millennium BC. Parallel with these significant cultures, art of one form or another existed all over Europe, wherever there were people, leaving signs such as carvings, decorated artifacts and huge standing stones. However a consistent pattern of artistic development within Europe becomes clear only with the art of Ancient Greece, adopted and transformed by Rome and carried; with the Empire, across much of Europe, North Africa and the Middle East.\n\nThe influence of the art of the Classical period waxed and waned throughout the next two thousand years, seeming to slip into a distant memory in parts of the Medieval period, to re-emerge in the Renaissance, suffer a period of what some early art historians viewed as \"decay\" during the Baroque period, to reappear in a refined form in Neo-Classicism and to be reborn in Post-Modernism.\n\nBefore the 1800s, the Christian church was a major influence upon European art, the commissions of the Church, architectural, painterly and sculptural, providing the major source of work for artists. The history of the Church was very much reflected in the history of art, during this period. In the same period of time there was renewed interest in heroes and heroines, tales of mythological gods and goddesses, great wars, and bizarre creatures which were not connected to religion. Most art of the last 200 years has been produced without reference to religion and often with no particular ideology at all, but art has often been influenced by political issues, whether reflecting the concerns of patrons or the artist.\n\nEuropean art is arranged into a number of stylistic periods, which, historically, overlap each other as different styles flourished in different areas. Broadly the periods are, Classical, Byzantine, Medieval, Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque, Rococo, Neoclassical, Modern and Postmodern.\n\nEuropean prehistoric art is an important part of the European cultural heritage. Prehistoric art history is usually divided into four main periods: Stone age, Neolithic, Bronze age, and Iron age. Most of the remaining artifacts of this period are small sculptures and cave paintings.\nMuch surviving prehistoric art is small portable sculptures, with a small group of female Venus figurines such as the Venus of Willendorf (24,000–22,000 BC) found across central Europe; the 30 cm tall Löwenmensch figurine of about 30,000 BCE has hardly any pieces that can be related to it. The Swimming Reindeer of about 11,000 BCE is one of the finest of a number of Magdalenian carvings in bone or antler of animals in the art of the Upper Paleolithic, though they are outnumbered by engraved pieces, which are sometimes classified as sculpture. With the beginning of the Mesolithic in Europe figurative sculpture greatly reduced, and remained a less common element in art than relief decoration of practical objects until the Roman period, despite some works such as the Gundestrup cauldron from the European Iron Age and the Bronze Age Trundholm sun chariot.\n\nThe oldest European cave art dates back 40,800, and can be found in the El Castillo Cave in Spain. Other cave painting sites include Lascaux, Cave of Altamira, Grotte de Cussac, Pech Merle, Cave of Niaux, Chauvet Cave, Font-de-Gaume, Creswell Crags, Nottinghamshire, England, (Cave etchings and bas-reliefs discovered in 2003), Coliboaia cave from Romania (considered the oldest cave painting in central Europe) and Magura, Belogradchik, Bulgaria. Rock painting was also performed on cliff faces, but fewer of those have survived because of erosion. One well-known example is the rock paintings of Astuvansalmi in the Saimaa area of Finland. When Marcelino Sanz de Sautuola first encountered the Magdalenian paintings of the Altamira cave, Cantabria, Spain in 1879, the academics of the time considered them hoaxes. Recent reappraisals and numerous additional discoveries have since demonstrated their authenticity, while at the same time stimulating interest in the artistry of Upper Palaeolithic peoples. Cave paintings, undertaken with only the most rudimentary tools, can also furnish valuable insight into the culture and beliefs of that era.\n\nThe Rock art of the Iberian Mediterranean Basin represents a very different style, with the human figure the main focus, often seen in large groups, with battles, dancing and hunting all represented, as well as other activities and details such as clothing. The figures are generally rather sketchily depicted in thin paint, with the relationships between the groups of humans and animals more carefully depicted than individual figures. Other less numerous groups of rock art, many engraved rather than painted, show similar characteristics. The Iberian examples are believed to date from a long period perhaps covering the Upper Paleolithic, Mesolithic and early Neolithic.\n\nPrehistoric Celtic art comes from much of Iron Age Europe and survives mainly in the form of high-status metalwork skillfully decorated with complex, elegant and mostly abstract designs, often using curving and spiral forms. There are human heads and some fully represented animals, but full-length human figures at any size are so rare that their absence may represent a religious taboo. As the Romans conquered Celtic territories, it almost entirely vanishes, but the style continued in limited use in the British Isles, and with the coming of Christianity revived there in the Insular style of the Early Middle Ages.\n\nThe Minoan culture is regarded as the oldest civilization in Europe. The Minoan culture existed in Crete and consisted of four periods: Prepalatial, Protopalatial, Neopalatial, and the Postpalatial period between 3650 BC and 1100 BC. Not much of the art remained from the Prepalatial times, and most of artefacts still existing today are Cycladic statuettes and pottery fragments. The most prosperous period of the Cretan civilization was Neopalatial period and most of the artefacts are from this era. A large number of artefacts from the Protopalatial can be seen today in Cretan museums.\nPottery – most popular in the Protopalatial period (1900-1700 BC) – was characterized by thin walled vessels, subtle, symmetrical shapes, elegant spouts, and decorations, and dynamic lines. Dark and light values were often contrasted in Minoan pottery. The spontaneity and fluidity of the Protopalatial period later were transformed to a more stylized form of art with dissociation of naturalism in the Neopalatial period.The palaces served as organizational, commercial, artistic, worshipping, and agricultural centres in the Cretan civilization. Cretan palaces were built without defensive walls and exhibited a central courtyard which was embraced by a number of buildings. The central courtyard served as the main meeting place of the people. The palaces had throne rooms, cult chambers, and theatres where people could gather at special events. Columns and staircases were part of the artistic expression and it is believed that they served as metaphorical elements.The Minoan palaces are richly painted with paintings. Minoan painting was unique in that it used wet fresco techniques; it was characterized by small waists, fluidity, and vitality of the figures and was seasoned with elasticity, spontaneity, vitality, and high-contrasting colours.Not much of the sculpture survived from the Minoan civilization. The best known example of sculptures is the Snake Goddess figurine. The sculpture depicts a goddess or a high priestess holding a snake in both hands, dressed in traditional Minoan attire, cloth covering the whole body and leaving the breasts exposed. Exquisite metal work was also a characteristic of the Minoan art. Minoan metal masters worked with imported gold and copper and mastered techniques of wax casting, embossing, gilding, nielo, and granulation.\n\nAncient Greece had great painters, great sculptors, and great architects. The Parthenon is an example of their architecture that has lasted to modern days. Greek marble sculpture is often described as the highest form of Classical art. Painting on the pottery of Ancient Greece and ceramics gives a particularly informative glimpse into the way society in Ancient Greece functioned. Black-figure vase painting and Red-figure vase painting gives many surviving examples of what Greek painting was. Some famous Greek painters on wooden panels who are mentioned in texts are Apelles, Zeuxis and Parrhasius, however no examples of Ancient Greek panel painting survive, only written descriptions by their contemporaries or by later Romans. Zeuxis lived in 5–6 BC and was said to be the first to use sfumato. According to Pliny the Elder, the realism of his paintings was such that birds tried to eat the painted grapes. Apelles is described as the greatest painter of Antiquity for perfect technique in drawing, brilliant color and modeling.\n\nRoman art was influenced by Greece and can in part be taken as a descendant of ancient Greek painting and sculpture, but was also strongly influenced by the more local Etruscan art of Italy. Roman sculpture, is primarily portraiture derived from the upper classes of society as well as depictions of the gods. However, Roman painting does have important unique characteristics. Among surviving Roman paintings are wall paintings, many from villas in Campania, in Southern Italy, especially at Pompeii and Herculaneum. Such painting can be grouped into four main \"styles\" or periods and may contain the first examples of trompe-l'oeil, pseudo-perspective, and pure landscape.\n\nAlmost all of the surviving painted portraits from the Ancient world are a large number of coffin-portraits of bust form found in the Late Antique cemetery of Al-Fayum. They give an idea of the quality that the finest ancient work must have had. A very small number of miniatures from Late Antique illustrated books also survive, and a rather larger number of copies of them from the Early Medieval period. Early Christian art grew out of Roman popular, and later Imperial, art and adapted its iconography from these sources.\n\nMost surviving art from the Medieval period was religious in focus, often funded by the Church, powerful ecclesiastical individuals such as bishops, communal groups such as abbeys, or wealthy secular patrons. Many had specific liturgical functions—processional crosses and altarpieces, for example.\n\nOne of the central questions about Medieval art concerns its lack of realism. A great deal of knowledge of perspective in art and understanding of the human figure was lost with the fall of Rome. But realism was not the primary concern of Medieval artists. They were simply trying to send a religious message, a task which demands clear iconic images instead of precisely rendered ones.\n\nTime Period: 6th century to 15th century\n\nByzantine art overlaps with or merges with what we call Early Christian art until the iconoclasm period of 730-843 when the vast majority of artwork with figures was destroyed; so little remains that today any discovery sheds new understanding. After 843 until 1453 there is a clear Byzantine art tradition. It is often the finest art of the Middle Ages in terms of quality of material and workmanship, with production centered on Constantinople. Byzantine art's crowning achievement were the monumental frescos and mosaics inside domed churches, most of which have not survived due to natural disasters and the appropriation of churches to mosques.\n\nMigration period art is a general term for the art of the \"barbarian\" peoples who moved into formerly Roman territories. Celtic art in the 7th and 8th centuries saw a fusion with Germanic traditions through contact with the Anglo-Saxons creating what is called the Hiberno-Saxon style or Insular art, which was to be highly influential on the rest of the Middle Ages. Merovingian art describes the art of the Franks before about 800, when Carolingian art combined insular influences with a self-conscious classical revival, developing into Ottonian art. Anglo-Saxon art is the art of England after the Insular period. Illuminated manuscripts contain nearly all the surviving painting of the period, but architecture, metalwork and small carved work in wood or ivory were also important media.\nRomanesque art refers to the period from about 1000 to the rise of Gothic art in the 12th century. This was a period of increasing prosperity, and the first to see a coherent style used across Europe, from Scandinavia to Switzerland. Romanesque art is vigorous and direct, was originally brightly coloured, and is often very sophisticated. Stained glass and enamel on metalwork became important media, and larger sculptures in the round developed, although high relief was the principal technique. Its architecture is dominated by thick walls, and round-headed windows and arches, with much carved decoration.\nGothic art is a variable term depending on the craft, place and time. The term originated with Gothic architecture in 1140, but Gothic painting did not appear until around 1200 (this date has many qualifications), when it diverged from Romanesque style. Gothic sculpture was born in France in 1144 with the renovation of the Abbey Church of S. Denis and spread throughout Europe, by the 13th century it had become the international style, replacing Romanesque. International Gothic describes Gothic art from about 1360 to 1430, after which Gothic art merges into Renaissance art at different times in different places. During this period forms such as painting, in fresco and on panel, become newly important, and the end of the period includes new media such as prints. \n\nThe Renaissance is characterized by a focus on the arts of Ancient Greece and Rome, which led to many changes in both the technical aspects of painting and sculpture, as well as to their subject matter. It began in Italy, a country rich in Roman heritage as well as material prosperity to fund artists. During the Renaissance, painters began to enhance the realism of their work by using new techniques in perspective, thus representing three dimensions more authentically. Artists also began to use new techniques in the manipulation of light and darkness, such as the tone contrast evident in many of Titian's portraits and the development of sfumato and chiaroscuro by Leonardo da Vinci. Sculptors, too, began to rediscover many ancient techniques such as contrapposto. Following with the humanist spirit of the age, art became more secular in subject matter, depicting ancient mythology in addition to Christian themes. This genre of art is often referred to as Renaissance Classicism. In the North, the most important Renaissance innovation was the widespread use of oil paints, which allowed for greater colour and intensity.\n\nDuring the late 13th century and early 14th century, much of the painting in Italy was Byzantine in Character, notably that of Duccio of Siena and Cimabue of Florence, while Pietro Cavallini in Rome was more Gothic in style.\n\nIn 1290 Giotto began painting in a manner that was less traditional and more based upon observation of nature. His famous cycle at the Scrovegni Chapel, Padua, is seen as the beginnings of a Renaissance style.\n\nOther painters of the 14th century were carried the Gothic style to great elaboration and detail. Notable among these painters are Simone Martini and Gentile da Fabriano.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the technique of painting in oils rather than tempera, led itself to a form of elaboration that was not dependent upon the application of gold leaf and embossing, but upon the minute depiction of the natural world. The art of painting textures with great realism evolved at this time. Dutch painters such as Jan van Eyck and Hugo van der Goes were to have great influence on Late Gothic and Early Renaissance painting.\n\nThe ideas of the Renaissance first emerged in the city-state of Florence, Italy. The sculptor Donatello returned to classical techniques such as contrapposto and classical subjects like the unsupported nude—his second sculpture of \"David\" was the first free-standing bronze nude created in Europe since the Roman Empire. The sculptor and architect Brunelleschi studied the architectural ideas of ancient Roman buildings for inspiration. Masaccio perfected elements like composition, individual expression, and human form to paint frescoes, especially those in the Brancacci Chapel, of surprising elegance, drama, and emotion.\n\nA remarkable number of these major artists worked on different portions of the Florence Cathedral. Brunelleschi's dome for the cathedral was one of the first truly revolutionary architectural innovations since the Gothic flying buttress. Donatello created many of its sculptures. Giotto and Lorenzo Ghiberti also contributed to the cathedral.\nHigh Renaissance artists include such figures as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo Buonarroti, and Raffaello Sanzio.\n\nThe 15th-century artistic developments in Italy (for example, the interest in perspectival systems, in depicting anatomy, and in classical cultures) matured during the 16th century, accounting for the designations \"Early Renaissance\" for the 15th century and \"High Renaissance\" for the 16th century. Although no singular style characterizes the High Renaissance, the art of those most closely associated with this Period—Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, Michelangelo, and Titian—exhibits an astounding mastery, both technical and aesthetic. High Renaissance artists created works of such authority that generations of later artists relied on these artworks for instruction.\nThese exemplary artistic creations further elevated the prestige of artists. Artists could claim divine inspiration, thereby raising visual art to a status formerly given only to poetry. Thus, painters, sculptors, and architects came into their own, successfully claiming for their work a high position among the fine arts. In a sense, 16th- century masters created a new profession with its own rights of expression and its own venerable character.\n\nEarly Netherlandish painting developed (but did not strictly invent) the technique of oil painting to allow greater control in painting minute detail with realism—Jan van Eyck (1366–1441) was a figure in the movement from illuminated manuscripts to panel paintings.\n\nHieronymus Bosch (1450?–1516), a Dutch painter, is another important figure in the Northern Renaissance. In his paintings, he used religious themes, but combined them with grotesque fantasies, colourful imagery, and peasant folk legends. His paintings often reflect the confusion and anguish associated with the end of the Middle Ages.\n\nAlbrecht Dürer introduced Italian Renaissance style to Germany at the end of the 15th century, and dominated German Renaissance art.\n\nTime Period:\n\nIn European art, Renaissance Classicism spawned two different movements—Mannerism and the Baroque. Mannerism, a reaction against the idealist perfection of Classicism, employed distortion of light and spatial frameworks in order to emphasize the emotional content of a painting and the emotions of the painter. The work of El Greco is a particularly clear example of Mannerism in painting during the late 16th, early 17th centuries. Northern Mannerism took longer to develop, and was largely a movement of the last half of the 16th century. Baroque art took the representationalism of the Renaissance to new heights, emphasizing detail, movement, lighting, and drama in their search for beauty. Perhaps the best known Baroque painters are Caravaggio, Rembrandt, Peter Paul Rubens, and Diego Velázquez.\n\nA rather different art developed out of northern realist traditions in 17th-century Dutch Golden Age painting, which had very little religious art, and little history painting, instead playing a crucial part in developing secular genres such as still life, genre paintings of everyday scenes, and landscape painting. While the Baroque nature of Rembrandt's art is clear, the label is less use for Vermeer and many other Dutch artists. Flemish Baroque painting shared a part in this trend, while also continuing to produce the traditional categories.\n\nBaroque art is often seen as part of the Counter-Reformation—the artistic element of the revival of spiritual life in the Roman Catholic Church. Additionally, the emphasis that Baroque art placed on grandeur is seen as Absolutist in nature. Religious and political themes were widely explored within the Baroque artistic context, and both paintings and sculptures were characterised by a strong element of drama, emotion and theatricality. Famous Baroque artists include Caravaggio or Rubens. Baroque art was particularly ornate and elaborate in nature, often using rich, warm colours with dark undertones. Pomp and grandeur were important elements of the Baroque artistic movement in general, as can be seen when Louis XIV said, \"I am grandeur incarnate\"; many Baroque artists served kings who tried to realize this goal. Baroque art in many ways was similar to Renaissance art; as a matter of fact, the term was initially used in a derogative manner to describe post-Renaissance art and architecture which was over-elaborate. Baroque art can be seen as a more elaborate and dramatic re-adaptation of late Renaissance art.\n\nBy the 18th century, however, Baroque art was falling out of fashion as many deemed it too melodramatic and also gloomy, and it developed into the Rococo, which emerged in France. Rococo art was even more elaborate than the Baroque, but it was less serious and more playful. Whilst the Baroque used rich, strong colours, Rococo used pale, creamier shades. The artistic movement no longer placed an emphasis on politics and religion, focusing instead on lighter themes such as romance, celebration, and appreciation of nature. Rococo art also contrasted the Baroque as it often refused symmetry in favor of asymmetrical designs. Furthermore, it sought inspiration from the artistic forms and ornamentation of Far Eastern Asia, resulting in the rise in favour of porcelain figurines and chinoiserie in general. The 18th-century style flourished for a short while; nevertheless, the Rococo style soon fell out of favor, being seen by many as a gaudy and superficial movement emphasizing aesthetics over meaning. Neoclassicism in many ways developed as a counter movement of the Rococo, the impetus being a sense of disgust directed towards the latter's florid qualities.\n\nTime Period:\n\nThroughout the 18th century, a counter movement opposing the Rococo sprang up in different parts of Europe, commonly known as Neoclassicism. It despised the perceived superficiality and frivolity of Rococo art, and desired for a return to the simplicity, order and 'purism' of classical antiquity, especially ancient Greece and Rome. The movement was in part also influenced by the Renaissance, which itself was strongly influenced by classical art. Neoclassicism was the artistic component of the intellectual movement known as the Enlightenment; the Enlightenment was idealistic, and put its emphasis on objectivity, reason and empirical truth. Neoclassicism had become widespread in Europe throughout the 18th century, especially in the United Kingdom, which saw great works of Neoclassical architecture spring up during this period; Neoclassicism's fascination with classical antiquity can be seen in the popularity of the Grand Tour during this decade, where wealthy aristocrats travelled to the ancient ruins of Italy and Greece. Nevertheless, a defining moment for Neoclassicism came during the French Revolution in the late 18th century; in France, Rococo art was replaced with the preferred Neoclassical art, which was seen as more serious than the former movement. In many ways, Neoclassicism can be seen as a political movement as well as an artistic and cultural one. Neoclassical art places an emphasis on order, symmetry and classical simplicity; common themes in Neoclassical art include courage and war, as were commonly explored in ancient Greek and Roman art. Ingres, Canova, and Jacques-Louis David are among the best-known neoclassicists.\n\nJust as Mannerism rejected Classicism, so did Romanticism reject the ideas of the Enlightenment and the aesthetic of the Neoclassicists. Romanticism rejected the highly objective and ordered nature of Neoclassicism, and opted for a more individual and emotional approach to the arts. Romanticism placed an emphasis on nature, especially when aiming to portray the power and beauty of the natural world, and emotions, and sought a highly personal approach to art. Romantic art was about individual feelings, not common themes, such as in Neoclassicism; in such a way, Romantic art often used colours in order to express feelings and emotion. Similarly to Neoclassicism, Romantic art took much of its inspiration from ancient Greek and Roman art and mythology, yet, unlike Neoclassical, this inspiration was primarily used as a way to create symbolism and imagery. Romantic art also takes much of its aesthetic qualities from medievalism and Gothicism, as well as mythology and folklore. Among the greatest Romantic artists were Eugène Delacroix, Francisco Goya, J.M.W. Turner, John Constable, Caspar David Friedrich, Thomas Cole, and William Blake.\n\nMost artists attempted to take a centrist approach which adopted different features of Neoclassicist and Romanticist styles, in order to synthesize them. The different attempts took place within the French Academy, and collectively are called Academic art. Adolphe William Bouguereau is considered a chief example of this stream of art.\n\nIn the early 19th century the face of Europe, however, became radically altered by industrialization. Poverty, squalor, and desperation were to be the fate of the new working class created by the \"revolution\". In response to these changes going on in society, the movement of Realism emerged. Realism sought to accurately portray the conditions and hardships of the poor in the hopes of changing society. In contrast with Romanticism, which was essentially optimistic about mankind, Realism offered a stark vision of poverty and despair. Similarly, while Romanticism glorified nature, Realism portrayed life in the depths of an urban wasteland. Like Romanticism, Realism was a literary as well as an artistic movement. The great Realist painters include Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin, Gustave Courbet, Jean-François Millet, Camille Corot, Honoré Daumier, Édouard Manet, Edgar Degas (both considered as Impressionists), and Thomas Eakins, among others.\n\nThe response of architecture to industrialisation, in stark contrast to the other arts, was to veer towards historicism. Although the railway stations built during this period are often considered the truest reflections of its spirit – they are sometimes called \"the cathedrals of the age\" – the main movements in architecture during the Industrial Age were revivals of styles from the distant past, such as the Gothic Revival. Related movements were the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, who attempted to return art to its state of \"purity\" prior to Raphael, and the Arts and Crafts Movement, which reacted against the impersonality of mass-produced goods and advocated a return to medieval craftsmanship.\n\nTime Period:\n\nOut of the naturalist ethic of Realism grew a major artistic movement, Impressionism. The Impressionists pioneered the use of light in painting as they attempted to capture light as seen from the human eye. Edgar Degas,\nÉdouard Manet, Claude Monet, Camille Pissarro, and Pierre-Auguste Renoir, were all involved in the Impressionist movement. As a direct outgrowth of Impressionism came the development of Post-Impressionism. Paul Cézanne, Vincent van Gogh, Paul Gauguin, Georges Seurat are the best known Post-Impressionists.\n\nFollowing the Impressionists and the Post-Impressionists came Fauvism, often considered the first \"modern\" genre of art. Just as the Impressionists revolutionized light, so did the fauvists rethink color, painting their canvases in bright, wild hues. After the Fauvists, modern art began to develop in all its forms, ranging from Expressionism, concerned with evoking emotion through objective works of art, to Cubism, the art of transposing a three-dimensional reality onto a flat canvas, to Abstract art. These new art forms pushed the limits of traditional notions of \"art\" and corresponded to the similar rapid changes that were taking place in human society, technology, and thought.\n\nSurrealism is often classified as a form of Modern Art. However, the Surrealists themselves have objected to the study of surrealism as an era in art history, claiming that it oversimplifies the complexity of the movement (which they say is not an artistic movement), misrepresents the relationship of surrealism to aesthetics, and falsely characterizes ongoing surrealism as a finished, historically encapsulated era. Other forms of Modern art (some of which border on Contemporary art) include:\nTime Period: \n\nModern art foreshadowed several characteristics of what would later be defined as postmodern art; as a matter of fact, several modern art movements can often be classified as both modern and postmodern, such as pop art. Postmodern art, for instance, places a strong emphasis on irony, parody and humour in general; modern art started to develop a more ironic approach to art which would later advance in a postmodern context. Postmodern art sees the blurring between the high and fine arts with low-end and commercial art; modern art started to experiment with this blurring.\nRecent developments in art have been characterised by a significant expansion of what can now deemed to be art, in terms of materials, media, activity and concept. Conceptual art in particular has had a wide influence. This started literally as the replacement of concept for a made object, one of the intentions of which was to refute the commodification of art. However, it now usually refers to an artwork where there is an object, but the main claim for the work is made for the thought process that has informed it. The aspect of commercialism has returned to the work.\n\nThere has also been an increase in art referring to previous movements and artists, and gaining validity from that reference.\n\nPostmodernism in art, which has grown since the 1960s, differs from Modernism in as much as Modern art movements were primarily focused on their own activities and values, while Postmodernism uses the whole range of previous movements as a reference point. This has by definition generated a relativistic outlook, accompanied by irony and a certain disbelief in values, as each can be seen to be replaced by another. Another result of this has been the growth of commercialism and celebrity. Postmodern art has questioned common rules and guidelines of what is regarded as 'fine art', merging low art with the fine arts until none is fully distinguishable. Before the advent of postmodernism, the fine arts were characterised by a form of aesthetic quality, elegance, craftsmanship, finesse and intellectual stimulation which was intended to appeal to the upper or educated classes; this distinguished high art from low art, which, in turn, was seen as tacky, kitsch, easily made and lacking in much or any intellectual stimulation, art which was intended to appeal to the masses. Postmodern art blurred these distinctions, bringing a strong element of kitsch, commercialism and campness into contemporary fine art; what is nowadays seen as fine art may have been seen as low art before postmodernism revolutionised the concept of what high or fine art truly is. In addition, the postmodern nature of contemporary art leaves a lot of space for individualism within the art scene; for instance, postmodern art often takes inspiration from past artistic movements, such as Gothic or Baroque art, and both juxtaposes and recycles styles from these past periods in a different context.\n\nSome surrealists in particular Joan Miró, who called for the \"murder of painting\" (In numerous interviews dating from the 1930s onwards, Miró expressed contempt for conventional painting methods and his desire to \"kill\", \"murder\", or \"rape\" them in favor of more contemporary means of expression). have denounced or attempted to \"supersede\" painting, and there have also been other anti-painting trends among artistic movements, such as that of Dada and conceptual art. The trend away from painting in the late 20th century has been countered by various movements, for example the continuation of Minimal Art, Lyrical Abstraction, Pop Art, Op Art, New Realism, Photorealism, Neo Geo, Neo-expressionism, and Stuckism and various other important and influential painterly directions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34399645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34399645", "title": "Aztec Massacre", "text": "Aztec Massacre\n\nAztec Massacre is a 2008 television documentary produced by Thirteen/WNET New York and ITVS International and broadcast as part of PBS's \"Secrets of the Dead\" series. It presents the grisly discovery of more than 400 mutilated skeletons at the Aztec site of Zultapec, Mexico. It purports to show that the 500-year-old discovery “paints a new picture of the violent relations between the Aztecs and the Conquistadors and rewrites much of what we thought we knew about the Aztec civilization”. The accuracy of many of the program's assertions, however, has been questioned.\n\n\"Aztec Massacre\" presents a mix of interviews, historical re-enactments and computer-generated images woven together by a narrator. It follows the travels and investigations of “outside expert” Elizabeth Baquedano and interviews archeologists, anthropologists, history and forensics experts and other scientists. Baquedano visits archives, archeological sites and the National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) in Mexico City. She talks to Enrique Martinez (site excavator), Magali Civera (an osteologist), Carmen Aguilera (a scholar and authority on the \"Florentine Codex\"), and Adrian Locke (Curator at the Royal Academy of Arts in London).\n\nThe documentary centers on Martinez and his archaeological excavations at Zultepec, about 60 miles from Mexico City. A mass Aztec grave of at least 400 bodies had remained undisturbed there for around 500 years until archeologists began exploring the site. At least 40 of the bodies were discovered to be European and 10 of those were females. The mass grave contained dismembered bodies with vertebra, pelvic and femur bones missing from the skeletons. All the bodies show evidence of ritual killing, where the chest was opened up with a knife and the bodies were mutilated. More than two-dozen skulls are pierced through the temples, suggesting they were hung as trophies.\n\nThe first Spanish in Mexico were led by Hernán Cortés and the Aztecs were ruled by the powerful Moctezuma II. The documentary re-enacts how the Aztecs, although highly uncertain as to how to respond, believed Cortes was fulfilling an ancient prophecy as a returning god when he abruptly appeared in 1519. They gave him precious gifts and entertained the Spanish lavishly. Cortés initially had an all-male crew, but a second party, following him out of Cuba, had women with them, which helps date the mass grave. In 1520, this caravan of Spanish soldiers — among them women, children, slaves and local followers — was abandoned by Cortés, as he rushed back to the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (modern-day Mexico City) to put down a native uprising. The findings at Zultepec, plus evidence in ancient documents (Aztec codices depicting ritualistic displays of human sacrifice), show that the abandoned Spanish were captured and offered to the Aztec gods, along with natives from local tribes who were helping the Spanish against their Aztec masters. The Aztecs practiced human sacrifice and the documentary narrates how Cortés wrote about how the victim's chest was opened while they were alive and their still beating heart offered as sacrifices. Cannibalism followed.\n\nThe film indicates that, because history is \"written by the victors\", there is an impression that the Aztecs simply let the Spanish take them over without a fight. The new evidence suggests instead that they fought hard to resist conquest.\n\nThe film has been criticized for both contextual misrepresentations and factual errors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68029", "title": "Bilbao", "text": "Bilbao\n\nBilbao (; ; ) is a city in northern Spain, the largest city in the province of Biscay and in the Basque Country as a whole. It is also the largest city proper in northern Spain. Bilbao is the tenth largest city in Spain, with a population of 345,141 as of 2015. The Bilbao metropolitan area has roughly 1 million inhabitants, making it one of the most populous metropolitan areas in northern Spain; with a population of 875,552 the comarca of Greater Bilbao is the fifth-largest urban area in Spain. Bilbao is also the main urban area in what is defined as the Greater Basque region.\n\nBilbao is situated in the north-central part of Spain, some south of the Bay of Biscay, where the economic social development is located, where the estuary of Bilbao is formed. Its main urban core is surrounded by two small mountain ranges with an average elevation of . Its climate is shaped by the Bay of Biscay low-pressure systems and mild air, moderating summer temperatures by Iberian standards, with low sunshine and high rainfall. The annual temperature range is low for its latitude.\n\nAfter its foundation in the early 14th century by Diego López V de Haro, head of the powerful Haro family, Bilbao was a commercial hub of the Basque Country that enjoyed significant importance in Green Spain. This was due to its port activity based on the export of iron extracted from the Biscayan quarries. Throughout the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth, Bilbao experienced heavy industrialisation, making it the centre of the second-most industrialised region of Spain, behind Barcelona. At the same time an extraordinary population explosion prompted the annexation of several adjacent municipalities. Nowadays, Bilbao is a vigorous service city that is experiencing an ongoing social, economic, and aesthetic revitalisation process, started by the iconic Bilbao Guggenheim Museum, and continued by infrastructure investments, such as the airport terminal, the rapid transit system, the tram line, the Alhóndiga, and the currently under development Abandoibarra and Zorrozaurre renewal projects.\n\nBilbao is also home to football club Athletic Club de Bilbao, a significant symbol for Basque nationalism due to its promotion of only Basque players and one of the most successful clubs in Spanish football history.\n\nOn 19 May 2010, the city of Bilbao was recognised with the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize, awarded by the city state of Singapore, in collaboration with the Swedish Nobel Academy. Considered the Nobel Prize for urbanism, it was handed out on 29 June 2010. On 7 January 2013, its mayor, Iñaki Azkuna, received the 2012 World Mayor Prize awarded every two years by the British foundation The City Mayors Foundation, in recognition of the urban transformation experienced by the Biscayan capital since the 1990s. On 8 November 2017, Bilbao was chosen the Best European City 2018 at The Urbanism Awards 2018, awarded by the international organisation The Academy of Urbanism.\n\nThe official name of the town is Bilbao, as known in most languages of the world. Euskaltzaindia, the official regulatory institution of the Basque language, has agreed that between the two possible names existing in Basque, \"Bilbao\" and \"Bilbo\", the historical name is \"Bilbo\", while \"Bilbao\" is the official name. Although the term \"Bilbo\" does not appear in old documents, in the play \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" by William Shakespeare, there is a reference to swords presumably made of Biscayan iron which he calls \"bilboes\", suggesting that it is a word used since at least the sixteenth century.\n\nThere is no consensus among historians about the origin of the name. Generally accepted accounts state that prior to the 12th century the independent rulers of the territory, named Senores de Zubialdea, were also known as Senores de Bilbao la Vieja. The symbols of their patrimony are the tower and church used in the shield of Bilbao to this day. One possible origin was suggested by the engineer Evaristo de Churruca. He said that it was a Basque custom to name a place after its location. For Bilbao this would be the result of the union of the Basque words for river and cove: \"Bil-Ibaia-Bao\". The historian José Tussel Gómez argues that it is just a natural evolution of the Spanish words \"bello vado\", beautiful river crossing. On the other hand, according to the writer Esteban Calle Iturrino, the name derives from the two settlements that existed on both banks of the estuary, rather than from the estuary itself. The first, where the present Casco Viejo is located, would be called \"billa\", which means stacking in Basque, after the configuration of the buildings. The second, on the left bank, where now Bilbao La Vieja is located, would be called \"vaho\", Spanish for mist or steam. From the union of these two derives the name Bilbao, which was also written as \"Bilvao\" and \"Biluao\", as documented in its municipal charter.\nAn \"-ao\" ending is also present in nearby Sestao and Ugao, that could be explained from Basque \"aho\", \"mouth\".\n\nThe titles, the flag and the coat of arms are Bilbao's traditional symbols and belong to its historic patrimony, being used in formal acts, for the identification and decoration of specific places or for the validation of documents.\n\nBilbao holds the historic category of borough (villa), with the titles of \"Very noble and very loyal and unbeaten\" (\"Muy Noble y Muy Leal e Invicta\"). It was the Catholic Monarchs who awarded the title \"Noble borough\" (\"Noble Villa\") on 20 September 1475. Philip III of Spain, via a letter in 1603 awarded the borough the titles of \"Very noble and very loyal\". After the Siege of Bilbao, during the First Carlist War, on 25 December 1836, the title of \"Unbeaten\" was added.\n\n\nThe coat of arms is emblazoned as follows:\n\nThe flag that represents it is white with a red block, in a ratio of three parts long by two wide. The colors red and white are the historical ones of the villa.\n\nThe Royal Order of 30 July 1845 determined the maritime password for the population. This was defined as a white flag with an upper red die next to the pod. The die should be square and the length of its side should equal half of the pod. Previously, at least since 1511, the banner that the \" Bilbao Consulate \" was wearing was white with a red Cross of Burgundy. The relationship of the town with the mercantile and marine activities was always very strong coming to share headquarters. In 1603 the new consistorial house is inaugurated and in it the headquarters of the city council and of the referred one \" Bilbao Consulate \" are located. The intimate relationship made the flag of the Consulate was related as a flag of the town by citizenship.\n\nThe definition of the maritime flag in 1845 was assumed by the population, who accepted it as their own, and so did the city council. At the inauguration of the Bilbao-Miranda de Ebro railway line, it was already used as a symbol of the town's representation, being permanently adopted in 1895 although no resolution has been adopted for this purpose.\n\nAlthough it has always been assumed by the municipal institution and citizenship, at the beginning of the 20th century it was discussed in a municipal plenary session about the determination of a flag for the town. There was talk about \"the use of the crimson color of the Lordship of Biscay, or of the cross of Saint Andrew\" but without reaching any resolution to the effect.\n\nRemains of an ancient settlement were found on the top of Mount Malmasín, dating from around the 3rd or 2nd century BC. Burial sites were also found on mounts Avril and Artxanda, dated 6,000 years old. Some authors identify the old settlement of Bilbao as \"Amanun Portus\", cited by Pliny the Elder, or with \"Flaviobriga\", by Ptolemy.\n\nAncient walls, which date from around the 11th century, have been discovered below the Church of San Antón. Bilbao was one of the first towns founded in the fourteenth century, during a period in which approximately three-quarters of the Biscayan cities were developed, among them Portugalete in 1323, Ondarroa in 1327, Lekeitio in 1335, and Mungia and Larrabetzu in 1376. Diego López V de Haro, then third Lord of Biscay, founded Bilbao through a municipal charter dated in Valladolid on 15 June 1300 and confirmed by King Ferdinand IV of Castile in Burgos, on 4 January 1301. Diego López established the new town on the right bank of the Nervión river, on the grounds of the \"elizate\" of Begoña and granted it the \"fuero\" of Logroño, a compilation of rights and privileges that would prove fundamental to its later development.\n\nIn 1310 María Díaz I de Haro, niece of Diego López V and Lady of Biscay, grants a new municipal charter to the city, which extends its commercial privileges even further, transforming the city in a mandatory stop for all the trade coming from Castile towards the sea. This second charter established that the road from Orduña to Bermeo, at the time the most important trade route in the lordship, had to traverse the San Antón Bridge in Bilbao instead of the pass in Etxebarri, as it did until then. This strengthened the position of Bilbao as a trading post, in detriment of Bermeo, city which until then had acted as the main port of the territory. In addition, Bilbao was granted exclusive rights to all trade between the city and Las Arenas. In 1372, John I of Castile strengthened even more the city's position by naming Bilbao a free port and granting it special privileges concerning the trade of iron. This caused Bilbao to become an important port, particularly due to its trade with Flanders and Great Britain.\n\nIn 1443 the Church of Saint Anthony the Great was enshrined, having been built in the place of an old \"alcázar\". Still today the church is one of the oldest extant buildings of the city. On 5 September 1483, the Queen Isabella I of Castile traveled to Bilbao to swear fealty to the fueros of Biscay. Her husband, Ferdinand II of Aragon had already done so in 1476 in Gernika.\n\nOn 21 June 1511, Queen Joanna of Castile ordered the creation of the Consulate of the Sea of Bilbao. This would become the most influential institution of the borough for centuries, and would claim jurisdiction over the estuary, improving its infrastructure. Under the Consulate's control, the port of Bilbao became one of the most important of the kingdom. The first printing-press was brought to the town in 1577. Here in 1596, the first book in the Basque language was edited, entitled \"Doctrina Christiana en Romance y Bascuence\" by Dr. Betolaza.\n\nIn 1602 Bilbao was made the capital of Biscay, a title previously held by Bermeo. Around 1631, the city was the scenario of a series of revolts against the increased taxation on salt, which had been ordered by the Crown, an event locally known as the \"\"Machinada\" of the salt\". The revolt ended with the execution of several of its leaders. The city had seen a continuous increase of its wealth, especially after the discovery of extensive iron deposits in the surrounding mountains, and by the end of the century it managed to overcome the economic crises that affected the rest of the kingdom, thanks in part to the increased trading of wool (which now used the port of Bilbao instead of the one in Santander), and to the iron ore and its commerce with England and the Netherlands.\n\nThe French invasion of Spain saw the occupation of several Basque cities, but Bilbao was not among them. The first open uprising against Napoleonic rule took place on 6 August 1808, a month later of the Battle of Bailén. French troops sieged and sacked the city, alongside the neighbouring towns of Deusto and Begoña, 16 August. Beginning on February 1810, the city was under the command of Pierre Thouvenot, general of the French army and Baron of the Empire, who had become the head of the Military Government of \"Vizcaya\", which included the three Basque provinces. Thouvenot intended to move forward with the plan of total annexation of the Basque provinces into France, but the Peninsular War and ultimately the Battle of Vitoria made those plans impossible.\n\nThe Basque Country was one of the main sites of battles during the First Carlist War, a civil war between supporters of the Spanish regent Maria Christina, known as liberals, and those of the late king's brother Carlos of Borbón, known as Carlists. The Carlists were particularly focused on capturing Bilbao, a liberal and economic bastion in northern Spain. The Carlist general Tomás de Zumalacárregui tried to take the city during the Siege of Bilbao of 1835, but he was wounded during a battle near Begoña and died some time after in the town of Zegama. The next year, the city resisted a second siege during which the liberal general Baldomero Espartero defeated the Carlists in the Battle of Luchana. The city was untouched by the Second Carlist War, which took place mostly in Catalonia, but was again an important scenario during the Third Carlist War; in April 1874 the city suffered a third siege which lasted two months.\n\nDespite the warfare, Bilbao prospered during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, when it rose as the economic centre of the Basque Country. It was during this time that the railway first arrived to the city and the Bank of Bilbao (which later would go on to become the BBVA) was founded, as well as the Bilbao Stock Exchange. Steelmaking industries flourished with the creation of many new factories, including the Santa Ana de Bolueta and the Altos Hornos de Vizcaya in 1902. The city was modernised with new avenues and walkways, as well as with new modern buildings such as the City Hall building, the Basurto Hospital and the Arriaga Theatre. The population increased dramatically, from 11,000 in 1880 to 80,000 in 1900. Social movements also arose, notably Basque nationalism under Sabino Arana, which in the subsequent decades would grow to become the Basque Nationalist Party.\n\nThe Spanish Civil War started in Bilbao with a number of small uprisings suppressed by the Republican forces. On 31 August 1936, the city suffered it first bombing, with a series of air bombs dropped by Nationalist airplanes. In September, the Nationalists distributed pamphlets threatening of further bombing if the city did not give up, which finally took place on 25 September when German planes, in coordination with Francoist forces, dropped at least a hundred bombs on the city. In May 1937, the Nationalist army besieged the town. The battle lasted until 19 June of that year, when Lieutenant Colonel Putz was ordered to destroy all bridges over the estuary, and the troops of the 5th Brigade took the borough from the mountains Malmasin, Pagasarri, and Arnotegi.\n\nWith the war over, Bilbao returned to its industrial development, accompanied by a steady population growth. In the 1940s, the city was rebuilt, starting with the bridges and by 1948, the first commercial flight took off from the local airport. Over the next decade, there was a revival of the iron industry, which became a strategic industrial sector in Spain, as a consequence of the economic model promoted by the Francoism. The city received migrants from other Spanish regions looking to work in the iron industry. The demand for housing outstripped supply, and workers built slums on the hillsides. It was in this context that the first social movements arose and the strike of the \"Euskalduna\" shipyard in 1947 was the first one to take place during the Francoist dictatorship. In this environment of social repression, on 31 July 1959 the terrorist organisation ETA was created as an excision of the Basque nationalist movements. During the decade of 1960 the city was the scenario of several urban projects, with the creation of new neighbourhoods like Otxarkoaga and the motorway to the French border. In June 1968 the public university first arrived to the city with the establishment of the University of Bilbao, which later would be integrated into the University of the Basque Country.\n\nAfter the fall of Francoist Spain and the establishment of a constitutional monarchy, in a process known in Spain as the transition, Bilbao was able to hold democratic elections again. This time Basque nationalists rose to power. With the approval of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country in 1979, Vitoria-Gasteiz was elected the seat of the government and therefore the \"de facto\" capital of the Basque Autonomous Community, although Bilbao was larger and more powerful economically. In the 1980s, several factors such as labor demands and the arrival of cheap labor from abroad led to a devastating industrial crisis.\n\nOn 26 August 1983 during the celebration of the local festivities known as \"Aste Nagusia\", the estuary overflowed up to five metres in some areas due to the continuous raining, killing two persons and causing important destructions in the city's infrastructure, with a total economic cost that reached 60,000 million pesetas (around 360 million Euro)\n\nSince the mid-1990s, Bilbao has been in a process of deindustrialization and transition to a service economy, supported by investment in infrastructure and urban renewal, starting with the opening of the Bilbao Guggenheim Museum (the so-called \"Guggenheim effect\"), and continuing with the Euskalduna Conference Centre and Concert Hall, Santiago Calatrava's Zubizuri, the metro network by Norman Foster, the tram, the Iberdrola Tower and the Zorrozaurre development plan, among others. Many officially supported associations such as Bilbao Metrópoli-30 and Bilbao Ría 2000 were created to monitor these projects.\n\nBilbao is located near the northern edge of the Iberian Peninsula, about from the Bay of Biscay. It covers an area of , of which are urban and the remaining consist of the surrounding mountains. The official average altitude is , although there are measurements between and . It is also the core of the \"comarca\" of Greater Bilbao. It is surrounded by the municipalities of Derio, Etxebarri, Galdakao, Loiu, Sondika, and Zamudio to the north; Arrigorriaga and Basauri to the west; Alonsotegi to the south; and Barakaldo and Erandio to the east.\n\nBilbao is located on the Basque threshold, the range between the larger Cantabrian Mountains and the Pyrenees. The soil is predominantly composed of mesozoic materials (limestone, sandstone, and marl) sedimented over a primitive paleozoic base. The relief of the province is dominated by NW-SE and WNW-ESE oriented folds. The main fold is the anticline of Bilbao which runs from the municipality of Elorrio to Galdames. Inside Bilbao there are two secondary folds, one in the northeast, composed of Mounts Artxanda, Avril, Banderas, Pikota, San Bernabé, and Cabras; and other in the south, composed of Mounts Kobetas, Restaleku, Pagasarri and Arraiz. The highest point in the municipality is Mount Ganeta, of , followed by Mount Pagasarri, of , both on the border with Alonsotegi.\n\nThe main river system of Bilbao is also the hydrological artery of Biscay. The rivers Nervión and Ibaizabal converge in Basauri and form an estuary named variously \"estuary of Bilbao\", \"of the Nervión\", \"of the Ibaizabal\", or \"of the Nervión-Ibaizabal\". The estuary runs for and with a low flow (with an average of per second). Its main tributary is the river Cadagua, which rises in the Mena valley and has a basin of , mostly lying in the neighboring province of Burgos. This river is also the natural border between Bilbao and Barakaldo.\n\nThe river has frequently suffered from human intervention, as seen in the dredging of its bottom, the building of docks on both banks and especially in the Deusto canal, an artificial waterway dug between 1950 and 1968 in the district of Deusto as a lateral canal, with the aim of facilitating navigation, sparing ships from the natural curves of the estuary. The project was stopped with left to complete, and it was decided to leave it as a dock. However, in 2007, a plan was approved to continue the canal and form the island of Zorrozaurre. This human intervention has also brought negative results in the quality of the water, after decades of toxic waste dumping causing a situation of anoxia (lack of oxygen), which almost eliminated the entire fauna and flora. However, in recent years this situation is being reversed, thanks to a dumping ban and natural regeneration. now it is possible to observe algae, tonguefishes, crabs, and seabirds, as well as occasional bathers in the summer months.\n\nThe estuary is also a natural border for several neighbourhoods and districts within the borough. Entering the municipality from the west it separates the districts of Begoña and Ibaiondo, then Abando and Uribarri and lastly Deusto and Basurto-Zorroza.\n\nIts proximity to the Bay of Biscay gives Bilbao an oceanic climate (Cfb), with precipitation occurring throughout the year and without a well-defined dry summer. Precipitation is abundant, and given the latitude and atmospheric dynamics, rainy days represent 45% and cloudy days 40% of the annual total. The rainiest season is between October and April, November being the wettest. Snow is not frequent in Bilbao, although it is possible to see snow on the top of the surrounding mountains. Sleet is more frequent, about 10 days per year, mainly in the winter months. Bilbao is nearest to the subtropical boundary of all the Atlantic coastal cities in the country with an August daily mean of . There is also a drying trend in summer with only around of rainfall in July – but not dry enough to be considered Mediterranean.\n\nThe proximity of the ocean also means that the two best defined seasons (summer and winter) remain mild, with low intensity thermal oscillations. Average maximum temperatures vary between in the summer months, while the average minimum in winter is between .\n\nExtreme record observations in Bilbao are maximum (on 13 August 2003) and minimum (on 3 February 1963). The maximum precipitation in a day was on 26 August 1983 when severe flooding was caused by the Nervión river.\n\nAccording to the Basque Statistics Office, the population of Bilbao is 342,397 people as of 2017, distributed on a land area of , making Bilbao the largest city by population of the Basque Autonomous Community and of the Basque Country as a whole. Bilbao makes the main component of the Bilbao metropolitan area, with a population of 1,037,847 people.\n\nThe first credible data on the population of Bilbao are post-1550. It is known that in 1530 Biscay had approximately 65,000 inhabitants, a number that could have been reduced by plagues that struck the city in 1517, 1530, 1564–68, and 1597–1601, the last being especially devastating. This trend for periodic reverses in population growth was maintained until the nineteenth century. Since then, Bilbao has experienced an exponential growth in population thanks to industrialisation. After a peak of 433,115 inhabitants in 1982, the municipalities of the Txorierri valley were removed from Bilbao, with the corresponding loss of their population.\n\nSpanish is the most spoken language in the city, followed by the vernacular Basque language. According to the city government of Bilbao, at least 51% of the population can speak \"some Basque\", while 29% consider themselves to be fluent.\n\nOut of the 355,731 people residing in Bilbao in 2009, only 114,220 (32.1%) were born inside the municipality. Of the remainder, 114,908 were born in other Biscayan towns, while 9,545 were born in the other two Basque provinces; 85,789 came from the rest of Spain (mainly Castile-León and Galicia), and 33,537 were foreigners. There are 127 different nationalities registered in Bilbao, although 60 of them represent fewer than 10 people each. The largest foreign communities are Bolivians and Colombians, with 4,879 and 3,730 respectively. Other nationalities with more than 1,000 inhabitants are Romanians (2,248), Moroccans (2,058), Ecuadorians (1,832), Chinese (1,390), Brazilians (1,273) and Paraguayans, with 1,204.\n\nThe city of Bilbao is the capital of the province of Biscay and as such it is home of the administrative entities that pertain to the provincial administration, both from the autonomous and central governments. Settled in the city are the provincial delegations of the different departments of the Basque autonomous government, each coordinated by a representative. In addition, the Government of Spain has the official Government Subdelegation in the city.\n\nBilbao is a municipality and has a mayor-council government system. The municipal government is elected for four-year terms by universal suffrage and it is divided into two branches, executive and legislative. The legislative side consists of a municipal plenum composed of 29 councillors. These councillors represent the different political parties elected in the local elections, for which can vote all residents registered in the city who are citizens of Spain or of any member state of the European Union. The executive branch is composed of the mayor and a board of governors. The number of members of the board cannot be more than a third the number of members of the legislative plenum and the mayor can appoint them at his or her own discretion.\n\nSince 1892 the seat of the government has been the Bilbao City Hall, located on the centric Ernesto Erkoreka plaza and by the Estuary of Bilbao. It is the fourth city hall building to have been used since the year 1300. The first three city halls were located by the San Antón Church but were destroyed due to floodings. The current building was designed by the Spanish architect Joaquín Rucoba in Baroque style and was built in the former site of the San Agustín Monastery, which was destroyed during the First Carlist War. Since the Spanish transition to democracy, the city has been governed by the Basque Nationalist Party, often with support of the Socialist Party of the Basque Country. Iñaki Azkuna served as mayor from 1999 until his passing in 2014, when he was replaced by Ibon Areso. Azkuna was awarded the World Mayor prize in 2012. Since the 2015 municipal election, the councillors of the plenum have the following political distribution: 13 seats for the Basque Nationalist Party, 4 seats for the EH Bildu coalition, 4 seats for the Socialist Party of the Basque Country, 4 seats for the People's Party, 2 seats for Udalberri and 2 seats for Ganemos Bilbao. The mayor is Juan Mari Aburto, chosen with 17 votes from the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist party.\n\nIn 2008 and 2010, Bilbao won the Municipal Transparency Prize, awarded by the Spanish division of Transparency International. In 2009 it came second, after Sant Cugat del Vallés.\n\nThe municipality is divided into eight districts (Basque: \"barrutia\") which are further subdivided into 34 neighbourhoods (Basque: \"auzoa\"). Most of the districts and neighbourhoods were former independent municipalities and elizates that were eventually annexed into the city. Originally, the city of Bilbao comprised the Old Town and some houses on the left side of the estuary, today known as Bilbao la Vieja. The first expansion included the annexation of the elizate of Begoña and the river side of Uribarri. In the 19th century the merge of Abando into the city brought along small neighbourhoods of farm houses and hamlets that were clustered close to the former municipality's town hall and the Mount Cobetas, such as Errekalde and Basurto. Starting in the 20th century it started annexing the elizates on the right bank of the river, including Begoña and Deusto. In the decade of 1960 as an effort to stop the increasing problem of slums, new neighbourhoods were created from the ground up, among them Otxarkoaga and Txurdinaga, which were joined together as a new district, Otxarkoaga-Txurdinaga in the decade of 1990.\n\nThe Bilbao metropolitan area comprises about 47% of the total population of the Basque autonomous community, out of which a 15% is registered in the municipality of Bilbao. The \"comarca\" of Greater Bilbao, in which the city occupies a central position, has a GDP per capita of €30,860, higher than the Spanish and European Union averages. The Bilbao metropolitan area has a nominal GDP amounting to $36,9 billion. Bilbao has been the economic centre of the Basque autonomous community since the original establishment of the Consulate of the Sea in the city in the 16th century, mostly thanks to the commerce in Castilian products on the town's port. It was in the 19th century when the city experimented its biggest economic development, mainly based on the exploitation of the nearby iron mines and siderurgy, both of which promoted maritime traffic and port activity and eventually the development of a very important shipbuilding industry.\n\nBanking became an important sector with the establishment of the Bank of Bilbao (Spanish: \"Banco de Bilbao\") in 1857 and the Bank of Biscay (Spanish: \"Banco de Vizcaya\") in 1901. These two entities merged in 1988 creating the BBV, which finally merged with Argentaria bank in 1999, creating the current multinational corporation, the BBVA. The savings banks that were established locally, the Municipal Savings Bank of Bilbao (Spanish: \"Caja de Ahorros Municipal de Bilbao\") in 1907 and the Provincial Savings Bank of Biscay (Spanish: \"Caja de Ahorros Provincial de Vizcaya\") in 1921, would merge in 1990 to form the Bilbao Bizkaia Kutxa (BBK), which would marge again in 2012 with other Basque financial entities (Kutxa and Caja Vital Kutxa) to form Kutxabank. There is also the Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Navigation of Bilbao and the Stock Exchange Market of Bilbao, founded in 1890.\n\nThe historical port was located in what is today an area called the Arenal, a few steps from the old city, until the late 20th century. In 1902, an exterior port was built at the mouth of the estuary, in the coastal municipality of Santurtzi. Further extensions to the outer port, which became called \"the super-port\", led to the final move of the city portuary facilities in the 1970s, finally replacing the docks in the centre of the city, with the exception of those located in the neighbourhood of Zorrotza, still active.\n\nThe port of Bilbao is a first-class commercial port and is among the top five of Spain. Over 200 regular maritime services link Bilbao with 500 ports worldwide. At the close of 2009 cargo movements amounted to 31.6 million tonnes, Russia, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the Nordic countries being the main markets. In the first semester of 2008, it received over 67,000 passengers and 2,770 ships. This activity contributed 419 million euros to the Basque GDP and maintains almost 10,000 jobs.\n\nIron is the main and most abundant raw material found in Biscay, and its extraction has been legally regulated since 1526. Mining was the main primary activity in Bilbao and the minerals, of great quality, were exported to all over Europe. It was not until the second half of the nineteenth century that an ironworks industry was developed, benefiting from the resources and the city's good communication links. In the 20th century, both Spanish and European capitals imported around 90% of the iron from Biscay. Although World War I made Bilbao one of the main ironworks powers, a subsequent crisis prompted a decline in the activity.\n\nThe first notion of Bilbao as a tourist destination came with the inauguration of the railway between Bilbao and the coastal neighbourhood of Las Arenas, in the municipality of Getxo in 1872. The connection made Bilbao a minor beach destination.\n\nThe real tourist surge though would come much later with the inauguration of the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in 1997. Thereafter tourist arrivals registered a continued upward trend, reaching over 615,000 visitors in 2009. The trend was exponential considering that in 1995, Bilbao only counted 25,000 tourists. Bilbao also hosts 31% of the total Basque Country visitors, being the top destination of this autonomous community, outranking San Sebastián. The majority of tourists are domestic visitors, coming from Madrid and Catalonia. International travellers are predominantly French, crossing the border just to the east. The others arrive from the United Kingdom, Germany, and Italy. Tourism generates about 300 million euros yearly for the Biscayan GDP. Bilbao also draws business tourism, having been equipped with facilities like the Euskalduna Conference Centre and Concert Hall, and the Bilbao Exhibition Centre, in nearby Barakaldo.\n\nPlans to create a stock exchange market in Bilbao began in the early 19th century, even though it would not be realized until 21 July 1890. Bilbao's institution is one of the country's four regional stock exchanges, joining Barcelona, Madrid, and Valencia as Spain's commercial centres. It is owned by Bolsas y Mercados Españoles. The Bilbao Stock Exchange is considered a secondary market.\n\nIn its beginnings, Bilbao only had three streets (\"Somera\", \"Artecalle\", and \"Tendería\") surrounded by walls located where Ronda street now stands. Inside this enclosure, there was a small hermitage dedicated to the Apostle Saint James (the current St. James' Cathedral), which pilgrims visited on their way to Santiago de Compostela. In the fifteenth century, four more streets were built, forming the original \"Zazpikaleak\" or \"Seven Streets\". In 1571, after several floods and a major fire in 1569, the walls were demolished in order to allow the expansion of the town.\n\nIn 1861, engineer Amado Lázaro projected an \"ensanche\" inside the then-municipality of Abando with wide avenues and regular buildings, that included the hygienists ideas of the time. The project was mostly based on Barcelona's \"Eixample\", designed by Ildefons Cerdà. However, the project was dropped by the City Council after considering it \"utopian and excessive\" because of its high cost, though of great quality. Furthermore, Lázaro had calculated the demographic growth of the town was based on the previous three centuries, a provision that eventually would not conform to reality.\n\nThe next large urban change in Bilbao would come in 1876, when the capital annexed (in several stages) the neighbouring municipality of Abando. The new \"ensanche\" project was planned by a team made of architect Severino de Achúcarro and engineers Pablo de Alzola (elected Mayor that same year), and Ernesto de Hoffmeyer. Unlike Lázaro's, this project was significantly smaller, compassing against the original . It also featured a not so strict grid pattern, a park to separate the industrial and residential areas and the Gran Vía de Don Diego López de Haro, the main thoroughfare, where many relevant buildings were located, such as the Biscay provincial government hall or the BBVA Tower. By the end of the 1890s, this widening was half completed and already filled, so a new extension was planned by Federico Ugalde.\n\nBy 1925, the municipalities of Deusto and Begoña, as well as part of Erandio were annexed, and in 1940, the remaining part of Erandio became part of Bilbao. The last annexation took place in 1966, with the municipalities of Loiu, Sondika, Derio, and Zamudio. This made Bilbao larger than ever, with . However, all these municipalities, with the exception of Deusto and Begoña regained their independence on 1 January 1983.\n\nOn 18 May 2010, the government of Singapore awarded Bilbao the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize, at the World Cities Summit 2010. It is considered the Pritzker of urbanism.\n\nBilbao's buildings display a variety of architectural styles, ranging from gothic, Art Deco, Art Nouveau, Neo-Gothic and contemporary architecture. The Old Town features many of the oldest buildings in the city, as the St. James' Cathedral or the Church of San Antón, included in the borough's coat of arms. Most of the Old Town is a pedestrian zone during the day. Nearby is one of the most important religious temples of Biscay, the Basilica of Begoña, dedicated to the patron saint of the province, Our Lady of Begoña.\n\nSeventeen bridges span the banks of the estuary inside the town's boundaries. Among the most interesting ones are the Zubizuri (Basque for \"white bridge\"), a pedestrian footbridge designed by Santiago Calatrava opened in 1997, and the Princes of Spain Bridge, also known as \"La Salve\", a suspension bridge opened in 1972 and redesigned by French conceptual artist Daniel Buren in 2007. The Deusto Bridge is a bascule bridge opened in 1936 and modelled after the Michigan Avenue Bridge, in Chicago. Between 1890 and 1893 the first transporter bridge (\"Puente Colgante\") in the world on the Nervion river, between Portugalete and Getxo, was built by Alberto Palacio (architect and engineer) together with his brother Silvestre.\n\nSince the deindustrialization process started in the 1990s, many of the former industrial areas are being transformed into modern public and private spaces designed by several of the world's most renowned architects and artists. The main example is the Guggenheim Museum, located in what was an old dock and wood warehouse. The building, designed by Frank Gehry and inaugurated in October 1997, is considered among architecture experts as one of the most important structures of the last 30 years, and a masterpiece by itself. The museum houses part of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation modern art collection. Another example is the Alhóndiga, a wine warehouse built in 1909 and completely redesigned in 2010 by French designer Philippe Starck into a multi-purpose venue that consists of a cinema multiplex, a fitness centre, a library, and a restaurant, among other spaces. The Abandoibarra area is also being renovated, and it features not only the Guggenheim Museum, but also Arata Isozaki's tower complex, the Euskalduna Conference Centre and Concert Hall and the Iberdrola Tower, designed by Argentine architect César Pelli which is, since its completion in 2011, the Basque Country's tallest skyscraper, high. Zorrozaurre is the next area to be redeveloped, following a 2007 master plan designed by Iraqi architect Zaha Hadid. This peninsula was transformed into a island and will feature residential and commercial buildings, as well as the new BBK seat.\n\n, Bilbao has 18 public parks inside its limits, totalling of green spaces. Besides, its green belt has a total area of , of which are urbanized. The largest parks are Mount Cobetas, of , and Larreagaburu, of , both located on the outskirts.\n\nThe Doña Casilda Iturrizar park is located in the district of Abando, near the town centre and covers an area of . It is named after a local benefactress who donated the grounds to the borough. It is an English-style garden designed by Ricardo Bastida and opened to the public in 1907. It features a dancing water fountain surrounded by a pergola, and a pond with many species of ducks, geese and swans, which gives the park the alternate name of \"Ducks' Park\", as known locally. In recent years, it was expanded to be connected with the Abandoibarra area. In Ibaiondo, the Etxeberria Park was built in the 1980s in the place where a steel mill previously stood. The original chimney was maintained as a homage of its industrial past. It covers an area of , on a sloped terrain that overlooks the Old Town. Other relevant public spaces inside the city include the Europa Park, the Miribilla Park, or the Memorial Walkway, a long walkway, with high lamps, located in the left bank of the estuary and that connects the main sights.\n\nMount Artxanda is easily accessible from the town centre by a funicular. There is a recreational area at the summit, with restaurants, a sports complex and a balcony with panoramic views. In the south, Mount Pagasarri receives hundreds of hikers every weekend since the 1870s, who seek its natural wonders. Its environment is officially protected since 2007.\n\nBilbao was appointed a \"City of Design\" by UNESCO in 2014 and has been part of the Creative Cities Network since then.\n\nThe main hall of the city is the Arriaga Theater, reopened in 1985 as a municipal venue with a varied repertoire that includes dancing, opera, live music and theatre. Also very active are the Campos Elíseos Theater and the Euskalduna Concert Hall. Other important venues include La Fundición, dedicated to contemporary dances and theatre; the Pabellón 6, the Sala BBK and the Azkuna Zentroa.\n\nBilbao has more than a dozen museums covering a range of fields including art, science, and sport, which have played a central role in Bilbao being named one of the most creative cities in the world.\n\nThe Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, part of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, was inaugurated on 19 October 1997 and is work of the Canadian architect Frank Gehry. The museum's permanent collection is centered in the visual arts of the second half of the 20th century and the present, with relevant artworks from Richard Serra and Jeff Koons, although including as well temporary exhibitions with a more varied nature, like Russian art or engravings from Albrecht Dürer.\n\nAnother important museum is the Bilbao Fine Arts Museum, first established in 1908 and housing a notable collection of Spanish and European work from the 12th century to present times. The collection from before the 20th century is centered mainly around Spanish and Flemish artists such as El Greco, Francisco de Zurbarán, Bartolomé Esteban Murillo, Francisco Goya and Anthony van Dyck. The museum also holds one of the best collections of Basque art, with works from the 19th century to present times. It has an eye-catching collection of Avant-garde art, from the Post-Impressionism of Paul Gauguin to Pop art and the expressionism of Francis Bacon.\n\nThe Basque Museum showcases Basque archaeology and ethnography, and holds frequent exhibitions in the area of Basque history. The museum building itself is part of the heritage listing \"Conjunto histórico\". The city also has several specialised museums, like the Maritime Museum Estuary of Bilbao (\"Bilboko Itsasadarra Itsas Museoa\"), located next to the Estuary of Bilbao, which holds ships and other collection related to the region's fishing and shipbuilding culture, being particularly relevant the \"Carola\" crane, last remaining element of the Euskalduna shipyard that existed where the museum now stands.\n\nOther relevant museums are the Biscayan Archeological Museum (\"Arkeologi Museoa\") which holds important collections related to the region's prehistory, and the Diocesan Museum of Religious Art (\"Eleiz Museoa\"), both located in the Casco Viejo quarter.\n\nThe Euskalduna Concert Hall is home to frequent musical performances and it is home of the Bilbao Symphony Orchestra (\"Bilbao Orkestra Sinfonikoa\"). The Arriaga Theater is frequent the host of numerous musical events, other notable stages include the Philharmonic Society of Bilbao and Bilborock. The city hosts many different musical festivities, often funded by the city hall. Due to its scope, it is especially relevant the Bilbao BBK Live festival, which has been celebrated every year since 2006 and focuses on Basque, Spanish and international pop and rock music. Since the opening of the new San Mamés Stadium in 2013, it has been often used as an open-air concert venue, the first ever concert being one from the American band Guns N'Roses in 2017. Other relevant music festivals include the \"Bilbao Distrito Jazz\" and the \"Bilbao Ars Sacrum\", the latter dedicated to religious music.\n\nBilbao is the birthplace of famous composer Juan Crisóstomo Arriaga, who lived his formative years in the city before moving to Paris at age 15. Also native from Bilbao were the soprano singer Josefa Cruz de Gassier and Natividad Álvarez, nicknamed \"Nati, la bilbainita\" (Spanish for \"Nati, the little one from Bilbao\") a dancer and castanets player who achieved national fame in the early 20th century. Also relevant is the Bilbao Choir Society (\"Bilboko Koral Elkartea\"), established in 1866. Important musical bands coming from the city include rock band \"Fito & Fitipaldis\", Basque folk band \"Oskorri\" and folk-pop band \"Mocedades\".\n\nBilbao will host the 2018 MTV Europe Music Awards.\n\nBilbao hosts several regular festivals and events. The most relevant is the Big Week of the city (\"Aste Nagusia\"), celebrated annually since 1978 and lasting nine days. It is the city's main festival, attracting over 1,500,000 people every year. The festivities begin on the first Saturday before 22 August, and during those nine days the city hall organises a series of cultural events of diverse kind, including concerts, stage plays, Basque rural sports and bullfighting, as well as nightly firework displays. The festivities begin with the \"chupinazo\" or \"txupinazo\", which is the launch of a small rocket, and the reading of a proclamation by the festivities' herald. The central point of the festivities is the place around the \"txosnas\", where the different \"konpartsak\" are reunited, organised by neighbourhood associations as well as cultural, social and political groups. The symbol of the festivities is \"Marijaia\", a large doll which is burned during the last day of celebrations.\n\nBeyond the main festivities of the \"Aste Nagusia\", the city also celebrates some minor festivities, many of them religious in nature, such as Saint Agatha on 5 February, the celebrations of Our Lady of Begoña on 11 October, the Day of Thomas the Apostle on 21 December and the Christmas festivities, centered around the figure of Olentzero. There are also festivities in the different neighbourhoods and districts which are celebrated locally, such as the \"Fiestas del Carmen\" in Santutxu and Indautxu, \"Fiestas Santiago\" in Bilbao la Vieja, \"Fiestas San Ignacio\" in San Inazio and \"Fiestas San Roque\" in Arxtanda and Larraskitu.\n\nThe city also hosts the International Festival of Documentary and Short Film under the commercial name of Zinebi. It was first held in 1959 under the name International Festival of Ibero-American and Filipino Documentary Film of Bilbao, with the goal of being complementary to the San Sebastián International Film Festival. Since 1981 it is organised by the city hall and takes place in the Arriaga Theatre. Bilbao is also the host of the SAIL in Festival, a yearly event centered exclusively around sailing, which brings together international representatives of this sport.\n\nTraditional Bilbao dishes are centered around products from the sea and the estuary, such as eels and cod. For the most part Bilbao shares its original gastronomy with that of the province of Biscay, including dishes such as \"bacalao al pil pil\" (cod fish cooked with olive oil, garlic and guindilla peppers), \"bacalao a la vizcaína\" (salted cod with Biscayan sauce, mostly made of \"choricero\" peppers and onions), \"merluza en salsa verde\" (hake fish with green sauce), \"chipirones en su tinta\" (squid served with its own ink), \"morros a la vizcaína\" (beef snouts with Biscayan sauce), \"revuelto de perretxikos\" (scrambled eggs with mushrooms) and desserts such as \"canutillos de Bilbao\" (puff pastries filled with custard or chocolate), \"Pantxineta\" (puff pastries filled with custard and almonds), rice cakes and \"bollos de mantequilla\" (butter buns).\n\nBilbao, as other Basque cities, is known for a variety of appetizers and snacks, being prominent among them the \"pintxos\", which are typically eaten in bars and that consist of small slices of bread on top of which is placed an ingredient or mixture of ingredients, generally of many different types and usually including elements typical of Basque cuisine. Other snacks include \"rabas\" (fried or battered calamari rings, usually served with lemon slices), Spanish omelette (omelette made with eggs and potatoes, sometimes including onions and peppers), \"txampis\" (stuffed mushrooms), \"triángulos\" (Bilbao-style sandwiches), \"gildas\" (one or more olives, a \"guindilla\" pepper and an anchovy joined together with a toothpick).\n\nIn what refers to beverages, typical from the region is the \"txakoli\", a white wine drank usually as an apéritif. Biscayan \"txakoli\" (\"Bizkaiko Txakolina\") is a protected \"Denominación de origen\" for the white wine produced in the province of Biscay and it is usually served in Bilbao. Also typical are cider, \"patxaran\" (sloe-flavoured liqueur) and \"Rioja\" wine.\n\nThere are many restaurants and bars who serve these dishes and beverages, especially around the Casco Viejo quarter. \"Txokos\" are also a very popular institution in Bilbao, as in other Basque cities and towns.\n\nThe Spanish language is the most used language of the city, followed by the Basque language, which is vernacular to the region. The presence of Basque in the city is less prominent than in other municipalities of the region, such as Bermeo or Lekeitio. In 1986, the bilingual Basque-speaking population represented about 28% of the total. However, the number of Basque speakers has experienced a continuous increase since, reaching a number of 37% in 2001. More than half of the Basque speakers were younger than 30 and lived in the districts of Deusto, Begoña and Abando.\n\nAccording to the data from the 2016 census, the population older than 2 years old registered in the municipality of Bilbao who speaks fluently represents 29% of the total population, while those who can speak it with difficulty represent around 19.95% of the total. Finally, those who cannot speak or understand the language represent the remaining 51.06% of the census.\n<div style=\"clear:both;\">\n\nBilbao is a relevant transport hub for northern Spain. Bilbao is connected to three major motorways and a series of minor roads of national and provincial level. The city lies on two international roads, the European route E70 that follows the coast of the Bay of Biscay and the cities of Santander and Gijón to the west and with Eibar, San Sebastián and Bordeaux to the east. The European route E80 connects the city with inner Spain to the south, including Burgos and Salamanca and continuing to Lisbon, and Toulouse to the north. The AP-68 motorway (European road E-804) starts in the city, joining with Vitoria-Gasteiz, Logroño and ending in Zaragoza.\n\nThe city is connected with the regions of Cantabria, Asturias and Galicia via the A-8 motorway and with Durango, Eibar, San Sebastián and the French border via the AP-8 motorway, which is a toll road. The AP-68 toll motorway to the south is the main road connecting Bilbao with southern Spain and the Mediterranean coast, connecting in Miranda de Ebro with the A-1 to Madrid and in Zaragoza with the AP-2 to Barcelona.\n\nMinor roads passing through Bilbao or starting in the city itself include the national road N-634 which connects San Sebastián with Santiago de Compostela and runs parallel to the A-8 and AP-8 motorways. The regional road BI-631 connects Bilbao with Bermeo, while the BI-626 joins the city with Balmaseda. The city is circled by the BI-625 and N-637 roads, which form a half-ring to the east, and the N-634 and A-8 to the west.\n\nThe city's main arteries the Gran Vía de Don Diego López de Haro, which crosses the financial and business district of Abando and connecting it with the Casco Viejo to the east and the San Mamés area to the west. The Sabino Arana Avenue and Juan Antonio Zunzunegui Avenue provide a direct route between the central districts and the motorways while Autonomía Street joins the southern districts on an east-west direction. The city has 14 bridges connecting opposite sides of the Estuary of Bilbao and the Kadagua river, including the La Salve and Euskalduna bridges, as well a series of tunnels under the Mount Artxanda.\n\nBilbao is served by the Bilbao Airport (BIO), the busiest terminal in the Basque Country and in the entire Northern coast, with 3.9 million passengers in 2010. It is located north of the borough, between the municipalities of Loiu and Sondika. 15 airlines operate in the terminal, including Iberia, Lufthansa, and TAP Portugal. Top destinations include London, Frankfurt, Munich, Madrid, Paris, Malaga, and Amsterdam. It opened to the public in September 1948, with a regular flight to Madrid. On 19 November 2000, a new terminal building was opened, designed by Valencian architect Santiago Calatrava. In February 2009, a project was approved to expand the current building to double its capacity. Although originally expected to be completed by 2014, the financial crisis and the decrease of passenger traffic delayed it to at least 2019. No work has begun as of 2018.\n\nSome low-cost airlines, such as Ryanair, also use the Vitoria Airport (VIT) located in Foronda located 59 km (37 mi) south of the city.\n\nLong-distance rail lines connect Bilbao with Madrid and other destinations in northern Spain. The city has four railway stations: the Bilbao-Abando and Bilbao-La Concordia railway stations are owned by Adif and operated by the Spanish railways Renfe, whereas the Bilbao-Atxuri and Zazpikaleak/Casco Viejo stations are owned by the Basque railway network ETS and operated by the Basque railways.\n\nThe Bilbao-Abando station is the main railway station of the city, with Renfe running Iberian-gauge long-distance Alvia trains to Madrid and Barcelona, as well as Intercity services to Vigo with connections possible to A Coruña and Hendaye. During the summer there are special trains to Malaga. The city will be connected to the Basque Y high-speed train network around 2023, allowing for high speed AVE trains to operate between the Basque capitals and also to Madrid and other Spanish cities in the future. The arrival of the new high speed services will involve the creation of a completely new underground station that will replace the current infrastructure. The construction is expected to begin in 2020.\n\nBilbao-Concordia station is located in close vecinity to Bilbao-Abando, and hosts the narrow-gauge railway services ran by Renfe under the Renfe Feve brand. Renfe runs frequent regional trains to the cities of Santander and León. Euskotren Trena runs regular services to Bermeo from the Bilbao-Atxuri station, while in the Zazpikaleak/Casco Viejo station there are regional services to Durango, Eibar and San Sebastián.\n\nPublic transport by rail and bus is organised by the \"Bizkaiko Garraio Partzuergoa\" (Consortium of the Biscayan Transport). The consortium manages the Barik card, a form of electronic ticket valid across almost all public transport systems of the Bilbao metropolitan area and Biscay province, as well as some other selected services in other provinces of the Basque autonomous community.\n\nThe mass transit rail system is divided into different networks managed by separate operators. Metro Bilbao, established in 1995, operates two underground lines with some overground sections (Line 1 and Line 2). These two lines connect the metropolitan area following the estuary on both sides, starting in Etxebarri in the south all the way to Plentzia and Santurtzi by the coast. Line 1 was built following largely the same route as the Bilbao-Las Arenas railway, which was still active by the time the Metro system opened in 1995 and since has been replaced by it. The metro system stations were designed by Norman Foster. Line 3 of metro is operated by Euskotren Trena, which also operates the regional services to Durango and Eibar as well as a commuter rail line that connects the centre of Bilbao with Lezama and the Txorierri valley. This third line of metro was inaugurated on 8 April 2017 and is expected to be extended to the airport in the near future. Projects for a fourth and fifth line exist and are currently being studied.\n\nEuskotren also operates a tramway line under the brand Euskotren Tranbia. The line follows the estuary of Bilbao across the central districts of the city, starting in the Bilbao-Atxuri Station and connecting important areas like the Guggenheim museum and the San Mamés football stadium. The original tram network started operations in 1876 and gradually expanded across the city to finally shut down in the 1960s due to being largely replaced by urban buses. The new tram system was opened on 18 December 2002, almost forty years after the closing of the original system.\n\nRenfe operates four commuter-rail lines in a system separate from the metro. Three of them operate under the Cercanías brand and are collectively known as \"Cercanías Bilbao\", while a fourth line is operated by Renfe Feve. The three lines operated under the Cercanías name operate largely overground and travel larger distances than the metro system, reaching municipalities outside of the metropolitan area such as Muskiz or even outside of the Biscay province, like Amurrio. The three lines all start in the Bilbao-Abando railway station, whereas the line operated by Renfe Feve starts in the Bilbao-Concordia station.\n\nThe gaps in the railway service are covered by an extensive bus network. The urban bus system is operated under the brand Bilbobus and has 28 regular bus lines, 8 microbus lines and 8 night buses collectively known as \"Gautxori\" (night owl). The Bilbaobus network is limited to the city limits, and only a few lines extend beyond it. The BizkaiBus network fills this gap, with more than 100 lines, connecting the city with all other municipalities in the metropolitan area, as well as with most towns in Biscay and some in Álava.\n\nA Brittany Ferries ferry service links Santurtzi, near Bilbao, to Portsmouth (UK). MV Cap Finistère ferry departs from the port of Bilbao, north west of the town centre. A service operated by Acciona Trasmediterranea served the same route from 16 May 2006 until April 2007. P&O Ferries operated this route until its withdrawal on 28 September 2010 with a ship called the Pride of Bilbao.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Bilbao, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 35 min. 3% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 7 min, while 4% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 6.9 km, while 10% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nThe public healthcare system is served and managed by the Basque healthcare system (\"Osakidetza\"), which has a network of medican centres established across the city. The most relevant hospital of the city is the Basurto Hospital, located in the Basurto-Zorroza district. It was opened in 1908 after ten years of construction, and it was built due to the fast increase of population in the late 19th century. Its design was based on the Eppendorf Hospital of Hamburg, in (Germany), one of the most modern at the time. In 2008 the hospital was named the best hospital in customer support in Spain.\n\nHowever, the two largest hospitals that provide healthcare services to the inhabitants of the city are located outside of the city limits: the University Hospital of Gurutzeta/Cruces in neighboring Barakaldo and the Galdakao-Usansolo Hospital in Galdakao. Other minor public hospitals located in the city include the Santa Marina Hospital and the Hospital of Urduliz, located in the metropolitan area.\n\nThe headerquarters of \"Iberdrola\", a multinational electric utility company are located in Bilbao. The company was created in 1992 after the merging of \"Iberduero\" and \"Hidroeléctrica Española\" and it is in charge of production and distribution of electricity. There are two thermal power stations located in the city's surroundings, one in Santurtzi and the other in Zierbena. The electricity produced in both these stations is then transferred to the electrical substation of Güeñes by the company \"Red Eléctrica de España\", which is the company responsible of moving electricity from the production stations to the final consumers. There is a combined cycle power station in the municipality of Amorebieta called \"Bizkaia Energia\", whose energy is transferred to the substation of Gatika.\n\nThe supply of all oil-based fuels distributed in the whole metropolitan area (gasoline, diesel fuel and butane) are produced in the oil refinery owned by \"Petronor\" in the municipalities of Muskiz and Abanto Zierbena. \"Petronor\" is a large oil company founded in Bilbao in 1968 and it is currently comprised of two partners, Repsol (85.98%) and Kutxabank (14.02%).\n\nSupply of drinking water is managed by the \"Consorcio de Aguas Bilbao Bizkaia\" (Bilbao Bizkaia Water Consortium), a public entity wuth the responsibility of managing the water infrastructure and distribution to many Biscayan municipalities, Bilbao and its metropolitan area included. The supply of drinking water for the city comes from the Uribarri-Ganboa and Urrunaga reservoirs, which are fed by the river Zadorra.\n\nThe Basque Country has a bilingual education system, with students able to choose between four linguistic models: A, B, D, and X, which differ in the prevalence of Basque or Spanish as the spoken and written language used in classes. In Bilbao, there is a prevalence of model D (where Basque is the vehicle language and Spanish is taught as a subject) in Primary School, while Compulsory Secondary Education students favour model B (where some subjects are in Basque and other in Spanish). Finally, 67% of Baccalaureate students choose model A (in which Spanish is the vehicle language and Basque is a subject). English is the most widespread foreign language taught, being the option for 97% of pre-university students.\n\nTwo universities are seated in Bilbao. The older is the University of Deusto, founded by the Society of Jesus in 1886. It took its name from the then independent municipality of Deusto, annexed to Bilbao in 1925. It was the only higher education institute in the borough until the establishment in 1968 of the University of Bilbao, later to become the University of the Basque Country in 1980. This public university, which has a presence in the three provinces of the autonomous community, has its main Biscayan campus in the municipality of Leioa, although the Technical and Business faculties are based in Bilbao. Since 2014, Mondragon University has also a presence in the city through the innovation and entrepreneurial centre Bilbao Innovation Factory. In 2015, the offer of higher education in the city was expanded with the foundation of Dantzerti, the Higher School of Dramatic Arts and Dance of the Basque Country.\n\nAs in the rest of Spain, football is the most popular competitive sport, followed by basketball. In addition, Bilbao offers many outdoor activities owing to its location by the sea among hilly countryside. Hiking and rock climbing in the nearby mountains are very popular. Watersports, especially surfing, are practised on the beaches of nearby Sopelana and Mundaka.\n\nThe main football club is Athletic Club, commonly known as Athletic Bilbao in English. It plays at the new San Mamés stadium, which opened in 2013 and seats 53,332 spectators.\nAthletic Bilbao was one of the founding members of the Spanish football league, La Liga, and has played in the Primera División (First Division) ever since – winning it on eight occasions. Its red and white striped flag can be seen throughout the city. Athletic are noted for its \"Basque policy\", with only players born in or having clear connection to the Basque Country or Navarre being allowed to represent the club. Otherwise, the main basketball club is Bilbao Basket, which plays in the Spanish top division Liga ACB and their home venue is the Bilbao Arena.\n\n\nBilbao is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "530476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530476", "title": "Buchi Emecheta", "text": "Buchi Emecheta\n\nFlorence Onyebuchi \"Buchi\" Emecheta OBE (21 July 1944 – 25 January 2017) was a Nigerian-born British novelist, based in the UK from 1962, who also wrote plays and autobiography, as well as work for children. She was the author of more than 20 books, including \"Second-Class Citizen\" (1974), \"The Bride Price\" (1976), \"The Slave Girl\" (1977) and \"The Joys of Motherhood\" (1979).\n\nHer themes of child slavery, motherhood, female independence and freedom through education gained recognition from critics and honours. Emecheta once described her stories as \"stories of the world…[where]… women face the universal problems of poverty and oppression, and the longer they stay, no matter where they have come from originally, the more the problems become identical.\" She has been characterized as \"the first successful black woman novelist living in Britain after 1948\".\n\nEmecheta was born on 21 July 1944, in Lagos, Nigeria, to Igbo parents, Alice (Okwuekwuhe) Emecheta and Jeremy Nwabudinke. Her father was a railway worker and moulder. Due to the gender bias of the time, the young Buchi Emecheta was initially kept at home while her younger brother was sent to school; but after persuading her parents to consider the benefits of her education, she spent her early childhood at an all-girl's missionary school. When she was nine years old her father died (\"of complications brought on by a wound contracted in the swamps of Burma, where he had been conscripted to fight for Lord Louis Mountbatten and the remnants of the British Empire\"). A year later, Emecheta received a full scholarship to Methodist Girls' School, where she remained until the age of 16 when, in 1960, she married Sylvester Onwordi, a student to whom she had been engaged since she was 11 years old. Later that year, she gave birth to a daughter, and in 1961 their youger son was born.\n\nOnwordi immediately moved to London to attend university and Emecheta joined him there with their first two children in 1962. She gave birth to five children in six years, three daughters and two sons It was an unhappy and sometimes violent marriage (as chronicled in her autobiographical writings such as \"Second-Class Citizen\"). To keep her sanity, Emecheta wrote in her spare time. However, her husband was deeply suspicious of her writing, and he ultimately burned her first manuscript; she said that in \"The Bride Price\", eventually published in 1976. That would have been her first book but she had to rewrite it after it was destroyed: \"There were five years between the two versions.\" At the age of 22, pregnant with her fifth child, Emecheta left her husband. While working to support her children alone, she earned a B.Sc (Hons) degree in Sociology in 1972 from the University of London. In her 1984 autobiography, \"Head Above Water\" she wrote: \"As for my survival for the past twenty years in England, from when I was a little over twenty, dragging four cold and dripping babies with me and\npregnant with a fifth one—that is a miracle.\" She went on later to gain her PhD from the university in 1991.\n\nShe began writing about her experiences of Black British life in a regular column in the \"New Statesman\", and a collection of these pieces became her first published book in 1972, \"In the Ditch\". The semi-autobiographical novel chronicled the struggles of a main character named Adah, who is forced to live in a housing estate while working as a librarian to support her five children. Her second novel published two years later, \"Second-Class Citizen\" (Allison and Busby, 1974), also drew on Emecheta's own experiences, and both books were eventually published in one volume by Allison and Busby under the title \"Adah's Story\" (1983).\n\nFrom 1965 to 1969, Emecheta worked as a library officer for the British Museum in London. From 1969 to 1976 she was a youth worker and sociologist for the Inner London Education Authority, and from 1976 to 1978 she worked as a community worker in Camden, North London, meanwhile continuing to produce further novels with Allison and Busby – \"The Bride Price\" (1976), \"The Slave Girl\" (1977), \"The Joys of Motherhood\" (1979) and \"Destination Biafra\" (1982) – as well as the children's books \"Titch the Cat\" (1979) and \"Nowhere To Play\" (1980).\n\nFollowing her success as an author, Emecheta travelled widely as a visiting professor and lecturer. She visited several American universities, including Pennsylvania State University, Rutgers University, the University of California, Los Angeles, and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. From 1980 to 1981, she was senior resident fellow and visiting professor of English at the University of Calabar, Nigeria. From 1982 to 1983 Emecheta, together with her son Sylvester, ran the Ogwugwu Afor Publishing Company, publishing her own work under the imprint, beginning with \"Double Yoke\" (1982). Emecheta received an Arts Council of Great Britain bursary, 1982–83, and was one of \"Granta\"′s \"Best of the Young British Novelists\" in 1983. In 1982 she lectured at Yale University, and the University of London, She became a Fellow at the University of London in 1986.\n\nOver the years she worked with many cultural and literary organizations, including the Africa Centre, London, and with the Caine Prize for African Writing as a member of the Advisory Council.\n\nBuchi Emecheta suffered a stroke in 2010, and she died in London on 25 January 2017, aged 72.\n\nMost of her fictional works are focused on sexual discrimination and racial prejudice informed by her own experiences as both a single parent and a black woman living in United Kingdom.\n\nAmong honours received during her literary career, Emecheta won the Jock Campbell Award from the \"New Statesman\" in 1978 for her novel \"The Slave Girl\", and she was on \"Granta\" magazine's 1983 list of 20 \"Best of Young British Novelists\". She was a member of the British Home Secretary's Advisory Council on Race in 1979.\n\nIn September 2004, she appeared in the \"A Great Day in London\" photograph taken at the British Library, featuring 50 Black and Asian writers who have made major contributions to contemporary British literature. In 2005, she was made an OBE for services to literature.\n\nShe received an Honorary doctorate of literature from Farleigh Dickinson University in 1992.\n\nIn 2017, Emecheta's son Sylvester Onwordi announced the formation of The Buchi Emecheta Foundation - a charitable organisation promoting literary and educational projects in the UK and in Africa – which was launched in London on 3 February 2018 at the Brunei Gallery, SOAS, together with new editions of several of her books published by Onwordi through his Omenala Press. Among participants in the celebration – \"a gathering of writers, critics, artists, publishers, literature enthusiasts and culture activists from all over the world, including London and other parts of the U.K., France, Germany, U.S., Canada, Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, South Africa, and the Caribbean\" – were Leila Aboulela, Carole Boyce Davies, Margaret Busby, James Currey, Louisa Uchum Egbunike, Ernest Emenyonu, Akachi Ezeigbo, Kadija George, Mpalive Msiska, Grace Nichols, Alastair Niven, Irenosen Okojie, Veronique Tadjo, Marie Linton Umeh, Wangui wa Goro, Bibi Bakare-Yusuf and others.\n\nBuchi Emecheta featured at number 98 on a list of 100 women recognised by \"BBC History Magazine\" as having changed the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15810176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15810176", "title": "Burnet Cave", "text": "Burnet Cave\n\nBurnet Cave (also known as Rocky Arroyo Cave of Wetmore) is an important archaeological and paleontological site located in Eddy County, New Mexico, United States within the Guadalupe Mountains.\n\nThe cave has a southern exposure and is reported as being 21 m (70 feet) from the canyon floor. It has an elevation of 1402 m (4600 feet) according to Shultz and Howard (1935).\n\nExcavation began in Burnet Cave under returning student E. B. Howard who was working under Alden Mason's Southwestern Expeditions sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Anthropology and Archaeology. The first southwestern trip was in 1929 and Bill Burnet showed them this cave on one of the first trips west. The early field seasons at Burnet Cave were 1930, 1931, and 1932, and they went back again in 1936 and 1937 (Howard 1936:22, 1943b). Additional survey work in the Guadalupe Mountains was done in 1934 as well but no new early sites were found (Howard 1935).\n\nThe first Clovis point found in the modern era was excavated in situ at Burnet Cave five feet, seven inches below ground surface on the edge of a hearth with burnt bison and musk-ox bones in August 1931(UPenn Museum catalog # 31-47-36) (Boldurian and Cotter 1999:73). This find predates the Dent Site, Clovis, and all others pretending to be the first in situ Clovis find in the Americas. Howard brought this Clovis point to the 1931 Pecos Conference and showed it to several people, including Frank H H Roberts (discussed in Woodbury's Pecos history- 1983).\n\nUntil about 1950 Burnet Cave was considered to be among the handful of truly reliable intact Clovis sites but around that time it seems to have fallen out of favor because it was a cave, with an unusual Clovis faunule, that lacked the dramatic visions of the Mammoth-killing big game hunters myth then coming into vogue.\n\nBurnet Cave was the first multi-component Paleoindian site excavated, though no additional. The Clovis layer was four feet below the lowest layer containing Basketmaker material. The fine dirt was run through a ¼\" screen at the front of the cave, something quite unusual for archaeological fieldwork at this time (Boldurian and Cotter 1999:7). The poet Loren Eiseley was a member of Howard's crew and wrote scathingly about his experiences in the Guadalupe Mountains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9841996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9841996", "title": "Cholula (Mesoamerican site)", "text": "Cholula (Mesoamerican site)\n\nCholula () ( ) was an important city of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, dating back to at least the 2nd century BCE, with settlement as a village going back at least some thousand years earlier. The site of Cholula is just west of the modern city of Puebla and served as a trading outpost. Its immense pyramid is the largest such structure in the Americas, and the largest pyramid structure by volume in the world.\n\nIt is located in the Puebla-Tlaxcala Valley of the central Mexican highlands. It is surrounded to the west by the snow-covered peaks Popocatepetl and Iztaccihuatl, and Malinche to the north. The summer rainy season and the melted snow in winter provide a great environment for irrigation agriculture. There is also a confluence of several perennial streams with the Atoyac River that creates a wetland to the north and east of the urban center. This has resulted in abundant and excellent agriculture during the colonial period, which led to Cholula being known as the richest agricultural region in central Mexico. Maize is the major crop cultivated but they also harvested maguey, chiles, and cochineal for dye. The soil is rich in clay, which made pottery and brick-making an important part of their economy. Textiles and elaborate decorative capes were also popular.\n\nCholula’s strategical location in the center of the Mexican highlands gives it a prime place as a trade outpost. Here, trade routes connected the Gulf coast, the Valley of Mexico, Tehuacan Valley, and La Mixteca Baja through Izucar de Matamoros. From there, trade routes went to the Pacific coast, where the longer Pacific Coast communication and trade route existed.\n\nBecause of its location, Cholula served as the link center where primary trade routes and alliance corridors linked Post-Classic groups of Tolteca-Chichimeca kingdoms with southern Mesoamerica.\n\nTextiles were of extreme importance for Cholula’s economy. During the Postclassic period they were a common unit of tribute and exchange. Textiles were manufactured for local consumption and traded extensively by different merchants that frequented the city. Textile production accounts are provided by ethnohistorical and archaeological sources. Spanish writings from Colonial times have noted their excellence in dying techniques and ability to dye wool threads in diverse colors to produce a variety of textiles. Some of the materials they used were cotton, which was probably imported from the Gulf Coast or Southern Puebla, and maguey, feathers, rabbit fur, tree silk, milkweed, and human hair that were all locally found. Artifacts such as spindle whorls found at different Cholula site loci provide evidence for the extensive production of textiles in the site. These are rare from the Formative and the Classic periods but become more prevalent in the Postclassic. Only unbaked-clay whorls may have been used during the earlier periods but these are not preserved in the archaeological record. The high concentration of spindle whorls recovered from Cholula in comparison to other Mesoamerican sites attests to the important role they played in their economy.\n\nCholula grew from a very small village to a regional center between CE 600 and 700 ce. During this period, Cholula was a major center contemporaneous with Teotihuacan and seems to have avoided, at least partially, that city's fate of violent destruction at the end of the Mesoamerican Classic period.\n\nThe earliest occupation dates back to the Early Formative period. In the 1970s, Mountjoy discovered a waterlogged deposit dating to the latte Middle Formative period near the ancient lake shore. The earliest construction evidence at Cholula dates to the Late Formative period. Initial stages of the Great Pyramid probably date to the Terminal Formative Period and show stylistic resemblance to early Teotihuacan. Estimates suggest that during the Formative period the site extended for about 2 square kilometers, with a population of five to ten thousand.\n\nThe Classical period is known for the construction of the Great Pyramid. At least stages 3 and 10 were built during this period and many other mounds of the urban zone, like the Cerro Cocoyo, Edificio Rojo, San Miguelito and the Cerro Guadalupe, were also constructed at this point in time. The central ceremonial precinct included the Great Pyramid, a big plaza to the west, and the Cerro Cocoyo as the west most pyramid of the plaza group. Classical period Cholula most likely covered around 5 square kilometers, and had an estimated population of fifteen to twenty thousand individuals.\n\nDuring the Early Postclassic there might have been an ethnic change, suggested by the influx of Gulf Coast motifs and by the burial at the pyramid of an individual with Maya-style cranial deformation and inlaid teeth.\n\nCholula reached its maximum size and population during the Postclassic period. It covered 10 square kilometers and had a population of thirty to fifty thousand. During this period, ethnic changes divide the historical sequence into two phases: the Tlachihualtepetl and Cholollan phases. The Tlachihualtepetl phase (CE 700–1200) is named after the city of the Great Pyramid as it was recorded in the \"Historia Tolteca-Chichimeca\" ethnohistoric source. During this phase according to the ethnohistoric accounts, Cholula was taken over by the Gulf Coast group known as the Olmec-Xicallanca, who made it their capital. From there, they controlled the high plateau of Puebla and Tlaxcala. Under this group, the potters of Cholula began to develop the fine polychrome wares that were to become the most popular vessels in all of ancient Mexico.\n\nIn CE 1200, ethnic Tolteca-Chichimeca conquered Cholula. At this point, the Patio of the Altars was destroyed and the ceremonial center (with the “new” Pyramid of Quetzalcoatl) was moved to the present \"zócalo\" (main plaza) of Cholula. Polycrome pottery from this phase used distinctive design configurations but was derived from the earlier styles. The “laca” pottery also dates to this period.\n\nDuring this entire period, Cholula remained a regional center of importance, enough so that, at the time of the fall of the Aztec empire, Aztec princes were still formally anointed by a Cholulan priest.\nAt the time of the arrival of Hernán Cortés, Cholula was second only to the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan (modern Mexico City) as the largest city in central Mexico, possibly with a population of up to 100,000 people. In addition to the great temple of Quetzalcoatl and various palaces, the city had 365 temples.\n\nIn 1519, when the warriors and nobles gathered to meet him, Cortés had them massacred at the central plaza and partially burned the city, either in a premeditated effort to instil fear in the Aztecs of Tenochtitlan or, as he later claimed, to make an example of the Cholulans for planning to massacre him and his soldiers when they left the city.\n\nA few years later, Cortés vowed that the city would be rebuilt with a Christian church to replace each of the old pagan temples; fewer than 50 new churches were actually built, but the Spanish colonial churches are unusually numerous for a city of its size. There is a common saying in Cholula that there is a church for every day of the year.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial period, Cholula was overtaken in importance by the nearby newly-founded Spanish city of Puebla.\n\nThe Great Pyramid of Cholula, Tlachihualtepetl, is the largest prehispanic structure in the world in terms of volume. It is the result of four successive superpositions, the first two from the Classic period. Stage one measured about on the side and was high. The top platform measured about square and featured wall remains of the temple precinct.\n\nThe earliest pyramid exhibits the talud-tablero motif style and is painted with insects resembling a Teotihuacan style. When the pyramid was originally built in 300 BCE, there were insects painted in black, red, and yellow on it. The second pyramid, which was built over the first one, no longer resembles Teotihuacan architectural style. Instead it is a pyramid with stairs covering all four sides, so the top could be approached from every direction. It measures 590 ft (180 m) on a side. The exposed slopes of the pyramid are earth- and adobe-filled and represent the last construction phase between CE 750 and 950. During the Early Postclassic period, the pyramid was expanded to its final form. It covered 16 hectares (400 meters on the side) and reached a height of 66 meters. The orientation of the Great Pyramid, and the whole site’s urban grid, is about 26 degrees north of west, a deviation from Teotihuacan’s orientation. This orientation is aligned with the summer solstice, and it may relate to the worship of a solar deity related to the Mixtec 7 Flower, or Aztec Tonacatecuhtli.\n\nToday Cholula is still one of the most important pilgrimage destinations in Mexico. Around 350,000 people attend the annual festival centered at the top of the Great Pyramid. The Great Pyramid of Cholula is still used because the Spanish built a church atop it, a symbol of the religious conquest of Mexico. That makes it not just the largest pyramid in the world but also the oldest continuously occupied building in North America. In the 20th century, the temple was tunnelled by archaeologists. Four major and nine minor construction stages were revealed. These tunnels remain open to visitors and are stable because of the adobe bricks that were used to build the pyramid.\n\nThe origins of the Mixteca-Puebla stylistic tradition appeared and reflected the Gulf Coast influences. Polychrome pottery was already common by CE 1000, and also resembles Gulf Coast styles.\n\nThe mural known as \"The Drunkards\" is a 165 ft (50 m) long polychrome mural with life size human figures. The scene represented is one of drinking and inebriation but the liquid being ingested could have been derived from hallucinogenic mushrooms of ancient Mexico or peyote, rather than alcohol.\n\nFigurines in Cholula are prominent. On an excavation located at the southwestern extreme of the Universidad de las Américas in Cholula one of the features was a 3.68-m-deep Prehispanic water well that kept Postclassic ceramics and figurines, which accounted for most of the artifacts found. There were 110 figurines and no molds were found; although some molds have been found by other archaeologists in the area. Together with the figurines was a large amount of re-constructible broken figurines and others that were over fired or even blackened and burned. Also, the presence of scoria, pigments, polishing tools, balls of prepared clay, and vitrified abode blocks suggest that these materials may have been waste products from a workshop in the neighborhood.\n\nThe figurines usually represent deities like in many other Mesoamerican sites, but their shape is unique. They are façades of about 19 cm high. The front of the figurines are a fairly complex face and headdress set upon a plain trapezoidal pedestal. The back is very roughly finished and has a loop handle that has been seen to be either horizontal, vertical or diagonal to the face, although horizontal handles are the most common ones. Some of them are plain but others have traces of a thin coat of stucco painted in yellow, red, back, brown, green, and pink.\n\nIn Cholula figurines mostly represent the god Tlaloc. There have been at least six molds found that were used to produce Tlaloc figurines in the collection from the campus of the Universidad de las Américas and each one exhibits differences in size, proportion, and the detailed elements of its portrait.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40965300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40965300", "title": "Concatenation theory", "text": "Concatenation theory\n\nConcatenation theory, also called string theory, character-string theory, or theoretical syntax, studies character strings over finite alphabets of characters, signs, symbols, or marks. String theory is foundational for formal linguistics, computer science, logic, and metamathematics especially proof theory. A generative grammar can be seen as a recursive definition in string theory.\n\nThe most basic operation on strings is concatenation; connect two strings to form a longer string whose length is the sum of the lengths of those two strings. ABCDE is the concatenation of AB with CDE, in symbols ABCDE = AB ^ CDE. Strings, and concatenation of strings can be treated as an algebraic system with some properties resembling those of the addition of integers; in modern mathematics, this system is called a free monoid.\n\nIn 1956 Alonzo Church wrote: \"Like any branch of mathematics, theoretical syntax may, and ultimately must, be studied by the axiomatic method\". Church was evidently unaware that string theory already had two axiomatizations from the 1930s: one by and one by Alfred Tarski. Coincidentally, the first English presentation of Tarski’s 1933 axiomatic foundations of string theory appeared in 1956 – the same year that Church called for such axiomatizations. As Tarski himself noted using other terminology, serious difficulties arise if strings are construed as tokens rather than types in the sense of Pierce's type-token distinction, not to be confused with similar distinctions underlying other type-token distinctions.\n"}
{"id": "1220420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220420", "title": "Diamond Comics", "text": "Diamond Comics\n\nDiamond Comics Pvt. Ltd. is a comic book distributor and publisher in India.\n\nDiamond Comics is responsible for popular Indian comics characters such as Chacha Chaudhary. Diamond Comics has been publishing many foreign characters comics such as Phantom, Superman, Batman, Spider-Man, and James Bond in Hindi in India. Diamond Comics is the publisher of characters of India's famous cartoonist; Pran Kumar Sharma, better known as Pran.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2009, Diamond Comics, the owner of characters Chacha Chowdhary, Sabu and Pinki teamed up with License India, to bring them to silver screen as animation characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3194231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3194231", "title": "Doctor Who: Children in Need", "text": "Doctor Who: Children in Need\n\n\"\"Doctor Who\": Children in Need\", also known as \"Born Again\", is a 7-minute mini-episode of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". It was broadcast on BBC One as part of the 2005 appeal for the children's charity \"Children in Need\" on 18 November 2005.\n\nFollowing on directly from the end of \"The Parting of the Ways\", the newly regenerated Tenth Doctor sets the TARDIS coordinates for the planet Barcelona (Tuesday, 6 p.m., October 5006)—where his predecessor had been planning to take her just before he regenerated—while Rose watches him suspiciously. He delightedly examines his new appearance (noting he has a slight weakness in the dorsal tubercle, a full head of hair, sideburns, is slimmer, and has a mole between his shoulder blades), while asking her what she thinks of the way he looks.\n\nRose, confused and frightened, asks him who he is. When he tells her he is the Doctor, she does not believe him. Confused as to what she has just seen, she theorises that this stranger has replaced the Doctor by means of teleportation, or perhaps he is a Slitheen. She demands that he bring the Doctor back, and the Doctor tries to reassure her that it \"is\" him, telling her how they first met in the cellar at Henrik's, and the first word he ever said to her: \"Run!\"\n\nRose starts to believe him, and the Doctor leaps around the console happily, reminiscing about their other adventures, such as when they once had to hop for their lives. However, she is still unsettled, and asks him if he can change back to his previous self. A deflated Doctor replies that he cannot, and asks her if she wants to leave. When Rose hesitates in her answer, he resets the ship's coordinates for her council estate on Christmas Eve, offering her the choice to stay with her mother, Jackie Tyler, or continue her travels with him.\n\nSuddenly, the Doctor suffers a form of seizure, expelling glowing energy from his mouth, and the TARDIS shudders as if in sympathetic response. The Doctor tells Rose the regeneration is going wrong and starts to act maniacally, throwing switches on the TARDIS console and ranting about increasing speed as the sounds of the Cloister Bell start ringing through the console room. As Rose hangs on to the console for dear life, the TARDIS heads for a crash landing on Christmas Eve...\n\nThe mini-episode was not broadcast with a title, but throughout the Children in Need appeal a preview banner for the segment called it \"The New Doctor\". Russell T Davies joked in a \"Doctor Who Magazine\" article that it was called \"Pudsey Cutaway\"—after the Children in Need teddy-bear mascot and modifying \"Dalek Cutaway\", an alternative title for \"Mission to the Unknown\" (something of a one-off special itself, from the programme's earliest black-and-white era). The 2006 \"Doctor Who Magazine\" special \"Series Two Companion\" revealed that the title used on production papers was \"Doctor Who: Children in Need\". The 2009 tie-in book \"Doctor Who: Companions And Allies\" attributes without source the title \"Born Again\". However, DWM's review of the book indicates this to have been an error and as of 2011 \"Companions and Allies\" remains the only officially licensed publication to use this title.\n\nOther specially made episodes of \"Doctor Who\" include \"Dimensions in Time\" (also for Children in Need) and \"Doctor Who and the Curse of Fatal Death\" (for Comic Relief), neither of which are usually considered canonical. The 20th-anniversary special, \"The Five Doctors\" (1983), was broadcast as part of that year's Children in Need night, but \"is\" considered canonical; the 2007 Children in Need mini-episode \"Time Crash\" is also considered canonical, as is the two-part mini-episode \"Space\" and \"Time\" produced for the 2011 edition of Comic Relief.\n\nThe mini-episode was written and recorded separately from both \"The Parting of the Ways\" and \"The Christmas Invasion\" and recorded after the latter had completed shooting. \"The Christmas Invasion\" does not reprise any of this episode (although the Doctor does mention having a mole between his shoulder blades in both the mini-episode and \"The Christmas Invasion\"). The online feed of the mini-episode ended with several pre-recorded inserts of Tennant and Piper appealing for donations to Children in Need. The appeals in which they both appear were light-hearted, with Piper claiming to be Tennant and vice versa in the first, and in the second the pair introducing themselves as Letitia Dean and Nicholas Lyndhurst. Russell T Davies stated in the book \"The Inside Story\" that he brokered an agreement with the BBC that there would be \"... no banners along the bottom of the screen thanking people for sitting in bathtubs full of baked beans, and no Pudsey on the TARDIS console!\"\n\nThe mini-episode ended with the text, \"Doctor Who will return in THE CHRISTMAS INVASION\", an announcement that also followed \"The Parting of the Ways\". It had no end credits, and so Tennant was neither listed as \"Doctor Who\" (as he had been in the credits of \"The Parting of the Ways\") nor as \"The Doctor\" (as he was in \"The Christmas Invasion\").\nThis special was never broadcast in Canada by the CBC which, at the time, were co-producers of the second series.\n\nAccording to the Broadcasters Audience Research Board (BARB), the overnight ratings suggest that 10.7 million viewers were tuned into BBC One from 9.00pm to 9.15pm (a 45.1% audience share), the slot in which the mini-episode was broadcast in most regions. This represented the highest ratings that Children in Need had received in eight years.\n\nThe mini-episode was included on the Series 2 DVD box set. The version of the special on the Region 2 DVD is slightly different: the opening montage to recap \"The Parting of the Ways\" has been changed, the Cloister Bell sound is missing, and there are variations in the incidental music throughout (including a rare use of part of the main theme as incidental, when the TARDIS changes course to Earth). This was later revealed to have been a 'rough-cut' version that was used by mistake and should never have been released, and the later Region 1 release features the broadcast version. The Region 1 DVD release marked the first time the special was officially seen in North America as it was never broadcast by either the CBC nor Sci-Fy Channel.\n\nThe storyline from this mini-episode was included in the novelisation of \"The Christmas Invasion.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9026920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9026920", "title": "Dying declaration", "text": "Dying declaration\n\nIn the law of evidence, a dying declaration is testimony that would normally be barred as hearsay but may in common law nonetheless be admitted as evidence in criminal law trials because it constituted the last words of a dying person. The rationale, accurate or not, is that someone who is dying or believes death to be imminent would have less incentive to fabricate testimony, and as such, the hearsay statement carries with it some reliability.\n\nIn medieval English courts, the principle originated of \"Nemo moriturus praesumitur mentiri\" — \"no-one on the point of death should be presumed to be lying\". An incident in which a dying declaration was admitted as evidence has been found in a 1202 case.\n\nIn common law, a \"dying declaration\" must have been a statement made by a deceased person who would otherwise have been a credible witness to their own death by murder or manslaughter, and was of \"settled hopeless expectation of death\".\n\nThe admissibility of hearsay evidence in criminal proceedings has been governed by the Criminal Justice Act 2003 which effectively replaced the common law regime and abolished all common law hearsay exceptions (except those preserved by s.118) including the dying declaration exception. An original statement made by a dead person may now be admissible under the statutory \"unavailability\" exception (ss.114 & 116) subject to the courts' judicial discretion (preserved by s.126) to exclude unrealiable evidence (i.e. the prejudicial value outweighs the probative value).\n\nUnder the Federal Rules of Evidence, a dying declaration is admissible if the proponent of the statement can establish all of the following:\n\nOther general rules of admissibility also apply, such as the requirement that the declaration must be based on the declarant's actual knowledge.\n\nThe statement must relate to the circumstances or the cause of the declarant's \"own\" impending death. For example, in the dying declaration of Clifton Chambers in 1988, he stated that ten years earlier, he had helped his son bury a man whom the son had killed by accident. The statement was sufficient cause to justify a warrant for a search on the son's property, and the man's body was indeed found. However, there was no physical evidence of a crime, and since Chambers was not the victim, his dying declaration was not admissible as evidence, and the son was never brought to trial.\n\nThe first use of the dying declaration exception in American law was in the 1770 murder trial of the British soldiers responsible for the Boston Massacre. One of the victims, Patrick Carr, told his doctor before he died that the soldiers had been provoked. The doctor's testimony helped defense attorney John Adams to secure acquittals for some of the defendants and reduced charges for the rest.\n\nIf the defendant is convicted of homicide but the reliability of the dying declaration is in question, there is grounds for an appeal.\n\nThe future of the dying declaration doctrine in light of Supreme Court opinions such as \"Crawford v. Washington\" (2004) is unclear (\"Crawford\" was decided under the constitution's Confrontation Clause, not the common law). Opinions such as \"Giles v. California\" (2008) discuss the matter (although the statements in \"Giles\" were not a dying declaration), but Justice Ginsburg notes in her dissent to \"Michigan v. Bryant\" (2011) that the court has not addressed whether the dying declaration exception is valid after the confrontation clause cases.\n\nSince the nineteenth century, critics have questioned the credibility of dying declarations. In a state court case, the Wisconsin Supreme Court considered the issue of a dying declaration. The defense pointed out that “[t]his kind of evidence is not regarded with favor.” The defense argued that several factors could undermine the reliability of dying declarations.\n\nDying declarations are allowed as evidence in Indian courts if the dying person is conscious of his or her danger, he or she has given up hopes of recovery, the death of the dying person is the subject of the charge and of the dying declaration, and if the dying person was capable of a religious sense of accountability to his or her Maker.\n\n"}
{"id": "34215657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34215657", "title": "Eccentric flint", "text": "Eccentric flint\n\nAn eccentric flint is an elite chipped artifact of an often irregular ('eccentric') shape produced by the Classic Maya civilization of ancient Mesoamerica. Although generally referred to as \"flints\", they were typically fashioned from chert, chalcedony and obsidian.\n\nEccentric flints were first categorised by western archaeologists in Belize in the first half of the 20th century, when they were identified as ceremonial in nature. The objects are generally found in the eastern portion of the central Maya area, in the Petén Department of Guatemala and in neighbouring Belize, with few in the west and the Yucatán Peninsula. Very few have been recovered from the Guatemalan Highlands and it is unlikely they were ever manufactured there. Small obsidian eccentrics have been found at the great metropolis of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico.\n\nEccentric flints are among the finest lithic artifacts produced by the ancient Maya. They were technically very challenging to produce, requiring considerable skill on the part of the artisan. Large obsidian eccentrics can measure over in length. Their actual form varies considerably but they generally depict human, animal and geometric forms associated with Maya religion.\n\nMost examples of eccentric flints have been recovered from caches interred under Maya monuments and buildings. Thus, a cache under the altar of Copan's stela M, at the foot of the Hieroglyphic Stairway, rendered three identical eccentric flints, each shaped like a human figure extending into a tang and evincing six human head outgrowths. Nine eccentric flints with human figures found in an early Copan temple room (temple 16, Rosalila phase), and originally wrapped in a deep blue cloth, show similar tangs. The presence of these tangs suggests that the examples concerned may originally have been set into a shaft or handle, possibly as the head of a sceptre, or as the blade of an axe. Some flint eccentrics were unsuitable for wearing or carrying and they may have been sculpted specifically to be buried as an offering.\n\nEccentric flints show a great variety of forms, such as crescents, crosses, snakes, and scorpions. The largest and most elaborate ones display multiple human heads, with minor heads sometimes branching off from larger ones (see fig. 1). The human face is youthful and crafted as a simple outline, with emphasis on the sloping forehead and the lips. An element more or less resembling a smoking torch, and symbolizing lightning, is often set in the forehead (see fig. 2). For this reason, these human faces are commonly regarded as transformations of the lightning deity, god K (\"K'awiil\"). More specifically, they appear to represent the Tonsured Maize God as a lightning deity, perhaps in a protective role. Eccentric flints representing the lightning deity himself are also found, though with less frequency, while some eccentric flints combine both human and God K faces. The most famous eccentric flint is perhaps the one interpreted by Linda Schele and her co-authors as a 'crocodile canoe' transporting the anthropomorphic soul of the dead as its 'passenger'.\n\nAs a background to the eccentric flints showing deities associated with lightning, it is noteworthy that among the traditional Maya and in Mesoamerica generally, obsidian is considered \"fossilized lightning\", sometimes believed to have split off from the lightning deities' axes. The lightning deity warrants agricultural fertility. As to the 'lightnings' with a human aspect, certain powerful individuals are believed to possess lightning energies, and to have the lightning bolt for a transformation.\n"}
{"id": "4701394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4701394", "title": "Ek' Balam", "text": "Ek' Balam\n\nEk' Balam is a Yucatec-Maya archaeological site within the municipality of Temozón, Yucatán, Mexico. It lies in the Northern Maya lowlands, north of Valladolid and northeast of Chichen Itza. From the Preclassic until the Postclassic period, it was the seat of a Mayan kingdom.\n\nThe site is noted for the preservation of the plaster on the tomb of Ukit Kan Lek Tok', a king buried in the side of the largest pyramid.\n\nEk' Balam was occupied from the Middle Preclassic through the Postclassic, although it ceased to thrive as a major city past the Late Classic. Beginning in the Late Preclassic, the population grew and the city expanded throughout the following periods. It eventually became the capital of the polity that controlled the region around the beginning of the Common Era.\n\nAt its height from 770 to 840 CE, Ek' Balam provides a rich resource of information for understanding northern Classic cities, due to the poor preservation of many other notable northern Maya sites (e.g. Coba, Izamal, and Edzna). It was during this height that the Late Yumcab ceramic complex (750-1050/1100 CE) dominated the architecture and pottery of Ek’ Balam.\nThe population decreased dramatically, down to 10% of its highest, during the Postclassic period as Ek’ Balam was slowly becoming vacant. There are several theories to why it was eventually abandoned and to the degree of haste at which it was abandoned (\"see\": Defensive Walls).\n\nEk Balam is mentioned in a late-sixteenth-century \"Relación Geográfica\", an official inquiry held by the colonial government among local Spanish landowners. It is reported to have belonged to a kingdom called 'Talol', founded by an Ek' Balam, or Coch Cal Balam, who had come from the East. Later, the region was dominated by the aristocratic Cupul family.\n\nThere are 45 structures, including:\n\nThe layout of the site is surrounded by two concentric walls which served as defense against attack. There were many smaller walls that snaked through the city as well. The inner wall encompasses an area of . The carved stone of the inner wall, tall and wide, is covered in plaster; the outer wall serves purely for defense, as it is less substantial and less decorative. These walls were the largest in the Late Classic Yucatan, and seem to have a symbolic meaning of protection and military strength. Theories claiming a hasty desertion of the city are backed up by the fourth wall inside the city, which “bisects the Great Plaza, and, at less than a meter wide and made of poorly constructed rubble, it was clearly built as a last ditch effort at protection” against invading attackers.\n\nOnly the center of Ek’ Balam has been excavated. Large, raised platforms line the interior wall, surrounding internal plazas. Sacbé roads stem off of the center in the four cardinal directions, an architectural allusion to the idea of a “four-part cosmos”. These roads are often understood to have been sacred. The buildings were designed in the northern Petén architectural style, as were the surrounding large cities of the time, although it has its dissimilarities with them as well.\n\nThe Acropolis houses the tomb of king \"Ukit Kan Le'k Tok\"', who ruled from 770 (the starting year of the “height” of this city) to 797 or 802 CE.\n\nIn rooms of the Acropolis, wall paintings consisting of texts have been found, amongst these the 'Mural of the 96 Glyphs', a masterwork of calligraphy comparable to the 'Tablet of the 96 Glyphs' from Palenque. Another wall painting of the Acropolis features a mythological scene with a hunted deer, which has been interpreted as the origin of death. A series of vault capstones depict the lightning deity, a specific decoration also known from other Yucatec sites.\n\nOn a clear day, from the top of the Acrópolis, temples of Cobá and Chichén Itzá can be seen on the horizon.\n\nEk’ Balam was rediscovered and explored first by influential archaeologist Désiré Charnay in the late 1800s but extensive excavation did not take place until a century later. Bill Ringle and George Bey III mapped the site in the late 1980s, and continued to do extensive research into the 1990s, their works being cited by many others who later write on the site. Subsequently, the Acropolis was excavated by Leticia Vargas de la Peña and Víctor Castillo Borges from the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia. Alfonso García-Gallo Lacadena deciphered the most important set of North Maya Maya hieroglyphic texts and all historical references of Ek Balam are based on his intellectual work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2625672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2625672", "title": "Extensional context", "text": "Extensional context\n\nIn philosophy of language, a context in which a sub-sentential expression \"e\" appears is called extensional if and only if \"e\" can be replaced by an expression with the same extension and necessarily preserve truth-value. The extension of a term is the set of objects that that term denotes.\n\nTake the case of Clark Kent, who is secretly Superman. Suppose that Lois Lane fell out of a window and Superman caught her. Thus the statement, \"Clark Kent caught Lois Lane,\" is true because it has an extensional context. The names \"Superman\" and \"Clark Kent\" have the same extension, which is to say that they both refer to the same person, i.e., that superhero who is vulnerable to kryptonite. Anybody that Superman caught, Clark Kent caught.\n\nIn opposition to extensional contexts are intensional contexts, where synonymous terms cannot be substituted in without potentially compromising the truth-value. Suppose that Lois Lane believes that Clark Kent will investigate a news story with her. The statement, \"Lois Lane believes that Superman will investigate a news story with her,\" is false, even though Superman is Clark Kent. This is because 'believes' is typically an intensional context.\n\n"}
{"id": "20992394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20992394", "title": "False designation of origin", "text": "False designation of origin\n\nIn consumer law, false designation of origin occurs when the manufacturer or seller lies about the country of origin or maker of its products. For example, if a manufacturer makes a product and then claims that it is a high end name brand product.\n\nIn U.S. law, false designation of origin is defined by .\n"}
{"id": "1076948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1076948", "title": "Geographical distribution of German speakers", "text": "Geographical distribution of German speakers\n\nThis article details the geographical distribution of speakers of the German language, regardless of the legislative status within the countries where it is spoken. In addition to the German-speaking area () in Europe, German-speaking minorities are present in many countries and on all six inhabited continents.\n\nMostly depending on the inclusion or exclusion of certain varieties with a disputed status as separate languages (e.g., Low German/Plautdietsch), it is estimated that approximately 90–95 million people speak German as a first language, 10-25 million as a second language, and 75–100 million as a foreign language. This would imply approximately 175-220 million German speakers worldwide.\n\nNamibia used to be a colony of the German Empire from 1884 to 1919. Mostly originating from German settlers who immigrated during this time, 25,000 to 30,000 people still speak German as a native tongue today. German, along with English and Afrikaans used to be a co-official language of Namibia from 1984 until its independence from South Africa in 1990. At this point, the Namibian government perceived Afrikaans and German as symbols for Apartheid and colonialism, and decided for English to be the sole official language, claiming that it was a \"neutral\" language as virtually no English native speakers existed in Namibia at that time. German, Afrikaans and several indigenous languages became \"national languages\" by law, identifying them as cultural heritages of the nation and ensuring the state to acknowledge and support their presence in the country. Today, German is used in a wide variety of spheres, especially business and tourism, as well as churches (most notably the German-speaking Evangelical Lutheran Church in Namibia (GELK)), schools (e.g. the Deutsche Höhere Privatschule Windhoek), literature (German-Namibian authors include ), radio (the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation produces radio programs in German), and music (e.g. artist EES). The Allgemeine Zeitung is also one of the three biggest newspapers in Namibia and the only German-language daily in Africa.\n\nMostly originating from different waves of immigration during the 19th and 20th centuries, an estimated 12,000 people speak German or a German variety as a first language in South Africa. Germans settled quite extensively in South Africa, with many Calvinists immigrating from Northern Europe. Later on, more Germans settled in the KwaZulu-Natal and elsewhere. Here, one of the largest communities are the speakers of \"Nataler Deutsch\", a variety of Low German, who are concentrated in and around Wartburg. German is slowly disappearing elsewhere, but a number of communities still have a large number of speakers and some even have German language schools. Furthermore, German was often a language taught as a foreign language in White South African schools during the Apartheid years (1948-1994). Today, the South African constitution identifies German as a \"commonly used\" language and the Pan South African Language Board is obligated to promote and ensure respect for it.\n\nAustralia has an estimated population of around 75,600 German speakers. Australians of German ancestry constitute the fourth largest ethnic group in Australia, numbering around 811,540. German immigrants played a significant role in settling the states of South Australia and Queensland. Barossa German, a dialect of German, was once common in and around the German-settled Barossa Valley in South Australia. However, the German language was actively suppressed by Australian governments during World War I and World War II, resulting in a sharp decline in the use of German in Australia. German Australians are today overwhelmingly English speaking, with the German language as a home language in heavy decline.\n\nThe German language is spoken in a number of countries and territories in Europe, where it is used both as an official language and as a minority language in various countries. To cover this language area, they are often referred to as the German-speaking countries, the German-speaking area (), or equivalently German-speaking Europe (non-European German-speaking communities are not commonly included in the concept).\n\nGerman is the main language of approximately 95 to 100 million people in Europe, or 13.3% of all Europeans, being the second most spoken native language in Europe after Russian (with 144 million speakers), above French (with 66.5 million) and English (with 64.2 million).\n\nThe European countries with German-speaking majorities are Germany (95%, 78.3 million), Austria (89%, 7.4 million) and Switzerland (65%, 4.6 million), also known as \"D-A-CH\" countries. Other European countries and regions with a German-speaking majority include Liechtenstein (0.03 million), the Italian autonomous region of South-Tyrol (0.5 million) and the German-speaking Community of Belgium with around 70.000 native speakers.\n\nSince 2004, there is an annual informal meeting of the heads of state of German-speaking countries including the Presidents of Germany, Austria and Switzerland and the Hereditary Prince of Liechtenstein. Since 2014 the King of Belgium and the Grand Duke of Luxembourg have also been taking part.\n\nD-A-CH or DACH is an acronym used to represent the dominant states of the German language \"Sprachraum\". It is based on the international vehicle registration codes for:\n\n\n\"Dach\" is also the German word for \"roof\", and is used in linguistics in the term Dachsprache, which standard German arguably is in relation to some outlying dialects of German, especially in Switzerland, France, Luxembourg and Austria.\n\nThe term is sometimes extended to D-A-CH-Li, DACHL or DACH+ to include Liechtenstein. Another version is DACHS (with \"Dachs\" meaning \"Badger\" in German) with the inclusion of the German-speaking region of South Tyrol in Italy.\n\nDACH is also the name of an Interreg IIIA project, which focuses on crossborder cooperation in planning.\n\nIn the Early Modern period, German varieties were a \"lingua franca\" of Central, Eastern and Northern Europe (Hanseatic League).\n\nToday, German, together with French, is a common second foreign language in the western world, as English is well established as a first foreign language. German ranks second (after English) among the best known foreign languages in the EU (on par with French) as well as in Russia. In terms of student numbers across all levels of education, German ranks third in the EU (after English and French) as well as in the United States (after Spanish and French). In 2015, approximately 15.4 million people were in the process of learning German across all levels of education worldwide. As this number remained relatively stable since 2005 (± 1 million), roughly 75–100 million people able to communicate in German as foreign language can be inferred assuming an average course duration of three years and other estimated parameters. According to a 2012 survey, ca. 47 million people within the EU (i.e., up to two thirds of the 75-100 million worldwide) claimed to have sufficient German skills to have a conversation. Within the EU, and not counting countries where it is a (co-)official language, German as a foreign language is most widely taught in Eastern and Northern Europe, namely the Czech Republic, Croatia, Denmark, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and Poland.\n\nGerman as a foreign language is promoted by the Goethe Institute, which works to promote German language and culture worldwide. In association with the Goethe Institute, the German foreign broadcasting service, Deutsche Welle, offers a range of online German courses and worldwide television as well as radio broadcasts produced with non-native German speakers in mind.\nAt least one million German speakers live in Latin America. There are German speaking minorities in almost every Latin American country, including Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela. In the eighteenth century only isolated or small groups of German emigrants left for Latin America. However this pattern was reversed at the start of the last century as a tidal wave of German emigration began. German emigration to the Americas totalled 200,000 people during the eighteenth century. During the 1880s, during the wave of mass emigration, this figure was reached annually. The \"Handbuch des Deutschtums im Ausland\" (\"The Germans Abroad Handbook\") from 1906 puts a figure of 11 million people in North and South America with a knowledge of the German language, of which 9 million were in the US. Although the US was the focal point for emigration in the 19th century, emigration to Latin America was also significant for differing economic and political reasons.\n\nThe majority of German emigrants to Latin America went especially to Brazil but also to: Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, Paraguay, Guatemala, and Costa Rica.\n\nStarting in 1818, when King D. João VI brought the first German and Swiss immigrants to Brazil, German immigration continued a constant flow with an average of 25 to 30 thousand immigrants per decade entering the country since 1818. It peaked in the years following World War I, to around 90 thousand, and again in the 1940s to around 50,000. In the 1880s and 1890s, German emigration to Latin America grew and in some years was the destination of up to 30% of German emigrants. During the Nazi period - until the ban on emigration came into effect in 1941 - some 100,000 Jews from Central Europe, the vast majority of which were German speaking, moved to South America with 90% of these moving to the Cono Sur or Southern Cone. From the start of the 20th century until 1946 80% of Jews lived in Europe but by the end of World War II this was reduced to 25%, however after the war over 50% of Jews now lived in the Americas. This change was aided by Jewish emigration groups such as the Hilfsverein deutschsprechender Juden (later to become Asociación Filantrópica Israelita) which was based in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The majority of German minorities in Latin America - as well as elsewhere around the world - experienced a decline in the use of the German language, with the exception of Brazil, where the dialect Riograndenser Hunsrückisch is being taught in schools and in some media, totaling over 200 thousand speakers spread over the Brazilian southern states.\nThe main cause of this decrease is the integration of communities, often originally sheltered, into the dominant society, and then modernisation after assimilation into society which confronts all immigrant groups.\n\nSpecific reasons for language change from German to the national language usually derive from the desire of many Germans to belong to their new communities after the end of World War II. This is a common feature among the German minorities in Latin America and those in Central and Eastern Europe: the majority of countries where German minorities lived had fought against the Germans during the war. With this change in situation the members of the German minorities, previously communities of status and prestige, were turned into undesirable minorities (though there were widespread elements of sympathy for Germany in many South American countries as well).\n\nFor many German minorities WWII thus represented the breaking point in the development of their language. In some South American countries the war period and immediately afterwards was a time of massive assimilation to the local culture (for example during the Getúlio Vargas period in Brazil).\n\nArgentina, Brazil, Chile and Paraguay show some clear demographic differences that affect the minority situation of the German language: Brazil and Argentina are massive countries and offer large amounts of land for immigrants to settle. The population density of the Southern Cone countries is relatively low (Brazil has 17 inhabitants/km², Chile has 15/km², Argentina and Paraguay both have 10/km², data from 1993), but there are major differences in the areas settled by Germans: Buenos Aires Province, which was settled by Germans, has a far higher population density than that of the Chaco in northern Paraguay (with 1 inhabitant/km²). Argentina and Chile have a far greater proportion of city dwellers (86% and 84% respectively), while Brazil is 82% urbanised, and Paraguay is just 47% urbanised. Most of the German immigrants that arrived in Brazil went on to live in small inland communities. The original 58 German communities of the early 19th century Brazil, grew today to over 250 towns where Germans are a majority, and German speaking is encouraged.\n\nThere are about 500,000 German speakers and around 320,000 Volga-Germans alone, of which 200,000 hold German citizenship. This makes Argentina one of the countries with the largest number of German speakers and is second only in Latin America to Brazil. In the 1930s there were about 700,000 people of German descent.\nRegional concentrations can be found in the provinces of Entre Ríos and Buenos Aires (with around 500,000 to 600,000) as well as Misiones and in the general area of the Chaco and the Pampas.\n\nHowever most German-descended Argentinians do not speak German with native fluency (that role has been taken by Spanish). The 300,000 German speakers are estimated to be immigrants and not actually born in Argentina, and because of this they still speak their home language while their descendants who were born in Argentina speak primarily Spanish.\n\nAccording to Deutsche Welle, there are some twelve million people of German ancestry in Brazil. Nevertheless, the number of people speaking any sort of German (Standard German, Hunsrückisch or East Pomeranian) is on the decrease, with 3 million speaking German as a first language today. The main variety of German in Brazil is Riograndenser Hunsrückisch which is to be found in the southern states. This version of German there has changed over 180 years of contact with Portuguese as well as the languages of other immigrant communities. Such contact has led to a new dialect of German concentrated in the German colonies in the southern province of Rio Grande do Sul. Although Riograndenser Hunsrückisch has long been the most widely spoken German dialect in southern Brazil, like all other minority languages in the region, it is experiencing very strong decline - especially in the last three or four decades. In all the vast majority of German descended Brazilians speaks Portuguese as their mother tongue today, and German is known only as a second or third language, if at all, to the point of initiatives to preserve the language being started recently in areas with strong German-descended presence, with government sponsored Gemeindeschulen. This is especially true for younger German-Brazilians. Another place where the German language continues alive is in some of the more of four thousand Brazilian Lutheran churches, in which some of the cults continue to be in German.\n\nChile (with a population of 15 million) has an estimated 40,000 German-speakers.\nAbout 30,000 ethnic Germans arrived in Chile. During the first flux of German immigration (between 1846 and 1875) German colonies were primarily set up in the \"Frontera\" region. The second wave of immigration occurred between 1882 and 1914 and consisted mainly of industrial and agricultural workers, mainly from eastern Germany; the third wave (after 1918) settled mainly in the cities. As in Argentina and Brazil, these populations are today overwhelmingly Spanish speaking, and German as a home language is in heavy decline.\n\nColombia has a population of about 40 million people. Of the 40 million only 5,000 people of German descent speak the language. Many of these people settled in Antioquia, and el Eje Cafetero. Most of the immigration occurred during World War I until the end of the Cold War. Many of these ethnic Germans now speak primarily Spanish at home.\n\nGermans came to South America in the world wars I and II, settling first in Colombia because of its wealth in natural resources and favourable weather conditions for agriculture. German immigrants built the Bavaria, Pilsen, Club soda Klausen factories in Cali, Barranquilla, Pereira, Medellin, and other cities. Germans born in Colombia celebrate Oktoberfest in Cali along with other traditions. There are currently German schools in various major cities around the country.\n\nCosta Rica has a population of 4.8 million, and a German speaker population of 8,000 people. Many of these people are immigrants or native German speakers from Germany or Switzerland and 18th, 19th and 20th centuries massive immigration descendants. But also in the northern area of the country, there are 2,200 German Mennonites communities in Sarapiquí and San Carlos that spoke Plautdietsch and other Low German dialects.\n\nThis German-Costa Rican community is one of the most important and biggest collectivities of German speakers in Central America and the Caribbean, and has a lot of cultural and social institutions, churches, farms, business companies and schools.\n\nIn Canada, there are 622,650 speakers of German according to the most recent census in 2006, with people of German ancestry (German Canadians) found throughout the country. German-speaking communities are particularly found in British Columbia (118,035) and Ontario (230,330). There is a large and vibrant community in the city of Kitchener, Ontario, which was at one point named Berlin. German immigrants were instrumental in the country's three largest urban areas: Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver; post-Second World War immigrants managed to preserve a fluency in the German language in their respective neighborhoods and sections. In the first half of the 20th century, over a million German-Canadians made the language Canada's third most spoken after French and English.\n\nIn Mexico there are also large populations of German ancestry, mainly in the cities of: Mexico City, Puebla, Mazatlán, Tapachula, Ecatepec de Morelos, and larger populations scattered in the states of Chihuahua, Durango, and Zacatecas.\n\nIn the United States, the states of North Dakota and South Dakota are the only states where German is the most common language spoken at home after English. German geographical names can be found throughout the Midwest region of the country, such as New Ulm and many other towns in Minnesota; Bismarck (North Dakota's state capital), Munich, Karlsruhe, and Strasburg (named after a town near Odessa in Ukraine) in North Dakota; New Braunfels, Fredericksburg, Weimar, and Muenster in Texas; Corn (formerly Korn), Kiefer and Berlin in Oklahoma; and Kiel, Berlin, and Germantown in Wisconsin.\n\nBetween 1843 and 1910, more than 5 million Germans emigrated overseas, mostly to the United States. German remained an important language in churches, schools, newspapers, and even the administration of the United States Brewers' Association through the early 20th century, but was severely repressed during World War I. Over the course of the 20th century, many of the descendants of 18th century and 19th century immigrants ceased speaking German at home, but small populations of speakers are still found in Pennsylvania (Amish, Hutterites, Dunkards and some Mennonites historically spoke Hutterite German and a West Central German variety of German known as Pennsylvania German or Pennsylvania Dutch), Kansas (Mennonites and Volga Germans), North Dakota (Hutterite Germans, Mennonites, Russian Germans, Volga Germans, and Baltic Germans), South Dakota, Montana, Texas (Texas German), Wisconsin, Indiana, Oregon, Oklahoma, and Ohio (72,570). A significant group of German Pietists in Iowa formed the Amana Colonies and continue to practice speaking their heritage language. Early twentieth century immigration was often to St. Louis, Chicago, New York, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh and Cincinnati.\n\nThe dialects of German which are or were primarily spoken in colonies or communities founded by German-speaking people resemble the dialects of the regions the founders came from. For example, Hutterite German resembles dialects of Carinthia. Texas German is a dialect spoken in the areas of Texas settled by the Adelsverein, such as New Braunfels and Fredericksburg. In the Amana Colonies in the state of Iowa, Amana German is spoken. Plautdietsch is a large minority language spoken in Northern Mexico by the Mennonite communities, and is spoken by more than 200,000 people in Mexico. Pennsylvania German is a West Central German dialect spoken by most of the Amish population of Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana and resembles Palatinate German dialects. \n\nHutterite German is an Upper German dialect of the Austro-Bavarian variety of the German language, which is spoken by Hutterite communities in Canada and the United States. Hutterite is spoken in the U.S. states of Washington, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Minnesota; and in the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. Its speakers belong to some Schmiedleit, Lehrerleit, and Dariusleit Hutterite groups, but there are also speakers among the older generations of Prairieleit (the descendants of those Hutterites who chose not to settle in colonies). Hutterite children who grow up in the colonies learn to speak Hutterite German before learning English, the standard language of the surrounding areas, in school. Many of these children, though, continue with German Grammar School, in addition to public school, throughout a student's elementary education.\n\nMinorities exist in the countries of the former Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Belgium, Italy, Canada, Chile, the United States, Latin America, Namibia, South Africa, Israel, and Australia. These German minorities, through their ethno-cultural vitality, exhibit an exceptional level of heterogeneity: variations concerning their demographics, their status within the majority community, the support they receive from institutions helping them to support their identity as a minority.\n\nAmong them are small groups (such as those in Namibia) and many very large groups (such as the almost 1 million non-evacuated Germans in Russia and Kazakhstan or the near 500,000 Germans in Brazil (see Riograndenser Hunsrückisch German)), groups that have been greatly \"folklorised\" and almost completely linguistically assimilated (such as most people of German descent in the US, Canada, Australia, Argentina and Brazil), and others, such as the true linguistic minorities (like the still German-speaking minorities in the US, Argentina and Brazil, in western Siberia or in Romania and Hungary); other groups, which are classified as religio-cultural groups rather than ethnic minorities, (such as the Eastern-Low German speaking Mennonites in Paraguay, Mexico, Belize or in the Altay region of Siberia) and the groups who maintain their status thanks to strong identification with their ethnicity and their religious sentiment (such as the groups in Upper Silesia, Poland or in South Jutland in Denmark).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "870619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870619", "title": "Hal Holbrook", "text": "Hal Holbrook\n\nHarold Rowe Holbrook Jr. (born February 17, 1925) is an American actor, television director and writer. He first received critical acclaim in 1954 for a one-man stage show he developed, \"Mark Twain Tonight\", while studying at Denison University, performing as Mark Twain. He won Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play in 1966 for his portrayal of Twain. Throughout his career, he won five Primetime Emmy Awards. \n\nHolbrook made his film debut in Sidney Lumet's \"The Group\" (1966). He later gained international fame for his performance as Deep Throat in the 1976 film \"All the President's Men\". He played Abraham Lincoln in the 1976 miniseries \"Lincoln\". He has also appeared in such films as \"Julia\" (1977), \"The Fog\" (1980), \"Creepshow\" (1982), \"Wall Street\" (1987), \"The Firm\" (1993), \"Hercules\" (1997), and \"Men of Honor\" (2000).\n\nHolbrook's role as Ron Franz in Sean Penn's \"Into the Wild\" (2007) earned him both Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations for Best Supporting Actor. Until Robert Duvall was nominated for an Academy Award in 2015, Holbrook was the oldest actor to receive a Best Supporting Actor nomination. In 2009, Holbrook received critical acclaim for his performance as recently retired farmer, Abner Meecham, in the independent film \"That Evening Sun\".\n\nIn his later career, Holbrook appeared as Francis Preston Blair in Steven Spielberg's \"Lincoln\" (2012), provided his voice as Mayday in the Disney animated film \"\" (2014) and as Whizzer in \"Blackway\" (2015).\n\nAs a television actor, Holbrook is known for starring in and directing four episodes in \"Designing Women\" as Reese Watson, opposite his wife, Dixie Carter. Later in his career, he has starred in minor roles in \"Sons of Anarchy\", \"The Event\", and \"Rectify\". He has guest-starred in many critically acclaimed television series such as \"NCIS\", \"The West Wing\", \"The Sopranos\", \"ER\", \"Bones\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", and \"Hawaii Five-0\".\n\nIn 2003, Holbrook was honored with the National Humanities Medal by President George W. Bush.\n\nHolbrook was born in Cleveland, Ohio, the son of Aileen (née Davenport) Holbrook (1905–1987), a vaudeville dancer, and Harold Rowe Holbrook Sr. (1902–1982).\n\nAfter being abandoned by his parents at age two, along with his two older sisters, they were raised by his paternal grandparents, first in Weymouth, Massachusetts, and later in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He graduated from Culver Military Academy, now part of the Culver Academies, and then from Denison University, where an honors project about Mark Twain led him to develop the one-man show for which he is best known, a series of performances called \"Mark Twain Tonight\".\n\nFrom 1942-46, Holbrook served in the United States Army in World War II under the ranks of staff sergeant and was stationed in Newfoundland. While stationed in Newfoundland, he performed in theater productions such as the play \"Madam Precious\".\n\nHolbrook's first solo performance as Twain was at Lock Haven State Teachers College in Pennsylvania in 1954. Ed Sullivan saw him and gave Holbrook his first national exposure on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" on February 12, 1956. Holbrook was also a member of the Valley Players (1941–1962), a summer-stock theater company based in Holyoke, Massachusetts, which performed at Mountain Park Casino Playhouse at Mountain Park. He joined The Lamns in 1955, where he began developing his one-man show. He was a member of the cast for several years and performed \"Mark Twain Tonight\" as the 1957 season opener. The State Department even sent him on a European tour, which included pioneering appearances behind the Iron Curtain.\nIn 1959, Holbrook first played the role off-Broadway. Columbia Records recorded an LP of excerpts from the show.\n\nHolbrook performed in a special production for the New York World's Fair (1964, 1965) for the Bell Telephone Pavilion. Jo Mielziner created an innovative audio-visual ride experience and used Holbrook's acting talents on 65 different action screens for \"The Ride Of Communications\" with the movie itself known as \"From Drumbeats to Telstar\".\n\nIn 1967, \"Mark Twain Tonight\" was presented on television by CBS and Xerox, and Holbrook received an Emmy for his performance. Holbrook's Twain first played on Broadway in 1966, and again in 1977 and 2005; Holbrook was 80 years old during his most recent Broadway run, older (for the first time) than the character he was portraying. Holbrook won a Tony Award for the performance in 1966. Until Holbrook retired in 2017, aged 92, \"Mark Twain Tonight\" toured the country, which amounted to over about 2100 performances. He has portrayed Twain longer than Samuel Langhorne Clemens did.\n\nIn 1964, Holbrook played the role of the Major in the original production of Arthur Miller's \"Incident at Vichy\". In 1968, he was one of the replacements for Richard Kiley in the original Broadway production of \"Man of La Mancha\", although he had limited singing ability. In 1966, Holbrook starred opposite Shirley Booth in the acclaimed CBS Playhouse production of \"The Glass Menagerie\".\n\nHolbrook co-starred with Martin Sheen in the controversial and acclaimed 1972 television film \"That Certain Summer\". In 1973, Holbrook appeared as Lieutenant Neil Briggs, the boss and rival of Detective Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) in \"Magnum Force\", an \"obsessively neat and prim fanatic\" who supports the obliteration of San Francisco's criminals and who is the leader of a rogue group of vigilante officers.\n\nIn 1976, Holbrook won acclaim for his portrayal of Abraham Lincoln in a series of television specials based on Carl Sandburg's acclaimed biography. He won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series for the 1970 series \"\". In 1979, he starred with Katharine Ross, Barry Bostwick, and Richard Anderson in the made-for-TV movie \"Murder by Natural Causes\". Holbrook also had a major role on the sitcom \"Evening Shade\" throughout its entire run.\n\nEarly in his career, Holbrook worked onstage and in a television soap opera, \"The Brighter Day\". He is also famous for his role as the enigmatic Deep Throat (whose identity was unknown at the time) in the film \"All the President's Men\". Holbrook was the narrator on the Ken Burns documentary \"\" in 1997.\n\nFrom 1986-89, Holbrook had a recurring role as Reese Watson on \"Designing Women\", opposite his wife Dixie Carter. For a short period between 1988 and 1990, Holbrook directed four episodes of the series.\n\nIn 1999, Holbrook was inducted into the American Theatre Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2000, Holbrook appeared in\" Men of Honor\", where he portrayed a racist and hypocritical officer who endlessly tries to fail an African-American diver trainee.\n\nHe appeared in Sean Penn's critically acclaimed film \"Into the Wild\" (2007) and received an Oscar nomination for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role at the 80th Academy Awards. At the time, this rendered Holbrook, at age 82, the oldest nominee in Academy Award history in the Best Supporting Actor category.\n\nOn December 20, 2007, Holbrook was nominated for a Screen Actors Guild Award for his work in the film. In late August through mid-September 2007, he starred as the narrator in the Hartford Stage production of Thornton Wilder's \"Our Town\", a role he had once played on television.\n\nIn 2003, President George W. Bush honored Holbrook with a National Humanities Medal for \"charming audiences with the wit and wisdom of Mark Twain as Twain's outlook never fails to give Holbrook a good show to put on\".\n\nHolbrook appeared with wife Dixie Carter in \"That Evening Sun\", filmed in East Tennessee in the summer of 2008. The film, produced by Dogwood Entertainment, is based on a short story by William Gay. \"That Evening Sun\" premiered in March 2009 at South By Southwest, where it received the Audience Award for Narrative Feature and a special Jury Prize for Ensemble Cast. Joe Leydon of \"Variety\" hailed Hollbrook's performance in the film as a \"career-highlight star turn as an irascible octogenarian farmer who will not go gentle into that good night.\" \"That Evening Sun\" also was screened at the 2009 Nashville Film Festival, where Holbrook was honored with a special Lifetime Achievement Award, and the film itself received another Audience Award.\n\nHolbrook appeared as a featured guest star in a 2006 episode of the HBO series \"The Sopranos\" and the \"NCIS\" episode \"Escaped\". On April 22, 2010, Holbrook signed on to portray Katey Sagal's character's father on the FX original series\" Sons of Anarchy\" for a four-episode arc in their third season, as well as appearing in additional fifth episode in the final season. He also had a multiple-episode arc on \"The Event\", an American television series on NBC, appearing in the 2010–2011 season.\n\nIn 2011, Holbrook appeared in \"Water for Elephants\". In 2012, Steven Spielberg cast Holbrook to play Francis Preston Blair in \"Lincoln\". His recent films are Gus Van Sant's \"Promised Land\" (2012), the animated film \"Planes: Fire & Rescue\" (2014), and in the minor role as Whizzer in the drama film \"Blackway\" (2016).\n\nIn 2014, Holbrook was the subject of Scott Teems' documentary \"Holbrook/Twain: An American Odyssey\" depicting Holbrook's long lasting career as portraying Twain. It was premiered at the Los Angeles Film Festival that same year.\n\nIn 2016, Holbrook was cast as Red Hudmore and appeared in the final season of \"Bones\" on January 17, 2017. On March 23, 2017, aged 92, he appeared on an episode on \"Grey's Anatomy\" playing a retired thoracic surgeon whose wife is a patient, and on \"Hawaii Five-0\" later in the year.\n\nIn September 2017, after six decades of playing the role of Mark Twain, Holbrook announced his retirement from the one-man show \"Mark Twain Tonight!\" Holbrook indicated that he would like to continue working on movies and television.\n\nHolbrook has been married three times and has three children. He married a Canadian, Ruby Elaine Johnstone (born August 28, 1923; later known as actress Ruby Holbrook) on September 22, 1945, and they had two children, Victoria Rowe Holbrook and David Vining Holbrook. They divorced in 1965, and on December 28, 1966, he married Carol Eve Rossen. They had one child, Eve Holbrook, and they divorced on June 14, 1983.\n\nArchitect Hoyte Johnson of Atlanta redesigned Carter's Tennessee family home and created an environment that the couple shared with family and friends. Holbrook said the home has the \"feel\" of the Mark Twain House in Hartford, Connecticut, and that there is no other place to which he feels so ideally suited. Holbrook had a recurring role on his wife's hit sitcom \"Designing Women,\" appearing in nine episodes between 1986 and 1989 as Carter's on-screen significant other. In 2011, Holbrook's memoir, \"Harold: The Boy Who Became Mark Twain\", was published by Farrar, Straus and Giroux.\n\nIn October 2016, Holbrook wrote a letter to \"The New York Times\" defending actor-director Nate Parker over his alleged 1991 rape of a woman and Parker's controversial film \"The Birth of a Nation\". He urged others to \"move on\" from Parker's past and to view the film which was \"an exceptional piece of artistry and a vital portrait of our American experience\".\n\nHolbrook has occasionally criticized the politicization of religion. He is a registered independent, but leans towards the liberal end of the political spectrum. He criticized the Republican Party while Barack Obama was in office.\n\nIn 2016, he castigated then-Republican-candidate Donald Trump for not having \"the maturity to run the country\". Holbrook praised Senator Bernie Sanders as the only politician who does not \"say what they think might get them elected\" and praised his honesty. In 2017, Holbrook again criticized President Trump, saying, \"We have [Trump] who has been elected president now who is upending and destroying a great many of our American values...he's trying to distort the American dream, which he's doing every hour of the day.\" Holbrook opposes President Trump's immigration ban while praising the protests against the ban.\n\nThe local community of McLemoresville, Tennessee, hometown of his wife Dixie Carter, constructed the Dixie Theatre for Performing Arts in nearby Huntingdon, Tennessee, which features the Hal Holbrook Auditorium.\n\nOn June 8, 2017, actor J. G. Hertzler announced his candidacy as a U.S. House Representative for New York's 23rd congressional district in the 2018 elections. In his campaign, he plans to act \"in the persona of Mark Twain\", to present his ideas \"through the brilliant humorist for all ages\" as a tribute both to Twain and to Holbrook.\n\nUpon his retirement from his Mark Twain persona, \"The HuffPost\" hailed Holbrook as \"the man who has done more to keep Mark Twain on people's minds than anyone else\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19127473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19127473", "title": "HealthNewsReview.org", "text": "HealthNewsReview.org\n\nHealthNewsReview.org is a web-based project that rates the completeness, accuracy, and balance of news stories that include claims about medical treatments, tests, products and procedures. The Founder and Publisher is Gary Schwitzer, a health care journalist for more than four decades who is now an Adjunct Associate Professor in the University of Minnesota School of Public Health. The project's 10-point grading scale includes whether a story gives information about its sources and their competing interests, quantifies the benefits of a treatment, and appraises the evidence supporting the story's claims.\n\nIn its first 22 months, the website reviewed 500 news stories, and found that they usually failed to discuss evidence quality, alternative options, costs, and absolute sizes of benefits and harms. At that time, the editors of the journal PLoS Medicine wrote: “Schwitzer’s alarming report card of the trouble with medical news stories is thus a wake-up call for all of us involved in disseminating health research-researchers, academic institutions, journal editors, reporters, and media organizations-to work collaboratively to improve the standards of health reporting.” In 2011, the Columbia Journalism Review website published an update on the site's findings.\n\nIn 2006, the year the project launched, it was honored with a Knight-Batten Award for Innovations in Journalism. In 2007, it won a Mirror Award to honor those \"who hold a mirror to their own industry for the public’s benefit.\" In 2009, Schwitzer's blog was named \"Best Medical Blog\" in competition hosted by Medgadget.com.\n\nThe organization once reviewed news on television but ceased in 2009.\n\nIn 2014, Schwitzer published an article in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine, providing an update on the lessons learned after 8 years with the HealthNewsReview.org project.\n\nIn 2015, the project also began systematically reviewing health care news releases written by public relations professionals. By 2018, the editorial team had reviewed more than 500 such PR news releases to go along with more than 2,500 reviews of news stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "487133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487133", "title": "Hegemony or Survival", "text": "Hegemony or Survival\n\nHegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance is a study of the \"American Empire\" written by the American linguist and political activist Noam Chomsky, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It was first published in the United States in November 2003 by Metropolitan Books and then in the United Kingdom by Penguin Books.\n\nChomsky's main argument in \"Hegemony or Survival\" is that the socio-economic elite who control the United States have pursued an \"Imperial Grand Strategy\" since the end of World War II to maintain global hegemony through military, political, and economic means. He argues that in doing so they have repeatedly shown a total disregard for democracy and human rights, in stark contrast to the US government's professed support for those values. He further argues that this continual pursuit of global hegemony threatens the existence of humanity itself because of the increasing proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.\n\nDrawing historical examples from 1945 through to 2003, Chomsky looks at the US government's support for regimes responsible for mass human rights abuses —including ethnic cleansing and genocide—namely El Salvador, Colombia, Turkey, Israel, Egypt, South Africa, and Indonesia. He also discusses US support for militant dissident groups widely considered \"terrorists\", particularly in Nicaragua and Cuba, as well as direct military interventions, such as the Vietnam War, NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, Afghan War and Iraq War, to further its power and grasp of resources. He highlights that US foreign policy—whether controlled by Republican or Democratic administrations—pursues the same agenda of gaining access to lucrative resources and maintaining US world dominance.\n\nMainstream press reviews in the US were mixed and were largely negative in the UK, although a review in Asia was more positive. In a speech before the UN General Assembly in September 2006, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez openly praised the work. Sales of the book surged after the recommendation, its rank on Amazon.com rising to #1 in paperback and #6 in hardcover in only a few days.\n\nNoam Chomsky (1928–) was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe. Becoming academically involved in the field of linguistics, Chomsky gained a PhD and secured a teaching job at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In the field of linguistics, he is credited as the creator or co-creator of the Chomsky hierarchy and the universal grammar theory, achieving international recognition for his work.\n\nPolitically, Chomsky had held radical leftist views since childhood, identifying himself with anarcho-syndicalism and libertarian socialism. A staunch critic of U.S. foreign policy, he arose to public attention for these views in 1967, when \"The New York Times\" published his article, \"The Responsibility of Intellectuals\", a criticism of the Vietnam War.\nHis media criticism has included \"\" (1988), co-written with Edward S. Herman, an analysis articulating the propaganda model theory for examining the media.\n\nChomsky is the author of over 100 books, and has been described as a prominent cultural figure. According to the Arts and Humanities Citation Index in 1992, Chomsky was cited as a source more often than any other living scholar from 1980 to 1992, and was the eighth most cited source overall.\n\nThe book was published as the first in The American Empire Series, edited for Metropolitan Books by Steve Fraser and Tom Engelhardt. The series had been devised as a vehicle for works of anti-imperialism that were critical of U.S. foreign policy. Engelhardt informed an interviewer that the series reflected their \"counterinterventionary impulse\" and represented an attempt to reclaim \"the word\" from the political right in the U.S. They agreed to publish with Metropolitan because it was co-run by Engelhardt and Sara Bershtel. In conjunction with the publication of the book, Chomsky answered a series of public questions on the website of \"The Washington Post\".\n\nChomsky's first chapter, \"Priorities and Prospects\", provides an introduction to U.S. global dominance at the start of 2003. He looks at the role of propaganda – employed by government and mass media – in shaping public opinion in both the U.S. and United Kingdom, arguing that it allows a wealthy elite to thrive at the expense of the majority. As evidence for the manner in which the media shapes public opinion on foreign policy, he discusses the role of the U.S. government in protecting its economic interests in Nicaragua, first by supporting the military junta of General Somoza and then by supporting the Contra militias, in both instances leading to mass human rights abuses which were ignored by the mainstream U.S. media.\n\nChapter two, \"Imperial Grand Strategy\", looks at the U.S. government's belief that it should take part in \"preventative war\" against states who threaten its global hegemony, despite the illegality of these actions under international law. Chomsky argues that the targets of U.S. preventative war must be weak, yet important and easy to depict as a threat to the U.S. populace. Using the 2003 invasion of Iraq as an example, he discusses how the U.S. government and media portrayed the Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein as a threat to the U.S. and other Middle Eastern states, something which Chomsky argues it was not.\n\nChapter three, \"The New Era of Enlightenment\", explores further examples of U.S. interventionism in world affairs. Criticising the standard U.S. government claim that such interventionism is for humanitarian purposes, Chomsky maintains that it is an attempt to further the power of U.S. capitalism, with little interest in the welfare of the people involved. Using the 1999 NATO intervention in Kosovo as an example, he argues that western forces intervened not to protect Albanian Kosovans from Serbian aggression (as they claimed), but to humiliate and weaken Serbian President Slobodan Milošević, who had remained resistant to western demands for years. He asserts that western criticism of foreign human rights abuses is politically motivated, highlighting that while the U.S. were intervening in Kosovo, they were simultaneously supporting the governments of Turkey, Colombia and Indonesia, all of whom were involved in widespread human rights abuses and ethnic cleansing.\n\nIn the fourth chapter, \"Dangerous Times\", Chomsky focuses primarily on U.S. interventionism throughout Latin America, which the government has defended through its Monroe Doctrine. He discusses the U.S. campaign to topple the socialist government of Fidel Castro in Cuba, highlighting both its economic embargo of the island and its financial backing for militant groups that attack Cuban targets, including the perpetrators of the Bay of Pigs invasion and the bombing of Cubana Flight 455. He furthermore discusses the U.S. government's role in training Latin American right wing paramilitary squads, who have perpetrated widespread human rights abuses across the region.\n\nChapter five, \"The Iraq Connection\", looks at the background to the 2003 Iraq War, beginning with an analysis of the activities of the Reagan administration in the 1980s, who focused their military efforts in Central America and the Middle East. Chomsky argues that Reagan's administration utilized fear and nationalist rhetoric to distract the public from the poor economic situation that the U.S. was facing, finding scapegoats in the form of the leftist governments of Libya, Grenada and Nicaragua, as well as the international drug trade. He examines the long relationship that the U.S. had with the Hussein's Iraqi government, noting that they actively supported Hussein throughout the Iran–Iraq War, Al-Anfal Campaign and the Halabja poison gas attack, only turning against their former ally after his Invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Proceeding to critique the idea that the Bush II administration was genuinely concerned about threats to U.S. security, he criticises their attempts to undermine international efforts to prevent the militarization of space, the abolition of biological warfare, and the fight against global pollution, as well as the fact that they ignored all warnings that the Iraq invasion would cause a worldwide anti-American backlash. Exploring the dismissive attitude that the U.S. took towards European governments who opposed the war, namely France and Germany, he critiques the idea that the U.S. wanted to install a democratic government in Iraq, arguing that they wanted to install a puppet regime that would be obedient to U.S. corporate interests.\n\nIn the sixth chapter, \"Dilemmas of Dominance\", Chomsky explores the relationship that the U.S. has had with Eastern Europe since the collapse of the Soviet Union and with East Asia since the Second World War. In the former, Chomsky argues, the U.S. has allied itself with the capitalist reformers who have advocated privatization and neoliberalism at the expense of the welfare state, leading to increased poverty and demographic decline across the region. In the latter, he has explored the role that the U.S. has played – through the likes of the San Francisco Peace Treaty of 1951 – in supporting capitalist development, but trying to ensure its own economic hegemony at the same time.\n\nChapter seven, \"Cauldron of Animosities\", opens with a discussion of U.S. support for the increasing militarization of Israel and its illegal development of nuclear weapons, something Chomsky believes threatens peace in the Middle East by encouraging nations like Iran and Iraq to do the same. He explores the longstanding western exploitation of the Middle East for its oil resources, first by the British Empire and subsequently by the U.S. post-World War II, and then looks at the U.S.' role in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, continually supporting Israel both militarily and politically, furthering human right abuses against the Palestinian people and repeatedly sabotaging the peace process.\nThe eighth chapter, \"Terrorism and Justice: Some Useful Truisms\", looks at what Chomsky calls \"a few simple truths\" regarding the criteria that is accepted for a conflict to be internationally recognized as a \"just war\". He argues that these truisms are continually ignored when it comes to the actions of the U.S. and her allies. Exploring the concepts of \"terror\" and \"terrorism\", he argues that the U.S. only use the term to refer to the actions of their enemies, and never to their own actions, no matter how similar they may be. As an example of such double standards, he highlights the public outcry at the killing of Leon Klinghoffer, a disabled American murdered by Palestinian militants in 1985, contrasting it with the complete U.S. ignorance of the Israeli military's killing of a disabled Palestinian, Kemal Zughayer, in 2002. Focusing in on the Afghan War – widely described as a \"just war\" in the U.S. press – he criticizes such a description, arguing that the conflict was opposed by the majority of the world's population, including the Afghan people.\n\nIn the final chapter, \"A Passing Nightmare\", Chomsky turns his attention to weapons of mass destruction. He argues that rather than helping to eradicate nuclear, chemical and biological weaponry, the U.S. has continually increased its number of nuclear warheads, thereby encouraging other nations to do the same, putting the world in jeopardy of nuclear holocaust. Discussing the role of the U.S. in creating ballistic missile defense systems and encouraging the militarization of outer space, he notes that the U.S. government have continually undermined international treaties to decrease the number of weapons of mass destruction, because the American socio-economic elite believe that \"hegemony is more important than survival.\" However, he argues that there is still hope for humanity if the citizens of the world – the \"Second Superpower\" – continue to criticize and oppose the actions of the U.S. government.\n\nChomsky's primary argument in \"Hegemony or Survival\" is that the United States government has pursued an \"Imperial Grand Strategy\" in order to maintain its status as the world's foremost superpower since at least the end of the Second World War. Adopting the term \"Imperial Grand Strategy\" from international affairs specialist John Ikenberry of Princeton University, he quotes Ikenberry on the nature of this doctrine and the manner in which it considers the \"rule of force\" to be more important than the \"rule of law\", thereby ignoring international law. Quoting liberal statesman Dean Acheson, Chomsky asserts that the purpose of this strategy is to prevent any challenge to the \"power, position, and prestige of the United States\".\n\nNoting that economic decision making in the United States is highly centralized among a select socio-economic elite who control big business, he argues that this elite play a dominant role in this Imperial Grand Strategy because they consistently maintain a strong influence over successive U.S. governments. As a result, he argues that U.S. foreign policy has focused on gaining and maintaining unrestricted access to markets, energy supplies, and strategic resources across the world. Chomsky goes on to categorize the specific purposes of the doctrine as:\n\nChomsky argues that as a part of this strategy, the U.S. has regularly engaged in \"preventative war\", which he highlights is illegal under international law and could be categorised as a war crime. Preventative war refers to conflict waged to prevent a nation ever reaching the stage where it could become a potential threat, and according to Chomsky, under the regimes of Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush and his son George W. Bush it has actively involved attacking \"an imagined or invented threat\" such as Grenada and Iraq. He differentiates this \"preventative war\" from \"preemptive war\", which he argues can be justifiable under international law in cases of self-defence. Examining examples of preventative war waged by the United States, he notes that all of the nations that have been attacked have shared the same three characteristics: 1) they are \"virtually defenseless\", 2) they are \"important enough to be worth the trouble\" and 3) there has been a way to portray them as \"the ultimate evil and an imminent threat to our survival.\"\n\nChomsky argues that the Republican neoconservative administration of President George W. Bush, elected to the presidency in 2001, differed from earlier administrations in one key respect: it was open about adhering to the Imperial Grand Strategy, outright declaring that it would be willing to use force to ensure U.S. global hegemony despite international condemnation. Chomsky sees this as being in contrast to previous administrations, who had never explicitly informed the public that they adhered to such a doctrine. Instead, earlier administrations had discussed their intentions within elite circles which were known only to specialists or readers of dissident literature. Thus, where once only the socio-economic elite and their left-wing critics knew of the Imperial Grand Strategy, now the entire American populace are potentially aware of it. He considers this a \"significant difference.\"\n\nIn Chomsky's view, the invasion of Iraq by a U.S. and U.K. coalition must be seen in the wider context of the U.S. government's Imperial Grand Strategy. He claims that the Iraq invasion fits the three criteria that he has highlighted for being classified as a U.S. target for preventative war. Considering the country \"virtually defenseless\" against the superior might of the western armed forces, he also notes that securing control of the country would be an important move for the U.S. socio-economic elite, gaining unlimited access to the country's lucrative oil resources and asserting their own military might to intimidate other nations into compliance. He also argued that government and media propaganda also set out to forge an erroneous link between Iraq President Saddam Hussein and Al-Qaeda, playing on the American people's horror of the 9/11 attacks. Furthermore, he stated that they also wrongly claimed that the Iraqi government was developing weapons of mass destruction to be used against the U.S. or its allies. Chomsky remarks that the 2003 invasion of Iraq is particularly significant because it signals the \"new norm\" in international relations, and that in future the U.S. might be willing to wage a preventative war against \"Iran, Syria, the Andean region, and a number of others.\"\n\nWriting in the \"International Affairs\" journal, Michael T. Boyle of the Australian National University reviewed \"Hegemony or Survival\" alongside Immanuel Wallerstein's \"The Decline of American Power: The U.S. in a Chaotic World\" (2003), considering both to be \"well-considered if imperfect arguments\" that the Bush administration's foreign policy was in keeping with a long history of U.S. interference in global affairs. Praising its \"prescient\" appearance and its analysis of the historical evidence, Boyle did present some criticism of the book. In stressing the Bush administration's continuity with earlier presidencies, Boyle argued that Chomsky had neglected to highlight the differences between the Bush administration and its predecessors, in particular its willingness to break relationships with long-standing allies. Furthermore, Boyle opined that Chomsky had failed to offer a \"compelling explanation\" for why the U.S. government was willing to declare war on Iraq in 2003, a conflict that was far costlier and riskier than the 1980s military adventures in Nicaragua and Grenada.\n\nJournalism lecturer David Blackall of the University of Wollongong reviewed Chomsky's book for the \"Asia Pacific Media Educator\". He noted that it would polarize readers between those whose anti-imperialist beliefs would be reinforced and those who would denounce Chomsky's ideas as conspiracy theories. He thought the book was important in reminding readers that the War on Terror was keeping the US public in fear and was ensuring an ongoing international market for weaponry. However, he thought that there were \"recurring attribution problems\" in Chomsky's text, for instance by referring to the international press as if it were a homogeneous entity with a single point of view. Ultimately, he thought that the book had something to teach educators of journalism: that \"[w]hen there is a desire of the power elite to move on an issue, and the population is generally opposed, then the issue is removed from the political arena and from the news media priorities – distraction being a primary method.\"\n\nEliza Mathews of the University of Queensland published a review of the book in the \"Journal of Australian Studies\". She considered it similar to other books criticizing Bush's administration, such as those of Michael Moore, John Dean, and Bob Woodward, but thought it novel in acknowledging prior policy. She thought some of his research to be \"inadequate\" in supporting his arguments, relying too heavily on newspaper reports and not verifying secondary sources. In other instances, she thought it unsatisfactory that Chomsky used his own work as a reference. She thought that despite being aimed at a wide audience, the text was not \"light reading\", and expressed dislike at Chomsky's \"sarcastic tone\".\n\nViews in the U.S. press were mixed. In a review for \"The New York Times\", current U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Harvard scholar, and Pulitzer Prize winner Samantha Power described the book as a \"raging and often meandering assault\" on U.S. foreign policy. Believing that Chomsky divides the world into two camps, the oppressor and the oppressed, she asserts that in \"Hegemony or Survival\" he portrays the U.S. as \"the prime oppressor, [who] can do no right\", meanwhile overlooking the crimes of the oppressed. Arguing that he completely ignores the concept that the U.S. might undertake any foreign interventions with good intentions, she asserts that his book is not easy to read, and that his \"glib and caustic tone\" are distracting. Furthermore, she highlights problems with his use of end notes, particularly when some of these notes simply reference his earlier publications. Although disagreeing with his arguments, she believed that reading his book was \"sobering and instructive\", having value in illustrating how many non-Americans viewed the U.S. and highlighting many of the \"structural defects\" in U.S. foreign policy. Furthermore, recognizing that Chomsky's \"critiques have come to influence and reflect mainstream opinion elsewhere in the world,\" she concedes that Chomksy's analysis has a coherence that, for many, resolves much of the post-9/11 confusion and disillusionment stemming from the Bush administration's standard response to the question, \"Why do they hate us?\". \nCarol Armbrust discussed Chomsky's book critically in \"The Antioch Review\", claiming that his writing style was \"a monumental turnoff\" and that only those who already agreed with Chomsky's political views would read the book. Claiming that his opinions constituted \"conspiracy theories\", she compared his arguments to adding \"two and two\" together and getting \"minus six\". Conversely, \"Publishers Weekly\" considered it \"highly readable\" and thought it both \"cogent and provocative\", representing a significant addition to the debate on U.S. foreign policy.\n\nViews in the British press were largely negative. Writing in \"The Observer\", journalist Nick Cohen wrote disparagingly of \"Hegemony or Survival\", describing Chomsky as a \"master of looking-glass politics\", exemplifying a trend in the western Left for being more interested in anti-Americanism than in opposing the \"fascist\" regime of Saddam Hussein. Focusing his critique primarily on Chomsky and his readership than the book itself, he refers to its \"convoluted prose\", and remarks that its argument is \"dense and filled with non sequiturs\". In a shorter review published in \"The Observer\", Oliver Robinson described the work as an \"unequivocally incensed, if meandering\" study of U.S. foreign policy.\n\nPiyush Mathur reviewed the work for \"Asia Times Online\", a joint Thai-Hong Kongese publication. Praising the book, Mathur argued that by being a U.S. citizen who was willing to criticise his own government, Chomsky was showing \"a way beyond parochialism\" that avoided nationalistic or ethnocentric intentions. Highlighting Chomsky's \"wry humor and sarcasm\", he notes that the author \"successfully shows that the American emperor, while preaching modesty to the rest, himself struts about rather ostentatiously.\" Mathur also turned his attention to the most prominent press reviews of the book that appeared in the U.S. and U.K., those of Power and Cohen. He argues that the former's review was \"hardly charitable\", and that she had narrowly framed \"Hegemony or Survival\" as a critique purely of the Bush administration, something Mathur stated it clearly was not. Turning to Cohen's \"venomous\" review, he highlights that it actually dealt very little with Chomsky's book, instead offering a diatribe against the Left, one which consisted of a \"thoroughly convoluted vagueness\". Ultimately, Mathur notes that the \"strangely defensive and rather parochial posture\" adopted by Power and Cohen was \"entirely in line\" with the reception that Chomsky had received from the Anglo-American world.\n\nIn September 2006, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez held up a Spanish-language copy of \"Hegemony or Survival\" during his speech at the United Nations. Chávez praised the work as an \"excellent book to help us understand what has been happening in the world throughout the 20th century\". He urged everyone present to read it, including those in the U.S., remarking that \"I think that the first people who should read this book are our brothers and sisters in the United States, because their threat is right in their own house.\" A vocal anti-imperialist and prominent critic of U.S. foreign policy, particularly in his native Latin America, Chávez went on to describe U.S. President Bush as the \"devil\" in his speech.\n\nIn the U.S., demand for the book dramatically increased. Within a week, sales had risen tenfold; it reached number 1 on amazon.com's best-seller list, and number 6 in the best-seller lists of the bookstore chains Borders Group and Barnes & Noble. A prominent critic of Chomsky's political views, Alan Dershowitz of Harvard Law School, told \"The New York Times\" that he believed most of those buying \"Hegemony or Survival\" would not read it, remarking that \"I don't know anybody who's ever read a Chomsky book\". Furthermore, he related that the MIT professor \"does not write page turners, he writes page stoppers. There are a lot of bent pages in Noam Chomsky's books, and they are usually at about Page 16.\"\n\nIn response to Chávez's endorsement, Chomsky told \"The New York Times\" that he would be \"happy to meet\" the Venezuelan President, asserting that he was \"quite interested\" in what his administration had achieved and thought many of Chávez's views to be \"quite constructive\". This meeting came about in August 2009, when Chomsky visited the Latin American country. In a press conference to commence the meeting, Chávez made reference to the intellectual's work, remarking \"Hegemony or survival; we opt for survival\", before comparing Chomsky's thesis with the concept of \"Socialism or Barbarism\" advocated by German Marxist Rosa Luxemburg in the early 20th century. Speaking through an interpreter, Chomsky replied that \"I write about peace and criticize the barriers to peace; that's easy. What's harder is to create a better world ... and what's so exciting about at last visiting Venezuela is that I can see how a better world is being created.\" He went on to Venezolana de Televisión, where he commented on the U.S. government's role in orchestrating the 2009 Honduran coup d'état to overthrow leftist President Manuel Zelaya. He also expressed cautious support for the leftist reforms being implemented by Chávez's administration, remarking his opinion that their moves \"toward the creation of another socio-economic model could have a global impact if these projects are successfully carried out\".\n\nIn summer 2011, Chomsky expressed criticism of Chávez's government over the controversial imprisonment of judge María Lourdes Afiuni, who had been detained since December 2009. He asserted that he was \"convinced that she must be set free, not only due to her physical and psychological health conditions, but in conformance with the human dignity the Bolivarian revolution presents as a goal.\" In December 2011, Chomsky reiterated this position, sending a letter to Chávez asking him to include the judge in his \"Christmas-time pardons\". Afiuni was released on June 14, 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18150519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18150519", "title": "Hermann Beckh", "text": "Hermann Beckh\n\nHermann Beckh (4 May 1875, Nuremberg – 1 March 1937, Stuttgart) was a pioneering German Tibetologist and prominent promoter of anthroposophy.\n\nHermann Beckh was born in Nuremberg to a factory owner, Eugen Beckh, and his wife Marie, née Seiler (died 1943). He had a sister some 12 years younger with whom he had a close friendship until she died in 1929.\n\nDue to his unusual memory skills, he graduated from high school with excellent marks in 1893 and received a scholarship at the Munich Maximilianeum. Given his many interests and talents, he found the initial decision of field of study a difficult one; his peers encouraged him towards law. He completed his studies of law with a prizewinning thesis \"Die Beweislast nach dem Bürgerlichen Gesetzbuch\" (\"The Onus of Proof, from the Civil Law Code\") and was employed as an assessor until 1899. It became clear to him that he was not made out to be a judge when he had to impose a fine on a poor married couple for stealing wood. He paid the couple's fine out of his own pocket and left his position.\n\nHe later took up the study of oriental languages, Indology, and Tibetology at the Christian-Albrechts-Universität at Kiel. In 1907, he received his doctorate at Humboldt-Universität at Berlin with a thesis on Kalidasa's poem \"Meghaduta\". He received his final degree the following year with further work on this poem. He taught as a private tutor of the Tibetan language until 1921 and worked cataloguing Tibetan manuscripts at the Staatsbibliothek in Berlin.\n\nIn 1911, he met Rudolf Steiner and Friedrich Rittelmeyer, which led to his intensive study of Steiner's work. On Christmas Day, 1912, he became a member of the Anthroposophical Society.\n\nIn 1916, Beckh was drafted into military service, shortly after Sammlung Göschen published two volumes about the Buddha and his teachings. Next stationed in the Balkans, he was called to work in the \"Institut für Weltwirtschaft an der Universität Kiel\" (\"Kiel Institute for the World Economy\"), where he evaluated economic reviews in Scandinavian newspapers. Due to his task, he was permitted to learn the Scandinavian languages in addition to the languages he already knew: English, French, Italian, Classical Greek and Latin, Hebrew, Egyptian, Sanskrit, Tibetan and Old Persian. His civil obligations lasted until the next world war.\n\nDuring that period, he resumed lecturing, but declined a teaching contract for Tibetan philology and went on vacation. He brought his vacation to an abrupt end when he was appointed to the position of \"extraordinary professor\", but ended his academic career in November 1921.\n\nFrom 1920 onwards, he worked as a lecturer of anthroposophy. In March 1922, he joined the \"Gründerkreis\" (circle of priests) of The Christian Community and worked until his death as a priest, seminary teacher, lecturer, independent researcher and writer. In 1928, Beckh's \"Der kosmische Rhythmus im Markusevangelium\" (\"Mark's Gospel: The Cosmic Rhythm\") was published, in which he related the narration of the gospel of Mark to the path of the sun through the twelve zodiacal signs, and mentioned earlier work of Arthur Drews, Eduard Stucken (author of \"Astralmythen der Hebraeer, Babylonier, und Aegypter, Leipzig\", 1896-1907) and Andrzej Niemojewski. In the Introduction to the sequel, \"Der kosmische Rhythmus, das Sternengeheimnis und Erdengeheimnis im Johannesevangelium\" (\"The Cosmic Rhythm, the Secrets of the Stars and Earth in the Gospel of John\") (1930), Beck mentioned favourably Wilhelm Kaiser's \"Die geometrischen Vorstellungen in der Astronomie\" (1928), and referred to \"The Novices of Sais\", of Novalis. The cosmic rhythm in Beckh's exposition, he explained, was for Mark's gospel understood more in connection with the \"earthly\" zodiac of the signs, and for John's gospel more in connection with the \"stellar\" zodiac of the constellations, while, at the time of the beginning of the Christian era, these were coincident.\n\nBeckh died in Stuttgart, in 1937.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14000725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000725", "title": "History of Cuban nationality", "text": "History of Cuban nationality\n\nFor most of its history, Cuba was controlled by foreign powers. The country was a Spanish colony from approximately 1511 until 1898. The United States governed the nation from 1898–1902, and would intervene in national affairs until the abolishment of the Platt Amendment in 1935. The struggle for independence and a national identity was a complex and prolonged affair that began in earnest during the late 18th century and lasted well into the 20th century.\n\nFrom the island's discovery in 1492 to 1750, Spain ruled Cuba from afar, with a Crown-appointed Governor overseeing the colony under the military title of Captain General. Laws approved by the Governor crossed the Atlantic and were then filtered between countless levels of colonial bureaucracy. The administrators tended to compromise with local elites, who were often granted permission to administer justice themselves.\n\nIn the 1630s, Americans were permitted to hold office in Cuba; by 1678, they were allowed to hold judgeships. These positions were quickly filled by wealthy \"criollo\", who often purchased the privilege directly, and operated with reduced Spanish supervision. This led to increased corruption, and drove a wedge between the wealthy and the working-class. In the 1750s, when Spain sought to reassert control in the Americas, these elite positions were greatly weakened, much to the anger of those who had enjoyed the collateral benefits of authority. \n\nIn the early 19th century, Cuban nationalist movement lagged behind its counterparts in the rest of Latin America. Maintaining good relations with Spain was essential for the health of Cuba's primarily agrarian economy, as the island nation was heavily dependent at the time upon exporting its sugar to European markets. Cuba, as one of the last outposts of slavery, also relied on Spain for protection against any potential slave uprisings. As compared to most other Latin American countries at the time, a very large percentage of the Cuban population were Spaniards or their descendants; the native Taíno and Ciboney peoples had mostly disappeared in Cuba early in the colonial period.\n\nNonetheless, during the 19th century, vocal nationalists like Jose Marti inspired Cubans to rebel against their colonizers. Many nationalists saw Spain as incapable of supporting a booming Cuban economy. Cuba made use of new industrial technologies, such as steam engines, well before their large-scale introduction in Spain. Nationalists thus concluded that Cuba was entering a new stage of modernity, while Spain was becoming more and more obsolete, and holding Cuba back from economic and political success.\n\nThe dissatisfaction with Spain's inept administration, their lack of representation in the government, and high taxes sparked the beginning of the 10 years war in which over 200,000 lives were lost. Being crushed by the Spanish army only fueled their nationalism even more. It caused a uniting of all the Cuban people, with an emphasis on former slaves, who were freed shortly after the war. However, when the Cubans rose up again, Spain implemented their policy of Reconcentration. This forced hundreds of thousands of Cubans into labor camps, where they worked and were starved. This furthered their nationalism even more because they couldn't take what was being done to their own people. The stories of the rebels' bravery and nationalism eventually reached the United States, who sent aid which soon became the Spanish–American War. However, the Spanish control of Cuba soon became replaced with a large American influence in Cuba's affairs. Once again Cuban nationalism was an at an all-time high since they had just fought for their own independence, and now they had another country in their affairs.\n\nBetween 1780 and 1867, over 780 000 slaves were brought to Cuba. This was more than all the rest of Spanish America combined. Slavery was leaned upon heavily by the owners of the highly profitable sugar plantations. By 1886, people of colour – the majority being ex-slaves – made up 1/3 of the population of Cuba. The issue of integration was a complex and highly contentious issue. Rights were hard to come by for many former slaves and also for those who lived and worked in rural communities. Emancipation was a slow process that started in 1868 and continued until 1886. As a preliminary step, the Moret Law of 1870 granted freedom to children and those over the age of sixty but offered little else. As the skirmishes continued and losses compounded during the 10 Years’ War, the anti-colonial forces spoke more openly about the idea of a free Cuban citizen. Even though there was still a strong racial divide, many slaves joined up with the revolutionaries. Although this initial rebellion did not force any significant changes, the participation of slaves did not go unnoticed. By the early 1890s, Spain was willing to offer fairly considerable civil rights and voting rights to many former slaves in a vain attempt to weaken another attempt at rebellion. Prior to the 1890s, suffrage had been granted uniquely to taxpayers (it was further expanded in 1895 and again in 1898 when all links between property and suffrage were severed). This back-fired, however, as it only provoked white elites who intensified their criticism directed at colonial policies.\n\nWhile white Cuban elites and their colonial administrators debated civil rights and public policy, black Cubans had already been showing initiative. The first step toward property rights came when farm owners allowed their slaves to own a pig. A pig could grow, accrue value, be sold for profit or consumed. Many people quickly seized upon the potential of this and began raising as many pigs as possible, even feeding them from their own rations to keep them growing. The pigs would then be sold to either the plantation owner or someone else, and a profit would be made. These profits would sometimes parlay into the ownership of a horse, which implied a certain degree of freedom and mobility. Worker mobility was also important in spreading information (concerning revolution, property rights, etc.) to other interested communities.\n\nAfter slavery was phased out by 1888, many former slaves had little choice but to stay on the farms on which they had been prisoners for years. The plantation owners adapted to the situation by incorporating wage labour, tenantry and contract farming. After gaining their freedom, some more fortunate ex-slaves were sold small plots of land where they could build a house and plant crops for their own consumption and for sale at market. According to the Spanish Civil Code, rights of possession were paramount, making a signed and verified agreement very important. In 1890, however, a new civil code (which had been introduced in Spain the year before) came into effect which acknowledged the rights of prescription (squatter’s rights). Granted, these rights were minimally recognized, but still they motivated many landless workers to occupy and cultivate previously unused land.\n\n\nThere was no mass departure of the Spanish middle-class in the years immediately after the end of Spanish rule. They were allowed to maintain their Spanish citizenship and also to hold onto the majority of the elite posts available in business and in the Church. A misguided education system had ill-prepared Cubans from filling positions in expanding industries which were primarily driven by US interests. When the occupation officially ended on May 20, 1902, nationalists could, for the first time, look upon an independent Cuba. Although it was a time of celebration, it would prove to be a difficult transition to complete autonomy and self-definition. The island-nation had always had her national identity threatened and had been under repressive foreign control for centuries. With no real pre-Spanish nationalist mythology to speak of, Cubans would have to quickly try and identify themselves in the modern world. Even with a crisp demarcation of borders and territory, it would not be immediately clear what it meant to be Cuban.\n\n"}
{"id": "265570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265570", "title": "Kinship", "text": "Kinship\n\nIn anthropology, kinship is the web of social relationships that form an important part of the lives of all humans in all societies, although its exact meanings even within this discipline are often debated. Anthropologist Robin Fox states that \"the study of kinship is the study of what man does with these basic facts of lifemating, gestation, parenthood, socialization, siblingship etc.\" Human society is unique, he argues, in that we are \"working with the same raw material as exists in the animal world, but [we] can conceptualize and categorize it to serve social ends.\" These social ends include the socialization of children and the formation of basic economic, political and religious groups.\n\nKinship can refer both to the patterns of social relationships themselves, or it can refer to the study of the patterns of social relationships in one or more human cultures (i.e. kinship studies). Over its history, anthropology has developed a number of related concepts and terms in the study of kinship, such as descent, descent group, lineage, affinity/affine, consanguinity/cognate and fictive kinship. Further, even within these two broad usages of the term, there are different theoretical approaches.\n\nBroadly, kinship patterns may be considered to include people related by both descent – i.e. social relations during development – and by marriage. Human kinship relations through marriage are commonly called \"affinity\" in contrast to the relationships that arise in one's group of origin, which may be called one's descent group. In some cultures, kinship relationships may be considered to extend out to people an individual has economic or political relationships with, or other forms of social connections. Within a culture, some descent groups may be considered to lead back to gods or animal ancestors (totems). This may be conceived of on a more or less literal basis.\n\nKinship can also refer to a principle by which individuals or groups of individuals are organized into social groups, roles, categories and genealogy by means of kinship terminologies. Family relations can be represented concretely (mother, brother, grandfather) or abstractly by degrees of relationship (kinship distance). A relationship may be relative (e.g. a father in relation to a child) or reflect an absolute (e.g. the difference between a mother and a childless woman). Degrees of relationship are not identical to heirship or legal succession. Many codes of ethics consider the bond of kinship as creating obligations between the related persons stronger than those between strangers, as in Confucian filial piety.\n\nIn a more general sense, kinship may refer to a similarity or affinity between entities on the basis of some or all of their characteristics that are under focus. This may be due to a shared ontological origin, a shared historical or cultural connection, or some other perceived shared features that connect the two entities. For example, a person studying the ontological roots of human languages (etymology) might ask whether there is kinship between the English word \"seven\" and the German word \"sieben\". It can be used in a more diffuse sense as in, for example, the news headline \"Madonna feels kinship with vilified Wallis Simpson\", to imply a felt similarity or empathy between two or more entities.\n\nIn biology, \"kinship\" typically refers to the degree of genetic relatedness or coefficient of relationship between individual members of a species (e.g. as in kin selection theory). It may also be used in this specific sense when applied to human relationships, in which case its meaning is closer to consanguinity or genealogy.\n\nFamily is a group of people affiliated by consanguinity (by recognized birth), affinity (by marriage), or co-residence/shared consumption (see Nurture kinship). In most societies it is the principal institution for the socialization of children. As the basic unit for raising children, Anthropologists most generally classify family organization as matrifocal (a mother and her children); conjugal (a husband, his wife, and children; also called nuclear family); avuncular (a brother, his sister, and her children); or extended family in which parents and children co-reside with other members of one parent's family.\n\nHowever, producing children is not the only function of the family; in societies with a sexual division of labor, marriage, and the resulting relationship between two people, it is necessary for the formation of an economically productive household.\n\nDifferent societies classify kinship relations differently and therefore use different systems of kinship terminology – for example some languages distinguish between affinal and consanguine uncles, whereas others\nhave only one word to refer to both a father and his brothers. Kinship terminologies include the terms of address used in different languages or communities for different relatives and the terms of reference used to identify the relationship of these relatives to ego or to each other.\n\nKin terminologies can be either descriptive or classificatory. When a descriptive terminology is used, a term refers to only one specific type of relationship, while a classificatory terminology groups many different types of relationships under one term. For example, the word \"brother\" in English-speaking societies indicates a son of one's same parent; thus, English-speaking societies use the word \"brother\" as a descriptive term referring to this relationship only. In many other classificatory kinship terminologies, in contrast, a person's male first cousin ( whether mother's brother's son, mother's sister's son, father's brother's son, father's sister's son) may also be referred to as brothers.\n\nThe major patterns of kinship systems that are known which Lewis Henry Morgan identified through kinship terminology in his 1871 work \"Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family\" are:\n\nThere is a seventh type of system only identified as distinct later:\n\nThe six types (Crow, Eskimo, Hawaiian, Iroquois, Omaha, Sudanese) that are not fully classificatory (Dravidian, Australian) are those identified by Murdock (1949) prior to Lounsbury's (1964) rediscovery of the linguistic principles of classificatory kin terms.\n\nIn many societies where kinship connections are important, there are rules, though they may be expressed or be taken for granted. There are four main headings that anthropologists use to categorize rules of descent. They are bilateral, unilineal, ambilineal and double descent.\n\nA descent group is a social group whose members talk about common ancestry. A unilineal society is one in which the descent of an individual is reckoned either from the mother's or the father's line of descent. With matrilineal descent individuals belong to their mother's descent group. Matrilineal descent includes the mother's brother, who in some societies may pass along inheritance to the sister's children or succession to a sister's son. With patrilineal descent, individuals belong to their father's descent group. Societies with the Iroquois kinship system, are typically uniliineal, while the Iroquois proper are specifically matrilineal.\n\nIn a society which reckons descent bilaterally (bilineal), descent is reckoned through both father and mother, without unilineal descent groups. Societies with the Eskimo kinship system, like the Inuit, Yupik, and most Western societies, are typically bilateral. The egocentric kindred group is also typical of bilateral societies.\n\nSome societies reckon descent patrilineally for some purposes, and matrilineally for others. This arrangement is sometimes called double descent. For instance, certain property and titles may be inherited through the male line, and others through the female line.\n\nSocieties can also consider descent to be ambilineal (such as Hawaiian kinship) where offspring determine their lineage through the matrilineal line or the patrilineal line.\n\nA lineage is a unilineal descent group that can demonstrate their common descent from a known apical ancestor. Unilineal lineages can be matrilineal or patrilineal, depending on whether they are traced through mothers or fathers, respectively. Whether matrilineal or patrilineal descent is considered most significant differs from culture to culture.\n\nA clan is generally a descent group claiming common descent from an apical ancestor. Often, the details of parentage are not important elements of the clan tradition. Non-human apical ancestors are called totems. Examples of clans are found in Chechen, Chinese, Irish, Japanese, Polish, Scottish, Tlingit, and Somali societies.\n\nA phratry is a descent group composed of two or more clans each of whose apical ancestors are descended from a further common ancestor.\n\nIf a society is divided into exactly two descent groups, each is called a moiety, after the French word for \"half\". If the two halves are each obliged to marry out, and into the other, these are called matrimonial moieties. Houseman and White (1998b, bibliography) have discovered numerous societies where kinship network analysis shows that two halves marry one another, similar to matrimonial moieties, except that the two halves—which they call matrimonial \"sides\"—are neither named nor descent groups, although the egocentric kinship terms may be consistent with the pattern of sidedness, whereas the sidedness is culturally evident but imperfect.\n\nThe word \"deme\" refers to an endogamous local population that does not have unilineal descent. Thus, a deme is a local endogamous community without internal segmentation into clans.\n\nIn some societies kinship and political relations are organized around membership in corporately organized dwellings rather than around descent groups or lineages, as in the \"House of Windsor\". The concept of a house society was originally proposed by Claude Lévi-Strauss who called them \"sociétés a maison\". The concept has been applied to understand the organization of societies from Mesoamerica and the Moluccas to North Africa and medieval Europe. Lévi-Strauss introduced the concept as an alternative to 'corporate kinship group' among the cognatic kinship groups of the Pacific region. The socially significant groupings within these societies have variable membership because kinship is reckoned bilaterally (through both father's and mother's kin) and come together for only short periods. Property, genealogy and residence are not the basis for the group's existence.\n\nMarriage is a socially or ritually recognized union or legal contract between spouses that establishes rights and obligations between them, between them and their children, and between them and their in-laws. The definition of marriage varies according to different cultures, but it is principally an institution in which interpersonal relationships, usually intimate and sexual, are acknowledged. When defined broadly, marriage is considered a cultural universal. A broad definition of marriage includes those that are monogamous, polygamous, same-sex and temporary.\n\nThe act of marriage usually creates normative or legal obligations between the individuals involved, and any offspring they may produce. Marriage may result, for example, in \"a union between a man and a woman such that children born to the woman are the recognized legitimate offspring of both partners.\" Edmund Leach argued that no one definition of marriage applied to all cultures, but offered a list of ten rights frequently associated with marriage, including sexual monopoly and rights with respect to children (with specific rights differing across cultures).\n\nThere is wide cross-cultural variation in the social rules governing the selection of a partner for marriage. In many societies the choice of partner is limited to suitable persons from specific social groups. In some societies the rule is that a partner is selected from an individual's own social group – endogamy, this is the case in many class and caste based societies. But in other societies a partner must be chosen from a different group than one's own – exogamy, this is the case in many societies practicing totemic religion where society is divided into several exogamous totemic clans, such as most Aboriginal Australian societies. Marriages between parents and children, or between full siblings, with few exceptions, have been considered incest and forbidden. However, marriages between more distant relatives have been much more common, with one estimate being that 80% of all marriages in history have been between second cousins or closer.\n\nSystemic forms of preferential marriage may have wider social implications in terms of economic and political organization. In a wide array of lineage-based societies with a classificatory kinship system, potential spouses are sought from a specific class of relative as determined by a prescriptive marriage rule. Insofar as regular marriages following prescriptive rules occur, lineages are linked together in fixed relationships; these ties between lineages may form political alliances in kinship dominated societies. French structural anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss developed alliance theory to account for the \"elementary\" kinship structures created by the limited number of prescriptive marriage rules possible.\n\nClaude Lévi-Strauss argued in \"The Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949), that the incest taboo necessitated the exchange of women between kinship groups. Levi-Strauss thus shifted the emphasis from descent groups to the stable \"structures\" or relations between groups that preferential and prescriptive marriage rules created.\n\nOne of the foundational works in the anthropological study of kinship was Morgan's \"Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family\" (1871). As is the case with other social sciences, Anthropology and kinship studies emerged at a time when the understanding of the Human species' comparative place in the world was somewhat different from today's. Evidence that life in stable social groups is not just a feature of humans, but also of many other primates, was yet to emerge and society was considered to be a uniquely human affair. As a result, early kinship theorists saw an apparent need to explain not only the details of \"how\" human social groups are constructed, their patterns, meanings and obligations, but also \"why\" they are constructed at all. The \"why\" explanations thus typically presented the fact of life in social groups (\"which appeared to be unique to humans\") as being largely a result of human ideas and values.\n\nMorgan's explanation for why humans live in groups was largely based on the notion that all humans have an inherent \"natural valuation\" of genealogical ties (an unexamined assumption that would remain at the heart of kinship studies for another century, see below), and therefore also an inherent desire to construct social groups around these ties. Even so, Morgan found that members of a society who are \"not\" close genealogical relatives may nevertheless use what he called \"kinship terms\" (which he considered to be originally based on genealogical ties). This fact was already evident in his use of the term \"affinity\" within his concept of the \"system of kinship\". The most lasting of Morgan's contributions was his discovery of the difference between descriptive and classificatory kinship terms, which situated broad kinship classes on the basis of imputing abstract social patterns of relationships having little or no overall relation to genetic closeness but instead cognition about kinship, social distinctions as they affect linguistic usages in kinship terminology, and strongly relate, if only by approximation, to patterns of marriage.\n\nA more flexible view of kinship was formulated in British social anthropology. Among the attempts to break out of universalizing assumptions and theories about kinship, Radcliffe-Brown (1922, The Andaman Islands; 1930, The social organization of Australian tribes) was the first to assert that kinship relations are best thought of as concrete networks of relationships among individuals. He then described these relationships, however, as typified by interlocking interpersonal roles. Malinowski (1922, Argonauts of the Western Pacific) described patterns of events with concrete individuals as participants stressing the relative stability of institutions and communities, but without insisting on abstract systems or models of kinship. Gluckman (1955, The judicial process among the Barotse of Northern Rhodesia) balanced the emphasis on stability of institutions against processes of change and conflict, inferred through detailed analysis of instances of social interaction to infer rules and assumptions. John Barnes, Victor Turner, and others, affiliated with Gluckman's Manchester school of anthropology, described patterns of actual network relations in communities and fluid situations in urban or migratory context, as with the work of J. Clyde Mitchell (1965, Social Networks in Urban Situations). Yet, all these approaches clung to a view of stable functionalism, with kinship as one of the central stable institutions.\n\nThe concept of “system of kinship” tended to dominate anthropological studies of kinship in the early 20th century. Kinship systems as defined in anthropological texts and ethnographies were seen as constituted by patterns of behavior and attitudes in relation to the differences in terminology, listed above, for referring to relationships as well as for addressing others. Many anthropologists went so far as to see, in these patterns of kinship, strong relations between kinship categories and patterns of marriage, including forms of marriage, restrictions on marriage, and cultural concepts of the boundaries of incest. A great deal of inference was necessarily involved in such constructions as to “systems” of kinship, and attempts to construct systemic patterns and reconstruct kinship evolutionary histories on these bases were largely invalidated in later work. However, anthropologist Dwight Read later argued that the way in which kinship categories are defined by individual researchers are substantially inconsistent. This occurs when working within a systemic cultural model that can be elicited in fieldwork, but also allowing considerable individual variability in details, such as when they are recorded through relative products.\n\nIn trying to resolve the problems of dubious inferences about kinship \"systems\", George P. Murdock (1949, Social Structure) compiled kinship data to test a theory about universals in human kinship in the way that terminologies were influenced by the behavioral similarities or social differences among pairs of kin, proceeding on the view that the psychological ordering of kinship systems radiates out from ego and the nuclear family to different forms of extended family. Lévi-Strauss (1949, Les Structures Elementaires), on the other hand, also looked for global patterns to kinship, but viewed the “elementary” forms of kinship as lying in the ways that families were connected by marriage in different fundamental forms resembling those of modes of exchange: symmetric and direct, reciprocal delay, or generalized exchange.\n\nBuilding on Lévi-Strauss's (1949) notions of kinship as caught up with the fluid languages of exchange, Edmund Leach (1961, Pul Eliya) argued that kinship was a flexible idiom that had something of the grammar of a language, both in the uses of terms for kin but also in the fluidities of language, meaning, and networks. His field studies criticized the ideas of structural-functional stability of kinship groups as corporations with charters that lasted long beyond the lifetimes of individuals, which had been the orthodoxy of British Social Anthropology. This sparked debates over whether kinship could be resolved into specific organized sets of rules and components of meaning, or whether kinship meanings were more fluid, symbolic, and independent of grounding in supposedly determinate relations among individuals or groups, such as those of descent or prescriptions for marriage.\n\nFrom the 1950s onwards, reports on kinship patterns in the New Guinea Highlands added some momentum to what had until then been only occasional fleeting suggestions that living together (co-residence) might underlie social bonding, and eventually contributed to the general shift away from a genealogical approach (see below section). For example, on the basis of his observations, Barnes suggested:\n\nSimilarly, Langness' ethnography of the \"Bena Bena\" also emphasized the primacy of residence patterns in 'creating' kinship ties:\nIn 1972 David M. Schneider raised deep problems with the notion that human social bonds and 'kinship' was a natural category built upon genealogical ties and made a fuller argument in his 1984 book \"A critique of the study of Kinship\" which had a major influence on the subsequent study of kinship.\n\nBefore the questions raised within anthropology about the study of 'kinship' by David M. Schneider and others from the 1960s onwards, anthropology itself had paid very little attention to the notion that kinship bonds were anything other than connected to consanguineal (or genealogical) relatedness (or its local cultural conceptions). Schneider's 1968 study of the symbolic meanings surrounding ideas of kinship in American Culture found that Americans ascribe a special significance to 'blood ties' as well as related symbols like the naturalness of marriage and raising children within this culture. In later work (1972 and 1984) Schneider argued that unexamined genealogical notions of kinship had been embedded in anthropology since Morgan's early work because American anthropologists (and anthropologists in western Europe) had made the mistake of assuming these \"particular cultural values\" of 'blood is thicker than water', common in their own societies, were 'natural' and universal for all human cultures (i.e. a form of ethnocentrism). He concluded that, due to these unexamined assumptions, the whole enterprise of 'kinship' in anthropology may have been built on faulty foundations. His 1984 book \"A Critique of The Study of Kinship\" gave his fullest account of this critique.\n\nSchneider himself emphasised a distinction between the notion of a social relationship as intrinsically \"given\" and inalienable (\"from birth\"), and a social relationship as created, constituted and maintained by a process of interaction, or \"doing\" (Schneider 1984, 165). Schneider used the example of the citamangen / fak relationship in Yap society, that his own early research had previously glossed over as a \"father / son\" relationship, to illustrate the problem;\n\nSchneider preferred to focus on these often ignored processes of \"performance, forms of doing, various codes for conduct, different roles\" (p. 72) as the most important constituents of kinship. His critique quickly prompted a new generation of anthropologists to reconsider how they conceptualized, observed and described social relationships ('kinship') in the cultures they studied.\n\nSchneider's critique is widely acknowledged to have marked a turning point in anthropology's study of social relationships and interactions. Some anthropologists moved forward with kinship studies by teasing apart biological and social aspects, prompted by Schneider's question;\n\nSchneider also dismissed the sociobiological account of biological influences, maintaining that these did not fit the ethnographic evidence (see more below). Janet Carsten employed her studies with the Malays to reassess kinship. She uses the idea of \"relatedness\" to move away from a pre-constructed analytic opposition between the biological and the social. Carsten argued that relatedness should be described in terms of indigenous statements and practices, some of which fall outside what anthropologists have conventionally understood as kinship;\n\nPhilip Thomas' work with the Temanambondro of Madagascar highlights that nurturing processes are considered to be the 'basis' for kinship ties in this culture, notwithstanding genealogical connections;\n\nSimilar ethnographic accounts have emerged from a variety of cultures since Schneider's intervention. The concept of nurture kinship highlights the extent to which kinship relationships may be brought into being through the performance of various acts of nurture between individuals. Additionally the concept highlights ethnographic findings that, in a wide swath of human societies, people understand, conceptualize and symbolize their relationships predominantly in terms of giving, receiving and sharing nurture. These approaches were somewhat forerun by Malinowski, in his ethnographic study of sexual behaviour on the Trobriand Islands which noted that the Trobrianders did not believe pregnancy to be the result of sexual intercourse between the man and the woman, and they denied that there was any physiological relationship between father and child. Nevertheless, while paternity was unknown in the \"full biological sense\", for a woman to have a child without having a husband was considered socially undesirable. Fatherhood was therefore recognised as a social and nurturing role; the woman's husband is the \"man whose role and duty it is to take the child in his arms and to help her in nursing and bringing it up\"; \"Thus, though the natives are ignorant of any physiological need for a male in the constitution of the family, they regard him as indispensable socially\".\n\nLike Schneider, other anthropologists of kinship have largely rejected sociobiological accounts of human social patterns as being both reductionistic and also empirically incompatible with ethnographic data on human kinship. Notably, Marshall Sahlins strongly critiqued the sociobiological approach through reviews of ethnographies in his 1976 \"The Use and Abuse of Biology\" noting that for humans \"the categories of 'near' and 'distant' [kin] vary independently of consanguinal distance and that these categories organize actual social practice\" (p. 112).\nIndependently from anthropology, biologists studying organisms' social behaviours and relationships have been interested to understand under what conditions significant social behaviors can evolve to become a typical feature of a species (see inclusive fitness theory). Because complex social relationships and cohesive social groups are common not only to humans, but also to most primates, biologists maintain that these biological theories of sociality should in principle be generally applicable. The more challenging question arises as to how such ideas can be applied to the human species whilst fully taking account of the extensive ethnographic evidence that has emerged from anthropological research on kinship patterns.\n\nEarly developments of biological inclusive fitness theory and the derivative field of Sociobiology, encouraged some sociobiologists and evolutionary psychologists to approach human kinship with the assumption that inclusive fitness theory predicts that kinship relations in humans \"are indeed\" expected to depend on genetic relatedness, which they readily connected with the \"genealogy\" approach of early anthropologists such as Morgan (see above sections). However, this is the position that Schneider, Sahlins and other anthropologists explicitly reject.\n\nIn agreement with Schneider, Holland argued that an accurate account of biological theory and evidence supports the view that social bonds (and kinship) are indeed mediated by a shared social environment and processes of frequent interaction, care and nurture, rather than by genealogical relationships \"per se\" (even if genealogical relationships frequently correlate with such processes). In his 2012 book \"Social bonding and nurture kinship\" Holland argues that sociobiologists and later evolutionary psychologists misrepresent biological theory, mistakenly believing that inclusive fitness theory predicts that genetic relatedness \"per se\" is the condition that \"mediates\" social bonding and social cooperation in organisms. Holland points out that the biological theory (see inclusive fitness) only specifies that a statistical relationship between social behaviors and genealogical relatedness is a criterion for the \"evolution\" of social behaviors. The theory's originator, W.D.Hamilton considered that organisms' social behaviours were likely to be mediated by general conditions that typically \"correlate\" with genetic relatedness, but are not likely to be mediated by genetic relatedness \"per se\" (see Human inclusive fitness and Kin recognition). Holland reviews fieldwork from social mammals and primates to show that social bonding and cooperation in these species is indeed mediated through processes of shared living context, familiarity and attachments, not by genetic relatedness \"per se\". Holland thus argues that both the biological \"theory\" and the biological \"evidence\" is nondeterministic and nonreductive, and that biology as a theoretical and empirical endeavor (as opposed to 'biology' as a cultural-symbolic nexus as outlined in Schneider's 1968 book) actually supports the \"nurture kinship\" perspective of cultural anthropologists working post-Schneider (see above sections). Holland argues that, whilst there is nonreductive compatibility around human kinship between anthropology, biology and psychology, for a full account of kinship in any \"particular\" human culture, ethnographic methods, including accounts of the people themselves, the analysis of historical contingencies, symbolic systems, economic and other cultural influences, remain centrally important.\n\nHolland's position is widely supported by both cultural anthropologists and biologists as an approach which, according to Robin Fox, \"gets to the heart of the matter concerning the contentious relationship between kinship categories, genetic relatedness and the prediction of behavior\".\n\nThe other approach, that of Evolutionary psychology, continues to take the view that genetic relatedness (or genealogy) is key to understanding human kinship patterns. In contrast to Sahlin's position (above), Daly and Wilson argue that \"the categories of 'near' and 'distant' do not 'vary independently of consanguinal distance', not in any society on earth.\" (Daly et al. 1997, p282). A current view is that humans have an inborn but culturally affected system for detecting certain forms of genetic relatedness. One important factor for sibling detection, especially relevant for older siblings, is that if an infant and one's mother are seen to care for the infant, then the infant and oneself are assumed to be related. Another factor, especially important for younger siblings who cannot use the first method, is that persons who grew up together see one another as related. Yet another may be genetic detection based on the major histocompatibility complex (See Major Histocompatibility Complex and Sexual Selection). This kinship detection system in turn affects other genetic predispositions such as the incest taboo and a tendency for altruism towards relatives.\n\nOne issue within this approach is why many societies organize according to descent (see below) and not exclusively according to kinship. An explanation is that kinship does not form clear boundaries and is centered differently for each individual. In contrast, descent groups usually do form clear boundaries and provide an easy way to create cooperative groups of various sizes.\n\nAccording to an evolutionary psychology hypothesis that assumes that descent systems are optimized to assure high genetic probability of relatedness between lineage members, males should prefer a patrilineal system if paternal certainty is high; males should prefer a matrilineal system if paternal certainty is low. Some research supports this association with one study finding no patrilineal society with low paternity confidence and no matrilineal society with high paternal certainty. Another association is that pastoral societies are relatively more often patrilineal compared to horticultural societies. This may be because wealth in pastoral societies in the form of mobile cattle can easily be used to pay bride price which favor concentrating resources on sons so they can marry.\n\nThe evolutionary psychology account of biology continues to be rejected by most cultural anthropologists.\n\nAs social and biological concepts of parenthood are not necessarily coterminous, the terms \"pater\" and \"genitor\" have been used in anthropology to distinguish between the man who is socially recognised as father (pater) and the man who is believed to be the physiological parent (genitor); similarly the terms \"mater\" and \"genitrix\" have been used to distinguish between the woman socially recognised as mother (mater) and the woman believed to be the physiological parent (genitrix). Such a distinction is useful when the individual who is considered the legal parent of the child is not the individual who is believed to be the child's biological parent. For example, in his ethnography of the Nuer, Evans-Pritchard notes that if a widow, following the death of her husband, chooses to live with a lover outside of her deceased husband's kin group, that lover is only considered genitor of any subsequent children the widow has, and her deceased husband continues to be considered the pater. As a result, the lover has no legal control over the children, who may be taken away from him by the kin of the pater when they choose. The terms \"pater\" and \"genitor\" have also been used to help describe the relationship between children and their parents in the context of divorce in Britain. Following the divorce and remarriage of their parents, children find themselves using the term \"mother\" or \"father\" in relation to more than one individual, and the pater or mater who is legally responsible for the child's care, and whose family name the child uses, may not be the genitor or genitrix of the child, with whom a separate parent-child relationship may be maintained through arrangements such as visitation rights or joint custody.\n\nIt is important to note that the terms \"genitor\" or \"genetrix\" do not necessarily imply actual biological relationships based on consanguinity, but rather refer to the socially held belief that the individual is physically related to the child, derived from culturally held ideas about how biology works. So, for example, the Ifugao may believe that an illegitimate child might have more than one physical father, and so nominate more than one genitor. J.A. Barnes therefore argued that it was necessary to make a further distinction between genitor and genitrix (the supposed biological mother and father of the child), and the actual genetic father and mother of the child.\n\nThe study of kinship may be abstracted to binary relations between people. For example, if \"x\" is the parent of \"y\", the relation may be symbolized as xPy. The converse relation, that \"y\" is the child of \"x\", is written yPx. Suppose that \"z\" is another child of \"x\": zPy. Then \"x\" is a sibling of \"z\" as they share the parent \"y\": formula_1 Here the relation of siblings is expressed as the composition PP of the parent relation with its inverse.\n\nThe relation of grandparent is the composition of parent (P) with itself. The relation of uncle is the composition of parent with brother, while the relation of aunt composes parent with sister. Suppose \"x\" is the grandparent of \"y\": xGy. Then \"y\" and \"z\" are cousins if formula_2\n\nThe symbols applied here to express kinship are used more generally in algebraic logic to develop a calculus of relations with sets other than human beings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27235130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27235130", "title": "Kirikane", "text": "Kirikane\n\nKirikane was imported from China during the Tang dynasty(618–907). The oldest examples is Tamamushino Zushi at Horyuji Temple. Kirikane flourished primarily in the 11th century and continued until the 13th or 14th century. After that, however, Kirikane almost disappeared, due to the overall decline of Buddhist art. \n\n1) Two pieces of leaf (gold or silver, platinum) are heated over an ash-banked fire and bonded together. An additional bonding is then done to further strengthen the leaf and add thickness.\n\n2) The bonded leaf is cut with bamboo knife on a deer-skin-covered table.\n\n3) The bonded leaf is affixed with glue(seaweed glue, funori and hide glue, nikawa) to the object to be decorated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1938450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938450", "title": "Köçek", "text": "Köçek\n\nThe köçek (plural \"köçekler\" in Turkish) was typically a very handsome young male \"rakkas\", or dancer, who usually cross-dressed in feminine attire, and was employed as an entertainer.\n\nThe Turkish word is derived from the Persian word \"kuchak\", meaning \"little\", \"small\", or \"young\", which itself is the Persian pronunciation of the Turkish word \"küçük\", \"little\". In the Crimean Tatar language, the word \"köçek\" means \"baby camel\".\n\nThe culture of the köçek, which flourished from the 17th to the 19th century, had its origin in the customs in Ottoman palaces, and in particular in the harems. Its genres enriched both the music and the dance of the Ottomans.\n\nThe support of the Sultans was a key factor in its development, as the early stages of the art form was confined to palace circles. From there the practice dispersed throughout the Empire by means of independent troupes.\n\nA köçek would begin training around the age of seven or eight and would be considered accomplished after about six years of study and practice. A dancer's career would last as long as he was beardless and retained his youthful appearance.\n\nThey were recruited from among the ranks of the non-Muslim subject nations of the empire, such as Jews, Romani, Greeks, Albanians, Armenians and others. The dances, collectively known as \"köçek oyunu\", blended Arab, Greek, Assyrian and Kurdish elements (Karsilamas dance and Kaşık Havası dance). They were performed to a particular genre of music known as \"köçekçe\", which was performed in the form of suites in a given melody. It too was a mix of Sufi, Balkan and classical Anatolian influences, some of which survives in popular Turkish music today. The accompaniment included various percussion instruments, such as the \"davul-köçek\", the davul being a large drum, one side covered with goat skin and the other in sheep skin, producing different tones. A köçek's skill would be judged not only on his dancing abilities but also on his proficiency with percussion instruments, especially a type of castagnette known as the \"çarpare\". The dancers were accompanied by an orchestra, featuring four to five each \"kaba kemençe\" and \"laouto\" as principal instruments, used exclusively for köçek suites. There were also two singers. A köçek dance in the Ottoman seraglio (palace harem) involved one or two dozen köçeks and many musicians. The occasions of their performances were wedding or circumcision celebrations, feasts and festivals, as well as the pleasure of the sultans and the aristocracy.\nThe youths, often wearing heavy makeup, would curl their hair and wear it in long tresses under a small black or red velvet hat decorated with coins, jewels and gold. Their usual garb consisted of a tiny red embroidered velvet jacket with a gold-embroidered silk shirt, \"shalvar\" (baggy trousers), a long skirt and a gilt belt, knotted at the back. They were said to be \"sensuous, attractive, effeminate\", and their dancing \"sexually provocative\". Dancers minced and gyrated their hips in slow vertical and horizontal figure eights, rhythmically snapping their fingers and making suggestive gestures. Often acrobatics, tumbling and mock wrestling were part of the act. The köçeks were available sexually, often to the highest bidder, in the passive role.\n\nFamous poets, such as Fazyl bin Tahir Enderuni, wrote poems, and classical composers, such as the court musician Hammamizade İsmail Dede Efendi (1778–1846), composed köçekces for celebrated köçeks. Many Istanbul meyhanes (nighttime taverns serving meze, raki or wine) hired köçeks. Before starting their performance, the köçek danced among the spectators, to make them more excited. In the audience, competition for their attention often caused commotions and altercations. Men would go wild, breaking their glasses, shouting themselves voiceless, or fighting and sometimes killing each other vying for the boys' sexual favors. This resulted in suppression of the practice under Sultan Abd-ul-Mejid I.\n\nAs of 1805, there were approximately 600 Köçek dancers working in the taverns of the Turkish capital. They were outlawed in 1837 due to fighting among audience members over the dancers. With the suppression of harem culture under Sultan 'Abdu'l-'Aziz (1861–1876) and Sultan Abdul Hamid II (1876–1908), köçek dance and music lost the support of its imperial patrons and gradually disappeared.\n\nKöçeks were much more sought after than the Çengi (\"belly dancers\"), their female counterparts. Some youths were known to have been killed by the Çengi, who were extremely jealous of men's attention toward the boys.\n\nA modern interpretation is the movie \"Köçek\" (1975) by director Nejat Saydam. The movie follows the life of Caniko, an androgynous Gypsy, who struggles with his gender identity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2502780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2502780", "title": "Liberty Displaying the Arts and Sciences", "text": "Liberty Displaying the Arts and Sciences\n\nLiberty Displaying the Arts and Sciences (1792) is an oil-on-canvas painting by American artist Samuel Jennings.\n\nThe Library Company of Philadelphia, a private lending library founded by Benjamin Franklin in the mid-18th century, commissioned Jennings (an ex-Philadelphian relocated to London) to create a work depicting \"the figure of Liberty (with her cap and proper Insignia) displaying the arts\" as a representation of slavery and a symbol of the abolitionist movement.\n\nJennings's painting shows a blond, white Goddess of Liberty (with a liberty cap on a pike or spear) presenting books (the catalog of the Library Company, and two others, labeled \"philosophy\" and \"agriculture\") to three grateful, supplicant blacks (freed slaves). Surrounding the four figures, in the foreground, are various symbols of knowledge and learning: a bust, a scroll (labeled \"geometry\"), papers and columns (architecture); a globe (geography), a lyre and sheet music (music), and a paper with escutcheons on it (history and heraldry). In the background, former slaves are dancing and celebrating around a liberty pole; behind them are ships on a body of water.\n\nThe work is the earliest American painting extant celebrating emancipation.\n\n"}
{"id": "30010979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30010979", "title": "List of time capsules", "text": "List of time capsules\n\nThis is a list of time capsules. The International Time Capsule Society estimates there are between 10,000 and 15,000 time capsules worldwide.\n\nOn 29 September 1896, when the Perth Observatory foundation was laid, the occasion was attended by Sir John Forrest and other notable dignitaries. Several items of importance were placed in a 'leaden box', sealed and deposited in a cavity beneath the foundation stone. The local press reported the event and mentioned here since \"Röntgen rays tubes, and a description of the process, together with specimen photographs\", donated by X-ray pioneer William John Hancock were included in the cache.\nThis is the first known instance of a time capsule in Western Australia, and in Australia.\n\nAlso in Western Australia, in celebration of the laying of the foundation stone of the Northam Railway Institute on 28 July 1897, laid by Mrs. Ann Throssell, the wife of the Commissioner of Crown Lands and local MP George Throssell, a bottle containing two copies of the \"Northam Advertiser\" newspaper and several coins was laid in a cavity beneath the foundation stone.\n\nIn celebration of its golden jubilee, Epping Boys High School of Sydney buried a time capsule in the foyer of its library, in 2007, to be unearthed in the centenary year. A previous time capsule was buried in 1982 to celebrate the silver jubilee. The town of Cowra in central Western New South Wales contained a time capsule which was buried near a sculpture of an eagle in the park not far from the town's information center. The capsule was opened in the year 2000 on an unspecified date, although the sculpture remains, there is no mention of the time capsule once buried there. \n\nA time capsule is also located at Nailsworth Primary School in South Australia, being planted in 2001 to be opened in 2025, this capsule was planted to replace the 1977 capsule opened the same year. A time capsule is also present on the grounds of Melbourne High school in Victoria.\n\nA time capsule on Canberra's City Hill was unveiled on 11 March 2013 to commemorate the city's centenary. It is to be unsealed in 2113.\n\nOn February 22, 2018, the Sunshine Coast Council concluded its celebration of the 50th Anniversary of the Naming of the Sunshine Coast by burying a historic time capsule. The capsule contains a number of reports, documents, and objects from the year previous, and a letter from Mayor Mark Jamieson and 2017 Young Citizen of the Year, Jak Hardy, who was appointed its guardian through to 2067.\n\n\nIn celebration of its 150th corporate anniversary, Bacardi Limited installed a 1.82m x 0.30m stainless steel time capsule, encased in a granite cap and cement pedestal, in front of the Bacardi worldwide headquarters in Bermuda. The capsule was placed in December 2012 and is intended to be opened in 2062, at the company's 200th anniversary.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDates of opening of already opened capsules.\nScheduled opening dates for already installed capsules.\n"}
{"id": "755291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755291", "title": "Lock ring", "text": "Lock ring\n\nA lock ring is the name given by archaeologists to a type of jewellery from Bronze Age Europe.\n\nThey are made from gold or bronze and are penannular, providing a slot that is thought to have been used for attaching them as earrings or as hair ornaments. Ireland was a centre of production in the British Isles though rings were made and used across the continent, notably by the Unetice culture of Central Europe.\n\nThe technology at the time used a slot in the metal to lock the ring to a jewel. Other features included a decorated face plate and a triangular cross-section. Lock rings have been found in modern-day Ireland, France, and Great Britain. Gold was used for the majority of lock rings that have been found, though other artifacts constructed out of bronze, or clay, gold and bronze composite have been found.\n"}
{"id": "45010238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45010238", "title": "Manspreading", "text": "Manspreading\n\nManspreading or man-sitting or ballrooming is the practice of men sitting in public transport with legs wide apart, thereby covering more than one seat. Both this posture and the use of the neologism \"manspreading\" have occasioned some internet criticism and debates in the US, UK, Turkey, and Canada. The public debate began when an anti-manspreading campaign started on the social media website Tumblr in 2013; the term appeared a year later. OxfordDictionaries.com added the word \"manspreading\" in August 2015.\nUse of the term has been criticized as \"a caricature of feminism\" and the practice has been juxtaposed with examples of women taking up excessive space in public spaces with bags.\n\nThe Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) in the New York metropolitan area and Sound Transit of Seattle instituted poster campaigns encouraging respectful posture when other passengers have to stand due to crowding on buses and trains. Transport officials in Philadelphia, Chicago and Washington D.C. have not noted complaints against manspreading in particular. A representative of the Toronto Transit Commission stated they were unaware of complaints against manspreading, but did cite complaints against other etiquette problems, including taking up extra seats with handbags. The MTA campaign, which criticised many behaviors such as leaning on poles and applying make-up, used the slogan \"Dude, stop the spread please!\" Since 2017 taking more than one seat is forbidden by Madrid Municipal Transport Company. In some cases, people who find manspreading offensive have taken to photographing manspreading, and posting those images on the Internet.\n\nThe criticism and campaigns against manspreading have been counter-criticized for not addressing similar behavior by women, such as taking up adjacent seats with bags, or \"she-bagging.\" The controversy surrounding manspreading has been described by equity feminist Cathy Young as \"pseudo feminism – preoccupied with male misbehavior, no matter how trivial.\" Twitter-campaigns with the hashtag #manspreading have also been accompanied by hashtags like #shebagging. The practice of posting pictures of manspreading taken on subways, buses, and other modes of transportation online has been described as a form of public shaming. As an example, in New York, actor Tom Hanks was photographed on the subway, taking up two seats and criticized for it. He responded on a talk show, \"Hey Internet, you idiot! The train was half empty! It was scattered – there was plenty of room!\"\n\nThe Canadian Association for Equality (CAFE), a Canadian men's rights group, has been critical of campaigns against manspreading by transit authorities. The CAFE has argued that it is \"physically painful for men to close their legs\" and that campaigns against manspreading is comparable to \"[forcing] women to stop breast feeding on busses (sic) or trains...\". Commentators in media have made similar arguments regarding the need for men to spread their legs to properly accommodate their testicles.\n\nIn 2016 the word appeared on Lake Superior State University's list of \"banished\" words and phrases.\n\nSitting more expansively may signal dominance and sexual attractiveness for males. Tanya Vacharkulksemsuk, a UC Berkeley post-doctorate researcher recently published studies that found spreading out legs and arms is more sexually attractive when males do it. Using photographs, she found that images of men spreading out got 87% of interest among female viewers. Expansive poses were not as effective for women, who appeared \"vulnerable\" and \"starfish-like\" according to other researchers. On the other hand, some analysts have found that women sitting cross-legged may be perceived positively as an expression of femininity. The opposite seating posture to manspreading, leg-crossing, is often viewed as effeminate.\n\n"}
{"id": "41944828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41944828", "title": "Marco La Piana", "text": "Marco La Piana\n\nMarco La Piana (1883–1958) was an Italian scholar of Arbëresh origin. La Piana gave his contribute through his studies on Albanian language and Arbëresh dialects.\n\nLa Piana was born in Piana degli Albanesi () near Palermo in Sicily. He is the author of a number of studies in Albanian philology, including \"Il catechismo albanese di Luca Matranga, 1592, da un manoscritto Vaticano (The Albanian Catechism of Lekë Matrënga, 1592, from a Vatican Manuscript)\", Grottaferrata 1912, \"Prolegomeni allo studio della linguistica albanese (Introduction to the Study of Albanian Linguistics)\", Palermo 1939, and \"Studi linguistici albanesi: i dialetti siculo-albanesi (Albanian Linguistic Studies: The Albanian Dialects of Sicily)\", Palermo 1949.\n\n"}
{"id": "7304677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7304677", "title": "Neil Gaiman bibliography", "text": "Neil Gaiman bibliography\n\nThis is a list of works by Neil Gaiman.\n\nTitles published by various British publishers include:\n\nTitles published by DC Comics and its Vertigo imprint include:\n\nTitles published by various American publishers include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(Citation information taken from WorldCat.)\n\"Neverwhere\"(2012) read by Neil Gaiman Isis Audio books\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33822624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33822624", "title": "New Ways of Analyzing Variation Asia-Pacific", "text": "New Ways of Analyzing Variation Asia-Pacific\n\nNew Ways of Analyzing Variation Asia-Pacific (NWAV Asia-Pacific) is an annual academic conference in sociolinguistics and the first sister conference of New Ways of Analyzing Variation. NWAV Asia-Pacific focuses on research based on empirical data with an emphasis on quantitative analysis of variation and change across the Asia-Pacific region, including speech communities, multilingualism, urbanization and migration, sociophonetics, style-shifting, language contact, variation in minority languages, dialect variation and change, dialect contact, variation in acquisition, language change across the lifespan, perceptual dialectology, and other related topics such as technological resources for sociolinguistic research. The first NWAV Asia-Pacific conference was held at University of Delhi, India in February, 2011, which included an inaugural conference address by William Labov. NWAV Asia-Pacific 2 was held in Tokyo in August 2012 at the National Institute for Japanese Language and Linguistics. NWAV Asia-Pacific 3, hosted by Victoria University of Wellington, took place 1-3 May 2014 in New Zealand. The fourth conference in the series, NWAV Asia-Pacific 4, was held at National Chung Cheng University in Chiayi, Taiwan, in April 2016, featuring invited presenters William Labov, Gillian Sankoff, James Myers, Dennis Preston, Miriam Meyerhoff, Daming Xu and Jingwei Zhang. NWAV-AP5 will be held in Brisbane, Australia in 2018.\n\nThe NWAV Asia/Pacific conference series has also led to the founding of a new peer-reviewed journal focused on language variation and change in this region:\nAsia-Pacific Language Variation (Benjamins Publishing).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8068558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8068558", "title": "Organic work", "text": "Organic work\n\nOrganic work () was a term adopted from Herbert Spencer by the 19th century Polish positivists, denoting an ideology demanding that the vital powers of the nation be spent on labour (i.e. work at the foundations) rather than fruitless national uprisings against the overwhelming military presence of the neighbouring empires. The basic principles of the organic work included education of the masses and increase of the economical potential of the Poles. This was to turn the Polish lower classes into a modern nation and put a stop to the successes of Germanization and Russification, pursued by the occupiers of partitioned Poland.\n\nIncreasing oppression at Russian hands after failed national uprisings (the November Uprising of 1830-1831 and the January Uprising of 1863-1864) finally convinced Polish leaders that the insurrection was premature at best and perhaps fundamentally misguided and counterproductive. During the decades that followed, Poles largely forsook the goal of immediate independence and turned instead to fortifying the nation through the subtler means of education, economic development, and modernization. This approach took the name Organic Work for its philosophy of strengthening Polish society at the grass roots, influenced by positivism. For some, the adoption of Organic Work meant permanent resignation to foreign rule, but many advocates recommended it as a strategy to combat repression while awaiting an eventual opportunity to achieve self-government.\n\nNeither as colorful as the Polish rebellions, nor as loftily enshrined in national memory, the quotidian methods of organic work proved well suited to the political conditions of the later nineteenth century. The international balance of forces did not favour the recovery of Polish statehood at that time given that both Russia and Germany appeared bent on the eventual eradication of Polish national identity. The German Empire, established in 1871 as an expanded version of the Prussian state, aimed at the assimilation of its eastern provinces inhabited by Poles. At the same time, St. Petersburg attempted to russify the former Congress Kingdom, joining Berlin in levying restrictions against use of the Polish language and cultural expression. Poles under Russian and German rule also endured official campaigns against the Roman Catholic Church: the Cultural Struggle (Kulturkampf) of Chancellor Otto von Bismarck to bring the Roman Catholic Church under state control and the Russian campaign to replace Catholicism by extending Orthodoxy throughout the empire.\n\nThe Polish subjects under Austrian jurisdiction (after 1867 the Habsburg Empire was commonly known as Austria-Hungary) confronted a generally more lenient regime. Poles suffered no religious persecution in predominantly Catholic Austria, and Vienna counted on the Polish nobility as allies in the complex political calculus of its multinational realm. In return for loyalty, Austrian Poland, or Galicia, received considerable administrative and cultural autonomy. Galicia gained a reputation as an oasis of toleration amidst the oppression of German and Russian Poland. The Galician provincial Sejm acted as a semiautonomous parliamentary body, and Poles represented the region in the empire government in Vienna. In the late 1800s, the universities of Krakow and Lwów became the centers of Polish intellectual activity, and Kraków became the center of Polish art and thought. Even after the restoration of independence, many residents of southern Poland retained a touch of nostalgia for the days of the Habsburg Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "8508674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8508674", "title": "OttoBib", "text": "OttoBib\n\nOttoBib.com is a website with a free tool to generate an alphabetized bibliography of books from a list of International Standard Book Numbers (ISBN) with output in MLA, APA, Chicago/Turabian, BibTeX and Wikipedia format. Each query also generates a \"temporary\" permalink (self-destructs in about one month) which can be used to recall the bibliography without reentering the ISBN data. The site is a metasearch engine, integrating data from several sources, including the U.S. Library of Congress API, the Amazon.com database of books, and ISBNdb.com. OttoBib accepts ISBNs with either 10 or 13 digits.\n\nOttoBib.com was started as a hobby project in 2006 by Jonathan Otto, a then 4th year undergraduate at the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse, USA. It was originally called \"That's Crazy Hot!\" but the name was quickly changed to OttoBib because the original title was \"not suitable for the academic environment and consequently won't take off.\"\n\nThe original inspiration for the site came from Seth Godin's January 3, 2006 blog post on \"Stuck Systems\", where he wrote:\n\nA quick online search didn't turn up what seemed obvious to me: a free service that would allow a writer to type in all the ISBNs used in creating a paper and then generate two things:\n\nOttoBib.com performs the two basic functions outlined. Marcus P. Zillman, an Internet information retrieval consultant and speaker said \"this website is the start of a new paradigm of citing sources.\" Jason Clarke, a writer and web developer, said OttoBib is a \"tool that solves a simple problem in a simple manner.\"\n\nIn January 2007, OttoBib introduced a REST interface to allow a citation to be generated from a URL that contains the ISBN. For example, can be used in the URL:\n\nto display\n\nIn February 2007, OttoBib introduced the ability to request citations in BibTeX and Wikipedia formats.\n\n"}
{"id": "298760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298760", "title": "Outline of commercial law", "text": "Outline of commercial law\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to commercial law:\n\nCommercial law – body of law that governs business and commercial transactions. It is often considered to be a branch of civil law and deals with issues of both private law and public law. It is also called business law.\n\nCommercial law can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "829338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=829338", "title": "Privilege (law)", "text": "Privilege (law)\n\nA privilege is a certain entitlement to immunity granted by the state or another authority to a restricted group, either by birth or on a conditional basis. Land-titles and taxi medallions are pronounced examples of transferable privilege. These can be revoked in certain circumstances. In modern democratic states, a \"privilege\" is conditional and granted only after birth. By contrast, a \"right\" is an inherent, irrevocable entitlement held by all citizens or all human beings from the moment of birth. Various examples of old common law privilege still exist, to title deeds, for example. Etymologically, a privilege (\"privilegium\") means a \"private law\", or rule relating to a specific individual or institution.\n\nNote that the principles of conduct that members of the legal profession observe in their practice are called Legal ethics. \n\nBoniface's abbey of Fulda, to cite an early and prominent example, was granted \"privilegium\", setting the abbot in direct contact with the pope, bypassing the jurisdiction of the local bishop.\n\nOne of the objectives of the French Revolution was the abolition of privilege. This meant the removal of separate laws for different social classes (nobility, clergy, and ordinary people), instead subjecting everyone to the same common law. Privileges were abolished by the National Constituent Assembly on August 4, 1789.\n\nOne common legal privilege in the United States and Commonwealth countries is protection from the requirement to testify or provide documents in certain situations (see privilege (evidence)). This is granted to people based on a professional or personal relationship (such as being the lawyer, doctor, or spouse of the accused) and not based on circumstances of birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "22849642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22849642", "title": "Psychological theories of magic", "text": "Psychological theories of magic\n\nPsychological theories of magic treat magic as a personal phenomenon intended to meet individual needs, as opposed to a social phenomenon serving a collective purpose. \n\nAmong the earliest psychological theories is the psychosis theory, advanced by Sigmund Freud. According to this theory, “primitive man” is not a rational being, and in fact magical thinking bears a strong resemblance to neuroses. However, this conclusion has come into question, as more recent psychological theory acknowledges that psychological testing does not cross cultures with complete accuracy. \n\nIn contrast, the “bad science” model claims that primitive man is rational, and magical beliefs come into existence as he tries to explain puzzling phenomena without enough information. According to this theory, the magician is an early form of scientist who merely lacks adequate data. In Edward Burnett Tylor’s version of this theory, the magician’s folly is in mistaking an ideal connection for a real one; the magician believes that thematically-linked items can influence one another by virtue of their similarity. For example, the Azande rub crocodile teeth on banana plants to make them fruitful (because crocodile teeth grow continuously). The property of fertility can spread from a symbol of fertility (the crocodile tooth) to the intended target (the banana tree). Michael F. Brown observes that many Aguaruna taboos can be understood as preventing undesired connections. \n\nThe symbolic action theory understands magic as a course of action taken when there exists an emotional (psychological) need for action, but no practical option exists. In R.R. Marett’s example, it is a magical action when a man, betrayed by his mistress, gathers photographs of her and burns them. This interpretation presents a modern analog of the voodoo doll. As Marett describes, if the emotional situation proves common enough, the response becomes a socially-codified norm which outsiders understand as magic and which Marett labels “developed magic”. Claude Lévi-Strauss and Ariel Glucklich expand upon symbolic theory, positing that magic can serve as a form of psychotherapy or New Age science, accomplishing real results by what amounts to the placebo effect. The effects of such magic would be made real through its effect on the individual person as demonstrated in their life and actions.\n\nAccording to theories of anxiety relief and control, people turn to magical beliefs when there exists a sense of uncertainty and potential danger and little to do about it. Magic is used to restore a sense of control. In support of this theory, research indicates that superstitious behavior is invoked more often in high stress situations, especially by people with a greater desire for control. It is proposed that one reason (but not necessarily the only reason) for the persistence of magic rituals is that the ritual activates vigilance-precaution systems – that is to say, that the rituals prompt their own use by creating a feeling of insecurity and then proposing themselves as precautions. Pascal Boyer and Pierre Liénard propose that the shape rituals take results from goal demotion and attentional focus on lower level representation. Levels of representation were previously described by J.M. Zacks and Barbara Tversky. At the lowest level are simple gestures (such as putting the left foot in a shoe). At the mid-level are behavioral episodes (such as putting one’s shoes on). At the highest level are scripts (such as getting dressed to go out). Ordinarily, people describe and recall behavior in terms of the middle level of behavioral episodes. In studies of obsessive-compulsive rituals, focus shifts to the lower level of gestures, resulting in goal demotion. For example, an obsessive-compulsive cleaning ritual may overemphasize the order, direction, and number of wipes used to clean the surface. The goal becomes less important than the actions used to achieve the goal, with the implication that magic rituals can persist without efficacy because the intent is lost within the act. Debate remains as to whether studies of obsessive-compulsive rituals can be extended to describe other kinds of rituals.\n"}
{"id": "44086458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44086458", "title": "R. B. Merriman", "text": "R. B. Merriman\n\nRoger Bigelow Merriman (24 May 1876 – 7 September 1945) was an American historian and a practitioner of scientific historiography developed by German historians. He is known especially for his multivolume history of the Spanish Empire.\n\nRoger Bigelow Merriman was the only child of the Rev. Daniel Merriman, minister of the Central Congregational Church in Worcester, Massachusetts, and the artist and art collector Helen Bigelow Merriman. His maternal grandfather was Erastus Brigham Bigelow, an inventor of weaving machinery.\n\nMerriman entered Harvard University as an undergraduate in 1892, earning both an A.B. and an M.A. degree. He went on to spend two years (1897–99) studying history at Oxford University, finishing with a B.Litt degree. He obtained his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1902 and that same year published his biography of Cromwell, which he considered \"as apprentice work.\" In 1902 Merriman was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society.\n\nMerriman taught at Harvard for many years. He was initially hired in 1902 as an instructor and was later promoted to assistant professor (1908) and full professor (1918). He served for a time as master of Eliot House. In 1925-36, he was a visiting professor at the Sorbonne in France. He received a number of honorary doctorates.\n\nThe course he taught on the Spanish Empire gave the impetus for his research and voluminous publication on the topic. His four-volume work \"The Rise of the Spanish Empire\" (1918-1934) is recognized as a pioneering work in the field of Latin American history. Its main thesis is that \"the Spanish Empire, unlike its British rival, was the natural continuation of Spain's medieval history.\" One assessment of his work is that \"Merriman will always be a historian's historian,\" and his work never found public favor. \"In the long run, one feels, the reputation of Roger Merriman is secure in the hands of his fellow historians.\"\n\n\nMerriman married Dorothea Foote, and they had four children: Roger, Daniel, Dorothea, and Helen.\n"}
{"id": "23761626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23761626", "title": "Religious views on euthanasia", "text": "Religious views on euthanasia\n\nThere are many religious views on euthanasia, although many moral theologians are critical of the procedure.\n\nThere are many views among Buddhists on the issue of euthanasia, but many are critical of the procedure.\n\nAn important value of Buddhism teaching is compassion. Compassion is used by some Buddhists as a justification for euthanasia because the person suffering is relieved of pain. However, it is still immoral \"to embark on any course of action whose aim is to destroy human life, irrespective of the quality of the individual's motive.\" \n\nIn Theravada Buddhism a lay person daily recites the simple formula: \"I undertake the precept to abstain from destroying living beings.\" For Buddhist monastics (\"bhikkhu\") however the rules are more explicitly spelled out. For example, in the monastic code (\"Patimokkha\"), it states:\n\nThe Declaration on Euthanasia is the Church's official document on the topic of euthanasia, a statement that was issued by the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith in 1980.\n\nCatholic teaching condemns euthanasia as a \"crime against life\" and a \"crime against God\". The teaching of the Catholic Church on euthanasia rests on several core principles of Catholic ethics, including the sanctity of human life, the dignity of the human person, concomitant human rights, due proportionality in casuistic remedies, the inevitability of death, and the importance of charity. It has been argued that these are relatively recent positions, but whatever the position of individual Catholics, the Roman Catholic Church's viewpoint is unequivocal.\n\nProtestant denominations vary widely on their approach to euthanasia and physician assisted death. Since the 1970s, Evangelical churches have worked with Roman Catholics on a sanctity of life approach, though some Evangelicals may be adopting a more exceptionless opposition. While liberal Protestant denominations have largely eschewed euthanasia, many individual advocates (such as Joseph Fletcher) and euthanasia society activists have been Protestant clergy and laity. As physician assisted dying has obtained greater legal support, some liberal Protestant denominations have offered religious arguments and support for limited forms of euthanasia. However, they are more lenient than the Roman Catholic Church\n\nGroups claiming to speak for Christians rather than the official viewpoints of the Christian clergy have sprung up in a number of countries.\n\nThere are two Hindu points of view on euthanasia. By helping to end a painful life a person is performing a good deed and so fulfilling their moral obligations.Euthanasia may also be acceptable if it is used for selfless motives. On the other hand, by helping to end a life, even one filled with suffering, a person is disturbing the timing of the cycle of death and rebirth. This is a bad thing to do, and those involved in the euthanasia will take on the remaining karma of the patient\nDeath is a natural process, and will come in time.\n\nIt is clearly stated in the Vedas that man has only two trustworthy friends in life, the first is called Vidya (knowledge), and the 2nd is called Mrityu (Death). The former is something that is beneficial and a requirement in life, and the latter is something that is inevitable sometimes even unexpected. It is not the euthanasia that is the act of sin, but worldly attachment which causes euthanasia to be looked upon as an act of sin. Even a Sannyasin or Sannyasini if they decide to, are permitted to end his or her life with the hope of reaching moksha i.e. emancipation of the soul.\n\nMuslims are against euthanasia. They believe that all humans life is sacred because it is given by God, and that God chooses how long each person lives. Human beings should not interfere in this.\n\nJainism is based on the principle of non-violence (\"ahinsa\") and is best known for it. Jainism recommends voluntary death or \"sallekhana\" for both ascetics and srāvaka (householders) at the end of their life. \"Sallekhana\" (also known as \"Santhara\", \"Samadhi-marana\") is made up of two words \"sal\" (meaning 'properly') and \"lekhana\", which means to thin out. Properly thinning out of the passions and the body is \"sallekhana.\" A person is allowed to fast unto death or take the vow of \"sallekhana\" only when certain requirements are fulfilled. It is not considered suicide as the person observing it, must be in a state of full consciousness. When observing \"sallekhana\", one must not have the desire to live or desire to die. Practitioner shouldn't recollect the pleasures enjoyed or, long for the enjoyment of pleasures in the future. The process is still controversial in parts of India. Estimates for death by this means range from 100 to 240 a year. Preventing santhara invites social ostracism.\n\nLike the trend among Protestants, Jewish medical ethics have become divided, partly on denominational lines, over euthanasia and end of life treatment since the 1970s. Generally, Jewish thinkers oppose voluntary euthanasia, often vigorously, though there is some backing for voluntary passive euthanasia in limited circumstances. Likewise, within the Conservative Judaism movement, there has been increasing support for passive euthanasia (PAD) In Reform Judaism responsa, the preponderance of anti-euthanasia sentiment has shifted in recent years to increasing support for certain passive euthanasia options. Secular Judaism is a separate category with increasing support for euthanasia. A popular sympathiser for euthanasia is Rabbi Miriam Jerris.\n\nA study performed in 2010 investigated elderly Jewish women who identified themselves as either Hasidic Orthodox, non-Hasidic Orthodox, or secularized Orthodox in their faith. The study found that all of the Hasidic Orthodox responders disapproved of voluntary euthanasia whereas a majority of the secularized Orthodox responders approved of it.\n\nIn Japan, where the dominant religion is Shinto, 69% of the religious organisations agree with the act of voluntary passive euthanasia. The corresponding figure was 75% when the family asked for it. In Shinto, the prolongation of life using artificial means is a disgraceful act against life. Views on active euthanasia are mixed, with 25% Shinto and Buddhist organisations in Japan supporting voluntary active euthanasia.\n\nThe Unitarian Universalist Association (UUA) recommends observing the ethics and culture of the resident country when determining euthanasia. In 1988 the UUA gathered to share a commitment to The Right to Die with Dignity document which included a resolution supporting self-determination in dying.\n\nReligious views on euthanasia are both varied and complicated. While one's view on the matter doesn't necessarily connect directly to their religion, it often impacts a person's opinion. While the influence of religion on one's views toward palliative care do make a difference, they often play a smaller role than one may think. An analysis of the connection between the religion of US adults and their view on euthanasia was done in order to see how they combine. The findings concluded that the religious affiliation one associates with does not necessarily connect with their stance on euthanasia. Research shows that while many belong to a specific religion, they may not always see every aspect as relevant to them.\n\nSome metadata analysis has supported the hypothesis that nurses’ attitudes towards euthanasia and physician assisted suicide are influenced by religion and world view. Attributing more importance to religion also seems to make agreement with euthanasia and physician assisted suicide less likely. A 1995 study of public opinion found that the tendency to see a distinction between active euthanasia and suicide was clearly affected by religious affiliation and education. In Australia, more doctors without formal religious affiliation were sympathetic to active voluntary euthanasia, and acknowledged that they had practised it, than were doctors who gave any religious affiliation. Of those identifying with a religion, those who reported a Protestant affiliation were intermediate in their attitudes and practices between the agnostic/atheist and the Catholic groups. Catholics recorded attitudes most opposed, but even so, 18 per cent of Catholic medical respondents who had been so requested, recorded that they had taken active steps to bring about the death of patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5210960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210960", "title": "Right-wing terrorism", "text": "Right-wing terrorism\n\nRight-wing terrorism is terrorism motivated by a variety of ideologies and beliefs, including Islamophobia, anti-communism, neo-fascism and neo-Nazism. This type of terrorism has been sporadic, with little or no international cooperation. Modern radical right-wing terrorism first appeared in Western Europe in the 1970s and it first appeared in Eastern Europe following the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nRight-wing terrorists aim to overthrow governments and replace them with nationalist or fascist-oriented regimes. The core of this movement includes neo-fascist skinheads, far-right hooligans, youth sympathisers and intellectual guides who believe that the state must rid itself of foreign elements in order to protect its \"rightful\" citizens. However, they usually lack a rigid ideology. \n\nArmin Falk and colleagues suggests that Right-Wing Extremist Crime (REC), which includes anti-foreigner and racist motivations, is associated with unemployment rates (261). Consequently, as unemployment rates increase, REC also increases. This correlation can be found in several countries including Germany, United States, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, this phenomenon is not necessarily associated with individuals, rather unemployment impacts society's humanitarian values of tolerance and altruism. Meaning, as unemployment rates increase, humanitarian values of tolerance and altruism decrease according to Falk. This cause of right-wing terrorism can be associated with a functionalist perspective on employment. Ferrante defines a functionalist approach as \"how the parts of society contribute in expected and unexpected way of maintain an existing social order\" (26). Work and employment serve several functions for society (University of Minnesota 12.2). The University of Minnesota Library suggests that employment provides workers with an income and also contributes to their self-identity and fulfillment (12.2). When employment is low, this leads to a perceived threat towards self-identity and fulfillment which can then lead to a larger possibility for right-wing terrorism to occur.\n\nA second cause of right-wing terrorism as Thomas Greven suggests, is populism, or more accurately, right-wing populism. Jan-Werner Muller describes populism as a form of identity politics that is inherently anti-establishment and anti-pluralist (3). More simply put, populism supports the advancement of 'the average citizen', and it does not support the agendas of the privileged elite. Furthermore, Greven defines right-wing populist as those who support ethnocentrism, and oppose immigration (3). Right-wing populist policies that have recently been covered in the media include the Executive Order 13769, which is the travel ban from Muslim-majority countries to the United States, and the Immigration policy of Donald Trump which proposes that a wall should be built between the United States and Mexico in order to prevent illegal immigrants from coming to the United States. Greven suggests that immigration policy not only threatens economic competition, but also threatens traditional values and identities (5). Due to the ethnocentric motivations behind these policies, they are classified as right-wing populism. Because right-wing populism creates a climate of 'us versus them', terrorism is more likely to occur according to Greven. This cause of right-wing terrorism can be associated with a conflict perspective. Ferrante explains the conflict perspective as a focus on conflict regarding scarce resources and the strategies advantaged groups used to perpetuate social agreement arrangements from which they benefit (30). When people feel as though their traditional values are being threatened by the social elite who contribute to the rise in immigration, conflict ensues, and terrorism follows.\n\nIn 1993 Chris Hani, the General Secretary of the South African Communist Party was murdered by Polish-born far-right anti-Communist Janusz Waluś who had been lent a firearm by far-right pro-Apartheid MP Clive Derby-Lewis.\nThe Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging, a neo-Nazi paramilitary organisation, has often been described as terrorist. \nIn 2010 South African authorities foiled a plot by far-right terrorists to commit attacks as revenge for the murder of Eugène Terre'Blanche, seizing explosives and firearms.\n\nDuring Brazil's military government, some right-wing military engaged in violent repression. The Riocentro 1981 May Day Attack was a bombing attempt that happened on the night of April 30, 1981. Severe casualties were suffered by the terrorists. While an NGO held a fundraiser fighting for democracy and free elections and celebrating the upcoming holiday, a bomb exploded at Riocentro parking area killing army seargent Guilherme Pereira do Rosário and severely wounding captain Wilson Dias Machado, who survived the bomb explosion. The bomb exploded inside a car where both were preparing it. Rosário died instantaneously. They were the only casualties.\n\nThe Para-SAR example was revealed by Brazilian Air Force captain Sérgio Ribeiro Miranda de Carvalho in 1968 before it reached the execution phase as it was made public to the press after a meeting with his superior Brigadier General João Paulo Burnier and chief of Para-SAR unity. Burnier discussed a secret plan to bomb a dense traffic area of Rio de Janeiro known as \"Gasômetro\" during commute and later claim that Communists were the perpetrators. He expected to be able to run a witch-hunt against the growing political military opposition. Burnier also mentioned his intentions on making the Para-SAR, a Brazilian Air Force rescue unity, a tool for eliminating some military government political oppositors throwing them to the sea at a wide distance of the coast. On both of these events, no military involved on these actions or planning was arrested, charged or faced retaliation from the Brazilian military government. The only exception is captain Sérgio de Carvalho which had to leave the air force for facing his superiors retaliation after whistleblowing brigadier Burnier's plan.\n\nColombian paramilitary groups were responsible for most of the human rights violations in the latter half of the ongoing Colombian conflict. The first paramilitary terrorist groups were organized by U.S. military advisers who were sent during the Cold War to combat the spread of leftist politicians, activists and guerrillas.\n\nAccording to several international human rights and governmental organizations, right-wing paramilitary groups were responsible for at least 70 to 80% of political murders in Colombia per year.\n\nThis groups were financed and protected by elite landowners, drug traffickers, members of the security forces, right wing politicians and multinational corporations.\n\nParamilitary violence and terrorism there was principally targeted towards peasants, unionists, indigenous people, human rights workers, teachers and left-wing political activists or their supporters.\n\nThe Contras were a right wing militant group, backed by the United States, that fought against the Sandinista National Liberation Front in Nicaragua. They were responsible for numerous human rights violations and carried out over 1300 terrorist attacks.\n\nThe term \"white terrorism\" is used by scholars to label terrorism committed against African Americans during the Reconstruction era.\n\nAccording to George Michael, \"right-wing terrorism and violence has a long history in America\". Right-wing violent incidents began to outnumber Marxist incidents in the United States during the 1980s and 1990s. Michael observes the waning of left-wing terrorism accompanying the rise of right-wing terrorism, with a noticeable \"convergence\" of the goals of militant Islam with those of the extreme right. Islamic studies scholar Youssef M. Choueiri classified Islamic fundamentalist movements involving revivalism, reformism, and radicalism as within the scope of \"right-wing politics\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, more than 75 right-wing extremists were prosecuted in the United States for acts of terrorism, carrying out six attacks. In 1983, Gordon Kahl, a Posse Comitatus activist, killed two federal marshals and he was later killed by police. Also that year, the white nationalist revolutionary group The Order (also known as the Brüder Schweigen or the Silent Brotherhood) robbed banks and armored cars, as well as a sex shop, bombed a theater and a synagogue and murdered radio talk show host Alan Berg.\n\nThe April 19, 1995 attack on the Murrah federal building in Oklahoma by Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols killed 168 people and it was the deadliest act of domestic terrorism in the history of the United States. McVeigh stated that it was committed in retaliation for the government's actions at Ruby Ridge and Waco.\n\nEric Rudolph executed a series of terrorist attacks between 1996 and 1998. He carried out the 1996 Centennial Olympic Park bombing—which claimed two lives and injured 111—aiming to cancel the games, claiming they promoted global socialism and to embarrass the U.S. government. Rudolph confessed to bombing an abortion clinic in Sandy Springs, an Atlanta suburb, on January 16, 1997, the Otherside Lounge, an Atlanta lesbian bar, on February 21, 1997, injuring five and an abortion clinic in Birmingham, Alabama on January 29, 1998, killing Birmingham police officer and part-time clinic security guard Robert Sanderson and critically injuring nurse Emily Lyons.\n\nAs of October 2018, the New America Foundation placed the number killed in terrorist attacks in the United States since 9/11 as follows: 104 killed in jihadist terrorist attacks, 86 killed in far-right attacks, and 8 killed in black separatist/nationalist/supremacist attacks. The politically conservative Daily Caller News Foundation using data from the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START), found 92% of all \"ideologically motivated homicide incidents\" committed in the United States from 2007 to 2016 were motivated by right-wing extremism or white supremacism. According to the Government Accountability Office of the United States, 73% of violent extremist incidents that resulted in deaths since September 12, 2001 were caused by right-wing extremist groups.\n\nNew America's tally shows that since September 11, 2001, incidents of right-wing extremism have caused 86 deaths. Incidents causing death were:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Count of \"victims killed\" and \"victims wounded\" excludes attackers.\n\nA report in \"The Washington Post\", published on November 25, 2018, showed violent right-wing-related incidents up, and left-wing-related incidents down. Total domestic terrorism incidents was down to 41 in 2001, from a high of 468 in 1970, but then went up to 65 in 2017. Of those 65 events in 2017, 36 were right-wing-related (with 11 fatalities), 10 were left-wing-related (with 6 fatalities), 7 were related to Islamist extremism (with 16 fatalities), and 12, including the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, were categorized as \"Other/Unknown\" (with 62 fatalities, including 58 from the Las Vegas incident). The report found that 2018 was a particularly deadly year, with 11 people dying in the Pittsburgh synagogue shooting, 2 others in an incident in Kentucky, and two more in a shooting in Tallasshee. All three incidents were right-wing related.\n\nThe \"Post\" reported that the upsurge in right-wing violence began during the Barack Obama administration and picked up steam under the presidency of Donald Trump, whose remarks after the Unite the Right rally in Charlotteville, Virginia in 2017 that there were \"some very fine people on both sides\" is widely seen as giving confidence to the right that the administration looked favorably on their goals, providing them with \"tacit support\". A former FBI assistant director for counterintelligence, is quoted as saying that \"[political leaders] from the White House down, used to serve as a check on conduct and speech that was abhorrent to most people. I see that eroding. ... The current political rhetoric is at least enabling, and certainly not discouraging, violence.\"\n\nAccording to analysis by the newspaper of data from the Global Terrorism Database, 92 of 263 domestic terrorism events – 35% – that occurred from 2010 to 2017 were right-wing related, while 38 (14%) were Islamist extremist-related, and 34 (13%) were left-wing related. Not only that, but a criminologist from John Jay College stated that right-wing attacks were statistically more likely to result in fatalities.\n\nNeo-Nazis were suspected to have perpetrated the 1992 Copenhagen bombing, in which the office of a left-wing socialist party was attacked, killing one of its members.\n\nIn the town of Toulon, a far-right extremist group called SOS-France existed. On 18 August 1986, four members were driving a car carrying explosives, apparently in an attempt to bomb the offices of SOS Racisme. However it exploded while they were still in it, killing all four of them.\n\nNeo-Nazi members of the French and European Nationalist Party were responsible for a pair of anti-immigrant terror bombings in 1988. Sonacotra hostels in Cagnes-sur-Mer and Cannes were bombed, killing Romanian immigrant George Iordachescu and injuring 16 people, mostly Tunisians. In an attempt to frame Jewish extremists for the Cagnes-sur-Mer bombing, the terrorists left leaflets bearing Stars of David and the name Masada at the scene, with the message \"To destroy Israel, Islam has chosen the sword. For this choice, Islam will perish.\"\n\nOn 28 May 2008, members of the neo-Nazi Nomad 88 group fired with machine guns at people from their car in Saint-Michel-sur-Orge.\n\nIn 2015, in the aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo shooting, six mosques and a restaurant were attacked in acts deemed as right-wing terrorism by authorities. The acts included grenade throwing, shooting, and use of an improvised explosive device.\n\nIn 1980, a right-wing terrorist attack in Munich, Germany killed the attacker and 12 other people, injuring 215. Fears of an ongoing campaign of major right-wing terrorist attacks did not materialize.\n\nIn addition to several bank robberies, the German National Socialist Underground was responsible for the Bosphorus serial murders (2000–2006), the 2004 Cologne bombing and the murder of policewoman Michéle Kiesewetter in 2007. In November 2011, two members of the National Socialist Underground committed suicide after a bank robbery and a third member was arrested some days later.\n\nRight-wing extremist offenses in Germany rose sharply in 2015 and 2016. Figures from the German government tallied 316 violent xenophobic offences in 2014 and 612 such offenses in 2015.\n\nIn August 2014, a group of four Germans founded a Munich-based far-right terrorist group, the . The group, which held racist, antisemitic, and anti-Muslim views, eventually attracted 30 members. They stockpiled weapons and explosives and plotted to attack a refugee shelter in Saxony, but the group's leaders were arrested in May 2015 before carrying out the attack. In March 2017 four of the group's leaders were sentenced to prison terms. The perpetrator of the 2016 Munich shooting also had far-right views.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, Italy endured the Years of Lead, a period characterized by frequent terrorist attacks: between 1969 and 1982, the nation suffered 8,800 terrorist attacks, in which a total of 351 people were killed and 768 were injured. The terrorist attacks have been both ascribed to the far-left and the far-right, yet a lot of terrorist attacks remain without a clear culprit and a lot of people have claimed the authorship of them is to be ascribed to rogue members of the Italian secret service. Even some of the terrorist attacks ascribed to a particular political group may be in reality the work of these rogue agents: this has been claimed, among many others, by Francesco Cossiga, who was the President of the Italian Republic during the years of lead, and by Giulio Andreotti, who, during the same period of time held the Prime Minister office more than once.\n\nThe Years of Lead are considered to have begun with the Piazza Fontana bombing in Milan in December 1969, perpetrated by Ordine Nuovo, a right-wing neofascist group. Sixteen people were killed, and 90 injured, in the bombing.\n\nIn July 1970, this same group carried out a bombing on a train going from Rome to Messina, killing six and wounding almost 100. The group also carried out the Piazza della Loggia bombing in 1974, killing eight antifascist activists. Perhaps the most infamous right-wing terrorist attack in post-war Italy is the August 1980 Bologna bombing, in which neo-fascist Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari (\"Armed Revolutionary Nuclei\"), an Ordine Nuovo offshoot, killed 85 people and injured 200 at the Bologna railroad station. Valerio Fioravanti, Francesca Mambro, and two others were convicted of mass murder in the attacks, although both have always denied any connection with them.\n\nIn December 2011, a gunman targeted Senegalese peddlers in Florence, killing two and injuring three others before killing himself. The perpetrator was a sympathizer of CasaPound, which is a neo-fascist party that Italian judges have recognized as not posing a threat to public or private safety.\n\nOn July 22, 2011, Norwegian right-wing extremist with Nazi and fascist sympathies, Anders Behring Breivik, carried out the 2011 Norway attacks, the largest mass killing of people in Norway by a single person during peacetime, excluding use of bombs. First he bombed several government buildings in Oslo, killing eight people and injuring more than 30. After the bombings, he went to Utøya island in a fake police uniform and began firing on people attending a political youth camp for the Worker's Youth League (AUF), a left-wing political party, killing 68 and injuring more than 60.\n\nDespite the country being nearly ethnically and religiously homogenous, Polish far-right targets, via propaganda or physical violence, religious and ethnic minorities such as Jews, Romani people, people with darker complexion or Middle Eastern appearance. In 1991, an anti-Romani pogrom broke out in Mława. During the UEFA Euro 2012, Polish hooligans targeted random Russian football supporters. There have been reports of hate crimes targeting the Muslim minority in Poland. Far-right and right-wing populist political parties and organizations fuel fear and hatred towards Islam and Muslims. Hate crimes such as arson and physical violence have occurred in Poland (despite having a Muslim population of only 0.1%, that is 30,000 out of 38 million). In 2016, police arrested a man who they say tried to burn down a mosque in Gdansk. The man belonged to the neo-nazi group called Blood & Honour.\n\nThe Savior was a neo-Nazi militant nationalist organization which claimed credit for the August 2006 Moscow market bombing, which killed 13. Media reports indicate that the market, located near Cherkizovsky, was targeted due to its high volume of Central Asian and Caucasian clientele. Four members of The Saviour were sentenced to life imprisonment, while four others received lesser prison terms.\n\nOn 22 April 2017, A gunman 'with hatred for ethnic minorities' shot and killed two people in an attack in a Federal Security Service office in the Russian city of Khabarovsk. The gunman was also killed. The Russian Federal Security Service says the native 18-year-old perpetrator was a known member of a neo-nazi group.\n\nBoth the 2009–10 Malmö shootings and the Trollhättan school attack were conducted by right-wing terrorists along with a refugee centre bombing in 2017. A notable serial killer motivated by far-right motives is John Ausonius. Far-rightists were also responsible for attacking an anti-racist demonstration in Stockholm in December 2013.\n\nIn April 1999, David Copeland, a neo-Nazi, planted a series of nail bombs over 13 days. His attacks, which were aimed at London's black, Bangladeshi and gay communities, resulted in three dead and more than 100 injured. Copeland was a former member of two far right political groups, the British National Party (BNP) and the National Socialist Movement. Copeland told police, \"My aim was political. It was to cause a racial war in this country. There'd be a backlash from the ethnic minorities, then all the white people will go out and vote BNP.\"\n\nIn July 2007, Robert Cottage, a former BNP member, was convicted for possessing explosive chemicals in his home – described by police at the time of his arrest as the largest amount of chemical explosive of its type ever found in that country. In June 2008, Martyn Gilleard, a British Nazi sympathizer, was jailed after police found nail bombs, bullets, swords, axes and knives in his flat. Also in 2008, Nathan Worrell was found guilty of possession of material for terrorist purposes and racially aggravated harassment. He was described by anti-terror police as a \"dangerous individual\". The court heard that police found books and manuals containing \"recipes\" to make bombs and detonators using household items, such as weedkiller, at Worrell's flat. In July 2009, Neil Lewington was planning on waging a terror campaign using weapons made from tennis balls and weedkiller against those he classified as \"non British\".\n\nIn 2012, the British Home Affairs Committee warned of the threat of far right terrorism in the UK, claiming it had heard \"persuasive evidence\" about the potential danger and cited the growth of similar threats across Europe.\n\nMembers of Combat 18 (C18), a neo-Nazi organisation based on the concept of \"leaderless resistance\", have been suspected in numerous deaths of immigrants, non-whites and other C18 members. Between 1998 and 2000, dozens of members were arrested. A group calling itself the Racial Volunteer Force split from C18 in 2002, retaining close links to its parent organization. Some journalists believed that the White Wolves were a C18 splinter group, alleging that the group had been set up by Del O'Connor, the former second-in-command of C18 and member of Skrewdriver Security. C18 attacks on immigrants continued through 2009. Weapons, ammunition and explosives were seized by police in the UK and almost every country in which C18 was active.\n\nIn 2016, Jo Cox, the Member of Parliament (MP) for the Batley and Spen constituency was murdered by Thomas Mair, who was motivated by far-right political views and had connections to several far-right organisations in the UK, US, and South Africa.\n\nOn 16 December 2016 Home Secretary Amber Rudd designated the far-right, neo-Nazi National Action group as a terrorist organisation which criminalises membership or support for the organisation. On 12 June 2018, Jack Renshaw, 23, a former spokesperson for National Action, admitted in a guilty plea to buying a 48 cm (19 in) replica RomanGladius sword (often wrongly referred to in the media as a machete) to murder Rosie Cooper, the Member of Parliament (MP) for the West Lancashire constituency.\n\nIn March 2018 Mark Rowley, the outgoing head of UK counter-terror policing, revealed that four far-right terror plots had been foiled since the Westminster attack in March 2017.\n\nBritish far-right activists supplied funds and weaponry to Loyalist terrorist groups in Northern Ireland during the Troubles. Following the Good Friday Agreement some members of Loyalist groups orchestrated racist attacks in Northern Ireland, including pipe bomb and gun attacks on the homes of immigrants. As a result, Northern Ireland has a higher proportion of racist attacks than other parts of the UK, and was branded the \"race-hate capital of Europe\".\n\nIn August 2016 Phillip Galea was charged with several terrorist offences. Galea had conducted \"surveillance\" of \"left-wing premises\" and planned to carry out bombings. Explosive ingredients were found at his home. Galea had links with organisations such as Combat 18 and the United Patriots Front.\nIn 2017 the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" reported on the conviction of neo-Nazi Michael James Holt, 26 who had threatened to carry out a mass shooting attack and considered Westfield Tuggerah as a target. He had manufactured home-made guns, knuckle dusters and slingshots in his grandfather's garage. Raids on his mother's home and a hotel room discovered more weapons including several firearms, slingshots and knuckle dusters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7706414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7706414", "title": "Science Research Associates", "text": "Science Research Associates\n\nScience Research Associates Inc., commonly known as SRA, is a Chicago-based publisher of educational materials and schoolroom reading comprehension products.\n\nScience Research Associates Inc. was founded in 1938. Early on, it had a trade and occupational focus. In 1957, it moved into individualized classroom instruction with the iconic SRA Reading Laboratory Kit, a format that later translated to mathematics, science, and social studies. Commonly called SRA cards, the labs were large boxes filled with color-coded cardboard sheets. Each sheet included a reading exercise for students. Each student would have an independent topic, and would work on it independently of the other students in the class, consulting with the teacher only if they got stuck. The student would then follow up with multiple choice questions. As the child moved ahead, he or she would advance in difficulty.\n\nSRA was purchased by IBM in 1964, and by that time its products geared to primary and secondary schools had increased, especially at a time when math education was seen as critical during the Cold War and Space Race. Despite being an IBM subsidiary, SRA produced both IBM PC and Apple II software in the 1980s. Maxwell Communications Corporation bought SRA in 1988. SRA became part of Macmillan/McGraw-Hill when the joint venture with McGraw-Hill was created in 1989. When Maxwell Communications collapsed, McGraw-Hill acquired full ownership of Macmillan/McGraw-Hill and SRA.\n\nSince the 1960s, SRA has been the publisher of Direct Instruction programs, also known as DISTAR (Direct Instruction System for Teaching Arithmetic and Reading). These include \"Language for Learning, Reading Mastery, Reasoning and Writing, Connecting Math Concepts\" and \"Corrective Reading\". SRA purchased Open Court Reading in the 1990s.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the company was purchased by McGraw-Hill Education and the brand name and products are now part of the PreK-12 business of McGraw-Hill Education. The \"Imagine It!\" reading program was launched in 2007. McGraw-Hill Education also competes as a publisher of mathematics and science materials with programs such as \"Real Math, Number Worlds\" and \"Snapshots Video Science\".\n\n"}
{"id": "323245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323245", "title": "Silversmith", "text": "Silversmith\n\nA silversmith is a craftsman who crafts objects from silver. The terms \"silversmith\" and \"goldsmith\" are not exactly synonyms as the techniques, training, history, and guilds are or were largely the same but the end product may vary greatly as may the scale of objects created. However most goldsmiths have also worked in silver although the reverse may not be the case.\n\nSilversmithing is the art of turning silver sheet metal into hollow ware (dishes, bowls, porringers, cups, candlesticks, vases, ewers, urns, etc.), flatware (silverware), and other articles of household silver, church plate or sculpture. It may also include the making of jewelry.\n\nIn the ancient Near East the value of silver to gold being less, allowed a silversmith to produce objects and store these as stock. Ogden states that according to an edict written by Diocletian in 301 A.D., a silversmith was able to charge 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, or 300 \"denarii\" for material produce (per Roman pound). At that time, guilds of silversmiths formed to arbitrate disputes, protect its members' welfare and educate the public of the trade.\n\nSilversmiths in medieval Europe and England formed guilds and transmitted their tools and techniques to new generations via the apprentice tradition. Silver working guilds often maintained consistency and upheld standards at the expense of innovation. Beginning in the 17th century, artisans emigrated to America and experienced fewer restrictions. As a result, silver working was one of the trades that helped to inaugurate the shift to industrialization in America.\n\nVery exquisite and distinctly designed silverware, that goes by the name of Swami Silver, emerged from the stable of watchmaker turned silversmith P Orr and Sons in the South Indian city of Madras (now Chennai) during the British rule in 1875.\n\nThe Falasha Clan , or Beta Israel, of Ethiopia were known for their silversmithing skills.\n\nSilversmiths saw or cut specific shapes from sterling and fine silver sheet metal and bar stock, and then use hammers to form the metal over anvils and stakes. Silver is hammered cold (at room temperature). As the metal is hammered, bent, and worked, it 'work-hardens'. Annealing is the heat-treatment used to make the metal soft again. If metal is work-hardened, and not annealed occasionally, the metal will crack and weaken the work.\n\nSilversmiths can use casting techniques to create knobs, handles and feet for the hollowware they are making.\n\nAfter forming and casting, the various pieces may be assembled by soldering and riveting.\n\nDuring most of their history, silversmiths used charcoal or coke fired forges, and lung-powered blow-pipes for soldering and annealing. Modern silversmiths commonly use gas burning torches as heat sources. A newer method is laser beam welding.\n\nSilversmiths may also work with copper and brass, especially when making practice pieces, due to those materials having similar working properties and being more affordable than silver.\n\nAlthough jewelers also work in silver and gold, and many of the techniques for working precious metals overlap, the trades of jeweler and Silversmith have distinct histories.\nChain-making and gem-setting are common practices of jewelers that are not usually considered aspects of silversmiths.\n\nThe tradition of making (iron / plate) armor was interrupted sometime after the 17th century. Silversmithing and goldsmithing, by contrast, have an unbroken tradition going back many millennia. The techniques used to make armor today (whether for movies or for historical recreation groups) are an amalgam of silversmith forming techniques and blacksmith iron-handling techniques.\n\nIn the western Canadian silversmith tradition, guilds do not exist; however, mentoring through colleagues becomes a method of professional learning within a community of craftspersons.\n\nIn the native Canadian western tradition, silversmithing is done through hand tooling and bright cut engraving of silver. There are silversmiths who only make jewellery and there are silversmiths who only make utensils.\n\n\n\n<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12133689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12133689", "title": "The Critic (play)", "text": "The Critic (play)\n\nThe Critic: or, a Tragedy Rehearsed is a satire by Richard Brinsley Sheridan. It was first staged at Drury Lane Theatre in 1779. It is a burlesque on stage acting and play production conventions, and Sheridan considered the first act to be his finest piece of writing. One of its major roles, Sir Fretful Plagiary, is a comment on the vanity of authors, and in particular a caricature of the dramatist Richard Cumberland who was a contemporary of Sheridan.\n\nBased on George Villiers' \"The Rehearsal\", it concerns misadventures that arise when an author, Mr Puff, invites Sir Fretful Plagiary and the theatre critics Dangle and Sneer to a rehearsal of his play \"The Spanish Armada\", Sheridan's parody of the then-fashionable tragic drama.\n\nIn 1911, Herbert Beerbohm Tree mounted a star-studded production of \"The Critic\" at Her Majesty's Theatre starring George Alexander, Cecil Armstrong, George Barrett, Arthur Bourchier, C. Hayden Coffin, Kenneth Douglas, Lily Elsie, Winifred Emery, George Graves, George Grossmith, Jr., Edmund Gurney, John Harwood, Charles Hawtrey, Helen Haye, Laurence Irving, Cyril Maude, Gerald Du Maurier, Gertie Millar, Edmund Payne, Courtice Pounds, Marie Tempest, Violet Vanbrugh and Arthur Williams. In 1946, Laurence Olivier played the role of Mr. Puff in a famous production of the play at the Old Vic, alternating with Sophocles's \"Oedipus Rex\". In 1982, Hywel Bennett starred in a BBC television production which was also broadcast in the U.S., on the A&E channel. While there is no commercially available version of this BBC production, a complete home VCR copy is available on YouTube.\n\nThe play was adapted as an opera in two acts by Sir Charles Villiers Stanford; it received its premiere in London in 1916.\n\nThe Shakespeare Theatre Company, Washington, DC, premiered the play in an updated version by Jeffrey Hatcher on January 5, 2016. The production pairs the play with \"The Real Inspector Hound\" by Tom Stoppard in the same performance, performing \"The Critic\" in the first half, the Stoppard play after intermission. The same double bill was produced at the Guthrie Theater, Minneapolis, MN, opening on February 23, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1267520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1267520", "title": "The Greek Myths", "text": "The Greek Myths\n\nThe Greek Myths (1955) is a mythography, a compendium of Greek mythology, with comments and analyses, by the poet and writer Robert Graves, normally published in two volumes, though there are abridged editions that present the myths only.\n\nEach myth is presented in the voice of a narrator writing under the Antonines, such as Plutarch or Pausanias, with citations of the classical sources. The literary quality of these retellings is generally praised.\n\nEach myth is followed by Graves's interpretation of its origin and significance, following his theories on a prehistoric Matriarchal religion as presented in his book \"White Goddess\" and elsewhere. These theories and his etymologies are generally rejected by classical scholars, but Graves dismissed such criticism, arguing that by definition classical scholars lack \"the poetic capacity to forensically examine mythology\".\n\nGraves interpreted Bronze Age Greece as changing from a matriarchal society under the Pelasgians to a patriarchal one under continual pressure from victorious Greek-speaking tribes. In the second stage local kings came to each settlement as foreign princes, reigned by marrying the hereditary queen, who represented the Triple Goddess, and were ritually slain by the next king after a limited period, originally six months. Kings managed to evade the sacrifice for longer and longer periods, often by sacrificing substitutes, and eventually converted the queen, priestess of the Goddess, into a subservient and chaste wife, and in the final stage had legitimate sons to reign after them.\n\n\"The Greek Myths\" presents the myths as stories from the ritual of all three stages, and often as historical records of the otherwise unattested struggles between Greek kings and the Moon-priestesses. In some cases Graves conjectures a process of \"iconotropy\", or image-turning, by which a hypothetical cult image of the matriarchal or matrilineal period has been misread by later Greeks in their own terms. Thus, for example, he conjectures an image of divine twins struggling in the womb of the Horse-Goddess, which later gave rise to the myth of the Trojan Horse.\n\nGraves's imaginatively reconstructed \"Pelasgian creation myth\" features a supreme creatrix, Eurynome, \"The Goddess of All Things\", who rises naked from Chaos to part sea from sky so that she can dance upon the waves. Catching the north wind at her back and rubbing it between her hands, she warms the \"pneuma\" and spontaneously generates the serpent Ophion, who mates with her. In the form of a dove upon the waves she lays the Cosmic Egg and bids Ophion to incubate it by coiling seven times around until it splits in two and hatches \"all things that exist ... sun, moon, planets, stars, the earth with its mountains and rivers, its trees, herbs, and living creatures\".\n\nIn the soil of Arcadia the Pelasgians spring up from Ophion's teeth, scattered under the heel of Eurynome, who kicked the serpent from their home on Mount Olympus for his boast of having created all things. Eurynome, whose name means \"wide wandering\", sets male and female Titans for each wandering planet: Theia and Hyperion for the Sun; Phoebe and Atlas for the Moon; Metis and Coeus for Mercury; Tethys and Oceanus for Venus; Dione and Crius for Mars; Themis and Eurymedon for Jupiter; and Rhea and Cronus for Saturn.\n\nGraves's retellings have been widely praised as imaginative and poetic, but the scholarship behind his hypotheses and conclusions is generally criticised as idiosyncratic and untenable.\n\nTed Hughes and other poets have found the system of \"The White Goddess\" congenial; \"The Greek Myths\" contains about a quarter of that system, and does not include the method of composing poems.\n\n\"The Greek Myths\" has been heavily criticised both during and after the lifetime of the author. Critics have deprecated Graves's personal interpretations, which are, in the words of one of them, \"either the greatest single contribution that has ever been made to the interpretation of Greek myth or else a farrago of cranky nonsense; I fear that it would be impossible to find any classical scholar who would agree with the former diagnosis\". Graves's etymologies have been questioned, and his largely intuitive division between \"true myth\" and other sorts of story has been viewed as arbitrary, taking myths out of the context in which we now find them. The basic assumption that explaining mythology requires \"any\" \"general hypothesis\", whether Graves's or some other, has also been disputed. The work has been called a compendium of misinterpretations. Sibylle Him refers to Graves' \"creative mishandling of the Greek myths.\" Robin Hard called it \"comprehensive and attractively written,\" but added that \"the interpretive notes are of value only as a guide to the author's personal mythology\". The Disraeli scholar Michel Pharand replies that \"Graves's theories and conclusions, outlandish as they seemed to his contemporaries (or may appear to us), were the result of careful observation.\"\n\nH. J. Rose, agreeing with several of the above critics, questions the scholarship of the retellings. Graves presents \"The Greek Myths\" as an updating of William Smith's \"Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology\" (originally published 1844), which Graves calls \"the standard work in English\", never brought up to date; Rose is dismayed to find no sign that Graves had heard of the \"Oxford Classical Dictionary\" or any of the \"various compendia of mythology, written in, or translated into, our tongue since 1844\". Rose finds many omissions and some clear errors, most seriously Graves's ascribing to Sophocles the argument of his \"Ajax\" (Graves §168.4); this evaluation has been repeated by other critics since.\n\nGraves himself was well aware of scholarly mistrust of \"The Greek Myths\". In a letter to Ava Gardner, he wrote: \"I am not a Greek scholar or an archaeologist or an anthropologist or a comparative mythologist, but I have a good nose and a sense of touch, and think I have connected a lot of mythical patterns which were not connected before, Classical faculties will hate me, and I will get a lot of sniffy reviews.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25855929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25855929", "title": "Theory on immigration to Norway", "text": "Theory on immigration to Norway\n\nThe theory on immigration to Norway () refers to a theory on the origin of the Norwegian people. The theory is mainly associated with Rudolf Keyser, and developed by Peter Andreas Munch.\n\nFollowing studies in Iceland from 1825 to 1827, Rudolf Keyser was appointed as a docent at the Royal Frederick University in Christiania, Norway in 1828. From the same year he worked with, and held lectures on, his theory on immigration to Norway. This theory was inspired by the works of Gerhard Schøning, who had released \"Afhandling om de Norskes og endeel andre Nordiske Folkes Oprindelse\" in 1769, and was first published in 1839 under the name \"Om Nordmændenes Herkomst og Folke-Slægtskab\". In short, his theory stated that Norway as well as Northern Sweden had been populated by indigenous people from the north, whereas Denmark and Southern Sweden (south of Götaland) had been populated from the south. In other words, Norway was especially influenced by \"Norse\" people and culture, whereas parts of Sweden and particularly Denmark were influenced by \"Gothic\" peoples and culture. Norse people had, according to Keyser, drifted south towards Denmark as well, but here they had been mixed with Goths. He later supplemented the theory with a series of lectures in literary studies, printed posthumously, under the name \"Nordmændenes Videnskabelighed og Literatur i Middelalderen\". Here, he stated that Norse literature was not Nordic, but Norwegian. Both the Norse and Gothic groups were taken to be Germanic peoples, having migrated from somewhere in the region of Ural and the Volga River.\n\nPeter Andreas Munch was a student of Keyser, and fellow proponent of the theory. He remarked that Gothic people inhabited some of South Norway as well. He too based the theory partly on linguistic traits, and also stated that the two groups had different approaches to liberty versus hierarchy.\n\nThe theory was ill-received by many historians, especially those who did not subscribe to any form of Norwegian nationalistic agenda. The Danish historian Christian Molbech dubbed Keyser and Munch's viewpoint as \"The Norwegian Historical School\".\n\nThe theory was also denounced by Norwegian historians. A lecture held by Ludvig Kristensen Daa on a Scandinavian conference in 1868 has been called \"the graveside speech for the immigration theory\". He released the work \"Have Germanerne indvandret til Skandinavien fra nord eller syd?\" in 1869.\n"}
{"id": "9012736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9012736", "title": "Why Paint Cats", "text": "Why Paint Cats\n\nWhy Paint Cats is a humorous book written by New Zealand author Burton Silver and illustrator Heather Busch. It is one of three cat art books, including \"Why Cats Paint\" and \"Dancing with Cats\". The book purports to describe the practice of \"cat painting\", the decorating of cats with paint. Some readers were concerned at the dangers of applying paint to cats, but the book's depictions are digitally manipulated.\n\nCritical reception for the book has been mixed to positive, with the SF site calling it \"luscious, funny, and really, truly amazing\". Publishers Weekly wrote that the book was \"amusing as a novelty item\" and that it was \"so weird that it's sort of irresistible.\" The Hamilton Spectator stated that the book's contents were \"spectacular\". The Los Angeles Times wrote that Silver's writing was \"tongue-in-cheek scholarly, complete with footnotes and a bibliography\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3531135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3531135", "title": "William Zeitlin", "text": "William Zeitlin\n\nWilliam Zeitlin (c. 1850 – 1921, in Leipzig) was a Russian scholar and bibliographer born at Homel, government (\"guberniya\") of Moghilef, about the middle of the 19th century. He is known especially as the author of \"Kiryat Sefer,\" or \"Bibliotheca Hebraica Post-Mendelssohniana\" (Leipzig, 1891–95), a bibliographical dictionary of modern Hebrew literature from the beginning of Moses Mendelssohn's epoch until 1890. The compilation of this work occupied Zeitlin for twenty years. He made extensive use of Benjacob's \"Otzar ha-Sefarim\" and of Fürst's \"Bibliotheca Judaica\", and visited Vilna and Warsaw, the centers of the Hebrew book market, as well as many university cities—as Königsberg, Berlin, Geneva, and Paris—from the libraries of which he gathered additional material for his work.\n\nThe \"Qiryat Sefer\" indexes not only works in book form, but also important periodical articles, biographical sketches, and scientific essays, in addition to giving biographical notes on several authors. Zeitlin had previously prepared an index of works written on the Hebrew calendar, in which he enumerates seventy-seven Hebrew works; this index was published by Chayyim Jonah Gurland in \"Yevreiski Kalendar\" (St. Petersburg, 1882). In the \"Zeit. für Hebr. Bibl.\" (ix.3-4) Zeitlin has published an alphabetical list of anagrams and pseudonyms of modern Hebrew writers; he was also a contributor to several Hebrew periodicals, writing mostly biographical articles.\n\n"}
