{"id": "90514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90514", "title": "Agwé", "text": "Agwé\n\nAgwé (also spelt Goue, Agoueh, or Agive), is a loa who rules over the sea, fish, and aquatic plants, as well as the patron loa of fishermen and sailors in Vodou, especially in Haiti. He is considered to be married to Erzulie Freda and La Sirene. He goes by several titles, including \"koki la me\" (\"Shell of the Sea\"), \"koki dore\" (\"Golden Shell\"), \"The Angel in the Mirror\", \"The Eel\", and \"The Tadpole in the Pond\".\n\nMet Agwe is the Loa of direction. His territory is the winds and the currents, waves and depths of the oceans. He helps sailors find their bearings when lost at sea. He provides inspiration and guidance whenever an individual needs them in times of turmoil, loss, or indecision. He lives in a glorious palace under the seas. Patron of sailors, sea travelers and pirates.\n\nAgwe Arroyo or Agwe Tawoyo / Agwe 'Woyo (\"Agwe of the Streams\") is captain of \"Immamou\", the ship that carries the dead to \"Guinee\", the afterlife. He cries salt-water tears for the departed. He assisted the souls of those that suffered crimes against humanity during the trans-atlantic slave trade.\n\nPapa Agwe is envisioned as a handsome African man with green eyes, sometimes lighter skin, often wearing a naval officer's or sailor's uniform. He is considered to be a gentleman who commands respect and embodies several ideals of masculinity including bravery, reserve and provision.\n\nAgwe Flambeau (\"Agwe of the Torch\") is from a realm of boiling water, like a hot springs or an underwater volcanic eruption. He is appealed to give rivals bad luck in fishing or sailing. He is also invoked to avoid or remove bad luck at sea, to avoid sinking or drowning, or to stop or prevent rough seas and bad storms.\n\nAgwe Ge-Rouge (\"Agwe of the Red Eyes\")\n\nHis colours are blue, white, and occasionally sea-green or brown. His \"veve\" (ritual symbol) is a boat with sails. His symbols are painted shells, painted oars, and sealife like the seahorse and starfish. He is syncretised with the Catholic saint Ulrich of Augsburg and occasionally the archangel Raphael, both of whom are depicted holding fish. His holy day is Thursday.\n\nHe is saluted or signaled with blowing on a conch shell and/or volleys of gunfire. When he possesses a devotee he often pushes himself around the temple on a chair (his boat) with a cane (his oar), shouting naval commands and saluting members of the congregation. His \"chevals\" (\"horses\", or possessed devotees) need to be kept moist with wet sponges or damp towels and have to be kept from running into the sea, where Agwe belongs.\n\nSmall offerings to Agwe are poured or dropped overboard in deep ocean water. Large offerings to Agwe are left on constructed rafts (\"barques d'Agwe\") which are floated or towed out to sea. If the raft sinks, it is accepted; if it returns to shore it is rejected. After the offering is left, the supplicants cannot look back at that place or it will anger Agwe. \"Chevals\" must be prevented from falling or leaping into the sea and drowning, as it would offend Agwe. Nothing toxic (lead pipes, cement bags, garbage) must be used to weigh down the raft; if it will hurt or pollute the sea, it will anger Agwe.\n\nHis offerings include: \n\nHe is rarely offered seafood. If it is offered (perhaps to celebrate a bountiful year, good fortune, or a joyous occasion) it must be prepared and then cooked in a pan or oven. Then (to be fit for the table of the King of the Sea) it must be served on a white china dish with blue patterns.\n\nAgwe's ship is crewed by other Loa as well:\n\nAt Agwe's ceremonies, they arrive first to make sure the place is fit for \"The Admiral\".\n\n\"Agwe\" is also a character in the musical \"Once on This Island\" as the god of water. A recent appearance of Agwé on stage was Once On This Island where he was one of the four gods: Asaka (Azaka) Mother of Earth, Agwé God of Water, Erzulie Goddess of Love and Papa Gé (Papa Ghede) Demon of Death.\n"}
{"id": "2200135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200135", "title": "Antoine Joseph Santerre", "text": "Antoine Joseph Santerre\n\nAntoine Joseph Santerre (16 March 1752 in Paris6 February 1809) was a businessman and general during the French Revolution.\n\nThe Santerre family moved from Saint-Michel-en-Thiérache to Paris in 1747 where they purchased a brewery known as the \"Brasserie de la Magdeleine\". Antoine Santerre married his third cousin Marie Claire Santerre, daughter of a wealthy bourgeois brewer, Jean François Santerre, from the Cambrai in March 1748. The couple had six children, Antoine Joseph being the 3rd. The others were Marguerite, born in 1750; Jean Baptiste, born in 1751; Armand Théodore, born in 1753; followed by François and Claire. The future general's father died in 1770, his mother just months later. His elder brother and sister, Marguerite and Jean Baptiste took charge of the household and family business, helping their mother raise the younger children, they never married. Armand Théodore went into the sugar business, and owned a factory in Essonnes, the other members of the family remained in the brewery business. François, known as François Santerre de la Fontinelle, had breweries in Sèvres, Chaville and Paris and Claire, the youngest, married a lawyer. Antoine Joseph was sent to school at the collèges des Grassins, followed by history and physics under M.M. Brisson and the abbot Nollet. His interest in physics led advances in beer production that pushed breweries out of their infancy.\nIn 1770 Antoine Joseph was emancipated, and 2 years later, with his inheritance he purchased with his brother François Mr. Acloque's brewery at 232 Faubourg St. Antoine for 65,000 French Francs. In that same year he married his childhood sweetheart, the daughter of his neighbour, Monsieur Francois, another wealthy brewer. Antoine Joseph was 20 years old and Marie François was sixteen. Marie died the following year from an infection derived from a fall during her 7th month of pregnancy.\nYears later Antoine Joseph married Marie Adèlaïde Deleinte with whom he had three children, Augustin, Alexandre and Theodore.\n\nHis generosity won great popularity in the Faubourg St. Antoine. When the French Revolution erupted in 1789, he was given command of a battalion of the Parisian National Guard and participated in the storming of the Bastille. After the Champ de Mars Massacre on 17 July 1791, a warrant was issued for his arrest and Santerre went into hiding. He emerged again the following year to lead the people of the Faubourg St. Antoine, the eastern units, in the assault on the Tuileries Palace by the Paris mob, which overwhelmed and massacred the Swiss Guard as the royal family fled through the gardens and took refuge with the Legislative Assembly. Louis XVI was officially removed as king soon after.\n\nSanterre was appointed by the National Convention to serve as the jailer of the former king. He notified Louis that the motion had passed for his execution, and the next day, at eight o'clock on a 21 January morning, Santerre arrived at the convicted man's room and said, \"Monsieur, it's time to go\". He escorted Louis XVI through the some eighty thousand armed men and countless citizens down the streets of Paris to the guillotine. There are differing accounts of his conduct at the execution itself. According to some, he ordered a drum roll halfway through the king's speech in order to drown out his voice. Others say that it was actually General J.F. Berruyer – the man in command of the execution – who ordered the drum roll, and that Santerre only relayed the order. Santerre's family maintained, however, that he actually silenced the drums so that Louis could speak to the people.\n\nSanterre was promoted to General of a division of the Parisian National Guard in July 1793. When the revolts broke out in the Vendée, Santerre took command of a force sent in to put a stop to the rebellions. He was not as successful as a military commander in the field; his first military operation saw the defeat of the Republican forces at Saumur. After the battle, reports circulated that Santerre himself had been killed; the Royalists even composed a humorous epitaph about his death. Nor was Santerre popular among the \"sans-culottes\" he commanded. Wounded soldiers returning to Paris reported that he was living in Oriental luxury and complained that their defeat was due either to his treason or his incompetence. Some demanded that he be relieved of his command or even sent to the guillotine. On the other hand, Santerre was not in supreme command, and not considered responsible for the outcome of the war.\n\nIn October, Santerre returned to Paris, where his popularity in the Faubourg St. Antoine was undiminished. Nevertheless, his report on this expedition, in which he drew attention to the plight of the Republican army in the Vendée, aroused suspicion. Accused of being a Royalist due to his lack of glory during the battles in the Vendée, he was arrested in April 1794 and was imprisoned until the fall of Robespierre. Upon his release, he resigned his command and attempted to return to business, but his brewery was ruined. He died in poverty in Paris on 6 February 1809.\n\n"}
{"id": "22702262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22702262", "title": "Bakul Harshadrai Dholakia", "text": "Bakul Harshadrai Dholakia\n\nBakul Harshadrai Dholakia (born 15 July 1947) is the Former Director General of International Management Institute, New Delhi. He is best known for his time at IIM Ahmedabad, where he was the Director (2002–2007). Prior to that, he was the Dean at Ahmedabad (1998–2001) and a professor in Economics Prior to joining IMI New Delhi, he was the Director of Adani Institute of Infrastructure Management and Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhuj.\n\nDholakia is a Gold Medalist from Baroda University and holds a Doctorate in Economics. He has 45 years of teaching experience, including 33 years at IIM Ahmedabad.\nHe has served as a board member of the Reserve Bank of India Western Area Local Board from 1993 to 2001. He has guided 20 PhD students specialising in Economics, Finance, Business Policy and Public Systems at IIM A.\nHe was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 2007 for his contributions in the field of Literature and Education.\n\nBakul Dholakia had completed his PhD in Economics from The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda in 1973 at the age of 26 years. His thesis topic was \"Sources of Economic Growth in India\". He was subsequently awarded a University Grants Commission Fellowship.\nDholakia had secured a master's degree (M.A.) in Economics with specialisation in Econometrics from Baroda University in 1969. He was awarded the Gold Medal for securing the First Rank in the course. He was also awarded a Merit Scholarship by the Government of India.\nDholakia completed a bachelor's degree (B.A.) course in economics with mathematics as the minor subject from Baroda University in 1967 and secured the first rank throughout the course. He was awarded the B.A. Merit Scholarship by the The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda.\n\nDholakia has 45 years of experience in the education domain including 33 years at IIM Ahmedabad. During his time at IIM Ahmedabad, Dholakia occupied the Reserve Bank of India Chair from 1992 to 1999, served as the Dean from 1998 to 2001 and as the Director of the Institute from 2002 to 2007.\nHe has guided 20 PhD students specialising in Economics, Finance, Business Policy and Public Systems at IIM A. Dholakia had served as the Chairman of the MBA Program and also as the Chairman of Economics Area. Raghuram Rajan, Nachiket Mor and popular commentator Harsha Bhogle are some of his students.\n\nDholakia had taught several courses during his time as a professor in IIM Ahmedabad. For the Post Graduate Programme (MBA) students, he had offered courses such as Economic Analysis for Business Planning, Managerial Economics, Economic Environment and Policy and Econometric Analysis for Management Decisions.\nHe had also taught courses such as Micro-economic Theory, Macroeconomic Theory and Economic Growth and Planning to students of the Doctoral Programme at IIM A. He received the \"Best Professor Award\" for teaching in the MBA Program.\n\nDholakia was involved in teaching assignments in Senior Management Development Programs at IIM Ahmedabad. He offered courses on several modules of Economics such as Managerial Economics, Structural Analysis of Industries, Analysis of Union Budget, Industrial Policy, Demand Forecasting etc.\nMany of these MDP groups have greatly appreciated his teaching methods including the Top Management Programme, the Senior Executive Programme, the Middle Management Programme, Management Education Programme, Commonwealth Programme on Economic Management and Planning, Advanced Management Programme for Public Enterprises, International Programme on Management of Economic Policy Reforms, etc.\n\nDholakia was the Dean at Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad from April 1998 to June 2001. His tenure as director began in October 2002. Under him, IIM-A went from having 12 partner institutions for student exchange programmes to 50 by 2006–07. During his tenure, the one-year programme for management executives was started, and students in the very first batch got the highest salaries offered that year. Dholakia was pivotal in ensuring that the image of IIM-A did not suffer when, in November 2003, the Common Admission Test (CAT) papers got leaked for the first time in the 43-year history of the IIMs. Dholakia opposed the then HRD Minister's decision to ask the IIMs to cut their fees, and as a mark of protest, rejected a Rs 100 million (Rs 100 million) grant IIM-A got from the ministry. He subsequently made sure the institute became self-sufficient.\nDholakia had been associated with the Adani Group since December 2007. He had been the Director of Adani Institute of Infrastructure Management and Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhuj. He is presently the Director General of International Management Institute, New Delhi.\n\nDholakia was a board member of the Reserve Bank of India Western Area Board from 1993 to 2001.\nHe was appointed by the Government of India as the Chairman of the National Board of Accreditation for Technical Education in India (2005–2008). He has also served as External Director on the boards of several public and private sector companies, including ONGC, Shipping Commission, Torrent Power, RNRL and Mahanagar Gas. He was also on the board of Arvind, Ashima and L&T Power.\nOver the last two decades, Dholakia has worked on numerous government committees, the recent ones being the Rangarajan Committee on Pricing and Taxation on Petroleum Products (2006) and the Expert Group on Pension Fund constituted by the Government of India (2009). The Competition Commission of India had appointed Dholakia as a member of the Eminent Persons Advisory Group (EPAG). Dholakia was associated with the Indian Council of Social Science Research, Government of India, where he was one of the three members responsible for the restructuring of the ICSSR. He has also served as a consultant to the World Bank, Mangalore Stock Exchange, Gujarat Electricity Board, Steel Authority of India Ltd., Gujarat Heavy Chemicals Ltd. etc.\n\nDholakia was awarded the Padma Shri for Literature and Education in 2007.\nIn 2008, Dholakia was conferred the Bharat Asmita National Award by the Honorable Chief Justice of India. In 2006, he was honoured by the Association of Indian Americans in North America (AIANA) at the World Gujarati Conference in New Jersey for his Visionary Leadership and Achievements in business education. Global Associations of Business Schools have honoured Dholakia for his sterling contribution in the field of management education. The Global Foundation for Management Education (GFME), jointly formed by the Associations of American and European Business Schools, has nominated Dholakia as a Member of the Board of GFME representing Asia. He has won the Best Professor Award for teaching in Post Graduate Program in IIM Ahmedabad.\n\nDr. Bakul Dholakia’s wife Sudha completed her master's degree in Economics from The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda in 1974; they met for the first time in Baroda University and tied the wedding knot in 1975. Their elder daughter Jigisha after completing her post-graduation in India has settled in Canada. Their younger daughter Purvi has also moved to Canada recently and completed a Post-Graduate Management Program from University of the Fraser Valley. Currently, Purvi is working in a consultancy company in Burnaby.\n\nDholakia is the author of 12 books, 25 monographs and more than 50 research papers and over 30 case notes published in professional journals in India and abroad.\n\nDholakia has authored/co-authored the following 12 books:\n\nDholakia has authored/co-authored the following Monographs:\n\nDholakia has been the author/co-author of the following Research Papers published in professional journals, edited volumes or periodicals:\n\nDholakia has authored the following Cases and Technical Notes used in MBA programme as well as various Executive Development Programmes conducted by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.\n\nInternational cases\n\n\nCases on Indian Industries\n\nOther Cases and Technical Notes\n\n"}
{"id": "11280755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11280755", "title": "Bill Horton (Days of Our Lives)", "text": "Bill Horton (Days of Our Lives)\n\nDr. William \"Bill\" Horton is a fictional character from the American NBC daytime soap opera, \"Days of Our Lives\". He is a surgeon, and is one of the five children of the show's original couple, Dr Tom and Alice Horton. Bill was a main character on \"Days of Our Lives\" for its first fifteen years. The role is most associated with actor Edward Mallory, who portrayed the character for the greatest time.\n\nPaul Carr originated the role, playing Bill from December 22, 1965 to January 3, 1966. The character was re-introduced on June 21 1966, when Edward Mallory began an almost fourteen year run as Bill, playing him through to April 14, 1980. The character returned in the late eighties, when Christopher Stone played Bill for a six-month stint from September 11 1987 to March 17 1988. Mallory reprised playing Bill in guest appearances from July 1 to 3, 1991, and then again in a short-term recurring capacity from October 15, 1992 to January 5, 1993. Stone also returned for a short stint from March 10 to July 19, 1994. Then, after a character-absence of nearly sixteen years, and after the deaths of the previous actors, John H. Martin appeared as Bill from June 15 to 28, 2010, for the funeral of Bill's mother, Alice Horton.\n\nNamed after his grandfather, Bill Horton is the youngest son of the Horton children; his siblings include Tom Horton Jr., Mickey Horton, Addie Horton, and Marie Horton. Bill (Paul Carr), an aspiring surgeon, initially appears at Christmas 1965, on vacation from medical school.\n\nIn June 1966, Bill (now Edward Mallory) takes his first job at Salem University Hospital, where his father works. Here he meets Dr. Laura Spencer, a young psychiatric intern, and begins dating her. His brother Mickey is also interested in Dr. Spencer. Although this causes problems with Mickey, Laura and Bill soon become engaged. Bill is stricken with bone tuberculosis of the hand and it appears as though he will never be able to be a surgeon. Bill is devastated and leaves Salem, to sort out his future and eventually take a medical position in another town.\n\nIn late 1967 Bill returns to Salem along with his friend Dr. Mark Brooks (later revealed to be his brother Tommy) and a little boy named Timmy McCall. Bill was living with the McCall family when Timmy's mother Mary died. Before passing Mary made Bill promise to become Timmy's guardian. Bill had met Mark Brooks through Mary, and it was Mark who encouraged Bill to undergo therapy to regain control of his hand. When Timmy McCall needed his appendix removed Bill performed the surgery, and then knew he would be able to return to Salem and continue his surgical career.\n\nWhile Bill was out of town, his brother Mickey, and his ex-fiancé Laura became closer and became engaged. After Mickey and Laura wed, Bill is consumed with jealousy, and one night, while drunk, Bill rapes Laura in her office. When he awakes the next morning Bill cannot remember anything that happened; and Laura tells him she turned him away, in order to prevent a feud between Mickey, her husband, and Bill.\n\nLaura soon becomes pregnant. Tom finds out about the pregnancy from a lab report and also discovers that Mickey is sterile. Laura explains to Tom that Bill raped her while he was drunk and that she didn't tell Mickey in order to prevent any fighting between the two. Tom agrees to keep the secret. Bill has also read the report about Mickey's infertility, but keeps it to himself because he feels it best that no one know. Laura soon delivers the baby, Michael William Horton (known later as Mike), on September 28, 1968.\n\nEveryones happiness is ruined when Bill learns that Kitty Horton, Tommy's ex-wife, has a tape recording of Laura and Tom talking about Michael in which they reveal Bill is Michael's natural father. Bill goes to Kitty's apartment, and ransacks it and fights with Kitty before finding the tape and leaving. Shockingly, Kitty is killed later that night, and Bill is charged with Kitty's murder. Mickey, who is a lawyer, defends Bill in court. Bill refuses to tell anyone why he was at Kitty's place that night, and eventually he is found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and sentenced to three years in prison.\n\nIn prison Bill meets Doug Williams, and his stories of Salem and a rich widowed Susan Martin, would send Doug to Salem after he is released. Near the end of 1970, Bill is released from prison and later begins seeing his brother's secretary Linda Patterson.\n\nIn 1972 Bill and Laura begin to fall in love when Laura learns the true reason Bill went to jail. Laura plans to divorce Mickey and marry Bill. When the two are overheard talking by young Mike, Mike assumes they are having an affair and runs out into the street and is hit by a car. Mike survives, but afterwards he tells his \"Uncle Bill\" that he hates him and needs to stay away from his family.\n\nIn 1973 Mickey suffers a massive coronary, but with Bill's skilled hands he manages to save his brothers life. Soon after his operation Mickey suddenly disappears from Salem. With Mickey out of town Bill is free to pursue Laura, but her marriage to Mickey still stands in the way. Mickey is discovered to be alive, but he has amnesia, and he grants Laura a divorce so he could remain with Maggie Simmons.\n\nOn December 4, 1975, after years of pursuing one another, Bill and Laura Horton marry. In January 1976 the truth about Mike's parentage comes out when Mike is injured while repairing a truck on Maggie Simmons' farm. Mickey and Laura both donate blood to save Mike's life, but neither match. Mickey finds out through Bill's medical records that Bill is a match, and Mickey's memory quickly floods back. Mickey is enraged and buys a gun and goes after Bill. Mickey waits for Bill to come home, and when he does they both fight over the gun. Bill ends up being shot in the arm, and Mickey suffers a mental breakdown. Mickey is admitted to Belview Sanitarium for one year following the incident. Bill's gunshot injury causes nerve damage and impaired feeling and use of his right hand, and he has to quit being a surgeon. Laura gives birth to their daughter Jennifer Rose Horton on September 11, 1976. After the birth, Laura falls into a deep depression, but she overcomes it with Bill and Dr. Marlena Evans help.\n\nIn 1977, Bill begins retraining as an anesthesiologist, and becomes friends with the Head of Anesthesiology, Dr. Kate Winograd, and they start falling for each other. When a young inexperienced resident surgeon panics in the operating room and walks out, Bill is forced to perform life-saving brain surgery with the assistance of Kate. Thanks to the physiotherapy Bill has been doing for his hand, Bill is able to do the surgery and save the life of the patient, Fred Barton. However, Barton is paralyzed from the waist down, and sues the hospital, Bill and Kate. (The young surgeon who walked out lies, and said Bill threw him out of the operating room). Bill and Kate are fired, and Barton sues for $2 million. Their joint situation causes Bill and Kate to become close to each other, and Laura is jealous. Bill and Laura's marriage is in trouble, and Bill moves out of their home, and stays at the Salem Inn. Bill tries to pursue a relationship with Kate, but Kate does not want to be his mistress. Barton's paralysis turns out to be psychological, and when he walks into the courtroom, the case against Bill and Kate is thrown out. Bill embraces and kisses Kate in celebration, but Bill later apologises to Kate for his behavior, saying he loves Laura. Kate leaves town, and Bill and Laura repair their marriage.\n\nIn 1979 Laura's mentally-ill mother kills herself, and Laura is traumatized and begins having hallucinations of her mom. Laura herself has a mental breakdown, and when she hallucinates her mom telling her to join her, Laura overdoses and tries to hang herself. Bill and Alice rescue her in the nick of time. Bill is forced to commit his wife to a sanitarium. In 1980, Bill leaves Salem to be nearer to the sanitarium, and leaves his daughter Jennifer in the care of Tom and Alice.\n\nBill (now Christopher Stone) returns in 1987 and begins dating Janice Barnes. He eventually breaks things off when his guilt about Laura grows too strong. Bill focuses his attention on his daughter Jennifer and tries to put an end to his daughter's relationship with Frankie Brady. Jennifer retaliates by becoming engaged to Frankie, but breaks it off when she fears she may become schizophrenic like her mother and grandmother.\n\nBill returns briefly in 1994 when Laura comes home from the sanitarium. Bill also wants to meet his son Lucas, his illegitimate son with Kate Roberts, but is coldly greeted by the young man who is angry because he grew up without a dad. Bill relocates to Africa to be a volunteer doctor. Jennifer and her partner Jack Deveraux, and their daughter Abigail join him in Africa for a while.\n\nBill (John H. Martin) and his now ex-wife Laura visit Salem again in June 2010 when they receive news that Bill's mother, Alice Horton, is extremely ill.\n\nHorton Family\n\n"}
{"id": "36877068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36877068", "title": "Business career of Mitt Romney", "text": "Business career of Mitt Romney\n\nThe business career of Mitt Romney began shortly after he finished graduate school in 1975. At that time, Romney entered the management consulting industry, and in 1977 secured a position at Bain & Company. Later serving as its chief executive officer, he helped bring the company out of financial crisis. In 1984, he co-founded and led the spin-off Bain Capital, a private equity investment firm that became highly profitable and one of the largest such firms in the nation. The fortune he earned from his business career is estimated at $190–250 million.\n\nAfter he received a joint Juris Doctor and Master of Business Administration from Harvard University in 1975, Mitt Romney was recruited by several firms and chose to remain in Massachusetts to work for Boston Consulting Group (BCG), reasoning that working as a management consultant to a variety of companies would better prepare him for a future position as a chief executive. He was part of a 1970s wave of top graduates who chose to go into consulting rather than join a major company directly.\n\nRomney had his pick of jobs at the nation’s biggest and most prestigious consulting firms, and at that time BCG was neither. Its idiosyncratic founder, Bruce Henderson, was regarded as outside the mainstream of corporate consulting, and BCG was routinely disparaged by faculty and students at Harvard Business School. But BCG was a pioneering upstart that fostered camaraderie among its employees, who traveled around the country to advise clients, and that is where Mitt Romney chose to start his career. His legal and business education proved useful in his job while he applied BCG principles such as the growth-share matrix, which is a simple chart to assist large corporations in deciding how to allocate cash among their business units. He was viewed as having a bright future there. Romney worked nights and weekends, and traveled frequently in the U.S. and to Europe on business.\n\nIn 1977, he was hired by Bain & Company, a management consulting firm in Boston that had been formed a few years earlier by Bill Bain and other former BCG employees. Bain would later say of the thirty-year-old Romney, \"He had the appearance of confidence of a guy who was maybe ten years older.\" Unlike other consulting firms, which issued recommendations and then left, Bain & Company had a practice, that Romney learned, of immersing itself in a client's business and working with them until changes were implemented.\n\nGeoffrey Rehnert, who also worked at Bain & Company,\n\nRomney aspired to start a new business, and in 1983, Bill Bain offered him the chance to head a new venture that would buy into companies, have them benefit from Bain consulting techniques, and allow the venture's partners to reap higher rewards than consulting fees. He initially refrained from accepting the offer, and Bain re-arranged the terms in a complicated partnership structure so that there was no financial or professional risk to Romney. Thus, in 1984, Romney left Bain & Company to co-found the spin-off private equity investment firm, Bain Capital.\n\nBain Capital was founded in 1984 by Bain & Company partners Mitt Romney, T. Coleman Andrews III, and Eric Kriss. In addition to the three founding partners, the early team included Geoffrey S. Rehnert and others from Bain & Company.\nRomney initially had the titles of president and managing general partner (or managing partner). He later was referred to as managing director or CEO as well. He was also the sole shareholder of the firm. At the beginning, the firm had fewer than ten employees.\nWhen new employees were hired, they were generally in their twenties and top-ranked graduates from Stanford University or Harvard University, both of which Romney had attended.\n\nIn the face of skepticism from potential investors, Romney and his partners spent a year raising the $37 million in funds needed to start the new operation.\nEarly investors also included members of elite Salvadoran families who fled the country's civil war. They and other wealthy Latin Americans invested $9 million primarily through offshore companies registered in Panama.\n\nWhile Bain Capital was founded by Bain executives, the firm was not an affiliate or a division of Bain & Company but rather a completely separate company. Initially, the two firms shared the same offices – in an office tower at Copley Place in Boston – and a similar approach to improving business operations. However, the two firms had put in place certain protections to avoid sharing information between the two companies and the Bain & Company executives had the ability to veto investments that posed potential conflicts of interest. Bain Capital also provided an investment opportunity for partners of Bain & Company. Bain Capital's original $37 million fund was raised entirely from private individuals in mid-1984. The firm initially gave a cut of its profits to Bain & Company, but Romney later persuaded Bill Bain to give that up.\n\nThe Bain Capital team was initially reluctant to invest its capital. By 1985, things were going poorly enough that Romney considered closing the operation, returning investors' money back to them, and having the partners go back to their old positions. The partners saw weak spots in so many potential deals that by 1986, very few had been done. At first, Bain Capital focused on venture capital opportunities. One of Bain's earliest and most notable venture investments was in Staples, Inc., the office supply retailer. In 1986, Bain provided $4.5 million to two supermarket executives, Leo Kahn and Thomas G. Stemberg, to open an office supply supermarket in Brighton, Massachusetts. The fast-growing retail chain went public in 1989; by 1996, the company had grown to over 1,100 stores, and by 2008, over 2,000 stores. Bain Capital eventually reaped a nearly sevenfold return on its investment, and Romney sat on the Staples board of directors for over a decade. Another very successful investment occurred in 1986 when $1 million was invested in medical equipment maker Calumet Coach, which eventually returned $34 million. A few years later, Bain Capital made an investment in the technology research outfit the Gartner Group, which ended up returning a 16-fold gain.\n\nBain invested the $37 million of capital in its first fund in twenty companies and by 1989 was generating an annualized return in excess of 50 percent. By the end of the decade, Bain's second fund, raised in 1987 had deployed $106 million into 13 investments. As the firm began organizing around funds, each such fund was run by a specific general partnership – that included all Bain Capital executives as well as others – which in turn was controlled by Bain Capital Inc., the management company that Romney had full ownership control of. As CEO, Romney had the final approval say on every deal made.\n\nIn 1987, former Herman's World of Sporting Goods CEO Jack Smith made a pitch to Romney, and Bain joined several other backers to help Smith open nine sporting-goods mega stores. Kmart bought the Sports Authority chain for $75 million.\n\nRomney discovered few investment opportunities himself (and those that he did, often failed to make money for the firm). Instead, he focused on analyzing the merits of possible deals that others brought forward and on recruiting investors to participate in them once approved. The firm initially gave a cut of its profits to Bain & Company, but Romney persuaded Bain to give that up. Within Bain Capital, Romney spread profits from deals widely within the firm to keep people motivated, often keeping less than ten percent for himself. Viewed as a fair manager, he received considerable loyalty from the firm's members.\nRomney's wary instincts were still in force at times, and he was generally data-driven and averse to risk.\n\nHe wanted to drop a Bain Capital hedge fund that initially lost money, but other partners prevailed and it eventually gained billions. Romney was on the board of directors of Damon Corporation, a medical testing company later found guilty of defrauding the government; Bain Capital tripled its investment before selling off the company, and the fraud was discovered by the new owners (Romney was never implicated). In some cases, Romney had little involvement with a company once acquired. Beginning in 1989, the firm, which began as a venture capital source investing in start-up companies, adjusted its strategy to focus on leveraged buyouts and growth capital investments in more mature companies. Their model was to buy existing firms with money mostly borrowed against their assets, partner with existing management to apply Bain methodology to their operations (rather than the hostile takeovers practiced in other leverage buyout scenarios), and sell them off in a few years. Existing CEOs were offered large equity stakes in the process, owing to Bain Capital's belief in the emerging agency theory that CEOs should be bound to maximizing shareholder value rather than other goals. By the end of 1990, Bain had raised $175 million of capital and financed 35 companies with combined revenues of $3.5 billion.\n\nIn 1990, Romney was asked to return to Bain & Company, which was facing financial collapse. He was announced as its new CEO in January 1991 but drew only a symbolic salary of one dollar (he remained managing general partner of Bain Capital during this time). His turnaround of Bain & Company has been identified as a primary example of Romney's turnaround talents from the business world, and Romney says there was no upside for him personally: \"There was no particular reason to do it other than a sense of obligation and duty to an organization that had done great things for me and which employed a thousand people.\" However, once Romney took up the challenge, his stake in success became enormous, and his reputation would have been diminished if Bain & Company went bankrupt. He proceeded to apply the \"Bain way\" to Bain & Company itself.\n\nBringing along two lieutenants from Bain Capital, Romney began a traveling campaign to rally employees at all Bain offices globally. Romney also negotiated a complex settlement between the Bain partnership and the firm's lenders, including a $10 million reduction in the $38 million Bain owed the Bank of New England, which by that time had been seized by the FDIC and placed in Chapter 7 liquidation. Romney was able to negotiate this reduction in the debt amount with the FDIC by warning that he would use the remaining cash that Bain & Company had on hand as bonuses for Bain executives, starting with VPs making $200,000 and up. This was a costly deal for the FDIC, but Romney's brinksmanship worked, at no expense to taxpayers. Romney’s plan involved \"a complicated restructuring of the firm's stock-ownership plan, real-estate holdings, bank loans, and money still owed to partners\". To avoid the financial crisis that a buyout would have triggered, the group of founding partners agreed to return about $100M cash and forgive outstanding debt.\n\nRomney also imposed a new governing structure that included Bain and the other founding partners giving up control, and increasing fiscal transparency. Within about a year, he had led Bain & Company through a successful turnaround and returned the firm to profitability without further layoffs or partner defections. He turned Bain & Company over to new leadership and returned to Bain Capital in December 1992.\n\nSome of the techniques that Romney employed during this temporary mission at Bain & Company were as follows: at the outset, he demanded unanimous approval from the partners at Bain & Company for his designation as CEO, and also demanded that each partner commit to staying at least a year so as to give the turnaround a fair chance. He limited partner meetings to Saturdays, so that all of the weekdays could be devoted to taking care of client business. Romney reduced the company's physical space, evaluated which partners were producing and which were not, arranged bridge financing, and focused on hiring top talent from top schools, while rescinding prior offers that were not up to standard.\n\nAlthough in the role for just two years before returning to Bain Capital, Romney's work had three profound impacts on the firm. First, ownership was officially shifted from the owners to the firm's 70 general partners. Second, transparency in the firm's finances increased dramatically (e.g. partners were able to know each other's salaries). Third, Bill Bain relinquished ownership in the firm that carried his name.\nWithin a year, Bain bounced back to profitability without major partner defections, and the groundwork was laid for a period of steady growth.\n\nAfter Romney and Bain took over Brookstone in 1991, they replaced Brookstone's CEO in 1993, shifted to more Brookstone-branded items, moved more catalog content onto the company's website in 1996, and, instead of selling gifts began offering more practical items. Brookstone survived while its competitor, Sharper Image, declared bankruptcy.\n\nIn July 1992 (while Romney was still rescuing Bain & Company), Bain Capital acquired Ampad from Mead Corporation, which had acquired the company in 1986. Mead, which was experiencing difficulties integrating Ampad's products into its existing product lines, generated a cash gain of $56 million on the sale. Under Bain's ownership, the company enjoyed a significant growth in sales from $106.7 million in 1992 to $583.9 million in 1996, when the company was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Under Bain's ownership, the company also made a number of acquisitions, including writing products company SCM in July 1994, brand names from the American Trading and Production Corporation in August 1995, WR Acquisition and the Williamhouse-Regency Division of Delaware, Inc. in October, 1995, Niagara Envelope Company, Inc. in 1996, and Shade/Allied, Inc. in February 1997. Ampad's revenue began to decline in 1997 and the company laid off employees and closed production facilities to maintain profitability. The Ampad transaction is one of Romney's few regrets from his Bain years.\n\nIn 1994, Bain Capital acquired Totes, a producer of umbrellas and overshoes. Three years later, Totes, under Bain’s ownership, acquired Isotoner, a producer of leather gloves. Totes Isotoner is now the largest supplier of umbrellas in the world.\n\nBain Capital, together with Thomas H. Lee Partners, acquired Experian, the consumer credit reporting business of TRW, in 1996 for more than $1 billion. Formerly known as TRW's Information Systems and Services unit, Experian is one of the leading providers of credit reports on consumers and businesses in the US. The company was sold to Great Universal Stores for $1.7 billion just months after being acquired.\n\nOther notable Bain investments of the late 1990s included Sealy Corporation (the manufacturer of mattresses), Alliance Laundry Systems, Domino's Pizza, and Artisan Entertainment. The Sealy and Domino's Pizza investments have been ranked by \"TheStreet.com\" as two of the five Romney-era investments by Bain Capital that had the biggest impact on American consumers; the other three were Staples and Sports Authority in the 1980s, and Brookstone in 1991. In 1997, when Bain invested in Sealy, the company already had a 23% share of the $4 billion mattress market, and Bain decided to make all parts of the mattress in a constant flow instead of in batches (thereby producing only the amount ordered by consumers and consequently reducing inventory), while redesigning the core mattress; Sealy's earnings increased by half in three years. Bain bought 93% of Domino's in 1998, and installed personnel who substantially boosted profits. As for Bain's purchase of film studio Artisan Entertainment in the late 1990s, Romney refused to get personally involved with it, because of its R-rated films.\n\nMuch of the firm's profits were earned from a relatively small number of deals, with Bain Capital's overall success and failure rate being about even. One study of 68 deals that Bain Capital made up through the 1990s found that the firm lost money or broke even on 33 of them. Another study that looked at the eight-year period following 77 deals during the same time found that in 17 cases the company went bankrupt or out of business, and in 6 cases Bain Capital lost all its investment. But 10 deals were very successful and represented 70 percent of the total profits. Bain Capital has publicly asserted that 80% of their 350 companies and 100 start-up investments grew as a result of Bain investments.\n\nRomney took a leave of absence from Bain Capital from November 1993 to November 1994 in order to run for the U.S. Senate. During that time, Ampad workers went on strike, and asked Romney to intervene; Bain Capital lawyers asked him not to get involved, although he did meet with the workers to tell them he had no position of active authority in the matter.\n\nRomney returned to Bain Capital the day after the 1994 election, but the loss had a lasting effect; he told his brother, \"I never want to run for something again unless I can win.\" When his father died in 1995, Mitt donated his inheritance to BYU's George W. Romney Institute of Public Management. He also joined the board, as vice-chair, of the Points of Light Foundation, which had incorporated his father's National Volunteer Center.\n\nIn 1994, Bain invested in Steel Dynamics, based in Fort Wayne, Indiana, a prosperous steel company that has grown to the fifth largest in the U.S.A, employs about 6,100 people, and produces carbon steel products with 2010 revenues of $6.3 billion on steel shipments of 5.3 million tons. In 1993, Bain acquired the Armco Worldwide Grinding System steel plant in Kansas City, Missouri and merged it with its steel plant in Georgetown, South Carolina to form GST Steel. The Kansas City plant had a strike in 1997.\n\nBain's investment in Dade Behring represented a significant investment in the medical diagnostics industry. In 1994, Bain, together with Goldman Sachs Capital Partners completed a carveout acquisition of Dade International, the medical diagnostics division of Baxter International in a $440 million acquisition. Dade's private equity owners merged the company with DuPont's in vitro diagnostics business in May 1996 and subsequently with the Behring Diagnostics division of Hoechst AG in 1997. Aventis, the successor of Hoechst, acquired 52% of the combined company. In 1999, the company reported $1.3 billion of revenue and completed a $1.25 billion leveraged recapitalization that resulted in a payout to shareholders. The dividend, taken together with other previous shareholder dividends resulted in an eightfold return on investment to Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs.\n\nIn July 1996, when partner Bob Gray’s teenage daughter went missing in New York City, Romney shut down the Boston office and sent 56 employees to search for her, also setting up a toll-free tip line, and hiring private investigators. The search took Romney into contact with runaways on the seediest streets of New York, and a traced telephone call helped to locate the daughter, who had travelled to New Jersey for a concert without telling her parents.\n\nIn 1998, an affiliate of Bain Capital called Brookside Capital Partners Fund bought about 6 percent of Global Tech, a Chinese appliance-maker. Romney was the sole shareholder, sole director, president and chief executive officer of Brookside. The Obama campaign asserts that Romney profited from and indirectly supported \"sweatshop conditions\" at Global Tech, although independent fact-checkers say there is no evidence Romney actively sent any American jobs to China or approved the specific investment in Global Tech.\n\nBy the end of the decade, Bain Capital was on its way to being one of the top private equity firms in the nation, having increased its number of partners from 5 to 18, having 115 employees overall, and having $4 billion under its management. The firm's average annual return on investments was 113 percent. It had made between 100 and 150 deals where it acquired and then sold a company. Bain Capital's approach of applying consulting expertise to the companies it invested in became widely copied within the private equity industry.\n\nEconomist Steven Kaplan of the University of Chicago would later say, \"[Romney] came up with a model that was very successful and very innovative and that now everybody uses.\" Kaplan argues that, \"Bain Capital and Romney delivered spectacularly well for their customers, better than other [private equity] firms that on average outperformed the public markets. Today, those customers include the California State Teachers’ Retirement System and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas.\"\n\nIn contrast to economist Kaplan, the author and polemicist Matt Taibbi of \"Rolling Stone Magazine\" paints a less favorable portrait of Romney's business career (Taibbi also disparages Romney as “self-righteously anal, thin-lipped, [and] Whitest Kids U Know”). According to Taibbi, toward the middle of his career at Bain Capital, Romney moved away from helping startups, and moved toward leveraged buyouts which involved borrowing money to take over established companies in order to extract as much value as possible from those targeted companies. Taibbi calls this “financial piracy”, while acknowledging that Romney’s leveraged buyouts were not hostile takeovers, and also conceding that some of Bain’s work was not \"evil\" (such as Bain's successful turnaround of Experian). Taibbi blames the U.S. tax code for making leveraged buyouts possible by allowing companies like Bain to deduct interest on debt they use to acquire targets, and also by allowing individuals like Romney to pay much less than the ordinary tax rate on income. However, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reports that Romney likely did not participate in the latter tax rate reductions.\n\nRomney primarily made his fortune at Bain Capital from 1984 to 1999, a fortune estimated to be worth between $190 million to $250 million.\n\nAs the decade neared a close, the goal of simply making more money was losing its appeal for Romney. He took a paid leave of absence from Bain Capital in February 1999 when he became the head of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics. The decision caused turmoil at Bain Capital, with a power struggle ensuing. Some partners left and founded the Audax Group and Golden Gate Capital. Other partners threatened to leave, and there was a prospect of eight-figure lawsuits being filed. Romney was worried that the firm might be destroyed, but the crisis ebbed.\n\nBilled in some public statements as keeping a part-time role, Romney remained the firm's sole shareholder, managing director, CEO and president, signing corporate and legal documents, attending to his interests within the firm, and conducting prolonged negotiations for the terms of his departure.\n\nRomney was not involved in day-to-day operations of the firm after starting the Olympics position. Those were handled by a management committee, consisting of five of the fourteen remaining active partners with the firm. However, according to some interviews and press releases during 1999, Romney said he was keeping a part-time function at Bain.\n\nDuring his leave of absence, Romney continued to be listed in filings to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as \"sole shareholder, sole director, Chief Executive Officer and President\". The SEC filings reflected the legal reality and the ownership interest in the Bain Capital management company. In practice, former Bain partners have stated that Romney's attention was mostly occupied by his Olympics position. He did stay in regular contact with his partners, and traveled to meet with them several times, signing corporate and legal documents and paying attention to his own interests within the firm and to his departure negotiations. Bain Capital Fund VI in 1998 was the last one Romney was involved in; investors were worried that with Romney gone, the firm would have trouble raising money for Bain Capital Fund VII in 2000, but in practice the $2.5 billion was raised without much trouble. His former partners have said that Romney had no role in assessing other new investments after February 1999, nor was he involved in directing the company’s investment funds. Discussions over the final terms of Romney's departure dragged on during this time, with Romney negotiating for the best deal he could get and his continuing position as CEO and sole shareholder giving him the leverage to do so.\n\nAlthough he had left open the possibility of returning to Bain after the Olympics, Romney made his crossover to politics permanent with an announcement in August 2001. His separation from the firm was finalized in early 2002. Romney negotiated a ten-year retirement agreement with Bain Capital that allowed him to receive a passive profit share and interest as a retired partner in some Bain Capital entities, including buyout and Bain Capital investment funds, in exchange for his ownership in the management company. Because the private equity business continued to thrive, this deal would bring him millions of dollars in annual income. Romney was the first and last CEO of Bain Capital; since his departure became final, it has continued to be run by management committee.\n\nRomney's business career has drawn both praise and criticism from his political opponents. Summarizing his business career and the creative destruction of the private equity industry, he has said: \"Sometimes the medicine is a little bitter but it is necessary to save the life of the patient. My job was to try to make the enterprise successful, and in my view the best security a family can have is that the business they work for is strong.\" Romney's web site defends his business career.\n\nAs a result of his career in business, Romney and his wife amassed a net worth in the hundreds of millions of dollars; their wealth remained in the range of a fifth to a quarter billion dollars as of 2011. Most of it has been held in blind trusts since 2003. An additional blind trust, valued at $100 million in 2012, exists in the name of the Romneys' children. The trust, created in 1995, allows the Romneys to transfer money to heirs outside their estate, taking advantage of sophisticated tax planning techniques used by high-net-worth families in an effort to defer or reduce their tax burden. Romney has an SEP-IRA worth between $21 million and $102 million. A portion of Romney's financial assets are held in offshore accounts and investments.\n\nIn 2010, Romney and his wife received $21.7 million in income, almost all of it from investments such as dividends, capital gains, and carried interest. For 2010, the Romneys paid about $3 million in federal income taxes, for an effective tax rate of 13.9 percent. For the years 1990–2009, his effective rates were at least 13.7 percent with an average effective rate of 20.2 percent.\n\nRomney has regularly tithed to the LDS Church, including stock from Bain Capital holdings. In 2010, he and his wife gave $3 million to charity, including $1.5 million to the church. The Romney family's Tyler Charitable Foundation gave out about $650,000 in that year, some of which went to organizations that fight diseases such as cystic fibrosis and multiple sclerosis. In addition, the Romneys have often donated to LDS Church-owned BYU. For the years 1990–2009, the Romneys' total charitable donations as portions of their income averaged 13.5 percent.\n"}
{"id": "55862694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55862694", "title": "Carmen Lind Pettersen", "text": "Carmen Lind Pettersen\n\nCarmen Lind Pettersen (6 March 1900–1991) was a Guatemalan painter. Known for watercolors of the landscape and traditional costumes of Guatemala and her book, which is the most complete reference work on the textiles of the Guatemalan high plateau. Her works were often listed in Guidebooks for the country and in 1976, she was awarded the Order of the Quetzal for her artistic merit and has paintings in the permanent collection of the Ixchel Museum of Indigenous Textiles and Clothing.\n\nCarmen Dorotea Gehrke de María y Campos was born and baptized 6 March 1900, in Sagrario Parish, of Guatemala City, Guatemala to María Magdalena Soledad Isabel de María y Campos Hoffmann and Arthur Henry Theodore Gehrke (aka Arturo Enrique Teodoro Gehrke). Her father was a British agent for the import-export company Rosing Brothers and Company, while her mother was from Veracruz, Mexico. When the couple immigrated to Guatemala, they settled with two children, Enelda Francisca and Arthur Richard in the Jocotenango neighborhood of Guatemala City. While in Guatemala, the family grew, adding Carmen and another son, Conrad in 1903. In 1904, Arthur was transferred with Rosing Brothers to London.\n\nIn 1909, Gehrke entered the Tunbridge Wells Girls' Grammar School, a boarding school, in Royal Tunbridge Wells, where she began studying painting and developed an interest in nature, spending hours in Kew Gardens. In 1917, she began studying at the Royal Polytechnic Institution on Regent Street in London. Near the end of the war, she met Leif Lind Pettersen, who was visiting from Guatemala with his uncle Walter Lind. Walter Lind (born Lind Pettersen) was an Englishman, born to Norwegian parents, who also worked in Guatemala for Rosing Brothers and owned a coffee plantation. Earthquakes in Guatemala between 1917 and 1918 had devastated the country and in 1923, Arthur was asked to return to the country. He traveled with María and his two daughters, and the family took up residence on one of Walter Lind's farms, known as Helvetia, as Guatemala City was uninhabitable. Gehrke and Leif Lind Pettersen renewed their friendship, which quickly turned into a romance and the couple were married in 1925 in Retalhuleu. At the time of their marriage, Leif was suffering from malaria and immediately after the ceremony, Carmen took him to Guatemala City to recover.\n\nAfter Leif’s recovery, the couple bought a coffee farm known as \"La Colonia\" near El Tumbador. They managed it for several years, until 1929 when the plummet in coffee prices due to the Great Depression forced them to sell and buy a \"cinchona\" farm known as El Zapote, in the Escuintla Department on the slopes of the Volcán de Fuego. This turned out to be a precipitous purchase, as during World War II, the Japanese captured Indonesia, cutting off the supply to the seeds of the \"cinchona\", which were needed to make quinine. The demand and Leif's agreement with the United States government and Merck and Company, soon made their farm one of the largest in the area producing chinchona.\n\nIn the 1930s, Lind Pettersen began gardening on the farm and painting the landscapes she saw, focusing on the diversity of the trees and flora of the Guatemalan coastal piedmont, which few had painted or studied. Her works documented the era of transformation of jungles to rural coffee plantations, showing agricultural migration as well as environmental change. Studying design at Kew Gardens, in 1958 with the help of Venancio Tubac Salazar, she created a botanical garden which became the largest in the region. It featured three lagoons, which became a haven for migrating coastal herons, as well as large trees which were filled with parrots and other tropical birds. As an observer of her world, she began to study the costumes of the farm workers and domestics that helped on the farm. Noticing that over time the dress styles were changing, Pettersen began to draw and catalogue them. A friend sent her a collection of Mayan costumes, which Pettersen duplicated in watercolor, having her employees and friends pose as models. The work took six years to complete, and she is now known mostly for these watercolors of the traditional costumes of Guatemala. In 1976, Lind Pettersen published \"Maya of Guatemala: Vida y Traje/Life and Dress\", a bilingual book, which is the most complete reference work on the textiles of the Guatemalan high plateau. That same year, she received the Order of the Quetzal for her artistic merit of preserving the cultural heritage.\n\nIn 1984, Pettersen began losing her sight and rather than give up art, began teaching. She held an exhibit of her works in 1986 at the National School of Visual Arts and was listed in guidebooks for Guatemala as a reference for the study of textiles and for her watercolors with works on display in the 1990s at the Ixchel Museum and the Museo Nacional de Arte Moderno \"Carlos Mérida\".\n\nLind Pettersen died in 1991. She has over sixty paintings in the permanent collections of the Ixchel Museum of Indigenous Textiles and Clothing in Guatemala City. After her death, the garden she developed on their farm became a nature reserve and is opened once a month to the public. In 2017, the Ixchel Museum hosted an exhibit of around thirty of her works throughout the month of February.\n\n"}
{"id": "13951001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13951001", "title": "Carol Ohmart", "text": "Carol Ohmart\n\nArmelia Carol Ohmart (July 3, 1927 – January 1, 2002), known professionally as Carol Ohmart, was an American actress and former model who appeared in numerous films and television series from the early 1950s until the 1970s. Over the duration of her career, she would appear in several notable horror and film noirs, including lead roles in \"The Wild Party\" (1956) and William Castle's \"House on Haunted Hill\" (1959).\n\nBorn to a Mormon family in Salt Lake City, Ohmart spent the majority of her early life in Seattle and Spokane, Washington. After graduating high school, she returned to Utah where she won the title of Miss Utah, and subsequently placed fourth in the Miss America pageant. Her appearance in pageants led to modeling work, which included posing for artist Milton Caniff. \n\nOhmart made her feature film debut in Michael Curtiz's \"The Scarlet Hour\" in 1956, followed by various television appearances, as well as roles in several horror films, such as \"House on Haunted Hill\" (1959) and \"Spider Baby\" (1968). Her final film appearance was in \"The Spectre of Edgar Allan Poe\" (1974), after which she formally retired from acting, dedicating her time to studying New Age philosophy and spiritualism. Ohmart spent the majority of her later life in Seattle, before dying of natural causes in Fort Collins, Colorado in 2002, aged 74.\n\nOhmart was born Armelia Carol Ohmart on July 3, 1927 in Salt Lake City, Utah, into a Mormon family. Her parents were C. Thomas Ohmart, a dentist who was first a professional actor, and his wife, Armelia Ohmart. Her family relocated to Seattle, Washington shortly after Ohmart's birth. At age twelve, Ohmart sang on KFRC in San Francisco, California. She also sang on KSL, KUTA and KDYL in her hometown of Salt Lake City. Additionally, she sang with dance bands, including that of Jan Garber, as a teenager.\nShe was raised primarily in Washington state, though she briefly attended East High School in Salt Lake City, later graduating from Lewis and Clark High School in Spokane, Washington. After graduating high school, Ohmart returned to Utah with her mother, and in 1946, won the Miss Utah pageant. She then placed fourth in the Miss America pageant. \n\nOhmart's work in pageants led to several modeling jobs in 1947, during which time Ohmart became a model for the character \"Copper Calhoun\" in Milton Caniff's \"Steve Canyon\" comic strip. Ohmart would serve as a model for numerous illustrations for Caniff, and was featured in a 1947 profile in \"Popular Photography\".\n\nOhmart was seen on early television doing commercials, appearing on NBC's \"Bonny Maid Versatile Varieties\" (1949–51), which aired Friday nights at 9 p.m. Ohmart was seen pitching floor wax along with Anne Francis and Eva Marie Saint, the other two hosts of the show. She also worked on \"The 20th Century Fox Hour\".\n\nOhmart moved to New York in 1955 where she worked as an understudy on Broadway. She had steady work in television until the early 1970s, with guest roles in \"Bat Masterson\", \"Ripcord\", \"The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp\", \"Get Smart\", \"Perry Mason\" Tombstone Territory and \"Barnaby Jones\".\n\nDubbed a \"female Brando\" by the press, Paramount Pictures signed her in 1955 and promoted her as the next Marilyn Monroe. Ohmart had top billing in \"The Scarlet Hour\", a Paramount film made by the distinguished director Michael Curtiz about a married woman who persuades her lover to commit a jewelry robbery. Ohmart recalled of the film: \"It was the wrong vehicle to launch me as a star. Frank Tashlin, one of the film's three screenwriters, told me that it had been earlier turned down by Barbara Stanwyck. Foolishly, Paramount let its new leading lady portray a lush, an adulteress wife and a suicide by the film's end.\" After nearly $2 million spent promoting her, Ohmart was released from her contract. She co-starred with Anthony Quinn in a 1956 crime drama, \"The Wild Party\".\n\nAfter marrying Wayde Preston, she briefly retired from acting, only to return a year later, in films and television. Producer Jack Warner offered her a supporting role in \"Born Reckless\" (1958). Although she did not like the script, she took the role. One of her most noted roles was in William Castle's \"House on Haunted Hill\" (1959), playing a murderous wife. In 1962, she returned to New York City to appear in an off-Broadway production titled \"Banderol\". This was followed by a supporting part in the Denis Sanders-directed \"One Man's Way\" (1964).\n\nOhmart took a hiatus from appearing in films for several years, selling real estate and becoming involved in studying spiritualism, and ended up in debt. In 1967, she appeared in the exploitation film \"Caxambu!\", followed by a lead role in the cult horror film \"Spider Baby\"; according to director Jack Hill, Ohmart was enthusiastic about the project, asking, \"Do you think we can win an Academy Award for this?\" Her last film role was in 1974's \"The Spectre of Edgar Allan Poe\".\n\nOhmart married three times, most notably to actor Wade Preston. They wed in 1956 and were divorced in 1958. Her first marriage, in 1949, was to actor Ken Grayson; it was annulled in 1951. In 1978, she married William Traberth in Wyoming, a veteran and former firefighter, and retired in Sequim, Washington, a suburb of Seattle. She changed her name to Kariomar S. Traberth, taking her husband's surname, and was guarded about her private life. \n\nThroughout the late 1960s and 1970s, Ohmart dedicated much of her time studying spiritualism and New Age philosophy, which served as a basis for various poems and short stories she wrote. Around 1973, while filming an episode of \"Barnaby Jones\" in Los Angeles, Ohmart was attacked and beaten by three men on a street in Hollywood. After being discharged from the hospital over her injuries, Ohmart was prescribed pain killers, which marked the beginnings of a years-long addiction to prescription medication.\n\nIn 1989, Ohmart agreed to be the subject of an extensive profile in the \"Los Angeles Times\". In the profile, Ohmart revealed that she had an estranged relationship with her mother, who did not know of her daughter's whereabouts for the last ten years of her life, up until her death in 1987. Ohmart recalled: \n\nOhmart died in Fort Collins, Colorado on January 1, 2002, aged 74, of natural causes. She was cremated, and her ashes scattered over Carter Lake in Loveland, Colorado.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43510415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43510415", "title": "Charles W. Crawford", "text": "Charles W. Crawford\n\nCaptain Charles Wispington Glover Crawford, CBE (1873 – 16 October 1934) was a British Royal Navy officer who commanded the Devonport flotilla of motor torpedo boats. In his spare time he was a noted philatelist. He signed the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1934.\n\nCrawford was educated for a naval career and joined the at Dartmouth in 1886. He became a midshipman on in 1888 and later that same year joined at Bermuda. In 1893 he became lieutenant, and in the middle of 1902 he was posted as first lieutenant and torpedo officer to the protected cruiser HMS \"Highflyer\", flag ship of the East Indies Station. He subsequently attained the rank of commander and in 1905 was given the command of a Royal Navy motor torpedo boat HMTB \"107\" launched in 1901. Crawford was also given command of the Devonport flotilla of the 160 footer torpedo boats.\n\nHe travelled widely and was in charge of wireless telegraphy in Somaliland in actions against Mohammed Abdullah Hassan, known as the \"Mad Mullah\" by the British. He retired in 1910 but was recalled to active service on the outbreak of the First World War. He was involved with the landing of the naval division at Dunkirk and the evacuation of Ostend for which he was mentioned in dispatches. In 1919 he was awarded the honour of being made a commander of the order of the British Empire in recognition of his work during the war.\n\nCrawford first became interested in stamps as a boy and formed a collection with his step-father. During his naval career he often sent stamps home from the various ports that he visited. His philatelic interests were broad but he was a particular expert on the stamps of the Australian States and New Zealand. He was elected to the Royal Philatelic Society London in June 1918 and was a member of their Expert Committee. He was convenor of the Queensland Reference List Committee who were charged with reporting on the papers, perforations and plates of that territory.\n\nCrawford died at his home in Seaford on 16 October 1934 after having suffered two heart attacks in August of that year. He was buried at Morden Cemetery on 19 October and was survived by his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "2544149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544149", "title": "Cilydd", "text": "Cilydd\n\nCilydd is the father of Culhwch, hero of the Middle Welsh prose tale \"Culhwch and Olwen\", the earliest of the collection usually referred to as the \"Mabinogion\". He is the son of Prince Celyddon, husband to Goleuddydd, who bore him his son. When Goleuddydd dies after giving birth to Culhwch, Cilydd hears about another woman, the wife of King Doged. Cilydd slays Doged and procures his lands and family, marrying the widow, who becomes Culhwch's hated stepmother.\n\n"}
{"id": "2421906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421906", "title": "Devon Harris", "text": "Devon Harris\n\nDevon Harris (born 1964) is a Jamaican retired bobsledder and military officer. He was one of the founding members of the Jamaica national bobsled team, which first competed in the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta. Nicknamed \"Pele\" after the famous football star, Harris went on to compete in the 1992 Winter Olympics and the 1998 Winter Olympics.\n\nHarris grew up in the Kingston ghetto of Sunrise Drive in Olympic Gardens (known as \"Waterhouse,\" or \"Firehouse,\" because it was a volatile area). A graduate of Drews Ave Primary School, Ardenne High School, and Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, Harris had been an avid football player and track and field participant, with his dream being to represent Jamaica in the 1984 Summer Olympics in the 800m and 1500m events. Since the idea for a Jamaican Bobsled Team was pitched to the Jamaica Defence Force, Harris, as a lieutenant in the Second Battalion, first came across the proposal in a weekly army publication called \"Force Orders\" in September 1987. The text had called for those who wished to \"undergo rigorous and dangerous training\" to represent Jamaica in the Winter Olympics. Harris initially thought the idea was ridiculous, but was eventually convinced to participate by his colonel, Lt. Col Alan Douglas. At the team selections, Harris ended up with the fastest push time.\n\nHarris returned to the military after Calgary and later became a civilian in 1992 after his second Olympics in Albertville, France. He also competed in the 1998 Olympics in Nagano, Japan. He now works as a motivational public speaker and writer.\n\nHarris wrote the 2008 children's book, \"Yes, I can! : the story of the Jamaican bobsled team\", illustrated by Ricardo Cortes and in 2010 published his semi-autobiographical motivational book; Keep On Pushing: Hot Lessons From Cool Runnings\n\nIn 2006, Harris founded the Keep On Pushing Foundation which supports the education of kids in disadvantaged communities\n\n"}
{"id": "1856460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856460", "title": "Diane Rehm", "text": "Diane Rehm\n\nDiane Rehm (; born Diane Aed; September 21, 1936) is a retired American public radio talk show host. Her program, \"The Diane Rehm Show\", was distributed nationally and internationally by National Public Radio. The show was produced at WAMU, which is licensed to American University in Washington, D.C.\n\nRehm had announced her plans to retire from hosting the show after the 2016 elections. The final program was recorded and distributed on December 23, 2016. Rehm announced she was going to host a weekly podcast, which she began doing in January 2017. A new program produced by WAMU, titled \"1A\", will play in the vacated timeslot.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" describes Rehm as a leading voice in the right to die debate.\n\nRehm was born in Washington, D.C. According to Rehm's autobiography, \"Finding My Voice\", her father's family were Eastern Orthodox Christians from Ottoman Mersin, a city on the southern coast of Anatolia. According to Rehm, the family were Arabs, and her mother was an educated woman who was fluent in both French and Arabic. Rehm's father immigrated to America in 1911, following his older brothers. He returned to Mersin to marry her mother, but found that she and her family were living in Alexandria, Egypt. He brought her to America in 1929; family memories of how the two met vary. In a 2012 interview in \"The Washingtonian\", she describes her father as coming from Beirut, Lebanon.\n\nRehm attended William B. Powell Elementary and Roosevelt High School in Washington, D.C. Upon graduation, she was employed by the city's highways department, where she became a radio dispatcher.\n\nRehm married John Rehm, her second husband, in 1959; he was working at the State Department, she was working as a secretary. John Rehm died June 23, 2014 after he stopped eating and drinking to end his suffering from Parkinson's disease. After his death, Rehm became a staunch advocate for medical aid in dying, arguing that no one should suffer needlessly in the way that her husband did.\nShe has two adult children, David and Jennifer.On October 14, 2017 Diane Rehm and John Hagedorn were married at the Washington National Cathedral. \n\nRehm has spasmodic dysphonia, a neurological condition that affects the quality of her voice.\n\nRehm began her radio career in 1973 as a volunteer for WAMU's \"The Home Show.\" In 1979, she took over as the host of WAMU's morning talk show, \"Kaleidoscope\", which was renamed \"The Diane Rehm Show\" in 1984.\n\nRehm has interviewed many political and cultural figures, including John McCain, Barack Obama, Madeleine Albright. She has said that her most touching interview was with Fred Rogers of the PBS program \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\", conducted just before his death. Rehm has described her interviews with Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton to have been \"amazing experiences.\"\n\nShe has written three autobiographical books. The first, \"Finding My Voice\", dealt with her traditional upbringing in a Christian Arab household, her brief first marriage and divorce, her 50-year marriage to John Rehm, raising her children, the first 20 years of her radio career, and her battles with depression, osteoporosis, and spasmodic dysphonia. Together with John Rehm she co-wrote \"Toward Commitment: A Dialogue about Marriage\", which was published in 2002.\n\nHer memoir, \"On My Own\", was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 2016.\n\nThe final broadcast of \"The Diane Rehm Show\" was aired on December 23, 2016.\n\nIn 2005, a private study funded by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting reported that Rehm booked 22 liberal guests for every 5 conservative guests. The study was criticized as a politicized attempt to, in Rehm's word, \"scare\" journalists with the accusation of liberal bias. One criticism of the study concerned its criteria of what constituted \"liberal\" – a category which included seemingly moderate Republicans such as Senator Chuck Hagel and former Representative Bob Barr. The study was commissioned by Kenneth Tomlinson, whose appointment to the chairmanship of the CPB by George W. Bush had been criticized by liberals as politically motivated. Tomlinson hired Indiana consultant Frederick W. Mann, a conservative thinker previously associated with the Young America's Foundation, which has described itself as \"the principal outreach organization of the Conservative Movement\".\n\nA report on the study by the CPB's Inspector General, Kenneth Konz, criticized Tomlinson's methods; the report led to Tomlinson's immediate resignation in November 2005. According to the \"Washington Post\", Rehm personally \"called Mann's findings 'unprofessional and simplistic.' [and] added 'I've been booking shows for 25 years. I don't think they have any idea what it takes to achieve the professionalism and expertise and the right people to express a variety of points of view. . . . What [Kenneth Tomlinson]'s doing, I think, is trying to scare public broadcasters.' \"\n\nRehm has been featured in three political movie documentaries: \"Jimmy Carter: Man from Plains\", \"I.O.U.S.A.\", and Dinesh D'Souza's \"\" which used her quote, \"And then you've got the cover of \"Forbes\" magazine, a cover story by Dinesh D'Souza. I think nothing has turned my stomach so much in recent years as reading that piece.\"\n\nOn June 10, 2015, Rehm interviewed 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, and stated that Sanders had dual citizenship with Israel; this was not true. Sanders denied that he holds dual citizenship, but Rehm repeated her assertion of the senator's dual citizenship as a fact. Rehm's statements were criticized by David Harsanyi in \"The Federalist\" for being an anti-Semitic smear. Sophia Tesfaye of \"Salon\" pointed out that Rehm apparently fell for an antisemitic canard and did not successfully fact-check her information before she conducted her interview with Sanders. In \"The Times of Israel\", Gedalyah Reback stated that the interview was controversial because Rehm seemed to have accused a Jewish U.S. presidential candidate of maintaining secret Israeli citizenship.\n\nRehm apologized for her exchange with Sanders in a statement released later that day. \"On today's show I made a mistake. Rather than asking if Senator and presidential candidate Bernie Sanders whether he had dual U.S./Israeli citizenship, as I had read in a comment on Facebook, I stated it as fact. I want to apologize as well to all our listeners for having made an erroneous statement. I am sorry for the mistake. However, I am glad to play a role in putting this rumor to rest.\" Journalist Josh Marshall called her apology \"a total crock.\" Law professor David Bernstein found it strange that both Rehm and her producer fell for what he felt was an obvious anti-Semitic hoax. He speculated that frequently-heard strange accusations about Jewish supporters of Israel may have played a role. Elizabeth Jepsen, NPR's ombudsman, took issue with both Rehm's interview and apology: \"Far from putting anything to rest, Rehm has now taken a falsehood from the fringes of the Internet and moved it into the mainstream conversation.\"\n\nFollowing the 2014 death of her husband—who was unable to get physician assisted suicide drugs due to their illegality in Maryland—Rehm became an advocate for right to die. NPR's ombudsman deemed that her related fundraising for Compassion & Choices violated the NPR ethical standards, and she agreed to stop attending fundraising dinners.\n\nA partial list of Rehm's honors and awards:\n\n"}
{"id": "16937393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16937393", "title": "Dieter Gruen", "text": "Dieter Gruen\n\nDieter Martin Gruen (born November 21, 1922) is a German-born American scientist, who was a senior member of the Materials Science Division at Argonne National Laboratory. He received B.S. (1944, cum laude) and M.S. (1947) degrees in chemistry from Northwestern University and the Ph.D. (1951) in chemical physics from the University of Chicago.\n\nGruen made contributions in a broad range of topics in the chemistry of materials: the definitive establishment of the 5f character of the actinides by the measurement and ligand field interpretation of magnetic moments at low temperatures; the creation of a solution chemistry in fused salts using spectroscopy to determine oxidation states, complex ions, and coordination equilibria of transition metal ions; the elucidation of the interactions of reactive molecular and atomic species with noble gas matrixes; the rational design of metal alloy hydrides for energy storage and heat pump applications; the determination of the energetics and depth of origin of sputtered species; ultrasensitive detection of atoms and molecules using laser Fluorescence and resonance ionization mass spectrometry; the discovery and development of a new chemical vapor deposition process for the synthesis of phase-pure nanocrystalline diamond films.\n\nShortly after receiving the baccalaureate degree, Gruen joined the team engaged in the large-scale electromagnetic separation of uranium-235, which was a part of the Manhattan Project during the second World War.\n\nThe safe management of fission energy depends in large part on a knowledge of the chemical properties of the actinide elements, many of which are man-made. Gruen contributed seminal studies that led to a detailed elucidation of the 5f electronic structure of several of these elements, using low-temperature magnetic susceptibility and fluorescence spectroscopic techniques. In order to investigate the range and stability of the oxidation states of actinide and other transition elements in fused salt solutions, he pioneered the field of absorption spectroscopy in high-temperature liquids. A novel solution chemistry was discovered that led, for example, to an understanding, on the basis of ligand field theory, of complex ions and coordination complexes in these highly ionic liquids. The approach introduced by Gruen was fruitful not only in helping to provide a fundamental understanding of fused salt chemistry, but also in its implications for the eventual development of a homogeneous thermal breeder reactor based on fused salt solutions containing the relatively plentiful element thorium. Such a development would constitute an energy supply for the indefinite future.\n\nGruen went on to explore many high-temperature gaseous species by using a variety of techniques, including matrix isolation spectroscopy methods. Closed-cycle refrigerators were first introduced by him for these investigations, which gave detailed insight into guest molecule and guest atom-noble gas matrix interactions.\n\nIn order to convert solar energy efficiently, a variety of approaches are being developed. The one chosen by Gruen was a heat pump driven by solar energy inputs. A novel concept was elaborated, which utilized a pair of metal alloy hydrides whose hydrogen dissociation temperatures could be adjusted by varying the alloy composition. This, as all of Gruen's work, was motivated by a desire to achieve fundamental understanding, in this case of the science underlying the heats of formation of alloy hydrides. The specific problem to which the basic knowledge was applied, namely the actual operation of a hydride heat pump demonstrated that solar inputs at modest temperature can be used for space heating and air conditioning. The synthesis of the metal alloy hydrides provided an early example of a field that has come to be known as \"materials by design.\"\n\nGruen became interested in the challenging materials problems associated with attempts to harness here on earth the fusion reactions that power the sun. Among these problems is the introduction of metal impurities into the thermonuclear plasma by sputtering processes of the metal walls surrounding the plasma. He conceived the idea of using laser fluorescence spectroscopy to determine the kind and quantity of sputtered metal atoms and to gain fundamental insights into the energetics and depth of origin of the sputtered species. The basic findings emanating from these experiments made possible the use of laser fluorescence as a powerful plasma diagnostic technique. These early laser fluorescence methods evolved under his leadership into a highly sensitive new surface science technique called SARISA: Surface Analysis by Resonance Ionization of Sputtered Atoms. Recent measurements using an advanced form of this apparatus have been made by his colleague Michael J. Pellin (B.S., Northwestern University; Ph.D., University of Illinois). These have yielded isotope ratios of heavy elements in presolar SiC grains found in meteorites, data that are important for an understanding of the origin of the presolar nebula from which the sun condensed five billion years ago.\n\nGruen conceived, starting in 1991, a radically new method for making diamond films by a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process that does not require the use of atomic hydrogen in contradistinction to traditional CVD methods that do. By fragmenting fullerene molecules (C) in noble-gas microwave discharges, he was able to produce the carbon dimer, C2, a new nucleation and growth species, which condenses to form nanocrystalline diamond films. This unique material has been shown by Gruen and his colleagues to be extraordinarily useful in a number of tribological, microelectronic, and telecommunication applications, many of which will lead to substantial energy savings.\n\nCertain classes of meteorites (carbonaceous chondrites) also contain substantial amounts of presolar nanocrystalline diamond grains. It is possible that the carbon dimmer nucleation and growth mechanism experimentally and theoretically established by Gruen and his colleagues was also operative in the presolar nebula and thus was involved in the formation of the diamond grains found in meteorites. Indeed, the cosmic synthesis of nanocrystalline diamond may be occurring today in so-called protoplanetary nebulae, a relatively brief stage in the evolution of red-giant stars, which our own sun will enter in the far distant future.\n\nGruen was a visiting scientist at the invitation of Nobel laureate Glenn T. Seaborg at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, a delegate to the United Nations Conference on Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, and a visiting professor at both the Norwegian Technical University and the Hebrew University. He was on the board of the Seaborg Institute for Transactinium Science and on visiting committees for the Lawrence Livermore Laboratory. He has been on the editorial boards of the Annual Review of Materials Science, the Journal of Applied Physics, and Applied Physics Letters. Gruen is a frequently invited lecturer at national and international conferences and has been the organizer of numerous conferences and symposia. Gruen is the author or co- author of more than 350 publications and editor of several books and monographs. He holds approximately 30 U.S. patents. Among those that have been licensed are some in the nanocrystalline diamond film area and one concerning the use of intense ultraviolet laser radiation for the ablation of biological tissue. The process is used worldwide for the treatment of certain cardiovascular diseases.\n\nGruen's wife Dolores, a psychologist who received her Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, died on March 19, 2015, at the age of 90. The Gruens had been married for 66 years at the time of her death. Dr. Gruen has two daughters, Erica and Karen, and a son, Jeffery. Dr. Gruen also has nine grandchildren (Daniel, Miriam, Anna, Lev, Zohara, Micah, Aleya, Benjamin, and Moshe Aaron) and one great-grandchild, Julia Devorah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5209112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5209112", "title": "Dino Saluzzi", "text": "Dino Saluzzi\n\nTimoteo \"Dino\" Saluzzi (born May 20, 1935 Campo Santo, Salta Province, Argentina) is an Argentinian bandoneon player. He is the son of Cayetano Saluzzi and the father of guitarist José Maria Saluzzi.\n\nDino played the bandoneón since his childhood. Other than his father, he was influenced by Salta musicians such as Cuchi Leguizamón, and by the lyrical strain of the tango of Francisco de Caro and Agustin Bardi. Dino described the vividness of his musical sketches as \"an imaginary return\" to the little towns and villages of his childhood.\n\nFor much of his youth, Saluzzi lived in Buenos Aires, playing with the Radio El Mundo orchestra. He would play in orchestras for a living, while touring with smaller, sometimes jazz-oriented ensembles, developing a personal style that made him a leading bandoneonist in Argentine folklore and avant-garde music (especially since Ástor Piazzolla did not participate in projects other than his own). His record career doesn't start until the 70s, along with Gato Barbieri, when he signed a couple of crazy lyricism albums under the name of Gaucho. Over this decade, he worked on many tours in South America and specially in Japan, but always associated to other names, as Mariano Mores or Enrique Mario Franchini.\n\nThrough word-of mouth publicity (mostly from expatriate musicians) he was invited to several European music festivals, and landed a contract with the ECM label. Several records have resulted, including \"Kultrum\", 1982. From the beginning of the 1980s onwards, there were collaborations with European and American jazz musicians including Charlie Haden, Tomasz Stanko, Charlie Mariano, Palle Danielsson, and Al Di Meola.\n\nECM brought Saluzzi together with Charlie Haden, Palle Mikkelborg and Pierre Favre for \"Once Upon A Time ... Far Away In The South\", and subsequently with Enrico Rava for \"Volver\". Rava had worked extensively in Argentina, and Haden's sympathy for Latin American music was well-known; furthermore Palle Mikkelborg and Dino Saluzzi had worked together productively in George Gruntz's band: there was a common ground on which an artistic exchange of ideas could take place. Saluzzi later played with 'Haden's Liberation Music Orchestra', and the 'Rava Saluzzi Quintet' also toured.\n\nIn 1991, Saluzzi recorded an album with his brothers Felix and Celso and his son José María on guitar, kicking off his \"family project\", which has since toured many countries. \"Mojotoro\" drew upon the full range of South American musics: tango, folk, candina music, candombe, the milonga music of the la Pampa province...\n\nAnja Lechner and Dino have toured widely as a duo, too and US jazz magazine \"Down Beat\" declares the album that recorded together, \"Ojos Negros\" album of the year (best of 2007 list).\n\nDino Saluzzi symphonic works were presented with Anja Lechner and Metropole Orkest at Muziekgebouw, Amsterdam in February, 2009. Soloist: Dino Saluzzi - bandoneon; Guest: Anja Lechner - cello; Conductor: Jules Buckley.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856146", "title": "Dositheos (Samaritan)", "text": "Dositheos (Samaritan)\n\nDositheos (occasionally also known as Nathanael, both meaning \"gift of God\") was a Samaritan religious leader, founder of a Samaritan sect, often assumed to be a gnostic. He is reputed to have known John the Baptist, and been the teacher of Simon Magus.\n\nHe lived probably in the first century of the common era. According to Pseudo-Tertullian, he was the first to deny the Prophets, a heresy that gave rise to the party of the Sadducees. Jerome gives the same account. Hippolytus I begins his enumeration of the 32 heresies by mentioning Dositheos; hence the sect is made to appear older than the Sadducees, and on the heresy is based the system of Philaster.\n\nHe was not mentioned by the two early patristic authors Justin Martyr or Irenaeus.\n\nThe Samaritan chronicler Abu al-Fatḥ of the fourteenth century, who used reliable native sources, places the origin of the Dosithean sect in the time before Alexander the Great. The rabbinical sources also contain obscure references to Dositheos and Sabbæus as the two founders respectively of the Samaritan sects of the Dositheans and Sabuæans. These have been identified with the Samaritans Sabbæeus and Theodosius, of whom Josephus relates that they defended before the Egyptian king Ptolemæus Philometor, against Andronicus, the advocate of the Jews, the sanctity of Mt. Gerizim.\n\nThe Samaritan chronicles (the \"Book of Joshua\" and Abu al-Fath's \"Annales\") recount a similar discussion between Zerubbabel and Sanballat. As Josephus says that the Samaritans had two advocates, he doubtless meant the two apostles Dositheus and Sabbæus, whose doctrine, including the sanctity of Mt. Gerizim, rejection of the prophetical books of the Old Testament and denial of the resurrection, was on the whole identical with that of the Samaritans.\n\nAccording to Hegesippus, Dositheus lived later than Simon Magus, the first heresiarch of the Church; other authors speak of him as the teacher of Simon, at the same time confounding him with Simon Magus, connecting his name with Helena, and stating that he was the \"being\". Origen says that Dositheus pretended to be the Christ (Messiah), applying to himself, and he compares him with Theudas and Judas the Galilean. Origen also says that Dositheus' disciples pretended to possess books by him, and related concerning him that he never suffered death, but was still alive. To this must be compared the story of Epiphanius regarding his death by starvation in a cave. Epiphanius adds that while some of the Dositheans lead loose lives, others preserve a rigid morality, refrain from the use of meat, observe the rite of circumcision, and are very strict in keeping the Sabbath and in observing the laws of Levitical purity. These statements may, however, refer to another Dositheus, who belonged to the Encratites.\n\nOrigen says that the Dositheans were never in a flourishing state and that in his time, they had almost entirely disappeared, scarcely thirty of them being left. The Midrash, however, speaks of Dositheans, with whom Rabbi Meïr had dealings, and two names, \"Dosion and Dosthion,\" are also mentioned, which either refer to two Dosithean sectarians or form a double designation for the heretic Dositheus. Yet the fact that the patriarch Eulogius of Alexandria (who probably lived 582-603) disputed successfully against the Samaritan followers of Dostan (Δοσϑήν) or Dositheus, and wrote a work expressly against them (Photius, \"Bibliotheca,\" cod. 230), shows that the Dositheans existed and even exercised a certain power in the sixth century. Origen possibly refers to a Christian sect of the Dositheans, who in fact left no traces, while the Samaritan sect certainly continued to exist. In Egypt especially, the sect was probably numerous enough to induce the Christian patriarch of Alexandria to engage in polemics against it.\n\nIn Egypt the Arabic writers may have become acquainted with the Dositheans, though some may have survived also in Syria and Palestine, as is evident from the rabbinical sources. Al-Masudi, of the tenth century, says that the Samaritans were divided into two sects, that of the Kushan, or ordinary Samaritans (=\"Kuthim\"), and that of the Dostan (Dositheans; compare Δοσϑήν). Al-Shahrastani calls them \"Kusaniyyah\" and \"Dusitaniyyah.\" Abu al-Fatḥ says of the Dostan, the Samaritan Dositheans, that they abolished the festivals instituted by the Mosaic law, as well as the astronomical tables, counting thirty days in every month, without variation. It reminds one of the Sadducees, and is a further proof that the Dositheans were their spiritual descendants. The statement that the festivals were abolished, probably means that the Dositheans celebrated them on other days than the Jews; but as, according to a trustworthy statement of Epiphanius, the Dositheans celebrated the festivals together with the Pharisaic Jews, an approximation may well be assumed toward the Karaites, a sect with which the Samaritans had much in common in later times. The determination of the months by means of the testimony of witnesses may also have been a Karaite custom although that practise may go back to a time before the opposite view of the Pharisees existed. \n\nUnder the Abbasid califs the Samaritans persecuted the Dositheans, although they themselves had to suffer much. Under Ibrahim (218-227 of the Hegira) the synagogue of the Samaritans and Dositheans at Nablus was burned by heretics, but it was subsequently rebuilt. Yusuf ibn Dasi, governor of Palestine, entirely forbade the worship of the Dositheans; and the sect may in consequence have been absorbed by the Samaritans.\n\n"}
{"id": "602598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602598", "title": "Edmund Gurney", "text": "Edmund Gurney\n\nEdmund Gurney (23 March 1847 – 23 June 1888) was an English psychologist and parapsychologist. At the time the term for research of paranormal activities was \"psychical research\".\n\nGurney was born at Hersham, near Walton-on-Thames. He was educated at Blackheath and at Trinity College, Cambridge, from 1866, where he took fourth place in the classical tripos and obtained a fellowship in 1872. His work for the tripos was done, said his friend F. W. H. Myers, in the intervals of his practice on the piano. Dissatisfied with his own executive skill as a musician, he wrote \"The Power of Sound\" (1880), an essay on the philosophy of music.\n\nHe then studied medicine with no intention of practising, devoting himself to physics, chemistry and physiology. In 1880 he passed the second M.B. Cambridge (medical science). In 1881 he began the study of law at Lincoln's Inn.\n\nIn relation to psychical research, he asked whether there is an unexplored region of human faculty transcending the normal limitations of sensible knowledge. Gurney's purpose was to approach the subject by observation and experiment, especially in the hypnotism field. He wanted to investigate the persistence of the conscious human personality after the death of the body. Three of his sisters died when their barge overturned in the Nile River during a tour of Egypt in 1875. Their passing profoundly affected him and his research was partially fueled by a desire to find some meaning to their deaths.\n\nGurney began at what he later saw was the wrong end by studying, with Myers, the séances of professed spiritualistic mediums (1874–1878). Little but detection of imposture came of this. In 1882 the Society for Psychical Research was founded. Paid mediums were discarded, at least for the time, and experiments were made in thought-transference and hypnotism. Personal evidence as to uninduced hallucinations was also collected. \n\nThe first results are embodied in the volumes of \"Phantasms of the Living\", a vast collection (Frank Podmore, Myers and Gurney), and in Gurney's essay, \"Hallucinations\". Evidence for the process called telepathy was supposed to be established by the experiments chronicled in the \"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research\", and it was argued that similar experiences occurred spontaneously, as, for example, in the many recorded instances of deathbed wraiths. The dying man was supposed to convey the hallucination of his presence as one living person experimentally conveys his thought to another, by thought-transference.\n\nGurney's hypnotic experiments were undertaken in the years 1885 to 1888. Their tendency was, in Myers's view, to prove that there is sometimes, in the induction of hypnotic phenomena, some agency at work which is neither ordinary nervous stimulation nor suggestion conveyed by any ordinary channel to the subject's mind. These results, if accepted, would corroborate the idea of telepathy. Experiments by Joseph Gibert, Paul Janet, Charles Richet, Méricourt and others were cited as tending in the same direction.\n\nOther experiments dealt with the relation of the memory in the hypnotic state to the memory in another hypnotic state, and of both to the normal memory. Gurney's research into psychic matters was respected by contemporaries. However, it has since then been argued to be deeply flawed: Gurney trusted in the assistance of one George Albert Smith, a theatrical performer and producer. Smith was the one handling the actual experiments into telepathy, hypnotism, and the rest, and Gurney fully accepted his results. According to Hall, in the spring of 1888 Gurney discovered that Smith had used his knowledge of theatrical trickery and stage illusion to fake tests and results; so that the value of the tests (with which Gurney was building up his reputation) were worthless. Douglas Blackburn, Smith's principal partner in the mentalist performances and experiments, publicly admitted fraud in 1908 and again in 1911, although Smith denied it.\n\nHe died at Brighton on 23 June 1888, from the effects of an overdose of chloroform. At the inquest Arthur Thomas Myers, the brother of F.W.H. Myers, testified to having prescribed chloroform for neuralgia, and a verdict of accidental death was recorded. It was widely thought at the time that Gurney might have committed suicide, and Alice James recorded this in her diary. Trevor Hall in his study \"The Strange Case of Edmund Gurney\" has argued the case that Gurney's death was suicide, resulting from disillusionment after discovering the frauds of Blackburn and Smith. Gordon Epperson argues against this hypothesis and Janet Oppenheim concludes that \"the mystery is not likely to be resolved\".\n\nIn addition to his work on music and his psychological writings, he was the author of \"Tertium Quid\" (1887), a collection of essays, the title a protest against one-sided ideas and methods of discussion.\n\nIn 1877 Gurney married Kate Sara Sibley. They had one daughter, Helen, born in 1881. After Gurney's death, Kate married Archibald Grove, a journalist and politician, in 1889.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15245441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15245441", "title": "Gormogon (Bones)", "text": "Gormogon (Bones)\n\nThe Gormogon is a fictional character featured in a story arc of Season 3 of the FOX drama \"Bones\".\n\nThe Gormogon was introduced as a cannibalistic serial killer in the third-season premiere, \"The Widow's Son in the Windshield\", and has made appearances in the form of teeth marks on bones examined by the Jeffersonian scientists. He makes his first on-screen appearance in \"The Knight on the Grid\" (episode 8), although his former master, Arthur Graves, appears earlier in that episode, and his late apprentice, Jason Harkness (Andrew James Allen), appeared in the season premiere. Before the season finale \"The Pain in the Heart\", reviewers and fans speculated that the audience has actually already met him, perhaps being psychologist Dr. Lance Sweets.\n\nThis belief was partially validated later in the season when the show's executive producer, Hart Hanson, stated in an interview with EW.com suggested that either the Gormogon or his apprentice is someone the fans are fond of. In the season finale, this statement is confirmed when Dr. Brennan finds that Zack Addy had lied about some of his earlier conclusions, leading Dr. Brennan and Agent Seeley Booth to realize that Zack must be the apprentice. The team finally tracks down the Gormogon with the information provided by Zack as to the location of the Gormogon's home, and Booth kills him; he has not been given a name, and he has been described by Sweets as \"a nobody, an invisible man, angry at history for not seeing him\". The stunt performer — Laurence Todd Rosenthal — who played the current (and presumably last) Gormogon, went uncredited; the character had no spoken dialogue and appeared on screen only briefly.\n\nWhen particles left on a victim's skull led Dr. Temperance Brennan and Seeley Booth to a vault in an old bank, they discover tapestries, paintings, books, and other artifacts related to a number of mystical orders and traditions, including Kabbalah, Freemasonry, and Gnosticism. One of these tapestries included the imagery of the wolf, a symbol of freedom and power, which reflected in the killer's dentures, which were made exclusively with real canine teeth only (canines being symbolic of the wolf). The key feature of the vault is a silver skeleton arranged in a \"widow's son\" pose, a position known to the ancient Greeks as one of sacrifice. Parts of the silver skeleton had been replaced with actual bone, which bear teeth marks from two different individuals, suggesting ritualistic consumption of flesh. The vault also yields a tapestry whose pattern corresponds to specific locations in Washington, D.C. and to tarot cards showing different archetypes, such as the Musician, the Bishop, and the Corruptor. The map provides a schematic for the Gormogon's activities, including the atomic location of the sculpture and of another, older sculpture and the residence of the Gormogon's old master, and the order of archetypes which are being integrated, via their bones, into the sculpture.\n\nThe Gormogons were an anti-Masonic order of the 18th century. They are mentioned in scattered writings of the era, and accusations of association with them may have been used as a political weapon, as the very existence of the order involved a rejection of Masonic ideas. However, only the name has any relevance on the show, as Hodgins borrows it to refer to the killer for his dual reverence for and apparent dislike of secret societies and fraternal orders, including the Knights of Columbus. Hodgins' and Sweets' understanding of typical practices among orders, such as the master-apprentice relationship, ritualistic meals, and sacred geometry inform the ongoing investigation of the murders.\n\nTwo skeleton sculptures have been found, one of which was constructed by Arthur Graves and the current Gormogon, the other by Jason Harkness and the current Gormogon. The former was completely made of bone, while the latter was still mostly silver. Not all the victims have yet been identified, but at least one bone in each sculpture was added for its significance to its owner. The three victims named below all lost their fathers at young ages, making them \"widows' sons\" and thus doubly symbolic as a sacrifice to the Gormogon. They were all involved with a trip to the Anatolian region of Turkey, and associated with the Knights of Columbus.\n\n"}
{"id": "22302832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22302832", "title": "Hervé Yamguen", "text": "Hervé Yamguen\n\nHerve Yamguen (born 1971 in Douala) is a Cameroonian painter and sculptor.\nAutodidact, he launched himself in painting, sculpture and he discovered a passion for the writing which enables him to wonder about its daily live. He currently works on plays.\n\nHe grew in Douala where he lives and works in one of the most popular districts of the city, \"New Bell\". It is this environment which nourishes the imaginary of Hervé whose plastic work turns around the face, the body and the place of it in the world.\n\nHerve Yamguen was born into a family with deeply rooted traditions, who initially refused to accept his choice to become an artist. From childhood, he was attracted by the way in which artists interpret reality in their works. He realizes that \"making art\" guides one out of ignorance and lets one wonder about the human being. He started painting at the age of 17 and fully embraces the profession of artist by the late 1980s, after refusing to enter the monastery. After that his family encouraged him to continue on his path of artist.\nSelf-taught, he learned by reading about art history, which led him to develop his singular vision of art. Subsequently, he received a year of training (2000-2001) at École des Arts Décoratifs (ESAD) in Strasbourg, France. He has done many study and production residencies in Cameroon and abroad.\n\nHervé Yamguen is also known for his writing (several publications) about the visual arts (drawing, painting, sculpture). He has made a few forays into photography, performance, installation and has regularly done stage designs for the theater. The themes present in his work are eroticism, the questioning of the human-plant-animal and bird. Through these themes, he tells the story of humans and invites one to look at life with wonder; the small details of daily life that represent the beauty of the world and make life more pleasurable. Yamguen is inspired by the work (technical, power of the work, style) of several writers and artists who work on wonder, whimsy and imagination: Matisse, Picasso, Henri Michaud, and the surrealist poets. The artist wants to invite the public to reflect on his humanity in order to become better.\nAccording to him, the reception of his work is not enthusiastic: either it is too risqué or inaccessible.\n\nHervé Yamguen is one of the members of the Cercle Kapsiki. As a member of the cercle, it took part in Scénographies Urbaines, (Urban Scenographies) in January 2003, a project born from the meeting of Cameroonian artists. The idea consists of a residence of artists from all over the world located in the popular district of \"New Bell\"in Douala: the project aimed at leading artists to express themselves and exchange with the inhabitants of the district of Douala whose reputation was not the best.\nThe stereotypes had to be broken to create new words. The communication had to be reinvented.\nIt is during the workshop in the district New Bell that the Kapsiki circle (Hervé Youmbi, Hervé Yamguen, Blaise Bang, Salifou Lindou, Jules Wokam) and the collective Skurk (J-C Lanquetin, François Duconseille) invited other artists from Cameroon, France, Democratic Republic of the Congo and Lebanon, to share with the district’s population details of their lives.\n\nHe exposed in 2003 a work at the Mam gallery within the framework of the project \"Pièce Unique\", initiated by the French Cultural centre of Douala. He also published a long poem \" Le temps de la saison verte\" (The time of the green season), in 1998. A new book is published by the French Cultural centre of Douala.\n\nRecently inducted as a notable in the village of his father (Bandja-Balassie in the upper Nkam), he reconnects with the codes of the rituals and customs, while maintaining his posture of contemporary artist.\n\nHis work has been shown in various countries around the world. In France and Germany repeatedly and recently in Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal (2015 and 2016). Beside his work as a creative, Yamguen has served other functions in the art world. He taught fine arts at the secondary level (in 2005 and 2006 in Douala). He was the artistic director of the three editions (2011, 2012 and 2013) of the Marché des Arts Plastiques de Bali (a district in Douala).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7149010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7149010", "title": "Igwegbe Odum", "text": "Igwegbe Odum\n\nEze Igwegbe Odum (sometimes called Chief Igwebe Odum) was an Aro Igbo politician born in the Nigerian town of Mbaukwu in present day Awka South LGA in Anambra state. Igwegbe Odum, was not Aro by origin, but a migrant like many settlers in Arondizuogu. Along with his brothers, he fled to Arondizuogu in the late 19th century. His life story became the subject of Omenuko the earliest Igbo novel written by Peter Nwana. Odum died in 1940. He was also a brother-in-law to Ojiako Ezenne of Adazi. Igwegbe Odum never made it back to his homeland of Mbaukwu. Along with his brothers, he settled in Ndiuche in Arondizuogu. Their lineage include the legendary K.O. Mbadiwe and his brother Green Mbadiwe.\n\n"}
{"id": "16906786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16906786", "title": "Iranian Kazakhs", "text": "Iranian Kazakhs\n\nIranian Kazakhs live mainly in the Golestān Province in northern Iran. According to ethnologue.org, however, there were 3000 Kazakhs living in Iran in 1982 in the city of Gorgan. The number of Iranian Kazakhs might have been slightly higher, because many of them returned to Kazakhstan after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, from where they had immigrated to Iran after the Bolshevik October Revolution (1917).\n\nCurrently, the city of Gorgan contains 5000 ethnic Kazakhs, who speak Kazakh, Persian on varying levels.\n\nThe first Kazakhs arrived from the territory of Turkmenistan into the northeastern city of Gorgan in 1929. Since then, Kazakh immigration has experienced three distinct waves. The first occurred with the creation of the Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic. The second wave occurred with the fall of the Soviet Union, which saw the population of Kazakh-Iranians swell significantly. Unlike the previous wave of immigration, these individuals were acculturated with the Russian language, rather than Kazakh. The final wave has been ongoing since 2007 and consists of economic migrants arriving from the western provinces of Atyrau and Mangystau to the cities of Gorgan, Bandar Torkaman and Gonbad-e Qabus.\n\n"}
{"id": "3014139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3014139", "title": "Jacob Snider", "text": "Jacob Snider\n\nJacob Snider (January 1, 1811 – October 25, 1866) was an American mechanical engineer and inventor. He invented and patented a method of converting existing muzzle-loading rifles into breech-loading rifles, notably the Snider-Enfield.\n\nOriginally from Montgomery, Georgia, Snider later moved to Philadelphia, but died in poverty in Kilburn, London, England while attempting to recover promised compensation from the British government.\nHe was survived by his wife Angelina and several sons, and is buried in Kensal Green Cemetery, London.\n\nSnider worked for the Pennsylvania Institute for the Blind, and in 1833, he produced the first raised print book in the United States. His method, which involved carving the letters into a sheet of copper by hand, was soon abandoned.\n"}
{"id": "56981441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56981441", "title": "Jacques-Gabriel Bulliot", "text": "Jacques-Gabriel Bulliot\n\nJacques-Gabriel Bulliot (January 23, 1817 in Autun – January 13, 1902) was a French historian and wine merchant, and a member of the Eduenne Society of Arts, Sciences and Arts, founded in Autun in 1836. He discovered the site of Bibracte he located at Mont Beuvray (Saône-et-Loire).\n\nHe undertook many excavations on the site between 1867 and 1895, when he entrusted the work to his nephew Joseph Déchelette.\n\n"}
{"id": "40167145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40167145", "title": "Jaime Fabregas", "text": "Jaime Fabregas\n\nJaime Francisco Garcia Fàbregas is a Spanish Filipino actor and professional musical scorer.\n\nJaime Fàbregas was born in Iriga City, Camarines Sur, Philippines to his parents Pedro Fàbregas and Isabel Garcia.\n\nFàbregas is also a former host of a gag show \"Sic O Clock News\" on IBC 13. Fàbregas is also a former Wrestling segment reporter of \"Pinoy Wrestling\" on PTV 4, where he was dubbed as the Pinoy version of WWE Reporter Mean Gene Okerlund.\n\nHe is also a musical scorer having won awards for his works in films. \"Shake, Rattle & Roll\" which was screened at the 1984 Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF) was the recipient of the Best Music accolade, a film which he did the musical score for. He also did the musical score of Rizal sa Dapitan and Kutob which screened at the 1997 and 2005 MMFF respectively. Both films were given the Best Musical Score award.\n\nFàbregas currently plays Delfin Borja in the ABS-CBN action-drama series Ang Probinsyano, starring Coco Martin.\n\nHe was married and divorced to Leticia Caballero with whom he has three children. His daughter Lara Fàbregas is also an actress, his son Paolo Fàbregas is also an actor for both theater, TV and movies. He was also married but now separated to Ma. Consuelo Tordesillas with whom he has four children. In addition to his seven children, Fabregas also has twelve grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "34400353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34400353", "title": "James R. Arnold", "text": "James R. Arnold\n\nJames Richard Arnold (May 5, 1923 – January 6, 2012) was the Harold C. Urey Professor of Chemistry (emeritus), and a noted pioneer in the field of planetary and space chemistry at the University of California at San Diego (UCSD), where an endowed lectureship has been established in his name.\n\nArnold received his education at Princeton University, where he enrolled as an undergraduate at age 16. He earned his doctorate there in 1946 at 23, for work on the Manhattan Project (his thesis is still classified). Concerns about nuclear fallout and war prompted him to be an early member of the Union of Concerned Scientists and a World Federalist, through which he met his wife Louise in 1950.\n\nAs a Postdoctoral researcher under Willard Libby at the University of Chicago, Arnold helped develop the techniques for Carbon-14 dating, working with archeological samples from Egypt and other samples with known ages. For this work, Libby was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1960.\n\nAfter his postdoc, Arnold returned to Princeton as a faculty member, working on using cosmic rays to measure the age of rocks., and where he began his work on extraterrestrial material, including cosmic rays. It was at Princeton that Masatake (Masa) Honda and Devendra Lal first joined his work, an association amongst them that would last the rest of their lives.\n\nIn 1957, Roger Revelle was working to start UCSD near the campus of Scripps Institution of Oceanography. He recruited Arnold and a few others to be the founding faculty. The recruitment of Harold C. Urey convinced Arnold to accept and move west in 1958, leaving Princeton to become the founding chair of the UCSD Department of Chemistry and help found the campus and recruit faculty. He was a NASA consultant for many years, helping set scientific research priorities, starting just three months after NASA was founded. He played a major role in establishing and reforming the Lunar Receiving Laboratory for handling lunar samples returned during the Apollo program, including being one of the \"Four Horsemen\", along with Bob Walker, Paul Werner Gast, and Gerry Wasserburg.\n\nArnold performed his own research on lunar rocks and cosmic rays. Under the name SHRELLDALFF (from the initials of its members), his team produced important early papers, and he continued long afterwards with lunar studies, including measurements of the bombardment of the lunar surface by cosmic rays, helping to plot the energy output of the Sun over millions of years. For his work he was awarded the NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal in 1970.\n\nAt the request of then-Governor Jerry Brown, he founded the University of California's California Space Institute (CalSpace) in 1979, and was its first director for ten years,\n\nAsteroid 2143, \"Jimarnold\", was named for Arnold by its discoverers, E. F. Helin and Gene Shoemaker, in 1980 for his work on computer models of meteorite travel.\n\nArnold was a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a Foreign Fellow of the Indian National Science Academy.\n\nArnold was also known for wild shirts, a relief from the formal dress required at Princeton.\nHe was married to Louise Arnold for 60 years, and they had three sons, Bob, Ted, and Ken.\n\n"}
{"id": "45657724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45657724", "title": "Jax (singer)", "text": "Jax (singer)\n\nJackie Miskanic (born May 5, 1996), known professionally as Jax, is an American singer from East Brunswick, New Jersey. She finished third on the fourteenth season of \"American Idol\", an American singing competition series.\n\nJax was raised in Atlantic Beach, New York, and moved with her family in 2005 to East Brunswick, New Jersey. She began singing at age 5. Her father is a firefighter, injured on duty during the September 11 attacks, and her mother is a New York City school teacher. In mid-2014, she studied at New York University in London, where she won the John Lennon Scholarship in songwriting via the BMI Foundation.\n\nJax auditioned for the fourteenth season of \"American Idol\", with the song \"I Want To Hold Your Hand\" by The Beatles. She sang \"Toxic\" by Britney Spears for her first solo audition during Hollywood Week. Jax sang The Beatles’ \"Let It be\" for her final solo performance. She was the only contestant out of 80 to be declared safe immediately after the performance. In April 2015, Jax became the New Jersey's most successful \"American Idol\" contestant. In March 2015, she performed at the Filmore in Detroit, Michigan wearing #thedress. She performed Janis Joplin’s \"Piece of My Heart\" with Steven Tyler during the show’s season finale. Jax finished third in the competition, and her first single, \"Forcefield\", was released following the finale. In July 2015, Jax and the other top five American Idol contestants began the American Idols LIVE! Tour 2015. The tour began in Clearwater, Florida and is scheduled to end in Riverside, California. The top 3 all released a single each, the top 4 all released an extended play each, \"American Idol Season 14: Best of Jax - EP\", and the season 14 top 9, 8, 7, 6, and 5 all released a contribution each.\n\nJax's first post-\"Idol\" recording, \"La La Land\", was released on January 6, 2016. Her first music video was released later that day, for \"La La Land\". The song is lyrically about her experience on \"American Idol\".\n\nIn August 2016, Jax revealed that she was battling thyroid cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "42408329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42408329", "title": "John Eugène, 8th Count de Salis-Soglio", "text": "John Eugène, 8th Count de Salis-Soglio\n\nLt. Colonel John (Jean) Eugène de Salis, 8th Count de Salis, FRGS, \"Graf v. Salis-Soglio\", (*Brussels 4 October 1891–†London 12 June 1949), eldest son of Sir John Francis Charles de Salis, KCMG, CVO, 7th Count de Salis, of the Holy Roman Empire, of Lough Gur House, Monasteranenagh, Kilmallock, Co. Limerick, and the Grisons, Switzerland.\n\nHis mother, a descendant of Philipe de Croÿ, Duke of Aerschot (of the House of Croÿ), Pierre-Paul Riquet and both Émilie Pellapra and Thérésa Tallien, whom his father had married in Brussels on 6 December 1890, was Hélène Marie de Riquet, Comtesse de Caraman-Chimay (Château de Ménars 18 August 1864 – Bruxelles 31 May 1902). The eldest daughter of Marie Eugène Auguste de Riquet, Prince de Caraman-Chimay (Ménars 1847–Chimay 1881), (son of 17th Prince de Chimay), by Louise de Graffenried-Villars (1842–1901), she died aged 37, when John her eldest son was still only 10, a mere 13 days after the birth of her third son.\n\nDe Salis succeeded his father 37 years later in 1939, in the meantime he had been made and given a Bailiff Grand Cross, Order of Malta; the Order of the Crown of Roumania; a Chevalier Legion of Honour; and a Montenegrin Military Medal/Silver medal for bravery (1918).\n\nHe was educated at Jesuit Beaumont College and read modern history at Balliol College, Oxford 1910–1914, (4th class BA 1914, MA 1917).\nAt Oxford he won the Officers' Training Corps' Company and Long Range Cups, and the Officers' Challenge Cup; was in the Snap-shooting team; won 2nd prize, Half-section Jumping, O.T.C. v Cambridge; was in the Oxford University Fencing Club (Sabres) v. Cambridge in 1913 and 1914. The 1914 \"varsity\" match was held at Tassart's Salle D'Armes, Oxford Circus, London. Tickets were 2/6.\n\nServed in World War I, the European War 1914–19, in 1st Life Guards and Irish Guards (Lt. September 1914), twice wounded, 15 September 1916 and July 1917; Captain on special service in the Balkans. Attached British Embassy, Paris, as an assistant to military attaché, 1918–19 (specially attached to Marshal Joffre); entered Diplomatic Service, 1920; appointed 3rd Secretary, Washington; transferred Tokyo, 1921–22. Aide-de-Camp to the Earl of Lytton when Governor of Bengal, 1925–27; Adjutant Indian Army Rifle Team, 1927–29; Commandant Indian Army Rifle Team, Bisley, 1930–34. Delegate of the Order of St John of Jerusalem for revision of Geneva Convention 1929. Served War of 1939–45; Captain on Military Mission under War Cabinet Office: France 1939–40, here Captain Count John de Salis was drafted last minute, replacing a Captain Purvis, nominally as the HRH the Duke of Windsor's translator for his controversial trip to France in October 1939 and in co-writing his \"Report on Visit to the First French Army and Detachments D'Army des Ardennes\". Writing in 2012 in his book \"The Duke of Windsor's War\", Michael Bloch describing this expedition speaks of: \"the brilliant and subtle de Salis\", as \"a delightful secret service diplomatist with cosmopolitan connections who, by an extraordinary coincidence, had known the Duchess (then Mrs Earl Winfield Spencer) while attached to the Washington Embassy in the early 1920s.\" They set off on 6 October 1939, the party comprised: five staff, Fruity Metcalfe, de Salis and the Duke.\n\nLater in World War II he was Senior Civil Affairs Officer (SCAO) for Asmara and Hamasien, Eritrea, 1943–44; Lt. Col.; Aide-de-Camp to Field Marshal Lord Alexander, who was commander-in-chief of the British forces in the campaign for the liberation of Italy from 1943 to 1945.\n\nHe married in Rome 8 March 1947 Maria Camilla Presti di Camarda, (born 23 January 1926, died Richmond 1 May 1953), daughter of General Umberto de Presti by Teresa Vignola.\nThey lived at 10 Priory Grove (now Priory Walk), South Kensington, SW10, and had one son and heir: John de Salis.\n\nPratt's; Bachelors', and RAC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3601320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3601320", "title": "José Félix Ribas", "text": "José Félix Ribas\n\nJosé Félix Ribas (; Caracas, 19 September 1775 – Tucupido, 31 January 1815), was a Venezuelan independence leader and hero of the Venezuelan War of Independence.\n\nRibas was the last of eleven sons, born to a prominent Caracas family. In his early years, he received a quality education and attended the city's seminary. After finishing his studies, he began working in the agrarian sector. At the age of 21 he married María Josefa Palacios, the aunt of Simón Bolívar. He soon became interested in Republican ideals and sympathetic to the revolutionary independence movement.\n\nRibas became involved in the Conspiracy of 1808, but was taken prisoner after its failure. In his defense, he stated that on the day of the action, he was just heading to a public square to spend time. Actually, Ribas was frequenting the square to meet with other republicans to plan an uprising. He was later freed by the authorities.\n\nWhen the Revolution of 19 April 1810 was taking place, it was reported that Ribas was seen travelling throughout the entire city, encouraging people to join-in the demonstrations against Spanish rule. In the aftermath he joined the interim government on April 25, taking charge of the municipality of Caracas.\n\nApart from his political functions in the interim government, and despite having no military background, Ribas was named Colonel of the Barlovento Battalion which he helped set up with his own funds. He also maintained some contact with Francisco de Miranda, and offered him all possible support when Miranda arrived in the country. Along with other fellow Republicans, he became a member of the Sociedad Patriótica organized by Francisco de Miranda, in contradistinction to the New Venezuelan Congress which was ruled mostly by the landed few. The Sociedad Patriótica was modeled after a French Jacobin Club, encouraging the practice of oratory on equality of rights to all citizens.\n\nDuring a brief period of Venezuelan independence (the Second Republic of Venezuela under the stewardship of Simón Bolívar), Ribas fought in numerous battles of the \"Campaña Admirable\"; however the most crucial episode was the battle of \"La Victoria\" (12 February 1814) in which he and his comrades succeeded in foiling the advance of José Tomás Boves's formidable royalist forces (commanded in this battle by proxy Francisco Tomás Morales, while Boves recovered from wounds). Ribas won this victory with inexperienced troops, composed mainly of youths, students, and seminary candidates that Ribas has succeeded in recruiting. Ribas told his young soldiers, his charges, before a crucial battle that \"We have no choice between victory or death, we must achieve victory\" (\"No podemos optar entre vencer o morir, es necesario vencer\"). After many hours of fierce resistance, Republican reinforcements arrived under the command of Vicente Campo Elías. It is in honor of this episode of Venezuelan history that modern Venezuelan citizens now celebrate the \"Día de la Juventud\" (\"Day of Youth\"). each 12 February.\n\nHe fought vigorously in the Battle of Urica in which the republican forces lost but his royalist nemesis Boves was killed. After this battle, his forces assisted in offering a last desperate resistance to Morales at the Battle of Maturín; however this effort also was defeated. Ribas, together with a nephew and a faithful servant, was forced to flee from the victorious royalists. However, he was ultimately betrayed to the royalists by a slave. He was captured and executed by beheading. Ribas's lopped off head, after having been fried in cooking oil, was sent to Caracas. There, it was placed in public display within a small cage with the intention of demoralizing the patriots.\n\nAlmost two centuries later, Ribas' deeds were commemorated by the Hugo Chávez government when it named one of the Bolivarian Missions \"Missión Ribas\" in his honor. There are also two Venezuelan municipalities named after him, José Félix Ribas Municipality, Aragua state; and José Félix Ribas Municipality, Guárico state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56907865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56907865", "title": "Kakon Bibi", "text": "Kakon Bibi\n\nNoorjahan Kakon Bibi (, ; died 21 March 2018) was an Indian Bangladeshi freedom fighter and secret agent of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. She was arrested and brutally tortured by the Pakistan army. She is one of two female freedom fighters honored with the Bir Protik award in 1996, the fourth highest honor in Bangladesh due to her gallant contribution in the liberation war.\n\nNoorjahan Kakon Bibi was born, as Kaket Hennyata (other sources state Kaket Hanchiata) in a Khasi family at Nayrai Khasia Palli, Meghalaya, India. Her sister was married to a member of the border guards, She got married to Shaheed Ali of Dirai village in 1970. After her marriage, her name was changed to Noorjahan Begum but she was mostly known as Kakon Bibi. She gave birth to a baby girl Sakhina on 16 March 1971. Because of discrimination against girls in India, her husband was displeased and they got separated. Later she was married to Abdul Majid Khan, and they had a son who died at birth Majid was living in EPR camp where he also worked. After two months, she brought Sakhina from her previous home. But she couldn't find her husband, Abdul Majid Khan, after returning. Hearing that Majid had been transferred to a camp of Dowarabazar Upazila she went there.\n\nA war was happening in the Dowarabazar area when Kakon went to there to search for her husband. She went to Tengratilla camp. Their Pakistani Army captured her in a bunker and she faced inhuman physical and mental torture for many days. She left her hope for finding husband and joined Muktibahini (the gerrila resistance movement formed by the Bangladesh military, paramilitary and civilians during the War of Liberation. Freedom fighter Rahmat Ali introduced her to sector five commander, Mir Shawkat Ali. Shawkat called Kakon Bibi his sister of religion. With his influence, she started working as a secret agent under a disguise of a beggar.\n\nIn April 1971 Kakon Bibi was captured by the Razakars while spying in Bangla bazar in the region of Dowarabazar Upazila. They tortured her immensely including burning with a hot iron rod. Sexual torture was also intensified. Later they took her to the Pakistani camp in Tengratilla. There, she told the Pakistani commander that she is the wife of Pakistani soldier Abdul Majid Khan and she came in search of him. The Pakistani commander believed her. Rather, she was proposed to work for the Pakistanis. She agreed and began to help freedom fighters providing information in a more effective way. This was primarily achieved through receiving an identification card from the Pakistani commander. With that ID card she started going to the Pakistani camp more often and with greater ease and supplied the freedom fighters with important information.\n\nLater Kakon took part in nearly 20 battlefronts. In November, she was engaged in a front war in Tengratilla where she was deeply injured. The injury marks were visible on her knee till her death.\n\nKakon Bibi was hospitalised in 2017 after a heart attack. She died of pneumonia at Sylhet MAG Osmani Medical College and Hospital on 21 March 2018. At the time of her death, Kakon Bibi's age could not be verified. Reports range from 85 or 90 to an age of 103.\n"}
{"id": "25557261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25557261", "title": "Karakoz Abdaliev", "text": "Karakoz Abdaliev\n\nLieutenant Karakoz Abdaliev ( (1908 – October 22, 1943) was a Soviet soldier who was awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union posthumously in 1943 for his actions during the Battle of the Dnieper. He was reported to have killed 72 German soldiers and destroyed two tanks.\n\nAbdalev was born in a peasant family of Kazakh ethnicity in Chimkent Uyezd, Syr-Darya Oblast, in Russian Turkestan in the Russian Empire (present-day Tole Bi District, Kazakhstan) in 1908. He attended school and graduated in 1924, after the Russian Revolution of 1917. From 1924 until 1941 he worked on the Taldybulak Kolkhoz.\n\nHe joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1940, and was called up from the Kazakh SSR in 1941. He fought on the Eastern Front (World War II) from 1942. Abdaliev became a lieutenant and platoon leader in the 690th Rifle Regiment of the 126th Rifle Division, part of the 51st Army.\n\nAbdaliev fought in the Battle of the Dnieper in late 1943. In fighting near Melitopol, in modern-day Ukraine, on 21–22 October 1943 he was reported by the Presidium of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union to have cleared 17 houses occupied by the Wehrmacht in addition to having destroyed 23 machine-gun posts, two tanks and killed more than 72 German soldiers. However, he was killed in the fighting and posthumously awarded the title of Hero of the Soviet Union and the Order of Lenin for \"exemplary performance of command assignments at the front against the Nazi invaders and for displaying courage and heroism\". He was buried south of Melitopol.\n\nIn addition to his HSU medal, a bust of him was erected in Fogolevo, South Kazakhstan Province. A street is named after him in Melitopol with a plaque remembering his achievements.\n\n"}
{"id": "53047783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53047783", "title": "Lilah Denton Lindsey", "text": "Lilah Denton Lindsey\n\nLilah Denton Lindsey (October 21, 1860 - 1943), an American philanthropist, civic leader, women's community organizer, temperance worker, and teacher. She was the first Creek woman to earn a college degree, and served as president of the Indian Territory Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU).\n\nLilah Denton was born near Blue Creek, Coweta District, Creek Nation, Indian Territory. Her father, John Denton, was a Cherokee and her mother, Susan (McKellop), was a Creek. Both were born in Alabama of Scotch ancestry, and as children came during the early 1830s to the Creek Nation of Indian Territory. Susan was of a missionary family, and becoming a physician, she practiced in the Creek Nation in the early days. Lindsey was the youngest in a family of six children, four of whom died in infancy, and one at the age of 12 years.\n\nLindsey acquired her first education in the old Admission School of the Creek Nation. Her mother had been educated in the same school, and Lindsey sought every opportunity to study. At that time, Muscogee girls were not allowed to enter schools until the age of 12, and one of her early disappointments was when she was taken at the age of eight to the mission school but was not allowed to enter. Her first teacher at Tullahassee Mission was Eliza J. Baldwin, and who more than any other one person was instrumental in directing the education of Lindsey and encouraging her interest in the broad field of philanthropy which she made her life work. \n\nAt the age of 16, Lindsey's parents both died, and through the influence of friends she went to Hillsboro, Ohio, having previously attended a seminary at Fulton, Missouri. At Hillsboro, she entered the Highland Institute, and was graduated with honors in the class of 1883. She was the first Creek Indian girl to graduate from that institution. While there, she was urged to take a medical course in order that she might practice among her own people, since she possessed, partly as an inheritance from her mother, a natural ability for such work, and she became an excellent nurse. In her childhood, Lindsey spoke only the Muscogee language, and while in school, devoted herself assiduously to the learning of the English language. The spring before her graduation from Hillsboro, she was appointed by the Home Mission Board of schools at New York City to teach at the Wealaka Mission in Oklahoma, to which point the old Tullahassee Mission had been transferred.\n\nHer natural ability and her love for teaching soon gave her a high standing as an able educator in the old Indian Territory. She taught for a time at the Presbyterian Mission in Wealaka, also at the Coweta Mission, and for about three years at Tulsa. Altogether, she spent about 10 years in the mission schools. \n\nIn 1884, at the Wealaka Mission Miss Denton was married to Col. Lee W. Lindsey (born 1845, Ohio. He served in an Ohio regiment of cavalry during the American Civil War, and after peace was restored, went south and lived for several years in Alabama, and superintended the quarrying of stone for the building of the first machine shops at Birmingham. He became a building contractor, and during the 1870s, moved to the Creek Nation of Indian Territory. Colonel Lindsey completed the walls and enclosure of the old council house of the Creek Nation at Okmulgee. They moved to Tulsa, establishing a home there in 1886, and for many years, was one of the central figures in Northeastern Oklahoma. \n\nAfter her marriage and at the solicitation of her friends she was induced to accept the position of teacher in the national schools of Oklahoma, and the State Board of Education, having full confidence in her ability, did not require an examination, which was otherwise obligatory upon all teachers. \n\nIn the 28 years that Lindsey has made her home in Tulsa, her interests varied. She was a leader in many woman's organizations in Tulsa. She did individual charity work on a large scale for years. She visited the sick, personally secured donations for the needy, and practically did the work of a humane officer. She organized the Humane society. Her interest in charitable work attracted the attention of state officials. Oklahoma Governor Charles N. Haskell appointed her as the Oklahoma delegate to the International Tuberculosis Conference held at Washington, and she was sent to numerous state charity associations. She secured the donation of a tract of land for the Florence Crittenton Home for Fallen Girls at Tulsa, but failing health prevented her from completing its construction.\n\nFor years, Lindsey was one of the active factors in the Women's Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions of the Southwest. She was an ardent church worker and at one time was the oldest in member of the First Presbyterian church in Tulsa. She became a member of the WCTU and organized a union in her city. From that time until statehood, she was president of the Indian Territory WCTU and has later served as vice-president of the Oklahoma organization, president of the Tulsa County and the local union, and for one year edited the official organ of the Indian Territory WCTU. At the World's Convention of the WCTU held in Boston, Lindsey was introduced to the assembly of women from all nations as a 'real native of America.' Lindsey organized both the Maccabees and the Woman's Relief Corps at Tulsa. She was a member of the executive board of the latter organization and one year audited the books in Atlantic City. She attended nine national Grand Army of the Republic assemblies.\n\nLindsey established Tulsa's first woman's club, because she organized the Tulsa WCTU, the National WCTU being the first woman's club ever organized in America. She gave to Tulsa and Oklahoma their first police matron. Realizing what the office might be made to accomplish with girls taken into court, Lindsey found a woman broad enough and womanly enough with ability to fill the position. When she met with the council to propose that such an office be created, she had the preliminaries so well planned that the office was created and the woman she desired appointed and commissioned to begin work the following morning. She also served as vice-president of the Women's National Rivers and Harbors Congress. \n\nOne of the things in which she was intimately interested was the preservation of old Native American landmarks, especially the Creek Capitol Building at Okmulgee, which she hoped to see made into a museum for the preservation of Creek relics. Her husband built the stone wall about this building and set out the trees around it, and she taught a term of school in one of its rooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "25921570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25921570", "title": "List of Cypriots by net worth", "text": "List of Cypriots by net worth\n\nThis is a list of Cypriot billionaires by net worth. According to the \"Forbes\" magazine(March 2016), and other various sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16974129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16974129", "title": "List of The Amazing Race Asia contestants", "text": "List of The Amazing Race Asia contestants\n\nThis is a list of contestants who have appeared on the television series, \"The Amazing Race Asia\". Contestants with a pre-existing relationship form a team and race around the world against other teams to claim a grand prize of USD100,000. In total, 102 contestants comprising 51 teams of 2 have competed in the series.\n\nThe teams are arranged based on their placings and the team members are arranged based on the opening intro. Age appearing are during time of filming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47564961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47564961", "title": "List of VMan magazine cover models", "text": "List of VMan magazine cover models\n\nThis article is a catalog of actors and models who have appeared on \"VMan\" magazine, starting with the magazine's first issue in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "79234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79234", "title": "List of biblical names starting with T", "text": "List of biblical names starting with T\n\n<br>\nA – B – C – D – E – F – G – H – I – J – K – L – M – N – O – P – Q – R – S – T – U – V – Y – Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48226342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48226342", "title": "List of people declared venerable by Pope Paul VI", "text": "List of people declared venerable by Pope Paul VI\n\nPope Paul VI declared 85 individuals venerable, based on the recognition of their heroic virtues from 1963 to 1978.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27808690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27808690", "title": "Ma Guoliang", "text": "Ma Guoliang\n\nMa Guoliang () was a Hui Muslim military officer in the Qing dynasty, the son of General Ma Zhanao and younger brother of General Ma Anliang and older brother of Ma Suiliang (Ma Sui-liang) 馬遂良. He helped crush a rebel Muslims in the Dungan revolt (1895–1896) along with his brother Ma Anliang, holding them off at Jishi pass. His sons were Ma Tingbin (Ma T'ing-pin) 馬廷斌 aka Ma Quanqin 馬全欽, and Ma Jieqin 馬介欽.\n\nIn 1917 Ma Anliang ordered Ma Guoliang to suppress a rebellion of Tibetans in Xunhua who rebelled because of taxes Ma Anliang imposed on them. Ma Anliang did not report it to the central government in Beijing and was reprimanded for it, and Ma Qi was sent by the government to investigate the case and suppress the rebellion.\n\nMa Guoliang's son Ma Quanqin later defected to the Communists in 1949 and became a member of the Communist party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "290325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290325", "title": "Marianne Lamont Horinko", "text": "Marianne Lamont Horinko\n\nMarianne Lamont Horinko served as Acting Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from July 14, 2003 to November 5, 2003 during the first term of President George W. Bush. Prior to this appointment Horinko was Assistant Administrator for the Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER) at EPA, having been confirmed by the U.S. Senate on October 1, 2001. She continued on as Assistant Administrator until June 1, 2004.\n\nHorinko, an author and speaker on environmental cleanup policy, is currently the President of the Horinko Group, an environmental consulting firm focused on sustainability. She made an unsuccessful bid for a Virginia state Senate seat in late 2009.\n\nHorinko graduated from the University of Maryland, College Park with a Bachelor of Science in analytical chemistry in 1982 and from Georgetown University Law Center with a J.D. in 1986.\n\nHorinko was an attorney at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, involved in the areas of pesticides and hazardous waste counseling, Clean Water Act and Superfund litigation, and environmental audits in connection with business transactions. She was responsible for both the Superfund Settlements Project and the Information Network for Superfund Settlements, a policy group of over 120 companies, law firms, and other organizations headquartered in ML&B's Washington office.\n\nDuring the George H. W. Bush Administration, Horinko was Attorney Advisor to Don Clay, EPA's Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response. In that capacity she was responsible for Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) regulatory issues and Superfund reauthorization. Clay was a career EPA employee who was elevated to the assistant administrator position by William K. Reilly.\n\nAfter EPA, Horinko was president of Clay Associates, Inc., a national environmental policy consulting firm. She was responsible for launching the RCRA Policy Forum, a membership organization composed of federal and state governments, environmental groups, Capitol Hill staff, and industries interested in furthering constructive dialogue to improve the nation's waste programs. Through July, 1998, Don Clay was serving as president of Don Clay Associates Inc., \"a Washington, D.C.-based public policy consulting firm devoted to solid and hazardous waste regulation and environmental cleanup issues.\" At that time, he took the position of director of regulatory affairs with Koch Industries, one of the companies DCA had been advising, to be based in Washington.\n\nBack at EPA during her tenure as Assistant Administrator, Horinko refocused the goals of her office around five major priorities: Homeland Security/Emergency Response; One Cleanup Program; Land Revitalization; Energy Recovery, Recycling & Waste Minimization; a Retail Environmental Initiative (the Resource Conservation Challenge) and Workforce Development. Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, she spent her first few months at EPA in the role of assisting in environmental cleanup activities at Ground Zero in lower Manhattan, the Pentagon in Washington, D.C., and the anthrax attack at the Hart Senate Office Building.\n\nIn 2003, as national program manager, Horinko oversaw EPA's response to the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster. The Brownfields program was signed into law by President Bush in 2002. Under her leadership, the budget for the Brownfields program was doubled.\n\nIn mid-May, 2004, in the leadup to the 2004 election, Horinko was questioned in the media relative to an EPA rule about industrial laundry and toxic waste, on the one hand, and gifts to the Bush campaign, particularly by Cintas Corporation founder and Bush Pioneer fundraiser Richard T. Farmer, on the other. Cintas, headquartered in the greater Cincinnati area in the electoral-battleground state of Ohio, was then the biggest company in the industrial laundry business. \"In a summary of the rule, the EPA said it would improve 'clarity and consistency' of regulation, 'provide regulatory relief, and save affected facilities over $30 million'\" by allowing industrial shop towels to be washed in water that would then go into municipal waste-water treatment systems. At the time, \"3 billion of the [towels were being used to] sop up more than 100,000 tons of hazardous solvents such as benzene, xylene, toluene and methyl ethyl ketone\" per year. Horinko \"said Farmer's campaign contributions had nothing to do with the agency's decision,\" and Farmer likewise denied he had lobbied EPA directly or contributed to the campaign for the purpose of affecting the EPA ruling. However, Farmer said in the report that he did complain about the rule to Ohio Republican Sen. George V. Voinovich and Rep. Rob Portman, a fellow Bush Pioneer and chairman of Bush's campaign in Ohio. And, \"[a]bout the same time in 2002 that Farmer was making his calls and the trade groups were contacting members of Congress, he made a major contribution. On March 19, 2002, Farmer gave $250,000 to the National Republican Congressional Committee.\" On June 1, Horinko left the agency.\n\nHorinko made a bid for the Republican nomination for the Virginia state Senate seat, 37th District, Fairfax County, Sully District, to replace then-Attorney General-Elect Ken Cuccinelli (R) in a special election. Steve Hunt, who won the nomination and whom Horinko then endorsed, ultimately lost a close race in early January, 2010, to David W. Marsden (D-Fairfax), a result which \"def[ied] recent voting trends that saw several Northern Virginia Republicans win big in November.\"\n\nHorinko is currently president of the Horinko Group, a Washington-based environmental consulting firm.\n\nHorinko has two children and lives in Chantilly, Virginia. She resumed use of her maiden name, Marianne Maccini, in 2012. She is active in the lectors ministry at St. Timothy Parish in Chantilly, serves as food coordinator for the Chantilly High School Choral Boosters, and serves as President of the Chantilly High School PTSA.\n\n"}
{"id": "58240033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58240033", "title": "Mental health of Jesus", "text": "Mental health of Jesus\n\nThe question of whether the historical Jesus was in good mental health has been explored by multiple psychologists, philosophers, historians, and writers. <br>The first to openly question Jesus' sanity was French psychologist , the chief physician of Paris and author of the book \"La Folie de Jésus\".<br> This view finds both supporters and opponents.\n\nCharles Binet-Sanglé diagnosed Jesus as suffering from \"religious paranoia\":\n\nIn short, the nature of the hallucinations of Jesus, as they are described in the orthodox Gospels, permits us to conclude that the founder of Christian religion was afflicted with religious paranoia. (vol. 2, p. 393)\n\nHis view was shared by the New York psychiatrist William Hirsch who, in 1912, published his study \"Religion and Civilization – Conclusions of a Psychiatrist\", enumerating a number of Jesus' mentally aberrant behaviours. Hirsch agreed with Binet-Sanglé in that Jesus had been afflicted with hallucinations, and pointed to his \"megalomania, which mounted ceaselessly and immeasurably\". Hirsch concluded that Jesus was \"paranoid\" – pure and simple, adding that:\n\nBut Christ offers in every respect an absolutely typical picture of a wellknown mental disease. All that we know of him corresponds so exactly to the clinical aspect of paranoia, that it is hardly conceivable how anybody at all acquainted with mental disorders, can entertain the slightest doubt as to the \ncorrectness of the diagnosis. (p. 103)\n\nJesus' mental health was also questioned by the British psychiatrists William Sargant and Raj Persaud, a number of psychologists of the psychoanalytic orientation, e.g., Georges Berguer in his study \"Quelques traits de la vie de Jésus au point de vue psychologique et psychanalytique\".\n\nThe Gospel of Mark (Mark 3:21) reports the opinion of members of Jesus' family who believe that Jesus \"is beside himself\". Some psychiatrists and writers explain that they saw Jesus as mad, insane.\n\nAnd when his friends heard [of it], they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself.\n\nWładysław Witwicki, a rationalist philosopher and psychologist, in the comments to his own translation of the Gospels of Matthew and Mark (\"\") attributed to Jesus the subjectivism, increased sense of his own power and superiority over others, egocentrism and the tendency to subjugate other people, as well as difficulties communicating with the outside world and multiple personality disorder, which made him a schizothymic or even schizophrenic type (according to the Ernst Kretschmer typology).\n\nIn 1998–2000 Pole Leszek Nowak (born 1962) from Poznań authored a study in which, based on his own history of religious delusion of mission and overvalued ideas, and information communicated in the Gospels, made an attempt at reconstructing Jesus' psyche with the view of Jesus as apocalyptic prophet, taking into account the hypothesis of \"suicide by proxy\". He does so in chapters containing, in sequence, an analysis of character traits of the \"savior of mankind\", a description of the possible course of events from the period of Jesus' public activity, a naturalistic explanation of miracles.\n\nIn 2011, a team of psychiatrists, behavioral psychologists, neurologists and neuropsychiatrists from the Harvard Medical School published a research which suggested the development of a new diagnostic category of psychiatric disorders related to religious delusion and hyperreligiosity. They compared the thought and behavior of the most important figures in the Bible (Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ and Paul) with patients affected by mental disorders related to the psychotic spectrum using different clusters of disorders and diagnostic criteria (DSM-IV-TR), and concluded that these Biblical figures \"may have had psychotic symptoms that contributed inspiration for their revelations\", such as schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, manic depression, delusional disorder, delusions of grandeur, auditory-visual hallucinations, paranoia, Geschwind syndrome and abnormal experiences associated with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The authors suggest that Jesus sought to condemn him to death (\"suicide by proxy\").\n\nThe opinions of William Hirsch, Charles Binet-Sanglé and others questioning Jesus' mental health were in turn challenged by Albert Schweitzer in his doctoral thesis entitled \"The Psychiatric Study of Jesus: Exposition and Criticism\" (\"Die psychiatrische Beurteilung Jesu: Darstellung und Kritik\", 1913) and by psychiatrist Walter Bundy in his 1922 book \"The psychic health of Jesus\".\n\nThe mental health of Jesus is defended by psychiatrists Olivier Quentin Hyder, also by Pablo Martinez and Andrew Sims in their book \"Mad or God? Jesus: The healthiest mind of all\" (2018).\n\nAlso, Christian apologists, such as Josh McDowell and Lee Strobel, take up the subject of Jesus' sanity defense.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33502802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33502802", "title": "Myrtle Bachelder", "text": "Myrtle Bachelder\n\nMyrtle Claire Bachelder (March 13, 1908 – May 22, 1997) was an American chemist and Women's Army Corps officer, who is noted for her secret work on the Manhattan Project atomic bomb program, and for the development of techniques in the chemistry of metals.\n\nMyrtle C. Bachelder was born on March 13, 1908, in Orange, Massachusetts. She earned a bachelor of science degree from Middlebury College in 1930, and became a high school science teacher and athletics coach in South Hadley Falls, Massachusetts. She received her master of education degree from Boston University.\n\nDuring World War II, Bachelder enlisted in the Women's Army Corps (WAC) in November 1942, at the Springfield, Massachusetts headquarters. After spending time in training at military bases in several U.S. states, she received orders assigning her to the Company 'D' WAC Detachment of the Manhattan District, United States Army Corps of Engineers. Her secret assignment was to lead a group of 15 to 20 women from the WAC, stationed in Des Moines, Iowa, to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and from there to Santa Fe, New Mexico. She and the women under her command arrived at Los Alamos, New Mexico on October 21, 1943.\n\n\"Manhattan\" was the code name for the special military division dedicated to developing an atomic weapon. In the clandestine laboratory at the remote Los Alamos desert site, Bachelder was responsible for the analysis of the spectroscopy of uranium isotopes. Since the uranium-235 isotope is fissile, whereas the uranium-238 isotope is not, Bachelder's role in the project was a crucial task: to ensure the purity of the sub-critical material, and therefore the nuclear explosion, of the world's first atomic bombs.\nThese methods were used during the preparation of plutonium-239, the fissile material used in the construction of the atomic bomb for the Trinity nuclear test, on July 16, 1945. Analogous methods were used for the uranium weapon, code-named \"Little Boy\", which destroyed Hiroshima, Japan on August 6, 1945, and for the plutonium bomb which destroyed Nagasaki, Japan on August 9, 1945, leading to the Japanese surrender.\nThe secret program was under the general direction of J. Robert Oppenheimer, whom Bachelder described as:\nThe conclusion of the Second World War was also the dawning of a new \"Atomic Age\", in which the peacetime potential of nuclear energy began to be explored. Bachelder was among the scientists who opposed the May-Johnson Bill of October 1945, a Congressional bill proposed by the Interim Committee, which would have maintained military control over nuclear research. The bill was defeated in Congress and superseded by the McMahon Atomic Energy Act. In January 1947, the newly formed Atomic Energy Commission approved the declassification of 270 previously secret documents. These included discoveries related to X-radiation and purification of uranium ores, which had been made by Bachelder during the course of the war effort. At this time, the rarity and importance of Bachelder's achievements as a woman in science were also acknowledged.\n\nAfter leaving the Army, Bachelder became a research chemist at the University of Chicago, where the first self-sustaining nuclear reaction had been achieved in 1942. Nobel Laureate James Franck had been Director of the Chemistry Division of the Metallurgical Laboratory during the earlier phases of the Manhattan Project. Bachelder joined the University's Institute for the Study of Metals (renamed as the James Franck Institute in 1967), and she conducted further research in metallochemistry.\n\nAmong other achievements, Bachelder developed methods for the purification of the rare elements tellurium and indium. Other aspects of her broad scientific expertise found application in the field of marine archaeology, when she determined the chemical composition of brass cannons found in the Aegean Sea on sunken ships. She also made contributions to astrochemistry, when NASA asked her to analyze the chemistry of Moon rocks which had been collected from the Moon's surface during the Apollo missions from 1969 to 1972.\n\nBachelder retired from the Franck Institute in 1973, and was subsequently active as an official of the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP). She died in Chicago on May 22, 1997.\n\nBachelder believed that her role in the development of the atomic bomb, and the subsequent use of atomic weapons against Japan, had been justified in order to end the Second World War and to avoid greater loss of life that would have been entailed in a U.S. land invasion and extended conflict with Japan. Later, during the period of the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, Bachelder stated that, although she supported nuclear arms control:\n"}
{"id": "1561393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561393", "title": "Nicolas Courtois", "text": "Nicolas Courtois\n\nNicolas Tadeusz Courtois (born 14 November 1971) is a cryptographer, a senior lecturer in computer science at University College London.\n\nCourtois was one of the co-authors of both the XSL attack against block ciphers such as the Advanced Encryption Standard and the XL system for solving systems of algebraic equations, used in the attack. Other cryptographic results of Courtois include algebraic attacks on stream ciphers, attacks on the KeeLoq and Hitag 2 systems used for remote keyless automobile entry systems, and an analysis of cryptographic weaknesses in public transit smart cards including the London Underground Oyster card and the Dutch OV-chipkaart. More recently, he has written about cryptocurrency.\n\nCourtois graduated from University of Paris VI: Pierre et Marie Curie, where he got his doctoral degree in cryptography.\n"}
{"id": "15297037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15297037", "title": "Omar bin Laden", "text": "Omar bin Laden\n\nOmar bin Osama bin Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden (, \"ʿUmar bin ʾUsāmah bin Muḥammad bin ʿAwaḍ bin Lādin\"; born 1981), better known as Omar bin Laden, is one of the sons of Osama bin Laden and his first wife and first cousin Najwa Ghanem (see Bin Laden family). He is the fourth-eldest son among 20 children of Osama bin Laden. Older reports have described Omar and his brother Abdallah bin Laden as nephews or cousins of Osama bin Laden.\n\nBin Laden was born the grandson of Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden, the founder of one of the wealthiest non-royal families in Saudi Arabia, and the son of Osama bin Laden, whose partisan activities shaped his childhood. Bin Laden accompanied his father on his exile to Sudan from 1991 to 1996, and then to Afghanistan after that. He said that he trained in al-Qaeda camps beginning at the age of 14, but after training with al-Qaeda for six years and sharing a house with al-Qaeda's second-in-command Ayman al-Zawahiri, he left al-Qaeda in 2000 because he did not want to be associated with killing civilians and his father Osama did not object.\n\nIn 2010, Omar bin Laden told ABC News that Osama had severely beaten him when he was a child for smiling too widely.\n\nBin Laden ran his own company in Jeddah prior to 2006 as a contractor and scrap metal dealer. Jeddah, a major city and important transit port for Saudi Arabia, is the site of the headquarters of the Saudi Binladen Group and has been reported to be \"truly\" ruled by Bakr bin Laden.\n\nOmar married Jane Felix-Browne, who also goes by the name Zaina Mohamed Al-Sabah, a parish councillor from Moulton, near Northwich in Cheshire in the United Kingdom, on September 15, 2006. The marriage was conducted in September 2006 in Islamic ceremonies in both Egypt and Saudi Arabia, after which the couple spent a few months together in Jeddah before Zaina returned to Britain for several weeks.\n\nIt has been reported that Felix-Browne met bin Laden while she was undergoing treatment for multiple sclerosis. They met on a horseback ride at the Giza pyramids in Egypt. She is his second wife and 24 years older than he is, with five grandchildren. She was aware when she married Omar that he had been married and divorced, with a two-year-old son.\n\nAfter their wedding, Al-Sabah described the stress of bin Laden's family background: \"Omar is wary of everyone. He is constantly watching people who he feels might be following him. Not without reason he is fearful of cameras. He is the son of Osama. But when we are together he forgets his life.\" The couple announced their divorce in September 2007, which was said to be in response to threats to their \"lives and liberty\" from two unspecified sources known to them in Saudi Arabia. At the time, Al-Sabah said she did not regard herself as divorced and that as the divorce was done under duress did not have legal standing under Sharia law. After two weeks, Zaina and Omar decided not to part.\n\nIn January 2008, bin Laden applied for a British spousal immigration visa which would have permitted him to reside indefinitely at his wife's home in Moulton, Cheshire, a process which required him to provide original documentation of his divorce from his first wife. The couple stated their desire to have a child using a surrogate mother. One report stated the visa application was denied because Omar failed to provide his father's permanent address. However, a later report by \"The Times\" of Omar's appeal stated that the visa had been denied by an entry clearance officer at the UK embassy in Cairo because Omar's entry would cause \"considerable public concern.\" The officer was quoted, \"I note that statements made during recent media interviews indicate evidence of continuing loyalty to your father, and your presence in the UK could, therefore, cause considerable public concern.\" This written statement was shown to The Associated Press by the couple's legal firm, but Britain's Home Office declined to comment to the press on an individual case. In April 2008, bin Laden and Al-Sabah said they planned to appeal the ruling, calling it \"unjust and arbitrary\", stating that Al-Sabah requires medical attention in Britain and that her appeal to live with him in Saudi Arabia could take years to process. As of April 2008, bin Laden has a house in Cairo.\n\nIn April 2010, bin Laden was denied a visa to promote his book \"\" in France and elsewhere in Europe.\nSpecifically, the countries of the Schengen zone, a block of 25 nations across Europe including Germany, France and Spain, rejected his request for a visa.\n\nIn July 2010, Felix-Browne told the media that bin Laden suffers from bipolar disorder and that he was in a Qatari mental institution after hearing voices. Felix-Browne told the media that when bin Laden returned to the UK, Felix-Browne told him she wanted a divorce. As of 2015, Omar and Zaina have been married for 9 years and are living in an undisclosed country. All previous talk of divorce was publicized under duress and threats to their lives and their families lives. However, Omar bin Laden's divorce allegations were confirmed by Qatar's Gulf News with the report that a disagreement about the adoption of a surrogate child led to the dissolution of his second marriage.\n\nIn January 2008, an Associated Press interview in Cairo featured bin Laden with cornrows and a black leather biker jacket promoting a horse race for peace across North Africa. PETA president Ingrid E. Newkirk called for the cancellation of the race in an \"urgent letter\" from the organization, predicting that the gruelling race would lead to fatalities among the horses.\n\nOmar described the race as an equine counterpart to the cancelled 2008 Paris-Dakar car rally, saying, \"I heard the rally was stopped because of al-Qaida. I don't think they are going to stop me.\" The race was canceled after the killings of four French tourists near Aleg, Mauritania on Christmas Eve 2007. Following the murders race organizers received threats directly from heavily armed and organized groups linked to al-Qaeda, which led them to cancel the race on January 4, 2008, and soon after to plan the 2009 event for South America. Police in Guinea-Bissau said that two of five men arrested for the crime on January 11, 2008, admitted their involvement with al-Qaeda.\n\nOmar said that his father felt that he was just trying to defend the Islamic world, and that his father was not a terrorist \"because history tells you he's not\". In an interview with ABC News, he said, \"My father is a very kind man. And he very sorry when he did something like 11th September.\" Osama ordered the attacks \"Because he believes if he put two buildings down, maybe some people, little will die, but millions other will (be) save(d). He believed that. ... I believe he did wrong\". In a January 21, 2008, CNN interview, he said \"I try and say to my father: 'Try to find another way to help or find your goal. This bomb, these weapons, it's not good to use them on anybody\". Regarding the September 11 attacks, he said, \"I don't think 9/11 was right personally, but it happened. I don't think ... [the war] in Vietnam was right. I don't think what's going on in Palestine is right. I don't think what's going on in Iraq is right. If we make what is right and not right, we will make a very big list.\"\n\nBin Laden stated that he had not been in contact with his father since leaving Afghanistan in 2000. He said, \"The last time I saw my father was in 2000, 2001. I was in Saudi Arabia and felt a terrible sorrow for all the victims [of the September 11 attacks]\", \"My father has a kind heart\", and \"I do not believe my father is dead, otherwise I would have known it; the world would have known it.\" When asked whether he would tell the Americans if he found out where his father was living, he said with a smile, \"Actually, I would hide him. Because he is my father.\"\n\nAccording to \"Time\", Omar has stated a desire to become an \"ambassador of peace\" between Muslims and the West. Omar said that his father offered a truce to Europe in a 2004 videotape and a conditional truce with the United States in a 2006 videotape. \"My father is asking for a truce but I don't think there is any government (that) respects him. At the same time they do not respect him, why everywhere in the world, they want to fight him? There is a contradiction.\" The truces offered in these videos of Osama bin Laden were promptly rejected at the time.\n\nAfter arriving in Rome from Switzerland amid heavy security on February 2, 2008, bin Laden said in a television interview that night \"I would very much like to meet the Pope in Saint Peter's, but I have been told that it is not easy.\"\n\nOn November 3, 2008, Spain's Interior Ministry, upon recommendation by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees denied, for \"insufficient evidence of danger or threat to [his] life\", Omar's political asylum petition, after he was refused a UK visa. Omar had 24 hours to appeal, after he made his claim at Madrid's Barajas International Airport upon a stopover on a flight from Cairo, Egypt to Casablanca, Morocco.\n\nBin Laden and his wife arrived in Doha, Qatar (where, as a Saudi citizen with a Saudi passport, he would have right of entry), on November 9, 2008, after deportation by Egypt per its denial of their entry.\n\nOmar filed another British visa petition in 2008.\n\nBin Laden and his mother Najwa bin Laden published a book authored in late October 2009, titled \"Growing Up bin Laden\". According to media coverage, the book details that \"the kids grew up in Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Afghanistan without laughter or toys, were routinely beaten, and lost their pets to painful death from poison gas experiments by their father's fighters.\" It states that Osama bin Laden tried to persuade his son to volunteer for suicide missions and exposed him to dangerous conditions visiting training camps in Afghanistan and sending him to the front lines of the Afghan civil war. The book describes the family living in Jeddah without air conditioning or refrigeration, treating asthma with honeycombs and onions, and eventually moving to stone huts in Tora Bora without electricity or running water in 1996.\n\nSubsequent correspondence with the Associated Press indicated that 25 bin Laden family members had moved to Iran, following U.S. involvement in Afghanistan.\n\nBin Laden published a complaint on May 10, 2011, that the burial at sea of his father Osama deprived the family of a proper burial. He made several other claims regarding the mission that killed his father, such as stating that no one living at the compound was armed; he also requested that the UN and other international groups investigate the killing of Osama as a criminal matter. His requests were ignored by the U.S. and no actions based on them have been taken so far.\n\n"}
{"id": "199511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199511", "title": "Paul Tibbets", "text": "Paul Tibbets\n\nPaul Warfield Tibbets Jr. (23 February 1915 – 1 November 2007) was a brigadier general in the United States Air Force. He is best known as the pilot who flew the B-29 Superfortress known as the \"Enola Gay\" (named after his mother) when it dropped Little Boy, the first of two atomic bombs used in warfare, on the Japanese city of Hiroshima.\n\nTibbets enlisted in the United States Army in 1937 and qualified as a pilot in 1938. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he flew anti-submarine patrols over the Atlantic. In February 1942, he became the commanding officer of the 340th Bombardment Squadron of the 97th Bombardment Group, which was equipped with the Boeing B-17. In July 1942, the 97th became the first heavy bombardment group to be deployed as part of the Eighth Air Force, and Tibbets became deputy group commander. He flew the lead plane in the first American daylight heavy bomber mission against Occupied Europe on 17 August 1942, and the first American raid of more than 100 bombers in Europe on 9 October 1942. Tibbets was chosen to fly Major General Mark W. Clark and Lieutenant General Dwight D. Eisenhower to Gibraltar. After flying 43 combat missions, he became the assistant for bomber operations on the staff of the Twelfth Air Force.\n\nTibbets returned to the United States in February 1943 to help with the development of the Boeing B-29 Superfortress. In September 1944, he was appointed the commander of the 509th Composite Group, which would conduct the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. After the war, he participated in the Operation Crossroads nuclear weapon tests at Bikini Atoll in mid-1946, and was involved in the development of the Boeing B-47 Stratojet in the early 1950s. He commanded the 308th Bombardment Wing and 6th Air Division in the late 1950s, and was military attaché in India from 1964 to 1966. After leaving the Air Force in 1966, he worked for Executive Jet Aviation, serving on the founding board and as its president from 1976 until his retirement in 1987.\n\nPaul Warfield Tibbets Jr. was born in Quincy, Illinois, on 23 February 1915, the son of Paul Warfield Tibbets Sr. and his wife, Enola Gay Tibbets. When he was five years old the family moved to Davenport, Iowa, and then to Iowa's capital, Des Moines, where he was raised, and where his father became a confections wholesaler. When he was eight, his family moved to Hialeah, Florida, to escape from harsh midwestern winters. As a boy he was very interested in flying. One day his mother agreed to pay one dollar to get him into an airplane at the local carnival. In 1927, when he was 12 years old, he flew in a plane piloted by barnstormer Doug Davis, dropping candy bars with tiny parachutes to the crowd of people attending the races at the Hialeah Park Race Track.\n\nIn the late 1920s, business issues forced Tibbets's family to return to Alton, Illinois, where he graduated from Western Military Academy in 1933. He then attended the University of Florida in Gainesville, and became an initiated member of the Epsilon Zeta Chapter of Sigma Nu fraternity in 1934. During that time, Tibbets took private flying lessons at Miami's Opa-locka Airport with Rusty Heard, who later became a captain at Eastern Airlines. After his undergraduate work, Tibbets had planned on becoming an abdominal surgeon. He transferred to the University of Cincinnati after his second year to complete his pre-med studies there, because the University of Florida had no medical school at the time. However, he attended for only a year and a half as he changed his mind about wanting to become a doctor. Instead, he decided to enlist in the United States Army and become a pilot in the United States Army Air Corps.\n\nBecause he went to a military school, attended some college, and had some flight experience, Tibbets qualified for the Aviation Cadet Training Program. On 25 February 1937, he enlisted in the army at Fort Thomas, Kentucky, and was sent to Randolph Field in San Antonio, Texas, for primary and basic flight instruction. During his training, he showed himself to be an above-average pilot. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant and received his pilot rating in 1938 at Kelly Field in San Antonio.\n\nAfter graduation, Tibbets was assigned to the 16th Observation Squadron, which was based at Lawson Field, Georgia, with a flight supporting the Infantry School at nearby Fort Benning. It was at Fort Benning that Tibbets met Lucy Frances Wingate, then a clerk at a department store in Columbus, Georgia. The two quietly married in a Roman Catholic seminary in Holy Trinity, Alabama on June 19, 1938. Tibbets did not inform his family or his commanding officer, and the couple arranged for the notice to be kept out of the local newspaper. They had two sons. Paul III was born in 1940, in Columbus, Georgia, and graduated from Huntingdon College and Auburn University. He was a colonel in the United States Army Reserves and worked as a hospital pharmacist. He died in West Monroe, Louisiana, in 2016. The younger son, Gene Wingate Tibbets, was born in 1944, and was at the time of his death in 2012 residing in Georgiana in Butler County in southern Alabama. \n\nWhile Tibbets was stationed at Fort Benning, he was promoted to first lieutenant and served as a personal pilot for Brigadier General George S. Patton, Jr., in 1940 and 1941. In June 1941, Tibbets transferred to the 9th Bombardment Squadron of the 3d Bombardment Group at Hunter Field, Savannah, Georgia, as the engineering officer, and flew the A-20 Havoc. While there he was promoted to captain. In December 1941, he received orders to join the 29th Bombardment Group at MacDill Field, Florida, for training on the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress. On 7 December 1941, Tibbets heard about the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor while listening to the radio during a routine flight. Due to fears that German U-Boats might enter Tampa Bay and bombard MacDill Field, the 29th Bombardment Group moved to Savannah. Tibbets remained on temporary duty with the 3d Bombardment Group, forming an anti-submarine patrol at Pope Army Airfield, North Carolina, with 21 B-18 Bolo medium bombers. The B-18s were used as an intermediate trainer, which pilots flew after basic flight training in a Cessna UC-78 and before qualifying in the B-17.\n\nIn February 1942, Tibbets reported for duty with the 29th Bombardment Group as its engineering officer. Three weeks later he was named the commanding officer of the 340th Bombardment Squadron of the 97th Bombardment Group, equipped with the B-17D. It was initially based at MacDill, and then Sarasota Army Airfield, Florida, before moving to Godfrey Army Airfield in Bangor, Maine.\n\nIn July 1942 the 97th became the first heavy bombardment group of the Eighth Air Force to be deployed to England, where it was based at RAF Polebrook. It had been hastily assembled to meet demands for an early deployment, and arrived without any training in the basics of high altitude daylight bombing. In the first weeks of August 1942, under the tutelage of Royal Air Force veterans, the group received intensive training for its first mission. The group commander, Lieutenant Colonel Cornelius W. Cousland, was replaced by Colonel Frank A. Armstrong Jr., who appointed Tibbets as his deputy.\n\nTibbets flew the lead bomber \"Butcher Shop\" for the first American daylight heavy bomber mission on 17 August 1942, a shallow penetration raid against a marshalling yard in Rouen in Occupied France, with Armstrong as his co-pilot. This was not Tibbets's regular aircraft, \"Red Gremlin\", nor his regular crew, which included bombardier Thomas Ferebee and navigator Theodore Van Kirk, who later flew with him in \"Enola Gay\". On 9 October 1942, Tibbets led the first American raid of more than 100 bombers in Europe, attacking industrial targets in the French city of Lille. Poor bombing accuracy resulted in numerous civilian casualties and less damage to the rail installations than hoped, but the mission was hailed an overall success because it reached its target against heavy and constant fighter attack. Of the 108 aircraft in the raid, 33 were shot down or had to turn back due to mechanical problems.\n\nOn that first mission, Tibbets saw in real-time that his bombs were falling on innocent civilians. At the time, he thought to himself, \"People are getting killed down there that don't have any business getting killed. Those are not soldiers.\" But then he thought back to a lesson he had learned during his time at medical school from his roommate who was a doctor. This doctor explained to him about his former classmates who failed the program and ended up in drug sales. The reason why they had failed the program was because \"they had too much sympathy for their patients\", which \"destroyed their ability to render the medical necessities\". It dawned on Tibbets that:\n\nIn the leadup to Operation Torch, the Allied invasion of North Africa, the commander of the Eighth Air Force, Major General Carl Spaatz was ordered to provide his best two pilots for a secret mission. He chose Tibbets and Major Wayne Connors. Tibbets flew Major General Mark W. Clark from Polebrook to Gibraltar while Connors flew Clark's chief of staff, Brigadier General Lyman Lemnitzer. A few weeks later Tibbets flew the Supreme Allied Commander, Lieutenant General Dwight D. Eisenhower, there. \"By reputation\", historian Stephen Ambrose wrote, Tibbets was \"the best flier in the Army Air Force.\"\n\nTibbets had flown 25 combat missions against targets in France when the 97th Bomb Group was transferred to North Africa as part of Major General Jimmy Doolittle's Twelfth Air Force. For Tibbets, the war in North Africa introduced him to the realities of aerial warfare. He claimed that he saw the real effects of bombing civilians and the trauma of losing his brothers in arms. In January 1943, Tibbets, who had now flown 43 combat missions, was assigned as the assistant for bomber operations to Colonel Lauris Norstad, Assistant Chief of Staff of Operations (A-3) of the Twelfth Air Force. Tibbets had recently been given a battlefield promotion to colonel, but did not receive it, as such promotions had to be confirmed by a panel of officers. He was told that Norstad had vetoed the promotion, saying \"there's only going to be one colonel in operations.\"\n\nTibbets did not get along well with Norstad, or with Doolittle's chief of staff, Brigadier General Hoyt Vandenberg. In one planning meeting, Norstad wanted an all-out raid on Bizerte to be flown at . Tibbets protested that flak would be most effective at that altitude. When challenged by Norstad, Tibbets said he would lead the mission himself at 6,000 feet if Norstad would fly as his co-pilot. Norstad backed down, and the mission was successfully flown at .\n\nWhen General Henry H. \"Hap\" Arnold, the Chief of United States Army Air Forces, requested an experienced bombardment pilot to help with the development of the Boeing B-29 Superfortress bomber, Doolittle recommended Tibbets. Tibbets returned to the United States in February 1943. At the time, the B-29 program was beset by a host of technical problems, and the chief test pilot, Edmund T. Allen, had been killed in a crash of the prototype aircraft.\n\nWorking with the Boeing plant in Wichita, Kansas, Tibbets test-flew the B-29 and soon accumulated more flight time in it than any other pilot. He found that without defensive armament and armor plating, the aircraft was lighter, and its performance was much improved. In simulated combat engagements against a P-47 fighter at the B-29's cruising altitude of , he discovered that the B-29 had a smaller turning radius than the P-47, and could avoid it by turning away.\n\nAfter a year of developmental testing of the B-29, Tibbets was assigned in March 1944 as director of operations of the 17th Bombardment Operational Training Wing (Very Heavy), a B-29 training unit based at Grand Island Army Air Field, Nebraska, and commanded by Armstrong. Its role was to transition pilots to the B-29. Tibbets taught two Women Airforce Service Pilots, Dora Dougherty and Dorothea (Didi) Moorman, to fly the B-29 as demonstration pilots.\n\nOn 1 September 1944, Tibbets reported to Colorado Springs Army Airfield, the headquarters of the Second Air Force, where he met with its commander, Major General Uzal Ent, and three representatives of the Manhattan Project, Lieutenant Colonel John Lansdale Jr., Captain William S. Parsons, and Norman F. Ramsey Jr., who briefed him on the project. Tibbets was told that he would be in charge of the 509th Composite Group, a fully self-contained organization of about 1,800 men, which would have 15 B-29s and a high priority for all kinds of military stores. Ent gave Tibbets a choice of three possible bases: Great Bend Army Airfield, Kansas; Mountain Home Army Airfield, Idaho; or Wendover Army Air Field, Utah. Tibbets selected Wendover for its remoteness.\n\nWhen the operation was still in its development stages, Armstrong and Colonel Roscoe C. Wilson were the leading candidates to command the group who was designated to drop the atomic bomb. Wilson was the Army Air Force project officer who provided liaison support to the Manhattan Project. Armstrong was an experienced combat veteran against German targets, but he was in his forties and had been severely injured in a fire in the summer of 1943. Wilson had no combat experience and was qualified primarily because of his engineering background and association with the project. Tibbets was considerably younger than both men and had experience in both staff and command duties in heavy bomber combat operations. He was already an experienced B-29 pilot, which made him an ideal candidate for the top-secret project.\nTibbets was promoted to colonel in January 1945 and brought his wife and family along with him to Wendover. He felt that allowing married men in the group to bring their families would improve morale, although it put a strain on his own marriage. In order to disguise all the civilian engineers on base who were working on the Manhattan Project, Tibbets was forced to lie to his wife; he told her that the engineers were \"sanitary workers.\" At one point, Tibbets found that Lucy had co-opted a scientist to unplug a drain.\n\nOn 6 March 1945 (concurrent with the activation of Project Alberta), the 1st Ordnance Squadron, Special (Aviation) was activated at Wendover, again using Army Air Forces personnel on hand or already at Los Alamos. Its purpose was to provide \"skilled machinists, welders and munitions workers\" and special equipment to the group to enable it to assemble atomic weapons at its operating base, thereby allowing the weapons to be transported more safely in their component parts. A rigorous candidate selection process was used to recruit personnel, reportedly with an 80% rejection rate. The 509th Composite Group reached full strength in May 1945.\n\nWith the addition of the 1st Ordnance Squadron to its roster in March 1945, the 509th Composite Group had an authorized strength of 225 officers and 1,542 enlisted men, almost all of whom deployed to Tinian, an island in the northern Marianas within striking distance of Japan, in May and June 1945. The 320th Troop Carrier Squadron kept its base of operations at Wendover. In addition to its authorized strength, the 509th had attached to it on Tinian all 51 civilian and military personnel of Project Alberta. Furthermore, two representatives from Washington, D.C. were present on the island: the deputy director of the Manhattan Project, Brigadier General Thomas Farrell, and Rear Admiral William R. Purnell of the Military Policy Committee.\n\nThe ground support echelon of the 509th Composite Group received movement orders and moved by rail on 26 April 1945, to its port of embarkation at Seattle, Washington. On May 6 the support elements sailed on the SS \"Cape Victory\" for the Marianas, while the group's materiel was shipped on the SS \"Emile Berliner\". An advance party of the air echelon flew by C-54 to North Field, Tinian, between May 15 and 22, where it was joined by the ground echelon on 29 May 1945. Project Alberta's \"Destination Team\" also sent most of its members to Tinian to supervise the assembly, loading, and dropping of the bombs under the administrative title of 1st Technical Services Detachment, Miscellaneous War Department Group.\nOn 5 August 1945, Tibbets formally named his B-29 \"Enola Gay\" after his mother. \"Enola Gay\" had been personally selected by him while it was still on the assembly line at the Glenn L. Martin Company plant in Bellevue, Nebraska. The regularly assigned aircraft commander, Robert A. Lewis, was unhappy to be displaced by Tibbets for this important mission, and became furious when he arrived at the aircraft on the morning of August 6 to see the aircraft he considered his painted with the now-famous nose art. Lewis would fly the mission as Tibbets's co-pilot.\n\nAt 02:45 the next day—in accordance with the terms of Operations Order No. 35—the \"Enola Gay\" departed North Field for Hiroshima, Japan, with Tibbets at the controls. Tinian was approximately away from Japan, so it took six hours to reach Hiroshima. The atomic bomb, code-named \"Little Boy\", was dropped over Hiroshima at 08:15 local time. Tibbets recalled that the city was covered with a tall mushroom cloud after the bomb was dropped.\n\nTibbets was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross by Spaatz immediately after landing on Tinian. He became a celebrity, with pictures and interviews of his wife and children in the major American newspapers. He was seen as a national hero who had ended the war with Japan. Tibbets later received an invitation from President Harry S. Truman to visit the White House. The 509th Composite Group was awarded an Air Force Outstanding Unit Award in 1999.\n\nTibbets was interviewed extensively by Mike Harden of the \"Columbus Dispatch\", and profiles appeared in the newspaper on anniversaries of the first dropping of an atomic bomb. In a 1975 interview he said: \"I'm proud that I was able to start with nothing, plan it and have it work as perfectly as it did ... I sleep clearly every night.\" \"I knew when I got the assignment,\" he told a reporter in 2005, \"it was going to be an emotional thing. We had feelings, but we had to put them in the background. We knew it was going to kill people right and left. But my one driving interest was to do the best job I could so that we could end the killing as quickly as possible.\"\n\nThe 509th Composite Group returned to the United States on 6 November 1945, and was stationed at Roswell Army Airfield, New Mexico. Colonel William H. Blanchard replaced Tibbets as group commander on 22 January 1946, and also became the first commander of the 509th Bombardment Wing, the successor to the 509th Composite Group. Tibbets was a technical advisor to the 1946 Operation Crossroads nuclear tests at Bikini Atoll in the Pacific, but he and his \"Enola Gay\" crew were not chosen to drop another atomic bomb.\n\nTibbets then attended the Air Command and Staff School at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. On graduating in 1947 he was posted to the Directorate of Requirements at Air Force Headquarters at the Pentagon. When the head of the directorate, Brigadier General Thomas S. Power, was posted to London as air attaché, he was replaced by Brigadier General Carl Brandt. Brandt appointed Tibbets as director of Directorate of Requirements's Strategic Air Division, which was responsible for drawing up requirements for future bombers. Tibbets was convinced that the bombers of the future would be jet aircraft and thus became involved in the Boeing B-47 Stratojet program. He subsequently served as B-47 project officer at Boeing in Wichita from July 1950 until February 1952. He then became commander of the Proof Test Division at Eglin Air Force Base in Valparaiso, Florida, where flight testing of the B-47 was conducted.\n\nTibbets returned to Maxwell Air Force Base, where he attended the Air War College. After he graduated in June 1955, he became Director of War Plans at the Allied Air Forces in Central Europe Headquarters at Fontainebleau, France. He left Lucy and his sons behind in Alabama, and he and Lucy divorced that year. During his posting to France, he met a French divorcee named Andrea Quattrehomme, who became his second wife. He returned to the United States in February 1956 to command the 308th Bombardment Wing at Hunter Air Force Base, Georgia, and married her in the base chapel on 4 May 1956. They had a son, James Tibbets.\n\nIn January 1958, Tibbets became commander of the 6th Air Division at MacDill Air Force Base, Florida. and was promoted to brigadier general in 1959. This was followed by another tour of duty at the Pentagon as director of Management Analysis. In July 1962, he was assigned to the Joint Chiefs of Staff as deputy director for operations, and then, in June 1963, as deputy director for the National Military Command System. In 1964, Tibbets was named military attaché in India. He spent 22 months there on this posting, which ended in June 1966. He retired from the United States Air Force (USAF) on 31 August 1966.\n\nAfter his retirement from the Air Force, Tibbets worked for Executive Jet Aviation (EJA), an air taxi company based in Columbus, Ohio, and now called NetJets. He was one of the founding board members and attempted to extend the company's operations to Europe, but was unsuccessful. He retired from the company in 1968, and returned to Miami, Florida, where he had spent part of his childhood. The banks foreclosed on EJA in 1970, and Bruce Sundlun became president. Sundlun lured Tibbets back to EJA that year. Tibbets succeeded Sundlun as president on 21 April 1976, and remained in the role until 1986. He served for a year as a consultant before his second and final retirement from EJA in 1987.\n\nBarry Nelson played Tibbets in the film \"The Beginning or the End\" (1947). \"Above and Beyond\" (1952) depicted the World War II events that involved Tibbets; Robert Taylor starred as Tibbets and Eleanor Parker played the role of his first wife Lucy. Tibbets was also the model for screenwriter Sy Bartlett's fictional character \"Major Joe Cobb\" in the film \"Twelve O'Clock High\" (1949), and for a brief period in February 1949 was slated to be the film's technical advisor until his replacement at the last minute by Colonel John H. deRussy. \"Enola Gay: The Men, the Mission, the Atomic Bomb\", a 1980 made-for-television movie, somewhat fictionalized, told the story of Tibbets crew. Patrick Duffy played Tibbets and Kim Darby played Lucy.\n\nIn other fictional portrayals, Nicholas Kilbertus was Tibbets in the film \"Day One\" (1989), David Gow played him in the TV movie \"Hiroshima\" (1995), and Ian Shaw played the part in the BBC's TV docudrama \"Hiroshima\" (2005), for which Tibbets was also interviewed on camera. An interview with Tibbets also appeared in the movie \"Atomic Cafe\" (1982), as well as was in the 1970s British documentary series \"The World at War\", and the \"Men Who Brought the Dawn\" episode of the Smithsonian Networks' \"War Stories\" (1995). Tibbets figured largely in the 2000 book \"Duty: A Father, His Son and the Man Who Won the War\" by Bob Greene of the \"Chicago Tribune\".\n\nIn 1976, the United States government apologized to Japan after Tibbets re-enacted the bombing—complete with a mushroom cloud—in a restored B-29 at an air show in Texas. He said that he had not intended for the re-enactment to insult the Japanese people. In 1995, he denounced the 50th anniversary exhibition of the \"Enola Gay\" at the Smithsonian Institution, which attempted to present the bombing in context with the destruction it caused, as a \"damn big insult\", due to its focus on the Japanese casualties rather than the brutality of the Japanese government. He was inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 1996.\n\nTibbets's grandson Paul W. Tibbets IV graduated from the United States Air Force Academy in 1989, and in April 2006 became commander of the 393d Bomb Squadron, flying the B-2 Spirit at Whiteman AFB, Missouri. The squadron was one of the two operational squadrons that had formed part of the 509th Composite Group when Tibbets commanded it. Paul Tibbets IV was promoted to brigadier general in 2014, and became Deputy Director for Nuclear Operations at the Global Operations Directorate of the United States Strategic Command at Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska. As such, he was responsible for America's strategic nuclear forces. On 5 June 2015, he assumed command of the 509th Bomb Wing.\n\nTibbets died in his Columbus, Ohio, home on 1 November 2007, at the age of 92. He had suffered small strokes and heart failure during his final years and had been in hospice care. He was survived by his French-born wife, Andrea, and two sons from his first marriage, Paul III and Gene as well as his son, James, from his second marriage. Tibbets had asked for no funeral or headstone, because he feared that opponents of the bombing might use it as a place of protest or destruction. In accordance with his wishes, his body was cremated, and his ashes were scattered over the English Channel; he had flown over the Channel many times during the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58558427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58558427", "title": "Reem Alnajem", "text": "Reem Alnajem\n\nReem Alnajem (; April 16, 1985 – ), is a Kuwaiti - Saudi TV presenter TV host and media personality.\n\nIn 2017, she joined the Alrray TV to present the daily program \"Raykum Shabab\". She also presented the daily \"Ramadan fawanes\" in Ramadan 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "43190866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43190866", "title": "Rita Gorgonowa", "text": "Rita Gorgonowa\n\nRita Gorgonowa (real name Emilia Margerita Gorgon, née Ilic) was a governess, and main character of one of the most infamous crime stories of the Second Polish Republic. Born on 7 March 1901 in Knin, Dalmatia, Austria-Hungary, she was found guilty of murder of Elzbieta Zaremba, daughter of Henryk Zaremba, an architect from Lwow. The murder, which took place on 30 December 1931, and the subsequent trial, were regarded as the biggest crime story of Poland at that time. Gorgonowa, who had a son and two daughters, died in unknown circumstances: her post-1939 fate has not been established.\n\nEmilia Margerita Ilic was either of Serbian or Croatian origin. Her father was a physician, who died when she was three. Her mother later remarried.\n\nAt the age of 15, Margerita married a Colonel of the Austro-Hungarian Army, Erwin Gorgon. Probably in 1918 she gave birth to a son and settled in Lwow with her husband's family. In 1921, Erwin Gorgon left Poland and, in search of work, emigrated to the United States. Soon afterwards, Rita was forced by her in-laws to leave their house, as they had wrongly accused her of immoral behaviour. Gorgonowa, who was regarded as a very attractive woman, left her son with the in-laws and supported herself by working as a governess.\n\nIn 1924, Gorgonowa became a governess at the house of the 41-year-old architect Henryk Zaremba. She lived at his villa in Brzuchowice, located 7 kilometers from Lwow. Prior to employing Gorgonowa, Zaremba had separated from his wife, who had been confined to an asylum as she suffered from mental problems. Zaremba and his ex-wife had two children: a daughter, Elzbieta (Lusia), born in 1914 and a son, Stanislaw, born 1917.\n\nIn addition to her governess duties, Gorgonowa ran the house. After about a year, Gorgonowa and Zaremba began an affair which eventually let to daughter Romana's birth in 1928. Gorgonowa later claimed that she was hoping to marry the wealthy architect. Meanwhile, the close relationship between her father and her governess was noticed by teenage Lusia, who often argued about this with her father.\n\nIn the night of 30–31 December 1931, Elzbieta (Lusia), who was sleeping in her bed, was hit in the head by a blunt object, probably an ice pick, and died on the spot. The murder was discovered by Stanislaw Zaremba, who was awakened by a dog, and alarmed residents of the house. Doctor Ludwik Csala was called for, together with a police officer, who scanned the room.\n\nSince circumstantial evidence pointed at Gorgonowa, she was immediately arrested. Also, Henryk Zaremba, suspected of cooperation with murderers, was locked for six weeks. Furthermore, police detectives interviewed a gardener and a teenage boy from Brzuchowice, who was secretly in love with Lusia.\n\nDuring the interrogation, Gorgonowa maintained her innocence. Police specialists came to the conclusion, that the murder had been carried out by a resident of the house, as there were no footsteps on the windowsill and in the snow around the building. Furthermore, no traces of a break-in were found, and family dog Lux did not bark that night. According to official police report, Gorgonowa crossed the corridor from her room to Lusia's room, killing the girl. She then opened the window, and penetrated her victim's vagina with a finger, trying to make it appear as a rape. Upon leaving Lusia's room, Gorgonowa noticed Lux the dog, whom she hit in the head. The canine wailed, waking Stas Zaremba, who was sleeping in the dining room. The boy entered the corridor, noticing a person dressed in a sheepskin, standing next to a Christmas tree. Stas later claimed that it was Rita.\n\nUnable to get back to her bedroom, Gorgonowa ran out through front door. While entering her bedroom, she broke a small window, cutting her finger. She then changed her nightdress and joined other residents of the house, who had been alarmed by Stas. On 31 December Gorgonowa threw the ice pick into a pool, losing a candle. Later on, a bloodstained handkerchief was found, also traces of blood were found on Rita's sheepskin. The blood on the handkerchief and the sheepskin was type A, while Gorgonowa's blood was type 0. Nevertheless, findings of police experts were undermined by famous scientist from Lwow, Ludwik Hirszfeld.\n\nOn 14 May 1932, after a short trial, District Court at Lwow sentenced Rita Gorgonowa to death. Due to a number of legal mistakes and appeals of her defence (Mieczyslaw Ettinger of Warszawa, Jozef Wozniakowski of Kraków and Maurycy Axer of Lwow), the verdict was later changed by the Supreme Court. While in prison, Margerita gave birth to daughter Ewa, on 20 September 1932. In the meantime her case was moved to the District Court in Kraków, which on 29 April 1933 sentenced Rita to eight years. Gorgonowa was to be released on 24 May 1940 but due to the German Invasion of Poland she was released on 3 September 1939.\n\nFurther fate of Rita Gorgonowa is unknown. Her daughters claim that she survived World War II. According to some sources, she moved to Silesia or ran a newsstand in Opole. Other sources claim that she left Poland and settled in South America.\n\nIn 1977, a feature film \"The Case of Gorgonowa\" was made by director Janusz Majewski, with Ewa Dalkowska playing the role of Rita. In 2014 Rita's daughter Ewa and daughter in-law Margarita Ilic-Lisowska declared their intention to re-open the trial and change of the verdict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53144073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53144073", "title": "Seyyed Hashem Bahrani", "text": "Seyyed Hashem Bahrani\n\nSeyyed Hashem Bahrani (), was born between years 1620 to 1630. His father is Soleyman ibn Esmaeel Bahrani Tubeli Katkatani (Tubel is one of the Bahrain cities and Katkatan is a village of it) and their ancestry reach to Musa ibn Ja'far (seventh Shia imam).\n\n\nHis authority was beyond the scope of Bahrain and Shia peoples in more countries imitated her. He was one of righteous that strict on the governors and rulers.\n\n\nHaj Seyed Hashem Allameh Mehri is a descendant of Allameh Bahrani.\n\n"}
{"id": "394990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=394990", "title": "Shukri Ghanem", "text": "Shukri Ghanem\n\nShukri Mohammed Ghanem ( October 1942 – 29 April 2012) was a Libyan politician who was the General Secretary of the General People's Committee of Libya (prime minister) from June 2003 until March 2006 when, in the first major government re-shuffle in over a decade, he was replaced by his deputy, Baghdadi Mahmudi. Ghanem subsequently served as the Minister of Oil until 2011. On 29 April 2012, his body was found floating on the New Danube, Vienna.\n\nEarly in the Libyan Civil War he reportedly \"fled\", but after the city of Ra's Lanuf was recaptured by pro-government forces, AP reported on 13 March that he asked Eni SpA for help with putting out a fire at the Ra's Lanuf Refinery. On 16 May, Al Arabiya and the NTC reported that Shukri Ghanem defected to Tunisia. The next day Tunisian security officials confirmed he had indeed defected into Tunisia.\n\nGhanem was born in Tripoli on 9 October 1942. He studied economics at Garyounis University in Benghazi and graduated in 1963. He also held PhD in international economics from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and Harvard University in 1975.\n\nGhanem was previously in charge of the OPEC secretariat, and was the Director of its Research Division. He served as Deputy Director and Director of Foreign Trade at the Ministry of Economy in Libya; was Director of Marketing of Libya's National Oil Corporation (NOC); was Director of Economic Affairs and Under Secretary and Chief Advisor at the Ministry of Petroleum in Libya. In 2003, Ghanem was appointed General Secretary of the General People's Committee or Prime Minister. In March 2006, Ghanem was appointed Chairman of Libya's NOC. He tendered his resignation from NOC in August 2009 amidst probable disagreements within the Libyan government over the development of the oil sector.\n\nAfter defection to Vienna in 2011, he served as a consultant for a Vienna-based company until his death.\n\nLibya had been diplomatically isolated and subject to international sanctions since the November 1991 indictment of two Libyans for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 on 21 December 1988 (the Lockerbie bombing). Following Ghanem's appointment as prime minister, Libya successfully sought re-entry into the international community and the lifting of sanctions. Ghanem was seen as the main spokesman and architect of this rapprochement, which included paying $2.16 billion compensation in August 2003 to the families of the 270 people who died in the bombing, and renouncing weapons of mass destruction.\n\nIn February 2004, Ghanem was interviewed on the BBC Radio 4 \"Today\" program. He stirred controversy in the interview by repudiating Libya's responsibility both for the 1988 Lockerbie bombing and the 1984 murder of British WPC Yvonne Fletcher (who was shot and killed in April 1984 outside the Libyan Embassy in London). This incident led to the severing of UK/Libya diplomatic relations.\n\nAfter the problems we [Libya] have been facing because of the sanctions, the loss of money, we thought that it was easier for us to buy peace and this is why we agreed a compensation,\" Ghanem said in the interview.\n\nWhen asked whether the payment of compensation meant that Libya did not accept any guilt or responsibility, Ghanem replied:\n\nI agree with that, and this is why I say we bought peace.\n\nUnder pressure from the United States and Britain, Ghanem's comments were quickly retracted by Gaddafi.\n\nIt is unclear whether Shukri Ghanem's dismissal as prime minister in 2006 was a consequence of those controversial remarks he made two years earlier.\n\nOn 16 May 2011, it was reported that Ghanem has defected from the Gaddafi government and fled, which was confirmed the next day by Tunisian security officials. On 8 April 2011, against the background of the Libyan Civil War, the US Treasury department announced sanctions against him. In May 2011, he defected to Rome and then, Vienna. On 1 June 2011, Ghanem confirmed in Rome, that he had decided to join the Libyan opposition.\n\nHe was mistrusted by the new Libyan government due to his close friendship with the Gaddafi family, and particularly Saif al-Islam Gaddafi. Prior to his death, the interim Libyan government was preparing an Interpol arrest warrant against him, to investigate his mismanagement of oil production. At the same time, he was also wanted as a witness in the trial against Saif al-Islam Gaddafi.\n\nGhanem was married and had three daughters and one son.\n\nGhanem then lived with his family in Vienna, Austria, where he had an apartment and where his daughters also lived. Prior to his death, Ghanem had expressed concerns about the latest developments in Libya. \nGhanem's body was found fully clothed floating at 5 AM instead of the reported 08:40 CEST on 29 April 2012 in a branch of the River Danube though there were no signs of violence. He was 69. An Austrian foreign ministry official said the family initially told the ministry that Ghanem had died of a heart attack, which was later denied by police. A BBC report noted the cause of death was not clear and that police had ordered a post-mortem. Toxicology tests were still being undertaken after Ghanem's body had been released for burial. His body, in a coffin wrapped in a white flag, was returned to Tripoli and buried there at the beginning of May 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7877661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7877661", "title": "Terry Hoage", "text": "Terry Hoage\n\nTerrell Lee \"Terry\" Hoage (born April 11, 1962) is a former American college and professional football player who was a safety in the National Football League (NFL) for thirteen seasons during the 1980s and 1990s. Hoage played college football for the University of Georgia, and was recognized as an All-American. He played professionally for the New Orleans Saints, Philadelphia Eagles, Washington Redskins, San Francisco 49ers, Houston Oilers and Arizona Cardinals of the NFL.\n\nHoage was born in Ames, Iowa. He moved to Huntsville, Texas in 1968 and attended elementary, intermediate and high school in Huntsville. In junior high and high school he played Football, Basketball and ran track for five years and was a starter in football from his sophomore year through senior playing both ways, as quarterback and free safety. He was recognized on All Trinity Valley and All District for all three years. His academic standing was in the top five percent and took college prep courses all four years in high school. Although he was college material, only Georgia offered him football scholarship where became a starter in his sophomore year. Huntsville Independent School District 1976–1980.\n\nHoage attended the University of Georgia, where he played for coach Vince Dooley's Georgia Bulldogs football team from 1980 to 1983. As a junior and again as a senior, was a recognized as a consensus first All-American. Coach Dooley called Hoage \"the best defensive player I've ever coached and maybe the best one I've ever seen.\" He finished fifth in the voting for the Heisman Trophy in 1983. He graduated from Georgia in 1985 with a bachelor's degree in genetics with a 3.85 grade point average. Terry's college roommate, Mike Hubbard, became the first Republican Speaker of the Alabama House of Representatives in 136 years.\n\nHoage was selected by the New Orleans Saints in the third round (sixty-eight pick overall) of the 1984 NFL Draft. His NFL career spanned 13 seasons and six teams: the New Orleans Saints, Philadelphia Eagles, Washington Redskins, Houston Oilers, San Francisco 49ers and Arizona Cardinals. His professional football career ended in 1996. Hoage scored his only NFL touchdown in the first game of the 1988 season when he rushed for a 38-yard touchdown against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.\n\nAfter retiring from football, Hoage interned at Merrill Lynch, passed the Series 7 exam, and seemed on his way to a career in finance. However, as he would recall in a 2012 interview, \"I absolutely hated it. The coat and tie. Going to the office. It didn't fit my personality at all.\" He and his wife Jennifer, along with their two children, then moved to Phoenix, where he started a construction company, but were still not satisfied with their family life. They then moved to Templeton, California, a small Central Coast town. He had one further opportunity to become involved in the game, but turned down Jeff Fisher's offer of a coaching position with the Tennessee Titans. Hoage then began farming a small piece of land in the area.\n\nIn 2002, the Hoages discovered a vineyard in Paso Robles, California that had just come on the market. Terry called in Justin Smith, a friend and winemaker who would go on to produce a wine named by \"Wine Spectator\" as Wine of the Year, to evaluate the land. Yahoo! Sports writer Adam Watson said that Hoage's involvement with Smith was \"the equivalent of shopping for a computer with a young Bill Gates.\" When Smith indicated that the property had world-class potential, the Hoages bought the property, moved onto it, and enlisted Smith to help them get started in the business. The association with Smith gave the Hoages credibility as they started their business, and they took over the winemaking in 2004.\n\nThey were named among the Top New California Wine Producers in 2008 by \"Wine Spectator\". The vineyard is operated as Terry Hoage Vineyards and produces Rhone varietal wines. Hoage produces roughly 2,000 cases a year. The vineyard's first wine was The Hedge a Syrah. The \"Hedge\" refers both to a pruning technique and the fabled Hedges of the University of Georgia's Sanford Stadium. Hoage dedicated his first vintage of The Hedge to his former coach, Vince Dooley. Hoage's later wines have been marketed with names of a similar concept, playing off both his football and winemaking careers. \"46\" refers to the 46 defense created by Buddy Ryan, for whom Hoage played eight seasons, and Highway 46, that runs into Paso Robles. \"Skins\" refers both to the Redskins and grape skins. \"5 Blocks\" comes from Hoage's five blocked field goals at Georgia, plus the specific area of grapes used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43999103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43999103", "title": "William Fernandez", "text": "William Fernandez\n\nWilliam Fernandez was a Luso-African in the Pongo River area of Guinea in the early nineteenth century.\n\nIn the 1750s William Settel Fernandez married the daughtrer of a Baga leader.\n"}
{"id": "25996233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25996233", "title": "Wu Lei (footballer)", "text": "Wu Lei (footballer)\n\nWu Lei (; born 19 November 1991) is a Chinese footballer who currently plays for Shanghai SIPG in the Chinese Super League. He is currently the all-time top goalscorer for the club with 169 goals and has also made the most appearances for the club. He currently holds the record for being the youngest person to have played in a professional Chinese football match aged just 14 years and 287 days.\n\nWu Lei started his football career playing for third-tier side Shanghai SIPG, making his debut for the club on 2 September 2006 in a 5–3 loss against Yunnan Lijiang Dongba, making him the youngest ever player to play professional Chinese football aged 14 years and 287 days. He helped the club win the third tier title and promotion to the second tier at the end of the 2007 league season. He scored his first goal for the club on 30 August 2008 in a 2–0 win against Qingdao Hailifeng. This made him the second youngest goalscorer in Chinese football aged 16 years and 289 days, just 47 days behind Cao Yunding's record.\n\nWu scored a hat trick on 2 June 2013 in a 6–1 win against Shanghai Shenxin, becoming the second youngest player to score a hat-trick in the top tier. He scored his second hat-trick of the season on 18 August 2013 in a 3–2 win against Tianjin Teda. He scored his third hat trick of the season on 27 September 2013 in a 6–1 win against Qingdao Jonoon. On 31 July 2016, Wu became the first Chinese footballer in over two years to score a hat-trick in the Chinese Super League in a 3–3 draw against Guangzhou R&F.\n\nWu was called up to the Chinese under-20 national team in 2009 and scored nine goals in five matches during the 2010 AFC U-19 Championshipqualification matches. His impressive goalscoring performances saw him called up to the Chinese national team for the 2010 East Asian Football Championship, making his debut on 14 February 2010 in a 2–0 win against Hong Kong. Several months later, Wu returned to the under-20 national team for the 2010 AFC U-19 Championship and he played in four games and score two goals while he aided China to the quarterfinals by the end of the tournament. He scored his first goal for China on 28 July 2013 in a 4–3 win against Australia at the 2013 EAFF East Asian Cup.\n\nShanghai SIPG\n\nChina PR national football team\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9269783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9269783", "title": "Ziya Bazhayev", "text": "Ziya Bazhayev\n\nZiya Bazhayev (July 11, 1960 - March 9, 2000) was a prominent Russian businessman of Chechen origin specializing in oil trading. He died in Moscow during a crash of a Yakovlev Yak-40 aircraft shortly after take off on March 9, 2000, together with a Russian journalist, Artyom Borovik.\n\nBazhayev's death is mentioned in many Nigerian 419 scam e-mails.\n"}
