{"id": "21989462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21989462", "title": "1899 Coeur d'Alene labor confrontation", "text": "1899 Coeur d'Alene labor confrontation\n\nThe Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, labor confrontation of 1899 was the second of two major labor-management confrontations in the Coeur d'Alene mining district of northern Idaho in the 1890s. Like the first incident, the Coeur d'Alene, Idaho labor strike of 1892, the 1899 confrontation was an attempt by union miners, led by the Western Federation of Miners to unionize non-union mines, and have them pay the higher union wage scale. As with the 1892 strike, the 1899 incident culminated in a dynamite attack that destroyed a non-union mining facility, followed by military occupation of the district. \n\nThe confrontation of 1899 resulted from the miners' frustrations with mine operators that paid lower wages, hired Pinkerton or Thiel operatives to infiltrate the union; and routinely fired any miner who held a union card.\n\nAngered by wage cuts, Coeur d'Alene area miners conducted a strike in 1892. The strike erupted in violence when union miners discovered they had been infiltrated by a Pinkerton agent who had routinely provided union information to the mine owners. After several deaths, the U.S. army occupied the area and forced an end to the strike. The response to that violence, disastrous for the local miners' union, became the primary motivation for the formation of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM) the following year.\n\nPro-union sentiment remained strong in the area, and by 1894, most of the mines were unionized, represented by the Knights of Labor.\n\nViolence erupted in the Coeur d'Alene district during the national Pullman railroad strike of 1894. Union members attacked non-union mines and workers. Forty masked men shot to death John Kneebone, who had testified against union miners in 1892. Others kidnapped a mine superintendent, and tried to blow up the powder house at the Bunker Hill mine.\n\nUrged by the mine owners, the Idaho governor requested federal troops, supposedly to prevent interruptions in railroad service along the Northern Pacific route through the Coeur d'Alene area. US President Cleveland sent about 700 troops in July 1894. Major General John Schofield, determined to avoid embroiling his troops in a local labor dispute as they were in 1892, directed that the Army confine its mission to keeping the railroads running, and not take orders from state or local officials. The Army patrolled the railroad lines, and reported no disturbances or local opposition. The union members, wanting to avoid another military occupation, stopped the attacks on non-union targets.\n\nThe Army repeatedly reported that there were no disturbances of rail transport, and requested permission to withdraw the troops. The mine owners pressured the Cleveland administration to keep the troops in place. The mine owners eventually realized that the Army would not expand its mission beyond protecting the railroad, and dropped their opposition to withdrawal of the troops. The Army units left the Coeur d'Alene in September 1894.\n\nIn December 1894, the Bunker Hill and Sullivan mine shut down rather than agree to the union demand of a uniform wage of $3.50 per day. The mine reopened in June 1895, with nonunion labor paying $3.00 per day to miners and $2.50 to surface employees and unskilled underground labor. The company said that whenever the combined prices of lead and silver rose again to a certain point, they would restore the old wage rate. \n\nThe Bunker Hill Mining Company at Wardner, Idaho, was profitable, having paid more than $600,000 in dividends. Miners working in the Bunker Hill and Sullivan mines were receiving fifty cents to a dollar less per day than other miners, which at that time represented a significant percentage of the paycheck. The properties were the only mines in the district that were not unionized, and the Bunker Hill company had employed Pinkerton labor spies to identify union members.\n\nIn April 1899, as the union was launching an organizing drive of the few locations not yet unionized, superintendent Albert Burch declared that the company would rather \"shut down and remain closed twenty years\" than to recognize the union. He then fired seventeen workers that he believed to be union members and demanded that all other union men collect their back pay and quit.\n\nThe strike by the union local at Wardner was not succeeding, and the nearby WFM locals, at Gem, Burke, and Mullan, feared that the other mine owners would cut wages to match those paid at the Bunker Hill mine. The other WFM locals agreed to support the strike at Wardner. The officers of the WFM locals met and planned a massive show of force for April 29. \n\nOn April 29, 250 union members seized a train in Burke. The engineer, Levi \"Al\" Hutton, later claimed at gun point. At each stop through Burke-Canyon, more miners climbed aboard. In Mace, a hundred men climbed aboard. At Frisco, the train stopped to load eighty wooden boxes, each containing fifty pounds of dynamite. At Gem, 150 to 200 more miners climbed onto three freight cars which had been added to the train. In Wallace, 200 miners were waiting, having walked seven miles from Mullan. About a thousand men rode the train to Wardner, the site of a $250,000 mill of the Bunker Hill mine. Witnesses later testified that the majority of those on the train knew nothing of any planned violence when they started out; they thought that it would be just a massive demonstration to intimidate the mine owners into recognizing the union. However, the union had distributed masks and firearms to between 100 and 200 of the men, who acted as if under military discipline. The pro-union \"Idaho State Tribune\" in Wallace wrote: \n\nCounty sheriff James D. Young, who had been elected with union support, had ridden to Wardner on the train with the union miners. At Wardner, Young climbed atop a rail car, and ordered the group to disperse. His order was ignored, and he later said that any further attempt to restrain the miners would have been suicidal. \n\nWord had reached Wardner by telephone that the union miners were on their way, and most of the mine and mill workers had fled. The crowd ordered the remaining workers out of the Bunker Hill mine and mill. Once out, they were ordered to run, and some shots fired at them as they ran. James Cheyne was shot in the hip, then union miners shot more bullets into him as he lay on the ground; he died shortly after. One union man, John Smith, also called Schmidt, was mistakenly shot to death by other union men.\n\nAfter carrying three thousand pounds of dynamite into the mill. The blast completely destroyed the mill. The crowd also burned down the company office, the boarding house, and the home of the mine manager. The miners re-boarded the \"Dynamite Express\" and returned the way they came. Working men gathered along the track, and according to the pro-union \"Idaho State Tribune,\" \"cheered the [union] men lustily as they passed.\".\"\n\nAt the Idaho governor's request, President William McKinley sent in the Army. The majority of army troops sent to the Coeur d'Alene were African American soldiers of the 24th Infantry Regiment, stationed in Spokane, Salt Lake City, and other western posts. The 24th had distinguished itself in combat during the Spanish–American War, and was seen as one of the most disciplined Army units not then serving overseas. But the miners were indignant about having to take orders from soldiers, and particularly offended at being ordered around by African Americans. WFM Secretary-Treasurer Bill Haywood later played on the resentment when he wrote that while white miners were held in the bullpen: \"the black soldiers were at home insulting, outraging, ravishing their wives, mothers, sisters and sweethearts\"\n\nState authorities used the troops to round up 1,000 men and put them into \"the bullpen.\" The arrests were indiscriminate; Governor Steunenberg's representative, state auditor Bartlett Sinclair believed that all the people of Canyon Creek had a \"criminal history,\" and \"the entire community, or the male portion of it, ought to be arrested.\" The soldiers searched every house, breaking down the door if no one answered.\n\nMass arrests began on May 4, 1899, when 128 were arrested. More than 200 were arrested the following day, and the arrests continued until about a thousand men had been arrested.\nAs Sinclair had ordered, they arrested every male: miners, bartenders, a doctor, a preacher, even the postmaster and school superintendent. … Cooks and waiters [were] arrested in kitchens, diners at their supper tables. … For desperate criminals, the men of Burke went quietly, the only gunshot was aimed at a \"vicious watch dog.\"\nWhat was called \"the bullpen\" was actually a number of structures. The first 150 prisoners were kept in an old barn, a two-story frame structure 120 feet long by 40 feet wide and filled with hay. It was \"still very cold in those altitudes\" and the men, having been arrested with no opportunity to bring along blankets, \"suffered some from the weather.\" As the barn became overcrowded, new prisoners were put in railroad boxcars. When both these became overcrowded, the prisoners were then forced to build a pine board prison for themselves, and it was surrounded by a six-foot barbed wire fence patrolled by armed soldiers. Conditions remained primitive, and three prisoners died.\n\nThe U.S. Army followed escaping miners into Montana and arrested them, returning them to Idaho, and failed to comply with jurisdictional or extradition laws. One man arrested and transported was a Montana citizen who had no connection to the Wardner events.\n\nTwo of the three county commissioners had been caught in the roundup, as had the local sheriff. These, too, were held prisoner. Later, a district court removed all of the county commissioners and the sheriff from office, charging that they'd neglected their official duties.\n\nMost of those arrested were freed within two weeks. By May 12, 450 prisoners remained; by May 30, the number was 194. Releases slowed, and 65 remained incarcerated on October 10, 1899. The last prisoners in the bullpen were not released until early December 1899.\n\nArrangements with replacement officials installed by Sinclair demonstrated \"a pattern.\"\nThe new regime's principal [sic] patronage—the fat contract for supplying food and drink to the bullpen's prisoners—had gone to Tony Tubbs, the former manager of Bunker Hill's boardinghouse, destroyed on April 29. Likewise, most of the thirty men Sinclair hired as special \"state deputies\" were either employees and former employees of the Bunker Hill Company or contractors for it. Among the most prominent was a saloonkeeper named W.C. \"Convict\" Murphy, who'd served time for horse stealing and cattle rustling. When Convict Murphy broke down people's doors, he was sometimes asked for a search warrant or other authority, at which he would draw a pair of six-shooters and say, \"These are my warrants.\"\nEmma F. Langdon, a union sympathizer, charged in a 1908 book that Idaho Governor Frank Steunenberg, who had been \"considered a poor man,\" deposited $35,000 into his bank account within a week after troops arrived in the Coeur d'Alene district, implying that there may have been a bribe from the mine operators. Subsequent research appears to have uncovered the apparent source of this assertion. J. Anthony Lukas recorded in his book \"Big Trouble\",\nIn 1899, when the state needed money for the Coeur d'Alene prosecutions, the Mine Owners' Association had come up with $32,000—about a third of it from Bunker Hill and Sullivan—handing $25,000 over to Governor Steunenberg for use at his discretion in the prosecution. Some of this money went to pay [attorneys].\nIn his autobiography, WFM Secretary-Treasurer Bill Haywood described Idaho miners held for \"months of imprisonment in the 'bull-pen'—a structure unfit to house cattle—enclosed in a high barbed-wire fence.\" Haywood concluded that the companies and their supporters in government—intent upon forcing wage cuts and employers' freedom to fire union miners—were conducting class warfare against the working class. Peter Carlson wrote in his book \"Roughneck\",\nHaywood traveled to the town of Mullan, where he met a man who had escaped from the 'bullpen'. The makeshift prison was an old grain warehouse that reeked of excrement and crawled with vermin.\nThirty-four-year-old Paul Corcoran, the father of three and \"a highly respected member of the Burke community,\" was financial secretary of the Burke Miners Union. The state decided to make an example of him. No one could say he'd even been in the vicinity of the crime, but some had seen him riding on the roof of a boxcar of the Dynamite Express. The prosecution, whose salaries were paid by a $32,000 grant from the mine owners, argued that Corcoran should take the blame for planning the attack on the Bunker Hill mill. Corcoran was sentenced to seventeen years at hard labor. Eight more miners accused of leading the attack were scheduled for trial on charges of murder and/or arson, but bribed an army sergeant to allow them to escape. Hundreds more remained in the makeshift prison without charges.\n\nMeanwhile, Sinclair developed a permit system which would prevent mines from hiring any miner who belonged to a union. The plan was designed to destroy the unions in the Coeur d'Alene district. General Henry C. Merriam of the U.S. Army endorsed the permit system verbally and in writing, resulting in considerable consternation at the McKinley White House.\n\nThe editor of one local newspaper, Wilbur H. Stewart of the \"Mullan Mirror\", dared to criticize the bullpen and its keepers. Sinclair appeared at his door alongside a major and several soldiers with unsheathed bayonets. Sinclair declared,\nI find that you have been publishing a seditious newspaper, inciting riot and insurrection, and we have concluded that publication of your paper must cease.\nStewart was taken to the bullpen, where he was assigned to garbage and latrine duty. However, the paper did not stop publication; Stewart's young wife, Maggie, continued to publish the weekly. Sinclair impounded her type, and she contracted with another sympathetic publisher to continue the news. Eventually Stewart was released under instructions to end the criticism. He sold the newspaper instead.\n\nMany populist elected officials in Shoshone County were rounded up for their support of the miners. The town sheriff of Mullan, Idaho was arrested and sent to the bullpen.\n\nMay Arkwright Hutton, whose husband was the engineer on the dynamite express, wrote a book, \"The coeur d' alenes: or, A Tale of the Modern Inquisition in Idaho\", about the treatment of the miners, and her husband, at the hands of the mine owners and the sheriff.\n\nBoth Huttons and Ed Boyce, head of the Western Federation of Miners, had invested in the Hercules silver mine before the 1899 war. After they had become wealthy mine owners, May Hutton sought to buy back all copies of her book. Ed Boyce quit the miners union to manage a hotel in Portland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37303091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37303091", "title": "Abdul Karim Khan (Yarkand)", "text": "Abdul Karim Khan (Yarkand)\n\nAbdul Karim Khan was the ruler of Yarkand Khanate in what is now north-west China (Xinjiang) between 1560 and 1591. He was second son of Abdurashid Khan. During his reign, he lost control over a number of oases and merely acted as the titular figurehead ruler.\n\nAbdul Karim Khan was a descendant of the first Moghul Khan Tughlugh Timur (1347-1363). He came to power in 1560. He became the Khan as the eldest son in the family after the death of his father Abdurashid Khan. \n\nAbdul Karim Khan distributed between his brothers all the troops and gold that he inherited from his father and increased troop numbers following the failed attempt by the Barlas emirs to replace him with his brother Sufi Sultan, who ruled in Kashgar. He expelled the hakim of Yarkand, Mahmud Barlas, and the emir of Khotan, Ahmad Barlas, and dispersed their 3,000 troops. He sent his brother Abduraim Sultan to rule Chalish and Turpan, where the position of \"Little Khan\" (contrary to the \"Great Khan\" who ruled from Yarkand) was vacant after the death of Shah Khan, son of Mansur Khan, in 1570 in a battle with the Kalmaks. \n\nAbdul Karim Khan's reign was generally tranquil thanks to the absence of wars and famine. Contemporary Balkh historian Mahmud ibn Vali wrote in 1644 in his work \" Bahr al-asrar \" that:\" Peace and tranquillity and public security of the people of Uyghurstan was so widespread during the rule of Abdul Karim Khan that it caused envy among neighbouring countries. \" \n\nDuring Abdul Karim Khan's reign, Khoja Ishak Wali, 4th son of Nakshbandi sheikh Mahdum-i- Azam and founder of Sufi Order,\" Ishakiyya\", disciples of which were later known as \"Karataghliks\" or \"Black Mountaineers\", came to Yarkand at the Khan's invitation. He was unable to attract Abdul Karim Khan to his sect, but was allowed to carry out his missionary work among the population of the Yarkand Khanate during which time 40,000 became his disciples with 164 becoming teachers of his sect. Khoja Ishak Wali managed to attract to his sect a younger brother of Abdul Karim Khan, Muhammad Sultan, who became Khan in 1591. Khoja Ishak Wali died in 1599. \n\nAbdul Karim Khan died in 1591 and was succeeded by his brother Muhammad Sultan.\n\n"}
{"id": "26944827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26944827", "title": "Aftermath (2010 TV series)", "text": "Aftermath (2010 TV series)\n\nAftermath is a four-part 2010 documentary television series created by History Television Canadian station, airing in the United States on the National Geographic Channel, and produced by Cream Productions.\n\n\"Aftermath\" consists of a series of \"experiments\" looking at what would happen if planetary conditions changed drastically, within our lifetime. The series is a follow-up to the TV special \"\".\n\nIn 2010, the series was nominated for a 2010 Gemini award for best documentary.\n\nPopulation Zero\nThe special that started it all documents what happens if all humans suddenly disappeared from the planet. The History Television title for this show is \"The World After Humans\" and the National Geographic Channel title for it is \"Population Zero\".\n\nOur world is seriously dependent on oil, but humans are using it up so quickly to the point that it may eventually run out one day, and the Earth will not have enough time to replenish it. It will happen within a timescale between twenty years to a century, but what if all the oil ran out today?\n\nIn the first few minutes, approximately of under-ground oil vanishes. Alarms in oil rigs sound as pipe pressure plummets. One day after oil, asphalt, diesel, petrol, and tar supplies become limited. This causes $US2 trillion of stock to become worthless. Oil-workers are sacked.\n\nConsumers rush to petrol stations to fill their cars up for the last time. Oil tankers are called back to their countries of origin to save national reserves of oil. Every mode of international transport is now grounded. However, steel, food, medical supplies, and trash are not being moved.\n\nPower-stations start running out of diesel. Power cuts start spreading across the world. Five days after oil, martial law is declared to stop rioting and looting. Unemployment rises to 30%. Farm animals die due to lack of food. Coal power stations face shortages of coal. Thirty days after oil, passenger trains are running on oil rations and the roads are empty of cars. Governments decide to start a program of biofuel planting.\n\nFive months after oil, Chrysler, General Motors, and Ford are taken over by the American government. Famine and drug-resistant infections threatens death and migration as food shipments come every second day. Emergency vehicles are still getting oil rations. This inspires citizens to work with chemicals to get biofuel. Governments start to wonder if they should plant crops for food or fuel. They later abandon biofuel planting altogether.\n\nOne year after oil, emergency vehicles start to be run either by lithium battery or biofuel. The price of lithium then shoots up. Populations of wild animals bounce quickly back. People resort to growing their own food, keeping livestock and hunting.\n\nTen years after oil, artificial satellites burn up in the atmosphere as parts are not being replaced. Electronic equipment is scavenged for precious metals as people start recycling on a huge scale. Algae is used as a bio-fuel. Trucks deliver supplies to hospitals.\n\nForty years after oil, skies are much clearer and cleaner as pollutants are washed out. Aeroplanes, trains, and ships now run on biofuel. Lithium battery cars are expensive. People only grow and farm what they need. New towns grow along railway points. A world trade based on biofuel and lithium is now growing.\n\nOvernight, the population of the earth doubles, from about 7 billion to nearly 14 billion.\n\nThe governments of the world attempt to cope at first by ordering the construction of gigantic highrise apartment complexes. However, the often outdated public works systems cannot handle this vastly increased load, and bridges break and sewers fail, leading to contamination of the water supply. Much of the remaining woodlands of the earth are cleared to form new farms and housing. In the meantime, emergency rationing becomes commonplace. Rationing of water and food becomes common, and countries who formerly exported grain stop the exports, leading to a drastic shortage. Even in wealthy countries, food and water resources are becoming strained as countries struggle to support the doubled population. Electrical power grids have difficulty keeping up with the increased demand. New coal plants are built to relieve the pressure, but they result in worldwide air pollution.\n\nWater shortage becomes the primary problem, with not enough water available for drinking or farming. Looting becomes a problem, and martial law is declared in many places. Desalination plants are built to deal with the water shortage. People in countries that lack water and food begin leaving the country in search of resources, prompting an unprecedented human migration. Many people head to the Great Lakes, forming massive tent cities.\n\nYears later, a population crash occurs before the population stabilizes at 4 billion.\n\nThis scenario is unique because it doesn't happen overnight, but rather over a given period of time: The Earth revolves at 1,000 miles an hour, but is gradually slowing down, yet this slowing is too slow to be noticed on human timescales. But what if it significantly slowed and eventually stopped? (The reason for this is because if the Earth stopped spinning instantly, everything on its surface, including buildings and trees, would blown away eastward across the planet by winds over thousands of miles per hour, which would essentially kill every living thing on the surface in the process)\n\nThe spin of the Earth starts slowing down dramatically. It is estimated Earth would stop spinning in as little as 5 years. The first effect is the isolation between the Global Positioning System satellites and ground-based atomic clocks. Then stock markets crash because of uncertainty about humanity's future. As times goes on the oceanic bulge of water at the equator moves northward and southward. The water floods Russia, Canada, Antarctica and Northern Europe. The atmosphere, once shaking solar heat out over the world and shifting air, stops and whirls to the poles. The air starts to thin at the equator and people have to migrate to more northerly and southerly cities in order to keep up with denser air. There is a higher risk of solar radiation as the magnetosphere weakens because of the slowing inner core. As the Earth slows, the crust, mantle and the molten core slows down at a different speeds, causing massive friction. This creates tremendous earthquakes where there have never been earthquakes before.\n\nHumans and other animals start suffering from sleep fatigue as their bodies cannot properly work in a day longer than 60 hours.\n\nThe new oceans at the poles starts inundating the Contiguous United States and Mediterranean Europe around this time. As the oceans have moved to the poles, the sea-bed dries out, revealing new land. Canada, Russia, Antarctica and most of Europe are underwater.\n\nEventually, the Earth stops spinning altogether. The scorching light of day lasts for six months, while the remaining six months of the year are ice-bound darkness of night. The planetary landscape now consists of one ocean approximately 10 miles deep in the north, one in the south and a girdle of land around the equator. Most of the new continent is uninhabitable due to thin air, but the former ocean floor has a sufficient air pressure for human life.\n\nSurvivors living in places such as Kansas, Nebraska, and Oklahoma are safe from flooding and have sufficient air pressure to sustain human habitability, but in the new stable climate of the still Earth it will either receive very little or will never rain in these places again— even worse, because the electricity supply is destroyed due to the flooding, the survivors are unable to desalinate the oceans for water for several years. Survivors living in Hawaii, now part of the new equatorial megacontinent are better off than survivors living in Kansas, Nebraska, and Oklahoma because the colony is about 1000 miles north from the edge of the Sun's path— survivors living there are able to get sufficient amounts of water from rain to last the year, and would be able to fish without having to break through the ice and put their lives at risk.\n\nSwallowed by the Sun\n\nLife on Earth is dependent on the Sun's light and heat in order to survive, but our Sun won't live forever and eventually it will die one day. However, the Sun's death will not happen for billions of years. What if the Sun started aging rapidly at an accelerated rate?\n\nThe sun expands to its red giant phase. If the sun aged billions of years overnight, the average global temperature would go up by 36 °F (20 °C). In Greenland and Antarctica, snow and ice would begin to melt. Sea levels around the world would rise by more than , submerging coastal cities. Regular temperatures this hot, around , are hard for us to handle. If our body temperature increases by 6 °F to 7 °F (3-4 °C) for an extended period of time, we can suffer permanent injury or death.\n\nAt , we can't survive. The heat, hot enough to boil water, would blind and suffocate us. The magnetosphere, an invisible field circling our planet that protects us from blasts of solar radiation, would begin to weaken. The only place humans could survive is underground, and to explore the Earth's surface, humans have to wear spacesuits.\n\nAt , water would begin to evaporate much faster than it does today. The sun would literally boil water off our Earth. Animals that breathe, including hardy creatures like cockroaches, (which lack lungs), couldn't survive. The oxygen levels are so low that fires don't start and the clouds don't rain.\n\nAt , all human life on Earth would be finished. We couldn't even survive underground or in spacesuits. Every last drop of water evaporates, turning the oceans into deserts. The air pressure resulting from the vaporized oceans would increase to 4000 psi, destroying any pressurized containers. Anything made of plastic or other synthetic material melts away. Concrete deteriorates as the water inside it evaporates explosively, resulting in collapsing buildings.\n\nAt , what is left burns, because oxygen levels shoot back up. Stone structures such as Stonehenge and the Egyptian Pyramids melt down, erasing the last of what humans have made. The planet would start turning red as the iron in Earth's crust begins to rust.\n\nAs the sun expands on its way to becoming a Red Giant, its massive outer edges would begin to slow the Earth's orbit. Our planet, now a fireball, burning up like a meteorite, would be swallowed by the sun.\n\nHistory Television title for this show is \"Red Giant\", the National Geographic Channel title for it is \"Swallowed by the Sun\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5760950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5760950", "title": "Ahijah the Shilonite", "text": "Ahijah the Shilonite\n\nAhijah the Shilonite (, was a Levite prophet of Shiloh in the days of Solomon, as mentioned in the Hebrew Bible's 1 Kings. Ahijah foretold to Jeroboam that he would become king ().\n\nThe Hebrew Bible records two of his prophecies. In , he announced the separation of the Northern ten tribes from Solomon's united kingdom, forming the Northern Kingdom. In , Ahijah's prophecy, delivered to Jeroboam's wife, foretold the death of the king's son, the destruction of Jeroboam's dynasty, and the fall and captivity of Israel \"beyond the River\", a stock expression for the land east of the Euphrates.\n\nAccording to 2 Chronicles, Ahijah also authored a book, described as the \"Prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite\", which contained information about Solomon's reign. This text, however, has not survived and is one of the lost texts mentioned in the Hebrew Bible. In it is referred to as the \"Book of the Acts of Solomon\".\n\nRabbinic tradition credits Ahijah with having lived a very long life, linking his life-span with that of antediluvian patriarchs such as Methuselah and Adam.\n"}
{"id": "11868910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11868910", "title": "Ajiboyede", "text": "Ajiboyede\n\nAjiboyede was a successful but autocratic king of Oyo. He succeeded Orompoto.\n\nAccording to Oyo tales, the empire was attacked by King of Nupe, Lajomo during Ajiboyede's time in office. Originally, the battle was going in favor of the invaders until a bit of trickery and heroism by Ajanlapa, the Osi-wefa changed the course and gave favor to the Oyos. To commemorate Ajanlapa's valor in war, the King created a special honor in the palace for Ajanlapa's son. The son was given a full-time and rare permission to be a guest in the palace of the Alaafin and to take the stead in place of the king at some occasions. Unfortunately, this honor required that he had to become a eunuch, as this was the tradition for high court offices. Ajiboyede thought it would be ungrateful to have Ajanlapa's son castrated, but his advisers strongly recommended having him gelded. The King agreed and the boy was castrated. \n\nA festival known as Bebe was started to celebrate peace on the victory of Oyo over the Nupes. During the peaceful period, commerce and agriculture thrived, and the new capital of Igboho began to grow as a result of a favorable geographical location and population concentration. In the process, two major markets were established during his reign, and the city became a major trade route for acquiring horses from Hausaland.\n\n"}
{"id": "181896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181896", "title": "Alan of Tewkesbury", "text": "Alan of Tewkesbury\n\nAlan, Abbot of Tewkesbury (date of birth unknown) is said by Gervase of Canterbury (contemporary chronicler) to be of English (i.e. non-Norman) descent. He probably spent some time at Benevento (Italy). Became a monk at Canterbury, rising to prior in 1179. In the struggle between Thomas of Canterbury and Henry II, he was a strong supporter of Thomas. As a result, he went to Tewkesbury as abbot where he was out of Henry's way.\n\nHis works are written about in \"Life of St. Thomas\" printed (as \"Life of Becket\") in the second volume of \"Materials for the History of Thomas Becket\", edited by James Craigie Robertson (Rolls Series, London,; 1875–85; Part I, CXC, 1475–88). \n\nHe also collected and arranged a number of Thomas' epistles.\n"}
{"id": "44094945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44094945", "title": "Aleksandr Markin", "text": "Aleksandr Markin\n\nAleksandr Andreyevich Markin (; 10 October 1949 in Magnitogorsk – 2 September 1996 in St. Petersburg in an apartment fire) was a Soviet Russian football player.\n\nHe is most notable as the top scorer of the 1976 (autumn) Soviet Top League with 13 goals. He was the first FC Zenit St. Petersburg player to become a top scorer and the only Zenit player to score 4 goals in a league game.\n\nHe was also the top scorer in the 1974 season of the Soviet First League with 25 goals.\n"}
{"id": "304041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304041", "title": "Artaxerxes III", "text": "Artaxerxes III\n\nArtaxerxes III Ochus of Persia (; \"Artaxšaçā\") ( 338 BC) was the eleventh emperor of the Achaemenid Empire, as well as the first Pharaoh of the 31st dynasty of Egypt. He was the son and successor of Artaxerxes II and was succeeded by his son, Arses of Persia (also known as Artaxerxes IV). His reign coincided with the reign of Philip II in Macedon and Nectanebo II in Egypt.\n\nIn his \"Historia Scholastica\" Petrus Comestor identified Artaxerxes III as Ahasuerus in the book of Esther (Esther 1:1/10:1).\n\nBefore ascending the throne Artaxerxes was a satrap and commander of his father's army. Artaxerxes came to power after one of his brothers was executed, another committed suicide, the last murdered and his father, Artaxerxes II died. Soon after becoming king, Artaxerxes murdered all of the royal family to secure his place as king. He started two major campaigns against Egypt. The first campaign failed, and was followed up by rebellions throughout the western part of his empire. In 343 BC, Artaxerxes defeated Nectanebo II, the Pharaoh of Egypt, driving him from Egypt, stopping a revolt in Phoenicia on the way.\n\nIn Artaxerxes' later years, Philip II of Macedon's power was increasing in Greece, where he tried to convince the Greeks to revolt against the Achaemenid Empire. His activities were opposed by Artaxerxes, and with his support, the city of Perinthus resisted a Macedonian siege.\n\nThere is evidence for a renewed building policy at Persepolis in his later life, where Artaxerxes erected a new palace and built his own tomb, and began long-term projects such as the Unfinished Gate.\n\nArtaxerxes III (, \"Artaxšaçrā\", \"he whose empire is well-fitted\" or \"perfected\", or Arta:\"honoured\" + Xerxes: \"a king\" (\"the honoured king\"), according to Herodotus \"the great warrior\") was the throne name adopted by Ochus when he succeeded his father in 358 BC. He is generally referred to as Ochus, but in modern Iran he is known as Ardeshir III (). In Babylonian inscriptions he is called \"Umasu, who is called Artakshatsu\". The same form of the name (probably pronounced Uvasu) occurs in the Syrian version of the Canon of Kings by Elias of Nusaybin.\n\nBefore ascending the throne Artaxerxes had been a satrap and commander of his father's army. In 359 BC, just before ascending the throne, he attacked Egypt as a reaction to Egypt's failed attacks on coastal regions of Phoenicia. In 358 BC his father, Artaxerxes II, died, it was said to be because of a broken heart caused by his children's behaviour, and, since his other sons, Darius, Ariaspes and Tiribazus had already been eliminated by plots, Artaxerxes III succeeded him as king. His first order was the execution of over 80 of his nearest relations to secure his place as king.\n\nIn 355 BC, Artaxerxes forced Athens to conclude a peace which required the city's forces to leave Anatolia and to acknowledge the independence of its rebellious allies. Artaxerxes started a campaign against the rebellious Cadusii, but he managed to appease both of the Cadusian kings. One individual who successfully emerged from this campaign was Darius Codomannus, who later occupied the Persian throne as Darius III.\n\nArtaxerxes then ordered the disbanding of all the satrapal armies of Asia Minor, as he felt that they could no longer guarantee peace in the west and was concerned that these armies equipped the western satraps with the means to revolt. The order was however ignored by Artabazus of Lydia, who asked for the help of Athens in a rebellion against the king. Athens sent assistance to Sardis. Orontes of Mysia also supported Artabazus and the combined forces managed to defeat the forces sent by Artaxerxes in 354 BC. However, in 353 BC, they were defeated by Artaxerxes’ army and were disbanded. Orontes was pardoned by the king, while Artabazus fled to the safety of the court of Philip II of Macedon.\n\nIn around 351 BC, Artaxerxes embarked on a campaign to recover Egypt, which had revolted under his father, Artaxerxes II. At the same time a rebellion had broken out in Asia Minor, which, being supported by Thebes, threatened to become serious. Levying a vast army, Artaxerxes marched into Egypt, and engaged Nectanebo II. After a year of fighting the Egyptian Pharaoh, Nectanebo inflicted a crushing defeat on the Persians with the support of mercenaries led by the Greek generals Diophantus and Lamius. Artaxerxes was compelled to retreat and postpone his plans to reconquer Egypt.\n\nSoon after this defeat, Phoenicia, Anatolia and Cyprus declared their independence from Persian rule. In 343 BC, Artaxerxes committed responsibility for the suppression of the Cyprian rebels to Idrieus, prince of Caria, who employed 8000 Greek mercenaries and forty triremes, commanded by Phocion the Athenian, and Evagoras, son of the elder Evagoras, the Cypriot monarch. Idrieus succeeded in reducing Cyprus. Artaxerxes initiated a counter-offensive against Sidon by commanding the satrap of Syria and Mezseus, and the satrap of Cilicia to invade the city and to keep the Phoenicians in check. Both satraps suffered crushing defeats at the hands of Tennes, the Sidonese king, who was aided by 40,000 Greek mercenaries sent to him by Nectanebo II and commanded by Mentor of Rhodes. As a result, the Persian forces were driven out of Phoenicia.\n\nAfter this, Artaxerxes personally led an army of 330,000 men against Sidon. Artaxerxes' army comprised 300,000 foot soldiers, 30,000 cavalry, 300 triremes, and 500 transports or provision ships. After gathering this army, he sought assistance from the Greeks. Though refused aid by Athens and Sparta, he succeeded in obtaining a thousand Theban heavy-armed hoplites under Lacrates, three thousand Argives under Nicostratus, and six thousand Æolians, Ionians, and Dorians from the Greek cities of Anatolia. This Greek support was numerically small, amounting to no more than 10,000 men, but it formed, together with the Greek mercenaries from Egypt who went over to him afterwards, the force on which he placed his chief reliance, and to which the ultimate success of his expedition was mainly due.\n\nThe approach of Artaxerxes sufficiently weakened the resolution of Tennes that he endeavoured to purchase his own pardon by delivering up 100 principal citizens of Sidon into the hands of the Persian king, and then admitting Artaxerxes within the defences of the town. Artaxerxes had the 100 citizens transfixed with javelins, and when 500 more came out as supplicants to seek his mercy, Artaxerxes consigned them to the same fate. Sidon was then burnt to the ground, either by Artaxerxes or by the Sidonian citizens. Forty thousand people died in the conflagration. Artaxerxes sold the ruins at a high price to speculators, who calculated on reimbursing themselves by the treasures which they hoped to dig out from among the ashes. Tennes was later put to death by Artaxerxes. Artaxerxes later sent Jews who supported the revolt to Hyrcania, on the south coast of the Caspian Sea.\n\nThe reduction of Sidon was followed closely by the invasion of Egypt. In 343 BC, Artaxerxes, in addition to his 330,000 Persians, had now a force of 14,000 Greeks furnished by the Greek cities of Asia Minor: 4,000 under Mentor, consisting of the troops which he had brought to the aid of Tennes from Egypt; 3,000 sent by Argos; and 1000 from Thebes. He divided these troops into three bodies, and placed at the head of each a Persian and a Greek. The Greek commanders were Lacrates of Thebes, Mentor of Rhodes and Nicostratus of Argos while the Persians were led by Rhossaces, Aristazanes, and Bagoas, the chief of the eunuchs. Nectanebo II resisted with an army of 100,000 of whom 20,000 were Greek mercenaries. Nectanebo II occupied the Nile and its various branches with his large navy. The character of the country, intersected by numerous canals, and full of strongly fortified towns, was in his favour and Nectanebo II might have been expected to offer a prolonged, if not even a successful, resistance. But he lacked good generals, and over-confident in his own powers of command, he was able to be out-manoeuvred by the Greek mercenary generals and his forces eventually defeated by the combined Persian armies.\n\nAfter his defeat, Nectanebo hastily fled to Memphis, leaving the fortified towns to be defended by their garrisons. These garrisons consisted of partly Greek and partly Egyptian troops; between whom jealousies and suspicions were easily sown by the Persian leaders. As a result, the Persians were able to rapidly reduce numerous towns across Lower Egypt and were advancing upon Memphis when Nectanebo decided to quit the country and flee southwards to Ethiopia. The Persian army completely routed the Egyptians and occupied the Lower Delta of the Nile. Following Nectanebo fleeing to Ethiopia, all of Egypt submitted to Artaxerxes. The Jews in Egypt were sent either to Babylon or to the south coast of the Caspian Sea, the same location that the Jews of Phoenicia had earlier been sent.\n\nAfter this victory over the Egyptians, Artaxerxes had the city walls destroyed, started a reign of terror, and set about looting all the temples. Persia gained a significant amount of wealth from this looting. Artaxerxes also raised high taxes and attempted to weaken Egypt enough that it could never revolt against Persia. For the 10 years that Persia controlled Egypt, believers in the native religion were persecuted and sacred books were stolen. Before he returned to Persia, he appointed Pherendares as satrap of Egypt. With the wealth gained from his reconquering Egypt, Artaxerxes was able to amply reward his mercenaries. He then returned to his capital having successfully completed his invasion of Egypt.\n\nAfter his success in Egypt, Artaxerxes returned to Persia and spent the next few years effectively quelling insurrections in various parts of the Empire so that a few years after his conquest of Egypt, the Persian Empire was firmly under his control. Egypt remained a part of the Persian Empire until Alexander the Great's conquest of Egypt.\n\nAfter the conquest of Egypt, there were no more revolts or rebellions against Artaxerxes. Mentor and Bagoas, the two generals who had most distinguished themselves in the Egyptian campaign, were advanced to posts of the highest importance. Mentor, who was governor of the entire Asiatic seaboard, was successful in reducing to subjection many of the chiefs who during the recent troubles had rebelled against Persian rule. In the course of a few years Mentor and his forces were able to bring the whole Asian Mediterranean coast into complete submission and dependence.\n\nBagoas went back to the Persian capital with Artaxerxes, where he took a leading role in the internal administration of the Empire and maintained tranquility throughout the rest of the Empire. During the last six years of the reign of Artaxerxes III, the Persian Empire was governed by a vigorous and successful government.\n\nThe Persian forces in Ionia and Lycia regained control of the Aegean and the Mediterranean Sea and took over much of Athens’ former island empire. In response, Isocrates of Athens started giving speeches calling for a ‘crusade against the barbarians’ but there was not enough strength left in any of the Greek city-states to answer his call.\n\nAlthough there weren't any rebellions in the Persian Empire itself, the growing power and territory of Philip II of Macedon in Macedon (against which Demosthenes was in vain warning the Athenians) attracted the attention of Artaxerxes. In response, he ordered that Persian influence was to be used to check and constrain the rising power and influence of the Macedonian kingdom. In 340 BC, a Persian force was dispatched to assist the Thracian prince, Cersobleptes, to maintain his independence. Sufficient effective aid was given to the city of Perinthus that the numerous and well-appointed army with which Philip had commenced his siege of the city was compelled to give up the attempt. By the last year of Artaxerxes' rule, Philip II already had plans in place for an invasion of the Persian Empire, which would crown his career, but the Greeks would not unite with him.\n\nIn 338 BC Artaxerxes was according to a Greek source, Diodorus of Sicily, poisoned by Bagoas with the assistance of a physician. A cuneiform tablet in the British Museum (BM 71537) however suggests Artaxerxes III died from natural causes.\n\nHistorically, kings of the Achaemenid Empire were followers of Zoroaster or heavily influenced by Zoroastrian ideology. The reign of Artaxerxes II saw a revival of the cult of Anahita and Mithra, when in his building inscriptions he invoked Ahura Mazda, Anahita and Mithra and even set up statues of his gods. Mithra and Anahita had until then been neglected by true Zoroastrians--they defied Zoroaster’s command that God was to be represented only by the flames of a sacred fire. Artaxerxes III is thought to have rejected Anahita and worshipped only Ahuramazda and Mithra. An ambiguity in the cuneiform script of an inscription of Artaxerxes III at Persepolis suggests that he regarded the father and the son as one person, suggesting that the attributes of Ahuramazda were being transferred to Mithra. Strangely, Artaxerxes had ordered that statues of the goddess Anâhita be erected at Babylon, Damascus and Sardis, as well as at Susa, Ecbatana and Persepolis.\n\nArtaxerxes' name appears on silver coins (modeled on Athenian ones) issued while he was in Egypt. The reverse bears an inscription in an Egyptian script, saying \"Artaxerxes Pharaoh. Life, Prosperity, Wealth\".\n\nIt is thought by some that the \"Book of Judith\" could have been originally based on Artaxerxes' campaign in Phoenicia, as Holofernes was the name of the brother of the Cappadocian satrap Ariarathes, the vassal of Artaxerxes. Bagoas, the general that finds Holofernes dead, was one of the generals of Artaxerxes during his campaign against Phoenicia and Egypt.\n\nThere is evidence for a renewed building policy at Persepolis, but some of the buildings were unfinished at the time of his death. Two of his buildings at Persepolis were the Hall of Thirty-Two Columns, the purpose of which is unknown, and the palace of Artaxerxes III. The unfinished Army Road and Unfinished Gate, which connected the Gate of All Nations and the One-hundred Column Hall, gave archaeologists an insight into the construction of Persepolis. In 341 BC, after Artaxerxes returned to Babylon from Egypt, he apparently proceeded to build a great Apadana whose description is present in the works of Diodorus Siculus.\n\nThe Nebuchadnezzar II palace in Babylon was expanded during the reign of Artaxerxes III. Artaxerxes' tomb was cut into the mountain behind the Persepolis platform, next to his father's tomb.\n\nArtaxerxes III was the son of Artaxerxes II and Statira. Artaxerxes II had more than 115 sons by many wives, most of them however were illegitimate. Some of Ochus' more significant siblings were Rodogune, Apama, Sisygambis, Ocha, Darius and Ariaspes, most of whom were murdered soon after his ascension. Artaxerxes married his niece and the daughter of Oxathres, brother of the future king Darius III. His children were Arses, the future king of Persia, Bisthanes and Parysatis II, wife of Alexander the Great.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6539255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6539255", "title": "Barton Biggs", "text": "Barton Biggs\n\nBarton Michael Biggs (November 26, 1932 – July 14, 2012) was a money manager whose attention to emerging markets marked him as one of the world's first and foremost global investment strategists, a position he held—after inventing it in 1985—at Morgan Stanley, where he worked as a partner for over 30 years. Following his retirement in 2003, he founded Traxis Partners, a multibillion-dollar hedge fund, based in Greenwich, Connecticut. He is best known for accurately predicting the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s.\n\nBiggs was born on November 26, 1932, in New York City, named for his maternal grandmother, whose last name was Barton. He grew up on Manhattan's Upper East Side and in Washington, D.C. His paternal grandfather, Hermann M. Biggs, was the top public-health official in New York and instituted measures that contributed to the eradication of tuberculosis. Biggs' father was the chief investment officer of Bank of New York, working at the company from 1931 until his death in 1974. He also renegotiated defense contracts for the U.S. government during World War II and was executive committee chairman of the Brookings Institution. He attended the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey and graduated in 1951.\n\nBiggs enrolled at Yale University, his father's alma mater. He studied under poet and novelist Robert Penn Warren as an English major and was a member of the Elihu secret society. After graduating in 1955, Biggs served in the U.S. Marines for three years, taught English at the Landon School, a prep school in Bethesda, Maryland, played semiprofessional soccer, and tried his hand at creative writing.\n\nAt age 18, Biggs was given a portfolio of 15 stocks worth about $150,000, but he showed little interest in finance and investing in his youth. He ended up choosing that career path after feeling left out from conversations between his father and younger brother, Jeremy, who worked at a pension fund. He took his father's advice and read \"Security Analysis\" by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, first published in 1934. He graduated from NYU Stern School of Business with distinction.\n\nBiggs joined E. F. Hutton upon graduation in 1961, with a starting salary of $7,200 a year. In 1965, Biggs co-founded one of the industry's first hedge funds, Fairfield Partners. During his eight-year tenure there, the fund returned 133 percent; whereas the S&P 500 returned a mere 19 percent.\n\nBiggs joined Morgan Stanley as a managing director and general partner in May 1973. As the firm's first research director, he established Morgan Stanley Investment Management in 1975. Biggs served on the bank's board until 1996 and retired from the company in 2003 at age 70. He claimed to have left Morgan Stanley partly because his job had evolved into managing people rather than formulating strategy.\n\nAfter leaving Morgan Stanley in 2003, Biggs founded hedge fund Traxis Partners, where he remained until his death. According to Madhav Dhar, Biggs' partner, he enjoyed the intellectual challenge of running a fund.\n\nHe \"sealed his fame\" as an investor when he correctly identified the dot-com bubble at a time the Dow Jones Industrial Average was posting annual gains that had averaged 25 percent from 1995 to 1999. In a July 1999 interview in Bloomberg Television, Biggs called the U.S. stock market \"the biggest bubble in the history of the world\", a view that was dismissed by the industry until March 2000, when the Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 78 percent.\n\nBarton Biggs was blindsided by the 2007–2012 global financial crisis:\n\nBarton Biggs's Traxis Fund LP tumbled 10 percent in the first half of the year, hurt by bets that U.S. shares would appreciate. As recently as May, Biggs, 75, said the U.S. economy will grow in the second half of 2008, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index may climb to a record and commodity prices will retreat as much as 30 percent. \n\nHowever, he correctly called the bottom in U.S. stocks in March 2009, and that year Traxis's flagship fund returned three times the industry average.\n\nHe had predicted the bull market in U.S. stocks that began in 1982. He also predicted the bearish market in Japanese stocks in 1989, when the Nikkei 225 stock index was approaching its peak, from which it tumbled more than 77 percent. On the other hand, he was incorrectly bullish on Mexico shortly before the peso crashed in 1994. In March 2003, Biggs predicted that U.S.stocks would rise up to 50 percent, and more for emerging markets; the former climbed as much as 88 percent, while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose more than fourfold.\n\nHis influence could be seen when, in 1996, some traders were surprised that India funds suddenly became popular. \"Barton Biggs is there, having a look around\", one trader said. \"Do you need to know more?\" Biggs was named by \"Institutional Investor\" magazine to its \"All-America Research Team\" ten times, and was voted the top global strategist and first in global asset allocation from 1996 to 2000 by the magazine's \"Investor Global Research Team\" poll. \"SmartMoney\" magazine once called him \"the ultimate big-picture man ... the premier prognosticator on the international scene and a mover of markets from Argentina to Hong Kong. It wouldn't be a stretch to say Biggs wrote the book on emerging-market investing\".\n\nBiggs has appeared numerous times on CNBC and was a member of the Barron's Roundtable.\n\nBiggs and his wife, Judith Anne Lund had three children; the marriage ended in divorce. At the time of his death, Biggs lived in Connecticut. He died from complications arising from a bacterial infection.\n\nBiggs was the author of \"Hedgehogging\", which came from a journal kept by the former creative writing major at Yale and chronicles some of the indignities of being in the hedge fund business as well as its \"very brilliant and often eccentric and obsessive people\". He wrote about quirks of hedge fund culture; he noted that golf was very popular, perhaps due to its \"measurable\" nature similar to investing. \"Or\", he wrote, \"maybe it's because hedge-fund guys are so competitive and have such massive egos\".\n\nBiggs was also author of the 2008 book \"Wealth, War and Wisdom\". He had a gloomy outlook for the economic future, and suggests that investors take survivalist measures, such as looking into \"polar cities\" as safe refuges for future survivors of global warming. Biggs recommended that his readers should \"assume the possibility of a breakdown of the civilized infrastructure\". He went so far as to recommend planning adaptation strategies now and setting up survival retreats: \"Your safe haven must be self-sufficient and capable of growing some kind of food\", Mr. Biggs wrote. \"It should be well-stocked with seed, fertilizer, canned food, wine, medicine, clothes, etc. Think Swiss Family Robinson. Even in America and Europe there could be moments of riot and rebellion when law and order temporarily completely breaks down.\"\n\nIn 2010, Biggs published a novel about the stock market, \"A Hedge-Fund Tale\". In 2012, a final book, \"Diary of a Hedgehog\" was published posthumously on November 6.\n\n"}
{"id": "1956761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956761", "title": "Brookings Report", "text": "Brookings Report\n\nProposed Studies on the Implications of Peaceful Space Activities for Human Affairs, often referred to as \"the Brookings Report\", was a 1960 report commissioned by NASA and created by the Brookings Institution in collaboration with NASA's Committee on Long-Range Studies. It was submitted to the House Committee on Science and Astronautics of the United States House of Representatives in the 87th United States Congress on April 18, 1961. It was entered into the \"Congressional Record\" and can be found in any library possessing the \"Congressional Record\" for that year.\n\nThe report has become noted for one short section entitled \"The implications of a discovery of extraterrestrial life\", which examines the potential implications of such a discovery on public attitudes and values. The section briefly considers possible public reactions to some possible scenarios for the discovery of extraterrestrial life, stressing a need for further research in this area. It recommends continuing studies to determine the likely social impact of such a discovery and its effects on public attitudes, including study of the question of how leadership should handle information about such a discovery and under what circumstances leaders might or might not find it advisable to withhold such information from the public. The significance of this section of the report is a matter of controversy. Persons who believe that extraterrestrial life has already been confirmed and that this information is being withheld by government from the public sometimes turn to this section of the report as support for their view. Frequently cited passages from this section of the report are drawn both from its main body and from its footnotes.\n\nAlthough the report discusses the need for research on many policy issues related to space exploration, it is most often cited for passages from its brief section on the implications of a discovery of extraterrestrial life.\n\nThe report touches on the possibility of covering up extraterrestrial life, including the following passages:\n\n\"While face-to-face meetings with it will not occur within the next twenty years (unless its technology is more advanced than ours, qualifying it to visit Earth), artifacts left at some point in time by these life forms might possibly be discovered through our space activities on the Moon, Mars, or Venus.\" – pages 182–183\n\n\"Anthropological files contain many examples of societies, sure of their place in the universe, which have disintegrated when they have had to associate with previously unfamiliar societies espousing different ideas and different life ways; others that survived such an experience usually did so by paying the price of changes in values and attitudes and behavior.\" – page 183\n\n\"Since intelligent life might be discovered at any time via the radio telescope research presently under way, and since the consequences of such a discovery are presently unpredictable because of our limited knowledge of behavior under even an approximation of such dramatic circumstances, two research areas can be recommended:\nContinuing studies to determine emotional and intellectual understanding and attitudes -- and successive alterations of them if any -- regarding the possibility and consequences of discovering intelligent extraterrestrial life.\nHistorical and empirical studies of the behavior of peoples and their leaders when confronted with dramatic and unfamiliar events or social pressures. Such studies might help to provide programs for meeting and adjusting to the implications of such a discovery. Questions one might wish to answer by such studies would include: How might such information, under what circumstances, be presented to or withheld from the public for what ends? What might be the role of the discovering scientists and other decision makers regarding release of the fact of discovery?\" – pages 183–184 \n\n\"An individual's reactions to such a radio contact would in part depend on his cultural, religious, and social background, as well as on the actions of those he considered authorities and leaders, and their behavior, in turn, would in part depend on their cultural, social, and religious environment. The discovery would certainly be front-page news everywhere; the degree of political or social repercussion would probably depend on leadership's interpretation of (1) its own role, (2) threats to that role, and (3) national and personal opportunities to take advantage of the disruption or reinforcement of the attitudes and values of others. Since leadership itself might have great need to gauge the direction and intensity of public attitudes, to strengthen its own morale and for decision making purposes, it would be most advantageous to have more to go on than personal opinions about the opinions of the public and other leadership groups.\" – page 183\n\n\"The knowledge that life existed in other parts of the universe might lead to a greater unity of men on Earth, based on the 'oneness' of man or on the age-old assumption that any stranger is threatening. Much would depend on what, if anything, was communicated between man and the other beings . . .\" – page 183\n\n\"The positions of the major American religious denominations, the Christian sects, and the Eastern religions on the matter of extraterrestrial life need elucidation. Consider the following:\n\n\"If plant life or some subhuman intelligence were found on Mars or Venus, for example, there is on the face of it no good reason to suppose these discoveries, after the original novelty had been exploited to the fullest and worn off, would result in substantial changes in perspectives or philosophy in large parts of the American public, at least any more than, let us say, did the discovery of the coelacanth or the panda.\" – page 103, n.34\n\n\"If super intelligence is discovered, the results become quite unpredictable. It is possible that if the intelligence of these creatures were sufficiently superior to ours, they would choose to have little if any contact with us. On the face of it, there is no reason to believe that we might learn a great deal from them, especially if their physiology and psychology were substantially different from ours.\"– page 103, n.34\n\n\"It has been speculated that, of all groups, scientists and engineers might be the most devastated by the discovery of relatively superior creatures, since these professions are most clearly associated with the mastery of nature, rather than with the understanding and expression of man. Advanced understanding of nature might vitiate all our theories at the very least, if not also require a culture and perhaps a brain inaccessible to Earth scientists.\" – page 103, n.34\n\n\"It is perhaps interesting to note that when asked what the consequences of the discovery of superior life would be, an audience of \"Saturday Review\" readership chose, for the most part, not to answer the question at all, in spite of their detailed answers to many other speculative questions.\" – page 103, n.34\n\n\"A possible but not completely satisfactory means for making the possibility 'real' for many people would be to confront them with present speculations about the I.Q. of the porpoise and to encourage them to expand on the implications of this situation.\" – page 105, n.36\n\n\"Such studies would include historical reactions to hoaxes, psychic manifestations, unidentified flying objects, etc. Hadley Cantril's study, \"Invasion from Mars\" (Princeton University Press, 1940), would provide a useful if limited guide in this area. Fruitful understanding might be gained from a comparative study of factors affecting the responses of primitive societies to exposure to technologically advanced societies. Some thrived, some endured, and some died.\" – page 105, n.37\n\nWhile not specifically recommending a cover-up of evidence of extraterrestrial life, the report does suggest that contact with intelligent extraterrestrial life (or strong evidence of its reality) could have a disruptive effect on human societies. Moreover, it does mention the possibility that leadership might wish to withhold evidence of extraterrestrial life from the public under some conditions.\n\nSome ufologists and conspiracy theorists argue that this section of the report, by outlining plausible motives for government suppression of a discovery of extraterrestrial intelligence, furnishes evidence of an ongoing cover-up of intelligent extraterrestrial life already discovered.\n\nIn an email published by The Virtually Strange Network, entitled \"Brookings Report Re-examined\", Keith Woodard writes that the Brookings Report: \"...did raise the possibility of withholding information, but took no position on its advisability. 'Questions one might wish to answer by such studies,' intoned the report, 'would include: how might such information, under what circumstances, be presented to or withheld from the public for what ends? What might be the role of the discovering scientists and other decision makers regarding release of the fact of discovery?' Those two sentences comprise the report's entire commentary on the subject of covering up the truth.\" Others argue that many passages from this section of the report (e.g., those passages that suggest close study of the historical record regarding the effects on traditional cultures of contact with previously unfamiliar or technologically more advanced societies) comment on the subject of cover-up indirectly by suggesting factors that leaders would want to consider if faced with a decision about whether to release such information to the public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31614556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614556", "title": "Capital punishment for drug trafficking", "text": "Capital punishment for drug trafficking\n\nIn certain countries illegal importing, exporting, sale, or possession of drugs constitute capital offences that may result in the death penalty. According to a 2011 article by the Lawyers Collective, an NGO in India, \"32 countries impose capital punishment for offences involving narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.\" A 2012 report by Harm Reduction International \"documents the 33 countries and territories that retain death penalty for drug offences, including 13 in which the sentence is mandatory.\"\n\nA 2009 CNN article lists penalties for drug-related crime in Asia by country. Since then President Thein Sein of Myanmar commuted all of the country’s death sentences to life imprisonment in January 2014. South Korea has the death penalty for drugs. But South Korea has a de facto moratorium on the death penalty since it has not executed anybody since 1997, even though there are still people on death row, and even though new death sentences have been handed down in the last few years.\n\nA 2015 article by \"The Economist\" says 32 countries have the death penalty for drug smuggling, but only 6 really carry it out.\n\n\nMethods of execution:\n\nResources for references:\n"}
{"id": "5289263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289263", "title": "Critical incident stress management", "text": "Critical incident stress management\n\nCritical incident stress management (CISM) is an adaptive, short-term psychological helping-process that focuses solely on an immediate and identifiable problem. It can include pre-incident preparedness to acute crisis management to post-crisis follow-up. Its purpose is to enable people to return to their daily routine more quickly and with less likelihood of experiencing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Evidence-based reviews, however, have concluded that CISM is ineffective for primary trauma victims, and should only be used for secondary victims, such as responding emergency services personnel. CISM was never intended to treat primary victims of trauma.\n\nCISM is designed to help people deal with their trauma one incident at a time, by allowing them to talk about the incident when it happens without judgment or criticism. The program is \"peer-driven\" and the people conducting the interventions may come from all walks of life, but most are first responders (Police, Fire, emergency medical services) or work in the mental health field. All interventions are strictly confidential, the only caveat to this is if the person doing the intervention determines that the person being helped is a danger to themself or to others. The emphasis is always on keeping people safe and returning them quickly to more \"normal\" levels of functioning.\n\n\"Normal\" is different for everyone, and it is not easy to quantify. Critical incidents raise stress levels dramatically in a short period of time and after treatment a new \"normal\" is established, however, it is always higher than the old level. The purpose of the intervention process is to establish or set the new \"normal\" stress levels as low as possible.\n\nCritical incidents are traumatic events that cause powerful emotional reactions in people who are exposed to those events. The most stressful of these are line of duty deaths, co-worker suicide, multiple event incidents, delayed intervention and multi-casualty incidents. Every profession can list their own worst-case scenarios that can be categorized as critical incidents. Emergency services organizations, for example, usually list the \"Terrible Ten\". They are:\n\nWhile any person may experience a critical incident, conventional wisdom says that members of law enforcement, fire fighting units, and emergency medical services are at great risk for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, less than 5% of emergency services personnel will develop long-term PTSD symptomatology. That percentage increases when responders endure the death of a co-worker in the line of duty. This rate is only slightly higher than the general population average of 3–4%, which indicates that despite the remarkably high levels of exposure to trauma, emergency workers are resilient, and people who join the field may self-select for emotional resilience. Emergency responders tend to portray themselves as \"tough”, professional, and unemotional about their work. They often find comfort with other responders, and believe that their families and friends in other professions are unable to completely understand their experiences. Humor is used as a defense mechanism. Alcohol or possibly other drugs/medications may be used to self-medicate in \"worst case\" situations.\n\nThe type of intervention used depends on the situation, the number of people involved, and their proximity to the event. One form of intervention is a three-step approach, whereas different approaches include as many as five stages. The exact number of steps is not what is important for the intervention's success, however. The goal of the intervention is to address the trauma along the general progression: defusing, debriefing, and followup.\n\nA defusing is done the day of the incident before the person(s) has a chance to sleep. The defusing is designed to assure the person or people involved that their feelings are normal, to tell them what symptoms to watch for over the short term, and to offer them a lifeline in the form of a telephone number where they can reach someone whom they can talk to. Defusings are limited only to individuals directly involved in the incident and are often done informally, sometimes at the scene. They are designed to assist individuals in coping in the short term and address immediate needs.\n\nDebriefings are usually the second level of intervention for those directly affected by the incident and often the first for those not directly involved.\n\nA debriefing is normally done within 72 hours of the incident and gives the individual or group the opportunity to talk about their experience, how it has affected them, brainstorm coping mechanisms, identify individuals at risk, and inform the individual or group about services available to them in their community. The final step is to follow up with them the day after the debriefing to ensure that they are safe and coping well or to refer the individual for professional counselling.\n\nAlthough many have co-opted the debriefing process for use with other groups, the primary focus in the field of CISM is to support staff members of organizations or members of communities which have experienced a traumatic event. The debriefing process (defined by the International Critical Incident Stress Foundation [ICISF]) has seven steps: introduction of intervenor and establishment of guidelines and invites participants to introduce themselves (while attendance at a debriefing may be mandatory, participation is not); details of the event given from individual perspectives; emotional responses given subjectively; personal reaction and actions; followed again by a discussion of symptoms exhibited since the event; instruction phase where the team discusses the symptoms and assures participants that any symptoms (if they have any at all) are a normal reaction to an abnormal event and \"generally\" these symptoms will diminish with time and self-care; following a brief period of shared informal discussion (generally over a beverage and treat) resumption of duty where individuals are returned to their normal tasks. The intervenor is always watching for individuals who are not coping well and additional assistance is offered at the conclusion of the process.\n\nThe important final step is follow-up. This is generally done within the week following the debriefing by team members as a check-in.\n\nA number of studies have shown that CISM has little effect, or that it actually worsens the trauma symptoms. Several meta-analyses in the medical literature either find no preventative benefit of CISM, or negative impact for those debriefed. On the other hand, Jacobs, Horne-Moyer and Jones argue that CISM has beneficial effects when conducted with emergency services personnel, but does not work or does more harm than good with accident victims. Blaney concludes that CISM works not because it is a medical intervention, but rather as a \"health promotion concept embedded in the culture and coping\" of firefighters in her study.\n\n"}
{"id": "56221934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56221934", "title": "Dataism", "text": "Dataism\n\nDataism is a term that has been used to describe the mindset or philosophy created by the emerging significance of Big Data. It was first used by David Brooks in the New York Times in 2013. More recently, the term has been expanded to describe what social scientist Yuval Noah Harari has called an emerging ideology or even a new form of religion, in which 'information flow' is the 'supreme value'.\n\n\"If you asked me to describe the rising philosophy of the day, I'd say it is Data-ism\", wrote David Brooks in the New York Times in February 2013. Brooks argued that in a world of increasing complexity, relying on data can reduce cognitive biases and \"illuminate patterns of behavior we haven't yet noticed\".\n\nIn 2015, Steve Lohr's book 'Data-ism' looked at how Big Data is transforming society, using the term to describe the Big Data revolution.\n\nIn his 2016 book, , Yuval Noah Harari takes the idea of Dataism further, putting it into a historical context. He argues that all competing political or social structures can be seen as data processing systems: \"Dataism declares that the universe consists of data flows, and the value of any phenomenon or entity is determined by its contribution to data processing\".\n\nHarari posits that \"we may interpret the entire human species as a single data processing system, with individual humans serving as its chips.\" He then argues that the whole of human history can be read as a process of improving the efficiency of this system by increasing the number and variety of processors/chips (humans) in the system, increasing the number of connections between the processors and increasing the freedom of movement along existing connections. A condensed form of this argument can be read in Harari's Wired article from 2016.\n\nHarari goes on to argue that Dataism, like any other religion, has practical commandments. A Dataist should want to \"maximise dataflow by connecting to more and more media\", and believes that freedom of information is \"the greatest good of all\". Harari also argues that Aaron Swartz, who took his life in 2013 after being prosecuted for releasing hundreds of thousands of scientific papers from the JSTOR archive online for free, could be called the \"first martyr\" of Dataism.\n\nWriting in the Financial Times, Harari argued that Dataism presents an existential challenge to the dominant moral ideology of Humanism, which sees human feelings as the ultimate authority in the world: \"humanism is now facing an existential challenge and the idea of “free will” is under threat... Once Big Data systems know me better than I know myself, authority will shift from humans to algorithms.\" Harari predicts that the logical conclusion of this process is that eventually humans will give algorithms the authority to make the most important decisions in their lives, such as who to marry and which career to pursue.\n\nCommenting on Harari's characterisation of Dataism, security analyst Daniel Miessler believes that Dataism does not present the challenge to the ideology of liberal humanism that Harari claims, because humans will simultaneously be able to believe in their own importance and that of data.\n\nHarari himself raises some criticisms, such as the problem of consciousness, which Dataism is unlikely to illuminate. Humans may also find out that organisms are not algorithms, he suggests.\n\nOther analysts such as Terry Ortleib have looked at the extent to which Dataism poses a dystopian threat to humanity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13382406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13382406", "title": "Gerard Aafjes", "text": "Gerard Aafjes\n\nGerard Aafjes (; born 27 January 1985) is a Dutch football defender who plays for Quick Boys in the 4th tier of Dutch football, the Hoofdklasse.\n\nAafjes was born in Mijdrecht and joined FC Volendam in 2004. He later signed a two-year deal with Falkirk in 2007, where he scored once against Inverness Caledonian Thistle. He joined MVV in the summer of 2009, signing a deal that will keep him with the club until 2011.\n\nOn 1 October 2013 Aafjes signed a contract with Danish club Vejle Boldklub. He came to the club on a free transfer. The contract runs out in 2013. In summer 2014, Aafjes returned to Holland to play for fourth-tier Quick Boys.\n"}
{"id": "1398934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1398934", "title": "Giuseppe Simone Assemani", "text": "Giuseppe Simone Assemani\n\nGiuseppe Simone Assemani ( Yusuf ibn Siman as-Simani, , ), was born on July 27, 1687 in Hasroun, Lebanon and died on January 13, 1768 in Rome. Assemani was a librarian, Lebanese orientalist and Maronite eparch. For his efforts, and his encyclopedic knowledge, he earned the nickname \"The Great Assemani\".\n\nGiuseppe Simone Assemani was born on 27 July 1687 in Hasroun, Mount Lebanon into the Assemani family. His surname is related to several distinguished Orientalists and clergy. \"Assemani\" is an Arabic patronymic which means son of Simeon, but this did not prevent him from being called Simon. When very young, in 1703, he was sent to the Maronite College in Rome, and was transferred thence to the Vatican library. Assemani graduated in 1709. A talented graduate (at that time he had written three essays on the Syrian grammar and theology), he was spotted by Pope Clement XI, who kept him in Rome and ordered him to catalogue early Christian manuscripts that were brought in 1707 from Egypt by his brother Elias. In 1710, Giuseppe worked as scribe of Oriental manuscripts (scriptor Orientalis), translator from Arabic and Syriac languages, and advisor to the Congregation for the review and reform of the liturgical books of the Eastern rites. He was ordained priest on 21 September 1710. In 1711 Assemani received papal authorization to pass from the Maronite rite to the Latin rite. From 1715 to 1717 he was sent to Wadi El Natrun, Cairo, Damascus and Lebanon to search for valuable manuscripts, and returned with about 150 very choice ones, which formed a collection in the Vatican Library. In 1735 Pope Clement XII sent him again to the East where he presided the 1736 Maronite Synod of Mount-Lebanon, which laid the foundations for the modern Maronite Church. He returned with a still more valuable collection, because he found the opportunity to collect even more ancient works. This time he brought about 2,000 works, and the most important of them was the Codex Assemanius, an evangeliary which he had brought from Jerusalem in 1736. He later played a significant role in mediating several crises in the Maronite Church hierarchy, by virtue of his influence in Rome and his knowledge of the Maronite Church.\n\nBack in 1738 Assemani was in Lebanon, and on his return was made, in 1739, First Librarian of the Vatican library. He was also appointed by Carlo di Borbone official chronicler of the Kingdom of Naples.\n\nIn Rome he began immediately to elaborate plans to publish the most valuable of his collected works. His translation of Ephrem the Syrian's writings, his bibliography of Syriac writers from the Clementino-Vaticana Library, and his classification of Byzantine writings, are also very important.\n\nIn recognition of his achievements, he was appointed bishop on December 1, 1766 and consecrated titular archbishop of Tyre on December 7, 1766 by Cardinal Henry Benedict Stuart Duke of York and Titular bishop of Frascati; his co-consecrators were his nephew Stefano Evodio Assemani, Titular bishop of Apamea in Bithynia, and Nicholas-Xavier Santamarie, Titular bishop of Cyrene. He died in Rome on 13 January 1768. Part of his work was lost in his apartment during a fire on August 30, 1768.\n\nHis brother and nephew were also noted orientalists.\n\nWhen appointed librarian of the Vatican library he instantly began to carry into execution most extensive plans for editing and publishing the most valuable manuscript treasures of the Vatican. His main work is:\n\nOf the \"Bibliotheca\" the first three vols only were completed. The work was to have been in four parts:\nOnly the first part was completed, but extensive preparations were made for the others. There is a German abridgment by August Friedrich Pfeiffer (Erlangen 1770-77) and a Reprint (Hildesheim, New York: Olms o.J. ca. 1990).\n\nOther works are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2910217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2910217", "title": "Gravedigger", "text": "Gravedigger\n\nA gravedigger is a cemetery worker who is responsible for digging a grave prior to a funeral service.\n\nIf the grave is in a cemetery on the property of a church or other religious organization (part of, or called, a churchyard), gravediggers may be members of the decedent's family or volunteer parishioners. Digging graves has also been one of the traditional duties of a church's sexton. In municipal and privately owned cemeteries, gravediggers may be low-paid, unskilled, and temporary laborers, or they may be well-paid, trained, and professional careerists, as their duties may include landscaping tasks and courteous interactions with mourners and other visitors. In some countries, gravedigging may be done by landscaping workers for the local council or local authority.\n\nA gravedigger implements a variety of tools to accomplish his primary task. A template, in the form of a wooden frame built to prescribed specifications, is often placed on the ground over the intended grave. The gravedigger may use a sod-cutter or spade to cut the outline of the grave and remove the top layer of sod. Digging the grave by hand usually requires shovels, picks, mattocks, and/or other tools. Cemeteries in industrialized countries may keep a backhoe loader and other heavy equipment, which greatly increases the efficiency of gravedigging.\n\nTypically, gravediggers - at least in most Western countries - will use a wooden box to put the soil in. This box consists of several large pieces of wood that fit together, and the box is assembled next to the grave. Once the grave has been dug and the soil from the grave has been placed in the box, the box will usually be covered with a piece of tarpaulin or similar material. The soil will then remain in the box until the day of the back-fill, when the funeral takes place and the soil is emptied back into the grave after the coffin has been lowered, after which the box is disassembled. Due to the close proximity of graves in cemeteries (4 feet between the centre of each headstone is common in modern UK cemeteries), invariably the wooden box is often placed in front of one or more other graves, and is seen as a nuisance to those wishing to visit graves adjacent to a grave that is due to be filled.\n\nAlthough the expression \"six feet under\" refers to the depth at which people were traditionally buried, at least in the UK the minimum legal depth for a new grave is seven feet. This allows a maximum of three coffins to be buried in the same grave, typically family members of the deceased who are buried at a later date when they die - which is known as a re-open. Gravediggers must take care to get the proportions of a grave right as the hole needs to be big enough for the coffin to be lowered in. Additionally, shoring is often used to stop a grave from collapsing. Gravediggers must make sure that the coffin can fit through the shoring. Additionally, on the day of the back-fill and for the funeral service, typically artificial turf will be placed around the grave whilst the coffin is being lowered. This is primarily for aesthetic reasons and serves no other real purpose.\n\nIn many cultures throughout history, gravediggers have been highly marginalized by their societies. In the traditional caste system of India, cemetery work has been the responsibility of the lowest castes, considered \"unclean\" or \"untouchable\" for their association with death.\n\nFossor (Latin Fossarius, from the verb \"fodere\" 'to dig') is a term described in Chambers' dictionary as archaic, but can conveniently be revived to describe grave diggers in the Roman catacombs in the first three centuries of the Christian Era. The duties of the Christian fossor corresponded in a general way with those of the pagan \"vespillones\", but whereas the latter were held in anything but esteem in pagan society (many religions consider corpses, and sometimes anyone who touches them, 'unclean' also in a religious sense), the fossors from an early date were ranked among the inferior clergy of the Church (Wieland, Ordines Minores, 1897).\n\nIn the \"Gesta apud Zenophilum\" by St. Optatus of Mileve, a reference is made to the character of the fossors as an order of inferior clergy. Speaking of the \"house in which Christians assembled\" at Cirta in the year 303, during the persecution of Diocletian, this writer enumerates first the higher orders of the clergy present, from the bishop to the subdeacons, and then mentions by name the fossors Januarius, Heraclius, Fructuosus, \"et ceteris fossoribus\". St. Jerome alludes to fossors as \"clerici\", and a sixth-century chronicle edited by Cardinal Mai enumerates the (minor) orders of the clergy as \"ostiarius\", \"fossorius\", \"lector\", etc. At first the fossors seem to have received no regular salary, but were paid by individuals for the work accomplished; with the organization of the Church, however, they appear to have been paid from the common treasury. In the fourth century the corporation of fossors was empowered to sell burial spaces. For example, in the cemetery of St. Cyriacus, two women bought from the fossor Quintus a \"bisomus\", or double grave, \"retro sanctos\" (behind and near a martyr's tomb), and there are several other references to this practice.\n\nThe corporation of fossors probably did not consist merely of the labourers who excavated the galleries of the catacombs; it also included the artists who decorated the tombs, as appears from another allusion in the \"Gesta apud Zenophilum\" already cited. According to this authority two fossors were brought before the judge; when interrogated as to their calling, one replied that he was a fossor, the other that he was an \"artifex\", meaning a painter or sculptor.\n\nAmong the representations of fossors in the catacombs the one best known, through Wiseman's \"Fabiola\", is that of the fossor Diogenes, discovered by Boldetti. The picture, which was seriously damaged in an attempt to remove it from the wall, represents Diogenes with his pick over his right shoulder and a sack, probably containing his midday meal, on his left shoulder, while in his left hand he carries a staff with a light attached. The inscription reads: \"DIOGENES FOSSOR, IN PACE DEPOSITVS, OCTABV KALENDAS OCTOBRIS\" (\"the fossor Diogenes, interred in peace, the eighth day before the calends of October\"). The oldest fresco of a fossor, or rather of two fossors, dates from the late second century, is in one of the Sacrament Chapels in the catacomb of St. Callistus. The figures are represented pointing toward three Eucharistic scenes, a reference to another of their duties, which was to exclude unauthorized persons from taking part in the liturgical celebrations held occasionally in the cemeteries in commemoration of martyrs. Representations of fossors are usually near the entrance of the subterranean cemeteries.\n\n\nOne of Barbara Paul's novels was titled \"First Gravedigger\" as an allusion to this scene.\n\nGravedigging has also been used as a theme in detective and crime fiction. Gravedigger Jones is one of two black detectives featured in the \"Harlem cycle\" of novels by Chester Himes. His partner in the novels is Coffin Ed Johnson and the pair are often involved in violent confrontations. The timbre of these novels is frequently mordant, and a funeral director is a recurring character.\n\nBecause of their association with the subject of death, gravediggers have made notable appearances in literature. Perhaps the most famous of these occurs during Act 5, Scene 1 of Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\", where Hamlet and Horatio engage in dialogue with one of the grave-makers (called \"First Clown\") as he is digging Ophelia's grave. The Gravediggers (or Clowns) make their one and only appearance at the beginning of Act v, Scene I. They enter and begin digging a grave for the newly deceased Ophelia, discussing whether or not she deserves a Christian burial after having killed herself.\nWhen together, the Gravediggers speak mainly in riddles and witty banter regarding death, with the first asking the questions and the second answering.\n\n\"and later in the scene:\"\n\nSoon, Hamlet enters and engages in a quick dialog with the first Gravedigger. The scene ends with Hamlet's soliloquies regarding the circle of life prompted by his discovery of the skull of his beloved jester, Yorick. The First Clown unearths Yorick's skull, prompting Hamlet to deliver the memorable lines: \"Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy\".\n\nIn the terminology of Marxism, a rising revolutionary class which is destined to overthrow and supplant an earlier ruling class is often referred to as that earlier class' \"gravedigger\". Thus, the bourgeoisie's historical role was to act as \"the gravedigger of feudalism\", but by creating a vast exploited working class which is bound to organise and stage a revolution, the bourgeoisie has inevitably created its own \"gravedigger\".\n\nThis metaphorical use of \"gravedigger\" is already attested in Karl Marx's own writings, and was continued in the same sense by Lenin, Trotsky and many other Marxist theoreticians and leaders.\n\nIn several societies worldwide, gravediggers are often drawn from the lowest social class or caste, and regarded as unclean. In India, gravediggers and related professions have traditionally been drawn from among the Untouchables. In feudal Japan, gravedigging was one of the \"unclean\" professions historically allotted to the Burakumin class. Other examples can be found in Ancient Egypt and elsewhere.\n\n\n As shown on a sign posted at that cemetery, see graveyards.com (photo 10 of 10)\n\n\n\"The Pappenheimer Family.\" \"World Eras, Vol. 1: European Renaissance and Reformation (1350-1600)\". Gale Group, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "46521585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46521585", "title": "Harry Acres", "text": "Harry Acres\n\nHarry Acres was a British composer of film scores. He was musical director for a number of years during the 1930s at British International Pictures's Elstree Studios. Acres tended to be involved with the studio's light comedies and musicals, rather than more serious and expensive historical films.\n\nAcres also worked as musical director for several Ivor Novello stage musicals including \"The Dancing Years\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251180", "title": "Houri", "text": "Houri\n\nThe houris (; from , ; plural of ' or '; ) are beings in Islamic mythology, described in English translations as \"and splendid companions of equal age [or well-matched]\", \"lovely eyed\", of \"modest gaze\" and virgins who will accompany the faithful in Jannah (Muslim paradise).\n\nThe houris are mentioned in several passages of the Quran, always in plural form. No specifics are ever given, though, as to the number of houris that should be available to each believer. As for the gender of the houris, the Quran does not indicate that only men would be granted the company of houris—in fact, it can be inferred from the context that both men and women believers will have a plural number of houris for themselves. This in turn leads to the assumptions that houris can be both male or female.\n\nOn the other hand, feminine adjectives or participles are always used when it is possible to make a distinction, and the Qur'an says that one of the favors granted to those in Paradise is houris \"untouched before them by man or Jinni\", which implies that they are (female) virgins. They are described as virgins in 56:36 (although the word in another context can mean \"first-born\").\n\nIn the Quran, the houris are called \"companions\", described as being \"restraining in their glances\" (chaste), with \"modest gazes\", \"wide and beautiful/lovely eyes\", \"eyes like pearls\", and \"full-breasted\". The word itself occurs four times, always in the plural, but they are also referred to in a few other passages in different terms:\n\nTo Shi'ite scholars, the most important fact of the description of the houris is that good deeds performed by believers are recompensated by the houris, which are the physical manifestations of ideal forms, that would not fade away over time, and who will serve as faithful companions to those they accompany.\n\nDetails of the houris that have been pointed out by Sunni scholars include that the houris would not urinate, defecate or menstruate. It has also been said that all houris are \"transparent to the marrow of their bones\", \"eternally young\", \"hairless except the eyebrows and the head\", \"pure\" and \"beautiful\". Islamic scholars such as Ibn Majah and Al-Suyuti have also described them as having libidinous vaginas.\n\nA number of Sunni \"ahadith\" (collections of the reports of the teachings, deeds and sayings of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, accepted as canonic by most, but not all, Muslims) also mention the houris:\n\n\n\nThe word 'ḥūr' () is the plural of both \"ʾaḥwar\" () (masculine) and \"ḥawrāʾ\" () (feminine) which can be translates as \"gazelle-eyed\" (or \"having eyes with an intense contrast of white and black\",) or as \"distinguished by ḥawar ()\", which itself means \"intense whiteness of the eyeballs and lustrous black of the pupils\". Some also propose that the most literal translation of the noun into English would be \"pure companions, most beautiful of the eyes\".\n\nIn Hebrew the corresponding adjective \"hiwer\" has the same root h-w-r, meaning \"pale, whitish\". The corresponding word for eye is \"Ayin\".\n\nThe word \"houri\" has entered several European languages (French – 1654, English – 1737) with the meaning of a \"elegant, beautiful, charming woman\".\n\nThe English word \"whore\" (German \"Hure\", Danish \"hore\", Swedish \"hora\", Dutch \"hoer\", Proto-Germanic \"*hōrōn\", masculine form Gothic \"hors\", Proto-Germanic \"*hōraz\") is thought to stem from the Proto-Indo-European verb root \"*keh₂-\" \"to love\" and is not etymologically related to the Arabic (Semitic and thus non-Indo-European) word \"houri\".\n\nSeveral translators—like Hilali-Khan, Arberry, Palmer, Rodwell and Sale—have translated the adjective \"ka'ib\" in Book 78, verse 33 of the Quran to refer to \"wide shoulders and chest\".\n\nIbn Kathir, in his tafsir, writes that the adjective contained in said verse \"means 'fit pectorals or breasts'.\" He goes on as to state that it is \"meant by this that the chest and pectorals or breasts of these girls will be fully fit and not sagging, because they will be virgins, equal in age. And the houris can be male and female both. It means the 'fit pectorals or breasts' can be male or female.\"\n\nAbdullah Yusuf Ali, on the other hand, translates said adjective into English simply as \"charming, elegant and holy\"—which refers to sensual (or physical) attributes, though not necessarily chest, pectorals or breasts.\n\nAs an alternative interpretation, Muhammad Asad has said the following regarding such verse:\nThe authoritative Arabic-English Lexicon of Edward William Lane defines the singular of the word kawa`ib as \"A girl whose chest is beginning to swell, or become prominent, or protuberant\", related to words meaning knob, chest, bosom, virginity, and so forth.\n\nIbn Kathir mentions Muhammed saying that man in heaven would have sex with one hundred virgins in one day. In another version of the hadith, Muhammad is reported to have said: \"\"In Paradise, the believer will be given such and such strength for women.\" Anas said, \"I asked, 'O Allah's Messenger! Will one be able to do that?' He said, \"He will be given the strength of a hundred (men)\".\" Some companions of Muhammad are reported to have said that man in heaven will be \"busy in deflowering virgins\" Ibn Kathir says that the houri \"are delightful virgins of comparable age who never had sexual intercourse with anyone, whether from mankind or Jinns, before their husbands.\" by commenting,\"in the other life, after they became old in this life, they were brought back while virgin, youthful, being delightfully passionate with their husbands, beautiful, kind and cheerful.\" \n\nImam Suyuti is reported to have said, \"[E]ach time we sleep with a houri we find her virgin. Besides, the penis of the Elected never softens. The erection is eternal; the sensation that you feel each time you make love is utterly delicious and out of this world and were you to experience it in this world you would faint. Each chosen one [ie Muslim] will marry seventy [sic] houris, besides the women he married on earth, and all will have appetising vaginas.\"\n\nIn another place, Ibn Kathir emphasizes the literal nature of sexual intercourse in Paradise by another Hadith:\n\"The Prophet was asked : 'Do we have sex in Paradise?' He answered: 'Yes, by him who holds my soul in his hand, and it will be done dahman, dahman (that is intercourse done with such shove and disturbance). And when it is finished she will return pure and virgin again.'\"\n\nIbn Kathir relates concerning the following verses:\n\"Verily, the dwellers of the Paradise, that Day, will be busy with joyful things. They and their wives will be in pleasant shade, reclining on thrones. They will have therein fruits and all that they ask for.\" [Chapter (Surah) Ya Seen (O Thou Human Being)(36):55-57]\n\nAlthough Ibn Kathir relates the opinion of some companions of Muhammad being reported to have said concerning \"will be busy with joyful things\" that means in heaven people will be \"busy in deflowering virgins\", he continues to relate other alternate meanings. Another companion, Ibn Abass has said that it refers \"listening to stringed instruments\". Others such as Al-Hasan Al-Basri and Isma`il bin Abi Khalid have said, \"they will be too busy to think about the torment which the people of Hell are suffering.\" Qatadah implied \"with the delights which they are enjoying.\" Ibn Abas said, \"this means that they will be rejoicing.\". While Mujahid said, \"Their spouses,(will be in pleasant shade) means, in the shade of trees.\"Ibn `Abbas, Mujahid, `Ikrimah, Muhammad bin Ka`b, Al-Hasan, Qatadah, As-Suddi and Khusayf said, \"beds beneath canopies.\"\n\nThe idea of 72 virgins in Islam refers to an aspect of paradise. In a Sunni collection by Abu `Isa Muhammad ibn `Isa at-Tirmidhi in his \"Jami` at-Tirmidhi\" and also quoted by Ibn Kathir in his \"Tafsir ibn Kathir\" of sura 55 it is stated:\n\nHowever, regarding the above statement Hafiz Salahuddin Yusuf has said: \"The narration, which claims that everyone would have seventy-two wives has a weak chain of narrators.\"\n\nIn the same collection of Sunni hadiths, however, the following is judged strong (\"hasan sahih\"):\n\"The Syro-Aramaic Reading of the Koran\" by the pseudonymous \"Christoph Luxenberg\" claims that the word is actually just the Syriac word for \"white\" and refers to white raisins.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4673561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4673561", "title": "Irene Angelina", "text": "Irene Angelina\n\nIrene Angelina (; c. 1181 – 27 August 1208), was a Byzantine princess member of the Angelos dynasty and by her two marriages Queen of Sicily in 1193 and Queen of Germany from 1198 to 1208.\n\nShe was the second daughter of Byzantine emperor Isaac II Angelos and his first wife, an unknown Palaiologina? who became nun with the name Irene.\n\nIrene was born in Constantinople. Her father Isaac II inaugurated his reign with a decisive victory over the Norman invaders on the Balkans in the 1185 Battle of Demetritzes. In 1193 he and King Tancred of Sicily arranged Irene's marriage with Tancred's eldest son, Roger. Roger was declared co-king, but died on 24 December 1193, shortly before his father's death on 20 February 1194. Sicily was claimed by Tancred's aunt Constance and her husband, Emperor Henry VI. After he had conquered the Sicilian kingdom, Irene was captured on 29 December 1194 and was married on 25 May 1197 to Henry's younger brother, Duke Philip of Swabia. In Germany, she was renamed Maria.\n\nAfter the Emperor had died on September 28, Philip was elected King of the Romans in Mühlhausen on 8 March 1198. Queen Irene's father, who had been deposed in 1195, urged her to get Philip's support for his reinstatement; her brother, Alexius, subsequently spent some time at Philip's court during the preparations for the Fourth Crusade. She thus had an early influence on the eventual diversion of the Crusade to Constantinople in 1204. Rivalled by the Welf scion Otto IV, Philip was able to consolidate his rule over the German kingdom. On 21 June 1208, he was killed by the Bavarian Count Palatine Otto VIII of Wittelsbach, leaving Irene widowed a second time.\n\nAfter the murder of her husband, Irene - who was pregnant at the time - retired to Hohenstaufen Castle. There, two months later on 27 August 1208, she gave birth to another daughter (called Beatrix Posthuma). Both mother and child died shortly afterwards. She was buried in the family mausoleum in the Staufen proprietary monastery of Lorch Abbey, along with her daughter and sons. Her grave was destroyed and cannot be reconstructed.\n\nPhilip and Irene had six children, two sons (Reinald and Frederick) who died in infancy and four daughters:\n\nIn his poem on King Philip's Magdeburg Christmas celebrations, the minnesinger Walther von der Vogelweide described Irene as \"rose ane dorn, ein tube sunder gallen\" (Middle High German for \"rose without a thorn, a dove without gall\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4283350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4283350", "title": "Jagiełło Oak", "text": "Jagiełło Oak\n\nThe Jagiełło Oak is the most noted of the Białowieża Forest oaks. The tree was blown down in November 2, 1974, at which time it had a circumference of at breast height and a height of ; it had large branches and a well-developed crown. The fallen trunk can still be seen in the Białowieża National Park.\n\nKing Władysław II Jagiełło is said to have rested beneath the tree before the Battle of Grunwald in 1410 – however at its death the tree is thought to have been no more than 450 years old, which would mean it did not begin growing until around 1524.\n\n"}
{"id": "11286206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11286206", "title": "John Daverio", "text": "John Daverio\n\nJohn Joseph Daverio (October 19, 1954 – March 16, 2003) was a violinist, scholar, teacher and author, best known for his writings on the music of Robert Schumann and Johannes Brahms.\n\nDaverio was born in Sharon, Pennsylvania, the only son of Italian-American parents. He was a professor of music at Boston University; Daverio received the University's Metcalf Award for Excellence in Teaching.\n\nDaverio died under mysterious circumstances, drowning in the Charles River at the age of 48. It remains unclear whether his death was accident or suicide, though foul play has been ruled out. Some have noted an unfortunate irony in the manner of Daverio's death, as Robert Schumann attempted suicide in 1854 by throwing himself into the Rhine river, and Daverio was among the world's leading Schumann scholars.\n\nHis major works include \"Nineteenth-Century Music and the German Romantic Ideology\" (1993), \"Robert Schumann: Herald of a New Poetic Age\" (1997), and \"Crossing Paths: Schubert, Schumann, and Brahms\" (2002).\n"}
{"id": "14417212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417212", "title": "John Theophilus Jenkins", "text": "John Theophilus Jenkins\n\nJohn Theophilus Jenkins (January 1, 1829 – January 17, 1919) was a physician and political figure in Prince Edward Island. He represented Charlottetown in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island from 1873 to 1876 and Queen's County in the House of Commons of Canada from 1882 to 1883 and from 1884 to 1887 as a Liberal-Conservative member. He was the first native-born physician on Prince Edward Island.\n\nHe was born in Charlottetown, the son of Reverend J.C. Jenkins and Penelope Desbrisay who was the daughter of Theophilus Desbrisay. He was educated at the Central Academy in Charlottetown and at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London, England. Jenkins served as a surgeon in the Ottoman Army during the Crimean War. He was coroner and health officer for Charlottetown and married Jessie Esther, the daughter of Stephen Rice in 1856. His election to the House of Commons in 1882 was declared invalid after an appeal; Jenkins was elected to the same seat in an 1884 by-election after Frederick de St Croix Brecken resigned his seat to accept an appointment as postmaster for Charlottetown. He was elected to the provincial assembly in 5th Queens in an 1891 by-election held after Patrick Blake ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the House of Commons and served until 1893.\n\nJenkins also raised horses and owned a ranch in Western Canada. He died in Charlottetown at the age of 70.\n\nHis son Stephen Rice Jenkins was also a physician and served in the provincial assembly and his son Louis, a farmer, was a member of the provincial assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "4015641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4015641", "title": "Khachatur Abovian", "text": "Khachatur Abovian\n\nKhachatur Abovian (or Abovyan; ; October 15, 1809 is an Armenian writer and national public figure of the early 19th century who mysteriously vanished in 1848 and was eventually presumed dead. He is an educator, poet and an advocate of modernization. Reputed as the father of modern Armenian literature, he is best remembered for his novel \"Wounds of Armenia\". Written in 1841 and published posthumously in 1858, it was the first novel published in the modern Armenian language using Eastern Armenian based on the Yerevan dialect instead of Classical Armenian.\n\nAbovian was far ahead of his time and virtually none of his works was published during his lifetime. Only after the establishment of the Armenian SSR was Abovian accorded the recognition and stature he merited. Abovian is regarded as one of the foremost figures not just in Armenian literature but Armenian history at large. Abovian's influence on Western Armenian literature was not as strong as it was on Eastern Armenian, particularly in its formative years.\n\nAbovian was born in 1809 in the village of Kanaker, then part of the Qajar Persian Empire, and now a district of Yerevan, Armenia. Abovian's family were descendants of the Beglaryan \"melik\" family in Gulistan, one of five Armenian families who ruled around the current day region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The Abovian family held the position of \"tanuter\" (a hereditary lordship) in Kanaker; Abovian's uncle was the last \"tanuter\" of Kanaker. His aunt was the wife of Sahak Aghamalian, the last melik of Yerevan at the time of the Russian annexation in 1828. His social origins and descent imbued him at an early age with a sense of responsibility to his people. He was born six years after his parents, Avetik and Takuhi, married. He had a brother, Garabed, who died at the age of three.\n\nAt age 10, Abovian was taken by his father to Echmiadzin to study for the priesthood. He dropped out after five years and moved to Tiflis in 1822 to study Armenian studies and languages at the Nersisyan School under the guidance of Harutiun Alamdarian. Abovian graduated in 1826 and began preparing to move to Venice to further his education. However, the outbreak of the Russo-Persian War (1826–28) curtailed his plans. For the following three years he taught briefly at Sanahin and then worked for Catholicos Yeprem of Armenia as his clerk and translator. While working for the Catholicos, the twenty-year-old Abovian met many notable foreigners, including the diplomat and playwright Alexandr Griboyedov, who was stuck in Echmiadzin en route to Tabriz in September 1828. Griboyedov's weekly \"Tifliskiye Vedemosti\" became the first paper to publish an article on Abovian.\n\nThe turning point in Abovian's life was the arrival of Friedrich Parrot in Armenia in September 1829, a professor of natural philosophy from the University of Dorpat in Livonia (in present-day Tartu, Estonia). Parrot traveled to Armenia to climb Mount Ararat to conduct geological studies and required a local guide and a translator for the expedition. The Catholicos assigned Abovian to these tasks. With Abovian's assistance, Parrot became the first explorer in modern times to reach the summit of Mount Ararat. The project received full approval from the emperor Nicholas I, who provided the expedition with a military escort.\nAbovian and Parrot crossed the Arax River into the district of Surmali and headed to the Armenian village of Akhuri situated on the northern slope of Ararat above sea level. Following the advice of Harutiun Alamdarian of Tiflis, they set up base camp at the Monastery of St. Hakob some higher, at an elevation of . Abovian was one of the last travelers to visit Akhuri and the monastery before a disastrous earthquake completely buried both in May 1840. Their first attempt to climb the mountain, using the northeast slope, failed as a result of lack of warm clothing.\n\nSix days later, on the advice of Stepan Khojiants, the village chief of Akhuri, the ascent was attempted from the northwest side. After reaching an elevation of , they turned back because they did not reach the summit before sundown. They reached the summit on their third attempt at 3:15 p.m. on October 9, 1829. Abovian dug a hole in the ice and erected a wooden cross facing north. Abovian picked up a chunk of ice from the summit and carried it down with him in a bottle, considering the water holy. On November 8, Parrot and Abovian climbed up Lesser Ararat. Years later, in 1845, the German mineralogist Otto Wilhelm Hermann von Abich climbed Ararat with Abovian. Abovian's third and last ascent of Ararat was with the Englishman Henry Danby Seymour in 1846.\n\nImpressed with Abovian's thirst for knowledge, Parrot arranged for a Russian state scholarship for Abovian to study at the University of Dorpat in 1830. He entered the university directly without additional preparation and studied in the Philosophy faculty of the Philological-Historical department from September 3, 1830 until January 18, 1836. The years in Dorpat were very fruitful for Abovian who studied social and natural sciences, European literature and philosophy, and mastered German, Russian, French and Latin. At this time Abovian fell under the influence of German Romanticism. In addition, Abovian established numerous contacts with European intellectuals of the time. At the university he became friends with the sons of Nikolay Karamzin who studied with him. In 1834 Abovian visited his cousin Maria (daughter of melik Sahak Aghamalian) in St. Petersburg, then married to the Georgian Prince Alexander. Prior to graduation, Abovian learned his mother Takuhi had died.\n\nIn 1836 he returned home anxious to embark on a mission of enlightenment. Abovian's efforts were thwarted as he faced a growing and hostile reaction from the Armenian clergy as well as Tsarist officials, largely stemming from his opposition to dogmatism and formalism in the school system. Abovian was appointed as the supervisor of the Tiflis uyezd school and married a German woman named Emilia Looze (d. 1870) in 1839. In 1840 he was approached by English traveler Anne Lister, who was visiting Tiflis. She hoped that Abovian would guide her on another expedition to Mount Ararat which ultimately did not occur. He was dismissed from the school in 1843 and was transferred to the uyezd school in Yerevan where he encountered apathy and antagonism from his colleagues and the clergy.\n\nIn the summer of the same year, Abovian was visited by two German travellers. A Bavarian professor, Moritz Wagner, from the University of Munich, arrived in May and toured the Lake Sevan region with Abovian and thereafter corresponded with him on a regular basis. In July Abovian also accompanied Wagner on the first recorded ascent of Mount Aragats in Armenia.\n\nIn August, Abovian escorted the German Baron August von Haxthausen around the province. They visited the Abovian family home in Kanaker and attended a service at the Blue Mosque. They also visited a Yazidi encampment where they met the chief Timur Aga and exchanged pleasantries with a rider from Count Paskevich's guard. He became a trusted friend of the Yazidi community in Armenia, and when the chief returned with lavish gifts from a banquet in Tiflis organized by the viceroy of the Caucasus Mikhail Semyonovich Vorontsov in 1844, he organized a tribal feast and Abovian was invited to attend. In 1845 he applied for a position at the Catholicate of Echmiadzin but was not accepted. The following year, he became a contributor to Vorontsov's weekly newspaper, \"Kavkaz\", for which Abovian wrote three articles.\n\nOn April 14, 1848, Abovian left his home for an early morning walk, and was never seen again; his disappearance remains unresolved. His wife Emilia did not report him missing for a month. Their children, Vartan (1840–1896) and Zarmandukht (later known as Adelaide; 1843–1909), were ages eight and five, respectively, at the time of the disappearance.\n\nNumerous theories have been proposed attempting to explain his disappearance: that he committed suicide, was murdered by his Persian or Turkish enemies, or arrested and exiled to Siberia by the Special Corps of Gendarmes, among others. Given his love for his children and their young age, it is generally disregarded that Abovian committed suicide. Writer Axel Bakunts put forward the theory that Abovian was in Western Europe engulfed in the Revolutions of 1848.\n\nAbovian wrote novels, stories, descriptions, plays, scientific and artistic compositions, verses and fables. He was the first Armenian writer to compose literature for children.\n\nThe historical novel \"Wounds of Armenia\" (written in 1841, first published in 1858) was the first Armenian secular novel dedicated to the fate of the Armenian people and its struggle for liberation in the period of Russo-Persian war of 1826–1828. The novel dealt with the suffering of Armenians under Persian occupation. The basic concept of the novel was the assertion of feelings of national merit, patriotism and hatred of oppressors. These themes had a profound influence over wide layers of Armenian society. The hero, Agassi, personifies the freedom-loving national spirit and its will to fight against the foreign conquerors. \"Give away your life, but never give away your native lands\", is his motto. The story begins with an abduction of an Armenian girl by a band of thugs sent by the Persian sardar that triggers an uprising led by Agassi.\n\nAbovian saw in strengthening of the friendship of Russian and Armenian peoples a guarantee of the national, political and cultural revival of his native lands. However; when Abovian wrote the novel he was already disillusioned with Tsarist policies in Armenia, particularly with the implementation of \"Polozhenie\" (Statute) in 1836 which greatly reduced the political power of the Armenian Catholicos and the abolishment of the Armenian Oblast in 1840. In the novel, elements of romanticism and realism are interlaced while the narration is supplanted by lyrical retreats.\n\nAbovian's poetry was filled with satire best expressed in \"The wine jug\", in which he criticized Russian bureaucracy. \"Leisure entertainment\" was adapted by Abovian from notes he took in public gatherings. The work is a collection of fables in verse that chastise vice, injustice and moral degeneration. He wrote scientific and artistic non-fiction works such as the \"Discovery of America\" and \"Book of Stories\". Abovian translated to the Armenian language the works of Homer, Goethe, Friedrich Schiller, Nikolay Karamzin, I. A. Krylov and others. He continued promoting secular and comprehensive (mental, moral, working, physical) training, school accessibility, free education for the indigent and equal education of boys and girls. Pedagogical compositions of Abovian include the book for reading \"Introduction to education\" (1838), a textbook of Russian grammar and an Armenian-language novel \"History of Tigran, or a moral manual for the Armenian children\" (printed in 1941). He was the first Armenian to study scientific ethnography: the way of life and customs of the peasants of the native settlements around Kanaker, inhabitants of Yerevan, and gathered and studied Armenian and Kurdish folklore.\n\nAbovian's life is well remembered in Armenia. During the years in which Armenia was under Soviet rule, his pro-Russia stance was emphasized. Schools, streets, boulevards and parks were named after him. The village of Elar, located northeast of Yerevan, was named after him in 1961. Two years later, as the village's population grew larger, Abovyan was accorded with city status. His home in Kanaker was turned into a house-museum in 1939, and many of his original writings are preserved there.\n\nThe work Abovian accomplished in the field of education was remembered. Yerevan's State Pedagogic Institute was named after him. On February 28, 1964, a medal was named in his honour (Աբովյանի Անվան Մեդալ) and which was awarded to school teachers who showed exceptional abilities in teaching and education. Between 1948–84, five documentary films were produced in the Armenian SSR about the life and work of Abovian.\n\nThe 2011 documentary film \"Journey to Ararat\" on Parrot and Abovian's expedition to Mount Ararat was produced in Estonia by filmmaker Riho Västrik. It was screened at the Golden Apricot International Film Festival in Yerevan in 2013.\n\nTwo prominent statues of Abovian stand in Yerevan. The concept of the first statue dates back to 1908 when a number of Armenian intellectuals in Russian Armenia decided to commemorate the 60th anniversary of Abovian's disappearance and raise funds for a statue. These included Alexander Shirvanzade,\nHovhannes Tumanyan and Gevorg Bashinjagyan. By 1910 they had collected enough funds to order the statue. It was designed by M. Grigoryan and sculpted by Andreas Ter-Manukyan in Paris between 1910–13. The statue is high and made of bronze on a granite pedestal. As a result of a misunderstanding the statue was only delivered to Yerevan in 1925 and first erected on Abovian street by the cinema \"Moscow\" in 1933 and then moved to the children's park on the banks of the Hrazdan river. In 1964, it found its permanent home by the Abovian house-museum in Kanaker. The second statue of Abovian in Yerevan was erected in Abovian square in 1950. The high bronze statue was designed by Gevork Tamanian (son of Alexander Tamanian) and sculpted by Suren Stepanyan.\n\nAbovian's portrait is one of the most exceptional exhibits of the Museum of Literature and Arts after Charents. It is an oil painting with a size of by . In 1938 Abovian's grandsons brought it to the museum. When Abovian's son Vardan returned to the Caucasus, he found the painting in a badly deteriorated condition. But by Vardan's request Armenian painter Gevorg Bashinjagyan restored the portrait. He cut worn-out edges, glued it to a hard paper and then filled the cracks with corresponding colors. The painter of the portrait was Ludwig von Maydell, from Dorpat University. He painted it in the fall of 1830, when Abovian was only 20 or 21 years old. This portrait is the only painting of Abovian made during his lifetime.\n\nNovels\nNon-fiction\n\nOther\nStories\n\nFables\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37876462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37876462", "title": "Levan Abashidze (died 1757)", "text": "Levan Abashidze (died 1757)\n\nLevan Abashidze (; died December 14, 1757) was a member of the Georgian princely family (\"tavadi\") of Abashidze, prominent in the politics of the kingdom of Imereti in the 18th century. He was the maternal grandfather of King Solomon I of Imereti, whom he fought and eventually met his death in the battle with Solomon's army at Khresili.\n\nLevan Abashidze was a son of Giorgi-Malakia Abashidze, who seized the crown of Imereti in 1702 and was deposed in 1707. Prince Levan rose in prominence early in the reign of the young king Alexander V of Imereti in the 1720s, when he vied for influence with Bezhan Dadiani, Prince of Mingrelia and the father-in-law of Alexander. During a series of political intrigues and clan feuds plaguing Imereti, in 1726, Levan was dispossessed by Alexander of the fortress of Shorapani, which was then granted to Levan's relative and adversary Zurab Abashidze. After the death of Bezhan in 1728, Levan Abashidze's influence grew and he married off his daughter Tamar to Alexander V as the king's second wife in 1732. Prince Levan fought on the side of Alexander against the powerful party of nobles led by Bezhan's son Otia Dadiani in a debilitating civil war, but he later fell afoul of his royal son-in-law and the two clashed with their forces in 1745.\n\nAfter Alexander V's death in 1751, Levan Abashidze opposed the accession of the royal heir, his own grandson Solomon I, who was briefly deposed in a coup which was supported even by the king's mother in 1752. Once Solomon regained the throne, he forced his mother and grandfather into exile and confiscated the Abashidze estates. In 1757, Levan, together with the influential Georgian grandee Rostom, Duke of Racha, joined an Ottoman army sent against Solomon. The royal army defeated the allies at Khresili, killing Levan Abashidze in battle.\n\n"}
{"id": "16760918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760918", "title": "Life Events and Difficulties Schedule", "text": "Life Events and Difficulties Schedule\n\nThe Life Events and Difficulties Schedule is a psychological measurement of the stressfulness of life events. It was created by psychologists George Brown and Tirril Harris in 1978. Instead of accumulating the stressfulness of different events, as was done in the Social Readjustment Rating Scale by Thomas Holmes and Richard Rahe, they looked at individual events in detail. The schedule is made up of an interview by which as much contextual information around the event as possible is collected. The event is then rated by \"blind\" raters using this contextual information.\n\nCritics of this method note the fact that the impact of the independent variable, the event itself, is measured by evaluating it using mediating and moderating variables.\n\nThe Life Events and Difficulties Schedule proved a powerful instrument to predict changes in neuroticism.\n"}
{"id": "46366169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46366169", "title": "List of people killed or wounded in the 20 July plot", "text": "List of people killed or wounded in the 20 July plot\n\nOn 22 June 1944, the Soviet Armed Forces launched a massive attack against the German forces based in Belorussia, which were made up of two strategic army groups known as Army Group Centre. By mid July, Army Group Centre had lost no fewer than 250,000 men in less than a month of fighting, making the German position close to hopeless.\n\nIn deciding what to do, a series of military conferences were scheduled at the Wolf's Lair headquarters in East Prussia. On 20 July, Adolf Hitler and his top military commanders entered the briefing hut of the headquarters, as the usual bombproof room, with no windows and thick walls of solid concrete, was considered \"unbearably hot\". In attendance was Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg, who had lost an eye, his right hand and half his left in action during the North African theatre. Undetected by Hitler's ring of bodyguards, Stauffenberg carried a British-made bomb in his briefcase. His plan was to get as close as possible to Hitler, leave the briefcase nearby, and then make an excuse to quickly leave the conference by car with his adjutant and fellow conspirator Werner von Haeften. This was part of a larger planned coup d'état led by a group of army officers who were appalled by the way Hitler was leading Germany. Everything proceeded according to plan until the bomb exploded, as Stauffenberg walked towards his car, earlier than anticipated. When the explosion tore through the hut, Stauffenberg was thoroughly convinced that no one in the room could possibly have survived. Unbeknownst to Stauffenberg, Colonel Heinz Brandt had moved the bomb-containing briefcase further away from Hitler, placing it behind a solid wooden table leg, as it was in his way. Hitler survived with only minor injuries, as did most of the others present, although three officers, including Brandt, and a stenographer were killed.\n\nAlthough strictly against security doctrines imposed at the Wolf's Lair, Stauffenberg and Haeften were allowed to pass through all three checkpoints and proceed to the airport, succeeding in getting away before clarity could be established back at the now completely demolished briefing hut. In the last hours of 20 July, Stauffenberg, Haeften, and several other plotters, were arrested and summarily condemned to death. The executions were carried out by soldiers under Major Otto Remer early on the morning of 21 July.\n\nFollowing the assassination attempt Hitler came to believe that the Wehrmacht leadership could not be trusted; he launched a purge of the officer corps and also used the shock of the attack to round up all the surviving members of the old opposition in the Reichstag. At the same time, those officers who had been injured or killed by the bomb were awarded the 20 July Wound Badge and hailed as heroes. General Günther Korten, General Rudolf Schmundt, Colonel Heinz Brandt and stenographer Heinz Berger were given a state funeral with a eulogy delivered by Vice-Chancellor Hermann Göring.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20790840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20790840", "title": "MV Empire Albany", "text": "MV Empire Albany\n\nEmpire Albany was a 306-ton Coaster which was built in 1944. She was renamed \"Albany\" in 1946 and disappeared on a voyage between Port Talbot and Rosslare in 1946.\n\n\"Empire Albany\" was built by Richards Ironworks Ltd, Lowestoft as yard number 337. She was launched on 3 October 1944 and completed in December 1944. \"Empire Airman\" was owned by the Ministry of War Transport and operated under the management of the J Fisher & Sons Ltd.\n\nIn 1946, \"Empire Albany\" was sold to Mrs P Dowds, Ireland and renamed \"Albany\". On 20 November 1946, \"Albany\" departed Port Talbot bound for Rosslare, but did not arrive. \"Albany\" was carrying a cargo of coal. Two ship's boats and the name board from \"Albany\" were washed up near St David's Head on 22 November.\n\nOfficial numbers were a forerunner to IMO Numbers.\n\n\"Empire Airman\" had the Official Number 166695 on Lloyd's Register and used the Code Letters MPBM\n"}
{"id": "39032104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39032104", "title": "Michael Norgrove", "text": "Michael Norgrove\n\nMichael Norgrove (9 January 1981 – 6 April 2013) was a British professional boxer from Woodford Green, London. Nicknamed the \"Zambezi Hitman\", at the time of his death Norgrove had an unbeaten professional record. His death occurred several days after he was taken ill during a boxing match in London, and marked the United Kingdom's first post-match boxing fatality of the 21st century. Norgrove's death reopened the debate as to the safety of boxing as a sport.\n\nBorn in Kabwe, Norgrove was the son of a British expatriate who worked for Zambian Railways. The family left Zambia at the end of his father's contract when Norgrove was seven, and moved first to Australia, then later to Manchester in England.\n\nIn boxing Norgrove competed at light-middleweight level, and entered the sport at a relatively late age. He was known as the \"Zambesi Hitman\". As an amateur he participated in white-collar fights before boxing at London's Repton Club in the East End. There he took part in the Amateur Boxing Association's Novice Championship, winning the London title, and competing nationally in 2009. He turned professional in 2010. He was also a contemporary and former sparring partner of the one time European super-middleweight champion James DeGale.\n\nHaving successfully fought five bouts, he was taking part in his sixth fight (against Tom Bowen) when he was taken ill. It was his first professional fight following a two-year break. On 28 March 2013 he was competing at the historic Ring venue in Blackfriars, which was hosting its first professional boxing event for 73 years. During the fifth round of a six-round fight, referee Jeff Hinds noticed Norgrove acting strangely and stopped the bout. Norgrove subsequently collapsed, and was treated at the scene before being taken to the Royal London Hospital, where he underwent emergency brain surgery for a cerebral haemorrhage. He died nine days later on 6 April following complications. It was the first post-match death in British boxing to occur in the 21st Century, the last being Scottish bantamweight James Murray who died in 1995 from head injuries sustained during a fight in Glasgow.\n\nThe result of Norgrove's final fight was recorded as \"no contest\", meaning he had an unbeaten record at the time of his death.\n\nPublic interest in boxing had experienced an upsurge since the 2012 Summer Olympics when Britain won five medals in the sport, and the UK Government's funding body, UK Sport had increased the amount of finance allocated to it, but Norgrove's death reopened the debate over its safety. Peter McCabe, chief executive of Headway, a charity that supports people with brain injuries, called for it to be banned. \"Every time a boxer gets into the ring, there is a significant risk that they may lose their life or sustain a devastating, life-changing brain injury [...] Until this sport is banned, more young lives will be tragically lost.\" However, Robert Smith, general secretary of the British Boxing Board of Control defended the sport's safety procedures. \"We are one of the strictest authorities in the world. This is an acute injury, this can happen any time. He had his medicals done, he had his brain scans done. There was nothing there of any concern whatsoever, else he wouldn't have been in the ring.\"\n\nMonica Harris, herself a boxer, and a close friend of Norgrove's announced her intention to quit the sport amid concerns for her own safety. \"I just don't feel it's right to carry on after this. It [safety] wasn't something I really worried about before. It wasn't an issue. This has just made it real, what we do when we get in the ring. I have a fight on Friday [12 April] which I've been training for since the beginning of the year, and I'm going to make this my last.\" Errol Johnson, who trained Tom Bowen, Norgrove's opponent in his final fights, said the boxer had been left devastated by the incident and was considering whether to continue in the sport.\n\nWriting for \"The Independent\", the sports journalist Steve Bunce expressed incomprehension at the death, but felt it was a tragic accident. \"In nearly 30 years I have never been as confused by a boxer's death or injury as I am by Norgrove's [...] Norgrove did nothing wrong, the sport did nothing wrong and there is nothing that could have been done to prevent this death. There is no hidden story attached to this tragedy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4197576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4197576", "title": "Mos Teutonicus", "text": "Mos Teutonicus\n\nMos Teutonicus (Latin: \"the Germanic custom\") was a postmortem funerary custom used in Europe in the Middle Ages as a means of transporting, and solemnly disposing of, the bodies of high status individuals. The process involved the removal of the flesh from the body, so that the bones of the deceased could be transported hygienically from distant lands back home.\n\nDuring the Second Crusade for the Holy Land it was not thought fit for aristocrats who fell in battle, or died of natural causes, to be buried away from their homeland in Muslim territory. The transportation of the whole body back from foreign parts over long distances was impractical and unhygienic due to decomposition, which was often accelerated by the climate.\n\nGerman aristocrats were particularly concerned that burial should not take place in the Holy Land, but rather on home soil. The Florentine chronicler Boncompagno was the first to connect the procedure specifically with German aristocrats, and coins the phrase \"mos Teutonicus\", meaning ‘the Germanic custom.’\n\nEnglish and French aristocrats generally preferred embalming to \"mos Teutonicus\", involving the burial of the entrails and heart in a separate location from the corpse. One of the advantages of \"mos Teutonicus\" was that it was relatively economical in comparison with embalming, and was more hygienic.\n\nCorpse preservation was very popular in mediaeval society. The decaying body was seen as a representative of something sinful and evil. Embalming and \"mos Teutonicus\", along with tomb effigies, were a way of giving the corpse an illusion of stasis and removed the uneasy image of putrification and decay.\n\nIn 1270, the body of King Louis IX, who died in Tunis, which was Muslim territory, was subject to the process of \"mos Teutonicus\" for its transportation back to France.\n\nThe process of \"mos Teutonicus\" began with the cadaver being dismembered to facilitate the next stage in the process, in which the body parts were boiled in water or wine for several hours. The boiling had the effect of separating the flesh from the bone. Any residual was scraped from the bones, leaving a completely clean skeleton. Both the flesh and internal organs could be buried immediately, or preserved with salt in the same manner as animal meat. The bones, and any preserved flesh, would then be transported back to the deceased's home for ceremonial interment.\n\nMediaeval society generally regarded entrails as ignoble and there was no great solemnity attached to their disposal, especially among German aristocrats.\n\nAlthough the Church had a high regard for the practice, Pope Boniface VIII was known to have an especial repugnance of \"mos Teutonicus\" because of his ideal of bodily integrity. In his bull of 1300, \"De Sepulturis\", Boniface forbade the practice. The papal bull issued which banned this practice was often misinterpreted as prohibition against human dissection. This probably hindered the research of some anatomists as they feared repercussions and punishment as a result of medical autopsies but \"De Sepulturis\" only prohibited the act of \"mos Teutonicus,\" not dissection in general.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50938400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50938400", "title": "Murder of Dora Bloch", "text": "Murder of Dora Bloch\n\nIn June 1976, Dora Bloch (), a dual Israeli-British citizen, was a hostage on Air France Flight 139 from Tel Aviv to Paris, which was hijacked after a stopover in Athens and rerouted to Entebbe, Uganda. Bloch was taken ill on the plane and was taken to a hospital in Kampala; she was not rescued with the other hostages during Operation Entebbe, but went missing from the hospital. Her disappearance led to Britain cutting diplomatic ties with Uganda. Her body was discovered in 1979 in a sugar plantation near the capital. In February 2007, declassified British documents confirmed that she was killed on the order of Idi Amin.\n\nDora Feinberg was born in Jaffa, then a part of the Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem, Ottoman Empire and now a part of Israel. Her father, Joseph Feinberg, was among the founders of the Jewish agricultural settlement of Rishon LeZion. After her father's death, she was raised by an uncle in Egypt. She moved to Jerusalem as an adult. In 1925 she married Aharon Bloch, a naturalised citizen of the United Kingdom, which gave her British citizenship. They had three sons. She spoke Hebrew, Arabic, Russian, German, Italian, and English. In 1976 she was a grandmother and a widow living in Tel Aviv.\n\nOn 27 June 1976, Bloch, aged 74, was on Air France Flight 139, an Airbus A300 plane. She was travelling to New York City for her youngest son Daniel's wedding. The flight was hijacked by terrorists after a stopover in Athens and was redirected to Entebbe, Uganda. With her fluency in languages, Bloch served as an interpreter between the hostages and hijackers. Bloch's son, Ilan Hartuv, with whom she had been travelling, was released during the subsequent Operation Entebbe counter-terrorist hostage-rescue mission.\n\nBloch was taken ill on the plane and was transferred to a hospital in Kampala. She is believed to have choked on food, and Foreign and Commonwealth Office papers say that she was also being treated for leg ulcers while at the hospital. During her hospital stay, she was visited by James Hennessy, the then-High Commissioner of the United Kingdom to Uganda.\n\nHenry Kyemba, then Uganda's Minister of Health, said that he had allowed Bloch to stay in hospital for an extra night before being returned to the other hostages. However, she disappeared from her hospital bed, and on 13 July, MP Ted Rowlands said that she was presumed dead. Kyemba later said that Bloch had been dragged from her hospital bed and murdered by members of the Ugandan Army loyal to Idi Amin. The policeman guarding Bloch was also killed. A suggested motive for her killing was retaliation for the deaths of 50 Ugandan soldiers during Operation Entebbe.\n\nOn 28 July 1976, Britain cut all diplomatic ties with Uganda as a result of Bloch's disappearance. It was the first time in 30 years that Britain had severed ties with a Commonwealth country.\n\nBloch's body was discovered in 1979 in a sugar plantation around from Kampala. Visual identification was precluded because her face was badly burned, but the corpse showed signs of a leg ulcer. Bloch was given an Israeli state funeral and was buried at Har HaMenuchot.\n\nDeclassified British documents released in February 2007 confirmed that Bloch had been killed on Idi Amin's orders. According to the documents, a Ugandan citizen told the British High Commissioner in Kampala that Bloch had been shot and her body deposited into the trunk of a car with Ugandan intelligence services number plates. The documents also showed that Britain continued to press Amin for information on Bloch's whereabouts, and that Amin continually denied knowledge of her fate.\n"}
{"id": "1979643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979643", "title": "Nikolai Dante", "text": "Nikolai Dante\n\nNikolai Dante was a comic book series published in the weekly British science fiction anthology \"2000 AD\" from March 1997 through July 2012.\n\n\"Nikolai Dante\" was created by writer Robbie Morrison and artist Simon Fraser. The lead character, Dante, first appeared in 1997 in Prog 1035, and he made his final appearance in 2012 in Prog 1791. Fraser was the primary artist for the first three years of the series, with support from artists including Charlie Adlard, Henry Flint, Chris Weston and Andy Clarke. From 2000, the majority of the stories were painted by John Burns, until Fraser returned to the character in October 2006, when the two artists began to alternate on different stories. Morrison is now working on a spin off series set in the same universe.\n\nIn the 27th century after a resurgent Imperial Russia has seized control of Earth and an interstellar domain, Dante, a swashbuckling young thief and ladies' man, discovers he is an illegitimate scion of the Romanov Dynasty, aristocratic rivals to the Tsar. Dante's Romanov genes bond him with a sentient \"Weapons Crest,\" a biological weapon which gives superhuman abilities—in Dante's case, the ability to extend bio-blades from his hands and hack into computer systems. He outrages aristocratic society and enjoys a turbulent relationship with Tsarina Jena. Dmitri, the Romanov patriarch and bitter enemy of the Tsar, tries to mold Dante into an aristocrat and killer worthy of the Romanov name.\n\nDmitri's underhanded political maneuvering prompts his war between the Makarov and Romanov dynasties, despite Jena's and Dante's attempts to prevent it, and the lovers break off their burgeoning romance. The civil war rips the empire apart, and Dante is forced to commit many atrocities. Vladimir triumphs, Dmitri dies by his own hand, and the power of the Romanovs is broken. Dante, now the most wanted man in the empire, returns to thieving, joining his mother, Katarina Dante, and her pirate crew. After spending time in the Pacific, he is forcibly recruited into the Imperial Service.\n\nIn his new role as Sword of the Tsar, Dante works against everything he once held dear, though he secretly abuses his position in order to plot against his employer as he begins to build a secret army. A massacre in the oppressed state of Amerika prompts Dante to try to kill the tsar. Imprisoned and tortured, Dante escapes from jail with the help of Jena, and the two renew their relationship and raise an army of thieves and whores to win a revolutionary war against the tsar. Tsar Vladimir is put on trial for his crimes and Dante proposes to Jena. Their happiness is cut short by the return of Dmitri Romanov.\n\nDmitri embarks on a rampage, murdering several of Dante's close allies, capturing Jena and destroying Dante's weapons crest. He tightens his grip on the empire, planning to marry Jena and execute Vladimir on their wedding day, Dante fights the same war against a different enemy. On the day of Jena's forced wedding to Dmitri, Dante leads his army to a second, final triumph that leaves Dmitri dead and a new era of peace and prosperity set to begin.\n\n\nThe Romanovs are one of the most powerful dynasties in Russia, descended directly from Peter the Great, and rivalling the Makarovs in influence and military power. The main sources of the family's power are its \"Weapons Crests,\" cybernetic symbiots from another dimension, which provide their bearers with incredible powers. The crests were designed to only bond with the DNA of the Romanov family.\n\n\n\nDuring the war, Dante is given command of a regiment raised in his own fiefdom, Rudinshtein. Initially made up of regular soldiers, the regiment is eventually supplemented by troops drawn from penal military units.\n\n\n\nBritish computer games company and comic book publisher Rebellion Developments collected the entire saga into a series of trade paperbacks.\n\n\nIn February 2017 a one off new story was published (set during the series early years) in the comic's 40th anniversary special issue:\n\n\nA number of Nikolai Dante novels have been written by David Bishop and published by Black Flame. Each is a new Dante story, set in between events depicted by the comic serials. The first novel, \"The Strangelove Gambit,\" details Dante's misadventures as a tutor in a boarding school for young ladies that hides a deadly secret. In the second, \"Imperial Black,\" Dante is forced to seek out an ancient citadel on the roof of the world. The final Dante novel to date, \"Honour Be Damned,\" is a romp set in future Britain that spoofs \"The 39 Steps\". All of the novels are currently out of print, but E-book editions are available.\n\nSo far they include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15718985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15718985", "title": "Non-Fatal Offences Against the Person Act 1997", "text": "Non-Fatal Offences Against the Person Act 1997\n\nThe Non-Fatal Offences against the Person Act 1997 is an Act of the Oireachtas which virtually codified the criminal law on offences against the person in the Republic of Ireland. The Act replaced the greater part of the Offences against the Person Act 1861, scrapping such concepts as actual bodily harm and grievous bodily harm, and recognised the use of modern technology as a weapon:\n\nThe Act also made it an offence to use a syringe as a weapon, particularly where it is used to make the victim \"...believe that he or she may become infected with disease\".\n\nOffences Against the Person Act\n\n"}
{"id": "21054832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21054832", "title": "Paleoworld", "text": "Paleoworld\n\nPaleoworld is an American documentary television series that aired on The Learning Channel from 1994 to 1997. The series focuses on paleontology and comprised 50 half-hour episodes. It was the first television series dedicated to paleontology that spanned multiple seasons. The series is now owned by the Discovery Channel, along with other documentaries such as \"Beyond T. rex\" (1997), \"When Dinosaurs Roamed America\" (2001), \"Valley of the T. rex\" (2001), and \"Dinosaur Planet\" (2003).\n\n\"Paleoworld\" never returned for a fifth season. However, TLC released a new series about dinosaurs the following year (1998) as a spin-off to the series, \"When Dinosaurs Ruled\" (called \"Jurassica\" in some countries).\n\nSeason 1 (1994) featured a smooth style and was narrated by Ben Gazzara. This series had lots of musical scenes, and some consider it to be an extremely calm and relaxing show. It also uses much more Paleoart than later series. Season 2 (1995) and Season 3 (1996) lost the musical element (as well as changing narrators), which resulted in a more conventional-style nature documentary. Even so, Seasons 2 and 3 were still perceived as maintaining the quality standard. For Season 4 (1997), the series changed narrators again, and viewers felt the show suffered a drop in quality, shifting from being musical and calm, to full-on and repetitive. Consequently, Season 4 was cancelled mid-season. The show never returned for a fifth season.\n\nMany DVDs and VHS tapes have been made with episodes from the series; however, most have been discontinued and are no longer available to purchase. Three DVDs of \"Paleoworld\" with five episodes on each were released in Australia in 2002, and \na five-disc set with 15 episodes from the series was released in the US and Canada. The three-disc set was also re-released in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1127548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127548", "title": "Passive-aggressive behavior", "text": "Passive-aggressive behavior\n\nPassive-aggressive behavior is characterized by indirect resistance to the demands of others and an avoidance of direct confrontation.\n\nThe Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders revision IV (DSM-IV) describes passive-aggressive personality disorder as a \"pervasive pattern of negativistic attitudes and passive resistance to demands for adequate performance in social and occupational situations.\"\n\nPassive-aggressiveness may not be necessarily a personality disorder. Personality disorder includes deviation in affectivity, cognition, control over impulses and need for gratification, ways of perceiving and thinking, and inflexible, maladaptive, or otherwise dysfunctional behaviour. There must be personal distress attributable to such behaviour. Deviation must be stable and of long duration.\n\nIn psychology, passive-aggressive behavior is characterized by a habitual pattern of non-active resistance to expected work requirements, opposition, sullenness, stubbornness, and negative attitudes in response to requirements for normal performance levels expected by others. Most frequently it occurs in the workplace, where resistance is exhibited by indirect behaviors as procrastination, forgetfulness, and purposeful inefficiency, especially in reaction to demands by authority figures, but it can also occur in interpersonal contexts.\n\nAnother source characterizes passive-aggressive behavior as: \"a personality trait marked by a pervasive pattern of negative attitudes and characterized by passive, sometimes obstructionist resistance to complying with expectations in interpersonal or occupational situations. Behaviors: learned helplessness, procrastination, stubbornness, resentment, sullenness, or deliberate/repeated failure to accomplish requested tasks for which one is (often explicitly) responsible\". Other examples of passive-aggressive behavior might include avoiding direct or clear communication, evading problems, fear of intimacy or competition, making excuses, blaming others, obstructionism, \"playing the victim\", feigning compliance with requests, sarcasm, backhanded compliments, and hiding anger.\n\nIn conflict theory, passive-aggressive behavior can resemble a behavior better described as catty, as it consists of deliberate, active, but carefully veiled hostile acts which are distinctively different in character from the non-assertive style of passive resistance.\n\nPassive-aggressive behavior from workers and managers is damaging to team unity and productivity. In the ad for Warner's online ebook, it says: \"The worst case of passive-aggressive behavior involves destructive attitudes such as negativity, sullenness, resentment, procrastination, 'forgetting' to do something, chronic lateness, and intentional inefficiency.\" If this behavior is ignored it could result in decreased office efficiency and frustration among workers. If managers are passive-aggressive in their behavior, it can end up stifling team creativity. De Angelis says, \"It would actually make perfect sense that those promoted to leadership positions might often be those who on the surface appear to be agreeable, diplomatic and supportive, yet who are actually dishonest, backstabbing saboteurs behind the scenes.\"\n\nPassive-aggressive behavior was first defined clinically by Colonel William Menninger during World War II in the context of men's reaction to military compliance. Menninger described soldiers who were not openly defiant but expressed their aggressiveness \"by passive measures, such as pouting, stubbornness, procrastination, inefficiency, and passive obstructionism\" due to what Menninger saw as an \"immaturity\" and a reaction to \"routine military stress\".\n\nAccording to some psychoanalytic views, noncompliance is not indicative of true passive-aggressive behavior, which may instead be defined as the manifestation of emotions that have been repressed based on a self-imposed need for acceptance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14897493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14897493", "title": "Peter Adolphus McIntyre", "text": "Peter Adolphus McIntyre\n\nPeter Adolphus McIntyre (July 19, 1840 – July 16, 1910) was a Canadian politician, public servant, physician and coroner.\n\nBorn at Peterville in Kings County, Prince Edward Island, McIntyre's paternal grandfather came to Canada from Scotland around 1785 and settled at Cable Head, PEI. McIntyre's great-grandfather on his mother's side fought under General Wolfe at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham in 1759.\n\nMcIntyre was educated at the Quebec Seminary, Laval University and McGill University where he earned his medical degree in 1867. He returned to Prince Edward Island to begin his practice. He served as Kings County coroner for several years.\n\nIn 1872 he was appointed one of the commissioners overlooking the construction of the Prince Edward Island Railway and was railway commander.\n\nFollowing Prince Edward Island's entry into Canadian confederation which occurred, in part, as a result of the debt incurred by the colony for the railway's construction, McIntyre was elected in the 1874 federal election to the House of Commons of Canada as a Liberal Member of Parliament for Kings County. He was defeated in the 1878 federal election but regained his seat in 1882 and was re-elected in 1887. After being defeated in the next two elections, McIntyre was appointed the seventh Lieutenant Governor of Prince Edward Island by the Laurier government in 1899. He served in office until 1904 and died six years later in Souris, P.E.I.\n"}
{"id": "6614349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6614349", "title": "Plant reproduction", "text": "Plant reproduction\n\nReproduction means producing offspring for the survival of the species.\nPlant reproduction is the production of new individuals or offspring in plants, which can be accomplished by sexual or asexual reproduction. Sexual reproduction produces offspring by the fusion of gametes, resulting in offspring genetically different from the parent or parents. Asexual reproduction produces new individuals without the fusion of gametes, genetically identical to the parent plants and each other, except when mutations occur. In seed plants, the offspring can be packaged in a protective seed, which is used as an agent of dispersal.\n\nReproduction in which male and female gametes do not fuse, as they do in sexual reproduction.\nAsexual reproduction may occur through budding, fragmentation, fission, spore formation and vegetative propagation. Plants have two main types of asexual reproduction in which new plants are produced that are genetically identical clones of the parent individual. Vegetative reproduction invoves \na vegetative piece of the original plant (budding, tillering, etc.) and is distinguished from \"apomixis\", which is a replacement for sexual reproduction, and in some cases involves seeds. Apomixis occurs in many plant species and also in some non-plant organisms. For apomixis and similar processes in non-plant organisms, see parthenogenesis.\n\nNatural vegetative reproduction is mostly a process found in herbaceous and woody perennial plants, and typically involves structural modifications of the stem or roots and in a few species leaves. Most plant species that employ vegetative reproduction do so as a means to perennialize the plants, allowing them to survive from one season to the next and often facilitating their expansion in size. A plant that persists in a location through vegetative reproduction of individuals constitutes a clonal colony; a single ramet, or apparent individual, of a clonal colony is genetically identical to all others in the same colony. The distance that a plant can move during vegetative reproduction is limited, though some plants can produce ramets from branching rhizomes or stolons that cover a wide area, often in only a few growing seasons. In a sense, this process is not one of reproduction but one of survival and expansion of biomass of the individual. When an individual organism increases in size via cell multiplication and remains intact, the process is called vegetative growth. However, in vegetative reproduction, the new plants that result are new individuals in almost every respect except genetic. A major disadvantage to vegetative reproduction, is the transmission of pathogens from parent to offspring; it is uncommon for pathogens to be transmitted from the plant to its seeds (in sexual reproduction or in apomixis), though there are occasions when it occurs.\n\nSeeds generated by apomixis are a means of asexual reproduction, involving the formation and dispersal of seeds that do not originate from the fertilization of the embryos. Hawkweed (\"Hieracium\"), dandelion (\"Taraxacum\"), some Citrus (\"Citrus\") and Kentucky blue grass (\"Poa pratensis\") all use this form of asexual reproduction. Pseudogamy occurs in some plants that have apomictic seeds, where pollination is often needed to initiate embryo growth, though the pollen contributes no genetic material to the developing offspring. Other forms of apomixis occur in plants also, including the generation of a plantlet in replacement of a seed or the generation of bulbils instead of flowers, where new cloned individuals are produced. Asexual reproduction is a type of reproduction where the offspring comes from one parent only, thus, inheriting the characteristics of the parent.\n\nA rhizome is a modified underground stem serving as an organ of vegetative reproduction; the growing tips of the rhizome can separate as new plants, e.g., polypody, iris, couch grass and nettles.\n\nProstrate aerial stems, called runners or stolons, are important vegetative reproduction organs in some species, such as the strawberry, numerous grasses, and some ferns.\n\nAdventitious buds form on roots near the ground surface, on damaged stems (as on the stumps of cut trees), or on old roots. These develop into above-ground stems and leaves. A form of budding called suckering is the reproduction or regeneration of a plant by shoots that arise from an existing root system. Species that characteristically produce suckers include Elm (\"Ulmus\"), Dandelion (\"Taraxacum\"), and many members of the Rose family such as \"Rosa\" and \"Rubus\".\n\nPlants like onion (\"Allium cepa\"), hyacinth (\"Hyacinth\"), narcissus (\"Narcissus\") and tulips (\"Tulipa\") reproduce by dividing their underground bulbs into more bulbs. Other plants like potatoes (\"Solanum tuberosum\") and dahlia (\"Dahlia\") reproduce by a similar method involving underground tubers. Gladioli and crocuses (\"Crocus\") reproduce in a similar way with corms.\n\nThe most common form of plant reproduction utilized by people is seeds, but a number of asexual methods are utilized which are usually enhancements of natural processes, including: cutting, grafting, budding, layering, division, sectioning of rhizomes, roots, tubers, bulbs, stolons, tillers, etc., and artificial propagation by laboratory tissue cloning. Asexual methods are most often used to propagate cultivars with individual desirable characteristics that do not come true from seed. Fruit tree propagation is frequently performed by budding or grafting desirable cultivars (clones), onto rootstocks that are also clones, propagated by stooling.\n\nIn horticulture, a \"cutting\" is a branch that has been cut off from a mother plant below an internode and then rooted, often with the help of a rooting liquid or powder containing hormones. When a full root has formed and leaves begin to sprout anew, the clone is a self-sufficient plant, genetically identical to the mother plant.\n\nExamples include cuttings from the stems of blackberries (\"Rubus occidentalis\"), African violets (\"Saintpaulia\"), verbenas (\"Verbena\") to produce new plants. A related use of cuttings is grafting, where a stem or bud is joined onto a different stem. Nurseries offer for sale trees with grafted stems that can produce four or more varieties of related fruits, including apples. The most common usage of grafting is the propagation of cultivars onto already rooted plants, sometimes the rootstock is used to dwarf the plants or protect them from root damaging pathogens.\n\nSince vegetatively propagated plants are clones, they are important tools in plant research. When a clone is grown in various conditions, differences in growth can be ascribed to environmental effects instead of genetic differences.\n\nSexual reproduction involves two fundamental processes: meiosis, which rearranges the genes and reduces the number of chromosomes, and fertilization, which restores the chromosome to a complete diploid number. In between these two processes, different types of plants and algae vary, but many of them, including all land plants, undergo alternation of generations, with two different multicellular structures (phases), a gametophyte and a sporophyte. The evolutionary origin and adaptive significance of sexual reproduction are discussed in the pages “Evolution of sexual reproduction” and “Origin and function of meiosis.”\n\nThe gametophyte is the multicellular structure (plant) that is haploid, containing a single set of chromosomes in each cell. The gametophyte produces male or female gametes (or both), by a process of cell division called meiosis. In vascular plants with separate gametophytes, female gametophytes are known as mega gametophytes (mega=large, they produce the large egg cells) and the male gametophytes are called micro gametophytes (micro=small, they produce the small sperm cells).\n\nThe fusion of male and female gametes (fertilization) produces a diploid zygote, which develops by mitotic cell divisions into a multicellular sporophyte.\n\nThe mature sporophyte produces spores by meiosis, sometimes referred to as \"reduction division\" because the chromosome pairs are separated once again to form single sets.\n\nIn mosses and liverworts the gametophyte is relatively large, and the sporophyte is a much smaller structure that is never separated from the gametophyte. In ferns, gymnosperms, and flowering plants (angiosperms), the gametophytes are relatively small and the sporophyte is much larger. In gymnosperms and flowering plants the mega gametophyte is contained within the ovule (that may develop into a seed) and the micro gametophyte is contained within a pollen grain.\n\nUnlike animals, plants are immobile, and cannot seek out sexual partners for reproduction. In the evolution of early plants, abiotic means, including water and wind, transported sperm for reproduction. The first plants were aquatic, as described in the page \"Evolutionary history of plants\", and released sperm freely into the water to be carried with the currents. Primitive land plants like liverworts and mosses had motile sperm that swam in a thin film of water or were splashed in water droplets from the male reproduction organs onto the female organs. As taller and more complex plants evolved, modifications in the alternation of generations evolved; in the Paleozoic era progymnosperms reproduced by using spores dispersed on the wind. The seed plants including seed ferns, conifers and cordaites, which were all gymnosperms, evolved 350 million years ago; they had pollen grains that contained the male gametes for protection of the sperm during the process of transfer from the male to female parts. It is believed that insects fed on the pollen, and plants thus evolved to use insects to actively carry pollen from one plant to the next. Seed producing plants, which include the angiosperms and the gymnosperms, have heteromorphic alternation of generations with large sporophytes containing much reduced gametophytes. Angiosperms have distinctive reproductive organs called flowers, with carpels, and the female gametophyte is greatly reduced to a female embryo sac, with as few as eight cells. The male gametophyte consists of the pollen grains. The sperm of seed plants are non-motile, except for two older groups of plants, the Cycadophyta and the Ginkgophyta, which have flagellated sperm.\n\nFlowering plants are the dominant plant form on land and they reproduce by sexual and asexual means. Often their most distinguishing feature is their reproductive organs, commonly called flowers. Sexual reproduction in flowering plants involves the production of male and female gametes, the transfer of the male gametes to the female ovules in a process called pollination. After pollination occurs, fertilization happens and the ovules grow into seeds within a fruit. After the seeds are ready for dispersal, the fruit ripens and by various means the seeds are freed from the fruit and after varying amounts of time and under specific conditions the seeds germinate and grow into the next generation.\n\nThe anther produces male gametophytes which are pollen grains, which attach to the stigma on top of a carpel, in which the female gametophytes (inside ovules) are located. After the pollen tube grows through the carpel's style, the sperm from the pollen grain migrate into the ovule to fertilize the egg cell and central cell within the female gametophyte in a process termed double fertilization. The resulting zygote develops into an embryo, while the triploid endosperm (one sperm cell plus a binucleate female cell) and female tissues of the ovule give rise to the surrounding tissues in the developing seed. The ovary, which produced the female gametophyte(s), then grows into a fruit, which surrounds the seed(s). Plants may either self-pollinate or cross-pollinate.\n\nIn plants that use insects or other animals to move pollen from one flower to the next, plants have developed greatly modified flower parts to attract pollinators and to facilitate the movement of pollen from one flower to the insect and from the insect back to the next flower. Flowers of wind pollinated plants tend to lack petals and or sepals; typically large amounts of pollen are produced and pollination often occurs early in the growing season before leaves can interfere with the dispersal of the pollen. Many trees and all grasses and sedges are wind pollinated, as such they have no need for large fancy flowers.\n\nPlants have a number of different means to attract pollinators including colour, scent, heat, nectar glands, edible pollen and flower shape. Along with modifications involving the above structures two other conditions play a very important role in the sexual reproduction of flowering plants, the first is timing of flowering and the other is the size or number of flowers produced. Often plant species have a few large, very showy flowers while others produce many small flowers, often flowers are collected together into large inflorescences to maximize their visual effect, becoming more noticeable to passing pollinators. Flowers are attraction strategies and sexual expressions are functional strategies used to produce the next generation of plants, with pollinators and plants having co-evolved, often to some extraordinary degrees, very often rendering mutual benefit.\n\nThe largest family of flowering plants is the orchids (Orchidaceae), estimated by some specialists to include up to 35,000 species, which often have highly specialized flowers that attract particular insects for pollination. The stamens are modified to produce pollen in clusters called pollinia, which become attached to insects that crawl into the flower. The flower shapes may force insects to pass by the pollen, which is \"glued\" to the insect. Some orchids are even more highly specialized, with flower shapes that mimic the shape of insects to attract them to 'mate' with the flowers, a few even have scents that mimic insect pheromones.\n\nAnother large group of flowering plants is the Asteraceae or sunflower family with close to 22,000 species, which also have highly modified inflorescences that are flowers collected together in heads composed of a composite of individual flowers called florets. Heads with florets of one sex, when the flowers are pistillate or functionally staminate, or made up of all bisexual florets, are called homogamous and can include discoid and liguliflorous type heads. Some radiate heads may be homogamous too. Plants with heads that have florets of two or more sexual forms are called heterogamous and include radiate and disciform head forms, though some radiate heads may be heterogamous too.\n\nFerns typically produce large diploid sporophytes with rhizomes, roots and leaves; and on fertile leaves called sporangium, spores are produced. The spores are released and germinate to produce short, thin gametophytes that are typically heart shaped, small and green in color. The gametophytes or thallus, produce both motile sperm in the antheridia and egg cells in separate archegonia. After rains or when dew deposits a film of water, the motile sperm are splashed away from the antheridia, which are normally produced on the top side of the thallus, and swim in the film of water to the antheridia where they fertilize the egg. To promote out crossing or cross fertilization the sperm are released before the eggs are receptive of the sperm, making it more likely that the sperm will fertilize the eggs of different thallus. A zygote is formed after fertilization, which grows into a new sporophytic plant. The condition of having separate sporophyte and gametophyte plants is call alternation of generations. Other plants with similar reproductive means include the \"Psilotum\", \"Lycopodium\", \"Selaginella\" and \"Equisetum\".\n\nThe bryophytes, which include liverworts, hornworts and mosses, reproduce both sexually and vegetatively. The gametophyte is the most commonly known phase of the plant. All are small plants found growing in moist locations and like ferns, have motile sperm with flagella and need water to facilitate sexual reproduction. These plants start as a haploid spore that grows into the dominate form, which is a multicellular haploid body with leaf-like structures that photosynthesize. Haploid gametes are produced in antherida and archegonia by mitosis. The sperm released from the antheridia respond to chemicals released by ripe archegonia and swim to them in a film of water and fertilize the egg cells, thus producing zygotes that are diploid. The zygote divides by mitotic division and grows into a sporophyte that is diploid. The multicellular diploid sporophyte produces structures called spore capsules. The spore capsules produce spores by meiosis, and when ripe, the capsules burst open and the spores are released. Bryophytes show considerable variation in their breeding structures and the above is a basic outline. In some species each gametophyte is one sex while other species produce both antheridia and archegonia on the same gametophyte which is thus hermaphrodite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4496899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496899", "title": "Reproductive value (population genetics)", "text": "Reproductive value (population genetics)\n\nReproductive value (not to be confused with breeding value) is a concept in demography and population genetics that represents the discounted number of future female children that will be born to a woman of a specific age. Ronald Fisher first defined reproductive value in his 1930 book \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\" where he proposed that future offspring be discounted at the rate of growth of the population; this implies that sexually reproductive value measures the contribution of an individual of a given age to the future growth of the population.\n\nConsider a species with a life history table with survival and reproductive parameters given by formula_1 and formula_2, where\nand\n\nIn a population with a discrete set of age classes, Fisher's reproductive value is calculated as\nwhere formula_8 is the long-term population growth rate given by the dominant eigenvalue of the Leslie matrix. When age classes are continuous, \nwhere formula_10 is the \"intrinsic rate of increase\" or \"Malthusian growth rate\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24410331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24410331", "title": "Self-perceived quality-of-life scale", "text": "Self-perceived quality-of-life scale\n\nThe self-perceived quality-of-life scale is a psychological assessment instrument which is based on a comprehensive theory of the self-perceived quality of life (SPQL) and provides a multi-faceted measurement of health-related and non-health-related aspects of well-being. The scale has become an instrument of choice for monitoring quality of life in some clinical populations, for example, it was adopted by the Positively Sound network for women living with HIV.\n\nThe improvement of mental disorders may have an effect on multiple domains of an individual's life which could be captured only through a comprehensive measurement. For example, the treatment of a phobia may reduce fear (mental health index), which could lead to the improvement of social relations (social relations index) and, in turn, performance at work, resulting in an increase in salary (financial index). Hence, in order to detect all implications of a treatment (e.g., for a phobia), a comprehensive measurement across multiple domains of an individual's life is needed. The SPQL scale can provide such a comprehensive measurement.\n\nThe scale is designed in an electronic format. The software calculates scores automatically; this allows for advanced quantification methods. The automatic calculations and quantification methods allowed undertaking a comprehensive approach for assessing SPQL from multiple facets. A multi-facet approach, in turn, provided a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of mental health interventions (through pre- and post tests).\n\nThe scale emerged from synthesis of existing theories including: (a) subjective well-being, (b) developmental life-stages, (c) different categories of human needs, (d) quality of life, and (e) subjective evaluation processes. The scale consists of three axes: Subjective well-being, positive and negative affect, and fulfillment of needs. See a model diagram below.\n\nThe scale can (a) identify possible side effects of psychiatric or psychological interventions which could occur in multiple domains of an individual’s life, (b) detect the occurrence of relapses, (c) assist in evaluating the progress of recovery, (d) measure the effects of various non-normative positive and negative events (e.g., divorce, promotion at work, becoming a parent) on an individual’s life as a whole and trace the course of their development, (e) evaluate an individual’s SPQL throughout the lifespan, (f) predict depression, anxiety, and mood, and (g) assess the effectiveness of interventions intended to enhance well-being and improve quality of life on an individual level.\n\nThis scale could be used by individual mental health professionals to evaluate the progress of treatment. This is useful for clients as well because they themselves are able to compare their initial scores with scores after intervention. Because the scale is available online, clients are able to complete the questionnaire outside of the therapy sessions. The scale also could be used in medical settings to assess how medical treatment affects a patient’s life overall and in specific aspects over time, as well as allow detecting psychological side effects. The scale could be of use to insurers because it would help in evaluating the effectiveness of mental health interventions.\n\nIt is safe to postulate that all people want to have a good life. Although the meaning of “a good life” may vary from culture to culture and from individual to individual, this meaning revolves around the same aspects of life across cultures. What actually varies between cultures and individuals is the availability of certain aspects of a good life, the subjective significance people assign to these aspects, and the way people evaluate these aspects of a good life.\n\nEverything we do or do not do, wish or do not wish, and have or do not have has an explicit or an implicit relevance to how good or not good we perceive our lives to be. Because the preference for a good life over a bad life underlies all facets of our lives, understanding what constitutes and influences a good life on an individual level has a significant value for all people.\n\nDuring the past several decades researchers investigated the concept of “the good life” based on three theoretical approaches:\n\nThe comprehensive scale of the good life, the Self-Perceived Quality of Life (SPQL) scale, overcame the limitations of prior approaches by integrating measurements of SWB, QOL, and functionality on an individual level, and by utilizing innovative quantification methods. The scale focused on how individuals evaluate their lives and compare these measurements with the average good life of others. The SPQL scale includes well-being, emotions, and physical and mental health indices. The SPQL scale has implications for evaluating the effectiveness of a wide range of interventions intended to improve mental health and well-being.\n\nThe SPQL construct consists of three axes, each compounded from several variables:\n\nBecause fluctuations within SPQL are likely to occur over time, a single-occasion measurement will not provide a comprehensive assessment. In order to capture a more comprehensive picture of SPQL, the SWB variable (axis) was measured retrospectively throughout three major life stages of adult human development: Early-adulthood, mid-adulthood, and late-adulthood (see SPQL model diagram).\n\nAs people approach a life stage in their development, they face developmental tasks that they need to master in order for the transition to the next life stage to be successful. The cycle of transition from one life stage to another is marked by three phases:\nTo a lesser degree, cycles of transitions occur continually within major life stages on annual and even on daily bases.\n\nA curve of SWB throughout the lifespan can reflect the experience of an individual's good life. Ideally, all three SPQL axes should be evaluated for each life stage. However, this would make a questionnaire too long. Although the SPQL scale measures only one SPQL axis (SWB) for each life stage, the developed theoretical framework discusses the evaluation of all three SPQL axes throughout the major life stages. Thus, the framework can support the development of a next version of the scale that would accomplish this goal. Future research could explore possibilities for reducing the number of the evaluated scale items and include questions that will evaluate all three SPQL axes throughout the major life stages.\n\nParticipants' responses on the inventories for each of the three SPQL axes (see Appendixes) provided the data for the psychometric validation of the scale and for the quantitative analyses that allowed measuring the good life. The theoretical framework for the first two axes was based on the existing theories of SWB, positive affect and negative affect, and mood. The theoretical framework for the third axis was based on theories that conceptually differentiate between different categories of needs. Different categories of needs, in turn, are sorted into four general categories of needs composing the third axis. The measurement of an individual’s level of functionality across social, psychological, and health factors was integrated in the third axis. This integration was accomplished through evaluating the strength and fulfillment of an individual’s needs for optimal functioning across these factors.\n\nThe subjective well-being (SWB) baseline is maintained by psychological and biological homeostasis. Measurement of overall happiness determined the SWB baseline. A higher SWB baseline indicates a higher SPQL. People who have experienced more positive and less negative intense experiences during their lives (i.e., transient deviations), have a higher SPQL. Intense experiences were assessed through measuring the frequency and intensity of nonnormative transient subjective experiences of happiness/unhappiness that deviate from the SWB baseline throughout time.\n\nPeople who have experienced more positive and less negative subjective affective experiences (SAE) during their lives (i.e., transient deviations), have a higher SPQL. The average of positive and negative SAE was used to measure overall SAE.\n\nIndividuals with the same score on SWB can differ in their evaluations of standards of living even if their objective life circumstances are alike. Accordingly, their self-perceived QOL may vary. Hence, in order to capture a more accurate measurement of SPQL, the strength and degree of fulfillment of a wide range of human needs and preferences for life circumstances was evaluated. However, felt needs are not the only kind of needs that a person may have. If a need is satisfied it may not be felt as intensely as an unsatisfied need of lesser importance in terms of overall happiness. Thus, the strength with which a need is felt at a certain point in time does not necessarily indicate that it makes a greater contribution to the overall SPQL than other needs, which are felt less intensely or unfelt at all at that point in time because they are satisfied. Hence, the strength of individual preferences and needs was evaluated not only through questions such as “how important is fulfillment of this need to your overall happiness?” but also with questions such as “if this need were unfulfilled, how would it affect your overall happiness?”\n\nConceptual model for axis III fulfillment of needs. In order to measure fulfillment of needs, a broad range of human needs was sorted into four conceptually distinct categories that are (a) contingent on corresponding stages of cognitive and moral development, (b) constitute major components of self-concept, and (c) correspond to the neural activity in different clusters of anatomical brain regions. Because sometimes the same anatomical brain regions are involved in different ways in neural activity associated with the four categories of needs, implicated brain regions will be distinguished based on their dominance in related processes, and based on the chronological maturation of the dominant regions.\n\n\nBecause according to the SPQL theory an individual's motivations ensue from the idiosyncratic cluster of the four categories of needs, these four categories are proposed to compound an individual’s motivational framework (MF). In the following discussion, disparate preferences and needs will be referred to as motivational units (MU). Motivational units have two dimensions, importance of MU to the SPQL (strength) and the degree of fulfillment. The strength of a motivational unit (MU) was determined by evaluating the capacity for the fulfillment or unfulfillment of the MU to skew the SWB baseline.\n"}
{"id": "1305528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1305528", "title": "Shenzhou 7", "text": "Shenzhou 7\n\nShenzhou 7 () was the third human spaceflight mission of the Chinese space program. The mission, which included the first Chinese extra-vehicular activity (EVA) carried out by crew members Zhai Zhigang and Liu Boming, marked the commencement of the second phase of the Chinese government's Project 921.\n\nThe Shenzhou spacecraft carrying the three crew members was launched 25 September 2008, by a Long March 2F (CZ-2F) rocket which lifted off from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center at 21:10 CST. The mission lasted three days, after which the craft landed safely in Siziwang Banner in central Inner Mongolia on 28 September 2008, at 17:37 CST. The \"Shenzhou 7\" EVA made the Chinese space program the third to have conducted an EVA. EVAs had previously been conducted by the space programs of the Soviet Union (later Russia) and the United States.\n\nThe crew for Shenzhou 7 was announced on 17 September 2008.\nOf the back-up crew, only Chen Quan had not previously flown in space.\n\nThe Long March 2F rocket launched the Shenzhou 7 into an initial elliptical orbit of 200 x 330 kilometres inclined at 42.4 degrees on 25 September 2008. About seven hours later the spacecraft raised its orbit to a more circular orbit of 330 x 336 km. After three days in space, deorbit manoeuvres began on 28 September at 08:48, and the return module landed at 09:37 UTC at coordinates .\n\nChina has been congratulated by a number of foreign leaders for the successful completion of the mission, which marked a number of developments for China's space program, including several first-time achievements.\n\nThe Shenzhou 7 Mission won the 2009 Space Achievement Award from the \"Space Foundation\".\n\nShenzhou 7 was the first Chinese space mission to carry a three-person crew for several days and conduct a full operation. A total of six astronauts were trained, three to conduct the mission and three others to serve as a backup crew.\n\nOn 27 September, Zhai Zhigang, wearing a Chinese-developed Feitian space suit, conducted a 22-minute space walk, the first ever for a Chinese astronaut. Zhai slipped out of the orbital module in a head-first position at around 16:43 (0843 GMT) and wandered around the orbital module, retrieved experiment samples and waved the Chinese flag in space. The spacewalk lasted about 20 minutes, with Zhai returning to the orbital module at 17:00. The first space walk was limited in scope: cables were used to tie Zhai to the handrail outside the orbital module, and his moving route was restricted to areas near the exits. Liu Boming, wearing a Russian Orlan-M suit, stayed in the airlock in the orbital module to provide help if necessary. Liu also conducted an EVA, standing up at 08:58 UTC to hand Zhai a flag. The third astronaut, Jing Haipeng remained in the re-entry module to monitor the general situation of the spacecraft. By 09:00 UTC both astronauts were back inside and the hatch was closed. The space walk was broadcast live on Chinese media, and two cameras provided panoramic images.\n\nThe Feitian spacesuit is similar to the Orlan-M (known as \"Haiying\", 海鹰, in Chinese) in shape and volume and are designed for spacewalks of up to seven hours, providing oxygen and allowing for the excretion of bodily waste. According to Chinese media reports, spacesuit materials with such features as fire and radiation resistance were developed by several civilian corporations and national institutes. Each suit was reported to have cost 30 million RMB (about 4.4 million USD). Except for the gloves of the Feitian suit, the space suits were not brought back to earth.\n\nA fire alarm was reported to the control center at the beginning of the EVA, but it was confirmed to be a false alarm.\n\nScientists conducted a solid lubricant exposure experiment during the mission. A piece of equipment the size of a book was installed on the outside wall of the orbital module, and was later retrieved during the space walk, after having been exposed in space for more than 40 hours. The experiment was aimed to study a lubricant which will be used for space-based moving components in future space facilities.\n\nA miniaturized satellite was released during the mission on 27 September at 19:24, after Zhai returned to the spacecraft. The satellite was a cube about long, with a mass of ; it carried boost devices and two 150-megapixel stereo cameras. The satellite's tasks included testing the mini-satellite technology, observing and monitoring the spacecraft, and testing the tracking and approaching technology used for space rendezvous and docking.\n\nThe miniaturized satellite took photos and videos near the spacecraft, then maneuvered to about away from the spacecraft. After the return module separated from the spacecraft and re-entered the atmosphere, the satellite caught up to the orbiting spacecraft using a liquid ammonia engine, then continue to orbit around the spacecraft. The mini-satellite will work for about three months.\n\nChina launched its first-ever data relay satellite, called \"Tianlian I\" (天链一号), from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center on a Long March-3C carrier rocket on 25 April 2008. The Tianlian I satellite will be used to speed up communication between the Shenzhou 7 spacecraft and the ground stations, and to increase the amount of data that can be transferred to the ground. The Tianlian I satellite alone can cover 50 percent of the orbit of Shenzhou 7—whereas the Yuanwang space tracking ships, along with China's ten ground observation stations, have a coverage of only 12 percent—and thus will increase the total coverage to about 62 percent of the mission.\n\nThe Shenzhou 7 project consists of seven subsystems, with the Chinese military responsible for launching, recovering, crew, and tracking subsystems, China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation responsible for the carrier rocket and spacecraft itself, and the Chinese Academy of Sciences responsible for the payloads on board the spacecraft (other than the crew).\n\nA columniform water training pool of in diameter and in depth, located in China Astronaut Training Center, simulates the weightlessness experienced in space. A model of the Shenzhou orbital module has been used in the pool to train the crew for the space walk.\n\nSpecial attention has been paid to solving vibration problems that were encountered 120 seconds into the Shenzhou 5 mission. These vibrations were described by Shenzhou 5 astronaut Yang Liwei as hard to endure. Corrective measures were implemented for the Shenzhou 6 mission, but since then more improvements have been added to the carrier rocket, to the pipes of the second stage, and to more than thirty other parts of the spacecraft..\n\nThe Orbital module has been modified and its solar panels removed in order to allow for the EVA experiment. For this same reason, in contrast to previous Shenzhou missions, it will not remain in space after its separation with the departing crew in the Return module. Handrails have been added to the external wall of the Orbital module to allow the space walking astronaut to reach specific experiment areas.\n\nMore cameras have been installed on this spacecraft than on the Shenzhou 6 vessel, in addition to those covering the Orbital module and the Return module.\n\nTwo new, recently commissioned Yuanwang-class tracking ships, Yuanwang-5 and Yuanwang-6, played a key role in the Shenzhou VII mission.\n\nCustom-made, compact, foldable toilets allow the astronaut's collected urine to be scientifically inspected.\n\nMost of the Shenzhou 6 project management team has stayed for the Shenzhou 7 mission. Changes in personnel include:\n\nAccording to the United States Strategic Command, at 15:07 Greenwich Mean Time on 27 September 2008, the Shenzhou 7 ship passed within 45 kilometers of the International Space Station. China did not respond to queries about why it allowed its ship to pass so close to the space station. Richard Fisher, a senior fellow at the International Assessment and Strategy Center, in an opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal noted that the Shenzhou 7 had launched its companion satellite BX-1 four hours earlier. The IASC is a \"think-tank\" focused on medium and long-term security issues and their impact on the security of the United States and her key allies. He noted \"China's track record of using all of its Shenzhou missions since 1999 for dual military-civil missions,\" and speculated that China may have used the opportunity to pass near the space station to test \"co-orbital\" antisatellite interception technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "5074049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074049", "title": "Sterile male plant", "text": "Sterile male plant\n\nSterile male plants are plants which are incapable of producing pollen. This is sometimes attributed to mutations in the mitochondrial DNA which affects the Tapetum cells in anthers which are responsible for nursing developing pollen. The mutations cause the breakdown of the mitochondria in these specific cells and result in cell death and so pollen production is interrupted. These observations have now led to transgenic sterile male plants to be made in order to create hybrid seeds, by inserting transgenes which are specifically poisonous to Tapetum cells.\n"}
{"id": "420401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420401", "title": "Strigoi", "text": "Strigoi\n\nIn Romanian mythology, strigoi (English: \"striga\", \"poltergeist\") are the troubled spirits of the dead rising from the grave. Some strigoi can be living people with certain magical properties. Some of the properties of the strigoi include: the ability to transform into an animal, invisibility, and the propensity to drain the vitality of victims via blood loss. Strigoi are the myth behind the modern Bram Stoker vampire.\n\nThe word is generally thought to originate in the Ancient Greco-Roman concept of the \"strix\" (Late Latin \"striga\", Greek στρίγξ), which denoted either a witch or a type of ill-omened nocturnal flying creature or a hybrid of the two that was said to crave human flesh and blood, particularly of infants.\n\nThe Croatian Jure Grando, who died in 1656, is often considered the first alleged vampire whose existence is documented. In the earliest published description of the Grando case (in German), from Valvasor's \"The Glory of the Duchy of Carniola\" (1689), the local term was given as \"strigon\".\n\nDimitrie Cantemir mentions the \"striga\" as being a Moldavian and especially Transylvanian belief in his \"\" (1714–1716), though his version corresponds more closely to the classical notion of a witch or sorceress than a blood-drinking vampire and includes a very typical description of dunking as a test for witchcraft.\n\n\"Strigoiulu\" (the Strigoi) was the name of a Romanian-language satirical magazine published briefly in 1862 in Pest.\n\nThe modern form, \"strigoi\", is cited in an 1865 article on Transylvanian folklore by Wilhelm Schmidt, who describes them as plaguing infants. He reports a tradition in which, upon the birth of a child, one tosses a stone behind oneself and exclaims \"this into the mouth of the \"strigoi\"!\"\n\nIn 1909, Franz Hartmann mentions in his book \"An Authenticated Vampire Story\" that peasant children from a village in the Carpathian Mountains started to die mysteriously. The villagers began to suspect a recently deceased count was a vampire, dwelling in his old fortress. Frightened villagers burned the castle to stop the deaths.\n\nIn his book \"In Search of Dracula, The History of Dracula and Vampires\", Radu Florescu mentions an event in 1969 in the city of Căpăţâneni, where after the death of an old man, several family members began to die in suspicious circumstances. Unearthed, the corpse did not show signs of decomposition, his eyes were wide open, the face was red and twisted in the coffin. The corpse was burned to save his soul.\n\nIn 1970, a series of hideous crimes shocked Bucharest. The attacks took place at midnight during rainstorms. The victims were usually waitresses returning home from work. In 1971, Ion Rîmaru was arrested and identified by teeth marks on the corpses. During the trial he was in a state of continual drowsiness. He was interrogated at night because he was not lucid at any other time. During daylight hours, Rîmaru was intractably lethargic. Sentenced to death, Rîmaru became violently agitated. Several policemen were needed to restrain him. After the execution, Rîmaru's father died in a suspicious accident. During the investigation of the accident, it was discovered that the father's fingerprints matched those of a serial killer active in 1944 whose crimes looked remarkably similar to those of Ion Rîmaru. The similarities included the weather conditions and similar or identical names of some of the victims. It was rumored that the accident was engineered by the Securitate, who decided to eliminate the dangerous individual.\n\nDuring the Romanian Revolution of 1989, the corpse of Nicolae Ceaușescu did not receive a proper burial. This made the ghost of the former dictator a threat in the minds of superstitious Romanians. Noted revolutionary Gelu Voican carpeted the apartment of the Conducător with braids of garlic. This is a traditional remedy against the strigoi.\n\nBefore Christmas 2003, in the village of Marotinu de Sus, a 76-year-old Romanian man named Petre Toma died. In February 2004, a niece of the deceased revealed that she had been visited by her late uncle. Gheorghe Marinescu, a brother-in-law, became the leader of a vampire hunting group made up of several family members. After drinking some alcohol, they dug up the coffin of Petre Toma, made an incision in his chest, and tore the heart out. After removal of the heart, the body was burned and the ashes mixed in water and drunk by the family, as is customary. However, the Romanian government anxious to maintain a good image in preparation for the country's accession to the European Union had banned this practice, and six family members were arrested by the police of Craiova from Dolj County for \"disturbing the peace of the dead\", and were imprisoned and sentenced to pay damages to the family of the deceased. Since then, in the nearby village of Amărăştii de Sus, people drive a fire-hardened stake through the heart or belly of the dead as a \"preventative\". The six who exhumed the body were charged and sentenced to six months time served.\n\nThe name \"strigoi\" is related to the Romanian verb \"a striga\", which in Romanian means \"to scream\". Virtually all authorities derive it directly from the Latin terms \"strix\" and \"striga\", the root of which relates particularly to owls and commonly appears in related taxonomic terms for them as well as for blood parasites such as the \"Strigeidida\". Cognates are found throughout the Romance languages, such as the Italian word \"strega\" or the Venetian word \"strìga\" which mean \"witch\". In French, \"stryge\" means a bird-woman who sucks the blood of children. Jules Verne used the term \"stryges\" in Chapter II of his novel \"The Castle of the Carpathians\", published in 1892. The Greek word \"Strix\" and the Albanian word \"shtriga\" are also cognate.\n\nTudor Pamfile in his book \"Mitologie românească\" compiles all appellations of strigoi in Romania \"strâgoi\", \"Moroi\" in western Transylvania, Wallachia and Oltenia, \"vidmă\" in Bucovina, \"vârcolacul\", \"Cel-rau\", or vampire.\n\nA \"strigoaică\" (singular feminine form) is a witch.\n\nThe strigoi viu (living strigoi) is a kind of sorcerer. According to Adrian Cremene, in his book \"Mythology of the vampire in Romania\", the living strigoi steals the wealth of farmers, that is to say, wheat and milk. But it can also stop the rain, drop hail and give death to men and cattle.\n\nThe strigoi mort (dead strigoi) is much more dangerous. Its nature is ambiguous, both human and demonic. He/she emerges from their grave, returns to their family and behaves as in their lifetime, while weakening their relatives until they die in their turn.\n\nThe encyclopedist Dimitrie Cantemir and the folklorist Teodor Burada in his book \"Datinile Poporului român la înmormântări\" published in 1882 refer to cases of strigoism. The strigoi can be a living man, born under certain conditions:\n\n\nAccording to Ionna Andreesco, in his book \"Where are the vampires?\" published in 1997, children born with a caul atop their head will become strigoi to their death.\n\nIn 1887, French geographer Élisée Reclus details the burials in Romania: \"if the deceased has red hair, he is very concerned that he was back in the form of dog, frog, flea or bedbug, and that it enters into houses at night to suck the blood of beautiful young girls. So it is prudent to nail the coffin heavily, or, better yet, a stake through the chest of the corpse. \"\n\nSimeon Florea Marian in \"Înmormântarea la români\" (1892) describes another preventive method, unearthing and beheading then re-interring the corpse and head face down.\n\n\"The Dracula Scrapbook\" by Peter Haining, published by New English Library editions in 1976, reported that the meat of pig killed on the day of St. Ignatius is a good way to guard against vampire, according to Romanian legend.\n\nThere is a known method used by gypsies to get rid of a strigoi as explained on the show Lost Tapes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2200877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200877", "title": "Stuart Adamson", "text": "Stuart Adamson\n\nWilliam Stuart Adamson (11 April 1958 – 16 December 2001) was a Scottish guitarist, vocalist, and songwriter. He was the co-founder, lead vocalist, and guitarist of rock group Big Country, which rose to prominence in 1983.\n\nPrior to that he founded Scottish art-punk band Skids. In the 1990s he founded alternative country rock act The Raphaels. He was once described by DJ John Peel as \"the new Jimi Hendrix\".\n\nAdamson was born in Manchester. Both his parents were Scottish, and when he was four, his family moved to Fife and settled in a small mining town, Crossgates, about a mile to the east of Dunfermline.\n\nAdamson founded his first two bands in Dunfermline and they both started out playing Dunfermline and across the Firth of Forth in Edinburgh. He went to school with Ian Rankin, who was two years younger and went on to become a fan of Skids. Adamson was a lifelong supporter of Dunfermline Athletic Football Club.\n\nAdamson's father was in the fishing industry and traveled the world. He encouraged Stuart to read literature, and both parents shared an interest in folk music. Adamson founded his first band, Tattoo, in 1976 after seeing The Damned play in Edinburgh. Besides Adamson, Tattoo included his friend William Simpson, who would also play bass guitar for his next band, Skids.\n\nAdamson founded Skids in 1977 when he was 18. Adamson and Simpson first recruited drummer Thomas Kellichan. They played as a trio around Dunfermline and Edinburgh until meeting 16-year-old Richard Jobson. Jobson was recruited as a frontman; Adamson and Jobson both wrote songs for the band.\n\nSkids' biggest success was the single \"Into the Valley\" in 1979, which reached number 10 in the UK charts. The band had four chart singles in the UK that year. Adamson was involved with three of their four albums, leaving in 1980 before \"Joy\". Jobson's influence had increased in the band, which led to the increasing disputes between the two musicians.\nJobson later said \"This was a guy who had a mortgage, a wife, and a family when we were all trying to live some mythic punk lifestyle. He seemed level-headed, grounded.\"\n\nAdamson came to greater international prominence with Big Country. He constructed the band with friend and fellow guitarist Bruce Watson, then employed as a cleaner on submarines at Rosyth naval base, and a rhythm section of studio musicians Mark Brzezicki and Tony Butler, whom he found with the help of his record company.\n\nBig Country's first hit, 1983's \"Fields of Fire\", reached the UK's Top 10, and was rapidly followed by the album \"The Crossing\". The album was a big hit in the United States powered by the single \"In a Big Country\", which was performed on Saturday Night Live and the Grammy Awards. The video for \"In a Big Country\" received frequent airplay on MTV and featured the band riding all terrain vehicles in the countryside.\n\nTheir second album \"Steeltown\" appeared in 1984. The band's third album was \"The Seer\". The first two albums were produced by Steve Lillywhite. The band continued to record studio albums and to tour until 1999. Adamson supplied much of the distinctive guitar work, as well as being the lead singer and main songwriter (both music and lyrics). The band's lineup rarely underwent changes, the exception being a brief departure of drummer Mark Brzezicki in the early 1990s and his temporary replacement by Pat Ahern.\n\nAdamson was also a keen motorcyclist and regularly purchased new machines for riding around Fife. His interest extended to the race track where he sponsored British Championship rider Iain Duffus in the late 1980s.\n\nAdamson was married twice. He had two children with his first wife Sandra in 1982 and 1985. His son Callum Adamson is the guitarist of British band Ahab, and his daughter Kirsten has a solo musical career. In 1996, Adamson split with Sandra and moved to Nashville. There he married his second wife, Melanie Shelley a celebrity hairdresser in 1999, and founded his final band, the alternative country band The Raphaels, a duo of Adamson and Nashville songwriter Marcus Hummon.\n\nOn 26 November 2001 Adamson was reported missing by his wife Melanie. At the time the couple had been estranged for several weeks, and Melanie filed for divorce on the day he had disappeared. He had been due to face drunk-driving charges in March 2002, and had been ordered to attend Alcoholics Anonymous. Adamson had previously experienced problems related to alcoholism, and had resumed consuming alcohol after having been sober for over a decade. On 16 December 2001 Adamson was found dead in a room that he had booked into in the Best Western Plaza Hotel in Honolulu in Hawaii. According to a local police report, he had committed suicide by hanging himself with an electrical cord from a pole in a wardrobe. A subsequent Coroner's Office report found that he had a consumed a 'very strong' amount of alcohol around the time of his death.\n\nAdamson's body was subsequently flown back to Scotland, where after a private funeral service at Dunfermline Crematorium in Fife, it was cremated. In the evening of 27 December 2001 a public memorial service was held to celebrate his life and career at Carnegie Hall, Dunfermline, led by Richard Jobson, attended by a crowd of several hundred mourners, including Adamson's family and friends, and former members of Big Country. Messages of condolence were publicly read out, including one from U2's The Edge, stating that Adamson with Big Country had written the songs that he wished U2 could write.\nIn April 2009, a mural of Stuart Adamson was unveiled at East End Park, the home of Dunfermline Athletic Football Club of whom Adamson was a fan: the mural was painted by art students from the local Queen Anne High and Dunfermline High Schools, and adorns the wall of the north stand. \n\nIn September 2011 a commemorative bench to Stuart Adamson was unveiled at Pittencrieff Park in Dunfermline. It was paid for by fans and is inscribed with some of his lyrics chosen by fans in an online poll.\n\nAccording to Skids bassist Bill Simpson, Adamson's first real guitar was a Gibson Flying V. He is usually associated with the Yamaha SG2000 guitar, which he used extensively during the Skids years, as well as on the first two Big Country albums. He also used Fender Stratocasters in this period to achieve lighter tones. Around the time of The Seer, Adamson began to lay his SG2000s aside and experimented with other models. Among these were several Les Pauls, a Gretsch Duo-Jet, and an ESP Stratocaster with humbucking pickups. Adamson also had several guitars made for him by the Glasgow guitar maker Jimmy Moon. Among these were a Telecaster-style electric that Adamson used live on songs such as \"The Teacher,\" \"Steeltown,\" and \"Just a Shadow.\"\n\nAdamson's distinctive \"Scottish\" sound was created using an MXR pitch transposer, which pushed the guitar notes up an octave and created a shrill, bagpipe-esque whine. This can be heard in the lead guitar passages in the song \"In a Big Country.\" Adamson was also noted for his use of the E-Bow, a device that magnetically vibrates guitar strings and generates unique tones with infinite sustain. The e-bow is most prominent in the introductions to the songs \"The Storm\" and \"Lost Patrol.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25816276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25816276", "title": "Sugarscape", "text": "Sugarscape\n\nSugarscape is a model for artificially intelligent agent-based social simulation following some or all rules presented by Joshua M. Epstein & Robert Axtell in their book \"Growing Artificial Societies\".\n\nFundaments of Sugarscape models can be traced back to the University of Maryland where economist Thomas Schelling presented his paper titled \"Models of Segregation\". Written in 1969, Schelling and the rest of the social environment modelling fraternity had their options limited by a lack of adequate computing power and an applicable programming mechanism to fully develop the potential of their model.\n\nJohn Conway's agent-based simulation \"Game of Life\" was enhanced and applied to Schelling's original idea by Joshua M. Epstein and Robert Axtell in their book \"Growing Artificial Societies\". To demonstrate their findings on the field of agent-based simulation, a model was created and distributed with their book on CD-ROM. The concept of this model has come to be known as \"the Sugarscape model\". Since then, the name \"Sugarscape\" has been used for agent-based models using rules similar to those defined by Epstein & Axtell.\n\nAll Sugarscape models include the agents (inhabitants), the environment (a two-dimensional grid) and the rules governing the interaction of the agents with each other and the environment.\n\nThe original model presented by J. Epstein & R. Axtell (considered as the first large scale agent model) is based on a 51x51 cell grid, where every cell can contain different amounts of sugar (or spice). In every step agents look around, find the closest cell filled with sugar, move and metabolize. They can leave pollution, die, reproduce, inherit sources, transfer information, trade or borrow sugar, generate immunity or transmit diseases - depending on the specific scenario and variables defined at the set-up of the model.\n\nSugar in simulation could be seen as a metaphor for resources in an artificial world through which the examiner can study the effects of social dynamics such as evolution, marital status and inheritance on populations.\n\nExact simulation of the original rules provided by J. Epstein & R. Axtell in their book can be problematic and it is not always possible to recreate the same results as those presented in \"Growing Artificial Societies\".\n\nThe Sugarscape model has had several implementations, some of which are available as open source software.\n\nAn original implementation was developed in Ascape, Java software suitable for agent-based social simulation. The Sugarscape model remains part of the built-in library of models distributed with Ascape.\n\nNetLogo has been used to build Sugarscape models. Three Sugarscape scenarios are included in the NetLogo Models Library: \"Immediate Growback\", \"Constant Growback\" and \"Wealth Distribution\". Besides these three scenarios lies Iain Weaver's Sugarscape NetLogo model, which is part of the User Community Models Library. \"It builds on Owen Densmore's NetLogo community model to encompass all rules discussed in \"Growing Artificial Societies\" with the exception of the combat rule (although trivial to include, it adds little value to the model).\" The model is equipped with rich documentation including instructions for successful replication of the original Sugarscape rules.\n\nDue to the emergent nature of agent-based models (ABMs), it is critical that the population sizes in the simulations match the population sizes of the dynamic systems being modelled. However, the performance of contemporary agent simulation frameworks has been inadequate to handle such large population sizes and parallel computing frameworks designed to run on computing clusters has been limited by available bandwidth. As computing power increases with Moore's law, the size and complexity of simulation frameworks can be expected to increase. The team of R. M. D’Souza, M. Lysenko and K Rahmani from Michigan Technological University used a Sugarscape model to demonstrate the power of Graphics processing units (GPU) in ABM simulations with over 50 updates per second with agent populations exceeding 2 millions.\n\nAnother implementation can be found written in Mathematica.\n\nGMU's MASON project, available under the Academic Free License, also includes an implementation of Sugarscape.\n\n"}
{"id": "58193442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58193442", "title": "Summer Day's Dream", "text": "Summer Day's Dream\n\nSummer Day's Dream is a 1949 play by J. B. Priestley. It is set in 1975, and evokes a world where a nuclear Third World War has caused Britain to revert to a pre-industrial, pre-capitalist state. It takes its title from Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", which is being produced by two members of the English family the play is based around.\n\nEighty-year-old Stephen Dawlish lives with his daughter-in-law, grandson and granddaughter on the South Downs in Sussex, in a former mansion which is now a farmhouse. There is no political system, no cars or telephones, and goods are exchanged by a barter system. Three characters from the surviving great powers of the world, the United States (Franklyn Heimer), the Soviet Union (Irina Shestova) and India (Dr Bahru), arrive in an attempt to develop a major industrial plant to create synthetic products out of the area's abundant produce of chalk. They initially dismiss the environment as, respectively, out of date, decadent and unenlightened. After a while, they find themselves captivated by the atmosphere of this rural society, and find themselves unable to carry out their plans, and ultimately depart to leave England in its newfound state of peace.\n\nThe play was first performed in Priestley's native Bradford on 8 August 1949. This production, along with that in London the following month, featured Herbert Lomas as Stephen Dawlish, and also featured Eileen Thorndike (sister of Dame Sybil) and a young Adrienne Corri; the same cast appeared in a BBC Television performance of the play broadcast on 30 October 1949. Before going to London, it also played in Brighton, Bournemouth and Cardiff.\n\nThe play was well received by critics when it was initially performed; the \"Yorkshire Evening Post\" suggested in its review of the Bradford premiere that it combined \"fancy, humour and plain brusque conversational commonsense\" and that Priestley had \"something to say that he has never said quite so well\". The \"Daily Herald\", while mentioning that Priestley had attended the premiere, reported that \"many people in the audience thought that the play was one of the best he had ever written\". Priestley described the play as \"a comedy of ideas and atmosphere\". When it opened at St Martin's Theatre in the West End of London there were \"at least six curtain calls\"; the reviewer of the \"Birmingham Gazette\" said that \"any rapture was earned less by the merits of Mr Priestley's discussion play shot with poetry than by the escapist glimpse it offers of a Britain 25 years hence that need not worry about missions to Washington\" but added with some sarcasm that \"unfortunately we presumably have to have a third world war first and ship millions of people abroad - presumably the uncultured and difficult ones\", concluding that the best actors acted \"as if they were something more than mouthpieces for the author's thoughts on civilisation's dilemmas\". The play was presented by the London Mask Theatre in association with the recently-formed Arts Council. The \"Illustrated London News\" described it as \"a fantasy, mellow and serene\". George W. Bishop in \"The Daily Telegraph\" was reasonably positive, suggesting that Priestley was \"again more interested in ideas rather than people ... (it) is simple to the point of naivety\".\n\nHowever, the play's run in London was short-lived; it closed on 15 October 1949 after only 43 performances, because takings had only just managed to climb into three figures a night and the average loss was around £500 each week. The subsequent TV production received at least one negative review from the \"Essex Newsman\", although Emery Pearce in the \"Daily Herald\" was much more positive, stating that \"Priestley plus television is a new and powerful combination of promise\".\n\nSubsequently, the play has only rarely been revived. In 1950, it was performed by the Birmingham Repertory Theatre; a largely critical review in the \"Birmingham Gazette\" dismissed Priestley's American, Russian and Indian characters as \"mere puppets\" and referred critically to Priestley's \"cardboard characters\" and \"incurable romanticism\". This production then went to Sheffield and Bristol. The text was also published in an anthology, \"The Plays of J.B. Priestley\". A 1957 revival by the Caryl Jenner Mobile Theatre was performed at Southwold in the summer before touring the UK during the autumn; among the places it visited were Grantham, Billingham on 4 December 1957, Newport and Cowes on the Isle of Wight, Berwick-upon-Tweed on 30 November 1957 and Alfreton on 7 December 1957. The following year, it was revived again (with the setting moved forward to 1985) by the Castle Theatre, Farnham; this production then went to Reading, in a production described by the \"Reading Mercury\" as \"a thought-provoking play, well performed by a competent cast and certainly deserving of better support than it obtained on opening night\" and finally to Canterbury.\n\nFrom then on the play remained in near-total obscurity until it was revived by the BBC in a production in BBC2's \"Performance\" series – the last major series of studio plays broadcast in the UK – on 26 November 1994, starring John Gielgud in his last television role as Stephen Dawlish (more than 60 years after he had played on stage and screen as Inigo Jollifant in Priestley's \"The Good Companions\") and also featuring Rosemary Harris, Paul Bhattacharjee, Mike McShane, Saskia Reeves, Paul Rhys, Terence Rigby and Emily Watson. This was well received by Lynne Truss in \"The Times\" who wrote, \"preposterous is how it sounds, but amazingly Saturday's production by Christopher Morahan was magical enough to carry it off\", also mentioning that in the play Shrewsbury has become the largest settlement in Britain. Sean Day-Lewis, previewing the production in the previous weekend's \"Sunday Telegraph\", suggested that it was \"a work of false prophecy, muddled style and contradictory attitudes\" and that its politics were \"craven\", but also said that it came across with \"beguiling effect\" and that Gielgud's performance was \"among his best for television\". Hugh Massingberd, reviewing it in \"The Daily Telegraph\", suggested that \"for all his professed socialism, Priestley seemed to be conjuring up an Edwardian's nostalgic vision of a country estate that chimes with the great James Lees-Milne's admirable claim that 'squirearchy was probably the most successful form of local government that's ever been devised'\". The BBC production is now available on YouTube. A further revival – this time on stage – was performed by the Finborough Theatre in 2013, the first London production in 64 years, receiving a positive review from Michael Billington in \"The Guardian\".\n"}
{"id": "18182366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18182366", "title": "Telescoping generations", "text": "Telescoping generations\n\nTelescoping generations can occur in parthenogenetic species, such as aphids or other life forms that have the ability to reproduce without ovum fertilization. This occurrence is characterized by a viviparous female having a daughter growing inside her that is also parthenogenetically pregnant with a daughter cell.\n\nThis pattern of reproduction can also occur in certain mites that are not parthenogenetic, e.g. \"Adactylidium\", in which the young hatch and mate within the mother, eating her from the inside and then escaping; in some species the males never escape, and in others they die shortly afterwards. However, the resulting inbreeding has consequences much like those of parthenogenesis, and the females are not actually pregnant on hatching but become pregnant before emerging into free living.\n"}
{"id": "7242341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7242341", "title": "Terrence Kiel", "text": "Terrence Kiel\n\nTerrence Dewayne Kiel (November 24, 1980 – July 4, 2008) was an American safety in the National Football League. He played his entire career for the San Diego Chargers (2003–2006) after being drafted by them in the second round of the 2003 NFL Draft. He played college football at Texas A&M.\n\nKiel was born in Lufkin, Texas. As a senior at Lufkin High School, he posted 115 tackles, five interceptions, and three recovered fumbles. He scored four returning touchdowns, including three on punt returns. He also blocked five kick attempts, including three PATs. He received Class 5A all-state mention honors for his efforts.\n\nKiel played college football at Texas A&M University from 1999 to 2002. In his freshman year, he played in 11 games, posting nine tackles, including seven solo. As a sophomore, he started in 10 of 11 games, making 57 tackles (41 solo). He also defended six passes and tied for the team lead with his four interceptions. For that season, he received honorable mention All-Big 12 honors by the \"Associated Press\". As a junior, he started in all 12 games, posting 92 total tackles, including a team-high of 65 solo hits. He recorded one interception and broke five passes. He also had four games where he posted double-digit tackles. In his senior year, he received all-Big 12 honorable mention honors by the league's coaches and \"Associated Press\" after posting a team-high of 95 tackles. In the same season, he helped the team upset then-#1 Oklahoma by intercepting the Sooners' final pass of the game.\n\nKiel was selected by the Chargers with the 62nd overall pick, in the second round in the 2003 NFL Draft. Over his four seasons with the Chargers, he played in 59 games and started 51. He posted 278 tackles, 2 sacks, 4 interceptions, and 2 forced fumbles. He was cut on March 1, 2007, and was declared a free agent the following day.\n\nIn July 2003, Kiel was shot three times during an alleged attempted carjacking incident at a southwest Houston mall parking lot. The assailant, described as a man in his young teens or early 20s, fled the scene. None of Kiel's injuries were serious and he was shortly released by the hospital.\n\nIn September 2006, Kiel was arrested for multiple drug charges including possession, possession with the intent to sell, and transportation of a controlled substance. Police came to the Chargers practice facility and arrested him. He was released after posting a $1,550,000 bond.\n\nIn January 2007, he was cited for publicly urinating outside a San Diego nightclub, but the city dropped the charge. In February 2007, he pleaded guilty to felony and misdemeanor drug charges for shipping the purple drank to Texas. He was released by the Chargers after his plea and was sentenced to three years of probation. The felony charge was dropped after he volunteered for 175 hours and underwent counseling for gambling.\n\nOn July 4, 2008, San Diego police reported that Kiel had died in a car crash. He was driving back home from a party thrown by Chargers player Stephen Cooper when his 2004 Chevrolet Monte Carlo hit a wall and he was thrown from the car.\n\nThe autopsy report stated that Kiel died due to mechanical asphyxia. His funeral was held in his hometown, Lufkin, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "18738498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18738498", "title": "The Ruum", "text": "The Ruum\n\n\"The Ruum\" is a 1953 short story with a pursuit theme by the American author Arthur Porges and is probably his best known work.\n\nA shape-shifting, indestructible robot—a \"Type H-9 Ruum\"—is accidentally left behind on earth during the age of the dinosaurs by visiting aliens, and not recovered because their ship is destroyed in a battle. The Ruum's work is collecting different species of animals within a 30-mile radius, weighing 160 pounds (give or take 15 pounds) and preserving them in a state of suspended animation for later retrieval.\n\nMany millions of years later Jim Irwin, a uranium prospector in the Canadian Rocky Mountains, encounters the Ruum's specimens, animals which include modern and prehistoric mammals and a small Stegosaurus. After he has noticed that the animals are all of a uniform size, and alive, the still-functioning Ruum appears. Shooting it with a rifle does not damage it, and when the approaching blob-shaped Ruum reveals gripping hooks and a probe dripping green liquid, Irwin runs as it pursues him at a steady five miles per hour. It is noted that Irwin weighs 149 pounds.\n\nFit and military-trained, Irwin attempts to evade and destroy the Ruum. First he hides above his trail and drops a boulder on it, but this also fails to damage it. Then he climbs a sheer cliff, but the Ruum extrudes a climbing claw to the ledge where he is hidden. He tries to dislodge it with a stick, and finds the Ruum can generate an electric shock. He shoots it and dislodges it, but the Ruum is unharmed by the fall and responds by growing multiple claws. Having not had any time for food or sleep, Irwin eventually circles back to his camp by a lake and sets a trap with dynamite. Taking advantage of the Ruum's distraction by a grizzly bear, which it kills, he detonates the dynamite using a pistol bullet.\n\nDazed by the explosion, he sees the Ruum still unharmed and still approaching. Exhausted and defenseless, he awaits it adding him to its collection. However, it lifts him up, then puts him back down and leaves. Soon afterward, his colleague Walt Leonard arrives by seaplane and rescues him. Safely in the plane, they make plans to bring a helicopter and collect some of the Ruum's specimens in its absence to sell to scientists. Leonard comments on Irwin's haggard appearance, guessing him to have lost 10 pounds during the chase: the reader understands that this caused his weight to become less than the Ruum's weight criterion.\n\nA sequel to \"The Ruum\", entitled \"A Specimen for the Queen\", appeared in the May 1960 edition of \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\".\n\n\"The Ruum\" was selected by David Drake for his 1988 anthology, \"Things Hunting Men,\" where he commented that this was one of Porges seventy-some \"meticulously crafted stories\" where \"sometimes the problem the protagonist faces really is insoluble.\" But, here, Jim Irwin never gives up.\n\nMany other reprints are listed at the ISFDB.\n"}
{"id": "11030781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11030781", "title": "Walter Loomis Newberry", "text": "Walter Loomis Newberry\n\nWalter Loomis Newberry (September 18, 1804 – November 6, 1868) was the son of Amasa and Ruth (Warner) Newberry. He was an American businessman and philanthropist, best known for his bequest that resulted in the creation of the Newberry Library in Chicago.\nNewberry received an appointment to the United States Military Academy, but had to decline for health reasons. In 1822, Newberry and his brother Oliver went into the shipping business in Buffalo, New York. They moved to Detroit, Michigan in 1826 and founded a successful dry goods company. Newberry joined a syndicate that included William Astor and Lewis Cass, investing in real estate in what would become Chicago, Milwaukee, and Green Bay; he moved to Chicago in 1833 and continued to prosper in banking and real estate. He became President of the Galena and Chicago Union Railroad, the first railroad built from Chicago.\nNewberry died in 1868 on the steamship \"Periere\" while en route to France. \n\nHis will provided for his wife and daughters during their lifetimes, and further provided that if his daughters Julia Rosa and Mary Louisa died without issue, half his remaining estate would go to found a public library in Chicago. Mary Louisa died in 1874, and Julia Rosa in 1876, neither having married or had children. By the time that Newberry's widow, Julia Butler Newberry, died in 1885, the Chicago Public Library was already well-established as a circulating library. The trustees of Newberry's will therefore used the bequest to establish the Newberry Library as a non-circulating reference library. A Chicago public school in Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood and Chicago's Newberry Avenue are named for him.\n\nNewberry was the uncle of U.S. Congressman John Stoughton Newberry.\n\nOliver Newberry (17 November 1789 – 30 July 1860), a brother of Walter Loomis Newberry, born in East Windsor, Connecticut. He served during the War of 1812, and also during the Black Hawk War. In 1816 he settled in Buffalo, New York, but in 1820 he went to Detroit, where he established himself in business. Soon after his arrival in Detroit, he secured government contracts to furnish all supplies to the numerous forts and Indian trading-posts in the northwest. He was unable to obtain suitable transportation, and was compelled to build a vessel for his own use. Afterward, he constructed other vessels during successive years until he became one of the largest owners of shipping on the lakes.\n\nIn 1833, he built the “Michigan,” his first steamboat, which was the largest that until that time had been launched for the lake trade. Several warehouses were constructed by him along the river front in Detroit, where his various schooners, brigs, and steamboats were loaded. He was elected an alderman in Detroit in 1831, and he was associated in the early history of Michigan railroads. For many years, he carried all of his business papers in his hat, and was rarely seen uncovered. He was known as the “commodore” of the lakes, and was sometimes called “the steamboat king.” He died in Detroit.\n\n"}
{"id": "4021051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4021051", "title": "Zarlor Mercenary", "text": "Zarlor Mercenary\n\nZarlor Mercenary is a vertically scrolling shooter for the Atari Lynx handheld console, developed by Epyx and published by Atari Corporation.\n\n\"Zarlor Mercenary\" is a vertically scrolling shoot 'em up in which the player controls a spacecraft destroying enemy spaceships and buildings in order to earn money which can be used to buy upgrades between levels. At the end of each level there is a boss ship that needs to be destroyed. Up to four players can play simultaneously using the Comlynx. Noted in the game manual you don't start with life but a fleet of ships. In single-player you start of with four ships, in two player mode you start off with three ships each. With three and four players you only start the game with two ships each.\n\nThere are seven different pilot mercenaries to choose from, each having their own permanent unique weapon and skill.\nAfter each mission there is a shop run by the Merchant of Venus. Here you can purchase and sell extra items. These include extra ships, which is like buying extra lives. \"Speed Up, Wing Cannons, Super Shield (regenerating shielding), Power Shots, Laser, Auto Fire, Mega Bomb, Back Shooter and Side Shooter.\" There are also two items for use in multiplayer mode. \"Invisibility\" so you can hide from other players and \"Back stabber\" which will attack your allied friends and not the enemy as well as protecting your loot so you don't lose it in that life.\n\nThe war had been going on for years between the Mendicant and the Zarlor races. It wasn't going anywhere so the Zarlors decided to hire outside help. There are six key installations on the Mendicant's home planet of Yorith, all to be cleared out for colonization by the Zarlors.\n\nPeter Engelbrite at Epyx who was known for including easter eggs and mini-games in Atari Lynx games also included a version of the cellular automata, Conway's Game of Life in Zarlor Mercenary.\n\nIn \"Computer and Video Games\", Paul Glancey called \"Zarlor Mercenary\" \"a decent-looking shoot 'em up, but quite difficult and not overly exciting to play.\" Clayton Walnum wrote in \"STart\", \"As you struggle to destroy the attacking aliens and blast the ground targets, you'll begin to understand what people mean by the term 'control pad ache'. This blastathon will please all players with a thirst for destruction.\"\n\nIn a 1999 retrospective review, Robert Jung of \"IGN\" stated \"A great no-nonsense action game, perfect for people who love the 'shoot it if it exists' philosophy. The game itself is not easy, and the addition of four-player teamups and cash payments/transfers/power-ups ensure quite a bit of variety to the game. Though there are only six levels, they are quite varied, and should offer many challenging hours to the average player.\" Kyle Knight of \"AllGame\" praised the graphics but stated that \"\"Zarlor Mercenary\" moves sluggishly\". In July 2013 \"GamesRadar\"s Jeff Dunn wrote that \"Zarlor Mercenary\" along with \"Blue Lightning\" were the \"obscure but excellent games\" for the Lynx.\n\n"}
{"id": "31925249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31925249", "title": "Æthelwulf of Berkshire", "text": "Æthelwulf of Berkshire\n\nÆthelwulf of Berkshire (before 825 – 4 January, 871) was a Saxon ealdorman. In 860 he and other men of Berkshire fought off a band of pirates near Winchester, Hampshire. Later he mustered a force of 1400 men against an army of Danes, won the 31 December 870 Battle of Englefield on behalf of the then kingdom of Wessex. He received a land grant in 843/44 from Brihtwulf, king of Mercia; and lost his life at the Battle of Reading.\n\nÆthelweard, in his account of the battle, reveals a curious fact about Æthelwulf, master of the art of the ambush: he was a Mercian and not a West Saxon. Not only this, Æthelweard says:\n\n\"In fact, the body of the \"dux\" (leader) mentioned above was carried away secretly and taken into Mercia to the place called Northworthig, but Derby in the Danish tongue.\"\n"}
