{"id": "2598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2598", "title": "Adversarial system", "text": "Adversarial system\n\nThe adversarial system or adversary system is a legal system used in the common law countries where two advocates represent their parties' case or position before an impartial person or group of people, usually a jury or judge, who attempt to determine the truth and pass judgment accordingly. It is in contrast to the inquisitorial system used in some civil law systems (i.e. those deriving from Roman law or the Napoleonic code) where a judge investigates the case.\n\nThe adversarial system is the two-sided structure under which criminal trial courts operate that puts the prosecution against the defense.\n\nSome writers trace the process to the medieval mode of trial by combat, in which some litigants, notably women, were allowed a champion to represent them. The use of the jury in the common law system seems to have fostered the adversarial system and provides the opportunity for both sides to argue their point of view.\n\nAs an accused is not compelled to give evidence in a criminal adversarial proceeding, they may not be questioned by a prosecutor or judge unless they choose to do so. However, should they decide to testify, they are subject to cross-examination and could be found guilty of perjury. As the election to maintain an accused person's right to silence prevents any examination or cross-examination of that person's position, it follows that the decision of counsel as to what evidence will be called is a crucial tactic in any case in the adversarial system and hence it might be said that it is a lawyer's manipulation of the truth. Certainly, it requires the skills of counsel on both sides to be fairly equally pitted and subjected to an impartial judge.\n\nBy contrast, while defendants in most civil law systems can be compelled to give a statement, this statement is not subject to cross-examination by the prosecutor and not given under oath. This allows the defendant to explain his side of the case without being subject to cross-examination by a skilled opposition. However, this is mainly because it is not the prosecutor but the judges who question the defendant. The concept of \"cross\"-examination is entirely due to adversarial structure of the common law.\n\nJudges in an adversarial system are impartial in ensuring the fair play of due process, or fundamental justice. Such judges decide, often when called upon by counsel rather than of their own motion, what evidence is to be admitted when there is a dispute; though in some common law jurisdictions judges play more of a role in deciding what evidence to admit into the record or reject. At worst, abusing judicial discretion would actually pave the way to a biased decision, rendering obsolete the judicial process in question—rule of law being illicitly subordinated by rule of man under such discriminating circumstances.\n\nThe rules of evidence are also developed based upon the system of objections of adversaries and on what basis it may tend to prejudice the trier of fact which may be the judge or the jury. In a way the rules of evidence can function to give a judge limited inquisitorial powers as the judge may exclude evidence he/she believes is not trustworthy or irrelevant to the legal issue at hand.\n\nAll evidence must be relevant and not hearsay evidence.\n\nPeter Murphy in his \"Practical Guide to Evidence\" recounts an instructive example. A frustrated judge in an English (adversarial) court finally asked a barrister after witnesses had produced conflicting accounts, 'Am I never to hear the truth?' 'No, my lord, merely the evidence', replied counsel.\n\nThe name \"adversarial system\" may be misleading in that it implies it is only within this type of system in which there are opposing prosecution and defense. This is not the case, and both modern adversarial and inquisitorial systems have the powers of the state separated between a prosecutor and the judge and allow the defendant the right to counsel. Indeed, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 6 requires these features in the legal systems of its signatory states.\n\nThe right to counsel in criminal trials was initially not accepted in some adversarial systems. It was believed that the facts should speak for themselves, and that lawyers would just blur the matters. As a consequence, it was only in 1836 that England gave suspects of felonies the formal right to have legal counsel (the Prisoners' Counsel Act 1836), although in practice English courts routinely allowed defendants to be represented by counsel from the mid-18th century. During the second half of the 18th century advocates like Sir William Garrow and Thomas Erskine, 1st Baron Erskine helped usher in the adversarial court system used in most common law countries today. In the United States, however, personally retained counsel have had a right to appear in all federal criminal cases since the adoption of the Constitution and in state cases at least since the end of the Civil War, although nearly all provided this right in their state constitutions or laws much earlier. Appointment of counsel for indigent defendants was nearly universal in federal felony cases, though it varied considerably in state cases. It was not until 1963 that the U.S. Supreme Court declared that legal counsel must be provided at the expense of the state for indigent felony defendants, under the federal Sixth Amendment, in state courts. See \"Gideon v. Wainwright\", .\n\nOne of the most significant differences between the adversarial system and the inquisitorial system occurs when a criminal defendant admits to the crime. In an adversarial system, there is no more controversy and the case proceeds to sentencing; though in many jurisdictions the defendant must have allocution of her or his crime; an obviously false confession will not be accepted even in common law courts. By contrast, in an inquisitorial system, the fact that the defendant has confessed is merely one more fact that is entered into evidence, and a confession by the defendant does not remove the requirement that the prosecution present a full case. This allows for plea bargaining in adversarial systems in a way that is difficult or impossible in inquisitional system, and many felony cases in the United States are handled without trial through such plea bargains.\n\nIn some adversarial legislative systems, the court is permitted to make inferences on an accused's failure to face cross-examination or to answer a particular question. This obviously limits the usefulness of silence as a tactic by the defense. In England the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 allowed such inferences to be made for the first time in England and Wales (it was already possible in Scotland under the rule of criminative circumstances). This change was disparaged by critics as an end to the 'right to silence', though in fact an accused still has the right to remain silent and cannot be compelled to take the stand. The criticism reflects the idea that if the accused can be inferred to be guilty by exercising their right to silence, it no longer confers the protection intended by such a right. In the United States, the Fifth Amendment has been interpreted to prohibit a jury from drawing a negative inference based on the defendant's invocation of his right not to testify, and the jury must be so instructed if the defendant requests.\n\nLord Devlin in \"The Judge\" said: \"It can also be argued that two prejudiced searchers starting from opposite ends of the field will between them be less likely to miss anything than the impartial searcher starting at the middle.\"\n\nThere are many differences in the way cases are reviewed. It is questionable that the results would be different if cases were conducted under the differing approaches; in fact no statistics exist that can show whether or not these systems would come to the same results. However, these approaches are often a matter of national pride and there are opinions amongst jurists about the merits of the differing approaches and their drawbacks as well.\n\nProponents of the adversarial system often argue that the system is more fair and less prone to abuse than the inquisitional approach, because it allows less room for the state to be biased against the defendant. It also allows most private litigants to settle their disputes in an amicable manner through discovery and pre-trial settlements in which non-contested facts are agreed upon and not dealt with during the trial process.\n\nIn addition, adversarial procedure defenders argue that the inquisitorial court systems are overly institutionalized and removed from the average citizen. The common law trial lawyer has ample opportunity to uncover the truth in the courtroom. Most cases that go to trial are carefully prepared through a discovery process that aids in the review of evidence and testimony before it is presented to judge or jury. The lawyers involved have a very good idea of the scope of agreement and disagreement of the issues to present at trial which develops much in the same way as the role of investigative judges.\n\nProponents of inquisitorial justice dispute these points. They point out that many cases in adversarial systems, and most cases in the United States, are actually resolved by plea bargain or settlement. Plea bargain as a system does not exist in an inquisitorial system. Many legal cases in adversarial systems, and most in the United States, do not go to trial, which may lead to injustice when the defendant has an unskilled or overworked attorney, which is likely to be the case when the defendant is poor. In addition, proponents of inquisitorial systems argue that the plea bargain system causes the participants in the system to act in perverse ways, in that it encourages prosecutors to bring charges far in excess of what is warranted and defendants to plead guilty even when they believe that they are not.\n\n"}
{"id": "1651029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651029", "title": "Agency cost", "text": "Agency cost\n\nAn agency cost is an economic concept concerning the fee to a \"principal\" (an organization, person or group of persons), when the principal chooses or hires an \"agent\" to act on its behalf. Because the two parties have different interests and the agent has more information, the principal cannot directly ensure that its agent is always acting in its (the principal's) best interests.\n\nCommon examples of this cost include that borne by shareholders (the principal), when corporate management (the agent) buys other companies to expand its power, or spends money on wasteful pet projects, instead of maximizing the value of the corporation's worth; or by the voters of a politician's district (the principal) when the politician (the agent) passes legislation helpful to large contributors to their campaign rather than the voters. Though effects of agency cost are present in any agency relationship, the term is most used in business contexts.\n\nThe costs consist of two main sources:\n\n\nThe information asymmetry that exists between shareholders and the Chief Executive Officer is generally considered to be a classic example of a principal–agent problem. The agent (the manager) is working on behalf of the principal (the shareholders), who does not observe the actions, or many of the actions, or is not aware of the repercussions of many of the actions of the agent. Most importantly, even if there was no asymmetric information, the design of the manager's contract would be crucial in order to maintain the relationship between their actions and the interests of shareholders.\n\nInformation asymmetry contributes to moral hazard and adverse selection problems.\n\nAgency costs mainly arise due to contracting costs and the divergence of control, separation of ownership and control and the different objectives (rather than shareholder maximization) the managers.\n\nProfessor Michael Jensen of the Harvard Business School and the late Professor William Meckling of the Simon School of Business, University of Rochester wrote an influential paper in 1976 titled \"Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and Ownership Structure\". Professor Jensen also wrote an important paper with Eugene Fama of University of Chicago titled \"Agency Problems and Residual Claims\".\n\nThere are various actors in the field and various objectives that can incur costly correctional behaviour. The various actors are mentioned and their objectives are given below.\n\nThe classic case of corporate agency cost is the professional manager—specifically the CEO—with only a small stake in ownership, having interests differing from those of firm's owners.\n\nInstead of making the company more efficient and profitable, the CEO may be tempted into: \n\nVenturing onto fraud, management may even manipulate financial figures to optimize bonuses and stock-price-related options.\n\nIn jurisdictions outside the US and UK, a distinct form of agency costs arises from the existence of dominant shareholders within public corporations (Rojas, 2014).\n\nBondholders typically value a risk-averse strategy since they do not benefit from higher profits. Stockholders on the other hand have an interest in taking on more risk. If a risky project succeeds shareholders will get all of the profits themselves, whereas if the projects fail the risk maybe shared with the bondholder (although the bondholder has a higher priority for repayment in case of issuer bankruptcy than a shareholder).\n\nBecause bondholders know this, they often have costly and large ex-ante contracts in place prohibiting the management from taking on very risky projects that might arise, or they will simply raise the interest rate demanded, increasing the cost of capital for the company.\n\nIn the literature, the board of directors is typically viewed as comprising both the management and the shareholders and in some cases, the management could also be part of the shareholders.\n\nLabour is sometimes aligned with stockholders and sometimes with management. They too share the same risk-averse strategy, since they cannot diversify their labour whereas the stockholders can diversify their stake in the equity. Risk averse projects reduce the risk of bankruptcy and in turn reduce the chances of job-loss. On the other hand, if the CEO is clearly underperforming then the company is in threat of a hostile takeover which is sometimes associated with job-loss. They are therefore likely to give the CEO considerable leeway in taking risk averse projects, but if the manager is clearly underperforming, they will likely signal that to the stockholders.\n\nOther stakeholders such as the government, suppliers and customers all have their specific interests to look after and that might incur additional costs. Agency costs in the government may include the likes of government wasting taxpayers money to suit their own interest, which may conflict with the general tax-paying public who may want it used elsewhere on things such as health care and education. The literature however mainly focuses on the above categories of agency costs.\n\nWhile complete contract theory is useful for explaining the terms of agricultural contracts, such as the sharing percentages in tenancy contracts (Steven N. S. Cheung, 1969), agency costs are typically needed to explain their forms. For example, piece rates are preferred for labor tasks where quality is readily observable, e.g. sharpened sugar cane stalks ready for planting. Where effort quality is difficult to observe, e.g. the uniformity of broadcast seeds or fertilizer, wage rates tend to be used. Allen and Lueck (2004) have found that farm organization is strongly influenced by diversity in the form of moral hazard such that crop and household characteristics explain the nature of the farm, even the lack of risk aversion. Roumasset (1995) finds that warranted intensification (e.g. due to land quality) jointly determines optimal specialization on the farm, along with the agency costs of alternative agricultural firms. Where warranted specialization is low, peasant farmers relying on household labor predominate. In high value-per-hectare agriculture, however, there is extensive horizontal specialization by task and vertical specialization between owner, supervisory personnel and workers. These agency theories of farm organization and agricultural allow for multiple shirking possibilities, in contrast to the principal-agency version of sharecropping and agricultural contracts (Stiglitz, 1974, 1988, 1988) which trades-off labor shirking vs. risk-bearing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7091584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7091584", "title": "Annual leave", "text": "Annual leave\n\nAnnual leave is paid time off work granted by employers to employees to be used for whatever the employee wishes. Depending on the employer's policies, differing number of days may be offered, and the employee may be required to give a certain amount of advance notice, may have to coordinate with the employer to be sure that staffing is adequately covered during the employee's absence, and other requirements may have to be met. The vast majority of countries today mandate a minimum amount of paid annual leave by law, though the United States is a notable exception in mandating no minimum paid leave and treating it as a perk rather than a right.\n\nMost countries around the world have labour laws that mandate employers give a certain number of paid time-off days per year to workers. Canada requires at least two weeks (and at least three weeks for most workers in Saskatchewan); in the European Union the countries can set freely the minimum, but it has to be at least equivalent to 4 working weeks. Full-time employment in Australia requires twenty annual leave days a year. US law does not require employers to grant any vacation or holidays, and about 25 per cent of all employees receive no paid vacation time or paid holidays.\n\nAccording to the Bureau of Labor Statistics in the United States, the average paid holidays for full-time employees in small private establishments in 1996 was 7.6 days. Members of the US Armed Forces earn 30 vacation days a year, not including national holidays. Although the law does not mandate vacation time, many employers nonetheless offer paid vacation, typically around 10 work days in the private sector, to attract employees. Under US federal law, employers usually must compensate terminated employees for accrued but unused vacation time. Additionally, many American employers provide paid days off for national holidays, such as Christmas, New Year's Day, Independence Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, and Thanksgiving.\n\nSome countries, such as Denmark and Italy, or particular companies may mandate summer holidays in specific periods.\n\nArgentina has different labour laws, for public employment and private employment. Public employees, have between a minimum of 21 days paid to 45 days paid for vacations (including holidays and weekends). Private employees have since 14 paid days to 28 paid days (including holidays and weekends). In both cases is always relying on the years of service. The more years the worker has the more days of paid vacation they will have.\n\nConsecutive holidays refers to holidays that occur in a group without working days in between. In the late 1990s, the Japanese government passed a law that increased the likelihood of consecutive holidays by moving holidays from fixed days to a relative position in a month, such as the second Monday.\n\n"}
{"id": "39620254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39620254", "title": "Argentine Constitution of 1826", "text": "Argentine Constitution of 1826\n\nThe Argentine Constitution of 1826 was a short-lived Constitution of Argentina drafted during the Argentine Civil Wars. Bernardino Rivadavia was appointed President of Argentina under this constitution. It was rejected by most Argentine provinces, and then abolished.\n\nThe Argentine War of Independence, which began in 1810, was soon followed by the Argentine Civil Wars, as the provinces had conflictive views over the national organization. The federals supported the autonomy of the provinces, and the Unitarian party supported a political centralization of the country in Buenos Aires. The Argentine Constitution of 1819, drafted by the Congress of Tucumán, was highly centralist. It was abolished in 1820 after the federal victory at the battle of Cepeda. The office of the Supreme Director of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata, the head of state at the time, was abolished as well. The provinces stayed united as a country by the Treaty of Pilar, but without any constitution or head of state for the time being. This period is known as the \"anarchy of the year XX\".\n\nThe Treaty of Benegas between Buenos Aires and Santa Fe included an agreement to call for a new Constituent Assembly, which would work at the city of Córdoba. The treaty did not mention the political system, which would be discussed at the assembly, nor the reaction to the Luso-Brazilian invasion of the Banda Oriental. The assembly was attended by representatives of Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, Córdoba, Mendoza, San Juan, La Rioja, Santiago del Estero, Tucumán and San Luis. However, the legal complaints of the representatives of Buenos Aires did not allow the Assembly to begin its work. The assembly was closed shortly afterwards.\n\nBuenos Aires, Santa Fe, Entre Ríos and Corrientes signed the Quadrilateral Treaty, to call a new Constituent Assembly, this time in Buenos Aires. Again, it did not specify the political system. The new assembly was convened in Buenos Aires on February 27. As the number of representatives was proportional to the population, Buenos Aires had the highest number. Twelve of the thirteen provinces accepted to hold the Congress in Buenos Aires; San Luis proposed Tucumán.\n\nThe Assembly began the deliberations on December 1824. Manuel Antonio Castro and Narciso Laprida were the president and vicepresident of it. The assembly first drafted a \"Fundamental law\", that confirmed it as a constituent assembly and temporarily appointed the governor of Buenos Aires Province as the head of state of the country, until the formal creation of one. The provinces ratified that they would be part of a same country, and would retain their local institutions until the sanction of new ones. To avoid the resistances caused by the 1819 constitution, the 7º article clarified that the new constitution would not come into force until it was accepted by the provinces.\n\nThe Assembly approved a treaty of friendship with Britain in 1825, with the British recognition to the 1816 Argentine declaration of independence. It also allowed British subjects to keep their religion, and to build their own churches and cemeteries. The treaty also ended the commerce of slaves. The Congress accepted as well the declaration of independence of the provinces of the Upper Peru, which became a new country, named Bolivia after the liberator Simón Bolívar.\n\nThe Luso-Brazilian invasion was resisted by the local population of the Banda Oriental, and the Thirty-Three Orientals began a rebellion against the Brazilian forces. They called the Congress of La Florida, rejecting the Brazilian annexation and requesting the reincorporation into the United Provinces. The request was accepted in the Assembly with the unanimous votes of the Argentine provinces. The government of Buenos Aires informed the Brazilian emperor Pedro I of this resolution, and that the national armies would only react in self-defense. The emperor then declared war on the United Provinces.\n\nAs a result of the war, the Assembly took several related resolutions, aiming to strength the military and centralize the power. It began with the legal organization of the Armed Forces of the Argentine Republic, the national wealth and a national bank. The assembly changed as well the number of people represented by the representatives, from 15,000 to 7,500. This allowed each province to duplicate their number of representatives. However, several representatives were not from the provinces that they represented: Manuel Dorrego and Manuel Moreno, both from Buenos Aires, represented Santiago del Estero and the Banda Oriental, thanks to the increased numbers.\n\nJuan Gregorio de las Heras resigned as governor of Buenos Aires, so Elías Bedoya, representative of Córdoba, proposed a law to create a stable head of state figure, the President of the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata. This proposal was opposed by Manuel Moreno, who considered that the definitive head of state should only be appointed once the constitution was finished and clearly outlined duration, attributions and system of election; in the meantime the head of state should still be provisory. However, his opinion was in the minority. The new law was sanctioned on February 6, 1826. The president was elected immediately: Bernardino Rivadavia, with 35 votes. Carlos María de Alvear, Juan Antonio Lavalleja and Juan Antonio Álvarez de Arenales got a single vote each one. Juan Bautista Bustos, governor of Córdoba, rejected the appointment of Rivadavia, and his province retired from the Assembly.\n\nRivadavia proposed a bill to declare Buenos Aires the capital city of the country. This proposal was widely rejected, both by the other provinces and by the representatives of Buenos Aires. With this proposal, the Buenos Aires Province would cease to exist. The city, all things inside it (such as the port) and a territory around it would belong to the national government. The institutions of the Buenos Aires province would be abolished, and the remaining territory would be divided into two provinces. The law was approved, despite of the high resistance to it. Las heras resigned as governor, and the Buenos Aires legislature was closed.\n\nThe Assembly asked the provinces to select the type of government. The support to republicanism was absolute, nobody desired a monarchy; but the dispute of centralism or federalism was still divisive. Some provinces selected the federal organization and others the centralist organization; most members of the Assembly were centralists.\n\n"}
{"id": "623760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623760", "title": "Association of American Law Schools", "text": "Association of American Law Schools\n\nThe Association of American Law Schools (AALS), formed in 1900, is a non-profit organization of 179 law schools in the United States. These member schools enroll and graduate most of the nation's lawyers. AALS incorporated as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit educational organization in 1971. Its headquarters are in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe plenary legislative body of AALS is the House of Representatives, composed of one representative from each member school, selected by faculty from that school. A 10-member Executive Committee leads AALS. It is composed of the President, Immediate Past President and President-Elect, six other elected members and, ex officio, the AALS Executive Director. The Executive Committee has the responsibility for conducting the association's affairs in the interim between the annual meetings of the House of Representatives, which elects the officers and other Executive Committee members.\n\nThe AALS Annual Meeting is a four-day gathering of law teachers, librarians, and administrators from law schools in the U.S. and other countries. Since the 1970s, the conference has taken place in early January, rotating its location among several large U.S. cities including New York City, New Orleans, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C. Programs at the conference explore professional development topics, legal issues, and administrative concerns. Legal educators use the conference to connect with their colleagues from other law schools and countries around matters of common interest.\n\nAALS hosts a number of events throughout the year. The annual AALS Conference on Clinical Legal Education has become a mainstay of the association's activities with the 2015 conference having almost 700 clinicians in attendance. The conference's sessions focus on practice areas and common areas of concern for clinicians.\n\nEvery summer, AALS offers the New Law School Teachers Conference in Washington, D.C. This meeting provides professional development and networking opportunities to law faculty in their first few years of teaching, including clinical and legal writing teachers.\n\nAALS periodically holds other meetings focused on professional development concerns. Recent topics have included torts, environmental law, constitutional law, intellectual property, family law, and business law.\n\nEach year, AALS compiles the Faculty Appointments Register (FAR) from information submitted by candidates for entry-level, tenure-track law teaching jobs. Law school hiring teams review this information and invite candidates to screening interviews at the Faculty Recruitment Conference held each fall in Washington, D.C. Successful candidates are then invited to interview at the schools interested in hiring them.\n\nAALS also publishes the Placement Bulletin which lists available faculty and administrative positions, as well as positions related to legal education outside of law schools. Individuals who are registered for the FAR may access the Placement Bulletin online; others can order the publication separately.\n\nAALS disseminates news and information about law schools' innovations and acts as a voice for legal education to prospective law students, faculty, the media, and the public. The association leadership is frequently called on to articulate issues in legal education, from the value of a law degree to what law schools are doing to support diversity. AALS engages with the media and the public on the latest changes and challenges facing the law academy and how law schools are responding.\n\nThe association's YouTube channel hosts content from member schools, select AALS Annual Meeting sessions, and other videos related to legal education.\n\nAALS publishes the AALS Directory of Law Teachers, the \"desk book\" of deans and law teachers. The directory lists by school the full-time faculty and professional staff of all AALS member and fee-paid law schools, and contains biographical sketches of 10,000 full-time teachers.\n\nThe \"Journal of Legal Education\", published by AALS since 1948, addresses issues confronting legal educators, including curriculum development, teaching methods, and scholarship. It serves as an outlet for emerging areas of scholarship and teaching. Currently, the journal is co-published by Northeastern University School of Law and University of Washington School of Law, with the schools providing editorial leadership and administrative support.\n\nAALS also jointly sponsors the \"Clinical Law Review\", a semi-annual, peer-edited journal devoted to issues of lawyering theory and clinical legal education. The Review is edited, administered, and financially supported by New York University School of Law and jointly sponsored by the Clinical Legal Education Association (CLEA).\n\nFour times a year, AALS publishes AALS News, a newsletter that keeps readers informed of AALS activities and topics of interest to the legal academy.\n\nThe AALS requires its members to follow a nondiscrimination policy regarding \"race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, or sexual orientation,\" and for member law schools to require this of any employer to which it gives access for recruitment.\n\nThe United States Armed Forces \"don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT) policy was seen by the AALS as impermissible discrimination. However, the AALS excused its members from blocking access to the military since the passage of the Solomon Amendments, which denies federal funding to the parent university of a law school as well as the school itself if military recruiters are not given full campus access. However, the AALS at the time required schools to take \"ameliorative\" measures when allowing military recruiters on campus, including placing \"warning\" signs on campus when military recruiting takes place, scheduling interviews off campus away from \"core\" areas, \"prohibit[ing] entirely the delivery of discretionary support services\" to military recruiters, charging military employers who use law school resources \"reasonable fees for use of law school staff, facilities and services,\" etc. The AALS at the time encouraged law schools to deny benefits to military recruiters that they would ordinarily provide employers, such as coffee and free parking. Specifically, the AALS wrote in a memo to all law school deans in the United States:\n\nThe AALS engaged in litigation challenging the Solomon Amendments as violative of the First Amendment (see e.g., \"Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic and Institutional Rights, Inc.\"). In an interesting coincidence, The Judge Advocate General's School of the United States Army is a fee-paying nonmember of AALS.\n\nAlthough DADT has been ended, and although President Barack Obama called upon college campuses to welcome military recruiters during his State of the Union Speech (1/25/11), some law professors have questioned why the AALS has issued no statement declaring an end to its recommendations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16734943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16734943", "title": "Association of Christian Schools International v. Roman Stearns", "text": "Association of Christian Schools International v. Roman Stearns\n\nAssociation of Christian Schools International v. Stearns was filed in spring 2006 by Association of Christian Schools International against the University of California claiming religious discrimination over the rejection of five courses as college preparatory instruction. On August 8, 2008, Judge S. James Otero entered summary judgment against plaintiff ACSI, upholding the University of California's standards.\n\nThe suit filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California alleged that the university system's rejection of several courses, including a history course, a government course, and science courses, was \"viewpoint discrimination\" that violated the constitutional rights of applicants from Christian schools whose high school coursework is deemed inadequate preparation for college. The books in particular were published by A Beka Books and Bob Jones University Press. They contained problems such as statements that where science and the Bible contradict, the student must choose the Bible, and judgment of the value of American historical figures on their religion. The UC board concluded that those books did not offer proper preparatory instruction for the university. The lawsuit was brought by the parents of six children who had not been rejected from the university, but were required to take additional, remedial courses. In August 2006, the case was allowed to proceed against the university while lawsuits against individual school officials were thrown out.\n\nThe Association retained leading intelligent design proponent Michael Behe to testify in the case as an expert witness. Behe's expert witness report claimed that the Christian textbooks were excellent works for high school students and he defended that view in a deposition.\n\nOn March 28, 2008, the defendants won a legal victory when their motion for partial summary judgment was granted, and the plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment was denied. In part of the judgment, the court focused on several creationist/intelligent design texts and quoted Behe's testimony against the plaintiffs:\n\nBiologist PZ Myers wrote, \"The judge pointed out that the books that Behe approved flatly state that Christians must accept creationist conclusions—unlike our biology books, which don't demand any religious litmus test of their readers—and were therefore perfect examples of exactly the problem he was complaining about.\"\n\nThe August 2008 ruling concluded that various books offered by the school shouldn't be used for a college-preparatory history class because \"it didn't encourage critical thinking skills and failed to cover 'major topics, themes and components' of U.S. history\", Otero wrote. The judge said Calvary provided little admissible evidence to the contrary.\n\nOn January 26, 2009, ACSI filed an appeal on the decision. On January 12, 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the federal district court's summary judgment in favor of the University of California. On October 12, 2010, the Supreme Court declined to review the case, effectively ending it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15998912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15998912", "title": "Attachment (law)", "text": "Attachment (law)\n\nAttachment is a legal process by which a court of law, at the request of a creditor, designates specific property owned by the debtor to be transferred to the creditor, or sold for the benefit of the creditor. A wide variety of legal mechanisms are employed by debtors to prevent the attachment of their assets. For example, a declaration of bankruptcy will severely limit the ability of creditors to attach the property of the debtor. Many jurisdictions have a homestead exemption or other property exemptions which limit the ability of creditors to attach the debtor's primary residence, vehicle, and/or personal effects..\n\nPrejudgment attachment or Prejudgment writ of attachment allows recovery of money damages by levying a security interest on the property of the party paying money damages. A writ of attachment is filed to secure debt or claim of the creditor in the event that a judgment is rendered.\n\nForeign attachment procedures have existed from time to time in Scotland, where it was known as \"arrestment\", in France, where it was known as \"saisie arret\", in the U.S and elsewhere.\n\nPrejudgment attachment in Chinese litigation proceeding can be obtained by the plaintiff before filing the case with court or arbitration commission in the case of emergency where failure to take immediate action will result in irreparable damage to relevant party. However, the party shall file its case with court or arbitration body within thirty days after the prejudgment attachment is granted by courts.\n\nThe person holding the property or owing the money had to be within the City at the time of being served with the process, but all persons were entitled to the benefit of the custom. The plaintiff having started the action, and made a satisfactory affidavit of his debt, was entitled to issue attachment, which thereupon affected all the money or property of the defendant in the hands of the third party, the garnishee. The garnishee had all the defences which would be available to him against the defendant, his alleged creditor. If there had been no fraud or collusion, the garnishee could plead payment under the attachment. The court to which this process belonged was the Lord Mayor's Court, the procedure of which was regulated by the Mayor's Court of London Procedure Act 1857. This custom, and all proceedings relating to it, were expressly exempted from the operation of the Debtor's Act 1869.\n\nAttachment of earnings, also known as garnishment, is a process whereby the creditor attaches money owed to the debtor by the debtor's employer.\n\n"}
{"id": "10653179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10653179", "title": "Babcock v. Jackson", "text": "Babcock v. Jackson\n\nBabcock v. Jackson, 191 N.E.2d 279, 12 N.Y.2d 473 (N.Y. 1963) is a landmark U.S. case on conflict of laws. \n\nA husband and wife from New York went on a car trip with a friend Babcock to Ontario. While in Ontario they had a motor vehicle accident. Babcock sued Jackson, the driver, claiming his negligence caused the car crash. \n\nThis case brought up a question of ‘choice of law’; if the law of the place of residence of the accident victims (New York) be applied, or, should the law of the place of the tort (Ontario) be applied. Under the old conflict rules, the law of the place of the accident should apply. However, Ontario had a law that prohibited passengers from suing the driver.\n\nThe court rejected a traditional fixed method of determining which law should apply, and instead, a process of weighing factors such as relationship between the party, decision to take the trip, connections to the locality. Thus, the Court held that the parties did not have substantial connection with Ontario and so it would be unfair to apply the law as the location was largely fortuitous. The Court found that the jurisdiction with the most connections was New York and so New York law should apply.\n"}
{"id": "46543281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46543281", "title": "Baha'i perspective on international human rights", "text": "Baha'i perspective on international human rights\n\nBahá’u’lláh, the prophet-founder of the Bahá’í Faith, called for global agreement on human rights protection nearly eighty years before the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) in 1948. He taught that an “equal standard of human rights must be recognized and adopted.” \nBahá’u’lláh called for governments to protect the human rights of their populations and to ensure their welfare. To safeguard human rights, He urged global leaders to establish a world commonwealth that would include a system of collective security to protect populations against tyranny and oppression.\n\nThe Bahá’í Writings make clear that human rights are not merely a political or social concept that is contingent on recognition by governments. Rather, the Bahá’í perspective is that human rights exist with or without governments; indeed, they are a divine endowment flowing from the creation of all human beings with the potential to reflect the attributes of God. All human beings have for this reason an equal spiritual dignity. Accordingly, governments have a moral obligation to respect this divine endowment, an obligation that would exist even in the absence of treaties or customary legal norms obligating them to do so. Bahá’u’lláh impressed upon rulers this sacred duty: “For is it not your clear duty to restrain the tyranny of the oppressor, and to deal equitably with your subjects, that your high sense of justice may be fully demonstrated to all mankind? God hath committed into your hands the reins of the government of the people, that ye may rule with justice over them, safeguard the rights of the down-trodden, and punish the wrong-doers.” These are divinely-ordained responsibilities that no government can legitimately shirk.\nBahá’u’lláh also teaches that because of this equal spiritual dignity, all human beings are members of a single human family that should be unified. This means that all should treat one another as brothers and sisters, and in turn honor and respect the rights of all other human beings, not only as co-equals, but as spiritual relatives. He declares, “Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch.” Recognition of this fundamental connectedness is a precondition, according to the Bahá’í teachings, for the full realization of human rights. Bahá’u’lláh asserts in this connection: “The well-being of mankind, its peace and security, are unattainable unless and until its unity is firmly established.” Human Rights will remain no more than a morally \nadmirable concept so long as they are not anchored in such an appreciation for human unity. That unity provides the impetus, the motivation, the will, to uphold and defend the rights of others. And it implies that human rights are the concern of everyone, not just governments.\n\nThe earliest use of the terminology of human rights in publications by Bahá’í institutions coincided with the inception of their official relationship with the United Nations. Three of the first four documents submitted to the newly established international organization in 1947 and 1948 were statements on various aspects of human rights intended as contributions to the preparatory work on the UDHR. The first of these was an eight-page statement entitled “A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and Rights” which was presented to the Human Rights Commission in February 1947 on behalf of eight national Bahá’í administrative bodies.\nThe Bahá’í International Community (BIC) explains that concern for human rights can be found throughout the Bahá’í Writings. Bahá’u’lláh, urged the rulers of the earth to “rule with justice ... safeguard the rights of the down-trodden, and punish the wrong-doers.” He taught that “there shall be an equality of rights and prerogatives for all mankind.”\n\nShoghi Effendi, the authorized interpreter of Baha’u’llah’s teachings, states that:\n“[t]he unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, implies the establishment of a world commonwealth in which ... the autonomy of its state members and the personal freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely and completely safeguarded. This commonwealth must, as far as we can visualize it, consist of a world legislature, whose members will, as the trustees of the whole of mankind, ultimately control the entire resources of all the component nations, and will enact such laws as shall be required to regulate the life, satisfy the needs and adjust the relationships of all races and peoples.”\n\nMoreover, in \"The Promise of World Peace\", the Universal House of Justice (the supreme governing institution of the Faith) underscores the importance of the UDHR and its related conventions, asserting that “all such measures, if courageously enforced and expanded, will advance the day when the specter of war will have lost its power to dominate international relations.”\n\nBahá’í views on human rights are based on the concept that every person is essentially a spiritual being endowed by the Creator with talents and capacities, and that the purpose of life is to realize that potential for the benefit of society as well as the individual concerned. The equal dignity of all human beings and the need for both solidarity and legal equality among them are clearly posited in many passages of the Bahá’í sacred scriptures. These ideas are encapsulated in the concept of the “oneness of mankind”, which is described as the “pivot round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh revolve”.\n\nThe Bahá’í community plays an active role in enhancing a culture of human rights. Scores of statements on various aspects of human rights have been released since the presentation of “A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and Rights” in 1947. The Bahá’í community is dedicated to the integration of human rights in every aspect of global community life and favours education as the main approach to the promotion and protection of human rights.\n\nGender equality is a fundamental principle of the Bahá’í Faith. Baha’i belief states that the equality of the sexes is a spiritual and moral standard that is essential for the unification of the planet and the unfoldment of peace. The Bahá'í teachings note the importance of implementing the principle in individual, family, and community life. \nThe BIC has released various statements on gender equality and particularly the role of women. In 1947, a statement entitled “Elimination of Discrimination Against women” was presented to the 25th session of United Nations Commission on Human Rights on the Status of Women. As part of the statement, the BIC emphasized that the Baha'i Writings stress the principle of equality of education for men and women, as well as that of compulsory universal education, and elaborate the responsibilities of parents and of Bahá’í institutions to ensure equal opportunities in the education of children. In fact it is stated that if parents are not able to educate both boy and girl, the girl should be given preference because she is the future mother and first educator of the child.\n\nFor the International Women's Year in 1975, the BIC released a pamphlet entitled “Equality of Men and Woman: A New Reality” which stated that equality of the sexes is, for Bahá’ís, a spiritual and moral standard essential for the unification of the planet and the unfoldment of world order. Without the qualities, talents, and skills of both women and men, full economic and social development of the planet becomes impossible. For \"[t]he world of humanity is possessed of two wings — the male and the female. So long as these two wings are not equivalent in strength the bird will not fly. Until womankind reaches the same degree as man, until she enjoys the same arena of activity, extraordinary attainment for humanity will not be realized; humanity cannot wing its way to heights of real attainment.\"\n\nIn a statement in 2008 entitled “Eradicating Poverty: Moving Forward as One”, the BIC offered two principles as guides for efforts in the realm of poverty eradication: justice and unity. They emphasised that these principles underlie a vision of development in which material progress serves as a vehicle for the moral and cultural advancement of humanity. Justice provides the means capable of harnessing human potential to eradicate poverty from our midst, through the implementation of laws, the adjustment of economic systems, the redistribution of wealth and opportunity, and unfailing adherence to the highest ethical standards in private and public life. Unity assures that progress is systemic and relational, that a concern for the integrity of the family unit and the local, national, and global community must guide poverty alleviation efforts.\n\nFurthermore, in 2010 in their contribution to the 18th session of United Nations Commission on Human Rights on sustainable development, Bahá’í International Community (BIC) challenged the assumption that human beings are slaves to self-interest and consumerism. In the statement “Rethinking Prosperity: Forging Alternatives to a Culture of Consumerism”, they state that the transition to sustainable consumption and production is part of a global enterprise which enables all individuals to fulfill their dual purpose, namely to develop their inherent potentialities and to contribute to the betterment of the wider community. It is not enough to conceive of sustainable consumption and production in terms of creating opportunities for those living in poverty to meet their basic needs. Rather, with the understanding that each individual has a contribution to make to the construction of a more just and peaceful social order, these processes must be arranged in a way that permits each to play his or her rightful role as a productive member of society. Within such a framework, sustainable consumption and production could be characterized as processes that provide for the material, social and spiritual needs of humanity across generations and enable all peoples to contribute to the ongoing advancement of society.\n\n"}
{"id": "5913549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5913549", "title": "Breed of Horses Act 1535 &amp; Horses Act 1540", "text": "Breed of Horses Act 1535 &amp; Horses Act 1540\n\nThe Breed of Horses Act 1535 and the Horses Act 1540 were pieces of legislation passed by the Parliament of England designed to improve the national stock of horses through equestrian eugenics. They were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863.\n\nThe Breed of Horses Act 1535 (\"27 Henry VIII, c. 6\") mentions a marked decay in the quality of the breed, the cause it is claimed that \"in most places of this Realme little horsis and naggis of small stature and valeu be suffered to depasture and also to covour marys and felys of very small stature\". The statute thus required each owner of enclosed deer-parks to possess a minimum of two mares whose height was to be above thirteen hands high in order for them to be bred with horses of no shorter than fourteen hands high.\n\nThe Horses Act 1540 (\"32 Henry VIII, c.13\") ordered that no stallion under 15 hands (60 inches, 152 cm) and no mare under 13 hands (52 inches, 132 cm) was permitted to run out on common land, or to run wild, and no two-year-old colt under 11.2 hands (46 inches, 117 cm) was allowed to run out in any area with mares. Annual round-ups of the commons were enforced, and any stallion under the height limit was ordered to be destroyed, along with \"all unlikely tits whether mares or foals.\"\n\nThe requirement for swingeing culls of \"under-height\" horses was partially repealed by a statute of Queen Elizabeth I in 1566 (\"8 Elizabeth I, c.8\") on the basis that the poor lands could not support the weight of the horses desired by Henry VIII because of \"their rottenness ... they are not able to breed beare and bring forth such great breeds of stoned horses as by the statute of 32 Henry VIII is expressed, without peril of miring and perishing of them\", and thus many ponies of Britain's mountain and moorland pony breeds in their native environments escaped the slaughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "844785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844785", "title": "Car donation", "text": "Car donation\n\nCar donation is the practice of giving away no-longer-wanted automobiles or other vehicles to charitable organizations. In the United States, these donations can provide a tax benefit.\n\nSome critics have claimed that car donations are essentially a tax shelter. However, non-profit organizations in the US have come to rely increasingly upon the revenue from car donations. This type of donation has become increasingly widespread; in 2000, 733,000 U.S. taxpayers reduced their taxes by $654 million.\n\nAlthough advertised as an easy way to dispose of an old car, donors need to fulfill certain post-donation requirements to qualify for the tax deduction, such as obtaining a written acknowledgment of the car's subsequent sale by the charity, and itemizing tax returns instead of taking the standard deduction.\n\nFor vehicles valued at less than $500, the deduction amount comes from the donor's own estimate of the car's value, even if the charity receives less money from its sale. Deductions greater than $500 are limited to the proceeds of selling the vehicle, usually at auction. The U.S Internal Revenue Service advises that starting in 2005:\n\nCar donation schemes in the UK are slightly different from those operating in the United States and only established themselves as a valued source of income for UK charities in January 2010, led by Giveacar – a non-profit organisation. Operating as a non-profit organisation allows charities to avoid the large overheads created by profit-making car donation companies. In addition, whereas car donation in the US has been incentivised through tax breaks, in the UK there are no such tax benefits to donating your car.\n\nVehicle donations in America are operated in a wide variety of plans, ranging from highly organized and professional-grade not-for-profit, national, or local charities to scrap yards, haulers, tow-truck companies and salvagers who establish programs that may support a charity. According to Charity Navigator, the guidance of the rating agencies concerning car donation programs, where the charity receives a flat fee for the use of their name by a third party, versus program management by a third party,there are some questionable companies who contract to use a nonprofit's agencies name and logo to raise funds and then just give them a flat fee unrelated to income or performance. This is frowned upon by rating agencies and the government. However, a percentage return program is viewed positively if the nonprofit receives more than 50% of the generated income. Programs that engage a third party, but with a \"cost maximum cap\" involved, such as with national charities like the Society of Saint Vincent de Paul, performance in this area is exemplary, with 70-80% on average being returned to the nonprofit.\n\nMany charities run donation programs which accept car donations, such as Goodwill, Salvation Army and even the American Cancer Society. Many charities will use your car donation directly to transport volunteers and supplies to areas that need help. Some even have their own car lots which sell the donated cars but many have their donations processed through auto auction companies. Many processing companies also collect and sell donated cars and distribute the money to a charity the donor indicates. The processing company typically takes a percentage of the sale value of the car, but these programs allow charities without their own facilities or staff dedicated to fund raising to benefit from vehicle donation programs.\n\nIdeally, donors should also investigate how much money from the sale of the car goes to the auction processor and how much actually benefits the charity's programs, as opposed to its administrative overhead.\n"}
{"id": "53830069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53830069", "title": "Climate-friendly school", "text": "Climate-friendly school\n\nA climate-friendly school is a school that uses education for sustainable development (ESD) to promote a culture of sustainability in which students, staff and families hold shared values and beliefs about the importance of taking action for a more sustainable society. Taking care of the environment and contributing to reducing climate change is an integral part of this. Climate action means different things to different schools. Some schools see climate action as key to “doing their part” to take care of the planet. For other schools, it is about addressing issues directly affecting them. For example, several schools in disaster-prone Japan see climate action as a practical way of helping students and their families stay safe and prepare for the future.\n\nIn a whole-school approach, students’ classroom learning about climate change is reinforced by the formal and informal messages promoted by the school’s values and actions. In other words, students and other members of the school community live what they learn, and learn what they live. The whole-school approach to climate change means that an educational institution includes action for reducing climate change in every aspect of school life. This includes school governance, teaching content and methodology, campus and facilities management as well as cooperation with partners and the broader communities. The active involvement of all internal and external school stakeholders, namely students, teachers, principals, school staff at all levels and the wider school community such as families and community members in reflecting and acting on climate change is key to a whole-school approach.\n\nAs an experimental school, the 1st Experimental Lyceum of Athens-Gennadeio is encouraged to introduce innovative programmes. In 2013, the school introduced complex systems into biology and chemistry courses for 157 senior secondary students. In the complex systems unit, students worked in groups to investigate climate change, virus transmission, and ecosystem dynamics with the help of computer simulations. Through their investigations, students discovered the properties of complex systems, such as positive and negative feedback loops. They also had opportunities to apply their learning. For example, a group of students measured the energy sustainability of the school building, to find its weaknesses and construct an action plan to improve it.\n\nAl-Kawthar Secondary School works to raise awareness of climate change within their school. So far, 2,421 students, 310 teachers, and 110 families have been involved in projects including tree-planting, making handicrafts from recycled materials, visiting national forests, recycling, and conserving water. The school also hosted film nights and workshops where students, families and teachers suggested ways to save the planet. Following the ISO-26000 guidelines for socially responsible institutions, the school has committed to a continuous process of improvement. At the beginning of the school year, the environmental committee develops an action plan based on what was learned and achieved the previous year. The committee keeps a record of their activities, so the school can identify high-impact activities and activities that could be scaled up. Teachers and students deepen their learning by sharing their experiences with other schools in Lebanon and around the world.\n\nIn Côte d'Ivoire, one of the most widespread uses of forest resources is in traditional medicine which is of vital importance with regard to primary health care and contributes to preserving traditional knowledge and cultural heritage. Realizing that the biodiversity of their forests is under threat, the ASPnet schools, together with university researchers and medical practitioners, united their forces to come to the rescue of the forest resources in Côte d'Ivoire. The schools promote botanical gardens where parents as well as traditional medicine practitioners teach students how to conserve and manage forest resources in a more sustainable way. Through the study visits in the botanical garden, students acquire traditional knowledge of medicinal plant cultivation which will enable them to identify, protect, preserve and promote the medicinal plants which have tremendous ecological and cultural importance in Côte d'Ivoire. In collaboration with the experts and researchers, the ASPnet schools are now considering creating a genebank as well as replanting endangered species.\n\nColégio Israelita Brasileiro A. Liessen's environment team has invited janitors, teachers, students, engineers and others to participate in experiential, non-formal learning activities. They created a green roof, built solar ovens and bamboo bicycle racks, planted spice, flower, and meditation gardens, and converted used cooking oil into biodiesel. These activities have created bonds between different members of the school community, awakened a sense of belonging and pride in the school, and built an environment where ideas and information are shared freely. The environment team has also offered trainings for school community members in order to secure buy-in for the projects. For example, training on waste sorting and cooking oil collection was offered to employees. Also, a gardening workshop was organized for student volunteers, so they could assist maintenance staff in caring for the expanding school gardens.\n\nThanks to a partnership with a local non-profit organization, Endrupskolen School offers students inspiring and hands-on learning experiences. Eight times throughout the school year, students visit gardens, farms and kitchens run by the non-profit organization “Haver til Maver.” During each visit, classes meet experts such as farmers, cooks, biologists or gardeners who guide students in exploring plants, trees, vegetables, smells and tastes. According to Endrupskolen teachers, these visits have given students the skills and commitment needed to build better food futures for themselves, their families and society as a whole. In addition, learning outside the traditional classroom has helped students develop better relationships with their peers and a better sense of self-esteem.\n\nThe Nagoya International School is committed to developing a school culture of sustainability, as expressed in their school mission statement. The institution aims to “nurture in its students the capacity to objectively define what is truly needed in the global society, to take action on their own, and to become active agents for sustainable development.”\n\nTokyo Global Engineering Corporation is an education-services organization that provides capstone education programs free of charge to engineering students and other stakeholders. These programs are intended to complement—but not to replace—coursework required by academic degree programs of study. The programs are educational opportunities, and students are not paid money for their participation. All correspondence among members is completed via e-mail, and all meetings are held via Skype, with English as the language of instruction and publication. Students and other stakeholders are never asked to travel or leave their geographic locations, and are encouraged to publish organizational documents in their personal, primary languages, when English is a secondary language.\n\n"}
{"id": "58781679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58781679", "title": "Commission of Inquiry in Algeria", "text": "Commission of Inquiry in Algeria\n\nThe Ad Hoc Inquiry Commission in Charge of the Question of Disappearances was a truth commission created in 2003 to investigate about disappeared people during a civil conflict. Its creation took place after the current president, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, was elected and after he set up a National Human Rights Institution. Then, the commission was linked in order to give people the truth about what happened in the 1990s. However, its report was not made public and consequently Algerians are not aware of their relatives' fate.\n\nSince Algeria's independence in 1962, the army have played an important role in the political life of Algeria:\"It was often sardonically remarked by Algerians that while every state has an army, in Algeria the army had a state.\"Military forces had fought against French rule for independence, then an authoritarian regime was put in place in 1962. It was led by the Front de Libération Nationale who worked with the army. Until President Houari Boumédiène's death in 1978, the military forces had been under control. Then, they came to power and chose \"'their\" man as President, leaving to the FLN the sole task of running the administration\". In 1979, Chadli Bendjedid was elected president. In 1991, seeing that the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), an Islamic party, was about to win the next election, the army officially took power, leaving no place to political parties and cancelled the future election. President Chadli Bendjedid dissolved the People's National Assembly and resigned. \n\nThis marked the beginning of the civil war. A temporary government, the High Council of State, was put in place, initially led by Mohamed Boudiaf. But he was assassinated six months later and left his place to Ali Kafi. Kafi was in power until the dissolution of the High Council of State and was succeeded by Liamine Zéroual. During this period, extremist militias such like Groupe Islamique Armé rose because they disagreed with the decisions taken about the election. They started to show violence against police, military and civilians, including terrorist attacks. Therefore, a state of emergency was declared. Islamic people began to disappear, to be killed and to be forced to move. Islamic people were chosen randomly. In other words, they could or could not be linked with any militias or act of violence. \n\nIn 1999, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was close to Boumédiène, was elected president and ended the war. Islamic groups agreed to lay down their weapons for Algeria to become at peace again. At the end of the conflict, more than 150,000 deaths and 7,000 disappearances were registered.\n\nIn 2003, President Abdelaziz Bouteflika put in place a commission to investigate past crimes. It was called “Ad Hoc Inquiry Commission in Charge of the Question of Disappearances\". It was made up of six commissioners, five men and one woman, all Algerian. They were all chosen by the President. The aim of the commission was truth-seeking, especially to know what happened to the disappeared people. It was also meant to plan and give reparations to the families of the victims. However, it is said that the commission functioned more as \"a ‘management centre' and interface between families of the disappeared and the Algerian public administration\" than a commission of investigation.\n\nIn 2005, the President called a referendum to approve the Charter for Peace and National Reconciliation (CPNR). It came out of a previous law enacted in 1999 which \"promoted peace and national reconciliation\". With this law, Islamist groups agreed to stop violence, expecting a peaceful state. The charter was approved in the referendum, with 96% in favour. In effect, Algerians accepted amnesty. However, the opposition maintained that the approval was \"the result of the government's programme of propaganda\".\n\nTherefore this charter aimed at peacemaking and granting amnesty to murderers and criminals. They all could to get through it unscathed, whether they were considered terrorists or not. There were exceptions for crimes like \"massacres, rapes and bombings in public places.\" The word \"terrorism\" does not appear in this charter. The past events were qualified as a \"national tragedy\", a way for the government not to denounce and condemn their criminals but also to promote peace. The Algerian government has considered reconciliation through forgiveness.\n\nThe charter also stipulates that anyone who continues to speak about this period twill be imprisoned for a period from 3 to 5 years and have a fine to pay. \"In 2017, a law was adopted, it forbids to mention the \"national tragedy\" whether for analysis or reflective reason.\" said Karima Dirèche, a franco-algerian historian.Even journalists, foreign or not, can have trouble if they try to investigate and know what happened and what is being done to improve the situation. All of these measures emphasize a collective amnesia—people are forced not to talk about it.\n\nHowever, the charter also returned to past arrests. Indeed, people who had been accused of terrorism and punished could be given back their civil rights or their relatives could be compensated.\n\nThe charter specifies that reparations should be made to the victims. Therefore, since 2006, the government has paid reparations of about $37 million USD. More than 2,000 families were paid, but only if they could provide a death certificate. However, several families refused to acknowledge that their relatives were dead since no proof was given. \n\nThe focus on reparations was similar to the Equity and Reconciliation Commission in Morocco, where disappearances began under the rule of King Mohammed V after he assumed the throne in 1957.His son, King Hassan II, continued these policies. In the 1990s, under local and international pressure, he established an Advisory Council on Human Rights (CCDH) to investigate human rights violations and provide advice. In 2003, the CCDH asked for the creation of a truth commission to investigate violations in depth. The purpose of the commission was to provide recommendations, medical care and money compensations to the victims. However, the commission did not give any names and was limited in its investigations. It concluded that 742 disappeared people were dead. Several cases remain unsolved, with no answers. Morocco began to offer reparations to victims.\n\nThe commission reported in 2005, but only the President had access to its report. Nevertheless, Chairman Farouk Ksentini declared that the state was held responsible for about 6,146 disappearances and deaths.\n\nCherida Khaddar reported that she had seen her brother and her sister die in front of her eyes. She is the head of the non-governmental organization Djazairouna. She commemorates the victims of the civil war with other families on March 8 and tries and denounce the government but she often ends at the police station and is mistreated.\nDjazairouna is an association made to help victims of terrorism in Algeria. The victims can receive any type of help : clothes, food or money, from insofar as possible. Members of associations also tries to visit the victims who have been hospitalized. They also bring a psychological support and accompany them in all the steps they undertake, judicial or not.\n\"Bouteflika in promising peace to the Algerians, had 'ended the dreams of truth and justice for thousands of families of the disappeared'\"This is what Nacéra Dutour argued about the charter, illustrating the victims' state of mind. The victims and their family disagreed with the outcome of the Inquiry Commission and rejected the charter.\n\nDutour founded SOS Disparus, an association for the disappeared, chaired by her mother Fatima Yous. Before creating this organization, Dutour had worked with international groups in France. Her involvement in this crisis is due to the fact that her son had been arrested while fasting during Ramadan whereas he was not involved in politics and tried to become a taxi driver. Every Wednesday her association demonstrates in front of the Parliament to claim their rights. They called for an efficient commission which would denounce what had happened and condemn the perpetrators. They wanted justice. As Cherifa Khaddar points out:“We want the courts to deal with those who ordered and those who carried out acts of violence, even if Mr Bouteflika later pardons them,”Nacéra Dutour adds : \"[a referendum could not] 'be the means by which a government evades its international obligations.'\".At the end, apart from monetary compensation, Algerian people have not obtained redress. As a consequence, a lot of families are stuck between two states of mind: remaining silent about what happened or denouncing it and taking the risk of being arrested and imprisoned.\n\nMany Algerians continue to seek the truth about the disappeared even if no retributive justice takes place. On the other hand, prosecuting is a hard task since there is not enough evidence to prove someone's responsibility. Farouk Ksentini, the President of the National Consultative Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, stated that most information about disappearances come from the families, with very few witnesses. Moreover, with the report of the commission not being public, the issue is the \"Algerian authorities' obstruction of any investigation, even non-judicial, into past atrocities.\"\n\nWomen play a significant role in Algeria. Their place in Algerian society goes back to Algerian War for independence where they could be solicited to place bombs in the Europeans areas. Akila Ouared, who was an agent in Front de Libération National (FLN) during Algerian War reported: “We women were always there at the helm.”Nowadays, as only men disappeared and were killed during the civil war, women have to take their position in society. This is the reason why women's groups have arisen, such as Djazairouna and SOS Disparus. \n\nDuring the Algerian Civil War, no countries intervened because it was thought that the army was doing the right thing in order to prevent the rise of Islamic groups. Countries such like France or the United States were afraid of the impact of groups as Islamic Salvation Front on Western affairs: \"the FIS would pose serious threats to the West's economic and security interests in the region\".\n\nNevertheless, in 2007 a conference called \"Truth, Peace and Conciliation\" was held. The Algerians invited international experts to the conference, but they were refused visas or otherwise barred from entry.\n"}
{"id": "39829438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39829438", "title": "Commissioner of Bankruptcy (England and Wales)", "text": "Commissioner of Bankruptcy (England and Wales)\n\nA Commissioner of Bankruptcy (England and Wales) was, from 1571 to 1883, an official appointed (initially by commission of the Lord Chancellor) to administer the estate of a bankrupt with full power to dispose of all his lands and tenements. Bankrupts were defined as insolvent persons engaged in trade or business and kept distinct from other insolvents until 1861. The proceedings of that administration were the distribution of the property of an insolvent person to that person's creditors in proportion to the debts.\n\nThe first formal regulation of the distribution of the property of an insolvent person to that person's creditors was by the Statute of Bankrupts 1542. Administration was delegated to certain members of the Privy Council and the chief justices of King's Bench and Common Pleas.\n\nUnder the Bankrupts Act 1571 administration was passed to \"commissioners of bankrupts\" appointed by and superintended by the Lord Chancellor, or Lord Keeper. Their \"Office of the Commissioners of Bankrupts\" was attached to the Court of Chancery.\n\nA separate Court of Bankruptcy was established in 1831 under the Bankruptcy Court (England) Act 1831 to replace those commissioners. The court consisted of four judges and only six commissioners. A decade later district courts were established and any person could obtain protection from either of those courts if he or she vested all property in an official assignee. In 1861 the Court of Bankruptcy was confined to London and was afterwards known as the London Court of Bankruptcy.\n\nIt was merged with the High Court by the Bankruptcy Act 1883.\n\nFrom 1842 under the Bankruptcy Act 1842 persons not being a trader or being a trader and owing less than £300 could obtain the protection of the official assignee from this court in London or one of the district courts of bankruptcy. Jurisdiction of this court passed to the Court of Bankruptcy in 1861.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Act 1883 transferred jurisdiction to the High Court and County Courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27966943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27966943", "title": "Concordat of 2008", "text": "Concordat of 2008\n\nThe Concordat of 2008 was an agreement between the Catholic Church and Brazil, signed in the Vatican in the presence of the President of Brazil, Luiz da Silva on 13 November 2008.\n\nIt was the clause on religious instruction that aroused the greatest controversy. Instead of non-sectarian religious education regulated by the educational authorities, which was laid down by the Education Act (LDB), Article 11 of the concordat permits the introduction into state schools of Catholic catechism under the control of the Church. This encountered opposition because Brazil has a diverse religious landscape, which includes not only the major world religions, but also Afro-Brazilian ones like Candomblé and the indigenous religions of the Amazon rainforest. The Ministry of Education feared that introduction of sectarian religious instruction in state schools could jeopardize the Brazilian policy of religious inclusiveness.\n\n"}
{"id": "43377106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43377106", "title": "Copyright law of Bangladesh", "text": "Copyright law of Bangladesh\n\nThe basic legal instrument governing copyright law in Bangladesh is the Copyright Act, 2000. It is largely based on Pakistan's \"Copyright Ordinance, 1962\".\n\nAccording to section 15 copyright subsists in\nand includes computer programmes (cf. s. 14 sub-s. 2) as well as addresses and speeches (cf. s. 17 cl. d).\n\nForeign works are covered by section 69 read with the \"International Copyright Order, 2005\".\n\nThe first owner of copyright in general is author (exceptions: works for hire, Government works; s. 17).\nThe owner of copyright may assign the copyright (s. 18) or grant any interest in the copyright by license (s. 48). Licenses may also be granted by the Copyright Board (ss. 50–54).\n\nRegistration of copyright with the Copyright Office is not obligatory, but if registration has taken place the Register of Copyrights gives \"prima facie\" evidence of the particulars entered therein (s. 60).\n\nCopyright in a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work published within the lifetime of the author subsists until 60 years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the author dies (\"p.m.a.\"; s. 24).\n\nCopyright in a cinematographic film (s. 26), a sound recording (s. 27), a photograph (s. 28), a computer programme (s. 28A) or a work of the Government, a local authority or an international organisation (ss. 30–32) subsists until 60 years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the publication of the work.\n\nCopyright means \"inter alia\" the exclusive right\n\nIn addition, special moral rights lie with the author (s. 78) as well as a \"droit de suite\" (s. 23).\n\nWhen copyright is infringed (s. 71), the owner of copyright (as well as the exclusive licensee) is entitled to certain civil remedies (injunction, damages, accounts; s. 76). Jurisdiction lies with the court of District Judge of the place where the person instituting the proceeding resides or carries on business (s. 81).\n\nInfringing copies are deemed to be the property of the owner of the copyright, who accordingly may take proceedings for the recovery of possession thereof or in respect of the conversion thereof (s. 79). Infringing copies may be seized by the police (s. 93) and can be forbidden to be imported (s. 74).\n\nCopyright infringement may also lead to criminal charges (ss. 82 to 91) to be tried by no court inferior to that of a Court of Sessions (s. 92).\n\nCertain acts are said not to constitute an infringement of copyright (s. 72). These include \"inter alia\"\n\nRelated rights include the \"broadcast reproduction right\" of broadcasting organisations (s. 33; term 25 years), the \"performer's right\" (s. 35; term: 50 years) and the right of \"publishers\" relating to the typographical arrangement of their editions (s. 38; term: 25 years).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25327122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25327122", "title": "Courvoisier v. Raymond", "text": "Courvoisier v. Raymond\n\nCourvoisier v. Raymond, 23 Colo. 113 (1896), was a case decided by the Colorado Supreme Court that affirmed the use of a reasonableness standard when determining the validity of a mistaken self-defense.\n\nCourvoisier was a jewelry store owner, and he was awoken in the middle of the night when robbers tried to break into his store. He retrieved his revolver and chased them outside. Raymond was a Denver police officer who began to approach Courvoisier, and Courvoisier shot him. Courvoisier said that he mistook Raymond for a robber, but the trial court found for Raymond.\n\nThe Colorado Supreme Court reversed the decision for Raymond because of faulty jury instructions in the trial court. The trial court failed to give the instruction that Courvoisier should not be held liable if his mistake that Raymond was a robber was reasonable given the circumstances.\n"}
{"id": "152835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152835", "title": "Debt", "text": "Debt\n\nDebt is when something, usually money, is owed by one party, the borrower or debtor, to a second party, the lender or creditor. Debt is a deferred payment, or series of payments, that is owed in the future, which is what differentiates it from an immediate purchase. The debt may be owed by sovereign state or country, local government, company, or an individual. Commercial debt is generally subject to contractual terms regarding the amount and timing of repayments of principal and interest. Loans, bonds, notes, and mortgages are all types of debt. The term can also be used metaphorically to cover moral obligations and other interactions not based on economic value. For example, in Western cultures, a person who has been helped by a second person is sometimes said to owe a \"debt of gratitude\" to the second person.\n\nThe English term \"debt\" was first used in the late 13th century. The term \"debt\" comes from \"dette, from Old French dete, from Latin debitum \"thing owed,\" neuter past participle of debere \"to owe,\" originally, \"keep something away from someone,\" from de- \"away\" (see de-) + habere \"to have\" (see habit (n.)). Restored spelling [was used] after c. 1400. The related term \"debtor\" was first used in English also in the early 13th century; the terms \"dettur, dettour, [came] from Old French detour, from Latin debitor \"a debter,\" from past participle stem of debere;...The -b- was restored in later French, and in English c. 1560-c. 1660.\" In the King James Bible, various spellings are used; the spellings \"detter [are used] three times, debter three times, debtor twice and debtour once.\" \n\nInterest is the fee paid by the borrower to the lender. Interest is calculated as a percentage of the outstanding principal, which percentage is known as an interest rate, and is generally paid periodically at intervals, such as monthly or semi-annually.\n\nInterest rates may be fixed or floating. In floating-rate structures, the rate of interest that the borrower pays during each time period is tied to a benchmark such as LIBOR or, in the case of inflation-indexed bonds, inflation.\n\nThere are many different conventions for calculating interest. Depending on the terms of the debt, compound interest may accumulate at a specific interval. In addition, different day count conventions exist, for example, sometimes each month is considered to have exactly thirty days, such that the interest payment due is the same in each calendar month. The annual percentage rate (APR) is a standardized way to calculate and compare interest rates on an annual basis. Quoting interest rates using APR is required by regulation for most loans to individuals in the United States and United Kingdom.\n\nFor some loans, the amount actually loaned to the debtor is less than the principal sum to be repaid. This may be because upfront fees or points are charged, or because the loan has been structured to be sharia-compliant. The additional principal due at the end of the term has the same economic effect as a higher interest rate.\n\nRiskier borrowers must generally pay higher rates of interest to compensate lenders for taking on the additional risk of default. Debt investors assess the risk of default prior to making a loan, for example through credit scores and corporate and sovereign ratings.\n\nThere are three main ways repayment may be structured: the entire principal balance may be due at the maturity of the loan; the entire principal balance may be amortized over the term of the loan; or the loan may partially amortized during its term, with the remaining principal due as a \"balloon payment\" at maturity. Amortization structures are common in mortgages and credit cards. \n\nDebtors of every type default on their debt from time to time, with various consequences depending on the terms of the debt and the law governing default in the relevant jurisdiction. \nIf the debt was secured by specific collateral, such as a car or home, the creditor may seek to repossess the collateral. In more serious circumstances, individuals and companies may go into bankruptcy.\n\nCommon types of debt owed by individuals and households include mortgage loans, car loans, credit card debt, and income taxes. For individuals, debt is a means of using anticipated income and future purchasing power in the present before it has actually been earned. Commonly, people in industrialized nations use consumer debt to purchase houses, cars and other things too expensive to buy with cash on hand.\n\nPeople are more likely to spend more and get into debt when they use credit cards vs. cash for buying products and services. This is primarily because of the transparency effect and consumer’s \"pain of paying.\" The transparency effect refers to the fact that the further you are from cash (as in a credit card or another form of payment), the less transparent it is and the less you remember how much you spent. The less transparent or further away from cash, the form of payment employed is, the less an individual feels the “pain of paying” and thus is likely to spend more. Furthermore, the differing physical appearance/form that credit cards have from cash may cause them to be viewed as “monopoly” money vs. real money, luring individuals to spend more money than they would if they only had cash available.\n\nBesides these more formal debts, private individuals also lend informally to other people, mostly relatives or friends. One reason for such informal debts is that many people, in particular those who are poor, have no access to affordable credit. Such debts can cause problems when they are not paid back according to expectations of the lending household. In 2011, 8 percent of people in the European Union reported their households has been in arrears, that is, unable to pay as scheduled \"payments related to informal loans from friends or relatives not living in your household\".\n\nA company may use various kinds of debt to finance its operations as a part of its overall corporate finance strategy.\n\nA term loan is the simplest form of corporate debt. It consists of an agreement to lend a fixed amount of money, called the principal sum or principal, for a fixed period of time, with this amount to be repaid by a certain date. In commercial loans interest, calculated as a percentage of the principal sum per year, will also have to be paid by that date, or may be paid periodically in the interval, such as annually or monthly. Such loans are also colloquially called \"bullet loans\", particularly if there is only a single payment at the end – the \"bullet\" – without a \"stream\" of interest payments during the life of the loan.\n\nA syndicated loan is a loan that is granted to companies that wish to borrow more money than any single lender is prepared to risk in a single loan. A syndicated loan is provided by a group of lenders and is structured, arranged, and administered by one or several commercial banks or investment banks known as arrangers. Loan syndication is a risk management tool that allows the lead banks underwriting the debt to reduce their risk and free up lending capacity.\n\nA company may also issue bonds, which are debt securities. Bonds have a fixed lifetime, usually a number of years; with long-term bonds, lasting over 30 years, being less common. At the end of the bond's life the money should be repaid in full. Interest may be added to the end payment, or can be paid in regular installments (known as coupons) during the life of the bond.\n\nA letter of credit or LC can also be the source of payment for a transaction, meaning that redeeming the letter of credit will pay an exporter. Letters of credit are used primarily in international trade transactions of significant value, for deals between a supplier in one country and a customer in another. They are also used in the land development process to ensure that approved public facilities (streets, sidewalks, stormwater ponds, etc.) will be built. The parties to a letter of credit are usually a beneficiary who is to receive the money, the issuing bank of whom the applicant is a client, and the advising bank of whom the beneficiary is a client. Almost all letters of credit are irrevocable, i.e., cannot be amended or canceled without prior agreement of the beneficiary, the issuing bank and the confirming bank, if any. In executing a transaction, letters of credit incorporate functions common to giros and traveler's cheque. Typically, the documents a beneficiary has to present in order to receive payment include a commercial invoice, bill of lading, and a document proving the shipment was insured against loss or damage in transit. However, the list and form of documents is open to imagination and negotiation and might contain requirements to present documents issued by a neutral third party evidencing the quality of the goods shipped, or their place of origin.\n\nCompanies also use debt in many ways to leverage the investment made in their assets, \"leveraging\" the return on their equity. This leverage, the proportion of debt to equity, is considered important in determining the riskiness of an investment; the more debt per equity, the riskier.\n\nGovernments issue debt to pay for ongoing expenses as well as major capital projects. Government debt may be issued by sovereign states as well as by local governments, sometimes known as municipalities.\n\nDebt issued by the government of the United States, called Treasuries, serves as a reference point for all other debt. There are deep, transparent, liquid, and open capital markets for Treasuries. Furthermore, Treasuries are issued in a wide variety of maturities, from one day to thirty years, which facilitates comparing the interest rates on other debt to a security of comparable maturity. In finance, the theoretical \"Risk-free rate\" rate is often approximated by practitioners by using the current yield a Treasury of the same duration.\n\nThe overall level of indebtedness by a government is typically shown as a ratio of debt-to-GDP. This ratio helps to assess the speed of changes in government indebtedness and the size of the debt due.\n\nThe debt service coverage ratio is the ratio of income available to the amount of debt service due (including both interest and principal amortization, if any). The higher the debt service coverage ratio, the more income is available to pay debt service, and the easier and lower-cost it will be for a borrower to obtain financing.\n\nDifferent debt markets have somewhat different conventions in terminology and calculations for income-related metrics. For example, in mortgage lending in the United States, a debt-to-income ratio typically includes the cost of mortgage payments as well as insurance and property tax, divided by a consumer's monthly income. A \"front-end ratio\" of 28% or below, together with a \"back-end ratio\" (including required payments on non-housing debt as well) of 36% or below is also required to be eligible for a conforming loan.\n\nThe loan-to-value ratio is the ratio of the total amount of the loan to the total value of the collateral securing the loan.\n\nFor example, in mortgage lending in the United States, the loan-to-value concept is most commonly expressed as a \"down payment.\" A 20% down payment is equivalent to an 80% loan to value. With home purchases, value may be assessed using the agreed-upon purchase price, and/or an appraisal.\n\nA debt obligation is considered secured if creditors have recourse to specific collateral. Collateral may include claims on tax receipts (in the case of a government), specific assets (in the case of a company) or a home (in the case of a consumer). Unsecured debt comprises financial obligations for which creditors do not have recourse to the assets of the borrower to satisfy their claims.\n\nCredit bureaus collect information about the borrowing and repayment history of consumers. Lenders, such as banks and credit card companies, use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed by lending money to consumers. In the United States, the primary credit bureaus are Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. \n\nDebts owed by governments and private corporations may be rated by rating agencies, such as Moody's, Standard & Poor's, Fitch Ratings, and A. M. Best. The government or company itself will also be given its own separate rating. These agencies assess the ability of the debtor to honor his obligations and accordingly give him or her a credit rating. Moody's uses the letters \"Aaa Aa A Baa Ba B Caa Ca C\", where ratings \"Aa-Caa\" are qualified by numbers 1-3. S&P and other rating agencies have slightly different systems using capital letters and +/- qualifiers. Thus a government or corporation with a high rating would have Aaa rating.\n\nA change in ratings can strongly affect a company, since its cost of refinancing depends on its creditworthiness. Bonds below Baa/BBB (Moody's/S&P) are considered junk or high-risk bonds. Their high risk of default (approximately 1.6 percent for Ba) is compensated by higher interest payments. Bad Debt is a loan that can not (partially or fully) be repaid by the debtor. The debtor is said to default on his debt. These types of debt are frequently repackaged and sold below face value. Buying junk bonds is seen as a risky but potentially profitable investment.\n\nBonds are debt securities, tradeable on a bond market. A country's regulatory structure determines what qualifies as a security. For example, in North America, each security is uniquely identified by a CUSIP for trading and settlement purposes. In contrast, loans are not securities and do not have CUSIPs (or the equivalent). Loans may be sold or acquired in certain circumstances, as when a bank syndicates a loan.\n\nLoans can be turned into securities through the securitization process. In a securitization, a company sells a pool of assets to a securitization trust, and the securitization trust finances its purchase of the assets by selling securities to the market. For example, a trust may own a pool of home mortgages, and be financed by residential mortgage-backed securities. In this case, the asset-backed trust is a debt issuer of residential mortgage-backed securities.\n\nCentral banks, such as the U.S. Federal Reserve System, play a key role in the debt markets. Debt is normally denominated in a particular currency, and so changes in the valuation of that currency can change the effective size of the debt. This can happen due to inflation or deflation, so it can happen even though the borrower and the lender are using the same currency.\n\nSome argue against debt as an instrument and institution, on a personal, family, social, corporate and governmental level. Islam forbids lending with interest even today. In hard times, the cost of servicing debt can grow beyond the debtor's ability to pay, due to either external events (income loss) or internal difficulties (poor management of resources).\n\nDebt with an associated interest rate will increase through time if it is not repaid faster than it grows through interest. This effect may be termed usury, while the term \"usury\" in other contexts refers only to an excessive rate of interest, in excess of a reasonable profit for the risk accepted.\n\nIn international legal thought, odious debt is debt that is incurred by a regime for purposes that do not serve the interest of the state. Such debts are thus considered by this doctrine to be personal debts of the regime that incurred them and not debts of the state. International Third World debt has reached the scale that many economists are convinced that debt relief or debt cancellation is the only way to restore global equity in relations with the developing nations.\n\nExcessive debt accumulation has been blamed for exacerbating economic problems. For example, before the Great Depression, the debt-to-GDP ratio was very high. Economic agents were heavily indebted. This excess of debt, equivalent to excessive expectations on future returns, accompanied asset bubbles on the stock markets. When expectations corrected, deflation and a credit crunch followed. Deflation effectively made debt more expensive and, as Fisher explained, this reinforced deflation again, because, in order to reduce their debt level, economic agents reduced their consumption and investment. The reduction in demand reduced business activity and caused further unemployment. In a more direct sense, more bankruptcies also occurred due both to increased debt cost caused by deflation and the reduced demand.\n\nAt the household level, debts can also have detrimental effects — particularly when households make spending decisions assuming income will increase, or remain stable, in years to come. When households take on credit based on this assumption, life events can easily change indebtedness into over-indebtedness. Such life events include unexpected unemployment, relationship break-up, leaving the parental home, business failure, illness, or home repairs. Over-indebtedness has severe social consequences, such as financial hardship, poor physical and mental health, family stress, stigma, difficulty obtaining employment, exclusion from basic financial services (European Commission, 2009), work accidents and industrial disease, a strain on social relations (Carpentier and Van den Bosch, 2008), absenteeism at work and lack of organisational commitment (Kim \"et al.\", 2003), feeling of insecurity, and relational tensions.\n\nGlobal debt underwriting grew 4.3 percent year-over-year to during 2004. It is expected to rise in the coming years if the spending habits of millions of people worldwide continue the way they do.\n\nTraditions in some cultures demand that debt be forgiven on a regular (often annual) basis, in order to prevent systemic inequities between groups in society, or anyone becoming a specialist in holding debt and coercing repayment. An example is the Biblical Jubilee year, described in the Book of Leviticus.\n\n"}
{"id": "3183135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183135", "title": "Electronic Communications Act 2000", "text": "Electronic Communications Act 2000\n\nThe Electronic Communications Act 2000 (c.7) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that:\n\nThe United Kingdom government had come to the conclusion that encryption, encryption services and electronic signatures would be important to e-commerce in the UK.\n\nBy 1999, however, only the security services still hankered after key escrow. So a \"sunset clause\" was put in the bill. The Electronic Communications Act 2000 gave the Home Office the power to create a registration regime for encryption services. This was given a five-year period before it would automatically lapse, which eventually happened in May 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "15767509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15767509", "title": "Evidence management", "text": "Evidence management\n\nEvidence management is the administration and control of evidence related to an event so that it can be used to prove the circumstances of the event, and so that this proof can be tested by independent parties with confidence that the evidence provided is the evidence collected related to the event.\nEvidence management requires that the evidence is:\nthat is, the evidence presented for the proof is the exact evidence collected.\n\nEvidence management requiries the techniques used in:\n\nEvidence must be managed and administered over its entire lifetime. The lifetime of a piece of evidence includes a number of key stages, from the piece of evidence's acquisition to its eventual disposal:\n\nAt all stages of its life, the piece of evidence must typically be moved in and out of storage, and be handled by different people. This places very strong requirements on the integrity of the chain of custody, and in particular on the personnel involved and the duty of care of the organisation responsible. For example, Interpol has published standards to combat corruption, and Standard 4.12 refers to systems and states:\n\nEvidence and property management is typically considered critical to the extent that the efficiency or economy of the processes are secondary to the integrity of the evidence and property.\n\nThe digitising of evidence is reducing the need to handle the original evidence until it is presented. The reduction in the handling of the original evidence lessens the likelihood of deliberate tampering or accidental contamination and reduces chain of custody requirements and overheads.\n\nWhile the chain of custody stops with presentation, accountability and responsibility remains until the evidence is disposed of.\n\nEvidence management is critical to the outcome of criminal prosecutions. If any of the above aspects of evidence management fail in relation to the evidence required for a prosecution, then it can compromise the outcome of the prosecution.\n\nThe proper management of evidence is so important to organisations responsible for evidence that they develop formal standards for the management, administration, and handling of evidence. The failure to apply proper standards to property processing can result in severe criticism of an organisation. These standards and procedures can vary from consensual indicative standards internationally adopted as a benchmark reference by organisations across the world, be specific to the initial evidence handling procedures for specific institutions, be the lifetime standards for evidence handling for an organisation, or be formal national standards.\n\nThe primary aspect of the management of physical evidence is the provision of suitable storage facility. Storage facilities for evidence can vary in size from a single secure cabinet in an office to large dedicated warehouses.\nThe physical storage of evidence in modern departments is often accomplished using \nhi-density shelving systems. These systems allow use of only one aisle to access several rows of shelving by means of rolling carriages that have shelving mounted to them.\nThis results in storing double the amount of evidence in the same space that would be used on static shelving. These hi-density system can accommodate shelving, shelving with lockable drawers, bulk rack, pallet rack, and lockable cabinets. In addition hi-density style systems can lock off specific aisles for the various degrees of security often needed for items such as guns and drugs.\n\nAll but the smallest evidence storage facilities will contain multiple physical containers for separate pieces of evidence. The default container is a storage box although plastic bins and bags are also seen.\nLarger storage facilities will also provide environmentally controlled sections, for example cold rooms or freezers, for the preservation of evidence.\nHigh-density systems are even more valuable when special environments such as cold rooms are required because they require less space.\n\nThe physical containers used to store items of evidence are sometimes called evidence storage units\nThe packaging used to store evidence perform a number of functions. These include:\n\nPhysical containers for pieces of evidence varying in the type of storage they provide.\n\nHighly desirable pieces of evidence such as precious metals, currency, jewelry, firearms, and drugs often require higher levels of storage to protect them from theft, and reentry into the criminal environment.\n\nInherently dangerous items of evidence such as drugs, and chemical, biological, nuclear, radiological materials require higher levels of storage to protect the well being of evidence management personnel.\n\nTypically physical containers are of a size and shape that they are able to be handled by a single person. Small items can be placed in an evidence bag: a plastic bag with special tamper resistant features and places to record the chain of custody. Large volumes of evidence will require larger containers typically able to be handled using a fork lift.\n\nMost organisations collecting evidence have specific work units responsible for the safe keeping and preservation of evidence. The evidence storage work unit, typically called a property office is responsible for:\n\nWhen the organisation is a police agency, the property office is typically also responsible for found property.\n\n"}
{"id": "4162119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4162119", "title": "George Gill Green", "text": "George Gill Green\n\nGeorge Gill Green (January 16, 1842 – February 26, 1925) was a patent medicine entrepreneur, and Union surgeon in the American Civil War.\n\nGeorge Gill Green was born in Clarksboro, East Greenwich Township, New Jersey, to Mary Ann (1820-1844) and Lewis M. Green (1818-1894). George Green's mother was from Pennsylvania, and his father worked as a butcher. \n\nGreen attended the University of Pennsylvania medical school for two years, but left in 1864 before he graduated. \n\nHe enlisted in the 142nd Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment (active 1864-1865) during the American Civil War (1861-1865). In 1867 he started a wholesale drug business in Baltimore, Maryland but the factory was destroyed by a fire. He moved to Ohio, married Angie Brown, and they had their first child there.\n\nGreen bought the rights to \"Green's August Flower\" and \"Dr. Boschee's German Syrup\" from his father, Lewis, who sold the elixir under the name \"L.M. Green\". George created a marketing campaign involving mass mailings of free samples, and the distribution of thousands of his almanacs. Both elixirs were mostly laudanum. He became a millionaire and in 1880 he built Woodbury's Opera House. \n\nThe family moved to Woodbury, New Jersey on November 23, Thanksgiving Day in 1872. \n\nThe Greens had a son, George Gill Green II (1883-1971), who was born on January 17, 1883 and died in January 1971. \n\nIn 1893 Green acquired an uncompleted hotel in Pasadena, California, and in 1894 completed and opened it as Hotel Green in Southern California.\n\nGreen completed a summer home, \"Kil Kare Castle,\" in 1895 at Lake Hopatcong in New Jersey.\n\nIn 1898 Green built an annex west of Hotel Green, the \"Central Annex\" building or \"Castle Green\" on the block across Raymond Avenue. \"Castle Green\" is listed on the National Register of Historic Places in Pasadena, the California State Historic Landmark Register, and the City of Pasadena Register of City Treasures. \n\nIn 1903 Green added a third annex to the Hotel Green, known as the \"Wooster Block.\" His patent medicine business declined after the passage of the Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906, and by 1916 his company's products were discontinued. \n\nGeorge Gill Green died on February 26, 1925 in Woodbury, New Jersey.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "159500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159500", "title": "Initiative", "text": "Initiative\n\nIn political science, an initiative (also known as a popular or citizens' initiative) is a means by which a petition signed by a certain minimum number of registered voters can force a public vote (referendum, sometimes called a plebiscite).\n\nThe initiative may take the form of a direct initiative or an indirect initiative. In a direct initiative, a measure is put directly to a vote after being submitted by a petition. In an indirect initiative, a measure is first referred to the legislature, and then put to a popular vote only if not enacted by the legislature.\n\nThe vote may be on a proposed statute, constitutional amendment, charter amendment or local ordinance, or to simply oblige the executive or legislature to consider the subject by submitting it to the order of the day. It is a form of direct democracy.\n\nThe Canadian province of British Columbia has a citizen initiative law known as the Recall and Initiative Act. The original proposal was put to voters in a referendum held in October 1991 and was supported by over 83% of voters. It was subsequently put into force by the incoming NDP government. Since it came into force in 1995, several attempts have been made to hold an initiative, but until the fall of 2010, none had succeeded in reaching the first of the thresholds, securing signatures of 10% of registered voters in each riding throughout British Columbia. The first referendum was held under this legislation on September 2011 on the subject of repealing the Harmonized Sales Tax. Details of its use in BC are available on the Elections BC website.\n\nThe rejected Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe (TCE) included a limited indirect initiative right (Article I-46(4)). The proposal of introducing the European Citizens' Initiative (ECI) was that 1,000,000 citizens, from minimal numbers of different member states, could invite the executive body of the European Union (EU), the European Commission, to consider any proposal \"on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Constitution.\" The precise mechanism had not been agreed upon. Critics underlined the weakness of this right of initiative, which did not ultimately entail any vote or referendum.\n\nA similar scheme under the same name, European Citizens' Initiative (ECI), has been put forward in the now ratified European Lisbon Treaty (which entered into force on 1 December 2009), enabling a limited indirect initiative right. It follows very similar rules to the ones outlined in the European Constitution, requiring the signatures of 1,000 000 European Nationals. These citizens would thereby obtain the same right to request the Commission to submit a legislative proposal as the Council has had since the establishment of the European Communities in 1957. This, however, does require that the signatures come from a \"significant number\" of Member States. It is suggested that this significant number will need to be around a quarter of member states, with at least 1/500 of the citizens in those member states supporting the initiative. With the variety of languages within the European Union, this creates a significant hurdle for people to navigate. The treaty also makes it clear that right of initiative should not be confused with the right to petition, particularly since a petition is directed to Parliament while a citizens' initiative is directed to the Commission; whereas a petition is a method of remonstrance, usually focussing on perceived infringements of European Law, an initiative is a grassroots proposal for new legislation. In 2013 the subjects of ongoing open initiatives of the European Citizens' Initiative are e.g. about \"water and sanitation as a human right\" (against Water privatization), \"30 km/h - making the streets liveable!\" (Traffic calming in towns), \"Unconditional Basic Income\" (UBI - Exploring a pathway towards emancipatory welfare conditions), or to \"End Ecocide in Europe\" (to give the Earth Rights).\n\nIt remains to be seen if the ECI evolves into a full initiative or remains in its present state of a \"de facto\" petition.\n\nSince March 1, 2012, groups of at least 50,000 Finnish citizens with suffrage have had the constitutional right to send a citizens' initiative (Finnish: \"kansalaisaloite\", Swedish: \"medborgarinitiativ\") to the Parliament of Finland.\n\nA limited, indirect form of local initiative was added to the French Constitution (article 72-1, \"référendum d'initiative locale\") on 28 March 2003 as part of decentralization reforms. However, the only power these \"local referendum initiatives\" confer on citizens is the ability to add propositions to their local assembly's meeting agenda. The decision as to whether to submit citizen propositions to a popular vote (referendum) rests with the local assembly.\n\nAll German states have the right to initiative. However, there is no constitutional citizens' initiative in Germany at a federal level.\n\nThe Constitution of Ireland, since its 1937 enactment, has never made provision for initiatives. Since 2012, the Oireachtas (parliament) has a joint committee to which the public can submit petitions; the committee must formally consider them but need not accept them. In May–June 2013, when the Constitutional Convention considered Dáil electoral reform, members voted 83:16 in favour of allowing \"citizens' initiatives\" in general, 80:19 to allow them specifically for legislation, and 78:17 to allow them for constitutional amendments. In April 2015, the Fine Gael–Labour government rejected the recommendations on the basis that there is sufficient public involvement in legislation through the petitions committee and the pre-legislative scrutiny process.\n\nArticle 48 of the 1922 Constitution of the Irish Free State gave a right of initiative: if more than 50,000 voters demanded a change in law, the Oireachtas had two years to enact it, failing which 75,000 voters could petition for a referendum. The only attempt to invoke this was organised in 1927 by Fianna Fáil, the largest opposition party, which sought to abolish the Oath of Allegiance. By May 1928 Fianna Fáil claimed 96,000 signatures and attempted to have the petition laid before the Dáil (lower house). The motion was deferred, ostensibly to allow the Dáil procedure committee to define the method of dealing with such petitions. Before the committee could meet, the Cumann na nGaedheal government rushed through an amendment deleting Article 48 of the Constitution.\n\nAccording to Article 74 of the Romanian Constitution, groups of at least 100,000 Romanian Citizens with suffrage that reside in at least one quarter of all the counties and with a minimum 5,000 signatures per county have the right to send a Citizens' Initiative which must be considered by the legislative body (Initiatives that address fiscal or international matters are not covered by this right). If the initiative concerns changing the Constitution, Article 150 of the Constitution states that the group must include at least 500,000 Romanian Citizens with suffrage who reside in at least half of all the counties, with a minimum of 20,000 per county. Article 151 of the Constitution also states that any amendments brought to it, must be also approved by means of a National Referendum.\n\nIn New Zealand a vote initiated by the public is called a citizen initiated referendum. These are non-binding referendums on any issue in which proponents have submitted a petition to Parliament signed by ten percent of all registered electors within 12 months.\n\nPeople's initiative to propose amendments to the constitution is enshrined in the 1987 Philippine Constitution under Article XVII Section 2, which states:\n\nThis provision is further protected by Republic Act 6735 or \"The Initiative and Referendum Act.\" The law defines initiative as:\n\nThe law also provides \"indirect initiative\" defining the exercise of people's initiative through a proposition sent to congress or local legislative body for action.\n\nThe federal popular initiative was included in the Swiss Federal Constitution in 1891, permitting a certain number of citizens (currently 100,000 signatures within 18 months) to make a request to amend a constitutional article, or even to introduce a new article into the constitution. The right of initiative is also used at the cantonal and communal level in Switzerland (all cantons, all communes where the direct democratic citizens' participation originates); many cantons allow initiatives to enact regular non-constitutional law, but the federal system does not.\n\nIf the necessary number of supporters is reached, the initiative will be put to a plebiscite about two or three years later; the delay helps prevent short-term political moods from getting into the constitution. The parliament and government will both issue their official opinions on whether they recommend voting for or against the proposed amendment, and these opinions will be published.\n\nThe parliament may also pass an alternative amendment suggestion which will also be included on the ballot; in this case, the voters cast two votes, one for whether or not they want an amendment, and one for which one they want, the original one from the initiative or the one introduced in parliament, in case a majority decides for amending.\n\nA citizen-proposed change to the constitution in Switzerland at the national level needs to achieve both a majority of the national popular vote and a majority of the canton-wide vote to pass. The vast majority of national initiatives introduced since 1891, when the system started, have failed to receive voter support. But the initiatives have proven to be a useful tool to force the government to concentrate on subjects that will otherwise remain hidden from the politic, lowering the distance between the government and the citizens.\n\nThe United States has no initiative process at the national level, but the initiative is in use at the level of state government in 24 states and the District of Columbia, and is also in common use at the local government level.\n\nArticle I, Section I of the United States Constitution vests \"all legislative powers herein granted\" to the Congress of the United States. Establishing a national initiative procedure would likely require an amendment to the Constitution, which would under Article V require two-thirds of both houses of Congress or the application of two-thirds of the state legislatures to propose, and three-fourths of all state legislatures (or conventions in three-fourths of the states) to ratify. The Constitution itself, pursuant to Article VII, was ratified by state conventions rather than by a referendum.\n\nSeveral proposals have been made to institute a national referendum. The Ludlow Amendment, introduced several times to the House of Representatives by Louis Ludlow, of Indiana, between 1935 and 1940, proposed an amendment to the Constitution that would require a national referendum to declare war except in the case of invasion or attack. The amendment came closest to overcoming a discharge petition on January 10, 1938, when it was defeated in the House by a vote of 209 to 188. That was short of the two-thirds vote required for its passage.\n\nUnsuccessful attempts to get initiatives have nevertheless occurred, but since the proposals were bills, not a constitutional amendments, no initiative could probably have lawfully been voted on notwithstanding the bills' passage. The first attempt to get national ballot initiatives occurred in 1907 when House Joint Resolution 44 was introduced by Rep. Elmer Fulton of Oklahoma; the proposal was never put to a vote. In 1977, both the Abourezk-Hatfield National Voter Initiative and the Jagt Resolutions never got out of committee. Senator Mike Gravel was part of that effort.\n\nThe modern system of initiative and referendum originated in the state of South Dakota, which adopted initiative and referendum in 1898 by a popular vote of 23,816 to 16,483. Oregon was the second state to adopt and did so in 1902, when the Oregon Legislative Assembly adopted it by an overwhelming majority. The \"Oregon System,\" as it was at first known, subsequently spread to many other states, and became one of the signature reforms of the Progressive Era (1890s-1920s).\n\nOn Brazil, a popular law initiative requires two conditions to be send to analysis by the national congress: signatures from at least 1% of the people allowed to vote from all the country and at least 0,3% of the people allowed to vote from each of at least 5 of the 27 federal unities (the 26 states plus the federal district). If both conditions are achivied, then the congress is obliged to discus and vote the initiative.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5334706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5334706", "title": "Julius Binder", "text": "Julius Binder\n\nJulius Binder (May 12, 1870 in Würzburg – August 28, 1939 in Göttingen) was a German philosopher of law. He is principally known as an opponent of legal positivism, and for having remained as an active scholar during the 1930s in Nazi Germany who did not speak out against the prevailing government of that time.\n\nAfter studying law in Würzburg with honors (1894) and Habilitation (1898), he became professor in Rostock (1900), Erlangen (1903), Würzburg (1913) and Göttingen (1919). He founded the \"International Hegel Federal\" and became a member of the Göttingen Academy of Sciences.\n\nAfter he had applied in earlier works the concept of rights from Immanuel Kant (as in: \"Legal concept and idea of law\" from the year 1915), he later became a strong critic of Neokantian legal philosophy, especially the philosophy of law of Rudolf Stammler. Since the 1920s, Julius Binder—and later along with Karl Larenz, Gerhard Dulckeit and Walther Schönfeld –- he applied a Neohegelian approach to jurisprudence in the system of the so-called \"objective idealism\". Binder was the academic teacher of the German legal philosopher and civil law proponent Karl Larenz. He rejected legal positivism.\n\nIn addition, Binder, along with others such as Ernst Forsthoff, Carl Schmitt, Karl Larenz among legal philosophers, did not criticize the Nazi legal system.\n\nSince 1890 he was a member of the Corps Bavaria Würzburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "30252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30252", "title": "Justification for the state", "text": "Justification for the state\n\nThe justification of the state refers to the source of legitimate authority for the state or government. Typically, such a justification explains why the state should exist, and to some degree scopes the role of government - what a legitimate state should or should not be able to do.\n\nThere is no single, universally accepted justification of the state. In fact, anarchists believe that there is no justification for the state at all, and that human societies would be better off without it. However, most political ideologies have their own justifications, and thus their own vision of what constitutes a legitimate state. Indeed, a person's opinions regarding the role of government often determine the rest of their political ideology. Thus, discrepancy of opinion in a wide array of political matters is often directly traceable back to a discrepancy of opinion in the justification for the state.\n\nThe constitutions of various countries codify views as to the purposes, powers, and forms of their governments, but they tend to do so in rather vague terms, which particular laws, courts, and actions of politicians subsequently flesh out. In general, various countries have translated vague talk about the purposes of their governments into particular state laws, bureaucracies, enforcement actions, etc.\n\nThe following are just a few examples.\n\nIn feudal Europe the most widespread justification of the state was the emerging idea of the divine right of kings, which stated that monarchs draw their power from God, and that the state should only be an apparatus that puts the monarch's will into practice. The legitimacy of the state's lands derived from the lands being the personal possession of the monarch. The divine-right theory, combined with primogeniture, became a theory of hereditary monarchy in the nation states of the early modern period. The Holy Roman Empire was not a state in that sense, and was not a true theocracy, but rather a federal entity.\n\nThe political ideas current in China at that time involved the idea of the mandate of heaven. It resembled the theory of divine right in that it placed the ruler in a divine position, as the link between Heaven and Earth, but it differed from the divine right of kings in that it did not assume a permanent connection between a dynasty and the state. Inherent in the concept was that a ruler held the mandate of heaven only as long as he provided good government. If he did not, heaven would withdraw its mandate and whoever restored order would hold the new mandate. This is true theocracy; the power and wisdom to govern is granted by a higher power, not by human political schemes, and can be equally removed by heaven. This has similarities to the idea presented in the Judeo-Christian Bible from the time when Israel requests \"a king like the nations\" () through to Christ himself telling his contemporary leaders that they only had power because God gave it to them. The classic Biblical example comes in the story of King Nebuchadnezzar, who according to the Book of Daniel ruled the Babylonian empire because God ordained his power, but who later ate grass like a ox for seven years because he deified himself instead of acknowledging God. Nebuchadnezzar is restored when he again acknowledges God as the true sovereign.\n\nIn Renaissance Italy, contemporary theoreticians saw the primary purpose of the less-overtly monarchical Italian city-states as civic glory.\n\nIn the period of the eighteenth century, usually called the Enlightenment, a new justification of the European state developed. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's social contract theory states that governments draw their power from the governed, its 'sovereign' people (usually a certain ethnic group, and the state's limits are legitimated theoretically as that people's lands, although that is often not, rarely exactly, the case), that no person should have absolute power, and that a \"legitimate\" state is one which meets the needs and wishes of its citizens. These include security, peace, economic development and the resolution of conflict. Also, the social contract requires that an individual gives up some of his natural rights in order to maintain social order via the rule of law. Eventually, the divine right of kings fell out of favor and this idea ascended; it formed the basis for modern democracy.\n\nThis is an example of the theoretical thinking shifting the emphasis from faith and theoretical principles such as sovereignty to the socio-economic logic, as Karl Marx did.\nThus modern political theorists typically legitimize the state with two major ideas: redistribution and the provision of public goods. In \"The Limits of Government\", philosopher David Schmidtz takes on the second of these ideas.\nWhile a market system may allow self-interested to create and allocate many goods optimally, there exists a class of \"collective\" - or \"public goods\" that are not produced adequately in a market system. These collective goods are goods that all individuals want but for whose production it is often not individually rational for people voluntarily to do their part to secure a collectively rational outcome. The state can step in and force us all to contribute toward the production of these goods, and we can all thereby be made better off. There are actually many different opinions when it comes to this topic.\n\nIt is on those questions that one can find the differences between conservatism, socialism, liberalism, libertarianism, fascism, especially the latter, and other political ideologies. There are also two ideologies - anarchism and communism - which argue that the existence of the state is ultimately unjustified and harmful. For this reason, the kind of society they aim to establish would be stateless.\n\nAnarchism claims that the community of those fighting to create a new society must themselves constitute a stateless society. Communism wishes to immediately or eventually replace the communities, unities and divisions that things such as work, money, exchange, borders, nations, governments, police, religion, and race create with the universal community possible when these things are replaced.\n\nState socialism states that the degree to which a state is working class is the degree to which it fights government, class, work, and rule. The degree to which it wins such a fight is held to be the degree to which it is communist instead of capitalist, socialist, or the state. Anarcho-capitalism argues that taxes are theft, that government and the business community complicit in governance is organized crime and is equivalent to the criminal underworld, and that defense of life and property is just another industry, which must be privatized. Anarcho-communism and anarcho-collectivism says that taxes, being theft, are just property, which is also theft, and that the state is inherently capitalist and will never result in a transition to communism, and says that those fighting against capitalism and the state to produce a communist society must themselves already form such a community. However, the majority of viewpoints agree that the existence of \"some\" kind of government is morally justified. What they disagree about is the proper role and the proper form of that government.\n\nThere are several ways to conceive of the differences between these different political views. For example, one might ask \"in what areas\" should the government have jurisdiction, to \"what extent\" it may intervene in those areas, or even what constitutes \"intervention\" in the first place. Some institutions can be said to exist only because the government provides the framework for their existence; for instance, Marxists argue that the institution of private property only exists due to government. The intervention debate can be framed in terms of big government versus small government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16761047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16761047", "title": "LGBT rights in Asia", "text": "LGBT rights in Asia\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights in Asia are limited in comparison to many other areas of the world. Same-sex sexual activity is outlawed in at least twenty Asian countries. While at least eight countries have enacted protections for LGBT people, only Israel and Taiwan provide a wider range of LGBT rights - including same-sex relationship recognition.\n\nIn Afghanistan, Brunei, Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, homosexual activity is punished with the death penalty. The legal punishment for sodomy has varied among juristic schools: some prescribe capital punishment; while other prescribe a milder discretionary punishment such as imprisonment. In some relatively secular Muslim-majority countries such as Azerbaijan, Jordan, and Turkey, homosexuality is legal, but usually socially unacceptable.\n\nEgalitarian relationships modeled on the Western pattern have become more frequent, though they remain rare.<ref name=\"http://muslimvillage.com/author/mv-media/ MV Media\"></ref> Cambodia, East Timor, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, Mongolia, Nepal, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam and Cyprus (excluding Northern Cyprus) are viewed as the most open to the LGBT community in Asia. Japan, Israel, Thailand, Taiwan and Nepal are the major players in legislation. , only the British Overseas Territories of Akrotiri and Dhekelia and the British Indian Ocean Territory have legalized same-sex marriage.\n\nIn a 2011 UN General Assembly declaration for LGBT rights, state parties were given a chance to express their support or opposition on the topic. Only Armenia, Georgia, Cyprus, Israel, South Korea, Japan, Mongolia, Nepal, Thailand, and East Timor expressed their support. They were later joined by Vietnam and the Philippines. State parties who expressed opposition were Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei, the Maldives, North Korea, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Yemen, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar, Syria, Afghanistan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikistan. Other Asian parties did not show support or opposition.\n\nThe first and only LGBT political party in the world, Ladlad, was established in the Philippines in 2003.\n\nIn 2016, during an African-led coalition to dislodge the recently established UN expert on LGBT issues, the majority of Asian nations backed to retain the role of the UN LGBT expert, with only Muslim nations, with the addition of China and Singapore, declaring their opposition.\n"}
{"id": "49255342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49255342", "title": "Lying in wait", "text": "Lying in wait\n\nIn criminal law, lying in wait refers to the act of hiding and waiting for an individual with the intent to kill that person or inflict serious bodily harm to that person. Because lying in wait involves premeditation, some jurisdictions have established that lying in wait is considered an aggravating circumstance that allows for the imposition of harsher criminal penalties. Scholars have traced the origins of this doctrine as far back as 1389, when the English Parliament passed a law that denied the right of pardon to individuals who killed while lying in wait. In 1794, Pennsylvania passed a law that defined first degree murder as \"[a]ll murder which shall be perpetrated ... by lying in wait\". Many states modeled their penal codes after the Pennsylvania law, but by the beginning of the twenty first century, only four states identified \"lying in wait\" as a \"death qualifying act\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1206018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1206018", "title": "McGowan v. Maryland", "text": "McGowan v. Maryland\n\nMcGowan v. Maryland, 366 U.S. 420 (1961), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the court held that laws with religious origins are not unconstitutional if they have a secular purpose.\n\nA large discount store in Anne Arundel County, Maryland was fined for selling goods on a Sunday, in violation of a local blue law. The Court rejected an establishment clause challenge to laws saying that most large-scale commercial enterprises remain closed on Sundays. The Court's review of the history demonstrated that Sunday closing laws were originally efforts to promote church attendance. \"But, despite the strongly religious origin of these laws, non religious arguments for Sunday closing began to be heard more distinctly.\"\n\nThe Court said that the Constitution does not ban federal or state regulation of conduct whose reason or effect merely happens to coincide with the tenets of some or all religions. It concluded that, as currently written and administered, most Sunday closing laws are of a secular rather than religious character. They provide a uniform day of rest for all citizens. To say that the State cannot prescribe Sunday as a day of rest for these purposes solely because centuries ago such laws had their genesis in religion would give a constitutional interpretation of hostility to the public welfare rather than one of mere separation of church and state.\n\nThe relevant clauses of the 1st and 14th Amendments to the United States Constitution:\n\nThe Court held that Maryland's laws did not violate the First Amendment. The plaintiffs claimed only economic injury, not that they had been prevented from the free exercise of their religion. Writing for the Court, Chief Justice Warren concluded:\n\nThe Court also held that the law did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. Chief Justice Warren again:\n\nIn reaching their conclusion, the Court also examined the wider question of whether laws proscribing or limiting Sunday trading were constitutional. They held that such laws did not violate the division between church and state, because - no matter the historical roots of such laws - the laws existed as constituted in order to fulfill a secular objective. In other words, even if Sunday trading laws were originally intended to facilitate and encourage church attendance in the colonial United States, the laws as presently constituted were intended to improve the \"health, safety, recreation, and general well-being\" of citizens. The present purpose of the laws is to provide a uniform day of rest for all; the fact that this day is of particular significance for one or more religions does not bar the State from achieving its secular goals in this manner.\n\nIn a dissent, Justice Douglas argued that the Sunday closing laws were an attempt by the Protestant majority to impose its beliefs on the country. He wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250766", "title": "Military alliance", "text": "Military alliance\n\nA military alliance is an international agreement concerning national security, when the contracting parties agree to mutual protection and support in case of a crisis that has not been identified in advance. Military alliances differ from coalitions, as coalitions are formed for a crisis that are already known.\n\nMilitary alliances can be classified into defense pacts, non-aggression pacts and ententes.\n\nMilitary alliances are related to collective security systems but can differ in nature. An early 1950s memorandum from the United States Department of State explained the difference by saying, that historically alliances \"were designed to advance the respective nationalistic interests of the parties, and provided for joint military action if one of the parties in pursuit of such objectives became involved in war\". While a collective security arrangement \"is directed against no one; it is directed solely against aggression. It seeks not to influence any shifting 'balance of power' but to strengthen the 'balance of principle'\".\n\nThe obvious motivation in states engaging in military alliances is to protect themselves against threats from other countries. However states have also entered into alliances to improve ties with a particular nation or to manage conflict with a particular nation.\n\nThe nature of alliances, including their formation and cohesiveness (or lack thereof), is a subject of much academic study past and present, with the leading scholars generally considered to be Glenn H. Snyder and Stephen Walt.\n\nIn the European historical context, a military alliance can be viewed as a league between independent states, defined by treaty, for the purpose of combined action, defensive or offensive, or both. Alliances have often been directed to specific objects carefully defined in the treaties. Thus the Triple Alliance of 1668 between Great Britain, Sweden and the Netherlands, and the Grand Alliance of 1689 between the Holy Roman Empire, Holland, England, Spain and Saxony, were both directed against the power of Louis XIV of France. The Quadruple or Grand Alliance of 1814, defined in the Treaty of Chaumont, between Great Britain, Austria, Russia and Prussia, had for its object the overthrow of Napoleon and his dynasty, and the confining of France within her traditional boundaries. The Triple Alliance of 1882 between Germany, Austria and Italy was ostensibly directed to the preservation of European peace against any possible aggressive action of France or Russia; and this led in turn, some ten years later, to the Dual Alliance between Russia and France, for mutual support in case of any hostile action of the other powers.\n\nOccasionally, however, attempts have been made to give alliances a more general character. Thus the Holy Alliance of 26 September 1815 was an attempt, inspired by the religious idealism of the Emperor Alexander I of Russia, to find in the \"sacred precepts of the Gospel\", a common basis for a general league of the European governments, its object being, primarily, the preservation of peace. So, too, by Article VI of the Quadruple Treaty signed at Paris on 20 November 1815 – which renewed that of Chaumont and was again renewed, in 1818, at Aix-la-Chapelle – the scope of the Grand Alliance was extended to objects of common interest not specifically stated in the treaties. The article runs: \"In order to consolidate the intimate tie which unites the four sovereigns for the happiness of the world, the High Contracting Powers have agreed to renew at fixed intervals, either under their own auspices or by their respective ministers, meetings consecrated to great common objects and to the examination of such measures as at each one of these epochs shall be judged most salutary for the peace and prosperity of the nations and the maintenance of the tranquillity of Europe\".\n\nIt was this article of the treaty of the 20 November 1815, rather than the Holy Alliance, that formed the basis of the serious effort made by the great powers, between 1815 and 1822, to govern Europe in concert. In general it proved that an alliance, to be effective, must be clearly defined as to its objects, and that in the long run the treaty in which these objects are defined must – to quote Otto von Bismarck's somewhat cynical dictum – \"be reinforced by the interests\" of the parties concerned. Yet the \"moral alliance\" of Europe, as Count Karl Nesselrode called it, though it failed to secure the permanent harmony of the powers, was an effective instrument for peace during the years immediately following the downfall of Napoleon; and it set the precedent for those periodical meetings of the representatives of the powers, for the discussion and settlement of questions of international importance, which, though cumbrous and inefficient for constructive work, contributed much to the preservation of the general peace during much of the nineteenth century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "752246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752246", "title": "Miller Park", "text": "Miller Park\n\nMiller Park is a baseball park located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is home to the Milwaukee Brewers and was completed in 2001 as a replacement for Milwaukee County Stadium. The park is located just southwest of the intersection of Interstate 94 and Miller Park Way. The title sponsor is the Miller Brewing Company. Miller's contract with the stadium was for $40 million, and runs until 2020.\n\nMiller Park features North America's only fan-shaped convertible roof, which can open and close in less than 10 minutes. Large panes of glass allow natural grass to grow, augmented with heat lamp structures wheeled out across the field during the off-season.\n\nMiller Park is one of the largest construction projects in Wisconsin history. It was built with US$290 million of public funds from a 0.1% sales tax that began January 1, 1996, and is scheduled for retirement upon completion, sometime around 2017. The tax is applied on purchases in Milwaukee County and four surrounding counties: Ozaukee, Racine, Washington, and Waukesha. The tax was controversial, in part because of the notion of using public funds for a privately owned sports team. The state senator who cast the deciding vote in the funding bill, George Petak of Racine, lost a recall election based on his vote for the stadium.\n\nGroundbreaking took place on November 9, 1996, in a parking lot behind County Stadium. Originally scheduled to open in 2000, Miller Park's construction was delayed after three construction workers were killed in an accident. A Lampson Transi-lift crane 3 (nicknamed \"Big Blue\"), brought in to build the roof, collapsed while lifting a 450-ton roof section, during windy conditions, on July 14, 1999, killing three workers. A camera crew was filming construction of the stadium on that day and captured the collapse on video as it occurred. Repair work and an investigation forced the Brewers to stay in County Stadium for one more year, until 2001. There was some talk of having the Brewers move to Miller Park in the middle of 2000, but it was determined that too many corners would need to be cut for it to be a realistic possibility.\nThe stadium has a retractable roof, built in a unique fan-shaped style, with the roof panels opening and closing simultaneously in a sweeping manner from the first- and third-base sides toward center field. The complex and massive roof was a significant factor in the $392 million cost of the stadium. It allows the seating area to be heated 30 °F warmer than the outside temperature when closed, allowing games to be played in inclement weather and in more comfortable conditions than an open-air stadium. The idea of the stadium having a retractable roof had been considered right away in the initial design, as to help counter the unpredictable Wisconsin weather in the early spring and late autumn.\n\nThe design team was appointed after a design competition in the mid-1990s. The architectural concept for the stadium was developed by the Los Angeles-based sports and entertainment team NBBJ, who worked closely with a Los Angeles-based team of engineers Arup, who were responsible for all stages of the structural and building services engineering design for the stadium, with the exception of the mechanical mechanisms that move the roof structure. The original versions of these mechanisms were designed by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America as part of a design and build contract, but they have now been replaced by new designs after their failure. The executive architect responsible for the delivery of the final stadium design was a Dallas-based team of HKS, Inc. In addition to these major players there were a significant contributions from local teams including Eppstein Uhen Architects.\n\nThe stadium design followed the trend of retro-designed ballparks with current amenities that began in 1992 with Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore.\n\nThe original grass playing surface was installed on March 10, 2001, with County Stadium's surface infield dirt and home plate transplanted into the new stadium.\n\nThe unconventional fan-shaped retractable roof has not been without complications. Major elements of the pivot system behind home plate and the outfield roof track have been replaced, even after the crane incident.\n\nAt the end of the 2006 season, the roof's bogie system was replaced at a cost of over $13 million. The 10 new, 24-feet-(7.3 m)-long, bogies were paid for with money from the settlement between the stadium district and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of America. Six of the bogies weigh 66 tons apiece, while the four others weigh 49 tons. The work was completed by lifting sections of the roof approximately six inches with Enerpac hydraulic lifts, while a 300-ton crane replaced the bogies individually. \"The bogies will last for the life of the facility,\" said Mike Duckett, executive director of the Miller Park stadium district. The project was completed by the start of the 2007 season.\n\nAnother issue resulting from the design of the roof and the adjacent large glass panels is that, during day games when the roof is fully open, shadows cover home plate and the batters boxes, while the pitchers mound is in full sunlight. This was a safety concern for batters, and was addressed during the 2010 season, when it was determined that a larger shadow would cover both home plate and the pitchers mound if only one half of the roof was opened. This tactic continues to be used.\n\nIn time for the 2006 season there were three additions to the stadium. Two sets of LED scoreboards were added. One replaced the formerly manually operated \"out of town\" scoreboards along the left and right field walls with a new set of LED scoreboards along the left-field wall. The new \"out of town\" scoreboards show continually updated information about other Major League games, including the score, hits, errors, outs, and an image of the field displaying the runners on base. A second-tier marquee scoreboard was also added along the bottom of the 300-level of the stadium stretching from foul pole to home plate to foul pole, with the portion closest to the foul lines used to provide open captions of announcements from the public address system and advertisements. The section of the second-tier scoreboard above home plate displays statistics for those unable to see the main scoreboard above the center-field wall. The final addition to Miller Park for the 2006 season was the addition of a field-level picnic area in the corner of right-field. The picnic area has a capacity of 75 and provides a place for fans to watch the game in a leisurely setting and be within feet of the right-fielder. Known first as the Mercedes-Benz Field Haus, the picnic area's name was changed to AirTran Airways Landing Zone in 2009, and later to the current name, the ATI Club.\nDuring the 2007 season, as the Brewers got closer to the team record of home runs in a season, a home run counter was added to the right of the center field scoreboard. In the shape of a gas pump, the counter was sponsored by Citgo, whose name could be seen as a play on words for a home run (C-It-Go). The counter kept track of the home runs hit by the Brewers during the season and when a home run was hit, the player's name was shown on the display as well as the distance of the home run. The Citgo home run counter was removed after the 2009 season.\n\nEarly into the 2008 season, the Brewers also added a sponsored strikeout counter to the tier of the second deck of the right field bleachers, which illuminates a K when a Brewers' pitcher notches a strikeout and keeps track of how many strikeouts as a team the Brewers have. Prior to this addition, Bernie Brewer would hang strikeout K's from the railing of his club house, including backwards K's to denote a called strike three.\n\nIn 2009, Miller Park's outfield was replaced with \"Lo-Mo\" Kentucky bluegrass just like the infield was the prior year. The new turf, common in other ballparks around baseball, is denser and has a sand base, instead of the sand and clay mix under the original grass. The turf yields truer hops and fewer instances in which the baseball skips under an outfielder's glove than the previous turf. Also for the 2009 season, the Harley-Davidson Deck was opened on the field level of the stadium in left-center field.\n\nDuring the off-season between 2010 and 2011, the stadium's original centerfield scoreboard (a smaller videoboard atop a larger black and amber message display board) was replaced by a full length and full color Daktronics 1080p high definition display board which is the ninth-largest screen among current MLB stadiums, along with a public address/sound system upgrade.\n\nFrom the year Miller Park opened in 2001, the Brewers have averaged 31,783 fans per game, or 2,574,423 per season, while placing 11th out of 30 franchises in total attendance, despite having only seven winning seasons through the 2018 season, and having won only two MLB playoff series in just five total series appearances, and having the smallest market size of any Major League city. In 2011, the Brewers set a franchise record of 3,071,373, and beginning in 2004 they have attracted at least two-million fans; an ongoing streak of fifteen consecutive years, the twelfth longest in Major League history. Prior to Miller Park, the previous such consecutive streak in Milwaukee baseball history was four years, from 1954 to 1957.\n\n\nOn opening day April 6, 2001, President George W. Bush and MLB Commissioner Bud Selig had first pitch honors for the stadium. The park hosted the 2002 MLB All-Star Game, which ended infamously in a tie.\n\nIn April 2007, snow storms in northern Ohio caused the Cleveland Indians to postpone their home opening series against the Seattle Mariners and forced the Indians to find a different location for their home series against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Major League Baseball took advantage of Miller Park's roof and moved the Indians-Angels series to Milwaukee. All seats were sold for $10 apiece, and attendance was 52,496 for the three games. The series was a reminder to many of the 1989 film \"Major League\", which featured scenes filmed in Milwaukee County Stadium, though the film was about a fictionalized Cleveland Indians team. The first game of the series was played on the same day that the film's \"Wild Thing Edition\" was released on DVD. When Joe Borowski came in to close for the Indians, the song \"Wild Thing\" was played over the PA system, in an homage to the film. Also, the Indians' mascot Slider slid down Bernie Brewer's slide following Indians home runs. These games were the first to be played under American League rules in Milwaukee since 1997 (the Brewers' final season in the AL), and have been the only games played under AL rules in Miller Park.\n\nHurricane Ike's landfall in Houston forced the Chicago Cubs and Houston Astros to play a two-game series at Miller Park on Sunday, September 14 and Monday, September 15, 2008. The park became the first neutral site in Major League history to host a no-hitter, when Carlos Zambrano of the Chicago Cubs threw the first no-hitter in the history of the park against the Houston Astros on Sunday, September 14, 2008. The next day, his teammate Ted Lilly, took a no-hitter into the 7th inning.\n\nMiller Park hosted the 2007 United States Bowling Congress Masters finals on Sunday, October 28, 2007. The playing surface was fitted with four bowling lanes for the tournament.\n\nMiller Park was one of the venues being considered for a United Football League expansion team according to former league commissioner Michael Huyghue. However, the Brewers maintain that Miller Park was not built with the intention of also fielding a football team, though the stadium in the early 90's was planned to have a football layout before the Packers decided to play in Green Bay full-time after the 1994 season and subsequent redesigns as a baseball-only facility.\n\nDuring the 2014 All-Star break, Miller Park hosted an untelevised international friendly match between Swansea City and Chivas of Guadalajara on July 16, 2014. The soccer pitch was laid out in a first baseline-to-left field configuration, with a narrower width than a standard soccer pitch due to the constraints of the field. The teams played to a 1-1 draw in front of about 31,000 in attendance.\n\nDuring the 2015 All-Star Break, Miller Park hosted a friendly between Mexican side Club Atlas and English Premier League side Newcastle United on July 14, 2015. Club Atlas won the match 2-1.\n\nAfter a three year hiatus, Miller Park once again hosted a friendly match between Mexican sides C.F. Pachuca and Club León. Pachuca won the match 3-1.\n\nOn August 11, 2012 Miller Park hosted an event called \"Field of Honor: A Salute to the Greatest Generation\". Over 30,000 tickets were sold for the event, which included the premiere showing of \"Honor Flight\", a documentary detailing the Honor Flight movement, where veterans of World War II are flown into Washington, D.C. on commercial flights via donations and non-profit organizations in order to visit the National World War II Memorial in person. The promoters were hoping to best a world record for a movie premiere attendance, previously held for the premiere in Brazil of a soccer film.\n\nThe Arctic Tailgate is an annual event where fans camp outside Miller Park the day before single game tickets are sold, which is usually the last weekend of February (it is delayed or moved into the stadium's heated concourse if the temperatures are well below for the safety of fans). The tradition is said to have started as early as the 1990s where Brewers fans would try to be the first to acquire tickets for Opening Day. Since 2006, the Brewers have made it an official event, even providing the waiting fans coffee, hot chocolate, and doughnuts in the morning, discounts on tickets for the first week of games in the season, as well as a free lunch consisting of a hot dog, chips, and a soda, eaten in a heated tent afterwards. Over 101,000 tickets were sold for the 2015 Arctic Tailgate.\n\nMiller Park was also a major filming location for the motion picture \"Mr. 3000\", which centered on a fictional Brewers player played by the late comedian Bernie Mac.\n\nMiller Park is commonly referred to as \"Wrigley North\" by the fans of rival Chicago Cubs. The nickname is a play on Wrigley Field since Miller Park is north of Wrigley Field and fans from Chicago frequently travel to Miller Park due to its close proximity when the Brewers are playing the Cubs. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46335837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46335837", "title": "Mitchel v Reynolds", "text": "Mitchel v Reynolds\n\nMitchel v. Reynolds is a landmark decision in the history of the law of restraint of trade. It is generally cited for establishing the principle that reasonable restraints of trade, unlike unreasonable restraints of trade, are permissible and therefore enforceable and not a basis for civil or criminal liability. It is largely the basis in US antitrust law for the \"rule of reason.\" William Howard Taft, then Chief Judge of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, later US President and then Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, quoted \"Mitchel\" extensively when he first developed the antitrust rule-of-reason doctrine in \"United States v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co.\", which was affirmed in 1899 by the Supreme Court. The doctrine also played a major role in the 1911 Supreme Court case \"Standard Oil Company of New Jersey v. United States\" 221 U.S. 1 (1911).\n\n\"Mitchel\" is also cited for the proposition that usually harmful practices may be rebuttably presumed unlawful, so that the burden of showing legitimacy is placed on the proponent of the practice.\n\nReynolds was a baker at St Andrew Holborn, which included both Lincoln's Inn and Gray's Inn, and therefore a considerable number of lawyers. In this litigation-prone environment, Reynolds chose to rent his bakeshop business to Mitchel for five years and gave Mitchel a bond for £50 with the condition that the bond would be void if Reynolds refrained from acting as a baker in the parish for the next five years. Reynolds resumed his trade as a baker at another location in the parish within the five years, and Mitchel sued on the bond.\n\nReynolds defended by demurrer, contending that the bond was void because it was on a restraint of trade. His position was that any such restraint of trade was illegal per se, since it prevented him from exercising his trade as a baker.\n\nAlthough general restraints of trade are unlawful, the court of the Queen's Bench, per Chief Justice Parker (Lord Macclesfield), held this restraint of trade reasonable and therefore lawful. It was ancillary to a legitimate transaction (the rental or sale of the bakeshop business) and it was reasonably necessary to effectuate the main purpose. Its extent was limited to what was necessary to accomplish the main purpose of the transaction. If Reynolds reopened his bakery business, he would attract his old customers and deprive Mitchel of the benefit of his bargain with Reynolds, which included the goodwill of the business (i.e., the habit of the customers to continue to buy baked goods at the same location). Although a restraint of trade without a good reason to support it is presumed unlawful, the court ruled, the presumption can be rebutted and overcome by facts such as those present here: the restraint of trade was necessary and ancillary to a lawful transaction.\n\nEven if a restraint is necessary and ancillary, within the meaning of the \"Mitchel\" and \"Addyston Pipe\" cases, it may still be an unreasonable restraint of trade if its anticompetive effects, and consequent harm to the public interest, outweigh its benefits. As Judge Ginsburg opined in the \"Polygram\" case:\nIf the only way a new product can be profitably introduced is to restrain the legitimate competition of older products, then one must seriously wonder whether consumers are genuinely benefited by the new product.\nIn the same vein, the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission stated a similar approach in the 1995 \"Antitrust Guidelines for the Licensing of Intellectual Property\":\nIf the Agencies conclude that the restraint has, or is likely to have, an\nanticompetitive effect, they will consider whether it is reasonably necessary to achieve procompetitive efficiencies. If the restraint is reasonably necessary, the Agencies will balance the procompetitive efficiencies and the anticompetitive effects to determine the probable net effect on competition in each relevant market.\nQuestions have been raised as to how necessary a restraint must be to the accomplishment of the main purpose to which it is claimed to be ancillary. For example, must it be indispensable? Is it sufficient if it is of some aid? The FTC-DOJ 2000 \"Guidelines for Collaborations among Competitors\" say that, in determining whether a restraint is \"reasonably necessary,\" the issue is \"whether practical, significantly less restrictive means were reasonably available when the agreement was entered into.\"\n\nA related issue is \"necessary to what?\" In one recent case, a court rejected a credit card issuer's attempted justification of a restriction against competitive dealings said to be reasonably necessary to promote \"loyalty\" and \"cohesion.\" \"How necessary\" and \"necessary to what\" thus remain controverted issues under the doctrine of \"Mitchel v. Reynolds\".\n"}
{"id": "10896351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10896351", "title": "OBIX", "text": "OBIX\n\noBIX (for Open Building Information Exchange) is a standard for RESTful Web Services-based interfaces to building control systems. oBIX is about reading and writing data over a network of devices using XML and URIs, within a framework specifically designed for building automation.\n\nBuilding control systems include those electrical and mechanical systems that operate inside a building, including Heating and Cooling (HVAC), Security, Power Management, and Life/Safety Alarms that are in nearly all buildings as well as the myriad of special purpose systems that may be tied to particular buildings such as A/V Event Management, Theatre Lighting, Medical Gas Distribution, Fume Hoods, and many others.\n\noBIX is a web services interface because it does not necessarily allow deep interactions with the underlying control systems. This interface can enable communications between enterprise applications and embedded building systems as well as between two embedded building systems. Facilities and their operations to be managed as full participants in knowledge-based businesses.\n\noBIX is being developed within OASIS, the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards. Version 1.0 was completed as a committee standard in December 2006.\n\nPresently most mechanical and electrical systems are provided with embedded digital controls (DDC). Most of these devices are low cost and not enabled for TCP/IP. They are installed with dedicated communications wiring. Larger DDC controllers provide network communications for these dedicated controllers. There are many well established binary protocols (BACnet, LonTalk, Modbus, DALI) that are used on these dedicated networks in addition to numerous proprietary protocols. While these binary protocols can be used over TCP/IP networks - they have challenges with routers, firewalls, security, and compatibility with other network applications. There is an added challenge in that the industry is split between several largely incompatible protocols.\n\nBecause oBIX integrates with the enterprise, it enables mechanical and electrical control systems to provide continuous visibility of operational status and performance. By exposing these operations using web services, it enables owners and tenants to use the full array of standard databases and OLAP tools to analyse their performance. oBIX enables facilities operators, owners and tenants to make decisions based on a fully integrated consideration of all life-cycle, environmental, cost, and performance factors.\n\noBIX provides a publicly available web services interface specification that can be used to obtain data in a simple and secure manner from HVAC, access control, utilities, and other building automation systems, and to provide data exchange between facility systems and enterprise applications. Release 1 provides a normalized representation for three of elements common to control systems:\n\n\noBIX 1.0 provides a low level object model which can be extended during implementation. While points are directly addressable (and thereby settable), direct interaction with the points requires too much knowledge of the underlying control system for the enterprise developer. The underlying points can be aggregated, the results named, alarm levels set, and histories begun using the oBIX contract. If oBIX exposes a low level object model for control systems, oBIX contracts create the higher level type libraries that most programmers actually want to work with.\n\nTo keep a public space open in the evening may require a range of calls to different organizations within a building, each initiating an interaction with a separate building control system. To schedule a public meeting tonight from 7:00 to 9:00, the organizer may have to:\n\n\nIn an oBIX-enabled building, these features are accomplished by instead sending an iCalendar meeting invitation to the room and/or its support systems.\n\nThe Common Alerting Protocol (CAP) is a standard increasingly used for relaying information from various agencies to the public and to police and first responders. One challenge that public notification faces is that the traditional Emergency Broadcasting System for transmitting information over the radio is now much less effective, now that the public is tuned \ninstead to personal media players such as the iPod. New versions of these protocols anticipate, for example, direct texting of all cell phones in range of a given cell tower or set of cell towers.\n\nIn a similar manner, current proposals suggest direct messaging to Intelligent Buildings to invoke named oBIX contracts, with effects ranging from temporary user security elevation, to initiating process shut down, to notifying in-building warning systems to read messages aloud.\n\nThe Open Geospatial Consortium anticipates Emergency Responders being able to access certain classes of geo-tagged sensor information from buildings from within their maps to improve situational awareness.\n\nThe GridWise Architecture Council envisions an open market or Power Providers, Transmission, Distribution, and Customer Agents negotiating freely for live power contracts based on instantaneous demand/response. The ongoing installation across the US of Electric Meters able to provide time-of-day-metering is one step to enabling this. Another is the development of Intelligent Buildings able to negotiate with the grid.\n\nThese grid negotiations are likely to be of two forms. (1) An intelligent agent residing in the building, and negotiating with the building tenants and their business processes negotiates set building system operating postures. (2) An external agent hired by the building tenants aggregates demand across multiple buildings and buys power on their behalf. Markets based on these interactions are considered to be key to creating market conditions to drive rapid innovation in on-site power storage and generation technologies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4755434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4755434", "title": "Operation Last Call", "text": "Operation Last Call\n\nOperation Last Call is the name of a law enforcement operation in the state of Texas in which undercover agents of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission make arrests for public intoxication in places that serve alcoholic beverages. The aim of the operation, which was first announced in August 2005, is to prevent drunk driving. \n\nThe operation was suspended in April 2006 after extensive protests from the public.\n\nIn September 2006 the TABC would continue to make these types of arrests at local cultural festivals such as WestFest, a Czech heritage festival located on private grounds in West, Texas.\n\nAccording to the Houston Chronicle, 1,740 people statewide were arrested in connection with Operation Last Call.\n"}
{"id": "15206066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15206066", "title": "Organizational conflict", "text": "Organizational conflict\n\nOrganizational conflict, or workplace conflict, is a state of discord caused by the actual or perceived opposition of needs, values and interests between people working together. Conflict takes many forms in organizations. There is the inevitable clash between formal authority and power and those individuals and groups affected. There are disputes over how revenues should be divided, how the work should be done, and how long and hard people should work. There are jurisdictional disagreements among individuals, departments, and between unions and management. There are subtler forms of conflict involving rivalries, jealousies, personality clashes, role definitions, and struggles for power and favor. There is also conflict within individuals – between competing needs and demands – to which individuals respond in different ways.\n\nConflict affecting organizations can occur in individuals, between individual and between groups. Conflicts within work groups are often caused by struggles over control, status, and scarce resources. Conflicts between groups in organizations have similar origins. The constructive resolution of such conflicts can most often be achieved through a rational process of problem solving, coupled with a willingness to explore issues and alternatives and to listen to each other.\n\nA personal conflict involves a conflict between two people, most often from a mutual dislike or personality clash.\nAccording to Boston University FSAO, \"Causes for workplace conflict can be personality or style differences and personal problems such as substance abuse, childcare issues, and family problems. Organizational factors such as leadership, management, budget, and disagreement about core values can also contribute.\" University of Colorado–Boulder cites as primary causes of workplace conflict as poor communication, different values, differing interests, scarce resources, personality clashes, and poor performance.\n\nMany difficulties in this area are beyond the scope of management and more in the province of a professional counselor or workplace mediator, but there are some aspects of personal conflict that managers should understand and some they can possibly help remedy. Social conflict refers to interpersonal, intragroup, and intergroup differences. Organizational conflict at the interpersonal level includes disputes between peers as well as supervisor-subordinate conflict.\n\nIt was pointed out that there is a basic incompatibility between the authority and structure of formal organizations and the human personality. Human behavior cannot be separated from the culture that surrounds it.\n\nConflict arises in groups because of the scarcity of freedom, position, and resources. People who value independence tend to resist the need for interdependence and, to some extent, conformity within a group. People who seek power therefore struggle with others for position or status within the group. Rewards and recognition are often perceived as insufficient and improperly distributed, and members are inclined to compete with each other for these prizes.\n\nIn western culture, winning is more acceptable than losing, and competition is more prevalent than cooperation, all of which tends to intensify intragroup conflict. Group meetings are often conducted in a win-lose climate — that is, individual or subgroup interaction is conducted for the purpose of determining a winner and a loser rather than for achieving mutual problem solving.\n\nIntergroup conflict occurs in four general forms. Horizontal strain involves competition between functions, for example, sales versus production, research and development versus engineering, purchasing versus legal, line versus staff, and so on. Vertical strain involves competition between hierarchical levels, for example, union versus management, foremen versus middle management, shop workers versus foremen. A struggle between a group of employees and management is an example of vertical strain or conflict. A clash between a sales department and production over inventory policy would be an example of horizontal strain.\n\nCertain activities and attitudes are typical in groups involved in a win-lose conflict. Each side closes ranks and prepares itself for battle. Members show increased loyalty and support for their own groups. Minor differences between group members tend to be smoothed over, and deviants are dealt with harshly. The level of morale in the groups increases and infuses everyone with competitive spirit. The power structure becomes better defined, as the \"real\" leaders come to the surface and members rally around the \"best\" thinkers and talkers.\n\nIn addition, each group tends to distort both its own views and those of the competing group. What is perceived as \"good\" in one's own position is emphasized, what is \"bad\" is ignored; the position of the other group is assessed as uniformly \"bad,\" with little \"good\" to be acknowledged or accepted. Thus, the judgment and objectivity of both groups are impaired. When such groups meet to \"discuss\" their differences, constructive, rational behavior is severely inhibited. Each side phrases its questions and answers in a way that strengthens its own position and disparages the other's. Hostility between the two groups increases; mutual understandings are buried in negative stereotypes.\n\nIt is easy to see that under the conditions described above, mutual solutions to problems cannot be achieved. As a result, the side having the greater power wins; the other side loses. Or the conflict may go unresolved, and undesirable conditions or circumstances continue. Or the conflict may be settled by a higher authority.\n\nNone of these outcomes is a happy one. Disputes settled on the basis of power, such as through a strike or a lockout in a labor-management dispute, are often deeply resented by the loser. Such settlements may be resisted and the winner defeated in underground ways that are difficult to detect and to counter. When this happens, neither side wins; both are losers. If the conflict is left unresolved, as when both sides withdraw from the scene, intergroup cooperation and effectiveness may be seriously impaired to the detriment of the entire organization. Disputes that are settled by higher authority also may cause resentment and what is called \"lose-lose\" consequences. Such settlements are invariably made on the basis of incomplete information — without data that the conflict itself obscures — and therefore are poor substitutes for mutually reasoned solutions. Again, both sides have lost. A specific approach to resolving intergroup conflict is outlined in the next chapter on organization development.\n\nOne fact of personal conflict includes the multiple roles people play in organizations.\nBehavioral scientists sometimes describe an organization as a system of position roles. Each member of the organization belongs to a role set, which is an association of individuals who share interdependent tasks and thus perform formally defined roles, which are further influenced both by the expectations of others in the role set and by one's own personality and expectations. For example, in a common form of classroom organization, students are expected to learn from instructors by listening to them, following their directions for study, taking exams, and maintaining appropriate standards of conduct. Instructors are expected to bring students high-quality learning materials, give lectures, write and conduct tests, and set a scholarly example. Another in this role set would be the dean of the school, who sets standards, hires and supervises faculty, maintains a service staff, readers and graders, and so on. The system of roles to which an individual belongs extends outside the organization as well, and influences their functioning within it. As an example, a person's roles as partner, parent, descendant, and church member are all intertwined with each other and with their set of organizational roles.\n\nAs a consequence, there exist opportunities for role conflict as the various roles interact with one another. Other types of role conflict occur when an individual receives inconsistent demands from another person; for example, they are asked to serve on several time-consuming committees at the same time that they are urged to get out more production in their work unit. Another kind of role strain takes place when the individual finds that they are expected to meet the opposing demands of two or more separate members of the organization. Such a case would be that of a worker who finds himself pressured by their boss to improve the quality of their work while their work group wants more production in order to receive a higher bonus share.\n\nThese and other varieties of role conflict tend to increase an individual's anxiety and frustration. Sometimes they motivate him to do more and better work. Other times they can lead to frustration and reduced efficiency.\n\nPassive aggressive behavior is a common response from workers and managers which is particularly noxious to team unity and productivity. In workers, it can lead to sabotage of projects and the creation of a hostile environment. In managers, it can end up stifling a team's creativity. De Angelis says \"It would actually make perfect sense that those promoted to leadership positions might often be those who on the surface appear to be agreeable, diplomatic and supportive, yet who are actually dishonest, backstabbing saboteurs behind the scenes.\"\n\nOffice romances can be a cause of workplace conflict. 96 percent of human resource professionals and 80 percent of executives said workplace romances are dangerous because they can lead to conflict within the organization. Public displays of affection can make co-workers uncomfortable and accusations of favoritism may occur, especially if it is a supervisor-subordinate relationship. If the relationship goes awry, one party may seek to exact revenge on the other.\n\nUnresolved conflict in the workplace has been linked to miscommunication resulting from confusion or refusal to cooperate, quality problems, missed deadlines or delays, increased stress among employees, reduced creative collaboration and team problem solving, disruption to work flow, decreased customer satisfaction, distrust, split camps, and gossip.\n\nThe win-lose conflict in groups may have some of the following negative effects:\n\nConflict is not always destructive. When it is destructive, however, managers need to understand and do something about it. A rational process for dealing with the conflict should be programmed. Such a process should include a planned action response on the part of the manager or the organization, rather than relying on a simple reaction or a change that occurs without specific action by management.\n\nInterpersonal conflict among people at work has been shown to be one of the most frequently noted stressors for employees. Conflict has been noted to be an indicator of the broader concept of workplace harassment. It relates to other stressors that might co-occur, such as role conflict, role ambiguity, and workload. It also relates to strains such as anxiety, depression, physical symptoms, and low levels of job satisfaction.\n\nGroup conflict does not always lead to negative consequences. The presence of a dissenting member or subgroup often results in more penetration of the group's problem and more creative solutions. This is because disagreement forces the members to think harder in an attempt to cope with what may be valid objections to general group opinion. But the group must know how to deal with differences that may arise.\n\nTrue interdependence among members leads automatically to conflict resolution in the group. Interdependence recognizes that differences will exist and that they can be helpful. Hence, members learn to accept ideas from dissenters (which does not imply agreeing with them), they learn to listen and to value openness, and they learn to share a mutual problem-solving attitude to ensure the exploration of all facets of a problem facing the group.\n\nIntergroup conflict between groups is a sometimes necessary, sometimes destructive, event that occurs at all levels and across all functions in organizations. Intergroup conflict may help generate creative tensions leading to more effective contributions to the organization's goals, such as competition between sales districts for the highest sales. Intergroup conflict is destructive when it alienates groups that should be working together, when it results in win-lose competition, and when it leads to compromises that represent less-than-optimum outcomes.\n\nConstantino helps organizations design their own, ad hoc conflict management systems,\nTosi, Rizzo, and Caroll suggested that improving organizational practices could help resolve conflicts, including establishing superordinate goals, reducing vagueness, minimizing authority- and domain-related disputes, improving policies, procedures and rules, re-apportioning existing resources or adding new, altering communications, movement of personnel, and changing reward systems.\n\nMost large organizations have a human resources department, whose tasks include providing confidential advice to internal \"customers\" in relation to problems at work. This could be seen as less risky than asking one's manager for help. HR departments may also provide an impartial person who can mediate disputes and provide an objective point of view. Another option is the introduction of the Ombudsman figure at the organizational level, charged with surveying common causes of conflict and suggesting structural improvements to address them.\n\n\nA trained conflict resolver can begin with an economical intervention, such as getting group members to clarify and reaffirm shared goals. If necessary, they move through a systematic series of interventions, such as testing the members' ability and willingness to compromise; resorting to confrontation, enforced counseling, and/or termination as last resorts.\n\nWorkplace conflict may include disputes between peers, supervisor-subordinate conflict or intergroup disputes. When disputes are not dealt with in a timely manner, greater efforts may be needed to solve them. Party-Directed Mediation (PDM) is a mediation approach particularly suited for disputes between colleagues or peers, especially those based on deep-seated interpersonal conflict or multicultural or multiethnic ones. The mediator listens to each party separately in a pre-caucus or pre-mediation before ever bringing them into a joint session. Part of the pre-caucus also includes coaching and role plays. The idea is that the parties learn how to converse directly with their adversary in the joint session. Some unique challenges arise when disputes involve supervisors and subordinates. The Negotiated Performance Appraisal (NPA) is a tool for improving communication between supervisors and subordinates and is particularly useful as an alternate mediation model because it preserves the hierarchical power of supervisors while encouraging dialogue and dealing with differences in opinion.\n\nManagement is presumed to be guided by a vision of the future. The manager reflects in their decision-making activities the values of the organization as they have developed through time, from the original founder-owner to the present top-management personnel. In navigating a path between the values of the organization and its objectives and goals, management has expectations concerning the organization's effectiveness and efficiency and frequently initiates changes within the organization. On other occasions, changes in the external environment — market demand, technology, or the political, social, or economic environment — require making appropriate changes in the activities of the organization. The organization faces these demands for change through the men and women who make up its membership, since organizational change ultimately depends on the willingness of employees and others to change their attitudes, behavior, their degree of knowledge and skill, or a combination of these.\n"}
{"id": "11540234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11540234", "title": "Perkins Coie", "text": "Perkins Coie\n\nPerkins Coie is an international law firm headquartered in Seattle, Washington, and founded in 1912. It is the oldest and largest law firm headquartered in the Pacific Northwest and has a total of 19 offices across the United States and Asia. In addition to corporate representation, the firm often represents political clients.\n\nThe firm was founded in 1912 and has represented the Boeing Company since the founding of the aerospace company in 1916. Other clients include or have included Microsoft, Amazon.com, Starbucks, Costco, Craigslist, Google, Facebook, Intel, Twitter, AT&T, Zillow, REI, Intellectual Ventures, UPS, Barack Obama, Expedia, Safeco, T-Mobile, Dale Chihuly, Quora and Nintendo.\nPerkins Coie is counsel of record for the Democratic National Committee, Democratic Leadership Council, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Other political clients include nearly all Democratic members of the United States Congress. It has also represented several presidential campaigns, including those of John Kerry, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton. The group's Political Law practice was for many years headed by Robert Bauer and is now chaired by Marc Elias.\n\nThe firm represented Christine Gregoire in the prolonged litigation surrounding her 2004 Washington gubernatorial election.\n\nA team of Perkins lawyers headed by Elias successfully represented Al Franken in his recount and legal battle over the 2008 Senatorial election in Minnesota.\n\nIn 2006, Perkins Coie, led by partner Harry Schneider, represented Salim Ahmed Hamdan, the alleged driver and bodyguard of Osama Bin Laden. The case made its way to the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\", in which the Court ruled that the Bush Administration's use of military commissions to try terrorism suspects was unconstitutional.\n\nPerkins Coie worked in the \"Doe v. Reed\" case concerning petition signatures in state ballot initiative campaigns, which was argued successfully before the U.S. Supreme Court on April 28, 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Elias sought advisory opinions from the Federal Election Commission declaring that certain Google and Facebook advertisements were covered by the \"small items\" and \"impracticable\" exemptions of the law that otherwise requires a political advertisement to include a disclaimer revealing who paid for it. The commission granted Google's request in a divided vote, and deadlocked on Facebook's request. According to \"The New York Times\", \"Facebook nonetheless proceeded as if it was exempt from the disclaimer requirement\". In October 2017, Perkins Coie lobbied to defeat a bill called the \"Honest Ads Act\", which would require internet companies to disclose who paid for political ads.\n\nPerkins Coie was hired in 2015 as counsel for the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. As part of its representation of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee, Elias retained the intelligence firm Fusion GPS for opposition research services. Those services began in April 2016 and concluded before the 2016 U.S. Presidential election in early November. A notable product of that research was the dossier describing alleged attempts by Russia to promote the presidential campaign of Donald Trump. During the campaign, the Clinton campaign and the DNC paid Perkins Coie $5.6 million and $3.6 million respectively. On October 24, 2017, Perkins Coie released Fusion GPS from its client confidentiality obligation.\n\nPerkins Coie has been retained to conduct the independent investigation into potential sexual abuse by Dr. Richard Strauss during the course of his employment with The Ohio State University athletics program.\n\nLiving alumni of the firm include the 16th Lieutenant Governor of Washington Cyrus Habib, former Attorney General of Washington State Rob McKenna, 9th Circuit Court of Appeals Judges Margaret McKeown and Ronald M. Gould, and Oregon State Representative Chris Garrett.\n\nIn 2009, President Obama appointed Robert Bauer, the chair of the firm's Political Law practice, to become his White House Counsel. Bauer returned to private practice with Perkins Coie in 2011. In 2015, Hillary Clinton named Marc Elias as general counsel to her campaign.\n"}
{"id": "3482279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3482279", "title": "Priestman v Colangelo", "text": "Priestman v Colangelo\n\nPriestman v Colangelo S.C.R. 615, 19 DLR (2d) 1 (1959) is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on the exemption of police officers and other public authorities from being held liable for tortious acts. This case is also the most famous of the series of \"stumbling police\" cases dealt with by the Supreme Court during this era.\n\nA police officer was pursuing a car theft suspect when the officer attempted to shoot out the rear tire of the suspect's car. The bullet missed the tire, but hit the driver instead, causing him to drive off the road and kill two pedestrians. The Court held that the officer was not liable because he had acted reasonably in the course of his statutory duty to apprehend the suspect. A test for negligence was proposed by Locke J., viz:\n\n\"If the circumstances are such that the legislature must have contemplated that the exercise of a statutory power and the discharge of a statutory duty might interfere with private rights, and the person to whom the power is given and upon whom the duty is imposed acts reasonably, such interference will not give rise to an action.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9738989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9738989", "title": "Protected concerted activity", "text": "Protected concerted activity\n\nProtected Concerted Activity is a legal term used in labor policy to define employee protection against employer retaliation in the United States. It is a legal principle under the subject of the freedom of association. The term defines the activities workers may partake in without fear of employer retaliation. In countries where there is relatively robust employee dismissal protection, the protection of protected concerted activity is less of a distinct legal issue. In liberal market societies like the United States, where it is comparatively easy for an employer to fire an employee, the issue of protected concerted activity has become an important employment protection. \n\nThe National Labor Relations Act, the main labor policy governing labor relations in the United States, defines concerted activity in Section 7. \nSection 7 - Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection...\nGenerally speaking, there is protected concerted activity when two or more employees act together to improve their terms and conditions of employment, although it is (on rare occasions) possible for conduct to be so egregious that it becomes unprotected. Employees have a right to advocate in this manner even where there is no union involved. \n\nAt times, protected concerted activity has extended to individual employees; for example, when an employee speaks individually to his or her employer on behalf of him or herself and one or more co-workers about improving workplace conditions. An individual employee who seeks to enforce a collective bargaining agreement will generally be deemed to be engaged in concerted activity. On the other hand, an employee who acts as a \"whistleblower\" may or may not be engaging in concerted activity; if the complaint is entirely individual and the employee has not discussed it with co-workers, it is unlikely to be protected by the National Labor Relations Act (though it may well be protected under some other public policy).\n\nThe Act does not limit the manner, time, or place in which employees can engage in concerted activity. Consequently, in recent years, the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board has often taken the position that employee conversations about common workplace issues which make use of social media such as Facebook and Twitter are protected against retaliation.\n"}
{"id": "253189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253189", "title": "RedLibre", "text": "RedLibre\n\nRedLibre is a non profit project where a group of people, entities, administrations and companies interested in building a free data network to be able to provide data and share resources among other uses.\n\nRedLibre has been related mainly to Wireless Community Networks, very near the FreeNetwork project, but in Spain being a point of contact for the people to allow to join projects. To do that, at the beginning it was agreed a network allocation (in Spanish) based on CIDR and all the groups interested in becoming a freenetwork in Spain could reserve a subnetwork so compatibility and connectivity could be possible.\n\nRedLibre is a free networks wireless meta community in Spain.\n\nThe goals of the RedLibre project are:\n\nThe RedLibre project was created in September 2001 by Jaime Robles, and it is the first Spanish wireless community network.\n\n"}
{"id": "7684735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7684735", "title": "Revenue ruling", "text": "Revenue ruling\n\nRevenue rulings are public administrative rulings by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the United States Department of the Treasury of the United States federal government that apply the law to particular factual situations. A Revenue Ruling can be relied upon as precedent by all taxpayers. \n\nA Revenue Ruling is \"an official interpretation by the Internal Revenue Service that has been published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. Revenue Rulings are issued only by the National Office and are published for the information and guidance of taxpayers, Internal Revenue Service officials, and others concerned.\" Revenue Rulings are published \"to promote correct and uniform application of the tax laws by Internal Revenue Service employees and to assist taxpayers in attaining maximum voluntary compliance by informing Service personnel and the public of National Office interpretations of the internal revenue laws, related statutes, treaties, regulations, and statements of Service procedures affecting the rights and duties of taxpayers.\"\n\nA taxpayer may, for a fee, seek advice from the IRS as to the proper tax treatment of a transaction. This is called a private letter ruling. A private letter ruling binds only the IRS and the requesting taxpayer. Thus, a private ruling may not be cited or relied upon for precedent.\n\nThe IRS does have the option of redacting the text of a private ruling and issuing it as a Revenue Ruling, which may become binding on all taxpayers and the IRS. \"Even if it is clear that the taxpayer did not rely on a revenue ruling, courts will often hold the Service to the position expressed in the revenue ruling.\"\n\nRevenue Rulings are published both in the Internal Revenue Bulletin and in the Federal Register. The numbering system for Revenue Rulings corresponds to the year in which they are issued. Thus, for example, Revenue Ruling 79-24 was the twenty-fourth Revenue Ruling issued in 1979.\n\nPublic administrative rulings are part of second tier authorities and are subordinate to the Internal Revenue Code and other statutes, Treasury regulations, treaties and court decisions. They hold higher weight than tier 3 authorities such as legislative history and private letter rulings. Revenue Rulings can be used to avoid certain IRS penalties.\n\nRevenue Rulings are different from Revenue Procedures. A Revenue Procedure is an official statement of a procedure that affects the rights or duties of taxpayers under the law, while a Revenue Ruling is the conclusion of the IRS on how the law is applied to a specific set of facts. Generally, a Revenue Ruling states the IRS position, whereas a Revenue Procedure provides return filing or other instructions concerning the IRS position. \n\nFor example, a Revenue Ruling holds that taxpayers may deduct certain automobile expenses, and a Revenue Procedure provides that taxpayers entitled to deduct these automobile expenses may compute them by applying certain mileage rates in lieu of determining actual operating expenses.\n\nRevenue Rulings and Revenue Procedures are alike in that both are issued only by the National Office and both are for the information and guidance of taxpayers.\n\n"}
{"id": "17097017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17097017", "title": "Roberts v. United States Jaycees", "text": "Roberts v. United States Jaycees\n\nRoberts v. United States Jaycees, 468 U.S. 609 (1984), was an opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States overturning the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit's application of a Minnesota antidiscrimination law. The Eighth Circuit had concluded that, by requiring the United States Jaycees to admit women as full voting members, the Minnesota Human Rights Act violated the First and Fourteenth Amendment rights of the organization's members.\n\nIn an opinion authored by Justice Brennan, the Court held:\n\n\nJustice O'Connor wrote an opinion concurring with parts I and III of the Court's opinion and concurring in the judgment.\n\nJustice Rehnquist concurred in the judgment without joining either opinion. Justices Burger and Blackmun took no part in deciding the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "15457494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15457494", "title": "Rota system", "text": "Rota system\n\nThe rota system, from the Old Church Slavic word for \"family\"; or the lestva system, from the Old Church Slavic word for \"ladder\" or \"staircase\", was a system of collateral succession practiced \n(though imperfectly) in Kievan Rus' and later Appanage and early Muscovite Russia, in which the throne passed not linearly from father to son, but laterally from brother to brother (usually to the fourth brother) and then to the eldest son of the eldest brother who had held the throne. The system was rationalised by Yaroslav the Wise, who assigned each of his sons a principality based on seniority, though it predates his reign and was also used among the Norse of the British Isles. \n\nWhen the Grand Prince died, the next most senior prince moved to Kiev and all others moved to the principality next up the ladder. Only those princes whose fathers had held the throne were eligible for placement in the rota; those whose fathers predeceased their grandfathers were known as izgoi, \"excluded\" or \"orphaned\" princes.\n\nThe concept was first noted by Sergei Soloviev, and later summed up by Vasily Kliuchevsky, but in the intervening years, the structured and institutionalized rota system they presented has come under criticism by some, who doubt any such succession system to the Kievan throne existed at all. Indeed, scholars such as Sergeevich and Budovnitz argued that the seemingly endless internecine war among the princes of Kiev indicates a total lack of any established succession system. Others have modified the system but not fully abandoned it, such as A. D. Stokes, who denied that there was ever a geographic hierarchy of principalities, although there was a hierarchy of the princes themselves. Janet Martin argued that the system, in fact, worked. She argues that the interprincely wars were not a breakdown or absence of a system, but the further refinement of the system as the dynasty grew in size and relations became more complex. Each new outburst of violence addressed a new problem rather than rehashing old disputes.\n\nThe rota system was modified by the princely summit conference held at Liubech in the Chernigov lands in northern Ukraine in 1097. Certain lands were granted as patrimonial lands, that is inherited lands outside the rota system. These lands were not lost by a prince when the Kievan throne became vacant, and they served as core lands that grew up into semi-independent (if not outright independent) principalities in the later centuries of Kievan Rus, leading some historians to argue that Kievan Rus ceased to be a unified state. After this conference, the rota system continued to work within these patrimonial principalities at least up to the Mongol Invasion. The rota system also continued with regard to the Kievan throne after 1113 up to the Mongol Invasion as well.\n\nThe rota system in some aspects survived Kievan Rus' by more than a century. Indeed, the Muscovite civil war (1425–1453) between Vasily II and Dmitry Shemyaka was over this very issue. Shemyaka's father, Yury of Zvenigorod, claimed that he was the rightful heir to the throne of the principality of Vladimir through collateral succession. However, Yury's elder brother, Vasily I had passed the throne on to his son Vasily II. Dmitry and his brothers continued to press their father's and their line's claim to the throne, leading to open war between Vasily II and Shemyaka which led to Vasily's brief ouster and blinding, and Dmitry' assassination by poison in Novgorod the Great in 1453. Even before the civil war though, Vasily I's father, Dmitry Donskoi, had, in fact, passed the throne on to Vasily by a will that called for linear succession rather than collateral succession, but the issued didn't come to a head until Vasily's death because he was the eldest of his generation and was thus the rightful successor by both linear and collateral succession. Thus it was only with Vasily II that the Muscovite princes were finally able to break the long-held tradition of collateral succession and establish a system of linear succession to the Muscovite throne. In doing so, they kept power in Moscow, rather than seeing it pass to other princes in other towns.\n"}
{"id": "1612978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612978", "title": "Short and long titles", "text": "Short and long titles\n\nThe short title is the formal name by which a piece of primary legislation may by law be cited in the United Kingdom and other Westminster-influenced jurisdictions (such as Canada or Australia), as well as the United States and the Philippines. It contrasts with the long title which, while usually being more fully descriptive of the legislation's purpose and effects, is generally too unwieldy for most uses. For example, the short title \"House of Lords Act 1999\" contrasts with the long title \"An Act to restrict membership of the House of Lords by virtue of a hereditary peerage; to make related provision about disqualifications for voting at elections to, and for membership of, the House of Commons; and for connected purposes\".\n\nThe long title (properly, the title in some jurisdictions) is the formal title appearing at the head of a statute (such as an Act of Parliament or of Congress) or other legislative instrument. The long title is intended to provide a summarised description of the purpose or scope of the instrument. Like other descriptive components of an Act (such as the preamble, section headings, side notes, and short title) the long title seldom affects the operative provisions of an Act, except where the operative provisions are unclear or ambiguous and the long title provides a clear statement of the legislature's intention\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the long title is important since, under the procedures of Parliament, a Bill cannot be amended to go outside the scope of its long title. For that reason, modern long titles tend to be rather vague, ending with the formulation \"and for connected purposes\". The long title of an older Act is sometimes termed its rubric, because it was sometimes printed in red.\n\nShort titles for Acts of Parliament were not introduced until the mid-19th century, and were not provided for every Act passed until late in the century; as such, the long title was used to identify the Act. Short titles were subsequently given to many unrepealed Acts at later dates; for example, the Bill of Rights (1689) was given that short title by the Short Titles Act 1896, having until then been formally referred to only by its long title, \"An Act Declaring the Rights and Liberties of the Subject and Settling the Succession of the Crown\". Similarly, in the US, the Judiciary Act of 1789, which was famously ruled unconstitutional in part by \"Marbury v. Madison\", was called \"An Act to establish the Judicial Courts of the United States\". \n\nThe long title was traditionally followed by the preamble, an optional part of an Act setting out a number of preliminary statements of facts similar to recitals, each starting \"Whereas...\".\n\nUnlike the long title, which precedes the preamble and enacting formula, and thus sits outside the main body of text, the short title for modern legislation is explicitly defined by a specific section, typically at the very end or very beginning of the main text. As with the above example, short titles are generally made up of just a few words that describe in broad terms the area of law being changed or the thing affected, followed by the word \"Act\" and then the year in which the legislation is formally enacted.\n\nA notable exception is Israel, in which this convention is reversed. The short title sits outside the main body of legislation, and the summary description of the law, which is made optional, is defined by a specific section if existing. For example, the Combating Iran's Nuclear Program Act, which under the usual convention would have begun with the long title \"An Act to sanction entities assisting Iran in promoting its nuclear program or obtaining weapons of mass destruction or means of carrying weapons of mass destruction and to limit corporations who have business relations with Iran, for its favor or in its territory, as part of the international struggle against Iran's nuclear program\" and whose first section would have read \"This Act may be Cited As the 'Combating Iran's Nuclear Program Act, 5772-2012'\", actually begins with the short title \"Combating Iran's Nuclear Program Act, 5772-2012\", and its first section reads \"The Purpose of this Act is to sanction entities assisting Iran in promoting its nuclear program or obtaining weapons of mass destruction or means of carrying weapons of mass destruction and to limit corporations who have business relations with Iran, for its favor or in its territory, as part of the international struggle against Iran's nuclear program.\"\n\nThe titles of legislation enacted by the United States Congress, if they include a year, invariably add the preposition \"of\" between the word \"Act\" and the year. Compare the Australian Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth), Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (UK), and Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (USA). Even if no year was included in the official short title enacted by Congress, it is traditional always to precede the year with an \"of\" if it needs to be appended in prose after the short title. This convention is followed by most but not all U.S. states; for example, the Act of the Pennsylvania legislature that consolidated the governments of the city of Philadelphia and Philadelphia County is generally (though not formally) called the Act of Consolidation, 1854. The vast majority of Acts passed by the Parliament of Canada do not include the year of enactment as part of the short title. In the Philippine Congress, titling of legislation primarily follows the U.S. convention.\n\nSince the early 20th century, it has become popular in the United States to include the names of key legislators in the short titles of the most important Acts. This was at first done informally; that is, the names appeared in legal treatises and court opinions but were not part of the statute as enacted. Eventually members of Congress began to formally write their own names into short titles (thereby immortalizing themselves for posterity), as in the Hart–Scott–Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In some states, like California, some short titles consist \"only\" of the names of the key legislators, as in the Lanterman–Petris–Short Act, the statutory basis of the \"5150\" involuntary psychiatric hold used for detaining Hollywood celebrities. \n\nDraft legislation (bills) also uses short titles, but substitutes the word \"Bill\" for \" Act \".\n\nThe wording after \"An Act\" varies somewhat between jurisdictions. In some jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, the long title opens with the words \"An Act to ...\". For example, the short title of the House of Lords Act 1999 is \"House of Lords Act 1999\", but its long title is \"An Act to restrict membership of the House of Lords by virtue of a hereditary peerage; to make related provision about disqualifications for voting at elections to, and for membership of, the House of Commons; and for connected purposes\". UK bills substitute the words \"A Bill\" for \"An Act\". Thus, before it passed, the long title of the House of Lords Bill 1999 was \"A Bill to restrict membership...\". Because of the way they are used to define the scope of bills, many British long titles are quite long.\n\nWhile the long titles of most Acts of the US Congress read, \"An Act to...\", appropriations bills begin, \"An Act making appropriations for...\". Bills begin \"A Bill for an Act...\" Legislation in U.S. states also vary both in the exact wording and the level of detail of long titles. A typical long title in Illinois is, \"AN ACT concerning safety\", giving only a very broad characterization of the subject matter. On the other hand, a recent New Hampshire law carried the long title, \"AN ACT relative to establishing a municipal bond rescission process, authorizing governing bodies to call a special meeting to consider reduction or rescission of appropriations, and clarifying special procedures enabling towns to respond appropriately to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.\"\n\nAustralian long titles are more like American than British ones in that they are short and broad: for example, \"A Bill for an Act to provide for the establishment of the Automotive Transformation Scheme, and for related purposes\". However, not all states use long titles and an Act may instead have an explicit \"Purpose\" section.\n\nAn Act may be cited in an enactment or other document by, amongst other things, the short title of the Act.\n\nIn New Zealand long titles ceased to be used after 2000.\n\nLong titles in South Africa omit the initial \"An\".\n\nAn Act may continue to be cited by the short title authorised by any enactment notwithstanding the repeal of that enactment.\n\nNotwithstanding the repeal of an enactment giving a short title to an Act, the Act may, without prejudice to any other mode of citation, continue to be cited by that short title.\n\nOriginally short titles had a comma preceding the year. Whether this is retained or not depends on the country involved: it has been dropped in Ireland and the United Kingdom, but retained in Canada.\n\nIt is actually not necessary to use the comma as, although normal punctuation is now used by draftsmen, and is included in Queen's Printer's copies of Acts of Parliament, it is not part of an Act of Parliament.\n\nThe comma preceding the calendar year in printed copies of Acts is omitted on the authority of a note by Sir Noel Hutton QC, First Parliamentary Counsel, as to which see \"The Citation of Statutes\" 82 LQR 24-24. The validity of this note is questioned by Halsbury's Laws of England, Fourth Edition, Reissue, Volume 44(1), footnote 10 to paragraph 1268.\n\nGlanville Williams said that it \"seems sensible\" to omit the comma preceding the calendar year in references to Acts passed before 1963.\n\nIn citing an Act by its short title, a comma immediately before a reference to a year and a comma immediately after such a reference that is not required for the purpose of punctuation may be omitted.\n\nThe Australian Guide to Legal Citation recommends that the definite article at the beginning of the \"statute title\" should be omitted when citing a statute of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn \"Re Boaler\", Buckley LJ said:\n\nIn \"R v Wheatley\", Bridge LJ said of the Explosives Act 1875 and the Explosive Substances Act 1883:\n\nSince the second half of the nineteenth century, short titles have become the usual method of referencing earlier statute law within legislation itself. In the UK this replaced the earlier method of citing the long title together with the chapter number and the regnal year(s) of the parliamentary session in which it received Royal Assent. For example, modern legislation would simply refer to \"the Evidence Act 1845\", whereas in the past it would have been necessary to use wording such as \"the Act passed in the eighth and ninth year of Her Majesty's reign chapter one hundred and thirteen intituled 'An Act to facilitate the Admission in Evidence of certain official and other Documents.\n\nShort titles were introduced because the titles of statutes (now commonly known as long titles) had become so long that they were no longer a useful means of citation. For example, the title of 19 Geo.2 c.26 (1745) (Attainder of Earl of Kellie and others Act 1746) ran to 65 lines of King's Printer and to over 400 words.\n\nShort titles were first introduced for Acts of Parliament in the 1840s. Amending Acts also began to take the opportunity to create short titles for earlier Acts as well as for themselves. Eventually the Short Titles Act 1892 (55 & 56 Vict. c.10) was passed to create short titles for almost all remaining legislation. This statute was repealed and replaced by the Short Titles Act 1896, which conferred short titles on about 2,000 Acts. The Short Titles Act (Northern Ireland) 1951 conferred short titles on 179 Acts applying to Northern Ireland. The Statute Law Revision (Scotland) Act 1964 conferred short titles on 164 pre-union Acts of the Parliament of Scotland. Further short titles were given by the Statute Law Revision Act 1948, the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1977 and the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1978. \n\nIn Ireland, \"ex post facto\" short titles have been conferred by the Short Titles Act 1962, the Statute Law Revision Act 2007, the Statute Law Revision Act 2009 and the Statute Law Revision Act 2012. In the Australian Capital Territory, certain Acts were renamed by Schedule 1 to the Legislation Act 2001.\n\nIn a few cases, particular Acts have had more than one short title given to them, for example because subsequent amendments to their contents have rendered the earlier name inaccurate. For example, when the 1992 version of Basic Law: the Government – the so-called \"Direct Election law\" – made the post of Prime Minister of Israel elected, it added provisions regarding the Prime Ministerial election to the , and renamed it as \"Knesset and Prime Minister Elections Law, 1969\". This change was reverted following the abolition of direct Prime Ministerial elections in 2001.\n\nBritish (and English) legislation that has been \"inherited\" by the legal systems of other countries has also sometimes ended up with a short title in one jurisdiction that differs from that used in another: for example, the Act of Parliament that created the Dominion of Canada in 1867 is formally known in Canada as the Constitution Act, 1867, but is still known as the British North America Act 1867 in British law; note also the differing comma convention. Similarly, the Act \"21 & 22 George III c.48\" of the Parliament of Ireland is \"Yelverton's Act (Ireland) 1781 [I]\" in Northern Ireland and \"Calendar Act, 1781\" in the Republic of Ireland; the short titles were assigned respectively by Acts of the Parliament of Northern Ireland and the Oireachtas.\n\nMost short titles include a descriptive phrase followed by the type of legislation and the year of enactment; for example, the Human Rights Act 1998 is an Act of Parliament relating to human rights that received Royal Assent in 1998. Some exceptions exist, such as the Bill of Rights 1689, whose formal short title in the UK (as given by the Short Titles Act 1896) is simply \"Bill of Rights\", without a year, although it is not a Bill but an Act.\n\nMore narrowly focused legislation may have a secondary phrase in parentheses, such as the Road Traffic (Vehicle Emissions) Regulations 2002 (a Statutory Instrument).\n\nLaws that relate primarily to other laws, such as amendments, contain the short titles of those laws in their own short titles, for example the Sustainable Communities Act 2007 (Amendment) Act 2010. Subsequent enactments can lead to particularly lengthy short titles; for example, the Artizans' and Labourers' Dwellings Act 1868, amended by the Artizans' and Labourers' Dwellings Act 1868 (Amendment) Act 1869, and itself amended by the Artizans' and Labourers' Dwellings Act 1868 (Amendment) Act 1879 (Amendment) Act 1880. The more recent shorter convention is that an act amending \"Foo Act yyy1\" will have short title \"Foo (Amendment) Act yyy2\".\n\nIf a law is passed with the same title as another law passed in the same year, an ordinal number will be added to distinguish it from the others; this is particularly common for Finance Acts (Finance (No. 3) Act 2010) and commencement orders that bring parts of an Act into force (Environment Act 1995 (Commencement No.13) (Scotland) Order 1998). However, for laws that amend other laws, this ordinal numbering does not reset every year (For example, even though only two amendments were made to the Israeli Criminal Procedure Law in 2018, these amendments are numbered No.81 and No.82 in their titles.)\n\nIn Ireland, the Thirty-First Amendment of the Constitution (Children) Act 2012 was enacted in 2015 rather than 2012. It was passed by both houses of the Oireachtas in 2012 but not signed into law by the President until 2015, after an intervening referendum and court challenge. Section 2(2) of the act, which assigns the short title, could not be amended between the houses' passing the bill and its being enacted (though it could still be amended by a subsequent act of the Oireachtas). This act's short title is longer than its long title (\"An Act to Amend the Constitution\", as required by the constitution).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21819349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21819349", "title": "Sino-Pakistan Agreement", "text": "Sino-Pakistan Agreement\n\nThe Sino-Pakistan Agreement (also known as the Sino-Pakistan Frontier Agreement and Sino-Pak Boundary Agreement) is a 1963 document between the governments of Pakistan and China establishing the border between those countries. It resulted in China ceding over to Pakistan and Pakistan recognizing Chinese sovereignty over hundreds of square kilometers of land in Northern Kashmir and Ladakh. The agreement is controversial, not recognized as legal by India, which also claims sovereignty over part of the land. In addition to increasing tensions with India, the agreement shifted the balance of the Cold War by bringing Pakistan and China closer together while loosening ties between Pakistan and the United States.\nIn 1959 Pakistan became concerned that Chinese maps showed areas of Pakistan in China. In 1961 Ayub Khan sent a formal Note to China, there was no reply. It is thought that the Chinese may not have been motivated to negotiate with Pakistan because of Pakistan's relations with India, with which China was soon to enter a war with.\n\nAfter Pakistan voted to grant China a seat in the United Nations, the Chinese withdrew the disputed maps in January 1962, agreeing to enter border talks in March. The willingness of the Chinese to enter the agreement was welcomed by the people of Pakistan. Negotiations between the nations officially began on October 13, 1962 and resulted in an agreement being signed on 2 March 1963. It was signed by foreign ministers Chen Yi for the Chinese and Zulfikar Ali Bhutto for the Pakistani.\n\nThe agreement resulted in China withdrawing from about 750 sq m of territory, and Pakistan withdrawing its claim to about 2,050 sq m of territory (which it had not in fact occupied or administered).\n\nChina's extended territory became known as Trans-Karakoram Tract. The area is part of Kargilik County.\n\nThe text of the agreement was as follows:\n\nThe agreement was moderately economically advantageous to Pakistan, which received grazing lands in the deal, but of far more significance politically, as it both diminished potential for conflict between China and Pakistan and, Syed indicates, \"placed China formally and firmly on record as maintaining that Kashmir did not, as yet, belong to India. India does not recognize the agreement, under which China holds of northern Kashmir, as legal. \"Time\", reporting on the matter in 1963, expressed the opinion that by signing the agreement Pakistan had further \"dimmed hopes of settlement\" of the Kashmir conflict between Pakistan and India.\n\nAccording to \"Jane's International Defence Review\", the agreement was also of significance in the Cold War, as Pakistan had ties with the United States and membership in the Central Treaty Organization and the Southeast Asian Treaty Organization. The agreement was part of an overall tightening of association with China for Pakistan, which resulted in Pakistan's distancing from the United States. After defining borders, the two countries also entered into agreements with respect to trade and air-travel, the latter of which was the first such international agreement China had entered with a country that was not Communist.\n\n"}
{"id": "37615716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37615716", "title": "Thomas E. Kauper", "text": "Thomas E. Kauper\n\nThomas E. Kauper (born 1935) is an American lawyer and legal scholar. He is the Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law Emeritus at the University of Michigan Law School. Kauper is best known as a property law and antitrust expert. Kauper served as Assistant Attorney General for the United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division from 1972 to 1976. Kauper's more recent work focuses on European Union antitrust and competition law.\n\nKauper is the son of Professor Paul G. Kauper, who graduated from the University of Michigan Law School in 1932. Kauper earned his A.B. from the University of Michigan in 1957 and his J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School in 1960. At Michigan Law, Kauper was editor-in-chief of the \"Michigan Law Review\" and was elected to the Order of the Coif. He was a law clerk for Justice Potter Stewart of the U.S. Supreme Court from 1962 to 1964. He practiced law in Chicago from 1962 to 1964 before joining the University of Michigan Law School faculty in 1964.\n\nKauper's work is mainly in the fields of property and antitrust law. He is the coauthor of \"Property: An Introduction to the Concept and the Institution\", a leading property casebook. Kauper served for 14 years as a member of the American Bar Association Council of the Antitrust Section, and served for one year served as vice-chairman of the Section. Kauper was the John M. Olin Visiting Professor of Business, Economics, and Law at Harvard Law School in winter 2002.\n\nAt Michigan Law, Kauper taught property, antitrust, unfair trade practices, trusts and estates, and other courses.\n\nKauper twice took leaves of absence from Michigan Law faculty to serve in U.S. Department of Justice posts: first as deputy assistant attorney general in the Office of Legal Counsel from 1969 to 1971, where he was deputy to William H. Rehnquist, and then as Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division from 1972 to 1976.\n\nKauper retired as an active faculty member at Michigan Law and assumed emeritus status on May 31, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "7164784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7164784", "title": "Turkish Constitution of 1924", "text": "Turkish Constitution of 1924\n\nThe Constitution of 1924, formally titled the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey (Ottoman Turkish: \"Teşkilât-ı Esasiye Kanunu\"; ), was the fundamental law of Turkey from 1924 to 1961. It replaced the Constitution of 1921 and was ratified by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey following the proclamation of the republic on October 29, 1923. It was ratified on April 20, 1924. It remained in force until the 1960 \"coup d'état\", following which it was replaced by the Constitution of 1961.\n\nThe Turkish Constitution of 1924 had 105 articles and was divided into six sections:\n\nThe Constitution of 1924 was in application for 36 years from 1924 until 1961. During this time, it served as the basis for many fundamental changes that sought to transform Turkey into a modern, secular and democratic Republic.\n\n\nThe first change occurred on April 10, 1928, which changed, inter alia, Article 2 and the sentence \"Religion of the Turkish state is Islam\" was deleted. Further changes followed on 10 and December 11, 1931 and 1934 respectively. As a result, women were given the right to vote and stand for election. In 1937, the constitution was changed twice. Law No. 3115 of February 5, 1937 enshrined the six basic principles of Kemalism in the Constitution.\n\nOn January 10, 1945, the constitution was revised with Law No. 4695 in the sense of Turkification of the language and translated into modern Turkish. However, this recast was reversed by Law No 5997 of December 24, 1952, which restored the constitution to its constitution before 1945.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35012317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35012317", "title": "United States v. Graham", "text": "United States v. Graham\n\nUnited States v. Graham, 846 F. Supp. 2d 384 (D. Md. 2012), was a Maryland District Court case in which the Court held that historical cell site location data is not protected by the Fourth Amendment. Reacting to precedent established by the recent Supreme Court case \"United States v. Jones\" in conjunction with the application of the third party doctrine, Judge Richard D. Bennett, found that \"information voluntarily disclosed to a third party ceases to enjoy Fourth Amendment protection\" because that information no longer belongs to the consumer, but rather to the telecommunications company that handles the transmissions records. The historical cell site location data is then not subject to the privacy protections afforded by the Fourth Amendment standard of probable cause, but rather to the Stored Communications Act, which governs the voluntary or compelled disclosure of stored electronic communications records.\n\nA three judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the district court on the Fourth Amendment issue in August 2015, but the full court \"en banc\" upheld the district court in May 2016.\n\nWith the increase in usage of cellular phones by the public, the government turned to exploitation of cellular phone technology to track the movements of suspects. This phenomenon led to suits by defendants who claimed that use of such technology to track their movements amounted to an invasion of their privacy.\n\nThe courts were divided over whether such tracking amounted to intruding in a person's personal sphere. Some courts decided that such tracking to obtain cell site location data implicated the Fourth Amendment, and applied the 'probable cause' standard stipulated under the Fourth Amendment to such cases- \"In re Application of the United States\" [809 F. Supp. 2d 113 (E.D.N.Y. 2011)], \"In re Application of the United States\" [747 F. Supp. 2d 827 (S.D. Tex. 2010)]. These courts however also clarified that the Fourth Amendment is not implicated if the request for acquisition of cell site location information is for a short period of time.\n\nOther cases were decided in favor of applying the 'specific and articulable facts' standard under the Stored Communications Act, since the courts believed that such acquisition of historical cell site location data did not implicate the Fourth Amendment- \"United States v. Dye\" (N.D. Ohio Apr. 27, 2011), \"United States v. Velasquez\" (N.D. Cal Oct, 22, 2010), \"In re Application of the United States for Historical Cell Site Data\", 724 F.3d 600 (5th Cir. 2013).\n\nThe Defendants, Aaron Graham and Eric Jordan, were charged for a series of armed robberies of commercial entities including a Burger King restaurant and a McDonald's restaurant in Baltimore, Maryland on February 5, 2011. Ten minutes after the McDonald's robbery, the defendants were found and arrested by the police and, upon request, provided their cell phone numbers to the officers at the scene. Two cell phones were recovered from the Defendant's car, which matched the numbers that the Defendants had provided earlier. Before Baltimore Detective Christopher Woerner searched the contents of the phones, he requested search warrants for the devices from the Circuit Court.\n\nOn March 25, 2011, Magistrate Judge Susan K. Gauvey granted the government's request to order Sprint/Nextel, Inc. to \"disclose to the government 'the identification and address of cellular towers (cell site locations) related to the use of' the Defendants' cellular telephones\" pursuant to the Stored Communications Act. The order requested the disclosure of geographic data for August 10–15, 2010; September 18–20, 2010; January 21–23, 2011; and February 4–5, 2011 dates important for linking the defendants to the robberies. Gauvey determined that the goal of linking the suspects to the robberies fit the standard of the government offering \"specific and articulable facts.\" On July 15, 2011, the government was granted a second order from Magistrate Judge Paul W. Grimm for the cell site location for the period of July 1, 2010 through February 6, 2011. Spring/Nextel, Inc. provided the data to the government pursuant to this order.\n\nOn December 8, 2011, Judge Bennett of the District Court held a hearing to determine if the Cellular Phone Data and Historical Cell Site Location Data should be granted the motion to suppress at the Defendant's request.\n\nThe Defendants argued that the historical cell site location data acquired without a warrant was in violation of the Fourth Amendment because the \"length of time and extent of the cellular phone monitoring intruded on the Defendants' expectation of privacy.\" The Defendants claimed that the data granted to the government allowed the \"government to paint an intimate picture of the Defendants' whereabouts over an extensive period of time\". They contended that the implications of this technology allow the government to retroactively surveil a suspect through a device he carries with him twenty-four hours a day, even to constitutionally protected places such as the home.\n\nIn response to the Defendants' claims, the government argued that they lacked standing because Defendant Jordan used a fictitious name and address when subscribing to the phone service and this demonstrated a lack of privacy interest in the location records. The government also contended that the records were the proprietary business records of the cell phone carriers and that the Defendants voluntarily gave their records to the cellular service company. The government analogized the cell site location data to the pen register, and used the third-party doctrine established by the Supreme Court case \"Smith v. Maryland\" to argue that the defendants had voluntarily given their information to the third party which did not implicate the Fourth Amendment based on precedent.\n\nThe government also contended that the Stored Communications Act's \"lower 'specific and articulable facts' standard provides adequate privacy protections... and notwithstanding recent cases [\"United States v. Antoine Jones\"], the majority of courts have concluded that \"the government's acquisition of cell site location data without a warrant does not violate the Fourth Amendment\". Lastly, the government argued that, if the Court were to conclude that the acquisition of the cell site location data was unconstitutional, the appropriate remedy would not be suppression of the evidence.\n\nThe court reiterated that the 'specific and articulable facts' standard stipulated in the Stored Communications Act, is lower than the threshold requirement established by the 'probable cause' standard under the Fourth Amendment. The 'specific and articulable facts' standard is defined in section 2703(d) of the Act. It states that the governmental entity seeking the information must offer specific and articulable facts that \"there are reasonable grounds to believe that the contents of a wire or electronic communication, or the records or other information sought, are relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation.\"\n\nRegarding the government's argument about the defendant's lack of standing because of the fictitious name he used, the Court considered the issue combined with the legitimacy of the expectation of privacy in the historical cell site location data. The court cited \"Katz v. United States\", wherein it was stated that any object that a person knowingly exposes to the public, cannot rightfully be claimed as the subject of a Fourth Amendment protection. However, anything that a person strives to protect as private, even if such object is situated in an area accessible to the public, may fall under the purview of the Fourth Amendment.\n\nIn \"Katz v. United States\", Justice Harlan evolved a two-prong test to determine when an object may be the subject of a Fourth Amendment protection. He stated that protection may be extended to those areas where a person has a subjective expectation of privacy, and that expectation is also objectively reasonable. Justice Rehnquist reiterated this principle in \"Rakas v. Illinois\", when he stated that a 'legitimate expectation of privacy' cannot be confined to a mere subjective expectation of something being kept private. He stated that a legitimate expectation of privacy \"must have a source outside of the Fourth Amendment, either by reference to concepts of real or personal property or to understandings that are recognized and permitted by society.\"\n\nThe court in this case declined to consider the issue of the defendants' 'standing' separately from the issue of the legitimate expectation of privacy in the historical cell site location data. The court pronounced that the real and substantial issue to be decided in the case was whether the defendants had a legitimate expectation of privacy in the historical cell site location data or not.\n\nIn \"Katz v. United States\", the Supreme Court held that the \"Fourth Amendment protects people, not places. What a person knowingly exposes to the public...is not subject of Fourth Amendment protection.\" First the Court cited \"Smith v. Maryland\" where the Supreme Court held that \"a person has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information he voluntarily turns over to third parties,\" and that the users of third party services are aware that they are conveying their information to the companies in order for the service to work. Using the reasoning of \"United States v. Miller\", the Court determined that historical cell site location records were not the Defendant's private papers, but were the business records of the cellular providers. Coupling this logic with the Fourth Circuit's in \"United States v. Bynum\", which \"concluded that because Bynum voluntarily conveyed his location to his internet company, he enjoyed no reasonable expectation of privacy in that information,\" the Court determined that the third-party doctrine was applicable to historical cell site location information and that the Fourth Amendment was therefore not implicated.\n\nNext, the Court considered the question of time - if there was an exception to the third-party doctrine if the records requested were \"cumulative.\" Judge Bennett cited multiple past orders in various districts which held that there was no Fourth Amendment violation if the request was for a concrete and short period of time. Citing the mosaic theory of the Fourth Amendment created in \"United States v. Maynard\" (the D.C. Circuit case leading to the Supreme Court \"United States v. Antoine Jones\" case), the court found that \"individual investigatory steps taken by law enforcement do not amount to a Fourth Amendment violation, but when viewed in the aggregate...infringe on a person's reasonable expectations of privacy.\" However, Judge Bennett disagreed with this reasoning and stated that Congress expressly intended to require only \"specific and articulable facts\" in its enactment of the Stored Communications Act for the precise purpose that individuals do not have a legitimate expectation of privacy in information conveyed to third parties. Therefore, citing the majority opinion in \"U.S. v. Jones\", Judge Bennett reasoned that if technology is altered in the future to intrude on the reasonable expectation of privacy, the legislature would be the body best fit to address this issue.\n\nBecause the \"Jones\" case set the Supreme Court precedent for surveillance by the government using certain electronic devices to be violations of the Fourth Amendment, Judge Bennet elucidated the distinctions between \"U.S. v. Jones\" and the case at hand. A GPS device was the issue in Jones, and Judge Bennett noted that unlike GPS information, historical cell site location data is only \"retroactive\", not \"prospective\" - it does not give the government the ability to track the precise movements of the suspect in real time. The next difference between the two and from \"Smith v. Maryland\" that Judge Bennett noted was that historical cell site location can \"only reveal which cellular towers were used to route a particular call\" and therefore can only give a general location where a cell phone was used and only where the closest cellular tower was. Also, Judge Bennet separates the cases because the GPS surveillance was conducted without a valid warrant in \"Jones,\" but in this case, the Stored Communications Act had the standard of \"specific and articulable facts,\" which enabled the judicial branch to prevent and remedy executive overreaching.\n\nLastly, Judge Bennett specified that the majority opinion in \"Jones\" ultimately did not consider whether the \"search\" in the case violated the individual's reasonable expectation of privacy and therefore, until a higher court analyzes this question or Congress comes up with a solution other than the Stored Communications Act, Judges must apply the facts of the case to the law as is currently interpreted.\n\nBecause the officers pursuing the historical cell site location data relied in good faith on the Stored Communications Act and the orders issued by the Magistrate Judges, the exclusionary rule does not apply as per \"Illinois v. Krull\". There was no challenge to whether the Stored Communication Act applied to this case. Therefore, the data would still be admissible in the trial as evidence and suppression would not be an appropriate remedy.\n\nThe court held that the Fourth Amendment is not implicated in the acquisition of historical cell site location data because of the application of the third party doctrine. The court stated that such information is created and kept by third parties as part of their ordinary course of business. Judge Bennett concluded that the Defendants' Fourth Amendment rights were not violated when the government, according to the standards of the Stored Communications Act, acquired their historical cell site location data. The Defendants' Motion to Suppress Evidence of historical cell site data was therefore denied.\n\nIn August 2015, a three judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals voted 2-1 to overturn the district court ruling that Fourth Amendment rights were not violated. \"We conclude that the government's warrantless procurement of the CSLI [cell site location information] was an unreasonable search in violation of Appellants' Fourth Amendment rights. Nevertheless, because the government relied in good faith on court orders issued in accordance with Title II of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, or the Stored Communications Act (\"SCA\"), we hold the court's admission of the challenged evidence must be sustained.\"\nThe government asked the court to rehear the case en banc. Oral arguments in the appeal were heard March 23, 2016.\n\nIn May 2016 the full 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, voted 12-3 that the government can get the information without a warrant under a decades-old legal theory that it had already been disclosed to a third party, in this case a telephone company.\n\nSome commentators have expressed the opinion that the decision does not postulate a general rule with respect to surveillance measures through new technology. They have reflected the view that in drawing a difference between prospective and historical data, Judge Bennet may have rendered a narrow decision, which is particular to historical data.\n\nIn a subsequent case decided September 23, 2014, Judge Bennet noted that \"\"United States v. Graham\" is currently on appeal to the Fourth Circuit and has been pending before that Court for nearly two years.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35368674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35368674", "title": "United States v. Manning", "text": "United States v. Manning\n\nUnited States v. Manning was the court-martial of former United States Army Private First Class Bradley E. Manning (known after the trial as Chelsea Manning).\n\nAfter serving in Iraq since October 2009, Manning was arrested in May 2010 after Adrian Lamo, a computer hacker in the United States, indirectly informed the Army's Criminal Investigation Command that Manning had acknowledged passing classified material to the whistleblower website, WikiLeaks. Manning was ultimately charged with 22 specified offenses, including communicating national defense information to an unauthorized source, and the most serious of the charges, aiding the enemy. Other charges included violations of the Espionage Act, stealing U.S. government property, charges under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and charges related to the failure to obey lawful general orders under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Manning entered guilty pleas to 10 of 22 specified offenses in February 2013.\n\nThe trial on the 12 remaining charges began on June 3, 2013. It went to the judge on July 26, 2013, and findings were rendered on July 30. Manning was acquitted of the most serious charge, that of aiding the enemy, for giving secrets to WikiLeaks. In addition to five or six espionage counts, Manning was also found guilty of five theft specifications, two computer fraud specifications and multiple military infractions.\n\nOn August 21, 2013, Manning was sentenced to 35 years' imprisonment, reduction in pay grade to E-1, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and a dishonorable discharge. On January 17, 2017, President Obama commuted Manning's sentence to a total of 7 years confinement. Manning was released on May 17, 2017. On May 31, 2018, the U.S. Army Court of Criminal Appeals upheld Manning's conviction of violating the Espionage Act.\n\nThe material in question includes 251,287 United States diplomatic cables, over 400,000 classified army reports from the Iraq War (the Iraq War logs), and approximately 90,000 army reports from the war in Afghanistan (the Afghan War logs). WikiLeaks also received two videos. One was of the July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrike (dubbed the \"Collateral Murder\" video); the second, which was never published, was of the May 2009 Granai airstrike in Afghanistan.\n\nManning was charged on July 5, 2010, with violations of Articles 92 and 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which were alleged to have taken place between November 19, 2009, and May 27, 2010. These were replaced on March 1, 2011, with 22 specifications, including aiding the enemy, wrongfully causing intelligence to be published on the Internet knowing that it was accessible to the enemy, theft of public property or records, and transmitting defense information. Manning was found not guilty for the most serious of the charges, aiding the enemy, for which Manning could have faced life in prison.\n\nA panel of experts ruled in April 2011 that Manning was fit to stand trial. An Article 32 hearing, presided over by Lieutenant Colonel Paul Almanza, was convened on December 16, 2011, at Fort Meade, Maryland, to determine whether to proceed to a court martial. The army was represented by Captains Ashden Fein, Joe Morrow, and Angel Overgaard. Manning was represented by military attorneys Major Matthew Kemkes and Captain Paul Bouchard, and by civilian attorney David Coombs.\n\nThe hearing resulted in Almanza recommending that Manning be referred to a general court-martial, and on February 3, 2012, the convening authority, Major General Michael Linnington, commander of the Military District of Washington, ordered Manning to stand trial on all 22 specified charges, including aiding the enemy. Manning was formally charged (arraigned) on February 23, and declined to enter a plea.\n\nThe lead prosecutor, Captain Fein, argued that Manning had given enemies \"unfettered access\" to the material and had displayed an \"absolute indifference\" to classified information. He showed the court a video of Adam Gadahn, an al-Qaeda spokesman, referencing the leaked material.\n\nThe prosecution presented 300,000 pages of documents in evidence, including chat logs and classified material. Nicks writes that Manning appeared to have taken few security precautions. After Manning's arrest, detectives searched a basement room in Potomac, Maryland, and found an SD card they say contained the Afghan and Iraq War logs, along with a message to WikiLeaks. Investigators said Manning had also left computer trails of Google and Intelink searches, and of using Wget to download documents.\n\nLieutenant Colonel Almanza heard from two army investigators, Special Agent David Shaver, head of the digital forensics and research branch of the army's Computer Crime Investigative Unit (CCIU), and Mark Johnson, a digital forensics contractor from ManTech International, who works for the CCIU. They testified that they had found 100,000 State Department cables on a computer Manning had used between November 2009 and May 2010; 400,000 U.S. military reports from Iraq and 91,000 from Afghanistan on the SD card; and 10,000 cables on a personal MacBook Pro and storage devices that they said had not been passed to WikiLeaks because a file was corrupted. They also said they had recovered an exchange from May 2010 between Manning and Eric Schmiedl, a Boston mathematician, in which Manning had admitted to being the source of the Baghdad helicopter attack (\"Collateral Murder\") video.\n\nJohnson said he found a text file called wl-press.txt on an external hard drive in Manning's room in Iraq. The file was created on November 30, 2009, and gave the contact detail in Iceland for WikiLeaks. He said he also recovered 14–15 pages of encrypted chats, in unallocated space on Manning's MacBook's hard drive, between Manning and someone believed to be Julian Assange, using the Adium instant messaging client. The MacBook's log-in password was found to be the encryption key. Two of the chat handles, which used the Berlin Chaos Computer Club's domain (ccc.de), had names associated with them, Julian Assange and Nathaniel Frank. Johnson also said he found SSH logs on the MacBook that showed an SFTP connection, from an IP address that resolved to Manning's aunt's home, to a Swedish IP address with links to WikiLeaks. There was also a text file named \"Readme\" attached to the logs, apparently written by Manning:\n\nItems of historical significance of two wars Iraq and Afghanistan Significant Activity, Sigacts, between 00001 January 2004 and 2359 31 December 2009 extracts from CSV documents from Department of Defense and CDNE database. These items have already been sanitized of any source identifying information.\n\nYou might need to sit on this information for 90 to 180 days to figure out how best to send and distribute such a large amount of data to a large audience and protect the source.\n\nThis is possibly one of the most significant documents of our time, removing the fog of war and revealing the true nature of 21st century assymmetric warfare.\n\nHave a good day.\n\nJohnson said there had been two attempts to delete material from the MacBook. The operating system was re-installed in January 2010, and on or around January 31 an attempt was made to erase the hard drive by doing a \"zero-fill,\" which involves overwriting material with zeroes. This process was started, cancelled, then started again with a single pass. The material was recovered after the overwrite attempts from unallocated space.\n\nThe defense named 48 people it wanted to appear on Manning's behalf. The list was believed to include President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Clinton had said that the diplomatic cables published by WikiLeaks \"did not represent significant consequences to foreign policy.\" Obama was named because of an April 2011 statement that Manning \"broke the law\": Obama's statement was later echoed by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, who said \"We're a nation of laws. He did violate the law.\"\n\nManning's lawyers argued that the government had overstated the harm the release of the documents had caused, and had overcharged Manning in order to obtain evidence against Assange. They suggested that other people had had access to Manning's workplace computer, and under cross-examination Shaver acknowledged that some of the 10,000 cables on Manning's personal computer did not match cables published by WikiLeaks. Coombs asked for the dismissal of any charge related to the use of unauthorized software, arguing that Manning's unit had been \"lawless ... when it comes to information assurance.\"\n\nThe defense also raised the issue of whether Manning's gender identity disorder had affected Manning's judgment. Manning had e-mailed master sergeant, Paul Adkins, in April 2010 to say she was suffering from gender confusion and, despite then living as a man, attaching a photograph of herself dressed as a woman. After Manning's arrest, the army found information about hormone replacement therapy in her room, and Manning's commander, Captain Steven Lim, learned that she had been calling herself Breanna. Defense lawyers argued that the superiors had failed to provide adequate counseling, and had not taken disciplinary action or revoke Manning's security clearance. They also suggested that the \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy—which was repealed in September 2011—had made it difficult for Manning to serve in the army as a gay man.\n\nAfter the hearing, in January 2012, Coombs filed a request to depose six witnesses, whose names were redacted in the application, and who are believed to have been involved in classifying the leaked videos. Coombs argues that the videos were not classified at the time they were obtained by WikiLeaks.\n\nAn Article 39 hearing was convened on April 24, 2012, during which the judge, Colonel Denise Lind, denied a defense motion to dismiss the charge of aiding the enemy, and ruled that the government must be able to show that Manning knew the enemy would be able to access information on the WikiLeaks site. She ordered the CIA, FBI, DIA, State Department, and Department of Justice to release documents showing their assessment of whether the leaked material had damaged the national interest of the United States. Lind said she would decide after reading the documents whether to make them available to Manning's lawyers. She also ordered forensic imaging of five computers removed from Manning's work station that had not yet been wiped clean.\n\nAt the start of the hearing, Manning replaced the assigned two military defense lawyers, Major Matthew Kemkes and Captain Paul Bouchard, with Captain Joshua Tooman. The next Article 39 hearing was set for June 6–8 and trial was set for September 2012.\n\nThe Center for Constitutional Rights filed a petition in May 2012 asking the Army Court of Criminal Appeals to order press and public access to motion papers, orders, and transcripts. Petitioners included Julian Assange, Amy Goodman of \"Democracy Now!\", Chase Madar, author of \"The Passion of Bradley Manning\" (2011), and Glenn Greenwald of \"Salon\".\n\nOn September 19, 2012, Manning's attorneys filed a motion to dismiss all charges with prejudice, arguing that Manning had been unable to obtain a speedy trial. The motion claimed that the 845 days spent in pretrial confinement was longer than the periods that the law says is unreasonable. (United States military law normally requires a trial within 120 days.) Judge Lind ruled against the defense motion and allowed for the delay because the prosecution needed more time to prepare its case.\n\nOn February 28, 2013, Manning pleaded guilty to 10 of the 22 specified charges. Military judge Colonel Denise Lind accepted the guilty pleas, for which Manning could face up to 20 years in prison. Manning did not plead guilty to the most significant charge of aiding the enemy.\n\nManning acknowledged having provided archives of military and diplomatic files to WikiLeaks. She pleaded guilty to 10 criminal counts in connection with the material leaked, which included videos of airstrikes in Iraq and Afghanistan in which civilians were killed, logs of military incident reports, assessment files of detainees held at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, and a quarter-million cables from American diplomats stationed around the world. Manning read a statement recounting how she joined the military, became an intelligence analyst in Iraq, decided that certain files should become known to the American public to prompt a wider debate about foreign policy, downloaded them from a secure computer network and then ultimately uploaded them to WikiLeaks.\n\nWhen the judge asked Manning to explain how she could admit that her actions were wrong, Manning replied, \"Your Honor, regardless of my opinion or my assessment of documents such as these, it's beyond my pay grade—it's not my authority to make these decisions about releasing confidential files.\" An audio recording of Manning's statement was released by journalist Glenn Greenwald on March 12, 2013.\n\nManning put the files on a camera digital storage card and took it home on a leave in early 2010. Manning then decided to give the files to a newspaper, first calling \"The Washington Post\". Next, \"The New York Times\" was contacted and an unanswered voice mail message was left. In January 2010, Manning called the public editor's line at Bloomberg News, but got no response. Manning then copied the files and uploaded them to WikiLeaks, through its website, using a directory the group designated as a \"cloud drop box\" server. Manning was frustrated that WikiLeaks did not publish files about 15 people who printed \"anti-Iraqi\" pamphlets. After uploading the files, Manning was engaged in more online conversations with someone from WikiLeaks, who Manning thought was a senior figure, like Julian Assange. In retrospect, Manning described the relationship as \"artificial.\"\n\nThe trial began on June 3, 2013, at Fort Meade, Maryland, before Colonel Denise Lind, chief judge, U.S. Army Trial Judiciary, 1st Judicial Circuit.\n\nOpening for the prosecution, Captain Joe Morrow accused Manning of having \"harvested\" hundreds of thousands of documents from secure networks, then making them available within hours to the US's enemies by dumping them on the Internet: \"This is a case about what happens when arrogance meets access to classified information,\" he said. For the defense, Coombs described Manning as \"young, naïve and good intentioned.\" Coombs recounted an incident in which a convoy was hit by an IED, which U.S. troops were relieved did not result in any American fatalities. Manning was reportedly disturbed by her comrades' lack of sympathy upon later learning that an Iraqi civilian had been killed in the incident. Coombs said that by releasing material she felt the public should see, Manning had hoped to make a difference. Manning additionally believed that much of the information she released was \"already basically in the public domain,\" and that it was of historical importance.\n\nOn July 2, at the trial's 14th day of sessions, prosecutors rested their case, having presented testimony from 80 witnesses and evidence showing that Manning's training repeatedly instructed her to not give classified information to unauthorized people. The government also presented evidence that Osama bin Laden asked for and received from an associate the Afghanistan battlefield reports WikiLeaks published, and that al-Qaeda leaders reveled in WikiLeaks' publication of reams of classified U.S. documents, urging members to study them before devising ways to attack the United States.\n\nOn July 10, the defense rested its case after presenting evidence from 10 witnesses. Manning did not take the stand. Attempting to undercut the most serious charge against Manning—aiding the enemy—defense lawyers called Harvard Law School professor Yochai Benkler, who testified that until WikiLeaks started publishing the material Manning leaked, even The Pentagon apparently viewed the anti-secrecy website as a legitimate journalistic enterprise. Thereafter, said Benkler, the public, the military and traditional news media perceived WikiLeaks as a group that supported terrorism.\n\nOn July 18, Judge Lind rejected a defense motion to dismiss the charge of aiding the enemy, citing Manning's extensive training as an intelligence analyst and the sheer volume of records that were leaked as reasons to allow the charge to proceed. In its rebuttal case, the prosecution entered three tweets from WikiLeaks that Manning may have viewed to show that the organization was not a legitimate journalistic enterprise. In surrebuttal, the defense entered articles into evidence depicting WikiLeaks as an important journalism outlet, a platform \"just as important as\" the Freedom of Information Act (United States).\n\nOn July 25, chief prosecutor Maj. Ashden Fein delivered the government's closing argument, portraying Manning as an \"anarchist\" who sought to \"make a splash\" by providing vast archives of secret documents to WikiLeaks. Arguing that Manning must be found guilty of aiding the enemy, Fein said, \"He was not a whistleblower. He was a traitor, a traitor who understood the value of compromised information in the hands of the enemy and took deliberate steps to ensure that they, along with the world, received it.\" Fein contended that Manning's \"wholesale and indiscriminate compromise of hundreds of thousands of classified documents\" for release by the WikiLeaks staff, whom he called \"essentially information anarchists,\" was not an ordinary journalistic disclosure but a bid for \"notoriety, although in a clandestine form.\" Fein addressed the court for nearly six hours.\n\nThe next day, defense attorney Coombs countered with his own closing argument, portraying Manning as \"a young, naïve, but good-intentioned soldier who had human life and his humanist beliefs center to his decisions, whose sole focus was, 'Maybe I just can make a difference, maybe make a change. Coombs said his client released only files she believed would cause no harm yet spark debate and prompt change, and that if Manning had not been selective, she would have leaked much more. Playing excerpts from the Baghdad helicopter attack (\"Collateral Murder\") video that Manning admitted supplying to WikiLeaks, Coombs told Judge Lind: \"When the court looks at this, the defense requests that you not disengage, that you not look at this from the eyes of 'this happened on a battlefield.' Did they all deserve to die? That is what Private Manning is thinking as he is watching this video he is seeing, and he's questioning.\"\n\nWith closing arguments concluded, Col. Lind began her deliberations. Manning chose to have her court-martial heard by the judge only instead of a jury.\n\nOn July 30, 2013, Judge Lind issued her findings regarding the charges. Manning was acquitted of aiding the enemy by knowingly giving out intelligence through indirect means, and was convicted of 19 of the 21 or 22 specified charges, including theft and six counts of espionage. The hearing on sentencing began on July 31, 2013. Manning initially faced a maximum sentence of as much as 136 years' imprisonment. This was subsequently reduced to 90 years after the defense successfully filed a motion to merge some of the 20 counts that Manning was being charged with on the grounds that they overlapped.\n\nThe judge ruled in January 2013 that Manning's sentence would be reduced by 112 days because of treatment during confinement at Quantico. The sentencing phase of the trial began on July 31. A military psychologist who had treated Manning, Capt. Michael Worsley, testified that Manning had been left isolated in the army, trying to deal with gender-identity issues in a \"hyper-masculine environment.\" On August 14 during the sentencing hearing, Manning apologized for past actions, telling the court: \"I am sorry that my actions hurt people. I'm sorry that they hurt the United States. I am sorry for the unintended consequences of my actions. When I made these decisions I believed I was going to help people, not hurt people. ... At the time of my decisions I was dealing with a lot of issues.\" On August 21, 2013, Manning was sentenced to 35 years in prison. Manning was given credit of 1,293 days (3 years and 6 months) served in pre-trial confinement, and may be eligible for parole after serving one-third of the sentence. Manning was also reduced to the lowest enlisted pay grade (E-1), forfeited all pay and allowances, and given a dishonorable discharge.\n\nOn September 3, 2013, Manning's attorney announced that he had filed on his client's behalf a Petition for Commutation of Sentence, submitted with a letter to the Secretary of the Army and, through the Department of Justice's Office of the Pardon Attorney, to President Obama, seeking a presidential pardon.\n\nOn January 17, 2017, President Obama commuted Manning's sentence to a total of 7 years confinement, starting with the initial date of arrest. As a result of the commutation Manning was released on May 17, 2017.\n\nOn May 31, 2018, the U.S. Army Court of Criminal Appeals upheld Chelsea Manning's 2013 court-martial conviction of violating the Espionage Act. The court rejected Manning's contention that the statute is too vague to provide fair notice of the criminal nature of disclosing classified documents. \"The facts of this case,\" the three-judge panel ruled, \"leave no question as to what constituted national defense information. Appellant's training and experience indicate, without any doubt, she was on notice and understood the nature of the information she was disclosing and how its disclosure could negatively affect national defense.\" The court also rejected Manning's assertion that her actions in disclosing classified information related to national security are protected by the First Amendment. Manning, the court found, \"had no First Amendment right to make the disclosures—doing so not only violated the nondisclosure agreements she signed, but also jeopardized national security.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4772406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4772406", "title": "Wrongful execution", "text": "Wrongful execution\n\nWrongful execution is a miscarriage of justice occurring when an innocent person is put to death by capital punishment. Cases of wrongful execution are cited as an argument by opponents of capital punishment, while proponents suggest that the argument of innocence concerns the credibility of the justice system as a whole and does not solely undermine the use of death penalty.\n\nA number of people are claimed to have been innocent victims of the death penalty. Newly available DNA evidence has allowed the exoneration and release of more than 20 death row inmates since 1992 in the United States, but DNA evidence is available in only a fraction of capital cases. Others have been released on the basis of weak cases against them, sometimes involving prosecutorial misconduct; resulting in acquittal at retrial, charges dropped, or innocence-based pardons. The Death Penalty Information Center (U.S.) has published a list of 10 inmates \"executed but possibly innocent\". At least 39 executions are claimed to have been carried out in the U.S. in the face of evidence of innocence or serious doubt about guilt.\n\nSince 1976 the United States has executed over 1,400 offenders: none of them have since been granted a posthumous exoneration.\n\nIn the UK, reviews prompted by the Criminal Cases Review Commission have resulted in one pardon and three exonerations for people executed between 1950 and 1953 (when the execution rate in England and Wales averaged 17 per year), with compensation being paid.\n\nColin Campbell Ross was hanged in Melbourne in 1922 for the murder of 12-year-old Alma Tirtschke the previous year in what became known as the Gun Alley Murder. The case was re-examined in the 1990s using modern techniques and Ross was eventually pardoned in 2008, by which time capital punishment in Australia had been abolished in all jurisdictions—the last execution taking place in 1967.\n\nWei Qing'an (Chinese: 魏清安, 1961–1984, 23 years old) was a Chinese citizen who was executed for the rape of Kun Liu, a woman who had disappeared. The execution was carried out on 3 May 1984 by the Intermediate People's Court. In the next month, Tian Yuxiu (田玉修) was arrested and admitted that he had committed the rape. Three years later, Wei was officially declared innocent.\n\nTeng Xingshan (Chinese: 滕兴善, ?–1989) was a Chinese citizen who was executed for supposedly having raped, robbed and murdered Shi Xiaorong (石小荣), a woman who had disappeared. An old man found a dismembered body, and incompetent police forensics claimed to have matched the body to the photo of the missing Shi Xiaorong. The execution was carried out on 28 January 1989 by the Huaihua Intermediate People's Court. In 1993, the previously missing woman returned to the village, saying she had been kidnapped and taken to Shandong. The absolute innocence of the wrongfully executed Teng was not admitted until 2005.\n\nNie Shubin (Chinese: 聂树斌, 1974–1995) was a Chinese citizen who was executed for the rape and murder of Kang Juhua (康菊花), a woman in her thirties. The execution was carried out on April 27, 1995 by the Shijiazhuang Intermediate People's Court. In 2005, ten years after the execution, Wang Shujin (Chinese: 王书金) admitted to the police that he had committed the murder.\n\nQoγsiletu or Huugjilt (Mongolian:qoγsiletu, Chinese:, 1977-1996) was an Inner Mongolian who was executed for the rape and murder of a young girl on June 10, 1996. On December 5, 2006, ten years after the execution, Zhao Zhihong (Chinese: 赵志红) wrote the \"Petition of my Death Penalty\" admitting he had committed the crime. Huugjilt was posthumously exonerated and Zhao Zhihong was sentenced to death in 2015.\n\nHarry Gleeson was executed in Ireland in April 1941 for the Murder of Moll McCarthy in County Tipperary in November 1940. The Gardai withheld crucial evidence and fabricated other evidence against Gleeson. In 2015 he was posthumously pardoned.\n\nJiang Guoqing (Jiang is the family name, Chinese: , 1975–1997) was a Republic of China (Taiwan) Air Force private who was executed by a military tribunal on August 13, 1997 for the rape and murder of a five-year-old girl. On January 28, 2011, over 13 years after the execution, Xu Rongzhou (Chinese: 許榮洲), who had a history of sexual abuse, admitted to the prosecutor that he had been responsible for the crime. In September 2011 Jiang was posthumously acquitted by a military court who found Jiang's original confession had been obtained by torture. Ma Ying-jeou, the Republic of China's president, apologised to Jiang's family.\n\n\nUniversity of Michigan law professor Samuel Gross led a team of experts in the law and in statistics that estimated the likely number of unjust convictions. The study, published in \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" determined that at least 4% of people on death row were and are likely innocent. Gross has no doubt that some innocent people have been executed.\n\nStatistics likely understate the actual problem of wrongful convictions because once an execution has occurred there is often insufficient motivation and finance to keep a case open, and it becomes unlikely at that point that the miscarriage of justice will ever be exposed. For example, in the case of Joseph Roger O'Dell III, executed in Virginia in 1997 for a rape and murder, a prosecuting attorney argued in court in 1998 that if posthumous DNA results exonerated O'Dell, \"it would be shouted from the rooftops that ... Virginia executed an innocent man.\" The state prevailed, and the evidence was destroyed.\n\nChipita Rodriguez was hanged in San Patricio County, Texas in 1863 for murdering a horse trader, and 122 years later, the Texas Legislature passed a resolution exonerating her.\n\nThomas and Meeks Griffin were executed in 1915 for the murder of a man involved in an interracial affair two years previously but were pardoned 94 years after execution. It is thought that they were arrested and charged because they were viewed as wealthy enough to hire competent legal counsel and get an acquittal.\n\nJoe Arridy (April 15, 1915 – January 6, 1939) was a mentally disabled American man executed for rape and murder and posthumously granted a pardon. Arridy was sentenced to death for the murder and rape of a 15-year-old schoolgirl from Pueblo, Colorado. He confessed to murdering the girl and assaulting her sister. Due to the sensational nature of the crime precautions were taken to keep him from being hanged by vigilante justice. His sentence was executed after multiple stays on January 6, 1939, in the Colorado gas chamber in the state penitentiary in Canon City, Colorado. Arridy was the first Colorado prisoner posthumously pardoned in January 2011 by Colorado Governor Bill Ritter, a former district attorney, after research had shown that Arridy was very likely not in Pueblo when the crime happened and had been coerced into confessing. Among other things, Arridy had an IQ of 46, which was equal to the mental age of a 6-year-old. He did not even understand that he was going to be executed, and played with a toy train that the warden, Roy Best, had given to him as a present. A man named Frank Aguilar had been executed in 1937 in the Colorado gas chamber for the same crime for which Arridy ended up also being executed. Arridy's posthumous pardon in 2011 was the first such pardon in Colorado history. A press release from the governor's office stated, \"[A]n overwhelming body of evidence indicates the 23-year-old Arridy was innocent, including false and coerced confessions, the likelihood that Arridy was not in Pueblo at the time of the killing, and an admission of guilt by someone else.\" The governor also pointed to Arridy's intellectual disabilities. The governor said, “Granting a posthumous pardon is an extraordinary remedy. But the tragic conviction of Mr. Arridy and his subsequent execution on Jan. 6, 1939, merit such relief based on the great likelihood that Mr. Arridy was, in fact, innocent of the crime for which he was executed, and his severe mental disability at the time of his trial and execution.\"\n\nGeorge Stinney, a 14-year old black boy, was electrocuted in South Carolina in 1944 for the murder of Betty June Binnicker, age 11, as well as Mary Emma Thames, age 8. The arrest occurred on March 23, 1944 in Alcolu, inside of Clarendon County, South Carolina. Apparently, the two girls rode their bikes past Stinney’s house where they asked him and his sister a certain type of flower; after this encounter, the girls went missing and were found dead in a ditch the following morning. After an hour of interrogation by the officers, a deputy stated that Stinney confessed to the murder. The confession explained that Stinney wanted to have intercourse with Betty, so he wanted to kill Mary to get Betty alone; however, both girls fought back and that is when he killed both of them. This case still remains a very controversial one due to the fact that the judicial process showed severe shortcomings. An example can be made out of this case by showing how the judicial system does not always properly orchestrate. He was the youngest person executed in the United States. More than 70 years later, a judge threw out the conviction, calling it a \"great injustice.\"\n\nCarlos DeLuna was executed in Texas in December 1989. Subsequent investigations cast strong doubt upon DeLuna's guilt for the murder of which he had been convicted. Carlos Deluna was executed in 1989 for stabbing a gas station clerk to death. His execution came about six years after the crime was committed. The trial ended up attracting local attention, but it was never suggested that an innocent man was about to be punished while the actual killer went free. Deluna was found blocks away from the crime scene with $149 in his pocket. From that point on, it went downhill for the young Carlos Deluna. A wrongful eyewitness testimony is what formed the case against him. Unfortunately, Deluna’s previous criminal record was very much used against him. The real killer, Carlos Hernandez, was a repeat violent offender who actually had a history of slashing women with his unique buck knife, not to mention he looked very similar to Carlos Deluna. Hernandez did not keep quiet about his murder, apparently he went around bragging about the killing of Lopez. In 1999, Hernandez was imprisoned for attacking his neighbor with a knife.\n\nJesse Tafero was convicted of murder and executed via electric chair in May 1990 in the state of Florida for the murders of two Florida Highway Patrol officers. The conviction of a co-defendant was overturned in 1992 after a recreation of the crime scene indicated a third person had committed the murders. Not only was Tafero wrongly accused, his electric chair malfunctioned as well – three times. As a result, Tafero’s head caught on fire. After this encounter, a debate was focused around humane methods of execution. Lethal injections became more common in the states rather than the electric chair.\n\nJohnny Garrett of Texas was executed in February 1992 for allegedly raping and murdering a nun. In March 2004 cold-case DNA testing identified Leoncio Rueda as the rapist and murderer of another elderly victim killed four months earlier. Immediately following the nun's murder, prosecutors and police were certain the two cases were committed by the same assailant. The flawed case is explored in a 2008 documentary entitled \"The Last Word\".\n\nIn 2015, the Justice Department and the FBI formally acknowledged that nearly every examiner in an FBI forensic squad overstated forensic hair matches for two decades before the year 2000. Of the 28 forensic examiners testifying to hair matches in a total of 268 trials reviewed, 26 overstated the evidence of forensic hair matches and 95% of the overstatements favored the prosecution. Defendants were sentenced to death in 32 of those 268 cases.\n\nAleksandr Kravchenko was executed in 1983 for the 1978 murder of nine year old Yelena Zakotnova in Shakhty, a coal mining town near Rostov-on-Don. Kravchenko as a teenager, had served a prison sentence for the rape and murder of a teenage girl but witnesses said he was not at the scene of Zakotnova's murder at the time. Under police pressure the witnesses altered their statements and Kravchenko was executed. Later it was found that the girl had been murdered by Andrei Chikatilo a serial killer nicknamed \"the Red Ripper\" and \"the Butcher of Rostov\" who was executed in 1994.\n\nKirk Bloodsworth was the first American to be freed from death row as a result of exoneration by DNA evidence. Kirk Bloodsworth was a Marine before he became a waterman on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. At the age of 22, he was wrongly convicted of the murder of a nine-year-old girl; she had been sexually assaulted, strangled, and beaten with a rock. An anonymous call to the police claiming that the witness had seen Bloodsworth with the girl that day, and he matched up with the description from the police sketch. Five witnesses claiming that they saw Bloodsworth with the victim, as well a statement in his testimony where he claimed that he “had done something terrible that day that would affect his relationship with his wife”, did not help his case. No physical evidence connected Bloodsworth to the crime, but he was still convicted of rape and murder which led to him receiving the death penalty.\n\nRay Krone is the 100th American to have been sentenced to death and then later exonerated. Ray Krone was convicted of the murder of Kim Ancona, thirty-six year old victim in Phoenix, Arizona. Ancona had been found nude, fatally stabbed. The physical evidence that the police had to rely on was bite marks on Ancona’s breasts and neck. After Ancona had told a friend that Ray Krone, a regular customer, was going to help her close the bar the previous night, the police brought him in to make a Styrofoam impression of his teeth. After comparing the teeth marks, Krone was arrested for the murder, kidnapping, and sexual assault of Kim Ancona on December 31, 1991. At the trial in 1992, Krone pled innocence, but the teeth mark comparison caused the jury to found him guilty and he was sentenced to death as well as a consecutive twenty-one year term of imprisonment. Krone’s family also believed that he was innocent, which led them to spend over $300,000 in order to fight for his freedom.\n\nIn the UK, reviews prompted by the Criminal Cases Review Commission have resulted in one pardon and three exonerations for people that were executed between 1950 and 1953 (when the execution rate in England and Wales averaged 17 per year), with compensation being paid. Timothy Evans was granted a posthumous free pardon in 1966. Mahmood Hussein Mattan was convicted in 1952 and was the last person to be hanged in Cardiff, Wales, but had his conviction quashed in 1998. George Kelly was hanged at Liverpool in 1950, but had his conviction quashed by the Court of Appeal in June 2003. Derek Bentley had his conviction quashed in 1998 with the appeal trial judge, Lord Bingham, noting that the original trial judge, Lord Goddard, had denied the defendant \"the fair trial which is the birthright of every British citizen.\"\n\nColin Campbell Ross (1892–1922) was an Australian wine-bar owner executed for the murder of a child which became known as The Gun Alley Murder, despite there being evidence that he was innocent. Following his execution, efforts were made to clear his name, and in the 1990s old evidence was re-examined with modern forensic techniques which supported the view that Ross was innocent. In 2006 an appeal for mercy was made to Victoria's Chief Justice and on 27 May 2008 the Victorian government pardoned Ross in what is believed to be an Australian legal first.\n\nThere has been much debate about the justification of imposing capital punishment on individuals who have been diagnosed with mental retardation. Some have argued that the execution of people with mental retardation constitutes cruel and unusual punishment as it pertains to the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. While the U.S. Supreme Court interpreted cruel and unusual punishment to include those that fail to take into account the defendant's degree of criminal culpability, it did not determine that executing the mentally retarded constitutes cruel and unusual punishment until 2002.\n\nThis issue was first addressed in the case of \"Penry v. Lynaugh\", in which Johnny Paul Penry had filed a \"habeas corpus\" petition in federal district court that claimed his death sentence should be vacated because it violated his Eighth Amendment rights. His reasoning was that he suffered from mental retardation, and numerous psychologists had confirmed this to be factual, indicating that his IQ ranged from 50 to 63 and that he possessed the mental abilities of a six-and-a-half-year-old. Penry's petition was denied by the district court, whose decision was subsequently affirmed by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Penry would later appeal to the Supreme Court, who ultimately ruled in a five-to-four decision that the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution did not categorically prohibit the execution of persons with mental retardation. Following the 1989 \"Penry\" ruling, sixteen states as well as the federal government passed legislation that banned the execution of offenders with mental retardation.\n\n\"Penry\" was overruled in 2002 by \"Atkins v. Virginia\", which held that the Eighth Amendment's ban on cruel and unusual punishment precluded the execution of the mentally handicapped, but the Supreme Court left the definition of mentally handicapped as something to be determined by the states.\n\nIn 2014, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Hall v. Florida\" that states cannot rely solely on an IQ test in determining whether a borderline mentally handicapped person can be executed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9096372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9096372", "title": "Zoo", "text": "Zoo\n\nA zoo (short for zoological garden or zoological park and also called an animal park or menagerie) is a facility in which all animals are housed within enclosures, displayed to the public, and in which they may also breed.\n\nThe term \"zoological garden\" refers to zoology, the study of animals, a term deriving from the Greek \"zōon\" (ζῷον, 'animal') and \"lógos\" (λóγος, 'study'). The abbreviation \"zoo\" was first used of the London Zoological Gardens, which was opened for scientific study in 1828 and to the public in 1857. The number of major animal collections open to the public around the world now exceeds 1,000 and approximately 80 percent of them are in cities. In the United States alone, zoos are visited by over 180 million people annually.\n\nThe London Zoo, which opened in 1826, was initially known as the \"Gardens and Menagerie of the Zoological Society of London\", and it described itself as a menagerie or \"zoological forest\". The abbreviation \"zoo\" first appeared in print in the United Kingdom around 1847, when it was used for the Clifton Zoo, but it was not until some 20 years later that the shortened form became popular in the song \"Walking in the Zoo\" by music-hall artist Alfred Vance. The term \"zoological park\" was used for more expansive facilities in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Washington, D.C., and the Bronx in New York, which opened in 1847, 1891 and 1899 respectively.\n\nRelatively new terms for zoos coined in the late 20th century are \"conservation park\" or \"biopark\". Adopting a new name is a strategy used by some zoo professionals to distance their institutions from the stereotypical and nowadays criticized zoo concept of the 19th century. The term \"biopark\" was first coined and developed by the National Zoo in Washington D.C. in the late 1980s. In 1993, the New York Zoological Society changed its name to the Wildlife Conservation Society and rebranded the zoos under its jurisdiction as \"wildlife conservation parks\".\n\nThe predecessor of the zoological garden is the menagerie, which has a long history from the ancient world to modern times. The oldest known zoological collection was revealed during excavations at Hierakonpolis, Egypt in 2009, of a ca. 3500 BCE menagerie. The exotic animals included hippopotami, hartebeest, elephants, baboons and wildcats. King Ashur-bel-kala of the Middle Assyrian Empire created zoological and botanical gardens in the 11th century BCE. In the 2nd century BCE, the Chinese Empress Tanki had a \"house of deer\" built, and King Wen of Zhou kept a zoo called \"Ling-Yu,\" or the Garden of Intelligence. Other well-known collectors of animals included King Solomon of the Kingdom of Israel and Judah, queen Semiramis and King Ashurbanipal of Assyria, and King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylonia. By the 4th century BCE, zoos existed in most of the Greek city states; Alexander the Great is known to have sent animals that he found on his military expeditions back to Greece. The Roman emperors kept private collections of animals for study or for use in the arena, the latter faring notoriously poorly. The 19th-century historian W. E. H. Lecky wrote of the Roman games, first held in 366 BCE:\n\nCharlemagne had an elephant named Abul-Abbas that was given to him by the Abbasid Caliph. Henry I of England kept a collection of animals at his palace in Woodstockwhich reportedly included lions, leopards, and camels. The most prominent collection in medieval England was in the Tower of London, created as early as 1204 by King John I.\n\nHenry III received a wedding gift in 1235 of three leopards from Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor, and in 1264, the animals were moved to the Bulwark, renamed the Lion Tower, near the main western entrance of the Tower. It was opened to the public during the reign of Elizabeth I in the 16th century. During the 18th century, the price of admission was three half-pence, or the supply of a cat or dog for feeding to the lions. The animals were moved to the London Zoo when it opened.\n\nAztec emperor Moctezuma had in his capital city of Tenochtitlan a \"house of animals\" with a large collection of birds, mammals and reptiles in a garden tended by more than 600 employees. The garden was described by several Spanish conquerors, including Hernán Cortés in 1520. After the Aztec revolt against the Spanish rule, and during the subsequent battle for the city, Cortés reluctantly ordered the zoo to be destroyed.\n\nThe oldest zoo in the world still in existence is the Tiergarten Schönbrunn in Vienna, Austria. It was constructed by Adrian van Stekhoven in 1752 at the order of the Holy Roman Emperor Francis I, husband of Maria Theresa of Austria, to serve as an imperial menagerie as part of Schönbrunn Palace. The menagerie was initially reserved for the viewing pleasure of the imperial family and the court, but was made accessible to the public in 1765.\n\nIn 1775, a zoo was founded in Madrid, and in 1795, the zoo inside the \"Jardin des Plantes\" in Paris was founded by Jacques-Henri Bernardin, with animals from the royal menagerie at Versailles, primarily for scientific research and education. The Kazan Zoo, the first zoo in Russia was founded in 1806 by the Professor of Kazan State University Karl Fuchs.\n\nUntil the early 19th century, the function of the zoo was often to symbolize royal power, like King Louis XIV's menagerie at Versailles. The modern zoo that emerged in the early 19th century at Halifax, London, Paris and Dublin, was focused on providing educational exhibits to the public for entertainment and inspiration.\n\nA growing fascination for natural history and zoology, coupled with the tremendous expansion in the urbanization of London, led to a heightened demand for a greater variety of public forms of entertainment to be made available. The need for public entertainment, as well as the requirements of scholarly research, came together in the founding of the first modern zoos.\nThe Zoological Society of London was founded in 1826 by Stamford Raffles and established the London Zoo in Regent's Park two years later in 1828. At its founding, it was the world's first scientific zoo. Originally intended to be used as a collection for scientific study, it was eventually opened to the public in 1847. The Zoo was located in Regent's Park - then undergoing development at the hands of the architect John Nash. What set the London zoo apart from its predecessors was its focus on society at large. The zoo was established in the middle of a city for the public, and its layout was designed to cater for the large London population. The London zoo was widely copied as the archetype of the public city zoo. In 1853, the Zoo opened the world's first public aquarium.\n\nDowns' Zoological Gardens created by Andrew Downs and opened to the Nova Scotia public in 1847. It was originally intended to be used as a collection for scientific study. By the early 1860s, the zoo grounds covered 40 hectares with many fine flowers & ornamental trees, picnic areas, statues, walking paths, The Glass House (which contained a greenhouse with an aviary, aquarium, & museum of stuffed animals & birds), a pond, a bridge over a waterfall, an artificial lake with a fountain, a wood-ornamented greenhouse, a forest area, and enclosures & buildings.\n\nDublin Zoo was opened in 1831 by members of the medical profession interested in studying animals while they were alive and more particularly getting hold of them when they were dead. The first zoological garden in Australia was Melbourne Zoo in 1860. In the same year, Central Park Zoo, the first public zoo in the United States, opened in New York, although in 1859, the Philadelphia Zoological Society had made an effort to establish a zoo, but delayed opening it until 1874 because of the American Civil War.\n\nIn 1907, the German entrepreneur Carl Hagenbeck founded the Tierpark Hagenbeck in Stellingen, now a quarter of Hamburg. His zoo was a radical departure from the layout of the zoo that had been established in 1828. It was the first zoo to use open enclosures surrounded by moats, rather than barred cages, to better approximate animals' natural environments. He also set up mixed-species exhibits and based the layout on the different organizing principle of geography, as opposed to taxonomy.\n\nWhen ecology emerged as a matter of public interest in the 1970s, a few zoos began to consider making conservation their central role, with Gerald Durrell of the Jersey Zoo, George Rabb of Brookfield Zoo, and William Conway of the Bronx Zoo (Wildlife Conservation Society) leading the discussion. From then on, zoo professionals became increasingly aware of the need to engage themselves in conservation programs, and the American Zoo Association soon said that conservation was its highest priority. In order to stress conservation issues, many large zoos stopped the practice of having animals perform tricks for visitors. The Detroit Zoo, for example, stopped its elephant show in 1969, and its chimpanzee show in 1983, acknowledging that the trainers had probably abused the animals to get them to perform.\n\nWhipsnade Park in Bedfordshire, England, was opened in 1931 as the first safari park. It allowed visitors to drive through the enclosures and come into close proximity with the animals.\nThe Wrocław Zoo (), the oldest zoo in Poland opened in 1865 and was home to about 10,500 animals representing about 1,132 species (in terms of the number of animal species it is the third largest in the world). In 2014 the Wrocław Zoo opened the Africarium, the only themed oceanarium devoted solely to exhibiting the fauna of Africa, comprehensively presenting selected ecosystems from the continent of Africa. Housing over 10 thousand animals, the facility's breadth extends from housing insects such cockroaches to the large mammals like the elephants on an area of over 33 hectares . \n\nMass destruction of wildlife habitat has yet to cease all over the world and many species such as elephants, big cats, penguins, tropical birds, primates, rhinos, exotic reptiles, and many others are in danger of dying out. Many of today's zoos hope to stop or slow the decline of many endangered species and see their primary purpose as breeding endangered species in captivity and reintroducing them into the wild. Modern zoos also aim to help teach visitors the importance on animal conservation, often through letting visitors witness the animals firsthand. Some critics and the majority of animal rights activists say that zoos, no matter what their intentions are, or how noble they are, are immoral and serve as nothing but to fulfill human leisure at the expense of the animals (which is an opinion that has spread over the years). However, zoo advocates argue that their efforts make a difference in wildlife conservation and education.\n\nHuman beings were sometimes displayed in cages along with non-human animals, to illustrate the differences between people of European and non-European origin. In September 1906, William Hornaday, director of the Bronx Zoo in New York—with the agreement of Madison Grant, head of the New York Zoological Society—had Ota Benga, a Congolese pygmy, displayed in a cage with the chimpanzees, then with an orangutan named Dohong, and a parrot. The exhibit was intended as an example of the \"missing link\" between the orangutan and white man. It triggered protests from the city's clergymen, but the public reportedly flocked to see it.\n\nHuman beings were also displayed in cages during the 1931 Paris Colonial Exposition, and as late as 1958 in a \"Congolese village\" display at Expo '58 in Brussels.\n\nZoo animals live in enclosures that often attempt to replicate their natural habitats or behavioral patterns, for the benefit of both the animals and visitors. Nocturnal animals are often housed in buildings with a reversed light-dark cycle, i.e. only dim white or red lights are on during the day so the animals are active during visitor hours, and brighter lights on at night when the animals sleep. Special climate conditions may be created for animals living in extreme environments, such as penguins. Special enclosures for birds, mammals, insects, reptiles, fish, and other aquatic life forms have also been developed. Some zoos have walk-through exhibits where visitors enter enclosures of non-aggressive species, such as lemurs, marmosets, birds, lizards, and turtles. Visitors are asked to keep to paths and avoid showing or eating foods that the animals might snatch.\n\nSome zoos keep animals in larger, outdoor enclosures, confining them with moats and fences, rather than in cages. Safari parks, also known as zoo parks and lion farms, allow visitors to drive through them and come in close proximity to the animals. Sometimes, visitors are able to feed animals through the car windows. The first safari park was Whipsnade Park in Bedfordshire, England, opened by the Zoological Society of London in 1931 which today (2014) covers 600 acres (2.4 km²). Since the early 1970s, an 1,800 acre (7 km²) park in the San Pasqual Valley near San Diego has featured the San Diego Zoo Safari Park, run by the Zoological Society of San Diego. One of two state-supported zoo parks in North Carolina is the North Carolina Zoo in Asheboro. The Werribee Open Range Zoo in Melbourne, Australia, displays animals living in an artificial savannah.\n\nThe first public aquarium was opened at the London Zoo in 1853. This was followed by the opening of public aquaria in continental Europe (e.g. Paris in 1859, Hamburg in 1864, Berlin in 1869, and Brighton in 1872) and the United States (e.g. Boston in 1859, Washington in 1873, San Francisco Woodward's Garden in 1873, and the New York Aquarium at Battery Park in 1896).\n\nRoadside zoos are found throughout North America, particularly in remote locations. They are often small, for-profit zoos, often intended to attract visitors to some other facility, such as a gas station. The animals may be trained to perform tricks, and visitors are able to get closer to them than in larger zoos. Since they are sometimes less regulated, roadside zoos are often subject to accusations of neglect and cruelty.\n\nIn June 2014 the Animal Legal Defense Fund filed a lawsuit against the Iowa-based roadside Cricket Hollow Zoo for violating the Endangered Species Act by failing to provide proper care for its animals. Since filing the lawsuit, ALDF has obtained records from investigations conducted by the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services; these records show that the zoo is also violating the Animal Welfare Act.\n\nA petting zoo, also called petting farms or children's zoos, features a combination of domestic animals and wild species that are docile enough to touch and feed. To ensure the animals' health, the food is supplied by the zoo, either from vending machines or a kiosk nearby.\n\nAn animal theme park is a combination of an amusement park and a zoo, mainly for entertaining and commercial purposes. Marine mammal parks such as Sea World and Marineland are more elaborate dolphinariums keeping whales, and containing additional entertainment attractions. Another kind of animal theme park contains more entertainment and amusement elements than the classical zoo, such as a stage shows, roller coasters, and mythical creatures. Some examples are Busch Gardens Tampa Bay in Tampa, Florida, Disney's Animal Kingdom and Gatorland in Orlando, Florida, Flamingo Land in North Yorkshire, England, and Six Flags Discovery Kingdom in Vallejo, California.\n\nBy the year 2000 most animals being displayed in zoos were the offspring of other zoo animals. This trend, however was and still is somewhat species-specific. When animals are transferred between zoos, they usually spend time in quarantine, and are given time to acclimatize to their new enclosures which are often designed to mimic their natural environment. For example, some species of penguins may require refrigerated enclosures. Guidelines on necessary care for such animals is published in the \"International Zoo Yearbook\".\n\nThe position of most modern zoos in Australasia, Asia, Europe, and North America, particularly those with scientific societies, is that they display wild animals primarily for the conservation of endangered species, as well as for research purposes and education, and secondarily for the entertainment of visitors, an argument disputed by critics. The Zoological Society of London states in its charter that its aim is \"the advancement of Zoology and Animal Physiology and the introduction of new and curious subjects of the Animal Kingdom.\" It maintains two research institutes, the Nuffield Institute of Comparative Medicine and the Wellcome Institute of Comparative Physiology. In the U.S., the Penrose Research Laboratory of the Philadelphia Zoo focuses on the study of comparative pathology. The World Association of Zoos and Aquariums produced its first conservation strategy in 1993, and in November 2004, it adopted a new strategy that sets out the aims and mission of zoological gardens of the 21st century.\n\nThe breeding of endangered species is coordinated by cooperative breeding programmes containing international studbooks and coordinators, who evaluate the roles of individual animals and institutions from a global or regional perspective, and there are regional programmes all over the world for the conservation of endangered species.\n\nBesides conservation of captive species, large zoos may form a suitable environment for wild native animals such as herons to live in or visit. A colony of black-crowned night herons has regularly summered at the National Zoo in Washington, D.C. for more than a century. Some zoos may provide information to visitors on wild animals visiting or living in the zoo, or encourage them by directing them to specific feeding or breeding platforms.\n\nIn modern, well-regulated zoos, breeding is controlled to maintain a self-sustaining, global captive population. This is not the case in some less well-regulated zoos, often based in poorer regions. Overall \"stock turnover\" of animals during a year in a select group of poor zoos was reported as 20%-25% with 75% of wild caught apes dying in captivity within the first 20 months. The authors of the report stated that before successful breeding programs, the high mortality rate was the reason for the \"massive scale of importations.\"\n\nOne 2-year study indicated that of 19,361 mammals that left accredited zoos in the U.S. between 1992 and 1998, 7,420 (38%) went to dealers, auctions, hunting ranches, unaccredited zoos and individuals, and game farms.\n\nThe welfare of zoo animals varies widely. Many zoos work to improve their animal enclosures and make it fit the animals' needs, although constraints such as size and expense make it difficult to create ideal captive environments for many species.\n\nA study examining data collected over four decades found that polar bears, lions, tigers and cheetahs show evidence of stress in captivity. Zoos can be internment camps for animals, but also a place of refuge. A zoo can be considered an internment camp due to the insufficient enclosures that the animals have to live in. When an elephant is placed in a pen that is flat, has no tree, no other elephants and only a few plastic toys to play with; it can lead to boredom and foot problems (Lemonic, McDowel, and Bjerklie 50). Also, animals can have a shorter life span when they are in these types of enclosures. Causes can be human diseases, materials in the cages, and possible escape attempts (Bendow 382). However, when zoos take time to think about the animal's welfare, zoos can become a place of refuge. There are animals that are injured in the wild and are unable to survive on their own, but in the zoos they can live out the rest of their lives healthy and happy (McGaffin). In recent years, some zoos have chosen to stop showing their larger animals because they are simply unable to provide an adequate enclosure for them (Lemonic, McDowell, and Bjerklie 50).\n\nSome critics and many animal rights activists argue that zoo animals are treated as voyeuristic objects, rather than living creatures, and often suffer due to the transition from being free and wild to captivity. In the last 2 decades, European and North-American zoos, strongly depend on breeding within zoos, while decreasing the number of wild caught animals.\n\nMany modern zoos attempt to improve animal welfare by providing more space and behavioural enrichments. This often involves housing the animals in naturalistic enclosures that allow the animals to express some of their natural behaviours, such as roaming and foraging. However, many animals remain in barren concrete enclosures or other minimally enriched cages.\n\nAnimals which naturally range over many km each day, or make seasonal migrations, are unable to perform these behaviors in zoo enclosures. For example, elephants usually travel approximately each day.\n\nAnimals in zoos often exhibit behaviors that are abnormal in their frequency, intensity, or would not normally be part of their behavioural repertoire. These are usually indicative of stress. For example, elephants sometimes perform head-bobbing, bears sometimes pace repeatedly around the limits of their enclosure, wild cats sometimes groom themselves obsessively, and birds pluck out their own feathers. Some critics of zoos claim that the animals are always under physical and mental stress, regardless of the quality of care towards the animals. Elephants have been recorded displaying stereotypical behaviours in the form of swaying back and forth, trunk swaying or route tracing. This has been observed in 54% of individuals in UK zoos.\n\nElephants in Japanese zoos have shorter lifespans than their wild counterparts at only 17 years, although other studies suggest that zoo elephants live as long as those in the wild. On the other hand, many other animals, such as reptiles, can live much longer than they would in the wild.\n\nClimatic conditions can make it difficult to keep some animals in zoos in some locations. For example, Alaska Zoo had an elephant named Maggie. She was housed in a small, indoor enclosure because the outdoor temperature was too low.\n\nEspecially in large animals, a limited number of spaces are available in zoos. As a consequence, various management tools are used to preserve the space for the most \"valuable\" individuals and reduce the risk of inbreeding. Management of animal populations is typically through international organizations such as AZA and EAZA. Zoos have several different ways of managing the animal populations, such as moves between zoos, contraception, sale of excess animals and euthanization (culling).\n\nContraception can be effective, but may also have health repercussions and can be difficult (or even impossible) to reverse in some animals. Additionally, some species may lose their reproductive capability entirely if prevented from breeding for a period (whether through contraceptives or isolation), but further study is needed on the subject. Sale of surplus animals from zoos was once common and in some cases animals have ended up in substandard facilities. In recent decades the practice of selling animals from certified zoos has declined. A large number of animals are culled each year in zoos, but this is controversial. A highly publicized culling as part of population management was that of a healthy giraffe at Copenhagen Zoo in 2014. The zoo argued that its genes already were well-represented in captivity, making the giraffe unsuitable for future breeding. There were offers to adopt it and an online petition to save it had many thousand signatories, but the culling proceeded. Although zoos in some countries have been open about culling, the controversy of the subject and pressure from the public has resulted in others being closed. This stands in contrast to most zoos publicly announcing animal births. Furthermore, while many zoos are willing to cull smaller and/or low-profile animals, fewer are willing to do it with larger high-profile species.\n\nIn many countries, feeding live vertebrates to zoo animals is illegal, except in exceptional circumstances. For example, some snakes refuse to eat dead prey. However, in the Badaltearing Safari Park in China, visitors can throw live goats into the lion enclosure and watch them being eaten, or can purchase live chickens tied to bamboo rods for the equivalent of 2 dollars/euros to dangle into lion pens. Visitors can drive through the lion compound in buses with specially designed chutes which they can use to push live chickens into the enclosure. In the Xiongsen Bear and Tiger Mountain Village near Guilin in south-east China, live cows and pigs are thrown to tigers to amuse visitors.\n\nIn Qingdao zoo (Eastern China), visitors can engage in \"tortoise baiting\", where tortoises are kept inside small rooms with elastic bands around their necks so that they are unable to retract their heads. Visitors are allowed to throw coins at them. The marketing claim is that if a person hits one of the tortoises on the head and makes a wish, it will be fulfilled.\n\nIn the United States, any public animal exhibit must be licensed and inspected by the Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Depending on the animals they exhibit, the activities of zoos are regulated by laws including the Endangered Species Act, the Animal Welfare Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and others. Additionally, zoos in North America may choose to pursue accreditation by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA). To achieve accreditation, a zoo must pass an application and inspection process and meet or exceed the AZA's standards for animal health and welfare, fundraising, zoo staffing, and involvement in global conservation efforts. Inspection is performed by three experts (typically one veterinarian, one expert in animal care, and one expert in zoo management and operations) and then reviewed by a panel of twelve experts before accreditation is awarded. This accreditation process is repeated once every five years. The AZA estimates that there are approximately 2,400 animal exhibits operating under USDA license as of February 2007; fewer than 10% are accredited.\n\nIn April 1999, the European Union introduced a directive to strengthen the conservation role of zoos, making it a statutory requirement that they participate in conservation and education, and requiring all member states to set up systems for their licensing and inspection. Zoos are regulated in the UK by the Zoo Licensing Act of 1981, which came into effect in 1984. A zoo is defined as any \"establishment where wild animals are kept for exhibition ... to which members of the public have access, with or without charge for admission, seven or more days in any period of twelve consecutive months\", excluding circuses and pet shops. The Act requires that all zoos be inspected and licensed, and that animals kept in enclosures are provided with a suitable environment in which they can express most normal behavior.\n\n"}
