{"id": "8497553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8497553", "title": "1984 Kokkilai massacre (LTTE)", "text": "1984 Kokkilai massacre (LTTE)\n\nThe Kokkilai massacre was carried out by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam.\n\nThe Kokkilai village massacre is an incident on December 1, 1984, in which LTTE cadres massacred 11 Sinhalese civilians. This attack occurred on the day after the Kent and Dollar Farm massacres. Most of the victims were Sinhalese fishermen, were shot to death by LTTE cadres.\n\n"}
{"id": "15515781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15515781", "title": "2005 Summer Deaflympics", "text": "2005 Summer Deaflympics\n\nThe 2005 Summer Deaflympics, officially known as the 20th Summer Deaflympics, is an international multi-sport event that was celebrated from 5 January to 16 January 2005 in Melbourne, Australia.\n\nA bid for the games was held on 9 March 1999 in Davos, Switzerland.\n\n\nThe various sports offered at the 2009 Summer Deaflympics were held in 17 disciplines, including 11 individual sports and 6 team sports:\n\n"}
{"id": "46812604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46812604", "title": "2015 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final", "text": "2015 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final\n\nThe 2015 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final was the eighty-fourth All-Ireland Final and the deciding match of the 2015 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship, an inter-county camogie tournament for the top teams in Ireland. It took take place on Sunday 13 September in Croke Park.\n\nThe match was shown live on \"RTÉ Two\" with commentary by Marty Morrissey. \n\nCork won the title after a 1-13 to 0-9 victory against Galway. \n"}
{"id": "48412059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48412059", "title": "2021 Winter Universiade", "text": "2021 Winter Universiade\n\nThe 2021 Winter Universiade, the XXX Winter Universiade, is scheduled for 2021 in Lucerne, Switzerland.\n\nOn 1 September 2014, FISU launched of the bidding process for the 2021 Winter and Summer Universiades. In February 2015 at the 2015 Winter Universiade FISU has been informed about the intention of Belarus and Poland to jointly bid for the 2021 Winter Universiade. On 24 August 2015, Switzerland informed about its bid for the 2021 Winter Universiade.\n\nOn 5 March 2016 Winter Universiade 2021 was awarded to Lucerne.\n\n"}
{"id": "40620147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40620147", "title": "Assayad", "text": "Assayad\n\nAssayad (meaning \"Hunter\" in English) is a weekly Arabic news magazine published in Lebanon. It is the first pan-Arab magazine in the country. Its headquarters is in Beirut.\n\n\"Assayad\" was launched by Dar Assayad publishing house led by Said Freiha on 22 November 1943. Freiha was an advocate of Gamal Abdel Nasser, Egyptian president. The publishing house also owns other publications including daily \"Al Anwar\".\n\nThe magazine is based in Beirut and has offices in various cities including Riyadh, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Cairo, Damascus, Amman, London, and Paris.\n\nMany prominent journalists worked for the magazine: Mustafa Ameen, Nizar Kabbani, Selim El Laouzi, Amin Malouf, Melhem Karam, Said Akl, Nabil Khoury, Hisham Abu Zahr, and Talal Salman. Lebanese caricaturist Pierre Sadek also work in the magazine. \n\nFrom 1967 to 1979, its editor-in-chief was Palestinian journalist and writer Ghassan Kanafani. As of 2012, the editorial team of the magazine included Raouf Chahour, Rafik Khoury, George Trad and Lima Nabil.\n\nThe magazine provides news about politics, economy, social affairs in the Arab and international context. In addition, it covers arts, entertainment, and life style topics. The magazine also publishes interviews one of which was with Leila Ben Ali, former first lady of Tunisia. \n\nThe 2009 circulation of \"Assayad\" was 76,192 copies.\n\nList of magazines in Lebanon\n\n"}
{"id": "33396125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33396125", "title": "Australian Hillclimb Championship", "text": "Australian Hillclimb Championship\n\nThe Australian Hillclimb Championship is a CAMS sanctioned motor sport competition which determines Australia's annual hillclimbing champion. The championship has traditionally been awarded to the driver setting fastest time at a single meeting however the 1958 title was awarded based on the combined results of two meetings and a multi round pointscore series was employed from 1972 to 1975.\n\nThe championship has been sanctioned by the Confederation of Australian Motor Sport since 1954. Prior to this it was sanctioned by the Australian Automobile Association, with two events having national championship status in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "24125782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24125782", "title": "Background of the Spanish Civil War", "text": "Background of the Spanish Civil War\n\nThe background of the Spanish Civil War dates back to the end of the 19th century, when the owners of large estates, called \"latifundios\", held most of the power in a land-based oligarchy. The landowners' power was unsuccessfully challenged by the industrial and merchant sectors. In 1868 popular uprisings led to the overthrow of Queen Isabella II of the House of Bourbon. In 1873 Isabella's replacement, King Amadeo I of the House of Savoy, abdicated due to increasing political pressure, and the short-lived First Spanish Republic was proclaimed. After the restoration of the Bourbons in December 1874, Carlists and anarchists emerged in opposition to the monarchy. Alejandro Lerroux helped bring republicanism to the fore in Catalonia, where poverty was particularly acute. Growing resentment of conscription and of the military culminated in the Tragic Week in Barcelona in 1909. After the First World War, the working class, the industrial class, and the military united in hopes of removing the corrupt central government, but were unsuccessful. Fears of communism grew. A military coup brought Miguel Primo de Rivera to power in 1923, and he ran Spain as a military dictatorship. Support for his regime gradually faded, and he resigned in January 1930. There was little support for the monarchy in the major cities, and King Alfonso XIII abdicated; the Second Spanish Republic was formed, whose power would remain until the culmination of the Spanish Civil War. Monarchists would continue to oppose the Republic.\n\nThe revolutionary committee headed by Niceto Alcalá-Zamora became the provisional government, with Zamora as the President and Head of State. The Republic had broad support from all segments of society; elections in June 1931 returned a large majority of Republicans and Socialists. With the onset of the Great Depression, the government attempted to assist rural Spain by instituting an eight-hour day and giving tenure to farm workers. Land reform and working conditions remained important issues throughout the lifetime of the Republic. Fascism remained a reactive threat, helped by controversial reforms to the military. In December a new reformist, liberal, and democratic constitution was declared. The constitution secularised the government, and this, coupled with their slowness to respond to a wave of anti-clerical violence prompted committed Catholics to become disillusioned with the incumbent coalition government. In October 1931 Manuel Azaña became Prime Minister of a minority government. The Right won the elections of 1933 following an unsuccessful uprising by General José Sanjurjo in August 1932, who would later lead the coup that started the civil war.\n\nEvents in the period following November 1933, called the \"black two years\", seemed to make a civil war more likely. Alejandro Lerroux of the Radical Republican Party (RRP) formed a government with the support of CEDA and rolled back all major changes made under the previous administration, he also granted amnesty to General José Sanjurjo, who had attempted an unsuccessful coup in 1932. Some monarchists moved to the Fascist Falange Española to help achieve their aims. In response,the socialist party (PSOE) became more extreme, setting up a revolutionary committee and training the socialist youth in secret. Open violence occurred in the streets of Spanish cities and militancy continued to increase right up until the start of the civil war, reflecting a movement towards radical upheaval rather than peaceful democratic means as a solution to Spain's problems. In the last months of 1934, two government collapses brought members of the Spanish Confederation of the Autonomous Right (CEDA) into the government, making it more right-wing. Farm workers' wages were halved, and the military was purged of republican members and reformed. A Popular Front alliance was organised, which won the 1936 elections. Azaña led a weak minority government, but soon replaced Zamora as president in April. Prime Minister Casares failed to heed warnings of a military conspiracy involving several generals, who decided that the government had to be replaced if the dissolution of Spain was to be prevented. They organised a military coup in July, which started the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe 19th century was a turbulent time for Spain. Those in favour of reforming Spain's government vied for political power with conservatives, who tried to prevent reforms from taking place. Some liberals, in a tradition that had started with the Spanish Constitution of 1812, sought to limit the power of the monarchy of Spain and to establish a liberal state. The reforms of 1812 did not last after King Ferdinand VII dissolved the Constitution and ended a short-lived liberal government with French royalist military assistance. Twelve successful coups were carried out between 1814 and 1874. There were several attempts to realign the political system to match social reality. Until the 1850s, the economy of Spain was primarily based on agriculture. There was little development of a bourgeois industrial or commercial class. The land-based oligarchy remained powerful; a small number of people held large estates (called \"latifundia\") as well as all the important government positions. The landowners' power was challenged by the industrial and merchant sectors, largely unsuccessfully.\nIn 1868 popular uprisings led to the overthrow of Queen Isabella II of the House of Bourbon. Two distinct factors led to the uprisings: a series of urban riots, and a liberal movement within the middle classes and the military (led by General Joan Prim), who were concerned about the ultra-conservatism of the monarchy. In 1873 Isabella's replacement, King Amadeo I of the House of Savoy, abdicated due to increasing political pressure, and the First Spanish Republic was proclaimed. However, the intellectuals behind the Republic were powerless to prevent a descent into chaos. Uprisings were crushed by the military. The old monarchy returned with the restoration of the Bourbons in December 1874, as reform was deemed less important than peace and stability. Despite the introduction of universal male suffrage in 1890, elections were controlled by local political bosses (\"caciques\").\n\nThe most traditionalist sectors of the political sphere systematically tried to prevent liberal reforms and to sustain the patrilineal monarchy. The Carlists – supporters of Infante Carlos and his descendants – fought to promote Spanish tradition and Catholicism against the liberalism of successive Spanish governments. The Carlists attempted to restore the historic liberties and broad regional autonomy granted to the Basque Country and Catalonia by their \"fueros\" (regional charters). At times they allied with nationalists (separate from the National Faction during the civil war itself), including during the Carlist Wars.\n\nPeriodically, anarchism became popular among the working class, and was far stronger in Spain than anywhere else in Europe at the time. Anarchists were easily defeated in clashes with government forces.\n\nIn 1897 an Italian anarchist assassinated Prime Minister Antonio Cánovas del Castillo, motivated by a growing number of arrests and the use of torture by the government. The loss of Cuba, Spain's last valuable colony, in the Spanish–American War of 1898 hit exports from Catalonia hardest; there were acts of terrorism and actions by \"agents provocateurs\" in Barcelona. In the first two decades of the 20th century, the industrial working class grew in number. There was a growing discontent in the Basque country and Catalonia, where much of Spain's industry was based. They believed that the government favoured agrarianism and therefore failed to represent their interests. The average illiteracy rate was 64%, with considerable regional variation. Poverty in some areas was great and mass emigration to the New World occurred in the first decade of the century.\n\nSpain's socialist party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party (, PSOE) and its associated trade union, the \"Unión General de Trabajadores\" (UGT), gained support. The UGT grew from 8,000 members in 1908 to 200,000 in 1920. Branch offices (\"Casas del pueblo\") of the unions were established in major cities. The UGT was constantly fearful of losing ground to the anarchists. It was respected for its discipline during strikes. However, it was centrist and anti-Catalan, with only 10,000 members in Barcelona as late as 1936. The PSOE and the UGT were based on a simple form of Marxism, one that assumed an inevitable revolution, and were isolationist in character. When the UGT moved their headquarters from Barcelona to Madrid in 1899, many industrial workers in Catalonia were no longer able to access it. Some elements of the PSOE recognised the need for cooperation with republican parties.\n\nIn 1912 the Reformist Party was founded, which attracted intellectuals. Figures like its leader, Alejandro Lerroux, helped attract wide support from the working class. His advocacy of anti-clericalism made him a successful demagogue in Barcelona. He argued that the Catholic Church was inseparable from the system of oppression the people were under. It was around this time that republicanism came to the fore.\n\nThe military was keen to avoid the break-up of the state and was increasingly inward-looking following the loss of Cuba. Regional nationalism, perceived as separatism, was frowned upon. In 1905 the army attacked the headquarters of two satirical magazines in Catalonia believed to be undermining the government. To appease the military, the government outlawed negative comments about the military or Spain itself in the Spanish press. Resentment of the military and of conscription grew with the disastrous Rif War of 1909 in Spanish Morocco. Lerroux's support of the army's aims lost him support. Events culminated in the Tragic Week () in Barcelona in 1909, when working class groups rioted against the call-up of reservists. 48 churches and similar institutions were burned in anti-clerical attacks. The riot was finally ended by the military; 1,725 members of such groups were put on trial, with five people sentenced to death. These events led to the establishment of the National Confederation of Labour (, CNT), an anarchist-controlled trade union committed to anarcho-syndicalism. It had over a million members by 1923.\nIncreasing exports during the First World War led to a boom in industry and declining living standards in the industrial areas, particularly Catalonia and the Basque country. There was high inflation. The industrial sector resented its subjugation by the agrarian central government. Along with concerns about antiquated promotion systems and political corruption, the war in Morocco had caused divisions in the military. Regenerationism became popular, and the working class, industrial class, and the military were united in their hope of removing the corrupt central government. However, these hopes were defeated in 1917 and 1918 when the various political parties representing these groups were either appeased or suppressed by the central government, one by one. The industrialists eventually backed the government as a way to restore order. After the formation of the Communist International in 1919, there was a growing fear of communism within Spain and growing repression on the part of the government through military means. The PSOE split, with the more left-wing members founding the Communist Party in 1921. The Restoration government failed to cope with an increasing number of strikes amongst the industrial workers in the north and the agricultural workers in the south.\n\nMiguel Primo de Rivera came to power in a military coup in 1923 and ran Spain as a military dictatorship. He handed monopolistic control of trade union power to the UGT, and introduced a sweeping programme of public works. These public works were extremely wasteful, including hydroelectric dams and highways causing the deficit to double between 1925 and 1929. Spain's financial situation was made far worse by the pegging of the peseta to the gold standard and by 1931 the peseta had lost nearly half its value. The UGT was brought into the government to set up industrial arbitration boards, though this move was opposed by some in the group and was seen as opportunism by anarchist leaders. He also attempted to defend the agrarian–industrial monarchist coalition formed during the war. No significant reform to the political system (and in particular the monarchy) was instituted. This made forming a new government difficult, as existing problems had not been rectified. Gradually, his support faded because his personal approach to political life ensured he was personally held accountable for the government's failings, and due to an increasing frustration over his interference in economic matters he didn't understand. José Calvo Sotelo, his finance minister, was one person to withdraw support, and de Rivera resigned in January 1930. There was little support for a return to the pre-1923 system, and the monarchy had lost credibility by backing the military government. Dámaso Berenguer was ordered by the king to form a replacement government, but his dictablanda dictatorship failed to provide a viable alternative. The choice of Berenguer annoyed another important general, José Sanjurjo, who believed himself to be a better choice. In the municipal elections of 12 April 1931, little support was shown for pro-monarchy parties in the major cities, and large numbers of people gathered in the streets of Madrid. King Alfonso XIII abdicated to prevent a \"fratricidal civil war\". The Second Spanish Republic was formed.\n\nThe Second Republic was a source of hope to the poorest in Spanish society and a threat to the richest, but had broad support from all segments of society. Niceto Alcalá-Zamora was the first prime minister of the Republic. The wealthier landowners and the middle class accepted the Republic because of the lack of any suitable alternative. Elections to a constituent Cortes in June 1931 returned a large majority of Republicans and Socialists, with the PSOE gaining 116 seats and Lerroux's Radical Party 94. Lerroux became foreign minister. The government was controlled by a Republican–Socialist coalition, whose members had differing objectives. Some more conservative members believed that the removal of the monarchy was enough by itself, but the Socialists and leftist Republicans demanded much wider reforms.\n\nThe state's financial position was poor. Supporters of the dictatorship attempted to block progress on reforming the economy. The redistribution of wealth supported by the new government seemed a threat to the richest, in light of the recent Wall Street Crash and the onset of the Great Depression. The government attempted to tackle the dire poverty in rural areas by instituting an eight-hour day and giving the security of tenure to farm workers. Landlords complained. The effectiveness of the reforms was dependent on the skill of the local governance, which was often badly lacking. Changes to the military were needed and education reform was another problem facing the Republic. The relationship between central government and the Basque and Catalan regions also needed to be decided.\n\nEffective opposition was led by three groups. The first group included Catholic movements such as the Asociación Católica de Propagandistas, who had influence over the judiciary and the press. Rural landowners were told to think of the Republic as godless and communist. The second group consisted of organisations that had supported the monarchy, such as the Renovación Española and Carlists, who wished to see the new republic overthrown in a violent uprising. The third group were Fascist organisations, among them supporters of the dictator's son, José Antonio Primo de Rivera. Primo de Rivera was the most significant leader of fascism in Spain. The press often editorialised about a foreign Jewish–Masonic–Bolshevik plot. Members of the CNT willing to cooperate with the Republic were forced out, and it continued to oppose the government. The deeply unpopular Civil Guard (), founded in 1844, was charged with putting down revolts and was perceived as ruthless. Violence, including at Castilblanco in December 1931, was usual.\n\nParties in opposition to Alcalá-Zamora's government gained the support of the church and the military. The head of the church in Spain, Cardinal Pedro Segura, was particularly vocal in his disapproval. Until the 20th century, the Catholic Church had proved an essential part of Spain's character, although it had internal problems. Segura was expelled from Spain in June 1931. This prompted an outcry from the Catholic right, who cited oppression. A series of church-burning incidents occurred in major Spanish cities throughout May 1931. When the government refused to call out the Guardia Civil, Minister for War Manuel Azaña came under heavy criticism from the rightist press. The military were opposed to reorganisation, including an increase in regional autonomy granted by the central government, and reforms to improve efficiency were seen as a direct attack. Officers were retired and a thousand had their promotions reviewed, including Francisco Franco, who served as director of the General Military Academy in Zaragoza, which was closed by Manuel Azaña.\n\nA new constitution was approved on 9 December 1931. The first draft, prepared by Ángel Ossorio y Gallardo and others, was rejected, and a much more daring text creating a \"democratic republic of workers of every class\" was promulgated. It contained much in the way of emotive language and included many controversial articles, some of which were aimed at curbing the Catholic Church. The constitution was reformist, liberal, and democratic in nature, and was welcomed by the Republican–Socialist coalition. It appalled landowners, industrialists, the organised church, and army officers.\n\nAs the government believed it was necessary to break the control the church had over Spanish affairs, the new constitution removed any special rights held by the Catholic Church. The constitution proclaimed religious freedom and a complete separation of Church and State. Catholic schools continued to operate, but outside the state system; in 1933 further legislation banned all monks and nuns from teaching. The Republic regulated church use of property and investments, provided for recovery and controls on the use of property the church had obtained during past dictatorships, and banned the Vatican-controlled Society of Jesus. The controversial articles 26 and 27 of the constitution strictly controlled Church property and prohibited religious orders from engaging in education. Supporters of the church and even Jose Ortega y Gasset, a liberal advocate of the separation of church and state, considered the articles overreaching. Other articles legalising divorce and initiating agrarian reforms were equally controversial, and on 13 October 1931, Gil Robles, the leading spokesman of the parliamentary right, called for a Catholic Spain to make its stand against the Republic. Commentator Stanley Payne has argued that \"the Republic as a democratic constitutional regime was doomed from the outset\", because the far left considered any moderation of the anticlerical aspects of the constitution as totally unacceptable.\n\nIn October 1931 Alcalá Zamora and his interior minister, Miguel Maura, resigned. Manuel Azaña became Prime Minister. Desiring the job for himself, Lerroux became alienated, and his Radical Party switched to the opposition, leaving Azaña dependent on the Socialists for support. The Socialists, who favoured reform, objected to the lack of progress. The reforms that were made alienated the land-holding right. Conditions for labourers remained dreadful; the reforms had not been enforced. Rural landowners declared war on the government by refusing to plant crops. Meanwhile, several agricultural strikes were harshly put down by the authorities. Reforms, including the unsuccessful attempt to break up large holdings, failed to significantly improve the situation for rural workers. By the end of 1931, King Alfonso, in exile, stopped attempting to prevent an armed insurrection of monarchists in Spain, and was tried and condemned to life imprisonment \"in absentia\".\n\nAzaña declared that Spain had \"ceased to be Catholic\"; although to an extent his statement was accurate, it was a politically unwise thing to say. An assault of a taxi driver supposedly due to his left-wing views sparked a wave of anti-clerical violence throughout south west urban Spain beginning on 11 May 1931; the government's reluctance to declare martial law in response and a comment attributed to Azaña that he would \"rather all the churches in Spain be burnt than a single Republican harmed\" prompted many Catholics to believe that the Republic was trying to prosecute Christianity. Restrictions on Christian iconography in schools and hospitals and the ringing of bells came into force in January 1932. State control of cemeteries was also imposed. Many ordinary Catholics began to see the government as an enemy because of the educational and religious reforms. Government actions were denounced as barbaric, unjust, and corrupt by the press.\n\nIn August 1932 there was an unsuccessful uprising by General José Sanjurjo, who had been particularly appalled by events in Castilblanco. The aims of the insurrection were vague, and it quickly turned into a fiasco. Among the generals tried and sent to Spanish colonies were four men who would go on to distinguish themselves fighting against the Republic in the civil war: the Duke of Seville, Martin Alonso, Ricardo Serrador Santés, and Heli Rolando de Tella y Cantos.\n\nThe political left became fractured, whilst the right united. The Socialist Party continued to support Azaña but headed further to the political left. Gil Robles set up a new party, the Spanish Confederation of the Autonomous Right (, CEDA) to contest the 1933 election, and tacitly embraced Fascism. The right won an overwhelming victory, with the CEDA and the Radicals together winning 219 seats. They had spent far more on their election campaign than the Socialists, who campaigned alone. The roughly 3,000 members of the Communist Party were at this point not significant.\n\nFollowing the elections of November 1933, Spain entered a period called the \"two black years\" (). Radicals became more aggressive and conservatives turned to paramilitary and vigilante actions. Official statistics state that 330 people were assassinated in addition to 213 failed attempts, and 1,511 people wounded in political violence. Those figures also indicate a total of 113 general strikes were called and 160 religious buildings were destroyed, typically by arson. Immediately after the election, the Socialists alleged electoral fraud; they had, according to the PSOE, needed twice as many votes as their opponents to win each seat. They identified the lack of unity in the left as another reason for their defeat. The Socialist opposition began to propagate a revolutionary ideal. The CEDA had won a plurality of seats, but not enough to form a majority. President Niceto Alcalá-Zamora declined to invite the leader of the CEDA, Gil Robles, to form a government, and instead invited the Radical Republican Party's Alejandro Lerroux to do so. The RRP, with the backing of CEDA, set about removing price controls, selling state favours and monopolies, and removing the land reforms—to the landowners' considerable advantage. This created growing malnourishment in the south of Spain. The agrarian reforms, still in force, went tacitly unenforced.\n\nThe first anarchist protest came on 8 December 1933, and was easily crushed by force in most of Spain; Zaragoza held out for four days before the Spanish Republican Army, employing tanks, stopped the uprising. The Socialists stepped up their rhetoric, hoping to force Zamora to call new elections. Carlists and Alfonsist monarchists continued to prepare, with Carlists undergoing military drills in Navarre; they received the backing of Italian Prime Minister Benito Mussolini. Gil Robles struggled to control the RRP's youth wing, which copied Germany and Italy's youth movements. Monarchists turned to the Fascist Falange Española, under the leadership of José Antonio Primo de Rivera, as a way to achieve their aims. Open violence occurred in the streets of Spanish cities.\n\nLerroux resigned in April 1934, after President Zamora hesitated to sign an Amnesty Bill which let off the arrested members of the 1932 plot. He was replaced by Ricardo Samper. The Socialist Party ruptured over the question of whether or not to move towards Bolshevism. The youth wing, the Federation of Young Socialists (), were particularly militant. The anarchists called a four-week strike in Zaragoza. Gil Robles' CEDA continued to mimic the German Nazi Party, staging a rally in March 1934, to shouts of \"Jefe\" (\"Chief\", after the Italian \"Duce\" used in support of Mussolini). Gil Robles used an anti-strike law to successfully provoke and break up unions one at a time, and attempted to undermine the republican government of the Esquerra in Catalonia, who were attempting to continue the republic's reforms. Efforts to remove local councils from socialist control prompted a general strike, which was brutally put down by Interior Minister Salazar Alonso, with the arrest of four deputies and other significant breaches of articles 55 and 56 of the constitution. The Socialist Landworkers' Federation (, FNTT), a trade union founded in 1930, was effectively prevented from operating until 1936.\n\nOn 26 September, the CEDA announced it would no longer support the RRP's minority government. It was replaced by an RRP cabinet, again led by Lerroux, that included three members of the CEDA. A UGT general strike was unsuccessful in most of Spain. Lluís Companys (leader of the Republican Left of Catalonia and the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia) saw an opportunity in the general strike and declared Catalonia an independent state inside the federal republic of Spain; the Esquerra, however, refused to arm the populace, and the head of the military in Catalonia, Domingo Batet, charged with putting down the revolt, showed similar restraint. In response, Lluís Companys was arrested and Catalan autonomy was suspended. This aggrieved Franco, who was directing the military from Madrid. Franco was put in informal command of the military effort against the revolt in Asturias, the only place where it had succeeded. Around 30,000 workers were called to arms in ten days. Atrocities were carried out by both sides. Franco's men, some brought in from Spain's Army of Africa, killed men, women and children and carried out summary executions after the main cities of Asturias were retaken. About 1,000 workers were killed, with about 250 government soldiers left dead. The failed rising in Asturias marked the effective end of the Republic. Months of retaliation and repression followed; torture was used on political prisoners. Even moderate reformists within the CEDA became sidelined. The two generals in charge of the campaign, Franco and Manuel Goded Llopis, were seen as heroes. Azaña was unsuccessfully made out to be a revolutionary criminal by his right-wing opponents. Gil Robles once again prompted a cabinet collapse, and five positions in Lerroux's new government were conceded to CEDA, including one awarded to Gil Robles himself. Farm workers' wages were halved, and the military was purged of republican members and reformed. Those loyal to Robles were promoted, and Franco was made Chief of Staff.\n\nIn 1935 Azaña and Indalecio Prieto started to unify the left and to combat its extreme elements. They staged large, popular rallies of what would become the Popular Front. Lerroux's Radical government collapsed after two major scandals, including the Straperlo affair. However, Zamora did not allow the CEDA to form a government, instead calling elections. The elections of 1936 were won by the Popular Front, with vastly smaller resources than the political right who followed Nazi propaganda techniques. The right began to plan how to best overthrow the Republic, rather than taking control of it.\n\nThe government was weak, and the influence of the revolutionary Largo Caballero prevented socialists from being part of the cabinet. The republicans were left to govern alone; Azaña led a minority government. Pacification and reconciliation would have been a huge task. Largo Caballero accepted support from the Communist Party (with a membership of around 10,000). Acts of violence and reprisals increased. By early 1936, Azaña found that the left was using its influence to circumvent the Republic and the constitution; they were adamant about increasingly radical changes. Parliament replaced Zamora with Azaña in April. Zamora's removal was made on specious grounds, using a constitutional technicality. Azaña and Prieto hoped that by holding the positions of Prime Minister and President, they could push through enough reforms to pacify the left and deal with right-wing militancy. However, Azaña was increasingly isolated from everyday politics; his replacement, Casares Quiroga, was weak. Although the right also voted for Zamora's removal, this was a watershed event which inspired conservatives to give up on parliamentary politics. Leon Trotsky wrote that Zamora had been Spain's \"stable pole\", and his removal was another step towards revolution. Largo Caballero held out for a collapse of the republican government, to be replaced with a socialist one as in France.\n\nCEDA turned its campaign chest over to army plotter Emilio Mola. Monarchist José Calvo Sotelo replaced CEDA's Gil Robles as the right's leading spokesman in parliament. The Falange expanded rapidly, and many members of the Juventudes de Acción Popular joined. They successfully created a sense of militancy on the streets to try to justify an authoritarian regime. Prieto did his best to avoid revolution by promoting a series of public works and civil order reforms, including of parts of the military and civil guard. Largo Caballero took a different attitude, continuing to preach of an inevitable overthrow of society by the workers. Largo Caballero also disagreed with Prieto's idea of a new Republican–Socialist coalition. With Largo Caballero's acquiescence, communists alarmed the middle classes by quickly taking over the ranks of socialist organisations. This alarmed the middle classes. The division of the Popular Front prevented the government from using its power to prevent right-wing militancy. The CEDA came under attack from the Falange, and Prieto's attempts at moderate reform were attacked by the Socialist Youth. Sotelo continued to do his best to make conciliation impossible.\n\nCasares failed to heed Prieto's warnings of a military conspiracy involving several generals who disliked professional politicians and wanted to replace the government to prevent the dissolution of Spain. The military coup of July that started the Spanish Civil War was devised with Mola as director and Sanjurjo as a figurehead leader.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10201101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10201101", "title": "Battle of Abu-Ageila (1967)", "text": "Battle of Abu-Ageila (1967)\n\nThe Battle of Abu-Ageila was a military confrontation between the Israeli and Egyptian militaries in the June 1967 Six-Day War. The decisive defeat of the Egyptians was critical to the eventual loss of the entire Sinai Peninsula to Israel. Leading Israeli forces was Major General Ariel Sharon, later a prominent politician and prime minister of Israel.\n\nThe Israeli attack at Abu-Ageila was part of the Israeli offensive into the Sinai Desert. Southern Command's offensive consisted of 3 divisions: Israel Tal's 84th Division, Avraham Yoffe's 31st Division, and Ariel Sharon's 38th Division. Sharon was tasked with the capture of the road junction at Abu-Ageila, in order to gain access to the central route into the Sinai Desert. The Egyptians had taken considerable preparations to prevent a breach there. Egyptian defences had focused on the Um-Katef (or Umm-Qatef) plateau to the east of Abu-Ageila, roughly 25 kilometers from the Israeli border. The defences were an important part of the overall defence plan, called \"Qahir\", in the preparations for the expected war, later known as the Six-Day War.\n\nIsraeli troops numbered about 14,000. Egyptian troop strengths have been estimated at 8,000. More importantly, the Israelis had significant advantage in armour: against 66 Egyptian World War II-era T34/85 with 85 mm guns, and 22 SU-100 with 100 mm guns, the Israelis pitted a total of 150 modern tanks: AMX-13's with 75 mm guns, as well as a hundred Centurions and Super Shermans, armed with 105 mm guns. The guns used by the Centurions were the Royal Ordnance L7 tank guns, specifically made to defeat the T-54, a tank more modern than both types of tanks used by the Egyptians in this battle. On the other side, the best tank gun available for the Egyptians, used by the 22 SU-100 tank destroyers, was a late-WW2 artillery piece overmatched by Centurion's front armor. As a result, in addition to numerical superiority, the Israeli tanks also had a greater effective range than their opponents.\n\nA list of units involved:\n\nIsraeli forces:\n\nEgyptian forces:\nAttached to 12th Brigade\n\nNotes\n\nThe Egyptian defence was constructed as follows: the 2nd infantry Division prepared defenses in the area between Abu-Ageila and Kusseima, with the center placed at the area Um-Katef Plateau - Ruafa Dam, with the 12th Infantry Brigade defending Um-Katef and the 10th Infantry Brigade Kusseima. Um-Katef made a good position, because it was bordered by an area of sand dunes to the north and rocky mountains to the south. On this plateau, the Egyptians constructed three parallel trenches of about five kilometers each, reinforced by concrete bunkers. Every trench was defended by an infantry battalion, with the forward trench reinforced by a dug-in tank squadron. To the rear were two supporting artillery battalions (330th, 334th), behind them the balance of 288th Tank Battalion ready to counterattack. To the north, blocking the Batur Track at Position 181, were 38th Infantry Battalion, 299th Artillery Battalion and an antitank company of ten SU-100. They were to protect the flank of the main position to the southeast.\n\nFive kilometers to the West of the Um-Katef Plateau perimeter was the Ruafa Dam. Dug in here were the 352nd Infantry Battalion, and the 332nd and 336th Artillery Battalions. Five kilometers to the northwest of Abu-Ageila, at the well and logistic center at Awlad Ali, the balance of the 6th Tank Regiment (one tank battalion) was positioned to block enemy forces coming from the northeast or against the positions of the 12th Brigade to the east or southeast.\n\nTo the east in front of the 12th Brigade positions on the ridge at Umm Tarafa was an outpost manned by an infantry company of 38th Battalion, a squadron of tanks from 288th Battalion, and two B-10 recoilless guns. At Position 239, south of Umm Tafara was a platoon of 37th Infantry Battalion, with two B-10 recoilless guns and two antitank weapons. Further east at Tarat Umm Basis near the Israeli border was the 2nd Reconnaissance Battalion, which was to give warning of any Israeli attack.\n\nThe Israeli attack-plan was based on intelligence gathered two days before the war started, which indicated Um-Katef was defended by only one infantry battalion. Based on this information, the Israelis planned a frontal attack by their reinforced independent tank battalion. After aerial bombardments, this tank battalion started its attack on Um-Katef on the 5th of June at 0815 hours. The attack came to a halt however, due to resistance from an unknown Egyptian formation and an unknown minefield, causing the loss of seven Israeli Centurions. New orders for the independent tank battalion were to break off the attack and to attack from the north, through the sand dunes. Now the 14th armoured brigade (two tank battalions Super Shermans and two armoured infantry battalions in halftracks) was ordered to attack frontally further south. After a short aerial bombardment, this attack commenced at 1230, but was forced to a halt as well.\n\nNow that strength and positions of the Egyptians were known, General Sharon changed his plans. The independent tank battalion was ordered to drive through the sand dunes following a camel-path and attack the Egyptian armour at the Ruafa Dam. At the same time, the 14th armoured brigade would attack from the East. However, before this could happen, Um-Katef would have to be taken, a task given to Sharon's infantry brigade, held in reserve up till then. This infantry attack was to occur under the cover of darkness, following a secondary approach to Um-Katef through the sand dunes. Meanwhile, the Israeli armour would provide support and all Israeli artillery would be used in support of this attack. This meant there would be no suppressing fire on the Egyptian artillery, making the Israeli infantry extremely vulnerable. It was decided that the Egyptian artillery would be taken out of action prior to the attack using the brigade of paratroopers. However, with only six helicopters available, only a limited number of units could be used. Meanwhile, the independent tank battalion was engaged by the Egyptian defenders in the sand dunes by 1600 and were able to continue to their positions near Abu-Ageila and the Ruafa Dam at 1800. The infantry brigade was in place at around 2300, while the paratroopers, after being discovered and fired upon by Egyptian artillery, made it to their attack positions at 2300.\n\nThe attack started at June 5, 2400 hours, after the Israeli artillery had been firing from 2330 – 2400 hours with Israeli tanks moving into position under the noise of the artillery. After heavy fighting, the Israeli infantry battalions broke through the trenches at Um-Katef, with one-third of them cleared by 0230. Now the engineers started clearing a way through the minefield which was completed at 0400, allowing the 14th armoured brigade to roll on to the Ruafa Dam. On 6 June at 0700, the Israelis attacked the Egyptian tank battalions and antitank battalions from two sides, with the Centurion tanks of the 14th from the east and the Super Sherman tanks from the west. After three hours of fighting, these Egyptian units were destroyed, after which remnants of the 12th Egyptian Brigade were cleared. At around 1200, the road junction at Abu-Ageila was in Israeli hands and the road to the Sinai was open. The battle ended with 40 KIA and 19 tanks lost for the Israelis, and 2,000 KIA and 60 tanks lost on the Egyptian side.\n\nThe victory at Abu-Ageila meant the road to the Central Sinai was open for the Israelis in general, Sharon and his forces in particular. Many of the Egyptian units remained intact and could have tried to prevent the Israelis from reaching the Suez Canal. However, when the Egyptian Minister of Defense, Field Marshal Abdel Hakim Amer heard about the fall of Abu-Ageila, he panicked and ordered all units in the Sinai to retreat to the west bank of the Suez canal within a single day. There was no plan for the retreat, so the units left behind heavy equipment, and sometimes even outpaced their commanders. This resulted in the Israelis racing to capture abandoned sites, and obtaining significant amounts of abandoned tanks and equipment. So much was captured intact that after the war 3 mechanized and 2 armored brigades were created from this abandoned equipment. The withdrawal order effectively meant the defeat of Egypt. By June 8, 1967, most of the Sinai area had been occupied by Israeli forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39028846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39028846", "title": "Big Tree (Washington)", "text": "Big Tree (Washington)\n\nThe Big Tree (also known as the Trout Lake Big Tree) was a massive Ponderosa pine tree in an old-growth pine and fir forest in southern Washington state, at the southern base of Mount Adams. The area is managed by the Mount Adams Ranger District of the Gifford Pinchot National Forest. The tree was tall with a diameter of , and was one of the largest known Ponderosa pines in the world. It had been stressed by attacks from mountain pine beetles and its death in 2015 was confirmed the following year.\n\nFrom the small farming community of Trout Lake, the Big Tree Interpretive Site can be accessed via Forest Road 80 and 8020. The interpretive site offers the opportunity to view or picnic at the base of the tree.\n\nIts age was unknown, partially because of rot in its center sections.\n\nDespite having immense tracts of old growth conifers, the State of Washington is one of two states that lacks a state coordinator to find, track and keep current records on important trees.\n\n"}
{"id": "24068195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068195", "title": "Boeing CST-100 Starliner", "text": "Boeing CST-100 Starliner\n\nThe Boeing CST-100 Starliner (Crew Space Transportation) crew capsule is a spacecraft design under construction by Boeing as their entry for NASA's Commercial Crew Development (CCDev) program. Its primary purpose is to transport crew to the International Space Station (ISS) and to private space stations such as the proposed Bigelow Aerospace Commercial Space Station.\n\nStarliner is similar in concept to the Orion spacecraft being built for NASA by Lockheed Martin. The capsule has a diameter of , which is slightly larger than the Apollo command module and smaller than the Orion capsule. The Starliner is to support larger crews of up to seven people and is being designed to be able to remain on-orbit for up to seven months with reusability of up to ten missions. , it was intended to be compatible with four launch vehicles: Atlas V, Delta IV, Falcon 9, and Vulcan. , the initial launch vehicle was planned to be the Atlas V N22, to be launched from SLC-41 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida.\n\nIn the first phase of its CCDev program NASA awarded Boeing US$18 million in 2010 for preliminary development of the spacecraft. In the second phase Boeing was awarded a $93 million contract in 2011 for further spacecraft development. On August 3, 2012, NASA announced the award of $460 million to Boeing to continue work on the CST-100 under the Commercial Crew Integrated Capability (CCiCap) Program. On September 16, 2014, NASA selected the CST-100, along with SpaceX's Dragon V2, for the Commercial Crew Transportation Capability (CCtCap) program, with an award of $4.2 billion. , the spacecraft is expected to conduct an automated test mission to the ISS in March 2019, and to carry its first crew on a demonstration flight in August 2019.\n\nThe design draws upon Boeing's experience with NASA's Apollo, Space Shuttle and ISS programs as well as the Orbital Express project sponsored by the Department of Defense. The CST-100 has no Orion heritage, but it is sometimes confused with the earlier and similar Orion-derived Orion Lite proposal that Bigelow was reportedly working on with technical assistance from Lockheed Martin. It will use the NASA Docking System for docking and use the Boeing Lightweight Ablator for its heatshield. The Starliner's solar cells will provide more than 2,900 watts of electricity, will be placed on top of the micro-meteoroid debris shield located at the bottom of the spacecraft's service module.\n\n, it was intended to be compatible with multiple launch vehicles, including the Atlas V, Delta IV, and Falcon 9, as well as the planned Vulcan.\n\nUnlike earlier U.S. space capsules, the CST-100 will make airbag-cushioned landings on the ground rather than into water. Five landing areas are planned in the Western United States, which will give the CST-100 about 450 landing opportunities every year.\n\n, the CST-100 was to include one space tourist seat, and the Boeing contract with NASA allows Boeing to price and sell passage to low-Earth orbit on that seat.\n\nThe CST-100 name was first used when the capsule was revealed to the public by Bigelow Aerospace CEO Robert Bigelow in June 2010. The letters CST stand for Crew Space Transportation. Although it has been reported that the number 100 in the name stands for 100 km, the height of the Kármán line which is one of several definitions of the boundary of space, the naming was in fact an arbitrary designation created by the corporate office. The Rocketdyne RS-88 (Bantam) engine will be used for its launch escape system.\n\nReceiving the full fixed-price payments for the CCDev Phase 1 Space Act Agreement required a set of specific milestones to be met during 2010:\n\n, Boeing stated that the capsule could be operational in 2015 with sufficient near-term approvals and funding, but also indicated they would proceed with development of the CST-100 only if NASA implemented the commercial crew transport initiative that was announced by the Obama administration in its FY11 budget request. Boeing executive Roger Krone stated that NASA investment would allow Boeing to close the business case, while this would be very difficult without NASA. In addition a second destination besides the ISS would be needed to close the business case and Krone said that cooperation with Bigelow was crucial for this.\n\nBoeing was awarded a $92.3 million contract by NASA in April 2011 to continue to develop the CST-100 under CCDev phase 2. On August 3, 2012, NASA announced the award of $460 million to Boeing to continue work on the CST-100 under the Commercial Crew Integrated Capability (CCiCap) Program.\n\nOn October 31, 2011, NASA announced that through a partnership with Space Florida, the Orbiter Processing Facility-3 at Kennedy Space Center would be leased to Boeing for manufacture and test of CST-100 spacecraft.\n\nOn September 16, 2014, NASA chose Boeing (CST-100) and SpaceX (Dragon V2) as the two companies that will be funded to develop systems to transport U.S. government crews to and from the International Space Station. Boeing won a $4.2 billion contract to complete and certify CST-100 spacecraft by 2017, while SpaceX won a $2.6 billion contract to complete and certify their crewed Dragon spacecraft. The contracts include at least one crewed flight test with at least one NASA astronaut aboard. Once the Starliner achieves NASA certification, the contract requires Boeing to conduct at least two, and as many as six, crewed missions to the space station. NASA's William H. Gerstenmaier considers the CST-100 proposal as stronger than the two others.\n\nPart of the agreement with NASA allows Boeing to sell seats for space tourists. Boeing proposed including one seat per flight for a space flight participant at a price that would be competitive with what Roscosmos charges tourists.\n\nOn September 4, 2015, Boeing announced that the CST-100 would officially be called the CST-100 Starliner, a name that follows the conventions of the 787 Dreamliner produced by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. In November 2015, NASA announced it had dropped Boeing from consideration in the multibillion-dollar Commercial Resupply Services second-phase competition to fly cargo to the International Space Station.\n\nIn May 2016, Boeing delayed its first scheduled CST-100 launch from 2017 to early 2018. Then in October 2016, Boeing delayed its program by six months, from early 2018 to late 2018, following supplier holdups and a production problem on the second CST-100. By 2016, they were hoping to fly NASA astronauts to the ISS by December 2018.\n\nIn April 2018, NASA suggested the first planned two-person flight of the CST-100 Starliner, slated for November 2018, was now likely to occur in 2019 or 2020. If the delays are maintained it would be expected to carry one additional crew member and extra supplies. Instead of staying for two weeks as originally planned, NASA said the expanded crew could stay at the station for as long as six months as a normal rotational flight.\n\nA variety of validation tests have been underway on test articles since 2011.\n\nIn September 2011, Boeing announced the completion of a set of ground drop tests to validate the design of the airbag cushioning system. The airbags are located underneath the heat shield of the CST-100, which is designed to be separated from the capsule while under parachute descent at about altitude. The airbags are deployed by filling with a mixture of compressed nitrogen and oxygen gas, not with the pyro-explosive mixture sometimes used in automotive airbags. The tests were carried out in the Mojave Desert of southeast California, at ground speeds between in order to simulate crosswind conditions at the time of landing. Bigelow Aerospace built the mobile test rig and conducted the tests.\n\nIn April 2012, Boeing dropped a mock-up of its CST-100 commercial crew capsule over the Nevada desert at the Delamar Dry Lake near Alamo, Nevada, successfully testing the craft's three main landing parachutes from .\n\nIn August 2013, Boeing announced that two NASA astronauts evaluated communications, ergonomics, and crew-interface aspects of the CST-100, showing how future astronauts will operate in the spacecraft as it transports them to the International Space Station and other low Earth orbit destinations.\n\nBoeing reported in May 2016 that its test schedule would slip by eight months in order to reduce the mass of the spacecraft and aerodynamics issues anticipated during launch and ascent on the Atlas V rocket. The booster for the Orbital Flight Test, an Atlas V N22 rocket, is being assembled at ULA's facility at Decatur, Alabama, . The first crewed flight (Boe-CFT) is scheduled for early 2019, depending on test results from Boe-OFT. It is planned to last 14 days and carry one NASA astronaut and one Boeing test pilot to the ISS. On April 5, 2018, NASA announced that the first planned two-person flight, originally slated for November 2018, is now likely to occur in 2019 or 2020. If this delay occurs the mission could be expected to carry one additional crew member and supplies. NASA said the expanded crew could stay at the station for as long as six months as a normal rotational flight. This is due to the ending of the agreement for Russia to ferry astronauts to and from the International Space Station in late 2019. NASA has named its first Commercial Crew astronaut cadre of four veteran astronauts to work with SpaceX and Boeing: Robert Behnken, Eric Boe, Sunita Williams, and Douglas Hurley. In July 2018 Boeing announced the assignment of former NASA astronaut Chris Ferguson to the Boe-CFT mission.\n\nIn July 2018, a test anomaly was reported in which there was a hypergolic propellant leak due to several faulty abort system valves. Consequentially the first unpiloted orbital mission was delayed to March 2019, and the first crew launch rescheduled to August 2019.\n\nOn August 3, 2018, NASA announced the following astronauts will participate in the first Starliner flights:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33543324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33543324", "title": "Broadway Bro Down", "text": "Broadway Bro Down\n\n\"Broadway Bro Down\" is the eleventh episode of the fifteenth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\", and the 220th episode overall. It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 26, 2011. In the episode, Randy discovers that musicals contain subtext that encourage women to give oral sex, meanwhile Shelly starts dating the vegan kid.\n\nThe episode was written by Trey Parker and Robert Lopez as an uncredited writer, who previously worked with Parker and Matt Stone on the Tony Award-winning musical, \"The Book of Mormon\". This episode is rated TV-MA-LS in the United States.\n\nRandy hears from his male co-workers that taking women to Broadway shows sexually arouses them into performing oral sex. Randy takes Sharon to Denver to see \"Wicked\", but is confused and unimpressed with the lack of overt sexuality. He is informed by a fellow theatergoer at the theater's bar that women are aroused not by the production's explicit sexuality, but by its subtext. When Randy returns to the auditorium, he now hears the actors underhandedly referencing blowjobs frequently in the songs' lyrics. On the ride home Sharon performs fellatio on him, and as a result, Randy decides to take her to New York City to see all the Broadway shows, leaving Stan and Shelley with the Feegans, South Park's resident life-preserver wearing vegans. During their dinner with the Feegans, Shelly gets into a confrontation with Mr. Feegan over letting his son Larry decide for himself if he wants to be a vegan. This results in Larry developing greater confidence, falling in love with Shelly, and abandoning his life preserver.\n\nUpon returning to South Park, Randy laments the fact that he does not live closer to a major theater venue like Broadway, as the Denver production of \"Wicked\", to which he has already taken Sharon 23 times, will soon move to Seattle. He decides to produce a local play, though he discards subtext by naming it \"Splooge-Drenched Blowjob Queen\", and not only makes the show about women giving oral sex, but includes direct commands to Sharon in it. This attracts the attention of Stephen Sondheim, Stephen Schwartz, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Elton John. The four are depicted as hypermasculine, beer drinking heterosexuals who hang out at Hooters, and are called \"Bros\" (Sondheim and John are openly gay in real life). They chastise Randy for the overt use of sexuality in his play, explaining to him that the lack of any real subtext would expose the truth behind Broadway shows. Randy dismisses their criticisms, insisting that his play is filled with subtext, but after a \"bro-down\" with Sondheim in a parking lot, in which they confront each other with verbal challenges, Randy agrees to accept their assistance, and renames his play \"The Woman in White\".\n\nWhen Randy returns home and learns that Sharon gave Shelly two tickets to see \"Wicked\" with Larry, Randy is horrified, and races to Denver with Sharon, revealing to her the truth about Broadway shows, much to her own horror. Initially thrown out of the theater for being disruptive, Randy dons a Spider-Man costume and swings through the auditorium, knocking out several patrons and production personnel, before breaking open a water main, forcing the play into an intermission and fatally drowning Larry, much to Shelly's grief. Shelly's grief is accentuated by the fact that Larry drowned because his budding self-confidence – borne of his new relationship with Shelly – had caused Larry to abandon his life-preserver. Randy apologizes to Sharon for taking her to the theater to get oral sex in return, though she expresses difficulty in faulting him for doing what all other men also do, pointing out that musicals must have value if they brought them closer together. When Sharon asks which show is coming to Denver next, an advertisement for Trey Parker, Matt Stone and Robert Lopez's musical \"The Book of Mormon\" plays, with the narrator quickly muttering, \"You'll get a blowjob!\"\n\nTrey Parker and Matt Stone had just finished working with composer Robert Lopez in the Broadway musical \"The Book of Mormon\" before this season of \"South Park\" commenced. During the collaboration, the duo offered Lopez a chance to come to their studio to create an episode with them and workshop ideas. He arrived on a Thursday at Halloween-time, so the notion of a generic Halloween-themed episode was tossed around. Broadway and musicals were never explicitly on the table until the idea of \"trying to make Broadway cool for dudes\" came up. They were anxious about the number of songs - albeit short ones - that they had to write. They kept on putting this off as they needed time to hash out the story. They ended up frantically writing songs on the following Tuesday. Trey and Matt thoroughly enjoyed the one-off experience and expressed an interest in collaborating with Lopez again, not necessarily in the context of a musical episode.\n\nThe episode has received positive reviews.\n\nRamsey Isler of IGN gave the episode a 7.5 out of 10, writing, \"When it comes down to it, it's the one-liners and the strength of the A-plot that make this episode work. Had it not been for the annoying repetition and the near-useless B-plot, this would have been one of my favorites of the season so far. But the episode accomplishes the neat trick of poking fun at a topic while still expressing love for it, and that makes up for a lot\". Ryan McGee of \"The A.V. Club\" graded the episode an A, stating, \"The show has long featured the musical stylings of its co-creators, but rarely has that skill been deployed as effectively as tonight’s masterful half-hour ... It managed to be incredibly sweet while being ridiculously filthy. It mocked what it loved while never losing sight of that love in the process. In short, it was pure South Park.\" Eric Hochberger of TV Fanatic rated the episode 3/5 stars, commenting \"There were definitely some fun theater references, including the most appropriate costume Randy could have grabbed to sabotage a play, Spider-Man, but was the one-note joke of the blow job really enough to sustain the full half hour of laughs? For me, not so much\", and adding that the B plot \"seemed to tie-in nicely with the Broadway adventure at the end, but it still felt undeveloped\". Aly Semigram of Entertainment Weekly said \"The episode could have just been a one-off about Broadway and worked just fine, but by bringing Spider-Man — a show that’s been out of the spotlight for a while now — into the mix, it felt somewhat outdated.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58648951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58648951", "title": "CMLL Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles (2017)", "text": "CMLL Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles (2017)\n\nThe CMLL Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles 2017 or \"National Incredible Pairs Tournament 2017\" was a tag team \"Lucha Libre\" tournament held by the Mexican wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). The tournament is based on the Lucha Libre \"Parejas Increíbles\" match concept, which pairs two wrestlers of opposite allegiance, one portraying a villain, referred to as a \"\"rudo\" in Lucha Libre wrestling terminology, and one portraying a fan favorites, or \"técnico\"\". The 2017 version of the tournament was the eight time in a row that CMLL held the tournament since the first tournament in 2010. The winners are presented with a trophy but not given any other tangible reward for the victory.\n\nSixteen teams competed in the three night tournament, with Volador Jr. and Bárbaro Cavernario winning Block A held on February 10, 2017, and the team of Último Guerrero and Valiente winning Block B a week later on February 17, 2017. Finally Volador Jr. and Bárbaro Cavernario won the finals on February 24, 2017 to take the entire tournament. It was Bárbaro Cavernario's first Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles victory while Volador Jr. previously won the 2013 tournament with La Sombra.\n\nThe Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL; \"World Wrestling Council\") held their first Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles (\"National Incredible Pairs Tournament\") in 2010, from January 22 through February 5, marking the beginning of an annual tournament. CMLL has previous held Parejas Increíbles tournaments on an irregular basis and often promoted individual Parejas Increíbles and Relevos Increíbles (\"Incredible Relay\", with teams of three or more wrestlers). The Parejas Increíbles concept is a long standing tradition in \"lucha libre\" and is at times referred to as a \"strange bedfellows\" match in English speaking countries, because a Pareja Increible consists of a face (referred to as a \"técnico\" in Lucha Libre, or a \"good guy\") and a heel (a \"rudo\", those that portray \"the bad guys\") teamed up for a specific match, or in this case for a tournament. The 2017 tournament will be the eight annual Parejas Increíbles tournament, and like its predecessors will be part of CMLL's regular Friday night CMLL Super Viernes (\"Super Friday\") shows to be held in Arena México, CMLL's main venue in Mexico City, Mexico.\n\nThe tournament featured 15 professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers teaming up, some of whom were involved in pre-existing scripted feuds or storylines while others were simply paired up for the tournament. For the Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increíbles tournaments, CMLL often teamed up a \"técnico\" (those that portray the \"good guys\" in wrestling, also known as faces) and a \"rudo\" (the \"bad guy\" or heels) who are involved in a pre-existing storyline feud at the time of the tournament so that the tournament itself can be used as a storytelling device to help tell the story of escalating confrontations between two feuding wrestlers. The tournament format followed CMLL's traditional tournament formats, with two qualifying blocks of eight teams that competed during the first and second week of the tournament and a final match between the two block winners. The qualifying blocks were all one-fall matches while the tournament final was a best two-out-of-three-falls tag team match.\n\n\n\nOne of the main CMLL feuds at the time of the 2017 Parejas Increibles tournament was the ongoing rivalry between Diamante Azul and Pierroth, a feud that at the time of the tournament was expected to be the main event of the 2017 Homenaje a Dos Leyendas (\"Homage to two legends\") show. The feud often saw Pierroth, with help from his Los Ingobernables partners Rush and La Máscara, leave Diamante Azul beaten up and with his mask either torn or completely removed during matches.\n\nWhile Atlantis and Euforia were not directly involved in a feud the team had some history prior to the 2017 tournament. Originally Atlantis was part of Los Guerreros del Infierno, which also included EUforia. He would later leave the team, turning \"tecnico\" to feud with Último Guerrero, the leader of \"Los Guerreros\". Atlantis teamed with Euforia to win the 2014 tournament.\n\nWhile some of the teams were put together because of ongoing storylines others were teamed up based on previous feuds. The team of Rey Cometa and Puma, played off a storyline rivalry between the two from 2012. During the fall of 2012 the two masked mid-card wrestlers developed a rivalry that led to both wrestlers putting their mask on the line as part of CMLL's 79th Anniversary Show. Rey Cometa was defeated by Puma and thus had to take off his mask and reveal his birth name. Following the mask loss Rey Cometa and Puma moved off in different directions, only crossing path on occasions. Another dormant story-line was the feud between Dragon Lee and La Máscara that carried the main event match of the CMLL 83rd Anniversary Show, which saw Dragon Lee defeating and unmasking La Máscara at the end of the night. Following the match La Máscara and Dragon Lee's brother Rush, reformed Los Ingobernables and actually attacked Dragon Lee.\n\nThe team of Rush and El Terrible had teamed together in two previous Parejas Increibles tournaments, both as part of a long, heated storyline feud between the two that ran from 2011 through 2012. The storyline saw El Terrible defeat Rush to win the vacant CMLL World Heavyweight Championship, The two were teamed up for the 2012 \"Torneo Nacional de Parejas Increibles\" as CMLL continued to build the feud. The two were able to work together well enough to make it to the finals of the tournament but lost to Atlantis and Euforia in the finals when they were unable to get along. After the loss Rush made a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" challenge to El Terrible. THe storyline culminated on September 14 in the main event of CMLL's \"79th Anniversary Show\", where El Terrible lost and as a result, shaved bald. In March, 2013 El Terrible and Rush teamed up for the 2013 \"Torneo de Parejas Increibles\" like they had for the 2012 tournament, but the team lost in the first round to Dragón Rojo, Jr. and Niebla Roja.\n\nThe rivalry between Pierroth and Diamante Azul reached it's peak only a few weeks later as the two faced off in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\"', or \"bet match\" on March 17, 2017 in the main event of the 2017 Homenaje a Dos Leyendas show. Diamante Azul won the match and forced Pierroth to unmask afterwards per \"lucha libre\" traditions.\n"}
{"id": "34946979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34946979", "title": "Caribbean Football Union corruption scandal", "text": "Caribbean Football Union corruption scandal\n\nThe Caribbean Football Union corruption scandal involved attempted bribery used to win the votes of national football associations from the Caribbean Football Union in the 2011 FIFA presidential election.\n\nThe bribes were offered on 20 May 2011, at a meeting of the CFU, held in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. The meeting had been arranged so that the president of the Asian Football Confederation, Mohammed Bin Hammam, could address representatives of the CFU, in an attempt to persuade them to vote for him in the upcoming FIFA presidential elections. As it was a meeting for the Caribbean Football Union, the CONCACAF members from Central America (UNCAF) and North America (NAFU) were not present.\n\nThe vice president of the Bahamas Football Association, Fred Lunn, reported that while attending the meeting, he had been given a brown envelope containing US$40,000, in exchange for which he was expected to vote for Bin Hammam. During the subsequent investigations, the CONCACAF president Jack Warner and various CFU officials were also implicated in the bribery. Both Warner and Bin Hammam denied any involvement.\n\nThe incident resulted in Bin Hammam's suspension and Warner's resignation, as well as the suspension of over 30 CFU vice-presidents and staff, and the investigation of over 30 national football association officials.\n\nIt was a sensitive time for FIFA, who had been criticised in the European press for their handling of corruption accusations, which extended to FIFA President Sepp Blatter. The Nigeria Football Federation and West African Football Union leader Amos Adamu and the Oceania Football Confederation and Tahitian Football Federation President Reynald Temarii had been banned from football for requesting payments in kind in the run-up to the 2018 and 2022 World Cup hosting bid vote. A BBC episode of Panorama had been featured showing various FIFA officials refusing to answer to allegations. There were also suspicions that Qatar (Bin Hammam's nation) had won the rights to the host the 2022 World Cup by bribing FIFA Executive Officers.\n\nIn the run-up to the FIFA Presidency elections that would place at the 61st FIFA Congress, FIFA President Sepp Blatter and his electoral opposition Mohammed Bin Hammam were expected to meet with CONCACAF delegates to persuade them who to vote for.\n\nSepp Blatter met with all members of the CFU when they met on 3 May 2011 at the annual CONCACAF Congress at the JW Marriott hotel in Miami, Florida along with members of the NAFU and UNCAF.However, the Asian Football Confederation President and FIFA Presidential candidate Mohammed bin Hammam stated that he was unable to attend the meeting.\n\nAt the congress, Jack Warner retained his position as CONCACAF President having been voted in, for his sixth consecutive four-year term.\n\nAs a result of Bin Hammam's absence, it was arranged for a second meeting to be held on 10 May 2011 in the Hyatt Regency hotel, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad where Mohammed Bin Hammam could attend and address the CFU members as the majority of CONCACAF members are also members of the CFU.\n\nAnton Sealey, the President of the Bahamas Football Association was attending an event in the run-up to the 61st FIFA Congress in Zurich, Switzerland, as such, he was unable to attend a meeting in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad.\n\nBahamas FA's Vice President, Fred Lunn, attended the meeting, whilst there, Lunn was given brown envelope with the word \"Bahamas\" written on it containing US$40,000. Believing it to be a bribe in a cash-for-votes scandal, funded by bin Hammam, Lunn reported the incident to Sealey, who in turn reported it to CONCACAF General Secretary Chuck Blazer. Lunn took a photograph of the money and the envelope before returning them. He later gave journalists a digital copy of the photograph for publication.\n\nBahamas-based newspaper \"The Tribune\" praised Sealey and Lunn for not accepting the envelope: \"The attempted bribe was an insult to the whole Caribbean. Those seeking the Caribbean Football Federation's vote obviously saw its members as coming from poor island nations who would never have seen so much money as fell from the brown envelope that was offered them. Many proved to their tempters that poor they might be, but they had pride, they had integrity and although they might never see so much money again, under such tainted conditions they would never stoop so low as to pick it up. As was pointed out, $40,000 for the Caribbean's smaller islands would be the equivalent of several years' salary.\"\n\nOn 11 May 2011, the day after the officials had been given the envelopes, a CFU meeting had been covertly recorded by somebody from within the CFU (Warner later alleged that this Angenie Kanhai, the CFU's general secretary). The video's audio included Warner telling CFU members that Bin Hammam offered to bring \"silver plaques and wooden trophies and bunting and so on\" as a gift for each member and that Warner suggested Bin Hammam should bring cash.\n\nWarner said that he'd told Bin Hammam to pay the CFU directly and the CFU would distribute the cash to its members. Warner also told members that if they were uneasy about accepting the money, that they could return it to him and that \"if you are pious go to a church friends, but the fact is that our business is our business\"\n\nEric Labrador, President of the Puerto Rican Football Federation stated that he accepted the money as it came from a CFU official and not from Bin Hammam. Labrador also stated that he requested a letter from a CFU official to show the Trinidad customs division that the money was for footballing development in Puerto Rico. He reported the incident upon hearing that FIFA did not know about the incident.\n\nCONCACAF general secretary, Chuck Blazer, asked Chicago-based US Federal Prosecutor John Collins of \"Collins and Collins\" to investigate into the events that took place at the Hyatt Regency hotel.\n\nThe interviews were to take place in Miami and be conducted by former FBI director Louis Freeh of the \"Freeh Group\". However, several CFU members were uneasy about being interviewed in Miami and FIFA agreed to interview in the Bahamas. Warner refused to be interviewed: \"I have not received any summons asking me to speak with them [the investigators] nor do I plan to do so\". Warner suspected an American conspiracy as Chuck Blazer, John Collins and Louis Freeh are all American citizens: \"I'm not going to back a complaint made by an American and investigated by Americans and an attempt to put it on American soil because the complaint is from Miami,\"\n\nThe CFU general secretary, 28-year-old Trinidadian Angenie Kanhai, agreed to give evidence at the FIFA hearing. The evidence detailed Warner's instruction to deliver \"gifts\" of sealed envelopes, said to contain cash, to each of the delegates. Several other members of the CFU had refused to do so.\n\nLouis Giskus, president of the Surinaamse Voetbal Bond also stated that he had been given an envelope: \"We went up to a room and were given $40,000 in a brown envelope with the name of Surinam on it,\" Other CFU leaders, reportedly from the Bahamas, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and the Turks and Caicos Islands, also described attempts to give them identical amounts of money.\n\nIn his defence, Bin Hammam claimed that the $40,000 was to cover travel, 'accommodation expenses and \"administrative costs\" of the meeting'. Warner and 12 other member associations claimed that no money was given and that \"the allegations are entirely false\".\n\nTransparency international and the political party 'People's National Movement' (Warner's political opponents) both called for the Trinidad police to launch an investigation into the bribery claims. Trinidadian Police Commissioner Dwayne Gibbs was also expected to investigate the bribery claims. Gibbs stated that as there had been no official complaint, there was nothing to investigate, he stated that if there was an investigation to be made, it would be conducted by the Customs and Excise Division as according to Trinidadian law, only amounts up to $5,000 can be carried out of the country as baggage.\n\nKeith Rowley, leader of the 'People's National Movement', accused Gibbs of sitting on his hands and \"pandering to the political directorate\".\n\nJack Warner resigned from his position as CONCACAF president after being reported to FIFA by the American CONCACAF General Secretary Chuck Blazer. This automatically led to 71-year-old Barbadian Lisle Austin being installed as Acting President.\n\nAustin's first act was to attempt to sack Blazer for his role in the removal of Warner. A statement was published on the CONCACAF website stating that Austin did not have the authority to sack Blazer. In response, Austin quoted article 29 from the CONCACAF Statutes that states, \"The President has the judicial and extrajudicial representation of CONCACAF.\" \n\nAs CONCACAF is a registered not-for-profit company in Barbados, Austin sought an injunction from the Barbadian court which would prevent Chuck Blazer and the executive committee from becoming de facto head of CONCACAF.\n\nThe Bahamanian judge Stephen Isaacs granted an injunction which told CONCACAF to desist \"from interfering with Lisle Austin in the discharge of his duties as acting president\".\n\nAustin also attempted to prevent the CONCACAF using counsel Michael Collins, who had helped put the investigation together.\n\nAustin was banned from CONCACAF office in New York and suspended from administrating in football in the CONCACAF region for doing so. The letter was signed by Collins, whom Austin had sought the removal of.\n\nUndeterred, Austin released a public statement stating that CONCACAF took pride in flouting the court decision. He complained that his suspension shouldn't be official, as \"the presence of four (4) Executive Committee members in the hotel room of Mr. Blazer does not constitute an Executive Committee meeting.\"\n\nAustin was banned by FIFA from administrating in football for one year for attempting to challenge CONCACAF's decision in the Barbadian civil courts. Austin lasted just four days as president of CONCACAF and the CFU.\n\nIn October 2011, the second most influential member of the CFU; CFU's Vice-President and Jamaica Football Federation President Horace Burrell was suspended by FIFA for six months (three months of which were suspended).\n\nWith Burrell's suspension, all three Caribbean members of CONCACAF had been suspended due to the scandal. Honduran Alfredo Hawit was appointed as acting President of CONCACAF, becoming the first non-Caribbean CONCACAF President since 1990.\n\nIn addition to Austin and Burrell's suspensions, another CFU vice-president, Guyana FA's President Colin Klass was suspended for 26 months.\n\nDue to the additional suspension of Klass, and the resignation of Lionel Haven, the Haitian Football Federation President Yves Jean-Bart became acting president of the CFU.\n\nCFU general secretary Angenie Kanhai had been prevented from entering the CFU office (owned by Jack Warner) in Port-of-Spain due to her compliance at the FIFA Ethics Committee hearing. She relocated and worked whilst stationed at the CONCACAF headquarters in Miami, United States, outside of the CFU's remit.\n\nIn an open letter Jack Warner made accusations of conspiracy in an open letter; \"I will also give you detailed accounts of the conspiracy against the CFU by one of its own, who secretly videotaped that meeting for Chuck Blazer and was rewarded with an office in Miami and a higher salary and who unilaterally moved the CFU’s 33-year-old office from Port of Spain to Miami so that every Caribbean official wanting to do football business in the Caribbean had to get a US visa.\"\n\nHarold Taylor, a Trinidadian CFU presidential candidate questioned the thought behind the moving the CFU headquarters to Miami. \"The office of the Secretariat is in the territory where the General Secretary resides. The General Secretary is from Trinidad, so how can you have the Secretariat in Miami? It is unthinkable to have a CFU office in Miami ... too many members in the CFU must get a visa to go to Miami and some of them cannot even get visas and you have at least one permanent member of the Union who can’t even go to the US, so how could you put the office in Miami,\".\n\nKanhai resigned from her position in December 2011: \"I regret to have taken this decision at a time such as now, a period of upheaval and change, but I was forced to face, like all of you, the emotional, psychological and physical toll paid over the last months,\" \n\nAn extraordinary general meeting for the CFU was scheduled for 20 November 2011 in Montego Bay, Jamaica. Four representatives expressed an interest in becoming the CFU president. These were the suspended Horace Burrell (Jamaica), Tony James (Jamaica), former CFU secretary Harold Taylor (Trinidad) and Gordon Derrick (Antigua and Barbuda). It was also suggested that Yves Jean-Bart (Haiti) and Luis Fernandez (Cuba) may express an interest in the position.\n\nAs a result of his Burrell's suspension, it was questioned whether he was eligible to be a candidate for the vote. Burrell's suspension would end on 16 January 2012. The congress meeting was delayed and rescheduled for 15 February 2012, after Burrell's suspension had elapsed. The congress never took place.\n\nHorace Burrell, the front-runner for the presidency position announced that he would not put his name forward for CONCACAF presidency and that he would prefer to become CFU president. He recommended the Cayman Islands Football Association president and his business partner Jeffrey Webb for the CONCACAF role. Derrick was voted in as CFU president in May 2012.\n\nIn 2011, 31 members of the CFU were investigated by the 'FIFA Ethics Committee' due to the cash-for-votes scandal. The outcome of those investigations are shown in the table below.\n\nThe general secretary and whistleblower Chuck Blazer was also investigated by FIFA. An accusation of racism was made, a letter from the Jamaica Football Federation noted that Blazer only told Caribbean officials they were being investigated said that Blazer \"discriminated against Capt Burrell and certain members of the Concacaf through his contemptuous and denigratory words since all the persons who were singled out were of a specific race\". Blazer had also told Burrell he could not become Vice-President of CONCACAF as he was being investigated by FIFA. \n\nIn July 2012, the former Dominican prime minister Patrick John was banned from presiding over the Dominica Football Association for his part in the corruption scandal. A vote was carried out by the Dominican football club association.\n\nIn August 2011, Warner stated that he saw the investigation as an assault on the Caribbean nations asking \"why is FIFA targeting the Caribbean, why is FIFA going after the Caribbean leadership.\"\n\nLater that year, Warner described the rebuilding process as a \"coup d'etat\" and described the investigation as \"unethical\" and \"immoral\". He referred to the CFU members who had worked with FIFA as \"cowardly men and women\". During his time as CFU President, Warner had also acted as a whip since 1983 priding himself on delivering a unified 'Caribbean-bloc' vote, he felt that the CFU were now ready to \"accept the crumbs of the FIFA President when in the very recent past these same men and women used to dine at his table as equals\".\n\nHe said: \"In one fell swoop, the Caribbean football leadership has now undone its struggle of some 33 years and has disrespected the entire region!\"\n\nWarner described FIFA as arrogant and that they would \"ride roughshod over duly appointed officials of both the CFU and the CONCACAF\". He stated that those CFU members complying with FIFA would \"destroy an entire region for their own selfish and self-serving motives\"\n\nOn 29 May 2011, FIFA's ethics committee suspended Bin Hammam temporarily from all football-related activity pending the outcome of a full inquiry into accusations that they offered financial incentives to members of the Caribbean Football Union. Bin Hammam said that he would appeal against the committees decision to provisionally ban him from football related activity, saying that \"The way these proceedings have been conducted is not compliant with any principles of justice.\" He also issued a statement calling for his reinstatement as well as responding to the claims in detail.\n\nOn 23 July 2011, Bin Hammam was banned for life from all football activities by a five-member panel of the FIFA Ethics committee chaired by Petrus Damaseb. The committee found that his actions violated the organization' ethics rules after studying the reports of investigators and hearing the testimony of witnesses from the May 2011 meeting who were also cross examined by Bin Hammam's legal representatives. Bin Hammam appealed against his ban, his appeal was rejected by the FIFA Appeal Committee.\n\nHis ban from football resulted in his loss of position as the President of the Asian Football Confederation, having been replaced by Zhang Jilong of China on a temporary basis, although Zhang Jilong has since announced that he'd like to remain as AFC Presidency.\n\nIn July 2012, the Court of Arbitration for Sport ruled in Mohammed Bin Hamman's favour, CAS referred to it as \"...a situation of 'case not proven,'\" because FIFA didn't have documentation of monies being transferred and thus \"the investigation was not complete or comprehensive enough to fill the gaps in the record\".\n\nThe court added that it \"is not making any sort of affirmative finding of innocence in relation to Mr. Bin Hammam\".\n\nBin Hammam said: \"I'm very happy because I've been able to prove that all the allegations against me were false and were intended to tarnish my reputation.\"\n"}
{"id": "9795315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9795315", "title": "Chicago International Children's Film Festival", "text": "Chicago International Children's Film Festival\n\nIn 1983, Facets Multi-Media founded the Chicago International Children's Film Festival (CICFF), the first competitive festival of films for children in the U.S. The impetus for the Festival came from a need to introduce new, culturally diverse films for children to American children's audiences, and to recognize excellence in children's filmmaking. In addition, the Festival sought to empower children by involving them directly in the jurying process. From its inception, the Festival has had independent juries of children and adult media professionals awarding prizes in multiple categories.\n\nThe Chicago International Children's Film Festival is the largest annual festival of films for children (ages 2–16) in the world, programming 250 films and videos from 40 countries. With 25,000 children, adults and educators and over 100 filmmakers, programmers and celebrities each year, the Festival is one of the only Academy Award-qualifying children's film festivals. The Festival is held every October at various theatrical venues around Chicago, Illinois.\n\nFacets Children's Programs feature year-round screenings for parents and groups, presenting unique multicultural short films for children as catalysts for improving fundamental skills such as literacy, writing, critical thinking and inference. \nDream Screen is a workshop that teaches children to create their own stories and to animate them using drawn and cutout animation. Students from underserved communities participate in all aspects of video production: writing and storyboarding, drawing, art making, and camerawork.\n\n"}
{"id": "2395274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2395274", "title": "Cobalt Networks", "text": "Cobalt Networks\n\nCobalt Networks was a maker of low-cost Linux-based servers and server appliances. The company had 1,900 end user customers in more than 70 countries.\n\nDuring the dot-com bubble, the company had a market capitalization of $6 billion despite only $22 million in annual revenue.\n\nIn 2000, the company was acquired by Sun Microsystems and in December 2003, Sun shut down the Cobalt product line.\n\nCobalt was the most successful web server appliance vendor of its time, and that success motivated the founding of blade server pioneer RLX Technologies.\n\nThe company was founded in 1996 by Vivek Mehra as Cobalt Microserver. In June 1998, the company changed its name to Cobalt Networks, Inc. \n\nThe company introduced products as follows:\n\nOn November 5, 1999, the company became a public company via an initial public offering. Its stock price rose as much as 618% above its $22/share initial price. \n\nOn March 23, 2000, the company announced the acquisition of Chilisoft from Charlie Crystle for 1.15 million shares of Cobalt common stock, then valued at $69.9 million.\n\nIn September 2000, Sun Microsystems announced the acquisition of the company for $2 billion in stock. The acquisition was completed on December 7, 2000.\n\nMany disgruntled engineers left the company in the months following the acquisition.\n\nIn December 2003, Sun shut down the Cobalt product line.\n"}
{"id": "339599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339599", "title": "Confederados", "text": "Confederados\n\nThe Confederados () were some 10,000 to 20,000 Confederate American refugees who fled to Brazil, chiefly to the state of São Paulo, from the Southern United States after the American Civil War. Although many eventually returned to the United States after Reconstruction, some remained and descendants of Confederados can be found in many cities throughout Brazil.\n\nIn 1865 at the end of the American Civil War a substantial number of Southerners left the region; many moved to other parts of the United States, such as the American West, but a few left the country entirely. The most popular destination for emigration was the Brazilian Empire, where slavery remained legal.\n\nEmperor Dom Pedro II wanted to encourage the cultivation of cotton. After the American Civil War, Dom Pedro offered the potential immigrants subsidized transport to Brazil, cheap land, and tax breaks. Former Confederate President Jefferson Davis and General Robert E. Lee advised Southerners against emigration, but many ignored their advice and set out to establish a new life away from the destruction of war and Northern rule under Reconstruction.\n\nMany Southerners who took the Emperor's offer had lost their lands during the war, were unwilling to live under a conquering army, or simply did not expect an improvement in the South's economic position. In addition, Brazil still had slavery (and did not abolish it until 1888). Most of the immigrants were from the states of Alabama, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Georgia, and South Carolina.\n\nNo one has determined how many Americans immigrated to Brazil in the years following the end of the American Civil War. As noted in unpublished research, Betty Antunes de Oliveira found in port records of Rio de Janeiro that some 20,000 Americans entered Brazil from 1865 to 1885. Other researchers have estimated the number at 10,000. An unknown number returned to the United States when conditions in the South changed, as Reconstruction ended and the Jim Crow era began. Most immigrants adopted Brazilian citizenship.\n\nThe immigrants settled in various places, ranging from the urban areas of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo to the northern Amazon region, especially Santarém, and Paraná in the south. Most of the Confederados settled in the area to the north of São Paulo, around present-day Santa Bárbara d'Oeste and Americana. The latter name was derived from \"Vila dos Americanos\", as the natives called it. The first Confederado recorded was Colonel William H. Norris of Alabama, who left the U.S. with 30 Confederate families and arrived in Rio de Janeiro on 27 December 1865. The colony at Santa Bárbara D'Oeste is sometimes called the \"Norris Colony\".\n\nDom Pedro's program was judged a success for both the immigrants and the Brazilian government. The settlers quickly gained a reputation for honesty and hard work. The settlers brought modern agricultural techniques for cotton, as well as new food crops, which spread among native Brazilian farmers. Some dishes of the American South were also adopted in general Brazilian culture, such as chess pie, vinegar pie, southern fried chicken, and Texas caviar (known as in Portuguese).\n\nThe early Confederados continued many elements of American culture, for instance, establishing the first Baptist churches in Brazil. In a change from the South, the Confederados also educated slaves and black freedmen in their new schools. A few newly freed slaves in the United States emigrated alongside their Confederate counterparts and in some cases with their previous owners. One such former slave, Steve Watson, became the administrator of the sawmill of his former owner, Judge Dyer of Texas. When Dyer returned to the US, due to homesickness and financial failure, Dyer deeded his remaining property, the sawmill and 12 acres, to Watson. In the area of the Juquia valley there are many Brazilian families with the surname Vassão, the Portuguese pronunciation of Watson.\n\nThe first generation of \"Confederados\" remained an insular community. As is typical, by the third generation, most of the families had intermarried with native Brazilians or immigrants of other origins. Descendants of the \"Confederados\" increasingly spoke the Portuguese language and identified themselves as Brazilians. As the area around Santa Bárbara d'Oeste and Americana turned to the production of sugar cane and society became more mobile, the \"Confederados\" moved to cities for urban jobs. Today, only a few descendant families still live on land owned by their ancestors. The descendants of the \"Confederados\" are mostly scattered throughout Brazil. They maintain the headquarters of their descendant organization at the Campo center in Santa Bárbara d'Oeste, where there is a cemetery, chapel and memorial.\n\nThe descendants foster a connection with their history through the \"Associação Descendência Americana\" (American Descendants Association), a descendant organization dedicated to preserving their unique mixed culture. The \"Confederados\" also have an annual festival, called the \"Festa Confederada\", dedicated to fund the Campo center. The festival is marked by Confederate flags, Confederate uniforms and hoop skirts, food of the American South with a Brazilian flair, and dances and music popular in the American South during the antebellum period. The descendants maintain affection for the Confederate flag even though they completely identify as Brazilian. Many \"Confederado\" descendants have traveled to the United States at the invitation of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, an American descendants' organization, to visit Civil War battlefields, attend re-enactments, or see where their ancestors lived.\n\nThe Confederate flag in Brazil has not acquired the same political symbolism as it has in the United States. Many descendants of the \"Confederados\" are of mixed race and reflect the varied ethnic groups of Brazilian society in their physical appearance. In the wake of then-Governor Jimmy Carter's visit to the region in 1972, Americana incorporated the Confederate flag into the municipal coat of arms (though the largely Italian-descended population removed it some years later, reasoning that descendants of \"Confederados\" now comprise but a tenth of the municipal population). While in Brazil, Carter also visited the city of Santa Bárbara d'Oeste and the grave at the Campo of a great-uncle of his wife Rosalynn. Her relative was one of the original Confederados. Carter remarked that the Confederados sounded and seemed just like Southerners.\n\nCampo Cemetery with its chapel and memorial, in Santa Bárbara d'Oeste, is a site of memory, as most of the original Confederados from the region were buried there. Because they were Protestant rather than Catholic, they were excluded from the local cemeteries and had to establish their own. The Confederado descendants' community has also contributed to an Immigration Museum at Santa Bárbara d'Oeste to present the history of immigration to Brazil.\n\nYale University history professor Rollin G. Osterweis penned \"Santarem\", a novel about Confederados.\n\nConfederados are also featured in HBO's \"Westworld\" series.\n\n\nBecause of their small numbers, the Confederados have been mostly forgotten as a group. In recent years, some limited studies have been conducted on the influence the Confederado immigration had on Brazil and Latin America as a whole.\n\nStudies include:\n\n"}
{"id": "42738506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42738506", "title": "Consequences of the War of the Pacific", "text": "Consequences of the War of the Pacific\n\nThe War of the Pacific had profound consequences on the involved countries.\n\nAfter the war Chile had obtained military hegemony at the Pacific coast of South America. Chile's expansion was seen with concern across the continent and Chilean diplomats responded to this by fomenting rivalries between Chile's neighbors and other South American countries while promoting friendly relationships between countries with disputes with Chile's neighbors. Examples of this are the Chilean attempts to establish friendly relationships between Ecuador and Colombia, both were countries that had serious territorial disputes with Peru in the Amazon. Military cooperation with Ecuador grew considerably with Chile sending instructors to the military academy in Quito and selling superfluous arms and munitions to Ecuador. Despite Chile's over-all good relations with Ecuador both countries had a minor diplomatic crisis resulting from the capture of the Peruvian torpedo boat \"Alay\" in Ecuadorian territorial waters during the war. Argentina, the only country that didn't have war with Chile for border proximity, also had tensions with Chile since, but unlike Peru and Bolivia, Argentina successfully maintained status quo with Chile and remained not involved, despite how they almost fought a war over the Falklands War controversies.\n\nOnly in 2007 the Chilean government returned almost 4,000 books to Peru's national library, more than a century after they were taken by Chilean soldiers in hopes that the return of the books may go some way to improving the two nations’ relations.\n\nAs the victor and possessor of a new coastal territory following the War of the Pacific, Chile benefited by gaining a lucrative territory with significant mineral income. The national treasury grew by 900 percent between 1879 and 1902, due to taxes coming from the newly acquired lands. British involvement and control of the nitrate industry rose significantly, but from 1901 to 1921 Chilean ownership increased from 15% to 51%. The growth of Chilean economy sustained in its saltpetre monopoly meant, compared to the previous growth cycle (1832–1873), that the economy became less diversified and overly dependent on a single natural resource. In addition the Chilean nitrate, used world-wide as fertilizer, was sensitive to economic downturns as farmers made cuts on fertilizer use one of their earliest economic measures in the face of economic decline. It has been questioned on whether the nitrate wealth conquered in the War of the Pacific was a resource curse or not. During the Nitrate Epoch the government increased public spending but was however accused of squandering money.\n\nHistorical and current anti-Chilean resentiment in Bolivia, Peru and Argentina was caused by the Chilean expansionism that took place during the 19th century. The War of the Pacific contributed decisively to it in the case of the first two countries.\n\nIn Bolivia, a common political discourse attributes that country's underdevelopment to its loss of seaports in the War of the Pacific becoming a landlocked country. Bolivia lost its Litoral Department and its outlet to the Pacific Ocean, following that war. Currently Chile's huge copper vein in the Atacama Desert—which makes Chile the largest copper exporter in the world—is held in the lands claimed by Bolivia; the same lands lost during the war.\n\nIn Peru, a strong anti-Chilean sentiment exists due to losing \"a large chunk of its southern territory to Chile\" in the War of the Pacific. Peru lost its provinces of Tarapaca and Arica, and then suffered the indignity of having its capital, Lima, be not only occupied by Chile at the end of the war, but essentially ransacked.\n\nFor Argentina, since they didn't get involved in the conflict, and were also on the run to colonize the less inhabitated South, Chile's victory in the conflict stemmed tensions that Chile was trying to take land from the hand of the Argentines. Although this never happened and both finalized their border, the two countries remained belligerents, and even almost fought a war in 1982. On the other side, Argentina's unsupportive action for Bolivia and Peru also made their relationships very tense, and there is a sense of distrust towards Argentina among many Peruvians and Bolivians.\n\nDuring and after the war there was a rise of racial and national superiority ideas among the Chilean ruling class. Chilean historian Gonzalo Bulnes (son of president Manuel Bulnes) once wrote, \"What defeated Peru was the superiority of a race and of a history\". During the occupation of Tacna and Arica (1884–1929) the Peruvian people and nation were treated in racist and denigrating terms by the Chilean press. During the war Peruvians were disrespectfully referred to as \"cholos\" (a slur for persons of mixed European and non-European ancestry) by Chilean officers.\n\nAfter the occupation of Lima Chile diverted part of its war efforts to crush Mapuche resistance in the south. Chilean troops coming from Peru entered Araucanía where they in 1881 defeated the last major Mapuche uprising. Chile's newly acquired Aymara population was seen after the war as a \"foreign element\" contrasting with the also newly conquered Mapuches who were seen as \"primordial\" Chileans.\n\nIn the aftermath of the war, the indigenous populations of Peru became scapegoats in the narratives of Peruvian \"criollo\" elites, exemplified in the writing of Ricardo Palma:\n\n\"The principal cause of the great defeat is that the majority of Peru is composed of that wretched and degraded race that we once attempted to dignify and ennoble. The Indian lacks patriotic sense; he is born enemy of the white and of the man of the coast. It makes no difference to him whether he is a Chilean or a Turk. To educate the Indian and to inspire him a feeling for patriotism will not be the task of our institutions, but of the ages.\"\n\nBecause the Chinese supported Chile in the conflict, it had stemmed a sense of Sinophobia in Peru, the first of its kind ever existed in Latin America. Armed indigenous peasants sacked and occupied haciendas of landed elite criollo \"collaborationists\" in the central Sierra – majority of them were of ethnic Chinese descent, while indigenous and mestizo Peruvians murdered Chinese shopkeepers in Lima in response to this Chinese coolies revolted and even joined the Chilean Army. Even in 20th century, memory of Chinese supports for Chile was so deep that Manuel A. Odría, once dictator of Peru, issued ban against Chinese immigration as a punishment for their betrayal. Although today, Sinophobia has been lesser relevant and the Chinese are widely accepted as Peruvian citizens, distrustful of China and Chinese still remains.\n\nThe War of the Pacific also sparked an indigenous peasant guerrilla movement throughout the central Sierra against Chileans and collaborationist landlords. In 1884 Cáceres turned against his former guerrilla allies in order to defend the old order. In 1886 and 1888 the Cáceres sent troops to the central sierra to disarm the peasants. The lack of rule of law in central sierra was such that, in one particular case, a landowner was only able to recover his occupied estate in 1902 after a massive mobilization of military, police and gunmen.\n\nMiguel Grau became an important figure in Peru due to his alleged gallantry during the conflict, especially his treatment of Prat's family and rescue of Chilean sailors in Iquique, which gained him recognition as the \"Caballero de los Mares\" (\"Gentleman of the Seas\").\n\nWith the loss of sovereign access to the Pacific ocean in mind the 1904 Treaty of Peace and Friendship granted Bolivia the right to tax-free transport of goods, and duty-free access to northern Chilean ports. It also obliged the Chilean government to build two rail-lines linking La Paz to Antofagasta and Arica.\n\nDespite these concessions, the loss of the \"Litoral\" (the coast) remains a deeply emotional and political issue for Bolivians, as was particularly evident during the 2003 natural gas riots. Undeterred by the seaport concessions granted to Bolivia via the 1904 treaty popular belief in Bolivia still see their problems attributed to its landlocked condition; getting a sovereign piece of the seacoast via Chilean land is often seen as the solution to their problems. Numerous Bolivian presidents pressured Chile for sovereign access to the sea. Diplomatic relations with Chile were severed on March 17, 1978, in spite of considerable commercial ties. The leading Bolivian newspaper \"El Diario\" featured at least a weekly editorial on the subject, and the Bolivian people annually celebrated a patriotic \"Dia del Mar\" (Day of the Sea) to remember the crippling loss.\n\nDuring the war Chile dropped its claims on more than of Patagonia in the 1881 Chile/Argentina treaty, to ensure Argentina's neutrality. After the war, the Puna de Atacama dispute grew until 1899, since both Chile and Argentina claimed former Bolivian territories. On August 28, 1929, Chile returned the province of Tacna to Peru. In 1999, Chile and Peru at last agreed to fully implement the Treaty of Lima (1929), providing Peru with a port in Arica.\n\nAccording to Bruce W. Farcau, \"in Peru, the wounds run less deep than in neighboring Bolivia\". After the War of the Pacific, Peru was left without saltpeter production, the Chilean controlled production decreased to 15%, and production controlled by British investors rose to 55%. According to military historian Robert L. Scheina, the Chilean plunder of Peruvian national literary and art treasures contributed to \"demands of revenge among Peruvians for decades.\" Scholar Brooke Larson pointed out that the War of the Pacific was the \"first time since independence wars\" that \"Peru was invaded, occupied and pillaged by a foreign army\" and that \"no other Andean republic experienced such a costly and humiliating defeat as Peru did in the hands of Chile\".\n\nThe war and post-war period was one of profound political and social instability for Peru. The war shook the whole social order of Peru: armed indigenous peasants sacked and occupied haciendas of landed elite criollo \"collaborationists\" in the central Sierra, Chinese coolies revolted and even joined the Chilean Army, indigenous and mestizo Peruvians murdered Chinese shopkeepers in Lima, African slaves rose against their masters and fought equally the Chinese, Peruvian mobs sacked Chiclayo at the same time different criollo elite remained deeply divided in opposing camps. The fear of disorder, opposing factions and armed peasants was for many Peruvians larger than that of the Chilean invaders. In some cases, the delegations of European countries and the United States provided safety during riots and persecutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "37589387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37589387", "title": "Cornish language revival", "text": "Cornish language revival\n\nThe Cornish language revival () is an ongoing process to revive the use of the Cornish language of Cornwall, United Kingdom. The Cornish language's disappearance began to hasten during the 13th century, but its decline began with the Anglo-Saxon invasions of the 4th and 5th centuries. The last reported person to have full knowledge of a traditional form of Cornish, John Davey, died in 1891. The revival movement started in the late 19th century as a result of antiquarian and academic interest in the language, which was already extinct, and also as a result of the Celtic revival movement. In 2009, UNESCO changed its classification of Cornish from \"extinct\" to \"critically endangered\", seen as a milestone for the revival of the language.\n\nDuring the 19th century the Cornish language was the subject of antiquarian interest and a number of lectures were given on the subject and pamphlets on it were published. In 1904, the Celtic language scholar and Cornish cultural activist Henry Jenner published \"A Handbook of the Cornish Language\". The publication of this book is often considered to be the start of the current revival movement. The spelling in this book was based on that used when Cornish was last a community language in the 18th century.\n\nThe first project to codify Cornish spelling and provide a regular orthography for the revived language was that of Robert Morton Nance who outlined his work in \"Cornish for All\" in 1929. Unlike the Late Cornish-based work of Jenner, Nance's orthography, called Unified Cornish, was based mainly on the Middle Cornish of the 14th and 15th centuries. Nance believed that this period represented a high point for Cornish literature. As well as presenting a standardised spelling system, Nance also extended the attested vocabulary with forms based largely on Breton and Welsh, and published a dictionary of Unified Cornish in 1938. Nance's purist approach favoured older 'Celtic' forms rather than the historically more recent forms deriving from Middle and Early Modern English.\n\nNance's work became the basis of revived Cornish and his orthography was the only one in use for most of the 20th century. However, as the focus shifted from written to spoken Cornish, Nance's stiff, archaic formulation of the language seemed less suitable for a spoken revival. Also, Nance's phonology lacked some distinctions which later research showed must have existed in traditional Cornish. Unified Cornish is still in use by some speakers who, while acknowledging its shortcomings, feel it has served well for the first decades of the revival.\n\nIn 1986, in response to dissatisfaction with Unified Cornish, Ken George undertook a study of the sounds of Cornish and devised a new orthography, \"Kernewek Kemmyn\" or \"Common Cornish\", based on his research. Like Unified Cornish, Kernewek Kemmyn retained a Middle Cornish base but implemented an orthography that aspired to be as phonemic as possible. George argued that this much closer relationship between sounds and writing would make Cornish much easier to teach and learn.\n\nIn 1987, after one year of discussion, the Cornish Language Board agreed to adopt it. Its adoption by the Cornish Language Board caused a division in the Cornish language community, especially since people had been using Nance's old system for many years and were unfamiliar with the new one. While it was adopted by a majority of Cornish speakers (various estimates put it at around 55–80%), it came under fierce criticism by academic linguists for its phonological base, as well as those who found its novel orthography too different from traditional Cornish spelling conventions.\n\nIn 1995, \"Kernewek Kemmyn\" was itself challenged by Nicholas Williams who in his book \"Cornish Today\" listed 26 major flaws in \"Kernewek Kemmyn\". As an alternative, Williams devised and proposed a revision of Unified Cornish, called Unified Cornish Revised (or UCR). UCR built on Unified Cornish, making the spellings regular while keeping as close as possible to the orthographic practices of the medieval scribes. In common with Kernewek Kemmyn, UCR made use of Tudor and Late Cornish prose materials unavailable to Nance. A comprehensive English-Cornish dictionary of Unified Cornish Revised was published in 2000 and sold enough copies to merit a second edition. A response to the criticisms in \"Cornish Today\" appeared soon after in \"Kernewek Kemmyn – Cornish for the Twenty First Century\" by Ken George and Paul Dunbar. A counter-reply to the latter appeared in 2007.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Richard Gendall, who had worked with Nance, published a new system based on the works of the later Cornish writers of the 17th and 18th centuries, just before to the language died out. This variety, called Modern Cornish, also known as Late Cornish, uses later, somewhat simpler grammatical constructions and a vocabulary and spelling that was more influenced by English. The orthography has undergone a number of changes. The main body promoting Modern Cornish is Cussel an Tavas Kernuak.\n\nIn practice these different written forms did not prevent Cornish speakers from communicating with each other effectively. However, the existence of multiple orthographies was unsustainable with regards to using the language in education and public life, as no single orthography had ever achieved a wide consensus. Following the recognition in 2002 of Cornish under Part II of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, and the subsequent establishment of the Cornish Language Partnership, the need for consensus became more urgent. In response to this, the Partnership initiated a process to agree on a standard form for use in education and public life.\n\nIn 2007 an independent Cornish Language Commission consisting of sociolinguists and linguists from outside of Cornwall was formed to review the four existing forms (Unified, UCR, Late Cornish and Kemmyn) and consider whether any of these existing orthographies might be suitable for adoption as a standard form of Cornish, or whether a new fifth form should be adopted. Two groups made proposals of compromise orthographies:\n\nThe SWF process eventually decided that the existing orthographies were too contentious to be considered and that a new compromise orthography that all groups could support was needed.\n\nOn 9 May 2008, the Cornish Language Partnership met with the specification for the Standard Written Form as the main item on the agenda. All four Cornish language groups, Unified Cornish, Unified Cornish Revised, Kernewek Kemmyn and Modern Cornish were represented at this meeting. Reactions to the proposed orthography were mixed from the various language groups, Kowethas an Yeth Kernewek, Cussel an Tavaz Kernûak, Kesva an Taves Kernewek and Agan Tavas, but the majority wanted resolution and acceptance. The Cornish Language Partnership said that it would 'create an opportunity to break down barriers and the agreement marked a significant stepping stone in the Cornish language'.\n\nThe vote to ratify the SWF was carried and on 19 May 2008 it was announced that the orthography had been agreed on. Eric Brooke, chairman of the Cornish Language Partnership, said: \"This marks a significant stepping-stone in the development of the Cornish language. In time this step will allow the Cornish language to move forward to become part of the lives of all in Cornwall.\" The fourth and final Standard Written Form draft was generated on 30 May 2008.\n\nOn 17 June 2009, the bards of the Gorseth Kernow, under the leadership of Grand Bard Vanessa Beeman adopted, by overwhelming majority and after two decades of debate, to adopt the SWF for their ceremonies and correspondence. From the earliest days under Grand Bards Henry Jenner and Morton Nance, Unified Cornish had been used for the Gorseth ceremony.\n\n\"Kernowek Standard\" (Standard Cornish) is a proposed set of revisions to the SWF. It is based on the initial proposal (called \"Kernowak Standard\" and now designated KS1) for the SWF, developed by a group called UdnFormScrefys. After the publication of the SWF specification, members of this group established a new group, Spellyans, to identify shortcomings in the SWF and propose solutions for consideration when the SWF is reviewed in 2013. The orthography resulting from the application of these revisions, Kernowek Standard, has been used in a number of books, including an edition of the Bible and a comprehensive grammar, \"Desky Kernowek\".\n\nThis table compares the spelling of some Cornish words in different orthographies (Unified Cornish, Unified Cornish Revised, Kernewek Kemmyn, Revived Late Cornish, the Standard Written Form, and Kernowek Standard).\n"}
{"id": "32432721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32432721", "title": "Cottrill Opera House", "text": "Cottrill Opera House\n\nCottrill Opera House, known since 1915 as Sutton's Opera House or Sutton Theater, is a historic vaudeville and movie theater building in Thomas, Tucker County, West Virginia. It was built in 1902, and is a rectangular brick building with a high front that appears to be four stories tall. The interior is dominated by a large auditorium with balcony seating. The building is being restored for use as a live performance theater.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "51602723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51602723", "title": "Couple in The Cage: Two Undiscovered Amerindians Visit the West", "text": "Couple in The Cage: Two Undiscovered Amerindians Visit the West\n\nThe Couple in a Cage: Two Amerindians Visit the West was a 1992-1993 performance art piece by artists Guillermo Gómez-Peña and Coco Fusco for their exhibition \"The Year of the White Bear and Two Undiscovered Amerindians Visit the West--\"which toured five countries and was performing in nine different locations. First performed in honor of the quincentenary anniversary of Christopher Columbus' arrival to the Americas, the work sought to make visible the history of abuse, captivity and exploitation of indigenous peoples. Their inspiration drew heavily upon the history of othering, the human zoo, and life stories of historical figures such as Ota Benga and Sarah Baartman—beginning with the kidnapping of Arawak Indian by Columbus and his men to be displayed in the Spanish Court.\n\nPresenting themselves as previously undiscovered Amerindians from the fictional uncolonized island of Guatinau, Fusco and Gómez-Peña presented a fabricated Encyclopædia Britannica entry on \"Amerindians\" and a corresponding map of the Gulf of Mexico island of Guatinau as part of the staging of their performance. This information was further supplemented both by plaques or pedestals alluding to the history of peoples placed on exhibit over the last 500 years. Other texts provided also narrated their role as volunteer representatives of Guatinau, detailing the daily life activities of the Amerindians, and validating the habitat of the cage and its contents as their natural habitat.\n\nAided by the students of the University of California-Irvine, the artists erected a cage and filled it with a ghetto blaster, candles, Polaroid camera and film, bed pans, ritual artifacts, spray paint, body paint, a television and hammock. Students and institutional staff members served as guards and assistants to the caged couple: feeding them, educating the audience about their origins, and assisting audience members in taking commemorative Polaroids with the caged performers. Those acting as docents or guards also were responsible for the daily disposal of cage waste, feeding the performers, and escorting them to the bathroom on a leash.\n\nGómez-Peña and Fusco were outfitted in primitive costumes: designer sunglasses, a cheetah luchador mask, banda boots, face paint, long wigs, grass skirt, necklaces, a leopard bikini top and Converse low sneakers.\n\nThe caged artists performed \"traditional\" Guatinau tasks: watching television, sewing voodoo dolls, using a laptop computer, pacing back and forth, eating or being fed fruit, and drinking bottled water and Coca-Cola Classic.\n\nIn stark contrast to works from their own practices and from other collaborations, the artists remained silent during the performances, apart from Gómez-Peña, who would recite traditional stories in a fictitious nonsensical language in return for donations. By the last performance, these \"traditional stories\" chronicled the Guatinaui tour of the West, with the nonsensical outpouring peppered with recognizable words like \"Chicago\", \"Mexico\", \"Minnesota\" and \"America\".\n\nAs \"Take One\" of \"The Year of the White Bear,\" held at the Fine Arts Gallery of UC-Irvine from February 24 - March 4, 1992, with performances held all day March 1, 2, 3 with \"ritual events\" at 7:30 on the 3rd and 4th Before the performance the artists were contacted by the Health Department of UC-Irvine due to the misunderstanding that they were anthropologists bringing in \"real aborigines\" whose excrement could be hazardous. One woman went so far as to ask for a rubber glove in order to fondle Gómez-Peña in a sexual manner. Approximately 1,000 individuals saw these performances.\n\nSelected for the Edge Biennial, the artists took their performance to a much more public context in Columbus Plaza of May 1992. Edge '92, taking place in both London and Madrid, was planned as a quincentennial celebration of Madrid as a hub of European culture. Spanish businessmen reverted to childhood, mocking the performers with ape noises, while school children compared the performers to the wax Arawak figures housed in the museum across the street. Teenagers also attempted to burn Gómez-Peña while handing him a beer bottle filled with urine. Men donated to see Fusco dance, explaining that they wanted to see her breasts. More than half of the people believed the performance to be a real display of Amerindians.\n\nThree days after Madrid, the pair performed in Covent Gardens. Covent Gardens as a venue has a history as a location where people of color have been exhibited, starting from the 17th century through to the 18th century. It was even the venue for the play \"Omai\", inspired by the Omai, a Tahitian native who embodied the idea of the noble savage. During the performance a group of neo-nazis attempted to rattle the cage.\n\nExhibited as part of their show \"The Year of the White Bear\", the performance took place outside in the Sculpture Garden of the Walker Art Center in September 1992. 15,000 visitors saw the performance and exhibition. Many audience members believed the performance to be real. This is the first of two instances in which the work was clearly presented in an art context.\n\nOn view from October 17-18th, 1992, the performance reached approximately 120,000 visitors over a two-day period. The performance confused many museum goers who questioned the authenticity, and who were even more perplexed when docents continued to keep up the performance. One alarmed attendee even called the Humane Society to seek assistance in freeing the caged couple.\n\nIn December 1992 the artists performed at the Australian Museum of Natural History, with approximately 5,000 visitors; staff members here became uneasy after Japanese tourists left the museum deeply disturbed, fearing this would result in negative press for the museum. One woman sat down with her young child to loudly apologize to the performers for having \"taken [their] land away\".\n\nFrom January 16–17, 1993 Gómez-Peña and Fusco performed at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, aided by Field Museum \"docents\" played by Paula Killen, Claire DeCoster and Pablo Helguera. Following a script written by the artists, DeCoster and Helguera encouraged the audience's questions and analysis while members of the museum's education department surveyed visitors. This was a devastating experience for the docents, as they witnessed the large majority of the audience persistently ignore the plaques on either side of the cage and believe the Amerindians to be real. Approximately 5,000 people attended, with the Field Museum receiving 48 phone calls regarding the misinformation the public believed was due to the Field Museum.\n\n\"The Couple in the Cage: Two Undiscovered Amerindians Visit the West\" ended its tour as a selection of the 1993 Whitney Biennial, an exhibition noted to be one of the most consciousness-raising in the history of the Biennial. In addition to the traditional Guatinaui tasks Gómez-Peña and Fusco consistently performed, the artists offered views of Gómez-Peña's genitals for donations of five dollars a view, and a native dance to hip hop music for fifty cents. This was the one of the two instances in which the work was clearly presented and contextualized as artwork during the entirety of its tour. Despite this, some attendees assumed the artists were actors performing in a work by an artist.\n\nCriticism for \"The Couple in a Cage\" varied upon the location of the presentation, though what alarmed the artists most was the substantial public belief that their performances were reality and the substantial number of critics who critiqued their work as unethical due to its misrepresentation, rather than to fully discuss its cultural and institutional critique.\n\nDespite a substantial number of intellectuals remaining critical towards the misinformation of the performances, performative scholar Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett points out that Gómez-Peña's and Fusco's were not the first to fictionalize ethnography, but rather participate inside a previously established history.\n\nThe performance gained further recognition and criticism through its participation in the 1993 Whitney Biennial; despite reflecting the political times, art critic Roberta Smith disparaged that the exhibition lost sight of art as a visual experience in its motivations to further a cause.\n\nIn stark contrast to the Western response, people of color responded either in distaste due to the inauthenticity of the performance, discomfort in identifying with the experience, or solidarity in its symbolism: \"One Pueblo elder from Arizona who saw us in the Smithsonian went so far as to say that our display was more \"real\" than any other statement about the condition of Native peoples in the Museum.\" -Coco Fusco, \"The Other History of Intercultural Performance\"\n"}
{"id": "37925700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37925700", "title": "Cyberattack", "text": "Cyberattack\n\nIn computers and computer networks an attack is any attempt to expose, alter, disable, destroy, steal or gain unauthorized access to or make unauthorized use of an Asset. A cyberattack is any type of offensive maneuver that targets computer information systems, infrastructures, computer networks, or personal computer devices. Depending on context, cyberattacks can be labeled as a cyber campaign, cyberwarfare or cyberterrorism. A cyberattack can be employed by nation-states, individuals, groups, society or organizations. A cyberattack may originate from an anonymous source. \n\nA cyberattack may steal, alter, or destroy a specified target by hacking into a susceptible system. Cyberattacks can range from installing spyware on a personal computer to attempting to destroy the infrastructure of entire nations. Legal experts are seeking to limit the use of the term to incidents causing physical damage, distinguishing it from the more routine data breaches and broader hacking activities.\n\nCyberattacks have become increasingly sophisticated and dangerous.\n\nUser behavior analytics and SIEM can be used to help prevent these attacks.\n\nSince the late 1980s cyberattacks have evolved several times to use innovations in information technology as vectors for committing cybercrimes. In recent years, the scale and robustness of cyberattacks has increased rapidly, as observed by the World Economic Forum in its 2018 report: \"Offensive cyber capabilities are developing more rapidly than our ability to deal with hostile incidents.\"\n\nIn May 2000, the Internet Engineering Task Force defined attack in RFC 2828 as:\n\nCNSS Instruction No. 4009 dated 26 April 2010 by Committee on National Security Systems of United States of America defines an attack as:\n\nThe increasing dependencies of modern society on information and computers networks (both in private and public sectors, including military) has led to new terms like \"cyber attack\" and \"cyberwarfare\".\n\nCNSS Instruction No. 4009 define a \"cyber attack\" as:\n\nIn the first six months of 2017, two billion data records were stolen or impacted by cyberattacks, and ransomware payments reached , double that in 2016.\n\nCyberwarfare utilizes techniques of defending and attacking information and computer networks that inhabit cyberspace, often through a prolonged cyber campaign or series of related campaigns. It denies an opponent's ability to do the same, while employing technological instruments of war to attack an opponent's critical computer systems. Cyberterrorism, on the other hand, is \"the use of computer network tools to shut down critical national infrastructures (such as energy, transportation, government operations) or to coerce or intimidate a government or civilian population\". That means the end result of both cyberwarfare and cyberterrorism is the same, to damage critical infrastructures and computer systems linked together within the confines of cyberspace.\n\nThree factors contribute to why cyber-attacks are launched against a state or an individual: the fear factor, spectacularity factor, and vulnerability factor.\n\nThe spectacularity factor is a measure of the actual damage achieved by an attack, meaning that the attack creates direct losses (usually loss of availability or loss of income) and garners negative publicity. On February 8, 2000, a Denial of Service attack severely reduced traffic to many major sites, including Amazon, Buy.com, CNN, and eBay (the attack continued to affect still other sites the next day). Amazon reportedly estimated the loss of business at $600,000.\n\nVulnerability factor exploits how vulnerable an organization or government establishment is to cyber-attacks. An organization can be vulnerable to a denial of service attack, and a government establishment can be defaced on a web page. A computer network attack disrupts the integrity or authenticity of data, usually through malicious code that alters program logic that controls data, leading to errors in output.\n\nProfessional hackers, either working on their own or employed by the government or military service, can find computer systems with vulnerabilities lacking the appropriate security software. Once found, they can infect systems with malicious code and then remotely control the system or computer by sending commands to view content or to disrupt other computers. There needs to be a pre-existing system flaw within the computer such as no antivirus protection or faulty system configuration for the viral code to work. Many professional hackers will promote themselves to cyberterrorists where a new set of rules govern their actions. Cyberterrorists have premeditated plans and their attacks are not born of rage. They need to develop their plans step-by-step and acquire the appropriate software to carry out an attack. They usually have political agendas, targeting political structures. Cyber terrorists are hackers with a political motivation, their attacks can impact political structure through this corruption and destruction. They also target civilians, civilian interests and civilian installations. As previously stated cyberterrorists attack persons or property and cause enough harm to generate fear.\n\nAn attack can be \"active\" or \"passive\".\n\nAn attack can be perpetrated by an \"insider\" or from\" outside\" the organization;\n\nThe term \"attack\" relates to some other basic security terms as shown in the following diagram:\n\nA resource (both physical or logical), called an asset, can have one or more vulnerabilities that can be exploited by a threat agent in a threat action. As a result, the confidentiality, integrity or availability of resources may be compromised. Potentially, the damage may extend to resources in addition to the one initially identified as vulnerable, including further resources of the organization, and the resources of other involved parties (customers, suppliers).\n\nThe so-called CIA triad is the basis of information security.\n\nThe attack can be \"active\" when it attempts to alter system resources or affect their operation: so it compromises integrity or availability. A \"passive attack\" attempts to learn or make use of information from the system but does not affect system resources: so it compromises confidentiality.\n\nA threat is a potential for violation of security, which exists when there is a circumstance, capability, action, or event that could breach security and cause harm. That is, a threat is a possible danger that might exploit a vulnerability. A threat can be either \"intentional\" (i.e., intelligent; e.g., an individual cracker or a criminal organization) or \"accidental\" (e.g., the possibility of a computer malfunctioning, or the possibility of an \"act of God\" such as an earthquake, a fire, or a tornado).\n\nA set of policies concerned with information security management, the information security management systems (ISMS), has been developed to manage, according to risk management principles, the countermeasures in order to accomplish to a security strategy set up following rules and regulations applicable in a country.\n\nAn attack should led to a \"security incident\" i.e. a \"security event\" that involves a \"security violation\". In other words, a security-relevant system event in which the system's security policy is disobeyed or otherwise breached.\n\nThe overall picture represents the risk factors of the risk scenario.\n\nAn organization should make steps to detect, classify and manage security incidents. The first logical step is to set up an incident response plan and eventually a computer emergency response team.\n\nIn order to detect attacks, a number of countermeasures can be set up at organizational, procedural and technical levels. Computer emergency response team, information technology security audit and intrusion detection system are example of these.\n\nAn attack usually is perpetrated by someone with bad intentions: black hatted attacks falls in this category, while other perform penetration testing on an organization information system to find out if all foreseen controls are in place.\n\nThe attacks can be classified according to their origin: i.e. if it is conducted using one or more computers: in the last case is called a distributed attack. Botnets are used to conduct distributed attacks.\n\nOther classifications are according to the procedures used or the type of vulnerabilities exploited: attacks can be concentrated on network mechanisms or host features.\n\nSome attacks are physical: i.e. theft or damage of computers and other equipment. Others are attempts to force changes in the logic used by computers or network protocols in order to achieve unforeseen (by the original designer) result but useful for the attacker. Software used to for logical attacks on computers is called malware.\n\nThe following is a partial short list of attacks:\n\n\nIn detail, there are a number of techniques to utilize in cyber-attacks and a variety of ways to administer them to individuals or establishments on a broader scale. Attacks are broken down into two categories: syntactic attacks and semantic attacks. Syntactic attacks are straightforward; it is considered malicious software which includes viruses, worms, and Trojan horses.\n\nA virus is a self-replicating program that can attach itself to another program or file in order to reproduce. The virus can hide in unlikely locations in the memory of a computer system and attach itself to whatever file it sees fit to execute its code. It can also change its digital footprint each time it replicates making it harder to track down in the computer.\n\nA worm does not need another file or program to copy itself; it is a self-sustaining running program. Worms replicate over a network using protocols. The latest incarnation of worms make use of known vulnerabilities in systems to penetrate, execute their code, and replicate to other systems such as the Code Red II worm that infected more than 259 000 systems in less than 14 hours. On a much larger scale, worms can be designed for industrial espionage to monitor and collect server and traffic activities then transmit it back to its creator.\n\nA Trojan horse is designed to perform legitimate tasks but it also performs unknown and unwanted activity. It can be the basis of many viruses and worms installing onto the computer as keyboard loggers and backdoor software. In a commercial sense, Trojans can be imbedded in trial versions of software and can gather additional intelligence about the target without the person even knowing it happening. All three of these are likely to attack an individual and establishment through emails, web browsers, chat clients, remote software, and updates.\n\nSemantic attack is the modification and dissemination of correct and incorrect information. Information modified could have been done without the use of computers even though new opportunities can be found by using them. To set someone into the wrong direction or to cover your tracks, the dissemination of incorrect information can be utilized.\n\nThere were two such instances between India and Pakistan that involved cyberspace conflicts, started in 1990s. Earlier cyber attacks came to known as early as in 1999. Since then, India and Pakistan were engaged in a long-term dispute over Kashmir which moved into cyberspace. Historical accounts indicated that each country's hackers have been repeatedly involved in attacking each other's computing database system. The number of attacks has grown yearly: 45 in 1999, 133 in 2000, 275 by the end of August 2001. In 2010, Indian hackers laid a cyber attack at least 36 government database websites going by the name \"Indian Cyber Army\". In 2013, Indian hackers hacked the official website of Election Commission of Pakistan in an attempt to retrieve sensitive database information. In retaliation, Pakistani hackers, calling themselves \"True Cyber Army\" hacked and defaced ~1,059 websites of Indian election bodies.\n\nAccording to the media, Pakistan's has been working on effective cyber security system, in a program called the \"Cyber Secure Pakistan\" (CSP). The program was launched in April 2013 by Pakistan Information Security Association and the program as expanded to country's universities.\n\nWithin cyberwarfare, the individual must recognize the state actors involved in committing these cyber-attacks against one another. The two predominant players that will be discussed is the age-old comparison of East versus West, China's cyber capabilities compared to United States' capabilities. There are many other state and non-state actors involved in cyberwarfare, such as Russia, Iran, Iraq, and Al Qaeda; since China and the U.S. are leading the foreground in cyberwarfare capabilities, they will be the only two state actors discussed.\n\nBut in Q2 2013, Akamai Technologies reported that Indonesia toppled China with portion 38 percent of cyber attack, a high increase from 21 percent portion in previous quarter. China set 33 percent and US set at 6.9 percent. 79 percent of attack came from Asia Pacific region. Indonesia dominated the attacking to ports 80 and 443 by about 90 percent.\n\nChina's People's Liberation Army (PLA) has developed a strategy called \"Integrated Network Electronic Warfare\" which guides computer network operations and cyberwarfare tools. This strategy helps link together network warfare tools and electronic warfare weapons against an opponent's information systems during conflict. They believe the fundamentals for achieving success is about seizing control of an opponent's information flow and establishing information dominance. \"The Science of Military\" and \"The Science of Campaigns\" both identify enemy logistics systems networks as the highest priority for cyber-attacks and states that cyberwarfare must mark the start if a campaign, used properly, can enable overall operational success. Focusing on attacking the opponent's infrastructure to disrupt transmissions and processes of information that dictate decision-making operations, the PLA would secure cyber dominance over their adversary. The predominant techniques that would be utilized during a conflict to gain the upper hand are as follows, the PLA would strike with electronic jammers, electronic deception and suppression techniques to interrupt the transfer processes of information. They would launch virus attacks or hacking techniques to sabotage information processes, all in the hopes of destroying enemy information platforms and facilities. The PLA's \"Science of Campaigns\" noted that one role for cyberwarfare is to create windows of opportunity for other forces to operate without detection or with a lowered risk of counterattack by exploiting the enemy's periods of \"blindness\", \"deafness\" or \"paralysis\" created by cyber-attacks. That is one of the main focal points of cyberwarefare, to be able to weaken your enemy to the full extent possible so that your physical offensive will have a higher percentage of success.\n\nThe PLA conduct regular training exercises in a variety of environments emphasizing the use of cyberwarfare tactics and techniques in countering such tactics if it is employed against them. Faculty research has been focusing on designs for rootkit usage and detection for their Kylin Operating System which helps to further train these individuals' cyberwarfare techniques. China perceives cyberwarfare as a deterrent to nuclear weapons, possessing the ability for greater precision, leaving fewer casualties, and allowing for long ranged attacks.\n\nIn the West, the United States provides a different \"tone of voice\" when cyberwarfare is on the tip of everyone's tongue. The United States provides security plans strictly in the response to cyberwarfare, basically going on the defensive when they are being attacked by devious cyber methods. In the U.S., the responsibility of cybersecurity is divided between the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Department of Defense. In recent years, a new department was created to specifically tend to cyber threats, this department is known as Cyber Command. Cyber Command is a military subcommand under US Strategic Command and is responsible for dealing with threats to the military cyber infrastructure. Cyber Command's service elements include Army Forces Cyber Command, the Twenty-fourth Air Force, Fleet Cyber Command and Marine Forces Cyber Command. It ensures that the President can navigate and control information systems and that he also has military options available when defense of the nation needs to be enacted in cyberspace. Individuals at Cyber Command must pay attention to state and non-state actors who are developing cyberwarfare capabilities in conducting cyber espionage and other cyber-attacks against the nation and its allies. Cyber Command seeks to be a deterrence factor to dissuade potential adversaries from attacking the U.S., while being a multi-faceted department in conducting cyber operations of its own.\n\nThree prominent events took place which may have been catalysts in the creation of the idea of Cyber Command. There was a failure of critical infrastructure reported by the CIA where malicious activities against information technology systems disrupted electrical power capabilities overseas. This resulted in multi-city power outages across multiple regions. The second event was the exploitation of global financial services. In November 2008, an international bank had a compromised payment processor that allowed fraudulent transactions to be made at more than 130 automated teller machines in 49 cities within a 30-minute period. The last event was the systemic loss of U.S. economic value when an industry in 2008 estimated $1 trillion in losses of intellectual property to data theft. Even though all these events were internal catastrophes, they were very real in nature, meaning nothing can stop state or non-state actors to do the same thing on an even grander scale. Other initiatives like the Cyber Training Advisory Council were created to improve the quality, efficiency, and sufficiency of training for computer network defense, attack, and exploitation of enemy cyber operations.\n\nOn both ends of the spectrum, East and West nations show a \"sword and shield\" contrast in ideals. The Chinese have a more offensive minded idea for cyberwarfare, trying to get the pre-emptive strike in the early stages of conflict to gain the upper-hand. In the U.S. there are more reactionary measures being taken at creating systems with impenetrable barriers to protect the nation and its civilians from cyber-attacks.\n\nAccording to \"Homeland Preparedness News\", many mid-sized U.S. companies have a difficult time defending their systems against cyber attacks. Around 80 percent of assets vulnerable to a cyber attack are owned by private companies and organizations. Former New York State Deputy Secretary for Public Safety Michael Balboni said that private entities \"do not have the type of capability, bandwidth, interest or experience to develop a proactive cyber analysis.\"\n\nIn response to cyber-attacks on April 1, 2015, President Obama issued an Executive Order establishing the first-ever economic sanctions. The Executive Order will impact individuals and entities (\"designees\") responsible for cyber-attacks that threaten the national security, foreign policy, economic health, or financial stability of the US. Specifically, the Executive Order authorizes the Treasury Department to freeze designees' assets.\n\nAccording to Ted Koppel's book, in 2008, the United States in collaboration with Israel, ran a cyberattack on Iran's nuclear program, becoming \"the first to use a digital weapon as an instrument of policy\".\n\nA series of powerful cyber attacks began 27 June 2017 that swamped websites of Ukrainian organizations, including banks, ministries, newspapers and electricity firms.\n\nDuring FIFA world cup 2018, Russia countered and stopped around 25 million cyber attacks on IT Infrastructure.\n\nA whole industry is working trying to minimize the likelihood and the consequence of an information attack.\n\nFor a partial list see: .\n\nThey offer different products and services, aimed at:\n\n\nMany organizations are trying to classify vulnerability and their consequence: the most famous vulnerability database is the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures.\n\nComputer emergency response teams are set up by government and large organization to handle computer security incidents.\n\nOnce a cyber-attack has been initiated, there are certain targets that need to be attacked to cripple the opponent. Certain infrastructures as targets have been highlighted as critical infrastructures in time of conflict that can severely cripple a nation. Control systems, energy resources, finance, telecommunications, transportation, and water facilities are seen as critical infrastructure targets during conflict. A new report on the industrial cybersecurity problems, produced by the British Columbia Institute of Technology, and the PA Consulting Group, using data from as far back as 1981, reportedly has found a 10-fold increase in the number of successful cyber-attacks on infrastructure Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems since 2000. Cyberattacks that have an adverse physical effect are known as cyber-physical attacks.\n\nControl systems are responsible for activating and monitoring industrial or mechanical controls. Many devices are integrated with computer platforms to control valves and gates to certain physical infrastructures. Control systems are usually designed as remote telemetry devices that link to other physical devices through internet access or modems. Little security can be offered when dealing with these devices, enabling many hackers or cyberterrorists to seek out systematic vulnerabilities. Paul Blomgren, manager of sales engineering at cybersecurity firm explained how his people drove to a remote substation, saw a wireless network antenna and immediately plugged in their wireless LAN cards. They took out their laptops and connected to the system because it wasn't using passwords. \"Within 10 minutes, they had mapped every piece of equipment in the facility,\" Blomgren said. \"Within 15 minutes, they mapped every piece of equipment in the operational control network. Within 20 minutes, they were talking to the business network and had pulled off several business reports. They never even left the vehicle.\"\n\nEnergy is seen as the second infrastructure that could be attacked. It is broken down into two categories, electricity and natural gas. Electricity also known as electric grids power cities, regions, and households; it powers machines and other mechanisms used in day-to-day life. Using U.S. as an example, in a conflict cyberterrorists can access data through the Daily Report of System Status that shows power flows throughout the system and can pinpoint the busiest sections of the grid. By shutting those grids down, they can cause mass hysteria, backlog, and confusion; also being able to locate critical areas of operation to further attacks in a more direct method. Cyberterrorists can access instructions on how to connect to the Bonneville Power Administration which helps direct them on how to not fault the system in the process. This is a major advantage that can be utilized when cyber-attacks are being made because foreign attackers with no prior knowledge of the system can attack with the highest accuracy without drawbacks. Cyberattacks on natural gas installations go much the same way as it would with attacks on electrical grids. Cyberterrorists can shutdown these installations stopping the flow or they can even reroute gas flows to another section that can be occupied by one of their allies. There was a case in Russia with a gas supplier known as Gazprom, they lost control of their central switchboard which routes gas flow, after an inside operator and Trojan horse program bypassed security.\n\nFinancial infrastructures could be hit hard by cyber-attacks as the financial system is linked by computer systems. is constant money being exchanged in these institutions and if cyberterrorists were to attack and if transactions were rerouted and large amounts of money stolen, financial industries would collapse and civilians would be without jobs and security. Operations would stall from region to region causing nationwide economical degradation. In the U.S. alone, the average daily volume of transactions hit $3 trillion and 99% of it is non-cash flow. To be able to disrupt that amount of money for one day or for a period of days can cause lasting damage making investors pull out of funding and erode public confidence.\n\nA cyberattack on a financial institution or transactions may be referred to as a cyberheist. These attacks may start with phishing that targets employees, using social engineering to coax information from them. They may allow attackers to hack into the network and put keyloggers on the accounting systems. In time, the cybercriminals are able to obtain password and keys information. An organization's bank accounts can then be accessed via the information they have stolen using the keyloggers. In May 2013, a gang carried out a US$40 million cyberheist from the Bank of Muscat.\n\nCyberattacking telecommunication infrastructures have straightforward results. Telecommunication integration is becoming common practice, systems such as voice and IP networks are merging. Everything is being run through the internet because the speeds and storage capabilities are endless. Denial-of-service attacks can be administered as previously mentioned, but more complex attacks can be made on BGP routing protocols or DNS infrastructures. It is less likely that an attack would target or compromise the traditional telephony network of SS7 switches, or an attempted attack on physical devices such as microwave stations or satellite facilities. The ability would still be there to shut down those physical facilities to disrupt telephony networks. The whole idea on these cyber-attacks is to cut people off from one another, to disrupt communication, and by doing so, to impede critical information being sent and received. In cyberwarfare, this is a critical way of gaining the upper-hand in a conflict. By controlling the flow of information and communication, a nation can plan more accurate strikes and enact better counter-attack measures on their enemies.\n\nTransportation infrastructure mirrors telecommunication facilities; by impeding transportation for individuals in a city or region, the economy will slightly degrade over time. Successful cyber-attacks can impact scheduling and accessibility, creating a disruption in the economic chain. Carrying methods will be impacted, making it hard for cargo to be sent from one place to another. In January 2003 during the \"slammer\" virus, Continental Airlines was forced to shut down flights due to computer problems. Cyberterrorists can target railroads by disrupting switches, target flight software to impede airplanes, and target road usage to impede more conventional transportation methods. In May 2015, a man, Chris Roberts, who was a cyberconsultant, revealed to the FBI that he had repeatedly, from 2011 to 2014, managed to hack into Boeing and Airbus flights' controls via the onboard entertainment system, allegedly, and had at least once ordered a flight to climb. The FBI, after detaining him in April 2015 in Syracuse, had interviewed him about the allegations.\n\nWater as an infrastructure could be one of the most critical infrastructures to be attacked. It is seen as one of the greatest security hazards among all of the computer-controlled systems. There is the potential to have massive amounts of water unleashed into an area which could be unprotected causing loss of life and property damage. It is not even water supplies that could be attacked; sewer systems can be compromised too. There was no calculation given to the cost of damages, but the estimated cost to replace critical water systems could be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. Most of these water infrastructures are well developed making it hard for cyber-attacks to cause any significant damage, at most, equipment failure can occur causing power outlets to be disrupted for a short time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14827509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14827509", "title": "Córdoba International Animation Festival – ANIMA", "text": "Córdoba International Animation Festival – ANIMA\n\nEstablished in 2001, the Córdoba International Animation Festival - ANIMA is Argentina's oldest animation festival. It is held in the city of Córdoba, Argentina, in odd years.\n"}
{"id": "4652204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4652204", "title": "Everett Alvarez Jr.", "text": "Everett Alvarez Jr.\n\nEverett Alvarez Jr. (born December 23, 1937) is a former United States Navy officer who endured one of the longest periods as a prisoner of war (POW) in U.S. military history. Alvarez was the first U.S. pilot to be downed and detained during the Vietnam War and spent over eight years in captivity, making him the second longest-held U.S. POW, after U.S. Army Colonel Floyd James Thompson.\n\nAlvarez was born in 1937 in Salinas, California. He is the grandson of immigrants from Mexico. He went to Santa Clara University on an academic scholarship. He joined the United States Navy in 1960 and was selected for pilot training. On August 5, 1964, during Operation Pierce Arrow, LTJG. Alvarez's Douglas A-4 Skyhawk was shot down in the immediate aftermath of what is known as the Gulf of Tonkin incident. Alvarez endured eight years and seven months of brutal captivity by the North Vietnamese at the Hỏa Lò Prison (sarcastically known as the \"Hanoi Hilton\" by fellow POWs), in which he was repeatedly beaten and tortured. Alvarez was especially esteemed by his fellow prisoners because he was for almost a year the only aviator prisoner of war.\n\nHe was released on February 12, 1973 as part of the first group of American POWs repatriated under Operation Homecoming, after spending 3,113 days in captivity. After hospitalization, Alvarez briefly attended refresher flight training with VT-21 at NAS Kingsville and then attended the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School, where he received a master's degree in Operations Research and Systems Analysis in October 1976. His final assignment was in Program Management at the Naval Air Systems Command in Washington, D.C., from October 1976 until his retirement from the Navy on June 30, 1980.\n\nAlvarez has co-authored two books, writing of his prisoner of war experiences in \"Chained Eagle\" and \"Code Of Conduct\". Everett Alvarez High School in his native Salinas, California is named after him. There is also a park named in his honor in Santa Clara, California and a post office named in his honor in Montgomery County, Maryland.\n\nA subdivision at Naval Air Station Lemoore in California was named after Alvarez during his internment.\n\nIn 2012, the Mobile, Alabama chapter of the Association of Naval Services Officers (ANSO) was named after Alvarez.\n\nThe Lone Sailor Award was given to Alvarez in Washington, D.C. on September 18, 2012. This award is given to sea service veterans who have excelled with distinction in their respective civilian careers while exemplifying the U.S. Navy's stated core values of honor, courage and commitment.\n\nAlvarez retired from the U.S. Navy with the rank of commander in 1980. He later earned a Master's Degree in Operations and Research Analysis and a Juris Doctor degree, and in April 1981, he was appointed by U.S. President Ronald Reagan to the post of Deputy Director of the Peace Corps. In July 1982, President Reagan nominated and the U.S. Senate confirmed him as Deputy Administrator of the Veterans Administration (VA). After six years with the VA he was appointed by President Reagan in 1988 to the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences (USUHS) in Bethesda, Maryland. Alvarez served on that board for almost 21 years, including serving as Chairman of the Board twice. Alvarez has served on the President’s Task Force to improve Health Care Delivery for our Nation’s Veterans and recently chaired the VA’s Capital Asset Realignment and Enhancement Study Commission (CARES). Alvarez also serves on Grantham University’s independent Board of Governors.\n\nAlvarez is a lifetime member of the Board of Fellows of Santa Clara University. He served on the Board of Directors of the International Graduate University of Democracy in Washington, DC. He served on the College of William & Mary Washington, DC Council. He has served on the White House Board of Fellows Selection Committee and on the Board of Directors of the Armed Services YMCA of the USA. He is on the Library of Congress Veterans History Project Five Star Council Advisory Committee. In 2004, Alvarez founded Alvarez & Associates, an IT consulting firm in Washington, D.C. which sells IT services to the U.S. government. In March 2014, Alvarez was appointed to the Vietnam War Commemoration Advisory Council by the U.S. Secretary of Defense, Chuck Hagel.\n\nAlvarez is married and father to two children.\n\nHe is the recipient of the Silver Star, two Legions of Merit, two Bronze Star Medals, the Distinguished Flying Cross, and two Purple Heart Medals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34275436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34275436", "title": "Gunla Bajan", "text": "Gunla Bajan\n\nGunlā Bājan () is devotional music played by the Newars of Nepal. \"Gunla\" is the name of the tenth month in the Nepal Sambat calendar, which corresponds to August, and \"bajan\" means music and also music playing group.\n\nGunla is a holy month for Newar Buddhists when they recite the scriptures and visit places of worship playing devotional music. The practice of observing the sacred month is descended from the rains retreat dating from the Buddha's time when monks stayed in one place and taught the Dharma.\n\nSocieties based on locality or caste, in which membership is hereditary, organize Gunla Bajan performances. These groups follow an annual calendar of public performances. They also conduct music lessons and hold religious festivals, hymn singing sessions and feasts.\n\nThe most important activity of the year is making daily pilgrimages during Gunla to Swayambhu and other Buddhist sites playing Gunla music. The main days during the holy month are Bahidyah Swahwanegu (बहीद्यः स्वःवनेगु), when devotees playing Gunla music visit sacred courtyards to view the images of Bahidyah (Dipankara Buddha) and paubha paintings put on display for the festival; and Nisala Chhawanegu (निसला छा:वनेगु), when offerings are made to Swayambhu and concerts are held at one's neighborhoods. Gunla musical bands also lead processions during New Year's Day of Nepal Sambat.\n\nA performance of Gunla music starts with Dyah Lhayegu, a short salutation to the deities. Separate pieces of music are played when marching in procession, going around a shrine and crossing a bridge. These are known as Lawantah, Chwoh, Graha, Astar, Palimaa and Partaal.\n\nDuring processions, musicians usually play the tunes of seasonal songs or other traditional songs backed by drums and cymbals. Tunes of modern hits are also played.\n\nGwara is a long piece of music which is played in temple squares and sacred courtyards with the musicians standing in a circle. It is 15 to 20 minutes long. The popular ones are Annapurna Gwara, Swetkali Gwara and Sangin Gwara.\n\nThe double-sided drum known as \"dhaa\" (धा:), which is the main instrument in Gunla music, is believed to have been played in the Kathmandu Valley for 2,000 years. It is struck on the left side with a short stick and on the right side with the hand.\n\nTrumpets and clarinets are used to play the tune. Originally, local wind instruments known as \"mwahali\" (म्वाहालि) and \"basuri\" (बासुरि) provided the tune.\n\nThe other instruments used are \"taa\" (ता:) and \"bhusya\" (भुस्या:), small and large cymbals respectively. The \"naykhin\" (नायखिं) small drum and \"chhusya\" (छुस्या:) cymbals form a separate set of instruments. The \"payentah\" (पंयता:) is a long trumpet. \n"}
{"id": "11253358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11253358", "title": "Johanna Klum", "text": "Johanna Klum\n\nJohanna Klum (born 12 July 1980 in Berlin) is a German television presenter and former singer.\n\nJohanna was a member of the German girl band \"Samajona\" until 2002, after which she became the presenter of Total Request Live on MTV.\n\nIn 2005, she started working for VIVA, where she presented the show \"17\", now presenting the follow-up VIVA Live!, with her colleagues Gülcan Kamps, Collien Fernandes, and Klaas Heufer-Umlauf.\n\nIn 2007, she presented the show \"Popstars-Das Magazin\", which referred to the sixth season of Popstars under the title \"Popstars on Stage\". The show aired on both VIVA and Pro7, the original \"Popstars\" channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "47373041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47373041", "title": "Killing of Cecil the lion", "text": "Killing of Cecil the lion\n\nCecil ( 2002 – 2 July 2015) was a lion that lived primarily in the Hwange National Park in Matabeleland North, Zimbabwe. He was a major attraction of the park and was being studied and tracked by a researcher team of the University of Oxford as part of a long-term study.\n\nOn the night of 1 July 2015, Cecil was wounded with an arrow by Walter Palmer, an American dentist and recreational big-game hunter, then tracked and killed with a bow and arrow the following morning, between 10 and 12 hours later. Cecil was 13 years old when killed. Palmer had a permit and was not charged with any crime; authorities in Zimbabwe have said he is still free to visit the country as a tourist – but not as a hunter.\n\nThe killing resulted in international media attention, caused outrage among animal conservationists, criticism by politicians and celebrities and a strong negative response against Palmer. Five months after the killing of Cecil, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service added lions in India and West and Central Africa to the endangered species' list, making it more difficult for United States citizens to legally kill lions. According to Wayne Pacelle, then President of the Humane Society, Cecil had \"changed the atmospherics on the issue of trophy hunting around the world,\" adding \"I think it gave less wiggle room to regulators.\"\n\nCecil was named for the British businessman, politician and mining magnate Cecil Rhodes, as was the country of Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe. Another lion thought to be Cecil's brother was noticed in Hwange National Park in 2008. During 2009, the two lions encountered an established a pride, which resulted in a fight in which Cecil's brother was killed, and both Cecil and the leader of the pride were seriously wounded; the leader was subsequently killed by park rangers because of the wounds he had incurred during the fight with Cecil. Cecil retreated to another part of the park where he eventually established his own pride which had as many as 22 members. During 2013, Cecil was forced out from the area by two young male lions into the eastern border of the park. There, he created a coalition with another male lion named Jericho to establish two prides which consisted of Cecil, Jericho, half a dozen females and up to a dozen cubs sired by Cecil or Jericho.\n\nCecil was the best-known animal in the national park and was identifiable by his black-fringed mane and a GPS tracking collar. The lions in the park, including Cecil, have been studied by scientists from the Wildlife Conservation Research Unit at the University of Oxford as part of a scientific project that has run since 1999, and his movements had been followed since 2008. Of the 62 lions tagged during the study period, 34 have died, thereof 24 through sport hunting. Of adult male lions that were tagged inside the park, 72% were killed through sport hunting on areas near the park. One of the researchers on the project suggested that Cecil had become so popular because he was accustomed to people, allowing vehicles sometimes as close as , making it easy for tourists and researchers to photograph and observe him.\n\nDuring 2013, 49 hunted lion carcasses were exported from Zimbabwe as trophies; the 2005–2008 Zimbabwe hunt \"off-take\" (licensed kills) average was 42 lions per year.\n\nDuring June 2015, Dr. Walter J. Palmer, an American dentist and recreational game hunter from Minnesota, reportedly paid to a professional hunter-guide, Theo Bronkhorst, to enable him to kill a lion. In the late afternoon of 1 July, Bronkhorst and tracker Cornelius Ncube moved the carcass of an elephant, which had been hunted the previous week, to lure the lion out of the park. They then built a hunting blind nearby. Between 9 pm and 11 pm, Palmer shot and wounded Cecil with an arrow. The hunters tracked the wounded lion and killed him with a second arrow the next morning (about 10 to 12 hours later) at a location less than 250 metres from the initial shot. The hunt took place outside Hwange National Park, a protected area, but within the lion's normal range. Cecil's body was then skinned and his head removed. When the lion's headless skeleton was found by park investigators, his tracking collar was missing.\n\nThe lion was equipped with a satellite tracking device (Africa Wildlife Tracking, GPS Satellite collar) from which locational data were recorded every 2 hours. Subsequently, location data was pieced together and is depicted in the map herein. This interpretation of events was corroborated by the subsequent investigation by Zimbabwe National Parks and Wildlife management and is consistent with the satellite data.\n\nBronkhorst said during July, \"We had obtained the permit for bow hunting, we had obtained the permit for the lion from the council.\" The two Zimbabweans were arrested by Zimbabwe police. Palmer had already returned to the United States, where he issued a statement that he had \"relied on the expertise of my local professional guides to ensure a legal hunt\" and \"deeply regret that my pursuit of an activity I love and practice responsibly and legally resulted in the taking of this lion\".\n\nCecil's killing created an outrage among animal conservationists, and prompted responses from politicians and many other people. A number of celebrities publicly condemned Cecil's killing. Palmer received a large number of hate messages, and activists posted his private details online. The words \"Lion Killer\" were also spray-painted on the garage door at Palmer's Florida vacation home. In addition, at least seven pickled pigs feet were left on the residence. Artists from around the world dedicated art to Cecil, including Aaron Blaise, a former artist of Walt Disney Feature Animation. Musicians composed original works to honor Cecil.\n\nThe killing of Cecil sparked a discussion among conservation organisations about the ethics and business of big-game hunting and a proposal for bills banning imports of lion trophies to the U.S. and European Union. These discussions have convinced three of the largest airlines in the U.S., American, Delta and United, to voluntarily ban the transport of hunting trophies. In response, by the premise that profits from trophy hunts help animal conservation efforts, Pohamba Shifeta, the Namibian environment and tourism minister, said, \"This will be the end of conservation in Namibia.\"\nActivists have also asked African countries to ban bow hunting, lion baiting, and hunting from hunting blinds. Global media and social media reaction has resulted in close to 1.2 million people signing online petition \"Justice for Cecil\", which asks Zimbabwe's government to stop issuing hunting permits for endangered animals.\n\nSafari Club International responded by suspending both Palmer's and Bronkhorst's memberships, stating that \"those who intentionally take wildlife illegally should be prosecuted and punished to the maximum extent allowed by law.\" Late-night talk-show host Jimmy Kimmel helped raise in donations in less than 24 hours to Oxford's Wildlife Conservation Research Unit, which had been \"responsible for tracking Cecil's activity and location\".\n\nCecil's killing went largely unnoticed in the animal's native Zimbabwe. The country's \"The Chronicle\" newspaper wrote: \"It is not an overstatement that almost 99.99 percent of Zimbabweans didn’t know about this animal until Monday. Now we have just learnt, thanks to the British media, that we had Africa’s most famous lion all along, an icon!\" The BBC's Farai Sevenzo wrote: \"The lion's death has not registered much with the locals\". At the same time, Zimbabwean officials stated that the killing of Cecil had already caused a decrease of tourism revenues. A significant decrease was noted in Hwange, where the lion had lived. Many international tourists, who had planned to see the lion, had cancelled their trips. \"This killing is a huge loss to our tourism sector that was contributing immensely to the national wealth\", said Emanuel Fundira, the president of the Safari Operators Association of Zimbabwe. \"We had a lot of people, in terms of visitors, coming in to the country to enjoy and view Cecil, so really this was a great loss,\" Fundira said, and that Cecil's presence was \"a draw card,\" and compared his death to \"the demise of an icon\". The director of the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, Karikoga Kaseke, said that tourism had been booming, but that Zimbabwe was now perceived as a country which was not interested in protecting and promoting animal rights, and this had also had a negative effect on the tourism sector.\n\nBryan Orford, a professional wildlife guide who worked in Hwange, calculates that with tourists from a single nearby lodge collectively paying per day, the revenue generated by having Cecil's photograph taken during five days would have been greater than someone paying a one-off fee of to hunt and kill the lion, with no hope of future revenue.\n\nOn 1 August 2015, in response to Cecil's killing, the hunting of lions, leopards and elephants along with all bow-hunting was immediately suspended in areas outside of Hwange National Park by Zimbabwe's environment minister, Oppah Muchinguri, who said, \"All such hunts will only be conducted if confirmed and authorized in writing by the Director-general of the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority, and only if accompanied by parks staff whose costs will be met by the landowner\". The moratorium was lifted after 10 days.\n\nSome government officials publicly condemned the killing of Cecil. David Cameron, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, told reporters that the United Kingdom plays \"a leading role in preventing illegal wildlife trade\", when he was asked about Cecil's death. Grant Shapps, his Minister of State at the Department for International Development, described the incident as \"barbaric hunting\".\n\nU.S. Congresswoman Betty McCollum, co-chair of the United States Congressional International Conservation Caucus, suggested an investigation of Palmer and the killing.\n\nU.S. Senator Bob Menendez introduced the Conserving Ecosystems by Ceasing the Importation of Large (CECIL) Animal Trophies Act, which \"extend[s] the import and export protections for a species listed under the Endangered Species Act to those that have been proposed for listing, thereby prohibiting the import of any trophies gleaned from Cecil's killing without explicitly obtaining a permit from the Secretary of the Interior.\" The bill was cosponsored by Senators Cory Booker, Richard Blumenthal, and Ben Cardin.\n\nOn 30 July 2015, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a non-binding resolution to strengthen the efforts to address illicit wildlife poaching and trafficking. Germany and Gabon were the sponsors of the resolution. Harald Braun, Germany's U.N. Ambassador, associated the resolution with the killing and said: \"Like most people in the world we are outraged at what happened to this poor lion.\" Gabon's Foreign Minister Emmanuel Issoze-Ngondet said that Cecil's killing was \"a matter of deep concern for all countries in Africa\".\n\nZimbabwe's acting information minister, Prisca Mupfumira, when questioned about Cecil's killing, asked, \"What lion?\"\n\nAt a press conference on 31 July 2015, Zimbabwe's environment minister, Opa Muchinguri, said the hunter violated Zimbabwean law and needs to be held accountable. \"We are appealing to the responsible authorities for his extradition to Zimbabwe\". Muchinguri said in a press release that Palmer's actions had tarnished the image of Zimbabwe and placed further strain on the relationship between Zimbabwe and the U.S. She suggested conservationists and animal lovers provide resources to help decrease poaching and other environmental concerns in Zimbabwe.\n\nSouth African President Jacob Zuma declared on 11 August 2015: \"What it sounds like from a distance [is] that the hunter did not know that Cecil was so popular, just saw a lion, and killed a lion, and it's Cecil, and Cecil is very well loved and it caused a problem, because everyone wants to go and see Cecil. I think it's just an incident.\"\n\nJean Kapata, Zambia's minister of tourism, said \"the West seemed more concerned with the welfare of a lion in Zimbabwe than of Africans themselves\", and added that \"In Africa, a human being is more important than an animal. I don't know about the Western world.\"\n\nOn 7 July 2015, law enforcement officers of the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority commenced an investigation after receiving information that a lion had been killed illegally on a farm near Hwange National Park. The investigation discovered that a lion had been killed illegally on the farm on 1 July 2015.\n\nOn 29 July 2015, Bronkhorst appeared in court at Victoria Falls and pleaded not guilty to a charge of \"failing to prevent an unlawful hunt\". He was granted bail at and was ordered to appear back in court on 5 August. Bronkhorst stated: \"Palmer is a totally innocent party to this whole thing, and he has conducted and bought a hunt from me that was legitimate.\" Zimbabwe National Parks said in a statement that quotas are assigned to given areas and that Cecil was shot in an area without a quota for lion kills. On 5 August 2015, the case was adjourned until 28 September, when Bronkhorst's barrister was next available. On 11 November 2016, the High Court in the city of Bulawayo threw out the charges against Bronkhorst, agreeing with the defense that it could not have been a crime under the country's wildlife laws if Palmer had a legal permit to hunt.\n\nWhile one account said Honest Ndlovu, who occupies the land on which Cecil was killed, was charged on 29 July 2015 with allowing an illegal hunt on his land, his attorney said two days later that Ndlovu had not been, with parks officials saying days afterward that he would be charged after first testifying for the state. On 18 August 2015, prosecutors brought an illegal-hunting charge against Ndlovu.\n\nPalmer left Zimbabwe for the United States after the hunt. He indicated that he would cooperate with authorities in the investigation. On 30 July 2015, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service was searching for Palmer as part of its investigation. He contacted them voluntarily through a representative on the same day.\n\nOn 6 September 2015, Palmer said he would return to his dental practice on 9 September, and that he has not been charged with any crime in the United States or Zimbabwe, nor been contacted by authorities. On 12 October, Zimbabwe government officials said Palmer's papers were in order and Palmer would not be charged with any crime. They said he was free to return to Zimbabwe as a tourist but not as a hunter.\n\nWhen one or more new male lions oust or replace a previous male(s) associated with a pride, they often kill any existing young cubs, a form of infanticide. Initially, both the University of Oxford study and Johnny Rodrigues, head of the Zimbabwe Conservation Task Force, indicated that they believed Cecil's six cubs could be killed by the new dominant male in the pride. In a later interview, however, Rodrigues said Jericho had assumed control of the pride but had not killed Cecil's cubs, and that he was also keeping the cubs safe from any rivals.\n\nXanda, a son of Cecil's, was legally shot by trophy hunters in Zimbabwe on 20 July 2017. He was six years old and a father of several young cubs. Despite this being termed a 'legal' act of killing, it provoked reactions, not just amongst advocates of animal rights. The BBC termed it a 'sad' inheritance from Cecil. University of Oxford's Department of Zoology called for a \"no-hunting zone\" around Hwange Park, spanning .\n\nFive months after the killing of Cecil, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service added two species of lions, in India and western and central Africa, to the endangered species list. The listings would make it more difficult (though not impossible) for US citizen hunters to kill these protected lions. According to Wayne Pacelle, president of the Humane Society of the United States and who petitioned for the new listing, Cecil had \"changed the atmospherics on the issue of trophy hunting around the world,\" adding \"I think it gave less wiggle room to regulators.\" Wayne added that he thought the killing of Cecil was \"a defining moment\" resulting in the new protections. Jeff Flocken, regional director of the International Fund for Animal Welfare, said that while the U.S.F.W.S. decision was not the direct result of the death of Cecil, \"it would be impossible to ignore the public outcry\" and its effect on worldwide opinion. \"The New York Times\", writing about the new regulations, said \"the killing of Cecil .. seemed to galvanize public attention.\"\n\nOther countries and companies have also taken action. In the five months since Cecil's killing, France banned the import of lion trophies. The Netherlands did so in 2016. Britain said it will do so during 2017. More than 40 airlines have also said they will no longer transport hunting trophies.\n\nThe investigative journalist George Knapp noted Cecil's case on the approach of the incident's one-year anniversary during an annual animal-welfare broadcast concerning issues, the development of law, animal cruelty, and remediation efforts in June 2016. The 2016 broadcast covered various issues, including horses and trophy hunting noting Cecil and the effect the incident was still causing at the date of the show. Money raised in response to Cecil's death has been used by researchers to reduce conflicts between people and lions by paying for lion protectors and other methods.\n\nThe \"Cecil effect\" is a term used by some to express the belief that after the killing of Cecil, there was a reduction in the number of hunters coming to Zimbabwe and a subsequent increase in lion populations in certain areas. Byron du Preez, project leader at the Bubye Valley Conservancy, believes the effect does not exist, saying, \"Hunters are not coming because there is a massive recession [in the U.S.].\" Those who believe in the effect say hunters are staying away from Zimbabwe due to fear of negative publicity. About a month after Cecil was killed, when international uproar was at its peak, Zimbabwean hunting guide Quinn Swales was killed by a lion on a hunt. Some of his fellow guides speculated that he was afraid of shooting the animal out of fear of the possible backlash due to Cecil. According to guide Steve Taylor, \"This guy was a really successful guide, and he died by a lion. And I think that's the Cecil Effect. Guides in Zimbabwe are petrified of having the world turn on them.\"\n\nSome attribute the effect as being responsible for an unsustainable lion population in the Bubye Valley Conservancy, negatively affected the conservancy's population of antelope, giraffe, cheetah, leopards and wild dogs. Additionally, 2015 was the driest summer on record, which kept grass low and made game animals easy targets for lions.\n\nIn the children's book \"Cecil's Pride\" (2016), author Craig Hatkoff and his daughters sought to shed light on Cecil's life and how he lived prior to his death. He reached out to those who studied Cecil's pride at Zimbabwe's Hwange National Park and got into contact with Cecil's 'biographer', researcher Brent Stapelkamp. Stapelkamp had studied Cecil for over 9 years and had accumulated photographs that were used as illustrations in the book that capture the complexities of the pride. The book highlights the relationship of Cecil and an unrelated male named Jericho who becomes co-leader with Cecil and then leader after Cecil's death.\n\nUniversity of Oxford wildlife biologist Andrew Loveridge, in his book \"Lion Hearted\" (2018), suggests that the hunters allowed Cecil to suffer for more than 10 hours, without hastening his death with a firearm, possibly to allow Palmer to submit the game to a hunting record book as an archery-hunted animal. Loveridge further suggests that Bronkhost, knowing that he had no quota to hunt in the area, attempted to deliberately conceal the hunt by removing Cecil's skinned carcass and disabling his collar.\n\n"}
{"id": "1839218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1839218", "title": "La Fête du Baiser", "text": "La Fête du Baiser\n\nLa Fête du Baiser (\"festival of the kiss\") is a festival celebrated the Saturday after St. Valentine's Day, in Roquemaure, France, near Avignon. Begun in 1989, it commemorates not only Saint Valentine, whom locals claim as a former resident, but the arrival of his remains in 1868 to Roquemaure's collegiate church reliquary. Celebrations revolve around a return to a 19th-century way of life, including costumes and markets.\n\nThe relics of St Valentine were purchased in Rome, in hopes of curing the town's diseased vine stocks; within four years they were healed. Today, Roquemaure is home to a winery (Cellar St. Valentine) which produces wines named after the saint.\n\nThe festival was started by a local priest, Father René Durieu. Men and women around the village dress as priests and nuns, kissing each other, as well as travelers. Special foods and wines are produced especially for the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "14996856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14996856", "title": "Laika (comics)", "text": "Laika (comics)\n\nLaika is a graphic novel by Nick Abadzis that gives a fictionalized account of the life and death of the eponymous dog, the first living creature launched in orbital spaceflight.\n\nBased on a true story, the graphic novel tells the story of Laika from multiple points of view: from that of the ambitious Sergey Korolyov, Chief Engineer responsible for the launching and construction of Sputnik 2; to that of Yelena Dubrovsky, official trainer of the space-bound dogs; to that of Oleg Gazenko, scientist; and finally from the viewpoint of Laika herself, who had lived as a stray on the streets of Moscow.\n\n\n\nAbadzis notes that his intention was to avoid anthropomorphism in portraying the central canine character. Thus Laika's traits of trust and eagerness to please are portrayed through her non-verbalised behaviour, and the reactions of the more sympathetic humans with whom she comes in contact. Mistreated as a young dog, Laika shows a need to gain human affection and approval that leads her through a harsh training regime to death in space. Even the empathetic Yelena accepts that animals will die in the space programme, though bitterly regretting that her \"special dog\" is the one to be sent with no hope of survival. Many of the incidents portrayed by Abadzis, such as Laika being taken home by a senior officer to play with his children shortly before the launch, are recorded as having actually occurred.\n\nThe graphic novel concludes with a real-life statement of regret by Oleg Gazenko, made in 1998: \"Work with animals is a source of suffering to all of us. We treat them like babies who cannot speak. The more time passes, the more I'm sorry about it. We did not learn enough from the mission to justify the death of the dog\".\n\n\"Laika\" was well-received, with the \"New York Press\" writing that Abadzis \"has fashioned a poignant and accurate portrait of the lives Laika touched in the three years leading up to Sputnik II’s launch. His characters — including the dog — are as real as the story he’s telling: animated with complex personalities, flaws, humor and emotion.\" \"The Space Review\" called it \"an entertaining but also educational overview of the life of an unwitting space pioneer\", while another review states that \"reading \"Laika\" is the sort of experience that you won’t forget any time soon\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21547318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21547318", "title": "List of LED failure modes", "text": "List of LED failure modes\n\nThe most common way for LEDs (and diode lasers) to fail is the gradual lowering of light output and loss of efficiency. Sudden failures, however rare, can occur as well. Early red LEDs were notable for their short lifetime.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3437432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3437432", "title": "List of conflicts in Asia", "text": "List of conflicts in Asia\n\nThis is a list of wars and conflicts in Asia, particularly East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia and Russia. For a list of conflicts in Southwest Asia, see \"List of conflicts in the Near East\" for historical conflicts and \"List of conflicts in the Middle East\" for contemporary conflicts.\n\nSinai insurgency\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNeo-Assyrian Empire\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1336–1646 Vijayanagara Empire conflicts\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57650518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57650518", "title": "List of official trips made by Paolo Gentiloni", "text": "List of official trips made by Paolo Gentiloni\n\nThis is a list of official trips made by Paolo Gentiloni, who served as the 57th Prime Minister of Italy from 12 December 2016 until 1 June 2018.\n"}
{"id": "17079670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17079670", "title": "List of riots and civil unrest in Calgary", "text": "List of riots and civil unrest in Calgary\n\nThe following is a timeline of riots and civil unrest in Calgary, Alberta. Since its incorporation as a town in 1884, like other cities, Calgary has had to deal with a variety of violence. Calgary has been credited with maintaining relative civility during duress. The Great Depression in Canada has received particular attention from sociologists and historians, including Thomas Thorner and Neil Watson who wrote, \"There is little question that Calgary experienced its share of civil strife during the Depression. Battles between police and the single unemployed men, full scale riots and threats to blow up public buildings appear to have been almost annual events.\" According to Stephen Graham, a Professor of Human Geography at Durham University, recent events have seen the City of Calgary change their tactics towards civil unrest activities such as protests.\n"}
{"id": "3318884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3318884", "title": "Magyar Narancs", "text": "Magyar Narancs\n\nMagyar Narancs (\"Hungarian Orange\" in English) is a weekly liberal magazine with a strong satiric tone appearing on Thursdays in Hungary. It is informally referred to as Mancs (\"Paw\" in English) which is a joking abbreviation of the name. The magazine was first published in October 1989. Its headquarters are in Budapest. The language of the magazine is unique in that it uses everyday speech and not the formal language of most Hungarian journalism. It has a great effect on the Hungarian liberal-libertarian intellectual society. It includes articles mainly on politics, culture and sociology.\n\nThe name is a reference to the communist-era attempt to cultivate oranges in Hungary, which failed. The climate is not suitable and the oranges didn't ripen fully, and they were almost yellow and had a sour taste. This was parodied by the movie \"The Witness\", in which the only fruit from the plantation is eaten just before being presented to the great leader. In order to salvage the situation, a lemon is used as a replacement. The leader's reaction to the substitution (\"It's a bit more yellow, it's a bit more sour, but it's OURS!\") gave rise to the term \"Hungarian orange\", which has since become a metaphor, similar to the \"goulash communism\" used abroad. It was used to refer to the pseudo-communism in the communist era and to the pseudo-capitalism after the country became a democracy, and other phenomena. The orange was also used as the logo by the Fidesz (currently centre-right, but started as libertarian) party, for similar reasons. This however caused confusion since Fidesz became a conservative party and the magazine did not want to be identified with the changed party. To solve this, recently the orange basic colour of the magazine's headline has been changed to yellow which is also the actual colour of the \"Hungarian orange\", a lemon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1646132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1646132", "title": "Mambo (dance)", "text": "Mambo (dance)\n\nMambo is a Latin dance of Cuba which was developed in the 1940s when the music genre of the same name became popular throughout Latin America. The original ballroom dance which emerged in Cuba and Mexico was related to the danzón, albeit faster and less rigid. In the United States, it replaced rhumba as the most fashionable Latin dance. Later on, with the advent of salsa and its more sophisticated dance, a new type of mambo dance including breaking steps was popularized in New York. This form received the name of \"salsa on 2\", \"mambo on 2\" or \"modern mambo\".\n\nIn the mid-1940s, bandleader devised a dance for a new form of music known as mambo music, taking its name from the 1938 song Mambo 1980 song a charanga which had popularized a new form of danzon known as danzon mambo. This was a syncopated, less rigid form of the danzón which allowed the dancers to more freely express themselves during the last section, known as the mambo section . From Havana Pérez Prado moved his music to Mexico, where his music and the dance was adopted. The original mambo dance was characterized by freedom and complicated foot-steps. \nThe mambo dance that was spearheaded by Pérez Prado and was popular in the 1940s and '50s in Cuba, Mexico, and New York is completely different from the modern dance that New Yorkers now call \"mambo\" and which is also known as salsa \"on 2\". The original mambo dance contains no breaking steps or basic steps at all. The Cuban dance was not accepted by many professional dance teachers. Cuban dancers would describe mambo as \"feeling the music\", in which sound and movement were merged through the body. Professional dance teachers in the US saw this approach to dancing as \"extreme\", \"undisciplined\", and thus deemed it necessary to standardize the dance to present it as a salable commodity for the social and ballroom market.\n\nThe modern mambo dance from New York was popularised in the late 1960s into the 1970s by George Vascones, president of a dance group known as the Latin Symbolics, from the Bronx, New York. George Vascones continued the mambo dance tradition which started two decades earlier during the \"Palladium era\". It was followed in the 1980s by Eddie Torres, Angel Rodriguez of RazzM'Tazz Mambo Dance Company, and others, many of whom were 2nd generation New York Puerto Ricans. This style is sometimes danced to mambo music, but more often to salsa dura (old-school salsa). It is termed \"mambo on 2\" because the break, or direction change, in the basic step occurs on count 2. The Eddie Torres and Razz M'Tazz schools each have different basic steps, even though they share this same basic feature. Eddie Torres describes his version as a \"street\" style he developed out of what he saw on the Bronx streets. The RazzM'Tazz version is closer to the Palladium mambo (from the Palladium ballroom in the 1950s), whose basic step was in turn derived from Cuban son, with which it shares its timing (234 - 678, with pauses on 1 and 5) both styles derived from the American Mambo with the freestyle steps based on jazz and tap steps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14218736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218736", "title": "Margarita Ball", "text": "Margarita Ball\n\nDallas Margarita Society dba Dallas Children’s Charities (DMS/DCC) is a 501(c)(3) charitable corporation formed in 1977 when a group of Dallas businessmen decided to host a holiday party.\n\nThat signature event, the Annual Dallas Margarita Ball, has grown into the largest, invitation-only, charity black tie gala in the world with over 12,000 guests attending.\n\nA literal mountain of joy accumulates at the event each year, as guests gladly respond to the organization’s request to drop off a donated toy upon entry to the Ball or sponsor gifts with cash donations.\n\nAs the Annual Dallas Margarita Ball has expanded over four decades, so have the organization’s goals. We’ve preserved the founders’ original intent – to provide gifts for “at risk” youth in the DFW area during the holiday season. However, the extent of our gifting has broadened, as DMS/DCC now provides support to over 50 regional children’s charities with gifts of cash, toys, computers, exercise gear, school supplies, and many others that are awarded, not just at Christmas, but in almost every month of the year. Over its 42-year history, DMS/DCC and its supporters have contributed millions of hours of community service and millions of dollars in gifts, including over 200,000 toys, to lift up those who need it most – disadvantaged kids.\n\nToday, the combined value of what we give back exceeds a million dollars a year, but the smiles we provide are priceless.\n\nNovember 17, 2018 will mark our 42nd Annual Dallas Margarita Ball. In addition to our toy collection efforts, the 2018 Dallas Margarita Ball will feature our 18 Annual Silent Auction. Our Silent Auction has gained notoriety as one of the most extensive charity auctions in the United States and donors benefit from exposure to over 12,000 affluent guests, while supporting one of our organization’s most effective fundraising opportunities.\n"}
{"id": "5864094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5864094", "title": "Mohamed Atta's alleged Prague connection", "text": "Mohamed Atta's alleged Prague connection\n\nThe alleged Prague connection between Iraq and Al Qaeda came through an alleged meeting between September 11 hijacker Mohamed Atta and Iraqi consulate in April 2001. This alleged connection is notable because it was a key claim used by the Bush administration to justify the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq. The Czech counterintelligence service claimed that Mohamed Atta al-Sayed, a September 11 hijacker, met with Ahmad Samir al-Ani, the consul at the Iraqi Embassy in Prague, in a café in Prague. This claim, sometimes known as the \"Prague connection\", is generally considered to be false and has been said to be unsubstantiated by the Senate Intelligence Committee in the United States.\n\nIn an interview with NBC's \"Meet the Press\" on December 9, 2001, then-Vice President Dick Cheney said, It's been pretty well confirmed that (Atta) did go to Prague, and he did meet with a senior official of the Iraqi intelligence service in (the Czech Republic) last April, several months before the attack.\n\nCheney repeated the allegation as the nation prepared for war with Iraq.\n\nThe source for the claim came from a contact the Czech intelligence had within the Iraqi embassy, described in \"The Boston Globe\" as \"a single informant from Prague's Arab community who saw Atta's picture in the news after the 11 September attacks, and who later told his handlers that he had seen him meeting with Ani. Some officials have called the source unreliable.\"\n\nThe story was first leaked to the Reuters news service on September 18, 2001. Without naming Prague, Reuters reported that \"[r]ecent intelligence information received by the United States showed Atta had met with a representative of Iraqi intelligence this year\". The report cited \"U.S. government sources\". On October 13, 2001, the story was leaked to Czech newspapers. The story was confirmed by the State Department. On October 20, 2001, \"The New York Times\" published a story by John Tagliabue saying Czech officials denied the meeting ever occurred.\n\nOn October 26, Czech Republic Interior Minister Stanislav Gross responded by calling a press conference at which he \"confirmed\" that Atta \"did make contact with an officer of the Iraqi intelligence\" in Prague, namely al-Ani, who was later expelled from the country.\n\nOn October 27, \"The New York Times\" published a story refuting its earlier story. Later \"The New York Times\" reported that Czech officials later backed off of the claim, first privately, and then later publicly after the paper conducted \"extensive interviews with leading Czech figures.\"\n\nWhen rumors of the Czech officials privately backing away from the claims first appeared in the Western media, according to \"The Prague Post\", Hynek Kmoníček, the Czech envoy to the UN stated \"The meeting took place.\" One senior Czech official who requested anonymity speculated that the media reports dismissing the meeting were the result of a \"guided leak.\" On 15 March 2002 David Ignatius wrote in \"The Washington Post\":\n\nEven the Czechs, who initially put out the reports about Atta's meeting with al-Ani, have gradually backed away. The Czech interior minister, Stanislav Gross, said in October that the two had met in April 2001. That version was altered slightly by Czech Prime Minister Miloš Zeman when he told CNN in November [2001]: 'Atta contacted some Iraqi agent, not to prepare the terrorist attack on [the twin towers] but to prepare [a] terrorist attack on just the building of Radio Free Europe' in Prague. Then, in December, Czech President Václav Havel retreated further, saying there was only 'a 70 percent' chance Atta met with al-Ani.\n\nBut Havel later \"moved to quash the report once and for all\" by making the statement publicly to the White House, as reported in \"The New York Times\". According to the \"Times\" report, \"Czech officials also say they have no hard evidence that Mr. Ani was involved in terrorist activities, although the government did order his ouster in late April 2001.\" \"The New York Times\" report was described as \"a fabrication\" by a Ladislav Špaček, a spokesman for Czech president Václav Havel. But Špaček also \"said Mr. Havel was still certain there was no factual basis behind the report that Mr. Atta met an Iraqi diplomat.\" The \"Times\" story was a potential embarrassment to Czech prime minister Miloš Zeman after \"extensive interviews with Czech and other Western intelligence officials, politicians and people close to the Czech intelligence community revealed that Mr. Zeman had prematurely disclosed an unverified report.\"\n\nSeveral official organizations conducted investigations into the possibility that such a meeting occurred, and they all concluded that the evidence did not support the likelihood of such a meeting.\n\nShortly after September 11, Vice President Dick Cheney asked Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet to look into the claim that Atta had met an Iraqi intelligence agent. Tenet put the Directorate of Operations Jim Pavitt on the case, who reported back to Tenet. On September 21, 2001, Tenet told the President, \"Our Prague office is skeptical about the report. It just doesn't add up.\" Tenet also indicated that other evidence the CIA was able to find, including credit card and telephone records, made such a meeting highly unlikely.\n\nAccording to columnist Robert Novak, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld \"confirmed published reports that there is no evidence placing the presumed leader of the terrorist attacks in the Czech capital.\" According to the January 2003 CIA report \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\", \"the most reliable reporting to date casts doubt on this possibility\" that such a meeting occurred. Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet released \"the most complete public assessment by the agency on the issue\" in a statement to the Senate Armed Services Committee in July 2004, stating \"Although we cannot rule it out, we are increasingly skeptical that such a meeting occurred.\"\n\nJohn E. McLaughlin, who at the time was the Deputy Director of the CIA, described the extent of the Agency's investigation into the claim: \"Well, on something like the Atta meeting in Prague, we went over that every which way from Sunday. We looked at it from every conceivable angle. We peeled open the source, examined the chain of acquisition. We looked at photographs. We looked at timetables. We looked at who was where and when. It is wrong to say that we didn't look at it. In fact, we looked at it with extraordinary care and intensity and fidelity.\"\n\nA senior administration official told Walter Pincus of the \"Washington Post\" that the FBI had concluded that \"there was no evidence Atta left or returned to the U.S. at the time he was supposed to be in Prague.\" FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III outlined the extent of their investigation into the hijacker's whereabouts in a speech in April 2002: \"We ran down literally hundreds of thousands of leads and checked every record we could get our hands on, from flight reservations to car rentals to bank accounts.\" There are no known travel records showing Atta leaving or entering the US at that time, and everything known about Atta's whereabouts suggests that he was in Florida at that time.\n\nThe Czech police chief, Jiří Kolář, \"said there were no documents showing that Atta visited Prague at any time\" in 2001.\n\nIn August 2002, Czech foreign intelligence chief František Bublan publicly backed away from the claim that Atta met al-Ani, saying that rumors of such meetings \"have not been verified or proven.\" The \"Prague Post\" reported that \"Bublan said that promoting a so-called 'Prague connection' between Atta and al-Ani might have been a ploy by U.S. policymakers seeking justifications for a new military action against Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.\"\n\nAccording to an article in the \"Washington Post\" more recently, the Czechs backed away from the claim: \"After months of further investigation, Czech officials determined last year that they could no longer confirm that a meeting took place, telling the Bush administration that al-Ani might have met with someone other than Atta.\" This perception seems confirmed by an associate of al-Ani's who suggested to a reporter that the Czech informant had mistaken another man for Atta. The associate said \"I have sat with the two of them at least twice. The double is an Iraqi who has met with the consul. If someone saw a photo of Atta he might easily mistake the two.\"\n\nIn 2014 Jiří Růžek, the former head of Czech intelligence agency BIS, published his memoirs. Here he claims that the USA tried to push Czech prime minister Miloš Zeman to announce that 9/11 attack was planned with the help of Iraq in Prague. All blame for the false cause of conflict would then fall on Czech authorities.\n\nThe 9/11 Commission also addressed the question of an alleged Prague connection and listed many of the reasons above that such a meeting could not have taken place. The report notes that \"the FBI has gathered intelligence indicating that Atta was in Virginia Beach on April 4 (as evidenced by a bank surveillance camera photo), and in Coral Springs, Florida on April 11, where he and Shehhi leased an apartment. On April 6, 9, 10, and 11, Atta's cellular telephone was used numerous times to call various lodging establishments in Florida from cell sites within Florida. We cannot confirm that he placed those calls. But there are no U.S. records indicating that Atta departed the country during this period.\" Combining FBI and Czech intelligence investigations, \"[n]o evidence has been found that Atta was in the Czech Republic in April 2001.\" The Commission assessed that \"There was no reason for such a meeting, especially considering the risk it would pose to the operation. By April 2001, all four pilots had completed most of their training, and the muscle hijackers were about to begin entering the United States. The available evidence does not support the original Czech report of an Atta-Ani meeting.\"\n\nIn the final analysis, the 9/11 Commission Report makes this statement: \"These findings cannot absolutely rule out the possibility that Atta was in Prague on April 9, 2001. He could have used an alias to travel and a passport under that alias, but this would be an exception to his practice of using his true name while traveling (as he did in January and would in July when he took his next overseas trip).\" (p. 229)\n\nUntil late 2004, many believed that Atta traveled to Prague for one day on May 30, 2000. Nobody claimed he had met al-Ani at that time, but conservative columnist Andrew C. McCarthy wrote in the \"National Review\" that his trip was considered suspicious. Atta was apparently detained because he did not have a travel visa but was not picked up on airport surveillance.\n\nHowever, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported in August 2004 that it was a different Atta who traveled to Prague in May 2000 — a Pakistani businessman also named Mohammed Atta, who spells his name differently from the hijacker — and was turned away because he lacked a visa. The hijacker Mohamed Atta — whose travel papers were in order — went to the Prague airport a couple days later on his way to Newark, creating confusion for some:\n\nOn June 2, the hijacker Mohamed Atta, who had a visa, arrived in Prague by bus from Cologne, Germany, and flew to Newark the next day. Video surveillance cameras at a Prague bus terminal showed him playing slot machines at the station's Happy Days Casino before disappearing.\n\nThe confusion over the two different Attas \"had serious consequences,\" according to Czech reporter Brian Kenety, \"as it laid the groundwork for spurious claims by Czech authorities of a secret meeting in Prague between Atta the hijacker and an Iraqi intelligence agent.\"\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" on 29 September 2004 also reported that a man from Pakistan named Mohammed Atta (spelling his name with two \"m's\" rather than one) flew to the Czech Republic in 2000, confusing the intelligence agency, who thought it was the same Mohamed Atta. In September 2004, Jiří Růžek, the former head of the BIS, told the Czech newspaper \"Mladá fronta Dnes\", \"This information was verified, and it was confirmed that it was a case of the same name. That is all that I recall of it.\" (3 September 2004).\n\nOpposition leaders in the Czech Republic have publicly called this a failure on the part of Czech intelligence. In hopes of resolving the issue, Czech officials hoped to be given access to information from the U.S. investigation but that cooperation was not forthcoming. In May 2004, the Czech newspaper \"Právo\" speculated that the source of the information behind the rumored meeting was actually the discredited INC chief Ahmed Chalabi.\n\nAccording to Con Coughlin, executive foreign editor of \"The Daily Telegraph\", Mohamed Atta is mentioned in a handwritten letter from the former chief of the Iraqi Intelligence Service, Gen. Tahir Jalil Habbush al-Tikriti, to Saddam Hussein. Coughlin said he received the document from a \"senior member of the Iraqi interim government\", though this person \"declined to reveal where and how they obtained it.\"\n\nHabbush's July 1, 2001, letter is labeled \"Intelligence Items\" and is addressed: \"To the President of the Ba'ath Revolution Party and President of the Republic, may God protect you.\" It continues:\n\nMohammed Atta, an Egyptian national, came with Abu Ammer [the real name behind this Arabic alias remains a mystery] and we hosted him in Abu Nidal's house at al-Dora under our direct supervision.\nWe arranged a work program for him for three days with a team dedicated to working with him... He displayed extraordinary effort and showed a firm commitment to lead the team which will be responsible for attacking the targets that we have agreed to destroy.\n\nCoughlin quoted Ayad Allawi giving personal assurance over the document's authenticity: \"We are uncovering evidence all the time of Saddam's involvement with al-Qaeda... But this is the most compelling piece of evidence that we have found so far. It shows that not only did Saddam have contacts with al-Qaeda, he had contact with those responsible for the September 11 attacks.\"\n\nThe letter is now widely recognized as a forgery. Newsweek noted: \"U.S. officials and a leading Iraqi document expert tell NEWSWEEK that the document is most likely a forgery—part of a thriving new trade in dubious Iraqi documents that has cropped up in the wake of the collapse of Saddam's regime.\" According to the newsmagazine, \"The Telegraph story was apparently written with a political purpose: to bolster Bush administration claims of a connection between Al Qaeda and Saddam's regime.\"\n\nIn the 2008 book \"The Way of the World\", author Ron Suskind claims that the Bush administration itself was behind the forgery.\n\nEven further doubt was cast on rumors of such a meeting in December 2003 when Al-Ani, who is in U.S. custody, reportedly denied having ever met Atta., According to \"Newsweek\", it was \"a denial that officials tend to believe given that they have not unearthed a scintilla of evidence that Atta was even in Prague at the time of the alleged rendezvous.\"\n\nAtta's own religious and political convictions made him violently opposed to the Saddam regime; according to the 9/11 Commission Report, \"In his interactions with other students, Atta voiced virulently anti-Semitic and anti-American opinions, ranging from condemnations of what he described as a global Jewish movement centered in New York City that supposedly controlled the financial world and the media, to polemics against governments of the Arab world. To him, Saddam Hussein was an American stooge set up to give Washington an excuse to intervene in the Middle East.\"\n\nVice President Dick Cheney, who was a proponent of the theory that Atta had met al-Ani in Prague, acknowledged in an interview on March 29, 2006: \"We had one report early on from another intelligence service that suggested that the lead hijacker, Mohamed Atta, had met with Iraqi intelligence officials in Prague, Czechoslovakia. And that reporting waxed and waned where the degree of confidence in it, and so forth, has been pretty well knocked down now at this stage, that that meeting ever took place.\"\n\nOn September 10, 2006, Cheney responded to questions from Tim Russert about Atta in Prague on Meet the Press:\n\nOn September 8, 2006, the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released \"Phase II\" of its report on prewar intelligence on Iraq. In the report, the following is stated regarding Atta in Prague:\n\nThe report also contains a full page of information with regards to Atta in Prague that was redacted. \"Newsweek\" reports that the blacked-out portion of the Report involved a CIA cable that lays out the controversy. According to \"Newsweek\", \"Democrats charged in a written statement that intelligence officials had failed to demonstrate 'that disclosing the [cable] ... would reveal sources and methods or otherwise harm national security.' The Democrats also complained that officials' refusal to declassify the cable 'represents an improper use of classification authority by the intelligence community to shield the White House.'\" \"Newsweek\" goes on to report: \n\nCIA spokesman Paul Gimigliano asserted that the classification had nothing to do with protecting the Bush Administration: \"When CIA did not agree to a specific public release, its case was based on current intelligence equities and a desire to preserve the candor essential to good internal discussion of complex issues. It's simply wrong to suggest the goal was to protect the White House.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10154305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10154305", "title": "New Talent Singing Awards Calgary Audition", "text": "New Talent Singing Awards Calgary Audition\n\nNew Talent Singing Awards Calgary Audition (Chinese: 新秀歌唱大賽卡加利選拔賽), or \"NTSA Calgary\" for short, is an annual singing contest organized by Fairchild Television and Fairchild Radio 94.7 FM in Alberta. It selects the Calgary candidate for the New Talent Singing Awards International Finals held in Hong Kong.\n\nThe contest was first established as New Talent Singing Awards Alberta Audition (Chinese: 新秀歌唱大賽亞省選拔賽) in 1996. The contest included contestants from both Edmonton and Calgary. However, since 2005, the contest was renamed to Calgary New Talent Singing Awards (Chinese: 卡加利新秀歌唱大賽), as FM 94.7 is based in Calgary. In 2009, the name changed again to its current one to match its Vancouver and Toronto counterparts.\n\n\n\nFaichild TV would sometimes hire Asian singers or local artists to be the Special Guest(s) performing in the finals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32386247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32386247", "title": "Open House Melbourne", "text": "Open House Melbourne\n\nOpen House Melbourne (OHM) is an event held in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia that showcases many of the city's buildings to the public. This annual event is held on the last weekend in July since 2008.\n\n\"Open House Melbourne\" is also a not-for-profit association that runs the OHM, as well as other annual events, providing the public a free and rare opportunity to discover a hidden wealth of architectural, engineering and historic buildings nestled around the city. Residents, visitors, families, design buffs, architecture fans can explore great contemporary, historic and sustainable buildings and spaces located in and around the Melbourne City Centre, Carlton, East Melbourne, Southbank and Docklands. Well known buildings not usually open to the public are open for free public tours. Among the buildings included are historical landmarks, contemporary buildings, galleries, theatres, sporting grounds and places of worship. \n\nThe inaugural OHM 2008 event saw 8 buildings open and more than 30,000 visits across the day. Since then, the event has grown and the 2010 event expanded to 59 buildings, incorporating Docklands in addition to Melbourne’s CBD, and attracted almost 65,000 visitors. \n\nIn the 2011 event 75 buildings opened their doors and attracted 100,000\nvisitors.\n\nFor its fifth year, the 2012 event featured 100 buildings and attracted 135,000\nvisitors. \n\nIn the 2013 event 111 buildings opened over the weekend and attracted 130,000 visitors.\n\nThe 2016 event featured over 100 buildings. \n\nOpen House Melbourne is an initiative of the Committee for Melbourne Future Focus Group and runs in association with the State of Design Festival.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45558253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45558253", "title": "Paradox of competition", "text": "Paradox of competition\n\nParadox of competition in economics names a model of a situation where measures, which offer a competitive advantage to an individual economic entity, lead to nullification of advantage if all others behave in the same way. In some cases the finite state is even more disadvantageous for everybody than before (for the totality as well as for the individual). The term \"Paradox of competition\" () was coined by German economist Wolfgang Stützel. It is about a case of a rationality trap.\n\nStützel distinguishes three categories of paradoxes of competition:\n\n\nWolfgang Stützel analyses paradoxes of competition using the concept of Balances Mechanics (). Specifically he defines and distinguishes validness which is valid for individual economic entities respectively individual groups (\"Partial sentence\"), and validness which counts for the totality of economic entities (\"Global sentence\").\n\nConcerning the pursuit of export surpluses he distinguishes as follows:\n\nOn overall economy examination (macroeconomics, aggregation problem) the benefit which individual economies want to achieve for themselves (legitimately) often appears as so called \"lead effect\" as against an inevitable \"lag effect\" of others. When lag effects are condoned, no paradox of competition arises. Solely because \"individual supply and individual demand\" turn out to be more elastic than \"overall supply and overall demand\" the classical paradox of competition can occur.\n\n\n\nThis article is a translated version of the German Wikipedia article.\n"}
{"id": "54562421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54562421", "title": "Phoolan Devi (film)", "text": "Phoolan Devi (film)\n\nPhoolan Devi is a Bengali action movie of 1985 directed by Ashok Roy. This movie was loosely based on the life of Indian bandit turned politician Smt. Phoolan Devi. The film was also released in Hindi with the name \"Kahani Phoolvati Ki\"'. Popular hero of the Bollywood movies, Joy Mukherjee played the role of main antagonist in this film.\n\nYoung Phoolan was forced to marry an old man \"Puttilal\" by her parents. Puttilal has another wife who started torture to Phoolan. One day Phoolan met with her close friend Meena who turned into bandit due to atrocities of Thakur brothers. Those Thakur brother, Bara Thakur and Chota Thakur terrorize the villagers. Bikram Mallah, a trusted hand of Thakurs protests such inhuman activities of them. Whilst those brothers attack on Phoolan, Bikram stops them and took charge of the Thakur's gang forcefully. Subsequently he married Phoolan. Thakur brothers took revenge to kill Bikram and raped Phoolan. They tagged her mercilessly and few villagers gang raped her in all day long. Escaping from their hand Phoolan made her own gang and became \"Dakait\" (Decoit) leader. Thereafter she killed all the rapists one by one including two Thakur brothers.\n\n"}
{"id": "3050706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3050706", "title": "Rasputin – Miracles Lie in the Eye of the Beholder", "text": "Rasputin – Miracles Lie in the Eye of the Beholder\n\nRasputin – Miracles Lie in the Eye of the Beholder is a rock opera about the mysterious and infamous Russian peasant, Grigori Rasputin. Written by Michael Rapp, musician and author of several musicals and film scores, \"Rasputin\" is a triple CD concept album featuring Ted Neeley (of Jesus Christ Superstar fame) as Rasputin, British actor John Hurt as the Narrator, and Amanda McBroom as Tsarina Alexandra. On December 18, 1999, a single night showcase of \"Rasputin\" was performed at the Grand Opera House in Wilmington, Delaware featuring:\n\n\"Rasputin\" is one of many projects in line for a full production in the coming future, pending cast availability.\n\n\nAct I — Gold Disc\nAct II – Green Disc\nAct III — Purple Disc\n"}
{"id": "16022633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16022633", "title": "Rip the Runway", "text": "Rip the Runway\n\nRip the Runway is an annual fashion show and music show broadcast by BET, held at the Hammerstein Ballroom in New York City.\n\nThe first \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Fonzworth Bentley and Eva Pigford.\n\nThe 2006 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by LL Cool J and Gabrielle Union.\n\nThe 2007 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Ciara and Chris Brown.\n\nThe 2008 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Nelly and Lauren London.\n\nPerformers\n\nThe 2009 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Derek Luke and Joy Bryant.\n\nPerformers\n\nThe 2010 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Nicki Minaj and Pooch Hall.\n\nPerformers\n\nThe 2011 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Mehcad Brooks and Selita Ebanks.\n\n\nThe 2012 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Selita Ebanks and Pooch Hall. (This is the second time the two host).\n\n\nThe 2013 \"Rip the Runway\" show was hosted by Kelly Rowland and Boris Kodjoe\n\nPerformers\n\n"}
{"id": "1196177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1196177", "title": "Scarsdale Concours d'Elegance", "text": "Scarsdale Concours d'Elegance\n\nThe Scarsdale Concours (d'Elegance) is an annual Concours d'Elegance (competitive auto show) that takes place in the center of the Town of Scarsdale, New York. It features over 100 exotic cars ranging from Ferrari to Rolls Royce. The show is a fundraiser for charity, helping organizations such as the Paulie strong and Scarsdale police department of Westchester and Habitat for Humanity. Funds are generated from donations from sponsors, donations from participants and voluntary admission donations. Since 2004, the show has raised over $350,000 for charity. \n"}
{"id": "22264264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22264264", "title": "Shnit international shortfilmfestival", "text": "Shnit international shortfilmfestival\n\nThe shnit international shortfilmfestival is an annual international film festival based in Berne, Switzerland.\n\nThe festival was founded in 2003 under the name shnit Kurzfilmnächte.\n\nOver the course of the next couple of years the event for short films of all kind quickly evolved into a festival with an international competition, and a big variety of special programmes, workshops and public film talks.\n\nSince 2005 the shnit shortfilmfestival takes place in the PROGR center for cultural production and in various cinemas in the old town of Berne.\n\nSince 2007 the festival is host of the Slam-Movie-Night and also holds the REALTIME film challenge.\n\nWith 6 festival locations, more than 65 screenings and an attendance of around 15'000 the shnit shortfilmfestival is the largest festival of its kind in Switzerland.\n\nMore than 2000 short films from all continents are annually submitted to the selection process.\nThe centre point of the festival is the international competition shnit OPEN COMPETITION. \nEach OPEN programme consists of about 6 to 7 short films (occasionally with good animations too), lasting about 80-minute.\nThere are usually 10 OPEN COMPETITION Programmes that are programmed and screened in each participating city/playground. \nAmong the OPEN COMPETITION entries, an official festival jury awards films in the following categories:\n\n- SMART JOE (films under 4 minutes)\n- MAGIC JACK (films from 4 to 10 minutes)\n- LONG JOHN (films over 10 minutes)\n\nThe total prize money of the shnit-Open is CHF 100'000 (approximately US$100,000).\n\nIn addition, audience could attend the screenings and vote their favourite film in all the cities.\nChosen film with the highest votes get a good chance to win 'AUDIENCE AWARD' conferred by the shnit competition organizer.\n\nFilm competitions held in each city award their best film (e.g. Swiss Award, South Africa Award, German Award, Austria Award) with their respective film awards/prizes.\n\nBesides the OPEN COMPETITION screenings, other interesting short films are also curated into different programme sections changing every Edition.\nWithin the following section are 90-minute programme blocks where every Playground screens the selected programmes:\n\n- A REAL TREAT \n- OUT OF CURIOSITY\n- FOR SPECIAL INTEREST\n\nBesides Bern (CH), the festival soon attracted participation from different cities including Cologne (DE) in 2009, Cape Town (ZA) in 2010, as well as Vienna, San Jose and Singapore in 2011.\nThese cities will be screening the OPEN COMPETITION short films over a few days at the same time, in the first week of October every year.\nThese cities are known as PLAYGROUNDS, and each runs a set of similar festival programmes with their available local resources in terms of sponsorships, partnerships and grants.\nAudience are welcome to vote for their favourite film during the screenings. Results will be sent to Bern to award the 'AUDIENCE AWARD' film at the end of the week.\n\nIn 2012, Switzerland Embassy of Singapore supported the festival in Singapore.\n\n2005\n\n2006\n\n2007\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011 LONG JOHN JURY\n\n2011 MAGIC JACK JURY\n\n2011 SMART JOE JURY\n\n2011 SWISS MADE JURY\n\n2011 MADE IN AUSTRIA JURY\n\n2011 MADE IN GERMANY JURY\n\n2011 MADE IN SOUTH AFRICA JURY\n\n"}
{"id": "8791492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8791492", "title": "Siege of Naxos (499 BC)", "text": "Siege of Naxos (499 BC)\n\nThe Siege of Naxos (499 BC) was a failed attempt by the Milesian tyrant Aristagoras, operating with support from, and in the name of the Persian Empire of Darius the Great, to conquer the island of Naxos. It was the opening act of the Greco-Persian Wars, which would ultimately last for 50 years.\n\nAristagoras had been approached by exiled Naxian aristocrats, who were seeking to return to their island. Seeing an opportunity to bolster his position in Miletus, Aristagoras sought the help of his overlord, the Persian king Darius the Great, and the local satrap, Artaphernes to conquer Naxos. Consenting to the expedition, the Persians assembled a force of 200 triremes under the command of Megabates.\n\nThe expedition quickly descended into a debacle. Aristagoras and Megabates quarreled on the journey to Naxos, and someone (possibly Megabates) informed the Naxians of the imminent arrival of the force. When they arrived, the Persians and Ionians were thus faced with a city well prepared to undergo siege. The expeditionary force duly settled down to besiege the defenders, but after four months without success, ran out of money and were forced to return to Asia Minor.\n\nIn the aftermath of this disastrous expedition, and sensing his imminent removal as tyrant, Aristagoras chose to incite the whole of Ionia into rebellion against Darius the Great. The revolt then spread to Caria and Cyprus. Three years of Persian campaigning across Asia Minor followed, with no decisive effect, before the Persians regrouped and made straight for the epicentre of the rebellion at Miletus. At the Battle of Lade, the Persians decisively defeated the Ionian fleet and effectively ended the rebellion. Although Asia Minor had been brought back into the Persian fold, Darius vowed to punish Athens and Eretria, who had supported the revolt. In 492 BC therefore, the first Persian invasion of Greece, would begin as a consequence of the failed attack on Naxos, and the Ionian Revolt.\n\nPractically the only primary source for the Ionian Revolt is the Greek historian Herodotus. Herodotus, who has been called the 'Father of History', was born in 484 BC in Halicarnassus, Asia Minor (then under Persian overlordship). He wrote his 'Enquiries' (Greek—\"Historia\"; English—\"(The) Histories\") around 440–430 BC, trying to trace the origins of the Greco-Persian Wars, which would still have been relatively recent history (the wars finally ending in 450 BC). Herodotus's approach was entirely novel, and at least in Western society, he does seem to have invented 'history' as we know it. As Holland has it: \"For the first time, a chronicler set himself to trace the origins of a conflict not to a past so remote so as to be utterly fabulous, nor to the whims and wishes of some god, nor to a people's claim to manifest destiny, but rather explanations he could verify personally.\"\n\nSome subsequent ancient historians, despite following in his footsteps, criticised Herodotus, starting with Thucydides. Nevertheless, Thucydides chose to begin his history where Herodotus left off (at the Siege of Sestos), and therefore evidently felt that Herodotus's history was accurate enough not to need re-writing or correcting. Plutarch criticised Herodotus in his essay \"On The Malignity of Herodotus\", describing Herodotus as \"Philobarbaros\" (barbarian-lover), for not being pro-Greek enough, which suggests that Herodotus might actually have done a reasonable job of being even-handed. A negative view of Herodotus was passed on to Renaissance Europe, though he remained well read. However, since the 19th century his reputation has been dramatically rehabilitated by archaeological finds which have repeatedly confirmed his version of events. The prevailing modern view is that Herodotus generally did a remarkable job in his \"Historia\", but that some of his specific details (particularly troop numbers and dates) should be viewed with skepticism. Nevertheless, there are still some historians who believe Herodotus made up much of his story.\n\nIn the Greek Dark Ages that followed the collapse of the Mycenaean civilization, significant numbers of Greeks had emigrated to Asia Minor and settled there. These settlers were from three tribal groups: the Aeolians, Dorians and Ionians. The Ionians had settled about the coasts of Lydia and Caria, founding the twelve cities which made up Ionia. These cities were Miletus, Myus and Priene in Caria; Ephesus, Colophon, Lebedos, Teos, Clazomenae, Phocaea and Erythrae in Lydia; and the islands of Samos and Chios. The cities of Ionia had remained independent until they were conquered by the famous Lydian king Croesus, in around 560 BC. The Ionian cities then remained under Lydian rule until Lydia was in turn conquered by the nascent Achaemenid Empire of Cyrus the Great. The Persians found the Ionians difficult to rule. Elsewhere in the empire, Cyrus was able to identify elite native groups to help him rule his new subjects—such as the priesthood of Judea. No such group existed in Greek cities at this time; while there was usually an aristocracy, this was inevitably divided into feuding factions. The Persians thus settled for the sponsoring a tyrant in each Ionian city, even though this drew them into the Ionians' internal conflicts. Furthermore, a tyrant might develop an independent streak, and have to be replaced. The tyrants themselves faced a difficult task; they had to deflect the worst of their fellow citizens' hatred, while staying in the favour of the Persians.\n\nAbout 40 years after the Persian conquest of Ionia, and in the reign of the fourth Persian king, Darius the Great, the stand-in Milesian tyrant Aristagoras found himself in this familiar predicament. Aristagoras's uncle Histiaeus had accompanied Darius on campaign in 513 BC, and when offered a reward, had asked for part of the conquered Thracian territory. Although this was granted, Histiaeus's ambition alarmed Darius's advisors, and Histiaeus was thus further 'rewarded' by being compelled to remain in Susa as Darius's \"Royal Table-Companion\". Taking over from Histiaeus, Aristagoras was faced with bubbling discontent in Miletus.\n\nIndeed, this period in Greek history is remarkable for the social and political upheaval in many Greek cities, particularly the establishment of the first democracy in Athens. The island of Naxos, part of the Cyclades group in the Aegean Sea, was also in this period affected by political turmoil. Naxos had been ruled by the tyrant Lygdamis, a protege of the Athenian tyrant Peisistratos, until around 524 BC, when he was overthrown by the Spartans. After this, a native aristocracy seems to have flourished, and Naxos became one of the most prosperous and powerful of the Aegean islands. Despite its success, Naxos was not immune to class tensions and internal strife, and shortly before 500 BC, the population seized power, expelling the aristocrats and establishing a democracy.\n\nIn 500 BC, Aristagoras was approached by some of the exiles from Naxos, who asked him to help restore them to the control of the island. Seeing an opportunity to strengthen his position in Miletus by conquering Naxos, Aristagoras approached the satrap of Lydia, Artaphernes, with a proposal. If Artaphernes provided an army, Aristagoras would conquer the island in Darius's name, and he would then give Artaphernes a share of the spoils to cover the cost of raising the army. Furthermore, Aristagoras suggested that once Naxos fell, the other Cyclades would also quickly follow, and he even suggested that Euboea could be attacked on the same expedition. Artaphernes agreed in principle, and asked Darius for permission to launch the expedition. Darius assented to this, and a force of 200 triremes was assembled in order to attack Naxos the following year.\n\nThe Persian fleet was duly assembled in the spring of 499 BC, and sailed to Ionia. Artaphernes put his (and Darius's) cousin Megabates in charge of the expedition, and dispatched him to Miletus with the Persian army. They were joined there by Aristagoras and the Milesian forces, and then embarked and set sail. In order to avoid warning the Naxians, the fleet initially sailed north, towards the Hellespont, but when they arrived at Chios they doubled back and headed south for Naxos.\n\nHerodotus recounts that Megabates made inspections of the ships (probably whilst beached for the night), and came across one ship from Myndus which had not posted any sentries. Megabates ordered his guard to find the captain of the ship, Scylax, and then had the captain thrust into one of the ship's oar holes with his head outside and his body inside the ship. News reached Aristagoras of the treatment of his friend and he went to Megabates and asked him to reconsider his decision. When Megabates refused to grant Aristagoras's wishes, Aristagoras simply cut the captain loose himself. Predictably, Megabates was furious with Aristagoras, who in turn retorted \"But you, what have you to do with these matters? Did not Artaphrenes send you to obey me and to sail wherever I bid you? Why are you so meddlesome?\". According to Herodotus, Megabates was so enraged by this that he sent messengers to the Naxians to warn them of the approach of the Persian force.\n\nModern historians, doubting that a Persian commander would have sabotaged his own invasion, have suggested several other possible scenarios. It is, however, impossible to know exactly how the Naxians became aware of the invasion, but undoubtedly they were aware, and began to make preparations. Herodotus tells us that the Naxians had previously had no inkling of the expedition, but that when news arrived they brought everything in from the fields, gathered enough food with which to survive a siege and reinforced their walls.\n\nHerodotus does not provide complete numbers for either side, but gives some idea of the strength of the two forces. Clearly, since they were fighting on home territory, the Naxian forces could theoretically have included the whole population. Herodotus says in his narrative that the \"Naxians have eight thousand men that bear shields\", which suggests that there were 8,000 men capable of equipping themselves as hoplites. These men would have formed a strong backbone to the Naxian resistance.\n\nThe Persian force was primarily based around 200 triremes. It is not clear whether there were additional transport ships. The standard complement of a trireme was 200 men, including 14 marines. In the second Persian invasion of Greece, each Persian ship had carried thirty extra marines, and this was probably also true in the first invasion when the whole invasion force was apparently carried in triremes. Furthermore, the Chian ships at the Battle of Lade also carried 40 marines each. This suggests that a trireme could probably carry a maximum of 40–45 soldiers—triremes seem to have been easily destabilised by extra weight. If the Persian force at Naxos was similarly made up, then it would have contained somewhere in the region of 8,000 to 9,000 soldiers (in addition to many unarmed rowers).\n\nWhen the Ionians and Persians arrived at Naxos, they were faced by a well-fortified and supplied city. Herodotus does not explicitly say, but this was presumably the eponymous capital of Naxos. He provides few details of the military actions that ensued, although there is a suggestion that there was an initial assault on the city, which was repelled. The Ionians and Persians thus settled down to besiege the city. However, after four months, the Persians had run out of money, with Aristagoras also spending a great deal. Thoroughly demoralised, the expedition prepared to return to Asia Minor empty handed. Before leaving, they built a stronghold for the exiled Naxian aristocrats on the island. This was a typical strategy in the Greek world for those exiled by internal strife, giving them a base from which to quickly return, as events permitted.\n\nWith the failure of his attempt to conquer Naxos, Aristagoras found himself in dire straits; he was unable to repay Artaphernes the costs of the expedition, and had moreover alienated himself from the Persian royal family. He fully expected to be stripped of his position by Artaphernes. In a desperate attempt to save himself, Aristagoras chose to incite his own subjects, the Milesians, to revolt against their Persian masters, thereby beginning the Ionian Revolt. Although Herodotus presents the revolt as a consequence of Aristagoras's personal motives, it is clear that Ionia must have been ripe for rebellion anyway, the primary grievance being the tyrants installed by the Persians. Aristagoras's actions have thus been likened to tossing a flame into a kindling box; they incited rebellion across Ionia (and Aeolis and Doris), and tyrannies were everywhere abolished, and democracies established in their place.\n\nHaving brought all of Hellenic Asia Minor into revolt, Aristagoras evidently realised that the Greeks would need other allies in order to fight the Persians. In the winter of 499 BC, he sailed to mainland Greece to try to recruit allies. He failed to persuade the Spartans, but the cities of Athens and Eretria agreed to support the rebellion. In the spring of 498 BC, an Athenian force of twenty triremes, accompanied by five from Eretria, for a total of twenty-five triremes, set sail for Ionia. They joined up with the main Ionian force near Ephesus. \nThis force was then guided by the Ephesians through mountains to Sardis, Artaphernes's satrapal capital. The Greeks caught the Persians unawares, and were able to capture the lower city. However, the lower city then caught on fire, and the Greeks, demoralised, then retreated from the city, and began to make their way back to Ephesus. The Persian troops in Asia Minor followed the Greek force, catching them outside Ephesus. It is clear that the demoralised and tired Greeks were no match for the Persians, and were completely routed in the battle which ensued at Ephesus. The Ionians who escaped the battle made for their own cities, while the remaining Athenians and Eretrians managed to return to their ships, and sailed back to Greece.\n\nDespite these setbacks, the revolt spread further. The Ionians sent men to the Hellespont and Propontis, and captured Byzantium and the other nearby cities. They also persuaded the Carians to join the rebellion. Furthermore, seeing the spread of the rebellion, the kingdoms of Cyprus also revolted against Persian rule without any outside persuasion. For the next three years, the Persian army and navy were fully occupied with fighting the rebellions in Caria and Cyprus, and Ionia seems to have had an uneasy peace during these years. At the height of the Persian counter-offensive, Aristagoras, sensing the untenability of his position, decided to abandon his position as leader of Miletus, and of the revolt, and he left Miletus. Herodotus, who evidently has a rather negative view of him, suggests that Aristagoras simply lost his nerve and fled.\n\nBy the sixth year of the revolt (494 BC), the Persian forces had regrouped. The available land forces were gathered into one army, and were accompanied by a fleet supplied by the re-subjugated Cypriots, and the Egyptians, Cilicians and Phoenicians. The Persians headed directly to Miletus, paying little attention to other strongholds, presumably intending to tackle the revolt at its centre. The Ionians sought to defend Miletus by sea, leaving the defense of Miletus to the Milesians. The Ionian fleet gathered at the island of Lade, off the coast of Miletus. The Persians were uncertain of victory at Lade, so attempted to persuade some of the Ionian contingents to defect. Although this was unsuccessful at first, when the Persians finally attacked the Ionians, the Samian contingent accepted the Persian offer. As the Persian and Ionian fleets met, the Samians sailed away from the battle, causing the collapse of the Ionian battle line. Although the Chian contingent and a few other ships remained, and fought bravely against the Persians, the battle was lost.\n\nWith defeat at Lade, the Ionian Revolt was all but ended. The next year, the Persians reduced the last rebel strongholds, and began the process of bringing peace to the region. The Ionian Revolt constituted the first major conflict between Greece and the Persian Empire, and as such represents the first phase of the Greco-Persian Wars. Although Asia Minor had been brought back into the Persian fold, Darius vowed to punish Athens and Eretria for their support for the revolt. Moreover, seeing that the myriad city states of Greece posed a continued threat to the stability of his empire, he decided to conquer the whole of Greece. In 492 BC, the first Persian invasion of Greece, the next phase of the Greco-Persian Wars, would begin as a direct consequence of the Ionian Revolt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57043837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57043837", "title": "Technosearch", "text": "Technosearch\n\nTechnosearch is the Annual Technical Festival of MANIT Bhopal. Since its inception in 2003, Technosearch has established itself as the pioneer of various technical as well as cultural events. The participation for Technosearch has been growing exponentially, easily evident from the footfall of over 15000 in the 2017 installment.<mapframe latitude=\"23.2410\" longitude=\"77.4069\" zoom=\"12\" width=\"342\" height=\"290\" align=\"right\">{\n}</mapframe>\nTechnosearch is studded with workshops, seminars and riveting ProNites to sum up the day's events. With previous rosters of artists like Hardy Sandhu, DJ Carnivore and Siana Catherine, TS has come forward as the largest Technical Fest in Central India.\n\nTechnosearch started out in 2003 as a small idea of creating a fest as an ode to the technical culture of NIT-Bhopal. It aims to create practical knowledge and infuse the spirit of curiosity and innovation in the students of NIT- Bhopal. Through the years, Technosearch outgrew the boundaries of MANIT, Bhopal and has now become the grandest technical festival in Central India. Technosearch organizes a wide range of contests, workshops and fun-events encompassing every genre of technology with the aim to infuse a scientific and rational temperament in the young minds.\n\nMarket Guru: Marketing and management event by Intellect Browsers' Consortium (IBC) with the popular tagline \"Invest. Build. Compete\".\n\nIlluminati: Full scale literary event by Drishtant, the literary society of MANIT, Bhopal.\n\nCode Kriegers:Can you win the game of codes, all you need is to crack some. A popular coding event organised by Vision, technical society of MANIT, Bhopal.\n\nKodachrome: A biannual photography exibition organised by the PIXEL, photography and animation society of MANIT, Bhopal.\n\nRobo-FIFA: Experience a real time rigorous battle between robots on football field, another one of flagship event of Vision.\n\nQuizzotica: A quizzing competition organised by Quizzers Club MANIT.\n\nCrime Alley: A college wide treasure hunt organised by Rotaract Club, MANIT.\n\nEmbedded Systems Workshop \n\nQuadcopter Workshop\n\nInternet of Things Workshop\n\nHumanoid Robotics Workshop\n\nAutomobile Workshop\n"}
{"id": "58269651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58269651", "title": "Thackeray (film)", "text": "Thackeray (film)\n\nThackeray is an upcoming Bollywood biographical drama film, based on the life of Bal Thackeray, the founder of the Indian political party Shiv Sena. It is being directed by Abhijit Panse and has been written by Shiv Sena politician Sanjay Raut. Nawazuddin Siddiqui plays the titular role of Bal Thackeray. The official teaser was released on 21 December, 2017.\n\nThe biopic is scheduled for release on 23 January 2019, the 93rd birthday of Bal Thackeray.\n\n\n10. Nawazuddin Siddiqui Thackeray Movie Collection, Budget info, Star Cast, Release Date, Movie Wiki Hindi\n"}
{"id": "6397442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6397442", "title": "The Belize Times", "text": "The Belize Times\n\nThe Belize Times is a Belizean newspaper published once a week and the official organ of the People's United Party (PUP). It was established in 1956 and sells for BZ$1\n\nIts offices are located at the PUP's Belize City headquarters at 3 Queen Street, Belize City. As of August 2006, it has published over 4,500 issues, making it the longest continuously published newspaper in Belize since 1950.\n\nIts motto is \"The Truth Shall Make You Free\", a shortened form of Bible verse John 8:32: \"And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.\" (King James Version)\n\n\nThe \"Times\" began publishing in 1956 under the patronage of then leader George Price, who had just ousted ten members of the PUP from its central committee, including Philip Goldson, owner and editor of the \"Belize Billboard\".\n\nFor much of the 1980s the newspaper was presented as \"The Sunday Times\"; it resumed printing under the \"Belize Times\" moniker in the 1990s.\n\nLongtime columnist Emory King died in August 2007. King's column officially ceased with the 19 August 2007 issue of the \"Times\".\n\nAs the official organ of the PUP, \"The Belize Times\" is consistently critical of policies supported by the opposition United Democratic Party. As a result, the \"Times\" has been involved in several lawsuits and controversies. Though the major political parties rarely sue each other over accusations printed in the other's newspaper, allegations have at times become serious enough to warrant a response.\n\nThe \"Times\" has also gained a reputation for its support for the arts through its weekly reviews of many Belizean artists.\n\n\"The Belize Times\" answered to a libel suit in the Supreme Court, filed by attorney Lois Young and her former husband, then-Leader of the Opposition Dean Barrow over articles printed in the newspaper in October 2006 which they claimed defamed Barrow. Chief Justice Abdulai Conteh issued an injunction, which the \"Times\" appealed.\n\nOn 9 November 2006, Conteh lifted the injunction and set the case for January 2007.\n\nIn February 2007, Conteh ruled against the \"Times\" and set damages at BZ$40,000, the third highest award (including lawyer fees and costs) in Belizean legal history. The \"Times\" will consider an appeal, and in its Friday issue for that week continued to proclaim its innocence and accuse other media houses of unfair treatment of PUP public figures, which it says approaches libel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55144968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55144968", "title": "Vento bands", "text": "Vento bands\n\nVento bands are tiered values for compensation for damages payable for injury to feelings and psychiatric injury awarded by the Employment Tribunals of England and Wales and of Scotland. Their name is derived from the case of \"Vento v Chief Constable of West Yorkshire Police\" (No. 2) (2002) when the Court of Appeal of England and Wales identified three broad bands of compensation for injury to feelings awards which were distinct from compensation awards for psychiatric or similar personal injury.\n\nThe lower band was initially set at £500 to £5,000 (less serious cases); the middle band was set at £5,000 to £15,000 (cases that did not\nmerit an award in the upper band); and the upper band was set at £15,000 to £25,000 (the most serious cases), with the most exceptional cases capable of exceeding £25,000.\n\nFollowing the decision of the Court of Appeal in England and Wales in \"De Souza v Vinci Construction (UK) Ltd.\" [2017], the Presidents of the Employment Tribunals in England and Wales and in Scotland launched a consultation exercise on 20 July 2017 on proposed changes to the bands and, supported by a majority of responses in favour of raising the bands, they were uprated with effect from 11 September 2017. The revised bands will consist of a lower band of £800 to £8,400 (less serious cases); a middle band of £8,400 to £25,200 (cases that did not merit an award in the upper band); and an upper band of £25,200 to £42,000 (the most serious cases), with the most exceptional cases capable of exceeding £42,000.\n"}
{"id": "3113254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3113254", "title": "Youth of the Nation", "text": "Youth of the Nation\n\n\"Youth of the Nation\" is a song by American Christian metal band P.O.D. It was released in December 2001 as the second single to come from their second major label album, \"Satellite\". It was inspired in part by the school shootings at Santana High School and Columbine High School. While \"Satellite\" contained numerous hit songs, \"Youth of the Nation\" was the band's only No. 1 hit on the Modern Rock chart and reached No. 28 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, their only single to reach the top 40, and No. 6 on the Mainstream Rock chart. The song was included in \"Weird Al\" Yankovic's polka medley \"Angry White Boy Polka\" from his 2003 album \"Poodle Hat\", despite lead singer Sonny Sandoval's mixed race background. It was also featured as downloadable content in the music video games \"Guitar Hero 5\" and \"Rock Band 3\".\n\nThe song's inspiration stems from a trip when the band was on their way to record for \"Satellite\" on March 5, 2001. They were held up in traffic and discovered that the reason was a shooting at Santana High School where a fifteen-year-old student named Charles Andrew Williams killed two and wounded thirteen. The album was consequently delayed, and the band was inspired to write \"Youth of the Nation.\"\n\nIn a 2008 interview, guitarist Marcos Curiel described the event:\n\nCuriel added, \"When you can hear something that's going to uplift you like 'Alive' or something that's going to bring out knowledge like 'Youth of the Nation,' we've done our jobs as an artist.\"\n\n\"Youth of the Nation\" contains three stories of adolescent tragedy in American culture. It begins by describing a teenager unknowingly skating to school only to be shot by a fellow student. Lyrics go on to speculate whether or not the boy who committed the act felt unloved. Following the chorus, a 12-year-old girl called \"little Suzie\" is depicted as having been abandoned by her father and subsequently \"finding love in all the wrong places.\" Finally, another teen known as \"Johnny boy\" fails to fit in with his peers and ultimately commits suicide by firearm, \"[telling] the world how he felt with the sound of a gat.\"\n\nThe music video for \"Youth of the Nation\" has the band performing the song in a room filled with photos of adolescents as seen on the single cover. It revolves around a group of teenagers taking a cross country trip in a car from New York City to Venice Beach in Los Angeles via Western Pennsylvania (New Kensington, Arnold, Cheswick, Harmarville) and other locales. The book \"On the Road\" by Jack Kerouac can be seen on the dashboard of the car. Directed by Paul Fedor, the video found significant airplay on MTV2.\n\nThe video features a prefamous Joel David Moore as the teenager driving the car.\n\nMarcos Curiel noted that censorship of the video came into play due to Viacom: \"We had a girl sitting on the hood of the car going down the highway trying to be free-spirited, you know? [...] But, Viacom and MTV had us edit that out because kids are so easily influenced.\"\n\n\n\n"}
