{"id": "6280742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6280742", "title": "African theology", "text": "African theology\n\nAfrican theology is Christian theology or black theology from the perspective of the African cultural context. Although there are very old Christian traditions on the continent, in the last centuries Christianity in Africa has been determined to a large extent by western forms of Christianity, brought by colonization and mission, until the mid-20th century.\n\nThere has been some debate among theologians about the relation of African theology to Black theology. During the 1970s Black theology developed in South Africa, where the main concern was liberation from apartheid, while African theology developed in other parts of the continent.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, African theology as a theological field came into being. This movement began to protest against negative colonial and missionary interpretations of the religion and culture in Africa. Realizing that theology is a contextual phenomenon, African Christians began to read the bible using their own cultural lens, which of course resulted in some interpretations that did not always agree with how Western theology interpreted things. As such, African theology stands on the shoulders of the early African independent churches that broke away from missionary churches in the late 19th century or early 20th century. African theology is engaged to shape Christianity in an African way by adapting and using African concepts and ideas. \n\nAfrican theologians such as Bolaji Idowu, John Mbiti, and Kwesi Dickson have given an analysis and interpretation of the African traditional religion and point to its relation to the Christian faith. Lamin Sanneh and Kwame Bediako have argued for the importance of vernacularization of the bible and theology. Kwame Bediako and John Pobee have developed an African Christology in terms of the ancestors. \n\nThere is also a movement of African female theologians, organised in \"The Circle of Concerned African Women Theologians\", inaugurated in 1989 by the Ghanaian Mercy Amba Oduyoye. Nowadays this is a movement of hundreds of women theologians from several African countries and with different religious backgrounds. The general coordinator of the Circle have been Oduyoye, Musimbi Kanyoro, Isabel Phiri, and, currently, Malawian Fulata Moyo.\n\nRecently, African evangelicals have also begun to wrestle with the quest of developing a Christian theology which has African context in mind. In this direction, African evangelicals have taken initiative to develop an African Bible commentary. Even though this is not a critical commentary, it shows a quest by African evangelicals to engage traditional and contemporary issues in Africa from an evangelical perspective. Secondly, African evangelicals have also taken initiative in the development of Christian ethics and texts on systematic theology which engage the various issues facing most African Christians. For example, Samuel Kunhiyop has engaged Christian ethics and systematic theology from an African evangelical perspective. Similarly, Matthew Michael has engaged systematic theology from the vantage point of African traditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48736516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48736516", "title": "Amar Singh Majithia", "text": "Amar Singh Majithia\n\nAmar Singh Majithia was a soldier and administrator during the Sikh Empire.\n\nHe was also called Amar Singh Kallan (senior) to distinguish him from Amar Singh Khurd (junior). Both Amar Singh Kallan and Khurd were from the village of Majitha. Amar Singh Majithia took part in many early campaigns under Ranjit Singh and was appointed governor of Hazara Division after Diwal Ram Dial's death by the Mashwani and Utmanzai tribesmen of Hazara. He was known to be an astute person and succeeded in winning over the leading men to his side, and in collecting the old Durani revenue and tribute from the Hazara plains. However, like his predecessor, Amar Singh Majithia was also killed in battle along with all of his men by the Karlal tribe of Hazara. The scene of this battle was at the banks of Samundar stream, a tributary of the Harroh river.\n"}
{"id": "15748822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15748822", "title": "Aminadi", "text": "Aminadi\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Aminadi () was a Nephite. Briefly mentioned in the Book of Alma, he is a descendant of Nephi, and an ancestor (through at least three generations) of Amulek. \n\nDuring a speech to the people of Ammonihah, Amulek states that Aminadi was known as a prophet that had \"interpreted the writing which was upon the wall of the temple, which was written by the finger of God.\"\n"}
{"id": "15749657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15749657", "title": "Antiomno", "text": "Antiomno\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Antiomno () was a Lamanite king that ruled the land of Middoni.\n"}
{"id": "43579035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43579035", "title": "Associations of good-doing", "text": "Associations of good-doing\n\nThe associations of good-doing () are organised groups of the indigenous religion of Hebei province (河北民间宗教 \"Héběi mínjiān zōngjiào\" or 河北民间信仰 \"Héběi mínjiān xìnyǎng\"), or the \"Pear Area\" of China. The Congregation of the Dragon's Name (龙牌会 \"Lóngpái Huì\") is one of these movements of good-doers.\n\nXinghaode associations organise temple festivals and pilgrimages for the worship of certain deities, as well as other types of collective activities. Their purpose is to make \"rènào\" (热闹), that is \"social living\" or \"social harmony\".\n\nThe designation of \"Xínghǎode\" (行好的), literally \"good-doers\" or \"those who act well\", originated with the spread of the Catholic Church in the Pear Area over the last two hundred years. Local Chinese following the native faith adopted the name in contrast with Catholics, who in the area were called \"Fèngjiàode\" (奉教的). Catholics nowadays remain less than 3% of the population of the Pear Area.\n\nIn Hebei folk religion, people who have the ability to mediate with the gods are known as \"xiāngdàode\" (香道的), \"practitioners of the way of incense\", and they cooperate with good-doing groups. The major ritual practice of \"xiangdaode\" is provide communities of good-doers with \"incense reading\" (看香 \"kànxiāng\"), \"incense watching\" (瞧香 \"qiáoxiāng\") or \"incense kindling\" (打香 \"dǎxiāng\"). They are mostly female and are also called by the general terms \"shénpó\" (神婆) or \"xiāngtóu\" (香頭 \"incense heads\").\n\nIn the Pear Area, one can acquire the ministry of the way of incense either through afflatus (or vocation, 仙根 \"xiāngēn\") or acquisition (ordination from another specialist). Often they claim that they are spiritual disciples (童儿 \"tónger\") of the Four Great Gates, whose specialists operated in Beijing in the 1940s, thus connecting their practice with the shamanism of northeast China.\n\nThe deities (神 \"shén\") of good-doers are divided into two classes:\n\nThe Horse God (马神 \"Mǎshén\" or 马王 \"Mǎwáng\") has a particular importance in the religion of good-doers. Gods that are believed to be particularly powerful are dedicated independent worship halls (仙家堂 \"xiān jiā táng\") or altars (仙家坛 \"xiān jiā tán\"), that often start from the house and congregation of popular \"xiangdaode\" (shamans).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30863048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863048", "title": "Bhikkhunī", "text": "Bhikkhunī\n\nA bhikkhunī (Pali) or bhikṣuṇī (Sanskrit) is a fully ordained female monastic in Buddhism. Male monastics are called bhikkhus. Both bhikkhunis and bhikkhus live by the Vinaya, a set of rules. Until recently, the lineages of female monastics only remained in Mahayana Buddhism and thus are prevalent in countries such as China, Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam but a few women have taken the full monastic vows in the Theravada and Vajrayana schools over the last decade. From conservative perspectives, none of the contemporary bhikkuni ordinations are valid.\n\nIn Buddhism, women are as capable of reaching nirvana as men. According to Buddhist scriptures, the order of bhikkhunis was first created by the Buddha at the specific request of his aunt and foster-mother Mahapajapati Gotami, who became the first ordained bhikkhuni. A famous work of the early Buddhist schools is the \"Therigatha\", a collection of poems by elder nuns about enlightenment that was preserved in the Pāli Canon.\n\nBhikkhunis are required to take extra vows, the Eight Garudhammas, and are subordinate to and reliant upon the bhikkhu order. In places where the bhikkhuni lineage was historically missing or has died out, due to hardship, alternative forms of renunciation have developed. In Tibetan Buddhism, women officially take the vows of śrāmaṇerīs (novitiates); Theravadin women may choose to take an informal and limited set of vows similar to the historical vows of the sāmaṇerī, like the maechi of Thailand and thilashin of Myanmar.\n\nThe tradition of the ordained monastic community (sangha) began with the Buddha, who established an order of Bhikkhus (monks). According to the scriptures, later, after an initial reluctance, he also established an order of Bhikkhunis (nuns or women monks). However, according to the scriptural account, not only did the Buddha lay down more rules of discipline for the bhikkhunis (311 compared to the bhikkhu's 227 in the Theravada version), he also made it more difficult for them to be ordained, and made them subordinate to monks. The bhikkhuni order was established five years after the bhikkhu order of monks at the request of a group of women whose spokesperson was Mahapajapati Gotami, the aunt who raised Gautama Buddha after his mother died.\n\nThe historicity of this account has been questioned, sometimes to the extent of regarding nuns as a later invention. The stories, sayings and deeds of a substantial number of the preeminent Bhikkhuni disciples of the Buddha as well as numerous distinguished bhikkhunis of early Buddhism are recorded in many places in the Pali Canon, most notably in the Therigatha and Theri Apadana as well as the Anguttara Nikaya and Bhikkhuni Samyutta. Additionally the ancient bhikkhunis feature in the Sanskrit Avadana texts and the first Sri Lankan Buddhist historical chronicle, the Dipavamsa, itself speculated to be authored by the Sri Lankan Bhikkhuni Sangha.\n\nAccording to Peter Harvey, \"The Buddha's apparent hesitation on this matter is reminiscent of his hesitation on whether to teach at all\", something he only does after persuasion from various devas. Since the special rules for female monastics were given by the founder of Buddhism they have been upheld to this day. Buddhists nowadays are still concerned with that fact, as shows at an International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha held at the University of Hamburg, Germany, in 2007.\n\nIn Buddhism, women can openly aspire to and practice for the highest level of spiritual attainment. Buddhism is unique among Indian religions in that the Buddha as founder of a spiritual tradition explicitly states in canonical literature that a woman is as capable of nirvana as men and can fully attain all four stages of enlightenment. There is no equivalent in other traditions to the accounts found in the \"Therigatha\" or the Apadanas that speak of high levels of spiritual attainment by women.\n\nIn a similar vein, major canonical Mahayana sutras such as the \"Lotus Sutra\", chapter 12, records 6000 bhikkhuni arhantis receiving predictions of bodhisattvahood and future buddhahood by Gautama Buddha.\n\nFemale monastics are required to follow special rules that male monastics do not, the Eight Garudhammas. The origin of the Eight Garudhammas, the special vows taken by female monastics, is unclear. The Buddha is quoted by Thannisaro Bhikkhu as saying, \"Ananda, if Mahaprajapati Gotami accepts eight vows of respect, that will be her full ordination (upasampada).\" Modern scholars have shown that this story abounds in textual problems, and cannot possibly be a factual account.<ref name=\"http://santifm.org/santipada/2010/bhikkhuni-faq/\">Bhante Sujato.</ref> According to the scriptural accounts, the reason the Buddha gave for his actions was that admission of women to the sangha would weaken it and shorten its lifetime to 500 years. This prophecy occurs only once in the Canon and is the only prophecy involving time in the Canon.\n\nIn Young Chung noticed that society as recorded in the Vinaya always criticized the bhikkhunis more harshly using \"shaven headed strumpets or whores\", whereas the bhikkhus were simply called \"shaven headed\". This harsher treatment (which also included rape and assault) of bhikkhunis by society required greater protection. Within these social conditions, Gautama Buddha opened up new horizons for women by founding the bhikkhuni sangha. This social and spiritual advancement for women was ahead of the times and, therefore, drew many objections from men, including bhikkhus. He was probably well aware of the controversy that would be caused by the harassment of his female disciples.\"\n\nThe Vinaya does not allow for any power-based relationship between the monks and nuns. Dhammananda Bhikkhuni wrote:\nIan Astley argues that under the conditions of society where there is such great discrimination and threat to women, Buddha could not be blamed for the steps he took in trying to secure the Sangha from negative public opinion:\n\nThe progression to ordination as a bhikkhuni is taken in four steps. A layperson takes the Five Precepts. The next step is to enter the pabbajja (Sanskrit: \"pravrajya\") or monastic way of life, which includes wearing the monastic's robes. After that, one can become a śrāmaṇerī or \"novitiate\". The last and final step is to take the full vows of a bhikkhuni.\n\nThe Order of Interbeing, established in 1964 and associated with the Plum Village movement, has fourteen precepts observed by all monastics. They were written by Thích Nhất Hạnh. In an interview, Chân Không described his approach:\nA gelongma () is the Standard Tibetan term for a bhikṣuṇī, a monastic who observes the full set of vows outlined in the vinaya. While the exact number of vows observed varies from one ordination lineage to another, generally the female monastic observes 360 vows while the male monastic observes 265. \n\nA \"getsulma\" () is a śrāmaṇerikā or novice, a preparation monastic level prior to full vows. Novices, both male and female, adhere to twenty-five main vows. A layperson or child monk too young to take the full vows may take the Five Vows called \"approaching virtue\" (). These five vows can be practiced as a monastic, where the genyen maintains celibacy, or as a lay practitioner, where the married genyen maintains fidelity.\n\nStarting with the novice ordination, some may choose to take forty years to gradually arrive at the vows of a fully ordained monastic. Others take the getsulma and gelongma vows on the same day and practice as a gelongma from the beginning, as the getsulma vows are included within the gelongma.\n\nThe tradition flourished for centuries throughout South and East Asia, but appears to have lapsed in the Theravada tradition of Sri Lanka in the 11th century C.E. It survived in Burma to about the 13th century, but died out there too. Although it is commonly said to have never been introduced to Thailand, Laos, Cambodia or Tibet, there is substantial historical evidence to the contrary, especially in Thailand.\n\nHowever, the Mahayana tradition in China, Korea, Vietnam, Taiwan and Hong Kong has retained the practice, where female monastics are full bhikṣuṇīs.\n\nIn 13th century Japan, Mugai Nyodai was ordained the first female abbess and thus the first female Zen master. Prajñātārā is the twenty-seventh Indian Patriarch of Zen and is believed to have been a woman.\n\nThe traditional appearance of Theravada bhikkhunis is nearly identical to that of male monks, including a shaved head, shaved eyebrows and saffron robes. In some countries, nuns wear dark chocolate robes or sometimes the same colour as monks. In the Theravada tradition, some scholars believe that the bhikkhuni lineage became extinct in the 11th to 13th centuries and that no new bhikkhunis could be ordained since there were no bhikkhunis left to give ordination. For this reason, the leadership of the Theravada bhikkhu Sangha in Burma and Thailand deem fully ordained bhikkhunis as impossible. \"Equal rights for men and women are denied by the Ecclesiastical Council. No woman can be ordained as a Theravada Buddhist nun or bhikkhuni in Thailand. The Council has issued a national warning that any monk who ordains female monks will be punished.\" Based on the spread of the bhikkhuni lineage to countries like China, Taiwan, Korea, Vietnam, Japan and Sri Lanka, other scholars support ordination of Theravada bhikkhunis.\n\nWithout ordination available to them, women traditionally voluntarily take limited vows to live as renunciants. These women attempt to lead a life following the teachings of the Buddha. They observe 8–10 precepts, but do not follow exactly the same codes as bhikkhunis. They receive popular recognition for their role. But they are not granted official endorsement or the educational support offered to monks. Some cook while others practise and teach meditation.\n\nWhite or pink robes are worn by Theravada women renunciants who are not fully ordained. These women are known as dasa sil mata in Sri Lankan Buddhism, thilashin in Burmese Buddhism, Maechi in Thai Buddhism, \"guruma\" in Nepal and Laos and siladharas at Amaravati Buddhist Monastery in England.\n\nChatsumarn Kabilsingh, now known as Dhammananda Bhikkhuni, is a Thai scholar who took bhikkhuni ordination in Sri Lanka and returned to Thailand, where bhikkhuni ordination is forbidden and can result in arrest or imprisonment for a woman. She is considered a pioneer by many in Thailand.\n\nIn 1996, through the efforts of Sakyadhita International Association of Buddhist Women, the Theravada bhikkhuni order was revived when 11 Sri Lankan women received full ordination in Sarnath, India, in a procedure held by Dodangoda Revata Mahāthera and the late Mapalagama Vipulasāra Mahāthera of the Maha Bodhi Society in India with assistance from monks and nuns of the Jogye Order of Korean Seon.\nThe first Theravada bhikkhuni ordination in Australia was held in Perth, 22 October 2009, at Bodhinyana Monastery. Four nuns from Dhammasara Nun's Monastery, Ajahn Vayama, Nirodha, Seri and Hasapanna, were ordained as bhikkhunis in full accordance with the Pali vinaya.\n\nIn July 2007 a meeting of Buddhist leaders and scholars of all traditions met at the International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha, in Hamburg, Germany to work toward a worldwide consensus on the re-establishment of bhikshuni ordination. 65 delegates, bhikkhus and bhikkhunis, Vinaya masters and elders from traditional Buddhist countries and Western-trained Buddhologists attended. The Summary Report from the Congress states that all delegates \"were in unanimous agreement that Mulasarvastivada bhikshuni ordination should be re-established,\" and cites the Dalai Lama's full support of bhikkhuni ordination (already in 1987 H. H. XIVth Dalai Lama had demanded the re-establishment of full ordination for nuns in Tibet).\n\nThe aim of the congress has been rated by the organizers of utmost importance for equality and liberation of Buddhist women (nuns). \"The re-establishment of nuns’ ordination in Tibet via H. H. XIVth Dalai Lama and the international monks and nuns sanghas will lead to further equality and liberation of Buddhist women. This is a congress of historical significance which will give women the possibility to teach Buddha’s doctrines worldwide.\"\n\nTo help establish the Bhikshuni Sangha (community of fully ordained nuns) where it does not currently exist has also been declared one of the objectives of Sakyadhita, as expressed at its founding meeting in 1987 in Bodhgaya, India.\n\nIn Part Four of Alexander Berzin's Summary Report: Day Three and Final Comments by His Holiness the Fourteenth Dalai Lama it is said: \"But Buddha gave the basic rights equally to both sangha groups. There is no point in discussing whether or not to revive the bhikshuni ordination; the question is merely how to do so properly within the context of the Vinaya.\"\n\nThe Eight Garudhammas belong to the context of the Vinaya. Bhikkhuni Kusuma writes: \"In the Pali, the eight garudhammas appear in the tenth khandhaka of the Cullavagga.\" However, they are to be found in the actual ordination process for Bhikkhunis.\n\nThe text is not allowed to be studied before ordination. \"The traditional custom is that one is only allowed to study the bhikshu or bhikshuni vows after having taken them\", Karma Lekshe Tsomo stated during congress\nwhile talking about Gender Equality and Human Rights: \"It would be helpful if Tibetan nuns could study the bhikshuni vows before the ordination is established. The traditional custom is that one is only allowed to study the bhikshu or bhikshuni vows after having taken them.\n\nVen. Tenzin Palmo is quoted with saying: \"To raise the status of Tibetan nuns, it is important not only to re-establish the Mulasarvastivada bhikshuni ordination, but also for the new bhikshunis to ignore the eight gurudharmas that have regulated their lower status. These eight, after all, were formulated for the sole purpose of avoiding censure by the lay society. In the modern world, disallowing the re-establishment of the Mulasarvastivada bhikshuni ordination and honoring these eight risk that very censure.\"\n\nAccording to the Summary Report as well as according to the other texts available from the congress there has not been a discussion on how and which of the eight gurudharmas discriminate against Buddhist nuns and how this can be changed in detail in the process of re-establishing the Mulasarvastivada bhikshuni ordination.\n\nIn Burma, the governing council of Burmese Buddhism has ruled that there can be no valid ordination of women in modern times, though some Burmese monks disagree. In 2003, Saccavadi and Gunasari were ordained as bhikkhunis in Sri Lanka, thus becoming the first female Burmese novices in modern times to receive higher ordination in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn Indonesia, the first Theravada ordination of bhikkhunis in Indonesia after more than a thousand years occurred in 2015 at Wisma Kusalayani in Lembang, Bandung. Those ordained included Vajiradevi Sadhika Bhikkhuni from Indonesia, Medha Bhikkhuni from Sri Lanka, Anula Bhikkhuni from Japan, Santasukha Santamana Bhikkhuni from Vietnam, Sukhi Bhikkhuni and Sumangala Bhikkhuni from Malaysia, and Jenti Bhikkhuni from Australia.\n\nThere have been some attempts in recent years to revive the tradition of women in the sangha within Theravada Buddhism in India, Sri Lanka, and Thailand, with many women ordained in Sri Lanka since 1996. Some of these were carried out with the assistance of nuns from the East Asian tradition; others were carried out by the Theravada monk's Order alone. Since 2005, many ordination ceremonies for women have been organized by the head of the Dambulla chapter of the Siyam Nikaya in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn Thailand, in 1928, the Supreme Patriarch of Thailand, responding to the attempted ordination of two women, issued an edict that monks must not ordain women as samaneris (novices), sikkhamanas (probationers) or bhikkhunis. The two women were reportedly arrested and jailed briefly. A 55-year-old Thai Buddhist 8-precept white-robed maechee nun, Varanggana Vanavichayen, became the first woman to receive the going-forth ceremony of a Theravada novice (and the gold robe) in Thailand, in 2002. Dhammananda Bhikkhuni, previously a professor of Buddhist philosophy known as Dr Chatsumarn Kabilsingh, was controversially ordained as first a novice and then a bhikkhuni in Sri Lanka in 2003 upon the revival of the full ordination of women there. Since then, the Thai Senate has reviewed and revoked the secular law banning women's full ordination in Buddhism as unconstitutional for being counter to laws protecting freedom of religion. More than 20 further Thai women have followed in Dhammananda Bhikkhuni's footsteps, with temples, monasteries and meditations centers led by Thai bhikkhunis emerging in Samut Sakhon, Chiang Mai and Rayong. The stance of the Thai Sangha hierarchy has largely changed from one of denial of the existence of bhikkhunis to one of acceptance of bhikkhunis as of foreign (non-Thai) traditions. However Thailand's two main Theravada Buddhist orders, the Mahanikaya and Dhammayutika Nikaya, have yet to officially accept fully ordained women into their ranks. Despite substantial and growing support inside the religious hierarchy, sometimes fierce opposition to the ordination of women within the sangha remains.\n\nIn 2010, Ayya Tathaaloka and Bhante Henepola Gunaratana oversaw a dual ordination ceremony at Aranya Bodhi forest refuge in Sonoma County, California where four women became fully ordained nuns in the Theravada tradition.\n\nThe only women's ordination lineage that remains is the Dharmaguptaka one, which is in use in East Asian Buddhism. Nuns from this tradition have assisted in the ordination of nuns in other lineages (e.g. Theravada), where the presence of nuns is a prerequisite for new nuns to be ordained.\n\nThis is problematic from a legalist point of view, as a woman from one Buddhist tradition ordained by nuns in another invalidates the notion of lineage. Inauthentic nuns cannot legitimately go on to ordain other women in their own traditions and thus it is impossible to validly re-establish bhikkhuni ordination in lineages where it has ended.\n\nHowever, the German monk Bhikkhu Analayo, who was a presenter at the International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha, has argued that it is possible for bhikkhus alone to ordain bhikkhunis if necessary. By exploring attitudes towards bhikkhunis in early Buddhist texts and the story of the foundation of the bhikkhuni order he advocates for the continuing validity of \"single ordination\" (i.e. by monks only), which is a matter of controversy in the Theravada and Tibetan traditions.\n\nIn 1997 Dhamma Cetiya Vihara in Boston was founded by Ven. Gotami of Thailand, then a 10 precept nun. Ven. Gotami received full ordination in 2000, at which time her dwelling became America's first Theravada Buddhist bhikkhuni \"vihara\". \"Vihara\" translates as monastery or nunnery, and may be both dwelling and community center where one or more bhikkhus or bhikkhunis offer teachings on Buddhist scriptures, conduct traditional ceremonies, teach meditation, offer counseling and other community services, receive alms, and reside. In 2003 Ven. Sudhamma Bhikkhuni took the role of resident female-monk at the Carolina Buddhist Vihara in Greenville, SC (founded by Sri Lankan monks in 2000); her new dwelling thus became the second such community-oriented bhikkhuni \"vihara\" in the eastern United States. The first such women's monastic residence in the western United States, Dhammadharini Vihara (now the Dhammadharini Monastery in Penngrove, CA was founded in Fremont, CA, by Ven. Tathaaloka of the USA, in 2005. Soon afterwards, Samadhi Meditation Center in Pinellas Park, Florida, was founded by Ven. Sudarshana Bhikkhuni of Sri Lanka.\n\nSravasti Abbey, the first Tibetan Buddhist monastery for Western nuns and monks in the U.S., was established in Washington State by Bhikshuni Thubten Chodron in 2003. The Abbey practices in the Dharmaguptaka Vinaya. It is situated on 300 acres forest and meadows, 11 miles (18 km) outside of Newport, Washington, near the Idaho state line. It is open to visitors who want to learn about community life in a Tibetan Buddhist monastic setting. The name Sravasti Abbey was chosen by His Holiness the Dalai Lama. Bhikshuni Thubten Chodron had suggested the name, as Sravasti was the place in India where comes from the fact that, the Buddha spent 25 rains retreats (varsa in Sanskrit and yarne in Tibetan), and communities of both nuns and monks had resided there. This seemed auspicious to ensure the Buddha’s teachings would be abundantly available to both male and female monastics at the monastery.\n\nSravasti Abbey is notable because it is home to a growing group of fully ordained bhikshuni (Buddhist nuns) practicing in the Tibetan tradition. This is special because the tradition of full ordination for women was not transmitted from India to Tibet. Ordained women practicing in the Tibetan tradition usually hold an ordination that is, in effect, a novice ordination. Venerable Thubten Chodron, while faithfully following the teachings of her Tibetan teachers, has arranged for her students to seek full ordination as bhikshunis in Taiwan.\n\nIn January 2014, the Abbey, which then had seven bhikshunis and three novices, formally began its first winter varsa (three-month monastic retreat), which lasted until April 13, 2014. As far as the Abbey knows, this was the first time a Western bhikshuni sangha practicing in the Tibetan tradition had done this ritual in the United States and in English. On April 19, 2014 the Abbey held its first kathina ceremony to mark the end of the varsa. Also in 2014 the Abbey held its first Pavarana rite at the end of the varsa. In October 2015 the Annual Western Buddhist Monastic Gathering was held at the Abbey for the first time; it was the 21st such gathering.\n\nMore recently established Theravada bhikkhuni viharas include: Mahapajapati Monastery where several nuns (bhikkhunis and novices) live together in the desert of southern California near Joshua Tree, founded by Ven. Gunasari Bhikkhuni of Burma in 2008; Aranya Bodhi Hermitage founded by Ven. Tathaaloka Bhikkhuni in the forest near Jenner, CA, with Ven. Sobhana Bhikkhuni as Prioress, which opened officially in July 2010, where several bhikkhunis reside together along with trainees and lay supporters; and Sati Saraniya in Ontario, founded by Ven. Medhanandi in appx 2009, where two bhikkhunis reside. (There are also quiet residences of individual bhikkhunis where they may receive visitors and give teachings, such as the residence of Ven. Amma Thanasanti Bhikkhuni in 2009-2010 in Colorado Springs; and the Los Angeles residence of Ven. Susila Bhikkhuni; and the residence of Ven. Wimala Bhikkhuni in the mid-west.)\n\nIn 2010 the first Tibetan Buddhist nunnery in North America was established in Vermont, called Vajra Dakini Nunnery, offering novice ordination. The abbot of this nunnery is an American woman named Khenmo Drolma who is the first \"bhikkhunni,\" a fully ordained Buddhist nun, in the Drikung Kagyu tradition of Buddhism, having been ordained in Taiwan in 2002. She is also the first westerner, male or female, to be installed as a Buddhist abbot, having been installed as abbot of Vajra Dakini Nunnery in 2004.\n\nAlso in 2010, in Northern California, four novice nuns were given the full bhikkhuni ordination in the Thai Theravada tradition, which included the double ordination ceremony. Bhante Gunaratana and other monks and nuns were in attendance. It was the first such ordination ever in the Western hemisphere. The following month, more bhikkhuni ordinations were completed in Southern California, led by Walpola Piyananda and other monks and nuns. The bhikkhunis ordained in Southern California were Lakshapathiye Samadhi (born in Sri Lanka), Cariyapanna, Susila, Sammasati (all three born in Vietnam), and Uttamanyana (born in Myanmar).\n\nIn 2009 in Australia four women received bhikkhuni ordination as Theravada nuns, the first time such ordination had occurred in Australia. It was performed in Perth, Australia, on 22 October 2009 at Bodhinyana Monastery. Abbess Vayama together with Venerables Nirodha, Seri, and Hasapanna were ordained as Bhikkhunis by a dual Sangha act of Bhikkhus and Bhikkhunis in full accordance with the Pali Vinaya.\n\nThe governing council of Burmese Buddhism has ruled that there can be no valid ordination of women in modern times, though some Burmese monks disagree. In 2003, Saccavadi and Gunasari were ordained as bhikkhunis in Sri Lanka, thus becoming the first female Burmese novices in modern times to receive higher ordination in Sri Lanka.\n\nThe International Congress on Buddhist Women's Role in the Sangha: Bhikshuni Vinaya and Ordination Lineages took place in Germany, in July 18–20, 2007.\n\nThe first bhikkhuni ordination in Germany, the ordination of German nun Samaneri Dhira, occurred on June 21, 2015 at Anenja Vihara.\n\nThe first Theravada ordination of bhikkhunis in Indonesia after more than a thousand years occurred in 2015 at Wisma Kusalayani in Lembang, Bandung. Those ordained included Vajiradevi Sadhika Bhikkhuni from Indonesia, Medha Bhikkhuni from Sri Lanka, Anula Bhikkhuni from Japan, Santasukha Santamana Bhikkhuni from Vietnam, Sukhi Bhikkhuni and Sumangala Bhikkhuni from Malaysia, and Jenti Bhikkhuni from Australia.\n\nThere have been some attempts revive the tradition of women in the sangha within Theravada Buddhism in Thailand, India and Sri Lanka, with many women ordained in Sri Lanka since 1996. In 1996 through the efforts of Sakyadhita, an International Buddhist Women Association, Theravada bhikkhuni order was revived, when 11 Sri Lankan women received full ordination in Sarnath, India, in a procedure held by Ven. Dodangoda Revata Mahāthera and the late Ven. Mapalagama Vipulasāra Mahāthera of the Mahābodhi Society in India with assistance from monks and nuns of Korean Chogyo order.\n\nIn 1928, the Supreme Patriarch of Thailand, responding to the attempted ordination of two women, issued an edict that monks must not ordain women as samaneris (novices), sikkhamanas (probationers) or bhikkhunis. The two women were reportedly arrested and jailed briefly. Varanggana Vanavichayen became the first female monk to be ordained in Thailand in 2002. Dhammananda Bhikkhuni, previously a professor of Buddhist philosophy known as Dr Chatsumarn Kabilsingh, was controversially ordained as first a novice and then a bhikkhuni in Sri Lanka in 2003 upon the revival of the full ordination of women there. Since then, the Thai Senate has reviewed and revoked the secular law banning women's full ordination in Buddhism as unconstitutional for being counter laws protecting freedom of religion. More than 20 further Thai women have followed in Dhammananda Bhikkhuni's footsteps, with temples, monasteries and meditations centers led by Thai bhikkhunis emerging in Samut Sakhon, Chiang Mai and Rayong. the Thai Senate has reviewed and revoked the secular law passed in 1928 banning women's full ordination in Buddhism as unconstitutional for being counter to laws protecting freedom of religion. The stance of the Thai Sangha hierarchy has largely changed from one of denial of the existence of bhikkhunis to one of acceptance of bhikkhunis as of foreign (non-Thai) traditions. However Thailand's two main Theravada Buddhist orders, the Mahanikaya and Dhammayutika Nikaya, have yet to officially accept fully ordained women into their ranks. Despite substantial and growing support inside the religious hierarchy, sometimes fierce opposition to the ordination of women within the sangha remains.\n\nWhen Buddhism traveled from India to Tibet, apparently the quorum of twelve fully ordained nuns required for bestowing full ordination never reached Tibet. There are singular accounts of fully ordained Tibetan women, such as the Samding Dorje Phagmo (1422-1455), who was once ranked the highest female master in Tibet, but very little is known about the exact circumstances of their ordination.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has authorized followers of the Tibetan tradition to be ordained as nuns in traditions that have such ordination.\n\nAccording to Thubten Chodron, the current Dalai Lama has said on this issue:\n\n\nAlexander Berzin referred to the Dalai Lama having said on occasion of the 2007 Hamburg congress\nOgyen Trinley Dorje, the 17th Karmapa, has announced plan to restore nuns’ ordination.\n\nThe Tibetan community is taking its own steps to figure out how to approach conferring bhikshuni ordination to women ordained under the mulashravastavada vinaya system. Meanwhile, steps have already been taken to cultivate the bhiksuni monastic community in the West. Bhikshuni Thubten Chodron established Sravasti Abbey in 2003. It is the only Tibetan Buddhist training monastery for Western nuns and monks in the United States. Whilst the Abbey primarily practices under the Tibetan Buddhist tradition, it practices in the Chinese Dharmaguptaka Vinaya lineage. This has allowed the female monastics to take full ordination, travelling to Taiwan to take part in 6-8 week training programmes. In January 2014, the Abbey, which then had seven bhikshunis and three novices, formally began its first winter varsa (three-month monastic retreat), which lasted until April 13, 2014. As far as the Abbey knows, this was the first time a Western bhikshuni sangha practicing in the Tibetan tradition had done this riSrtual in the United States and in English. On April 19, 2014 the Abbey held its first kathina ceremony to mark the end of the varsa. Also in 2014 the Abbey held its first Pavarana rite at the end of the varsa. The Abbey currently has ten fully ordained bhikshunis and five novices.\n\nIn March 1993 in Dharmasala, Sylvia Wetzel spoke in front of the Dalai Lama and other luminaries to highlight the sexism of Buddhist practices, imagery and teachings. \n\nTwo senior male monastics vocally supported her, reinforcing her points with their own experiences. Ajahn Amaro, a Theravada bhikkhu of Amaravati Buddhist Monastery, said, \"Seeing the nuns not receiving the respect given to the monks is very painful. It is like having a spear in your heart\". \nThe former wife of Buddha—Yasodharā, mother of his son Rāhula, according to legend also became a bhikkhuni and an arahant.\n\nThere is the quite famous Therigatha collection of poems call \"Verses of the Elder Nuns\" and a less known collection called \"Discourses of the Ancient Nuns\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5618796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5618796", "title": "Bronfman Jewish Education Centre", "text": "Bronfman Jewish Education Centre\n\nThe Bronfman Jewish Education Centre (BJEC) is the planning and coordinating agency for Jewish community educational needs in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nA constituent agency of the Federation CJA, BJEC strives to respond to the educational needs of 20 elementary schools, 14 secondary schools, 900 educators, 7100 day school students, over 500 students in 4 supplementary schools, and a growing array of community organizations. \n\nBJEC offers professional development, pedagogical resources, educational consultation, and instructional, technical, and educational services to schools and community organizations. These resources provide a support system for teachers, administrators, and students in a variety of settings, offering the Jewish community high quality educational opportunities.\n\nBJEC also manages a world-renowned Curriculum Development Department, the Bronfman Israel Experience Centre and the Florence Melton Adult Mini-School.\n\n"}
{"id": "19263461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19263461", "title": "Buddhism in Africa", "text": "Buddhism in Africa\n\nBuddhism, as a major world religion, is practiced in Africa. Though there have been some conversion amongst Africans, most of the Buddhists in Africa, are of Asian, mostly Chinese, Vietnamese, Sri Lankan or Japanese descent.\n\nSouth Africa holds the largest Buddhist population in the continent. According to 2010s estimates, Buddhist adherents (included Taoism and Chinese Folk Religion) are increasing to between 0.2% 0.3% of the South African population, or between 100 and 150 thousand people, however, the number of practicing Buddhists maybe lower.\n\nThe African countries and territories in the Indian Ocean are also having significant Buddhist minorities. Mauritius has the highest Buddhist percentage (between 1.5 to 2% of the total population) among African countries due to high number of Chinese people (nearly 40 thousands or 3% of the Mauritian population). But the number of practicing Buddhists is only about 0.4%. And Madagascar is also home of about 20 thousand Buddhists (or about 0.1% of the total population). In the Seychelles and Réunion, Buddhists represented about 0.1% to 0.2% of the island populations.\n\nIn North Africa, about 0.3% (or about 20 thousand people) of the Libya's population are also Buddhists (mostly foreign workers from Asia). There are also two Buddhist centers in Casablanca, Morocco.\n\nThere are some Buddhist centers or temples can be found in Sub-Saharan African countries like: Botswana, Cameroon, Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nThere have also been cases of some high-profile celebrities converting to Buddhism such as Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje, a famous British actor of Nigerian descent.\n\nOne of the very few monastics of African descent is Ven. Bhante Buddharakkhita from Uganda, founder of the Uganda Buddhist Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21123238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21123238", "title": "Buddhism in Denmark", "text": "Buddhism in Denmark\n\nBuddhism is the fourth largest religion in Denmark with approximately 30,000 members.\n\nIn the 19th century, knowledge about Buddhism was brought back from expeditions that explored the Far East but interest was mainly from authors, Buddhologists and philologists. In 1921, Dr. Christian F. Melbye founded the first Buddhist Society in Denmark, but it was later dissolved in 1950 before his death in 1953. In the 1950s, there was a revival in interest towards Buddhism, especially Tibetan Buddhism. Hannah and Ole Nydahl founded the first Karma Kagyu Buddhist centers in Copenhagen.The third wave of Buddhism came in the 1980s, when refugees from Vietnam, Sri Lanka and China came to Denmark. Some Buddhist women, especially those from Thailand, came to Denmark seeking Danish husbands.\n\nAccurate figures for the number of Buddhists in Denmark is not known, as it is illegal to record people's faiths in Denmark. However, according to Jørn Borup (Department of the Study of Religion, Aarhus University), there are approximately 30,000 Buddhists in Denmark today, of which 80% are Asian immigrants. Of these, 9,000 are from Vietnam and 10,000 are from Thailand. Despite Buddhism being a minority religion, the Dalai Lama is the Danes' preferred religious role model.\n\nThere are 43 Buddhist groups in Denmark, 15 of which have official status as 'recognized congregations'. While the number of members and users of the groups are typically small, the 'convert groups' mainly oriented towards Tibetan and Zen Buddhism outnumber the few Asian Buddhist groups, whose number of 'adherents' nevertheless are much higher \n\nTheravada Buddhism in Denmark is practised primarily by Thais and Sri Lankans and between 90 and 95% of the 10,000 Danish Thais are Buddhists. Thai Buddhist temples include the Watpa in Copenhagen, Wat Thai Denmark Brahmavihara Buddhist Monastery and the Wat Phra Dhammakaya Denmark. These Buddhist émigrés seem almost invisible in Denmark, partly because Buddhism is generally not an evangelical religion, and they rarely take part in the larger social debate, partly because they have low unemployment and crime rates and are therefore not particularly newsworthy subjects for the media. Especially the Vietnamese have attracted such positive views which might be related to their generally positive, cultural integration. Although not directly related to Buddhism as a practiced religion, Buddhism's contribution to popular culture, media and marketing should not be underestimated \n\nThe first Tibetan Buddhist group was founded in Denmark by Hannah and Ole Nydahl. It belongs to the Karma Kagyu lineage, one of the major Tibetan schools. The very first center was opened in Copenhagen in 1972 and relocated in 1975 to its current location. To this day Diamond Way Buddhism has increased to nearly 600 centers worldwide. Although members of this group has not been growing for the last ten years, it is still the largest Vajrayana school in Denmark, with 500 Danish affiliates.\n\nZen is amongst the smallest schools of Buddhism in Denmark. It has five groups (both Soto and Rinzai) and no more than 100 practitioners.\n\nThe Soka Gakkai International organization was established in Denmark in 1983 and has approximately 800 members in 54 local groups.\n\nIn 1991, the Tibetan-born Lakha Lama tried to establish a trans-sectarian Buddhist umbrella organization called the Buddhist Forum and since 1993 it has been a member of the European Buddhist Union despite having only two hundred paying members. Another Lakha Lama project called \"Phendeling\" has subsequently taken over its role and now includes some non-Vajrayana Buddhist groups. Two groups, the Diamond Way Buddhism and Sokka Gakkai, have not been invited to join the umbrella organizations. In the early 1990s, there was a split between Ole Nydahl and the rest of the groups during the Karmapa controversy. One of two candidates was about to be chosen as the one new reincarnation of the 16th Karmapa. Ole Nydahl supported Trinley Thaye Dorje whilst Urgyen Trinley Dorje was supported by most other Buddhist groups and the Dalai Lama.\n\nThe exiled Tibetan leader, the Dalai Lama has visited Denmark several times. He first visited in 1973 to help inaugurate the first Karma Kagyu center founded by the Nydahls. He came back in 1996 for an official visit, but was not met by the Danish prime minister at that time, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, who said that he was too busy, which he said again the next time the Dalai Lama visited in 2000. However, he did meet him at the airport just before he left.\n\nIn 2003, the Dalai Lama returned and was officially welcomed by Rasmussen's successor, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, with the backing of the entire government, despite protests from China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19305300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19305300", "title": "Cambodian National Sustaining Party", "text": "Cambodian National Sustaining Party\n\nThe Cambodian National Sustaining Party was created by its president Pen Sovan. Formed on 21 January 1998, and holding its first party congress on the same day.\n\nThis political party's ideology is a combination of several ideas. One of its ideologies that's right-wing is supporting and promoting \"Nation Religion and King\", \"constitutional monarchy\" and to \"protect the constitution of Cambodia\". With the other part of its ideology which is left-wing is again promoting/supporting \"women's rights in society\" and promote equal rights for women like men in both \"political\" and \"social\" roles. Another left-wing idea is promoting peoples interests in the present and future. The other part of its ideology is liberalism since the CNSP believes in \"peace\", \"freedom\", opposition to \"anarchism\", \"dictatorship\" and prevent \"starvation and poverty\" in Cambodia, and construct a \"free and pluralistic democracy\".\n\nThe CNSP's press secretary explained to a Cambodian newspaper called Phnom Pehn that the CNSP expresses an \"appeal\" for investigators from the \"Human Rights Action Committee\" to investigate the deaths of rival candidates like the one called Meas Soy of FUNCINPEC competing against Sam Rainsy and another called Uch Horn who was affected by political violence. This is because the Cambodian National Sustaining Party wanted to protect democracy and safety of political party candidates for a free and fair 2002 February election.\n\n"}
{"id": "536811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536811", "title": "Christian music", "text": "Christian music\n\nChristian music is music that has been written to express either personal or a communal belief regarding Christian life and faith. Common themes of Christian music include praise, worship, penitence, and lament, and its forms vary widely across the world.\n\nLike other forms of music the creation, performance, significance, and even the definition of Christian music varies according to culture and social context. Christian music is composed and performed for many purposes, ranging from aesthetic pleasure, religious or ceremonial purposes, or with a positive message as an entertainment product for the marketplace.\n\nAmong the most prevalent uses of Christian music are in church worship or other gatherings. Most Christian music involves singing, whether by the whole congregation (assembly), or by a specialized subgroup—such as a soloist, duet, trio, quartet, madrigal, choir, or worship band— or both. It is frequently accompanied by instruments, but some denominations (such as some Exclusive Brethren, the Churches of Christ, the Primitive Baptists and the Free Church of Scotland) or congregations still prefer unaccompanied or \"a cappella\" singing. Some groups, such as the Bruderhof, sing songs both with religious and non-religious meanings and words. For them, the act of singing is important. One of the earliest forms of worship music in the church was the Gregorian chant. Pope Gregory I, while not the inventor of chant, was acknowledged as the first person to order such music in the church, hinting the name \"Gregorian\" chant. The chant reform took place around 590–604 CE (reign of Pope Gregory I) (Kamien, pg. 65–67). The Gregorian chant was known for its very monophonic sound. Believing that complexity had a tendency to create cacophony, which ruined the music, Gregory I kept things very simple with the chant.\n\nIn the West, the majority of Christian denominations use instruments such as an organ, piano, electronic keyboard, guitar, or other accompaniment, and occasionally by a band or orchestra, to accompany the singing. But some churches have historically not used instruments, citing their absence from the New Testament. During the last century or so several of these groups have revised this stance.\n\nThe singing of the Eastern Orthodox is also generally unaccompanied, though in the United States organs are sometimes used as a result of Western influence.\n\nSome worship music may be unsung, simply instrumental. During the Baroque period in Europe, the chorale prelude (for organ) was widely used, generally composed by using a popular hymn tune thematically, and a wide corpus of other solo organ music began to develop across Europe. Some of the most well-known exponents of such organ compositions include Johann Sebastian Bach, Dieterich Buxtehude, George Frideric Handel, François Couperin, César Franck and Charles-Marie Widor to name a few. Up to the present time, various composers have written instrumental (often organ) music as acts of worship, including well known organ repertoire by composers like Olivier Messiaen, Louis Vierne, Maurice Duruflé, and Jean Langlais.\n\nThe church sonata (for orchestra and chamber group) and other sacred instrumental musical forms also developed from the Baroque period onwards.\n\nFrom the latter half of the 20th century to the present day in Western Christendom—especially in the United States and in other countries with evangelical churches—various genres of music originally often related to pop rock, have been created under the label of Contemporary Christian Music (\"CCM\") for home-listening and concert use. It can be divided into several genres and subgenres, although the dividing lines and relationships between music genres are often subtle, sometimes open to individual interpretation, and occasionally controversial. These genres (sometimes referred to as \"style\") like other forms of music may be distinguished by the techniques, the styles, the context and the themes, or geographical origin. Specific subgenres of CCM may include (but are not limited to): Christian country music, Christian pop, Christian rock, Christian metal, Christian hardcore, Christian punk, Christian alternative rock and Christian hip hop.\n\nCalled Christian pop or gospel in a generalized form, this is a relatively new musical movement and has now evolved into a large number of musical genres by region that comes in a Christian context. This movement appeared as a form of evangelization for the young but the genre is best known and seen in the Evangelical or Protestant proselytizing movements, often using rhythms similar to those in secular music.\n\nCCM is not a musical genre like the other genres. When a song is identified as \"Christian\" it takes into account the lyrics and the songwriters and performers, rather than musical style. Therefore, one can say that CCM is diverse and there are Christian songs that are sung to the rhythm of salsa, reggae, rock, folk, hip-hop or rap, ballads, pop, country, singer-songwriters and even extreme music such as punk or heavy metal.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, contemporary Christian music played a significant role in Evangelical Christian worship. A great variety of musical styles has developed traditional praise.\n\nSimilar developments took place in other language, for example the German Neues Geistliches Lied and Korean Contemporary Christian music.\n\nChristian music is supported by a segment of the general music industry which evolved as a parallel structure to the same. Beginning in the 1970s and developing out of the Jesus movement, the Christian music industry subsequently developed into a near-billion dollar enterprise. By the 1990s the genre had eclipsed classical, jazz, and new-age music, and artists began gaining acceptance in the general market.\n\nToday, Christian music is available through most available media. Christian music is broadcast over the radio, television, or the Internet. Christian Albums and video recordings (CD, LP, digital download, DVD, etc.) have been increasingly more popular and have continued to increase in sales.\n\nChristian Musicals is another growing area, especially with the help of the internet. Church drama groups frequently enjoy performing musical dramas which can be downloaded on-line for free use.\n\nIn the US several Christian music festivals have been organized. They are common in the summertime and draw many different people, specifically those from organized groups such as church youth groups and campus groups. In addition to music festivals like those that are part of the Christian Festival Association, there are also many Christian conferences which focus more on speakers, but usually also have musical performances, especially for a Worship service.\n\nThe Ichthus Music Festival started in 1970. Today festivals are held annually around the world, and may draw upwards of 100,000 people.\n\nNew Zealand's Parachute Music Festival, the largest Christian music festival in the Southern Hemisphere, began in 1989 and is held annually at Mystery Creek Events Centre outside the city of Hamilton.\n\nEngland's Big Church Day Out Festival began in 2009 and has annual attendance of approximately 20,000.\n\nLike any musical group or act, many Christian musical artists perform concerts in concert halls, bars & clubs, or outdoor venues, as well as in Church-related venues. Sometimes it may be for pure entertainment, other times with the intention of witnessing (evangelizing by bearing witness of one's faith), and other times may be part worship as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14912231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912231", "title": "Christianity and domestic violence", "text": "Christianity and domestic violence\n\nChristianity and domestic violence deals with the debate in Christian communities in relation to the recognition and response to domestic violence, which is complicated by a culture of silence and acceptance among abuse victims. There are some Bible verses that abusers use to justify discipline of their wives.\n\nChristian groups and authorities generally condemn domestic violence as inconsistent with the general Christian duty to love others and to the scriptural relationship between husband and wife.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, \"Men who abuse often use Ephesians 5:22, taken out of context, to justify their behavior, but the passage (v. 21-33) refers to the mutual submission of husband and wife out of love for Christ. Husbands should love their wives as they love their own body, as Christ loves the Church.\"\n\nSome Christian theologians, such as the Rev. Marie Fortune and Mary Pellauer, have raised the question of a close connection between patriarchal Christianity and domestic violence and abuse. Steven Tracy, author of \"Patriarchy and Domestic Violence\" writes: \"While patriarchy may not be the overarching cause of all abuse, it is an enormously significant factor, because in traditional patriarchy males have a disproportionate share of power... So while patriarchy is not the sole explanation for violence against women, we would expect that male headship would be distorted by insecure, unhealthy men to justify their domination and abuse of women.\"\n\nFew empirical studies have examined the relationship between religion and domestic violence, According to Dutton, no single factor explanation for wife assault was sufficient to explain the available data. A study by Dutton and Browning in the same year found that misogyny is correlated with only a minority of abusive male partners. Campbell's study in 1992 found no evidence of greater violence towards women in more patriarchal cultures. Pearson's study in 1997 observed \"Studies of male batterers have failed to confirm that these men are more conservative or sexist about marriage than nonviolent men\".\n\nIn \"Responding to Domestic Abuse,\" a report issued by the Church of England in 2006, suggests that patriarchy should be replaced rather than reinterpreted: \"Following the pattern of Christ means that patterns of domination and submission are being transformed in the mutuality of love, faithful care and sharing of burdens. 'Be subject to one another out of reverence for Christ'(Ephesians 5.21). Although strong patriarchal tendencies have persisted in Christianity, the example of Christ carries the seeds of their displacement by a more symmetrical and respectful model of male–female relations.\"\n\nBible verses are often used to justify domestic abuse, such as those that refer to male superiority and female submission. Others counter that the use of violence is a misinterpreted view of the male role. For instance, Eve (Genesis 2-3), is seen by some Christians to be disobedient to patriarchal God and man, and to many a generalized symbol of womanhood that must be submissive and subject to discipline, while others disagree with this interpretation.\n\nA subculture known as \"Christian domestic discipline\" (CDD) promotes spanking of wives by their husbands as a form of punishment. While its advocates rely on Biblical interpretations to support the practice, advocates for victims of domestic violence describe CDD as a form of abuse and controlling behavior. Others describe the practice as a simple sexual fetish and an outlet for sadomasochistic desires. Christan-conservative radio host Bryan Fischer said to the \"Huffington Post\" that it was a \"horrifying trendbizarre, twisted, unbiblical and un-Christian\"\n\nThere are a variety of responses by Christian leaders to how victims should handle abuse:\n\nA contributing factor to the disparity of responses to abuse is lack of training, many Christian seminaries had not educated future church leaders about how to manage violence against women. Once pastors began receiving training, and announced their participation in domestic violence educational programs, they immediately began receiving visits from women church members who had been subject to violence. The first Theological Education and Domestic Violence Conference, sponsored by the Center for the Prevention of Sexual and Domestic Violence, was held in 1985 to identify topics that should be covered in seminaries. First, church leaders will encounter sexual and domestic violence and they need to know what community resources are available. Secondly, they need to focus on ending the violence, rather than on keeping families together.\n\nThe American religious news-magazine \"Christianity Today\" has published articles lamenting U.S. churches for possibly making domestic abuse worse \"not in incidence, but in response\" due to inadequate understandings. In December 2017, academic W. Bradford Wilcox wrote for the publication, \"Domestic violence is still present in church-going homes... some local churches, clergy, and counselors fail to address abuse head-on for fear of breaking up a marriage.\" He also argued, \"Others steer clear of addressing the topic from the pulpit or in adult education for fear of broaching an uncomfortable subject. This silence around domestic violence has to end.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, when multiple programs were initiated to train church leaders about domestic violence, the response \"But no one ever comes to me with this problem\" often came up to frustrate efforts. Church leaders frequently believed that if no one reached out for assistance within their congregations that there was no problem for them to deal with; however, women often withheld discussing their problems over concern that it would not be handled appropriately. When women increasingly became pastors over the 20th century, many of them found that much of their time became devoted to handling domestic abuse and other forms of violence against women; \"crisis intervention\" became a vital topic for them.\n\nIn terms of regions of the United States, research has speculated that local societies with a general culture of violence and low socio-economic status, which may also be at least nominally religious, are more likely to produce abusive men. The role of working-class Scots-Irish American culture in areas such as Appalachia is cited.\n\nDiffering viewpoints between husband and wife may be an aggravating factor in terms of abuse, particularly when women hold beliefs in contrast to more ideologically hardline men.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21745149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21745149", "title": "Dardasht (Isfahan)", "text": "Dardasht (Isfahan)\n\nDardasht () is a central neighbourhood of Isfahan, Iran. Formerly known as Babol-Dasht, it is known for its historical minarets, cemetery and the Darb-i Imam Shrine, dated to 1453/857 AH. The Dardasht quarter of Isfahan was one of the major Jewish quarters of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "52195158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52195158", "title": "Dasapalanjika", "text": "Dasapalanjika\n\nDasapalanjika is a caste of Hindu religion.The people of Dasapalnjika are those who have shifted from Ummathur of Chamrajnagar District in Karnataka during the period of Emperor Hyder Ali\n"}
{"id": "10017322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10017322", "title": "Duende", "text": "Duende\n\nA duende is a creature from Iberian, Latin American, and Filipino folklore. The Spanish term \"duende\" originated as a contraction of the phrase or , \"possessor of a house\", and was originally conceptualized as a mischievous spirit inhabiting a house.\n\nThe word is also used in Portuguese folklore, being used to describe beings of a small stature wearing big hats, whistling a mystical song, while walking in the forest (and rendered in English by \"goblins\", \"pixies\", \"brownies\" and \"leprechauns\"). Using their talent, they are believed to lure young girls and boys to the forest causing them to lose their way home.\n\nConversely, in some Latin American cultures, duendes are believed to be the helpers of people who get lost in the forest so they could find their way home. In the folklore of the Central American country of Belize, particularly amongst the country's African/Island Carib-descended Creole and Garifuna populations, duendes are thought of as forest spirits called \"Tata Duende\" who lack thumbs.\n\nIn the Hispanic folklore of Mexico and the American Southwest, duendes are known as gnome-like creatures who live inside the walls of homes, especially in the bedroom walls of young children. They attempt to clip the toenails of unkempt children, often leading to the mistaken removal of entire toes. Belief in duendes still exists among the Mixtecs and Zapotecs of Oaxaca and it is said that they are most commonly found in the mossy cloud forests of the state's mountain ranges.\n\nSome Filipinos believe in dwende, which often dwell in rocks and caves, old trees, unvisited and dark parts of houses, or in anthills and termite mounds. Those that live in the last two are termed \"nunò sa punsó\" (Tagalog for “old man of the mound”). They are either categorized as good or evil depending on their color (white or black, respectively), and are often said to play with children (who are more capable than adults of seeing them). Offending a \"nunò sa punsó\" is taboo; people who step on them are believed to be cursed by the angered dwende within.\n\nThe Chamorro people of the Marianas Islands tell tales of the \"taotaomo'na\", duendes and other spirits. A duende, according to the \"Chamorro-English Dictionary\" by Donald Topping, Pedro Ogo and Bernadita Dungca, is a goblin, elf, ghost or spook in the form of a dwarf, a mischievous spirit which hides or takes small children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45276328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45276328", "title": "Federation of the Jewish Communities in Romania", "text": "Federation of the Jewish Communities in Romania\n\nThe Federation of the Jewish Communities in Romania (, FCER) is an ethnic minority political party in Romania representing the Jewish community.\n\nThe FCER contested the 1996 general elections, receiving 12,746 votes (0.1%) and winning a single seat in the Chamber of Deputies under the electoral law allowing political parties representing ethnic minority groups to be exempt from the electoral threshold only applied as long as they received 10% of the vote required for a single seat in the Chamber of Deputies. The party has won a seat in every election since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7734159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734159", "title": "Four of Swords", "text": "Four of Swords\n\nFour of Swords is a Minor Arcana tarot card.\n\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\n\"The effigy of a knight in the attitude of prayer, at full length upon his tomb.\" - \"The Pictorial Key to the Tarot\", by A.E. Waite\n\nVigilance, retreat, solitude, hermit's repose, exile, tomb and coffin. The single sword at the knight's side indicates a singularity of purpose and a great focus in life. Reversed: wise administration, circumspection, economy, avarice, precaution, testament.\n\nIt is mostly associated with a peaceful, still place. It reflects withdrawal, getting away and shifting the focus inwardly so that recovery and healing can take place.\n"}
{"id": "58613276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58613276", "title": "Hinduism in Malta", "text": "Hinduism in Malta\n\nHinduism is a minority religion in Malta. It is officially recognised as a cult but not as a religion in the country..\n\nThere are nearly 100 Hindu families in Malta that practise their Hindu faith, but there are no Hindu temples and the Hindu deceased are often buried in Malta instead of being cremated. There is a Maltese-Indian Community Centre in Triq Bella Vista, San Gwann that serves as a base for religious meetings. This community also organises an annual Diwali ball with live performances and celebrations.\n\nHindus in Malta celebrate Diwali, Holi Onam and other Hindu festivals.\n\nHinduism and Judaism are recognised as cults but not as religions in Malta. In 2010, Hindu and Jewish groups urged Pope Benedict XVI to intervene to ensure that Malta treats all religions equally before the law., but the Pope did not intervene. Rajan Zed, president of the Universal Society of Hinduism, and Rabbi Jonathan B. Freirich, a Jewish leader in California and Nevada in the US, said in a statement in Nevada that he believed the Catholic Church in Malta was not serious about sharing the minority religious viewpoint, and that he was disappointed that they did not want to discuss issues of religious equality with minority religions and denominations.\n"}
{"id": "1558277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558277", "title": "Inculturation", "text": "Inculturation\n\nIn Christianity, inculturation is the adaptation of the way Church teachings are presented to non-Christian cultures and, in turn, the influence of those cultures on the evolution of these teachings. This is a term that is generally used by Catholics, the World Council of Churches and some Protestants, other Protestants prefer to use the term \"contextual theology\".\n\nThe coexistence of Christianity and other cultures dates back to the apostolic age. Before his Ascension, Jesus instructed his disciples to spread his teachings to the ends of the earth (Mt 28,18; Mk 16,15) but did not tell them how. Saint Paul's speech to the Greeks at the Aeropagus of Athens (Acts 17:22-33) could be considered as the first inculturation attempt. The speech was not well received by all, according to verse 32: \"Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked\". Around the year 50, the apostles convened the first Church council, the Council of Jerusalem, to decide whether to include Gentiles and inculturate Gentile culture. The Council confirmed that Gentiles could be accepted as Christians without first converting to Judaism.\n\nCultural conflicts continued until Christianity incorporated the Greco-Roman culture. Similar inculturation occurred when the Roman Empire ceased and the Germanic and Medieval cultures became dominant, a process taking centuries. Early practitioners of inculturation in the history of missions include St. Patrick in Ireland and Sts. Cyril and Methodius for the Slavic peoples of Eastern Europe. After the schism of 1054, the Catholic Church was largely restricted to the Western parts of Europe. Attempts failed to return the sphere of influence to the cultures of the Middle East with the crusades and the Latin Empire in Constantinople (1204–1261). The Protestant Reformation generated a division in the Western Church. However, at the same time, Spanish and Portuguese discoveries of the Americas, Asia and Africa broadened contact with other cultures and civilizations.\n\nAfter the discoveries of new territories and the Council of Trent (1545–1563) the movement became more systematic, when the Catholic Church had to ponder how and to evaluate elements of ancient non-Christian cultures. Notable figures were, among others, José de Anchieta for the indigenous people of Brazil, Thomas Stephens (Jesuit) in Goa, Roberto de Nobili in Southern India, Alexandre de Rhodes in Vietnam.\n\nThe Jesuits Matteo Ricci, Adam Schall von Bell and others had successfully reintroduced Christianity to China. Ricci and Schall were appointed by the Chinese Emperor in Peking to be court mathematicians, court astronomers and even Mandarins. The first Catholic Church was built in Peking in 1650. The emperor granted freedom of religion to Catholics. Ricci had adapted the Catholic faith to Chinese thinking, permitting, among other things, the cultic veneration of ancestors, which he described as a mere cultural practice. The Holy See disagreed, deeming the veneration an act of worship and hence idolatry, and forbade any adaptation in the so-called Chinese Rites controversy in 1692 and 1742. The Chinese emperor felt duped and refused to permit any alteration of the existing Christian practices. The Church experienced missionary setbacks in 1721 when the Kangxi Emperor outlawed Christian missions. According to Franzen, \"The Vatican policy was the death of the missions in China.\"\n\nPope Leo XIII fostered inter-cultural diversity, leading to the reintegration of the Armenian Catholic Church into the Catholic Church in 1879. He opposed efforts to Latinize the Eastern Rite Churches, stating that they constitute a most valuable ancient tradition and symbol of the divine unity of the Catholic Church. His 1894 encyclical \"Praeclara gratulationis\" praised the cultural and liturgical diversity of expressions of faith within the Church. In \"Orientalum Dignitatis\" he repeated the need to preserve and cultivate diversity and declared different cultures to be a treasure. He opposed the latinization policies of his own Vatican and decreed a number of measures which preserved the integrity and distinctiveness of other cultural expressions.\n\nWhile Pope Pius IX and Pope Pius X tended to be slightly more Latin oriented, Benedict XV was especially concerned with the development of missionary activities, which had suffered so much during World War I. Inculturation meant to him first of all the development of domestic clergy. On November 20, 1919, he appealed to the Catholics of the world, to support missions and especially the development of local clergy, favouring a de-Europeanization of the Catholic missions. Pope Pius XI followed suit by promoting local clergy so the local cultures were better recognized. He held a mission congress in Rome in 1922 and personally consecrated each year bishops from Asia, Africa and Latin America. At his death 240 dioceses and administrations were in the hands of domestic bishops.\n\nIn 1939 Pope Pius XII, within weeks of his coronation, radically reverted the 250-year-old Vatican policy and permitted the veneration of dead family members in China. \nThe December 8, 1939 isuance from the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith issued at the request of Pius XII stated that Chinese customs were no longer considered superstitious but rather an honourable way of esteeming one's relatives, and therefore permitted by Catholics. The Church began to flourish again with twenty new arch-dioceses, seventy-nine dioceses and thirty-eight apostolic prefects, but only until 1949, when the Communist revolution took over the country.\nThe introduction of the Gospel means inculturation and not the destruction of local cultures. Pius emphasized this because not all seemed to understand this point. He wrote in Summi Pontificatus that a deeper appreciation of various civilizations and their good qualities is necessary to the preaching of the Gospel of Christ. And in his 1944 speech to the directors of the Pontifical Missionary Society, he said: \n\nInculturation was addressed in his encyclicals \"Evangelii praecones\" and \"Fidei donum\", issued on June 2, 1951 and April 21, 1957, respectively. Pius increased the local decision-making of Catholic missions, many of which became independent dioceses. Pius XII demanded recognition of local cultures as fully equal to European culture. Continuing the line of his predecessors, Pius XII supported the establishment of local administration in Church affairs: in 1950, the hierarchy of Western Africa became independent; in 1951, Southern Africa; and in 1953, British Eastern Africa. Finland, Burma and French Africa became independent dioceses in 1955.\n\nIn the Second Vatican Council, Paul VI promulgated the decree \"Ad gentes\", teaching that inculturation imitates the \"economy of Incarnation\".\n\nJohn Paul II addressed the issue in several encyclicals and public appearances. The term was used again by the encyclical \"Redemptoris Missio\" of John Paul II in 1990.\n\n\nBenedict XVI, like his predecessor, placed a high regard on the dialogue between cultures and religions. Though he at one point attempted to move from the notion of \"inculturation\" to \"inter-culturality\", he would later state that the inculturation of the faith is necessary, as long as the specificity and the integrity of the \"culture of faith\" are not compromised.\n\nAn event cited by some Church historians (such as James Hitchcock, Ph.D.) illustrating the difficulty of inculturation concerns Francis Xavier's missionary work in Japan. Xavier asked Anjiro (a convert from Kagoshima) for a Japanese word that would be the equivalent of \"Deus\" (Latin for god). Anjiro offered the word \"\"Dainichi\", the Cosmic Lord, in the tradition of the Japanese exoteric theism. Xavier rejected Anjiro's \"Dainichi\", after his religious debates with the Shingon Buddhists monks in Yamaguchi in 1551, because of its semantic connections with esoteric Buddhist tenets.\" The phrase had a \"Buddhist connection in the divine name of Dainichi-Mahavairocana\" (where \"Mahavairocana\", as the central divinity of the Shingon \"mandala\", has four divine attributes, 'the wisdom of the great mirror, equality, observation, and action' in the \"Mahavairocana-sutra\"\".) To avoid invoking the god of a competing religion, Xavier retranslated \"Deus\" into a simple phonetic equivalent \"Daiusu\". This turned out to be disastrous due to \"its phonetic similarity, \"Daiusu\" was heard as \"Great Lie (dai uso)\" by the Japanese. European priests attempting to use this word were often pelted on the streets by young Japanese ridiculing them with shouts of \"Deos, Deos, Deos.\" This choice of words resulted in the view that \"The Westerners were the progenitors of the \"Great Lie.\" And the Italian Jesuit Camillo Costanzo gives an account where a Japanese Christian on his deathbed called out \"Tenbo\" (which Costanzo defines as the name of a pagan god) and even when corrected reverts from \"Daiusu\" back to \"Tenbo\". Avoiding Xavier's difficulties Matteo Ricci and Roberto de Nobili did not attempt phonetic simulations but \"followed Anjiro's way of [cross-cultural] translation, identifying the Christian God's name with the 'native' Supreme Being's names in the lands of Confucianism and Hinduism.\" Hitchcock points out that one must have a deep understanding of both the essential tenets of the faith and a mastery of the culture to successfully engage in inculturation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48847929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48847929", "title": "Israelitische Cultusgemeinde Zürich (ICZ)", "text": "Israelitische Cultusgemeinde Zürich (ICZ)\n\nIsraelitische Cultusgemeinde Zürich (literally: Israelite Cultus Community Zürich), commonly shortened to \"ICZ\", is a Jewish community organized as an unified parish in the Swiss city of Zürich. Consisting of about 2,500 members, ICZ is the largest Jewish community in Switzerland. The community provides the Synagoge Löwenstrasse in Zürich-City, a community center and the largest Jewish library at its seat in Zürich-Enge, and two cemeteries (\"Unterer\" and \"Oberer Friesenberg\").\n\nA Jewish community in Zürich was first mentioned in 1273, but during the 1349 pogrom the Jewish citizens were banned from Zürich, and the synagogue was repealed. On 25 February 1352 Jewish citizens were allowed to live again within the medieval town walls. In 1363 the so-called \"Judenschuol\", a medieval term in Zürich for the Synagogue situated at the Neumarkt (Zürich) was mentioned. On 2 November 1383 the Jewish citizens of Zürich were allowed by Heinrich, Bishop of Konstanz, on request of the city council of Zürich to renew the Synagogue and the cemetery, under the reserve that exclusively Jews may be buried who resided (namely \"Burgrecht\") in Zürich. At the location of the former synagogue, a plaque was mounted towards \"Synagogengasse\" and Grimmenturm.\n\nThe surviving Jewish citizens of the 1349 pogrom, were expelled indefinitely from the city in 1423. Thereafter, the property probably was used from 1455 as an accommodation building, and the Jewish citizens were forbidden to live in the city and in the canton Zürich to 1850, even in the whole area of the today's Switzerland; excluded the two communities in Endingen and Lengnau in the Surb Valley. Among others, Jewish citizens from Endingen and Lengnau, 80 Jewish women, children and men in all, were allowed by the authorities to settle in the whole territory of the Canton of Zurich in 1850, and in 1862 only 175 people, including 100 in the Zürich district. After the repeal of the majoritiy legal restrictions on Jewish citizens, on 29 March 1862 the \"Israelitische Kultusverein\" (literal: Israelite Cultus Society) was founded by 12 members. In 1880 its name was changed in the present \"Israelitische Cultusgemeinde Zürich\". As early as in August 1877, the community tried to be accepted as a religious community in the canton of Zürich – the request was denied as \"otherwise, other sects might apply for a state contribution.\" Not as before 2007, the ICZ community got the \"cantonal\" acceptance by introducing the accordingly cantonal law on 1 January 2008. As of today, the unified Jewish community of Zürich is the largest Jewish community in Switzerland. Sigi Feigel, Mordechai Piron and Daniel Jositsch are among of the most prominent members of the community.\n\nThe library was awarded because of their special content as a Swiss heritage of national importance in 2009. Nevertheless, there were discussions in early 2014 about the future of this cultural heritage for financial reasons. The library of the largest Jewish community in Switzerland owns more than 50,000 volumes in Yiddish, Hebrew and German language. Among these there are, in addition to fiction, valuable scientific works, Judaica, Hebraica, Hebrew prints from the 16th to 18th century, theological literature (Talmudica), prayer books and Bibles.\n\nIn December 1939, the \"Verein Jüdische Bibliothek Zürich\" (literally: Jewish library Zürich association) handed over its stocks to establish the ICZ library while Jewish libraries in Europe were destroyed by the Nazi regime. After the war, Hannah Arendt, then managing director of the Jewish Cultural Reconstruction, Inc., handed over parts of the library of the Breslau Rabbinical Seminary in Germany which was suppressed by the Nazis. The oldest books of its collection date back to the 16th century, among them a 1595 print of Flavius Josephus' \"Antiquities of the Jews\", a testimony early book printing dating back to 1595.\n\nOn occasion of the 75th anniversary of the ICZ library, the anniversary edition \"Quelle lebender Bücher\" (literally: source of living books) was published, edited by the ICZ-librarians Yvonne Domhardt and Kerstin A. Paul, in which 75 people present their favorite book from the library. Among them are \"Five years in the country Neutralia\" by the Ukrainian journalist Shemariah Gorelik, who talks about his stay in Switzerland from 1914 to 1918. Or Johann Caspar Ulrich, who wrote as the first Christian author a veine history of Swiss Jews in the mid-18th-century. The contemporary Swiss writer Charles Lewinsky was inspired by a 1938 edition of the \"Israelitisches Wochenblatt\": the protagonist \"Felix Grün\" in Lewinsky's family saga \"Melnitz\". Not only because of the complete volumes of the newspaper \"Israelitisches Wochenblatt\", the ICZ is a rich cultural and historical source for Judaism in Switzerland, its library is a central place of the examination of Jewish identity, and \"with yourself\", the literature professor Andreas Kilcher wrote. The importance of the library was also shown on occasion of the debate on its possible division: \"The library is full of hidden comments to ourselves\". When for financial reasons the sponsorship publicly discussed to outsource the scientific inventory in the Zürich central library, by end of 2014 the \"Verein für Jüdische Kultur und Wissenschaft\" (literally: Association for Jewish Culture and Science), however, managed to collect from foundations and private donations the amount of CHF 250,000, and thus ensuring the financing of the library for another three years.\n\nThe ICZ provides the second-largest historical archives in the section Jewish contemporary history, right after the records of the Verband Schweizerischer Jüdischer Fürsorgen (VSJF), literally the \"Association of Jewish Swiss Welfare Services\". The rich and diverse archives contains both written and audio-visual media, among them photographs of the ICU presidents and collaborators, sound films, interviews e.g. with Sigi Feigel, speeches of Shimon Peres or Willy Brandt, a 1939 film showing the laying of the foundation stone of the community center allowing \"a deep insight into Jewish life and work\" in Zürich. The social section comprises hundreds of personal files and index cards, next to the protocols of the community meetings and the board meetings. Besides that, the records include numerous external contacts, and the political and cultural commitment of the ICZ which verify the community's regional position, as well as on national and international level. Antisemitism, racism, and the examination of WWII are the most important topics in these documents. The extensiveness and the antiquity of the educational and religious material, compared to other documents, show the importance of these tasks to the Jewish community. The first yearbook of religious education, or certificates illustrating the acquisition of land for the community's synagogue date back to the 1880s. On occasion of the 150th anniversary of the ICZ, in June 2012 the indexing of the historical archives of the ICZ was finished. The institutional record group has a volume of 85 running metres, but due to organisational reasons, documents of the rabbinate as well as of the heads and members of many commissions are still under the care of the ICZ.\n\nThe religious school was attended by 80 children in 1884, in 1894 there were 130 students, and 18 years later 230. Since 1898, the municipality has its own schoolhouse. The poor relief is governed since 1901.\n\nThe community center in Zürich-Enge was modernized in 2010. The social care for the sick and old people, for refugees, and people otherwise in need of help is from its foundation of the main duties of the ICZ.\n\nOn 5 July 1865 the Jewish community, which at that time numbered 30 members, mentioned the acquisition of a field for applying a cemetery. On 31 May 1866 it was inaugurated on occasion of the first funeral of a Jewish woman by the Lengnau Rabbi Dr. Meyer Kayserling. In 1892 a cemetery hall was built in the so-called \"Moorish\" style. After several expansions, a large second site was bought in 1916, and today the cemetery area comprises . Since the installation of the second cemetery in 1952, fewer and fewer burials were done at the very first Jewish cemetery in Zürich since the 14th century. Notable interments include Felix Salten (1860-1945), Joseph Schmidt (1904-1942) and Otto Klemperer (1885-1973).\n\nThe second ICZ cemetery was inaugurated in 1952 and extended in 1988, and it covers an area of . At the cemetery grounds there is a large cemetery hall with rooms for ablution (\"Tahara\"). The glass windows of the cemetery hall were designed by the Jewish artist Régine Heim-Freudenreich (1907-2004). A memorial stone (limestone cube) by Susi Guggenheim Weil recalls the victims of in the Nazi era. Notable interments include Hermann Levin Goldschmidt (1914-1998), Kurt Hirschfeld (1902-1964), Mascha Kaléko (1907-1975), Erwin Leiser (1923-1996), Albert Pulmann (1893-1965), Jenny Splatter Schaner (1907-1996), Margarete Susman (1872-1966), Lydia Woog (1913-2003), and Sigi Feigel (1921-2004), the former ICZ president.\n\nOn 6 July 2015 the ICZ has loosened the funeral arrangements for women. Henceforth, women are allowed at the funeral of a relative or friend of the deceased whose grave and can participate in all burial rites. Previously the related women had to wait along with the rest of the female mourners at the wayside and were not admitted to the grave, at least officially. In reality the presence of women at the grave has been tacitly accepted, but initiated by Chana Berlowitz, the municipal assembly decided a valid determination to change this old tradition. The women are therefore allowed not only to the grave of their relatives or fellow dead, they may also participate in the blades or speak the funeral prayer. In addition, the segregation among the mourners at the funeral chapel was abolished.\n\nThe danger for the Jewish community has increased continuously since the 2000s, and since the terrorist attacks on Jewish people in France and Belgium, the risk situation has become even more precarious. According to Swiss security experts, the current investments in security are at best adequate, but compared with France rather modest. Even the French government contributes to the security costs of the French Jewish communities, while the financial burden in Switzerland is supported solely by the Jewish communities. Because there is no state support for the protection of religious minorities in Switzerland, the municipality must pay for it themselves. Considering that, the Jewish community in Zürich urges government support for the rising security costs. Monitoring personnel, video surveillance and bulletproof windows are among the standard safety measures in Zürich. \"The security costs are further increased and almost unsustainable for the Jewish communities\", the Zürich police chief Richard Wolff said in an interview with the Tages-Anzeiger newspaper. Hence, the Jewish community stands like no other Swiss minorities in the focus of terrorist attacks. Wolff is responding to the demands of Shella Kerész, president of the ICZ, and the city of Zürich should take over half of the safety issues. For years, the Jewish community invested around 800,000 Swiss Francs (CHF) for the protection of their 2,500 community members, and these expenditures would be doubled within two years. In December 2015, a meeting on the situation of the Jewish minority in Switzerland was held in Bern. The main theme of the meeting: the rising need for security. Police chief Wolff said on occasion of a panel discussion that the responsibility for protecting the Jewish fellow citizens the government has to assume responsibility. Even the Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sport (VBS), established under Guy Parmelin a working group to draw up measures to protect Jewish institutions. There are discussed different options, among them financial monitoring or police or army protection, considering if the Swiss Convention for the Protection of National Minorities (\"Rahmenabkommen zum Schutz nationaler Minderheiten\" 1999) may provide the legal legitimacy. The Canton of Zürich, because it is home to the largest Jewish community with around 6,000 members, could serve as a Swiss national model.\n\nThe building of the Synagoge Zürich Löwenstrasse is listed in the Swiss inventory of cultural property of national and regional significance as a \"Class B\" object of regional importance, the ICZ library in Zürich-Enge at the Arboretum Zürich even as a \"Class A\" object of national importance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3771819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3771819", "title": "Keladi Chennamma", "text": "Keladi Chennamma\n\nKeladi Chennamma was the queen of Keladi Kingdom in Karnataka. She was the daughter of Siddappa Shettar, a native merchant of Sagara, Karnataka. Keladi Kingdom (also known as Bednur and Ikkeri), was formed after the fall of Vijayanagara Empire. Chennamma married King Somashekara Nayaka in 1667 CE. After Somashekhara Nayaka's death in 1677, Chennamma efficiently handled the administration of the Keladi Nayaka dynasty. During her reign of 25 years, she repelled the advances of the Mughal Army led by Aurangzeb from her military base in the kingdom of Keladi located in Sagara, Karnataka, India. She adopted Basavappa Nayaka, one of her close relatives who succeeded as Hiriya Basappa Nayaka. She also rendered a trade agreement with the Portuguese involving commodities like pepper and rice.\n\nShe was given the epithet \"the Pepper Queen\" or \"Raina da Pimenta\" by the Portuguese. She also permitted Portuguese to establish churches at Mirjan, Honnavara, Chandavara and Kalyanpura. In the state of Karnataka, she is celebrated along with Abbakka Rani, Kittur Chennamma, Belavadi Mallamma and Onake Obavva, as the foremost women warriors and patriots.\n\nShe provided shelter to Rajaram Chhatrapati, son of Shivaji who was fleeing from the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after a meeting with her cabinet and treated Rajaram with respect, but Aurangazeb attacked Keladi. Keladi Chennamma fought the war without defeat and battle with Mughals ended in a treaty. A subordinate of Keladi Kingdom, Sadasiva of Swadi also helped Rajaram through a loan. Keladi kingdom was probably the last to lose autonomy to Mysore rulers and subsequently to British. Her cabinet was headed by Timmanna Naik, who was the descendent of a commander of Vijayanagra.\n\nShe is considered as the epitome of the Kannada women's valor along with Rani Abbakka, Onake Obavva and Kittur Chennamma. Mirjan fort was built by Keladi Chennamma.\n\nChennamma was known to be a very virtuous and pious woman, and a pragmatic administrator of her times.\n"}
{"id": "6099167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6099167", "title": "Kutchi people", "text": "Kutchi people\n\nThe Kutchi people (Kutchi: કચ્છી) traditionally hail from the Kachchh/Kutch Region of the western Indian state of Gujarat. The Kutch Kadva Patidar caste people are mostly engaged in the timber business and agriculture. They are spreaded in states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telengana,Andhra Pradesh, Orrisa, Chattisgarh, Jarkhand, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, New-Delhi, Goa, Kerela and Uttar Pradesh. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12492094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12492094", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Brazil", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Brazil\n\nThis list of Catholic dioceses and archdioceses of Brazil which includes both the dioceses of the Latin Church, which employ the Latin liturgical rites, and various other dioceses, primarily the eparchies of the Eastern Catholic Churches, which employ various Eastern Christian rites, and which are in full communion with the Pope in Rome. \n\nThe Catholic Church in Brazil has a total of 275 particular churches — consisting of 44 archdioceses (which head 44 ecclesiastical provinces), 216 dioceses (2 of which are Eastern eparchies under Latin jurisdiction), 9 territorial prelatures, the Archeparchy of São João Batista em Curitiba and the Eparchy of Imaculada Conceição in Prudentópolis under the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, the Armenian Catholic Apostolic Exarchate of Latin America and Mexico, the Ordinariate for the Faithful of Eastern Rites in Brazil, the Military Ordinariate of Brazil, and the Personal Apostolic Administration of Saint John Mary Vianney ( the only personal apostolic administration for the Extraordinary form of the Roman Rite in the world). These 275 divisions make the largest number of particular churches in any country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"part of the Armenian Catholic Church (Armenian Rite)\n\n\"part of the Eastern particular Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, using its Ukrainian language Byzantine rite\n\n\"excluding those which were simply promoted to existing ones above\n\n"}
{"id": "190494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190494", "title": "List of Coptic Orthodox Popes of Alexandria", "text": "List of Coptic Orthodox Popes of Alexandria\n\nThe following is a list of all of the Coptic Orthodox Popes of Alexandria who have led the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria and have succeeded the Apostle Mark the Evangelist in the office of Bishop of Alexandria, who founded the Church in the 1st century, and therefore marked the beginning of Christianity in Africa.\n\nThe Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria is one of the Oriental Orthodox churches (not to be confused with the Byzantine Orthodox group of churches) and is presided over by the Pope and Patriarch of Alexandria who is the body's spiritual leader. This position is held since 2012 by Pope Tawadros II, Pope of Alexandria and Patriarch of all Africa on the Holy See of St. Mark.\n\nThe Oriental Orthodox believe that they are the \"one, holy, catholic, and apostolic\" Church of the ancient Christian creeds.\n\nHistorically, the title \"pope\" was first adopted by Pope Heraclas, the 13th Alexandrine Archbishop (232–249 AD), three centuries before it was assumed by John I, the Roman Bishop (523–526), who ratified the Alexandrian computation of the date of Easter. Bestowing the title on Rome's pontiff did not strip it from Alexandria's, and the Roman Catholic Church recognizes this.\n\nThe full ecclesiastical title is Papa Abba, and the person who bears it stands for the devotion of all monastics, from Pentapolis in the west to Constantinople in the east, to his guidance. Within the denomination, it is the most powerful designation, for all monks in the East to voluntarily follow his spiritual authority, and it is said that it should be assumed that he is a bearer of Christ.\n\nFor the Patriarchs of Alexandria prior to the schism after the Council of Chalcedon, see List of Patriarchs of Alexandria. For the patriarchs of the Byzantine Orthodox church after the split with the Oriental Orthodox church, see List of Greek Orthodox Patriarchs of Alexandria.\n\nNote that not all of the dates given are certain. The dates below are according to the Gregorian calendar. Some of the dates disagree with those given in Coptic publications such as \"The English Katameros\". In some cases, publications errors caused the difference and have been corrected. In other cases, calendar differences between the Julian and the Gregorian calendars have caused some confusion.\n\nDioscorus I served as Patriarch of Alexandria since 444 until he was deposed and exiled by the Council of Chalcedon in 451, but he was still recognized as the Coptic Pope until his death in 454.\n\n"}
{"id": "8144924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8144924", "title": "List of Messianic Jewish organizations", "text": "List of Messianic Jewish organizations\n\nMessianic Judaism is a syncretic religious movement that arose in the 1960s and 1970s. It is a mixture of Jewish symbols and Christian theology (itself derivative of ancient Jewish theology). Its believers are technically Christians.\n"}
{"id": "6221520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6221520", "title": "List of Parsis", "text": "List of Parsis\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n</noinclude>\n"}
{"id": "43425030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43425030", "title": "List of skeptical podcasts", "text": "List of skeptical podcasts\n\nThis is a list of podcasts that promote or practice scientific skepticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "37101479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37101479", "title": "Maha Sammata", "text": "Maha Sammata\n\nMaha Sammata (; ; also spelled Mahasammata; lit. \"the Great Elect\") was the first monarch of the world according to Buddhist tradition. The chronicles of Theravada Buddhist tradition such as \"Mahavamsa\" and \"Maha Yazawin\" state that he was the founder of the Sakya dynasty, to which the historical Buddha belonged. He was the first of the eleven world monarchs named Maha Sammata, each of whom founded the eleven dynasties that existed from the beginning to the day of the Buddha.\n\nThe future king was born \"in the beginning of the world\" in Jambudvipa, the only habitable continent on earth, to a family descended from the solar race. As no leaders or political orders were in existence, the people elected him to be their king. He ascended to the throne with the title Maha Sammata (\"the Great Elect\"), and took Manikpala, the sister of Vishnu as his queen. As king, he constituted the order of the city-state, the various duties and offices defined for the state, and the boundaries of armies of their protection. Moreover, he also established four different human estates (castes): the rulers, \"brahmins\", the wealthy and the poor. He also compiled the first \"dhammasattha\" (law treatise).\n\nThere are various historical facts, literature, poetry and cultural practices can be found in Sri Lanka related to Maha Sammata dynasty. Maha Sammata Manu was a rice paddy farmer became the king of the land called Oja Dheepa (today Sri Lanka). He was elected through a participatory democratic election conducted among the civilians, and he also had to show his talents with armory, regarding the country's security. The area where his ancient capital was Manu Arama today called Mannar District. His wife's name is Sankapali. Local people in the island today welcome scholars to study about him.\n\nAccording to the Mahavamsa Tika (subcommentary), Mahasammata was the bodhisatta in a previous life. The Jataka commentary identifies the primeval king Mahamandhata as being the bodhisatta as well, Mahamandhata being the great-great-great-great grandson of Mahasammata. Mahamandhata is given as an example of one who could obtain great sense-pleasure (and even to the glory of the gods) in his lifetime, but still had to die. The Cetiya Jataka states that the lifespan of Mahasammata was an asankheyya long (literally, \"cannot be calculated\").\n\nThe dynasty he founded was to have a line of 63,000 kings. That dynasty eventually fell because people forgot religion (\"dharma\"). The second dynasty was founded by the founder who took the title Maha Sammata II. That dynasty too eventually fell after another 63,000 kings later. The fall of the second dynasty was followed by the foundation of the third dynasty. The cycle of rising and falling dynasties continued to the day of the historical Buddha, over 2500 years ago. Based on the reporting in the Sinhalese and Burmese chronicles, each of the eleven cycles lasted 800 billion years, meaning the earth is 10 trillion years old. According to tradition, there were 334,569 kings (of the 11 dynasties) from Maha Sammata to the time of the historical Buddha.\n\nAccording to Theravada tradition, a total of 28 Buddhas have appeared including the historical Buddha. The first 24 Buddhas appeared in the first seven cycles. The last four Buddhas appeared in the most recent four cycles.\nMaha Sammata is mentioned in various Buddhist traditions. In addition to the Theravada accounts, Tibetan and Mongolian Buddhist schools describe him as the founder of political thought.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18331745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18331745", "title": "Mahameghavahana dynasty", "text": "Mahameghavahana dynasty\n\nThe Mahameghavahana dynasty (, c. 250s BC to 5th century CE) was an ancient ruling dynasty of Kalinga after the decline of the Maurya Empire. The third ruler of the dynasty, Kharavela is known by his Hathigumpha inscription.\n\nKharavela patronised Jainism, but did not discriminate against other religions.\n\nUdayagiri and Khandagiri Caves is the most prominent example of Mahameghavahana dynasty work. These caves were built in 2nd Century BCE during the rule of King Kharavela. Udayagiri means \"Sunrise Hill\" and has 18 caves while Khandagiri has 15 caves. The Hathigumpha cave (\"Elephant Cave\") has the Hathigumpha inscription, written by Raja Kharavela, the king of Kalinga in India, during the 2nd century BCE. The Hathigumpha inscription consists of seventeen lines incised in deep cut Brahmi letters starting with Jain Namokar Mantra. In Udayagiri, \"Hathigumpha\" (cave 14) and \"Ganeshagumpha\" (cave 10) are especially well known due to art treasures of their sculptures and reliefs as well as due to their historical importance. \"Rani ka Naur\" (Queen's Palace cave, cave 1) is also an extensively carved cave and elaborately embellished with sculptural friezes. Khandagiri offers a fine view back over Bhubaneswar from its summit. The \"Ananta cave\" (cave 3) depicts carved figures of women, elephants, athletes, and geese carrying flowers.\n\n"}
{"id": "7229733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7229733", "title": "Manfred Stern", "text": "Manfred Stern\n\nManfred Stern (also known as Emilio Kléber, Lazar Stern, Moishe Stern, Mark Zilbert) (1896–1954) was a member of the GRU, Soviet military intelligence. He served as a spy in the United States, as a military advisor in China, and gained fame under his \"nom de guerre\" as General Kléber, leader of the International Brigade during the Spanish Civil War.\n\nHe was born into a Jewish family in Bukovina (now Hlyboka Raion, Chernivtsi Oblast, Ukraine), a province of the Austro-Hungarian Empire on the border between Romania and Ukraine. He studied medicine at the University of Vienna.\n\nDrafted into the Austro-Hungarian army at the beginning of World War I, he was captured by the Tsarist army and taken to a prisoner of war camp in Siberia. Freed by the October Revolution, he became a Bolshevik and joined the Red Army. He led a partisan unit in Siberia against the White Army of Admiral Kolchak and fought in Mongolia against the warlord \"bloody\" Baron Ungern von Sternberg and his ally, the religious leader Bogd Khan. In 1921 he was elected to the Constituent Assembly of the short-lived Far Eastern Republic.\n\nAfter the Civil War, he returned to Moscow and enrolled in the Frunze Military Academy. Upon graduation, in 1924, he joined Walter Krivitsky in the Red Army's Fourth Department (the GRU, or military intelligence). He was assigned to the Comintern and acted as an instructor in its military schools.\n\nIn 1929, Stern became the GRU's chief spy in the United States. Based in New York City and operating under the cover name of Mark Zilbert, he managed a network of sources and agents involved in the theft of military secrets. In one operation they stole the plans for a new American tank. Another operation was foiled by a source who went to U.S. Naval Intelligence and continued to deliver faked documents to the Soviets.\n\nThe apparatus kept a safe apartment on West 57th Street, owned by Paula Levine, later part of a Soviet spy ring in Paris, and kept a photographic studio on Gay Street in Greenwich Village. There \"Charlie,\" in actuality Leon Minster, GRU operator of a front, the Ellem Radio Equipment Shop, microfilmed the stolen documents. German sailors acted as couriers to the GRU in Europe. (These details come from \"Witness\", the 1952 memoir of Whittaker Chambers.)\n\nAfter handing off to Alexander Ulanovsky in New York, Stern traveled in 1932 to Shanghai where he served as the Comintern's military advisor to the newly created Jiangxi Soviet. Stern's activities in China remain veiled in mystery. In a report to the Moscow Comintern, he claimed that he tried to forge an alliance between the Chinese Red Army and a rebel Nationalist army whose officers had seized control of nearby Fukien province. However, this alliance failed and the National Revolutionary Army, under the command of Chiang Kai-shek, encircled the Chinese Red Army, forcing them to abandon their base in Jiangxi and to begin the Long March.\n\nStern returned to Moscow in 1935 and worked briefly for Otto Kuusinen in the secretariat of the Executive Committee of the Comintern (ECCI).\n\nStern arrived in Spain on a hot day in September 1936, disguised inappropriately as a \"furrier.\" He adopted the name of one of Napoleon's generals, Jean-Baptiste Kléber, and posed as an Austrian-born Canadian citizen. He served as a military advisor to the International Brigades against Franco's rebel army.\n\nDuring the Battle of Madrid in November 1936, he led the 3,000 member XI International Brigade. At a time when it appeared all was lost —the Republican government of Largo Caballero had already abandoned the capital— the arrival of Kléber and the International Brigade boosted the morale of Madrid's Republican defenders when the loyalist troops fought from street to street and held the line at Casa de Campo, repulsing the Nationalists. Soviet propaganda broadcast the 'Victory over Fascism' throughout the world and —despite General Miaja's and General Vicente Rojo's crucial role— heralded General Kléber as the \"Savior of Madrid\". \"The New York Times\" correspondent Herbert Matthews interviewed Stern shortly after the battle. \"Listening to General Kléber,\" he wrote, \"one gets the impression of great dynamic force. He is a character possibly destined to play a great part in the troubled years which face the world... In thinking about him it is hard not to ponder on the ironical fact that Hitler is not the only native of Austria who is playing a great part in the Spanish Civil War.\"\n\nIn 1937 he led the newly established 45th Division, but the ineptitude of the unit in combat caused Kléber to be replaced by Hans Kahle as leader of the Republican Infantry division. Even so, Stern remained in Spain as liaison agent with the Republican Government and still enjoyed military prestige among Spanish Communist Party members. He left Spain when the International Brigades were withdrawn in October 1938.\n\nThe NKVD chief in Spain, Alexander Orlov, knew that Stern's recall meant certain imprisonment and death because in Moscow Joseph Stalin and Nikolai Yezhov were busy purging the Red Army. He offered to employ Stern as a member of the NKVD. While awaiting orders, Stern spent his final months in Spain relaxing at a small orange plantation and entertaining his young Spanish mistress. Kliment Voroshilov denied his transfer and ordered his return to Moscow.\n\nIn May 1939 a Military Collegium condemned Stern to fifteen years of hard labor. He became a non-person. His name was deliberately withheld from official Soviet histories of the Spanish Civil War. The remaining years of his life were spent in the Gulag and he died of exhaustion at a labor camp in Sosnovka on February 18, 1954.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49375500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49375500", "title": "Manumission inscriptions at Delphi", "text": "Manumission inscriptions at Delphi\n\nThe archaeological site of Delphi is an incredible source of information on Greek epigraphy. The most numerous single category of inscriptions are the manumission inscriptions, which reach roughly a number of 1300.\n\nManumission was called the action of liberation of a slave in antiquity. Slaves belonged to their masters until they served long enough or until they gathered the necessary sum of money for their liberation. When that moment came, the act of manumission had to be guaranteed by a god, most commonly Apollo. The slave was thus fictitiously sold to the deity, so that the sale action could never be violated. The act was recorded on inscriptions with a rather formulaic expression. \nThe majority of the manumission inscriptions of Delphi are gathered in two main spots: on the supporting wall of the parodoi of the theatre and on the polygonal wall, particularly the part which served as back wall to the portico of the Athenians. Most of the inscriptions date between 200 B.C. and 100 A.D.\n\nDespite their stylized expressions, these inscriptions offer an insights into Greek social and demographic history. Over 60% of the manumission inscriptions of Delphi concern female slaves. A comparison of prices proves that most female slaves were manumitted at a price roughly 20% lower than men. However, it seems that liberation in many cases was not complete: slaves are required under a paramone clause to stay with their ex masters for a specific period of time or until the latter passed away. One wonders what kind of freedom this was, but it seems that in some cases this was considered better than nothing, as the master did not have complete rights of life and death over them; furthermore, there were cases in which the slaves had become almost members of the family, so they did not want to be separated from their social environment, yet they would rather have the choice. \nThe manumission acts were usually attended by witnesses, whose names are also mentioned on the inscription. The other people mentioned are the priests of the temple of Apollo and thus manumission inscriptions constitute an excellent source for tracing the succession lists of the priesthood of Delphi.\n\nA typical manumission inscription is that of the female slave Meda:\n\n1 ἄρχο[ντος Ἀμφι]στ[ράτου]\n<br>μηνὸς [— — —]\n<br>κου, ἐπὶ τοῖσ[δε ἀπέδ]ο[τ]ο Τι-\n<br>μὼ Εὐδίκου, συνεπαινέοντος \n<br>5 τοῦ υἱοῦ αὐτᾶς Λαδίκου, σῶμα γυ-\n<br>ναικεῖον κοράσιον ἇι ὄνομα Μήδα,\n<br>τιμᾶς ἀργυρίου δύο μνᾶν, καθὼς ἐπί-\n<br>στευσε Μήδα τῶι θεῶι τὰν ὠνάν, ἐφ’ ὧι-\n<br>τε ἐλευθέρα εἶμεν καὶ ἀνέφαπτος \n<br>10 ἀπὸ πάντων τὸμ πάντα χρόνον, ποιοῦ-\n<br>σα ὅ κα θέληι. βεβαιωτὴρ κατὰ τοὺς\n<br>νόμους τᾶς πόλιος· Δρομοκλείδας. τρε-\n<br>φέτω δὲ Μήδα Σωσίβιον τὸν ἴδιον πατέ-\n<br>[ρ]α καὶ τὰμ ματέρα Σωσὼ καὶ εὐσχημο- \n<br>15 νιζέτω, ἐπεί κα ἐν ἁλικίαν ἔλθη, εἰ χρείαν ἔ-\n<br>χοισαν Σωσίβιος ἢ Σωσὼ τροφᾶς ἢ εὐσχημονι-\n<br>σμοῦ, εἴτε δουλεύοντες εἶεν εἴτε ἐλεύθεροι\n<br>γεγονότες· εἰ δὲ μὴ τρέφοι ἢ μὴ εὐσχημονίζοι Μήδα\n<br>Σωσίβιον ἢ Σωσὼ χρείαν ἔχοντας, ἐξουσία ἔστω \n<br>20 Σωσιβίωι καὶ Σωσοῖ κολάζειν Μήδαν ὧ[ι] θέλοιν\n<br>τρόπωι, καὶ ἄ[λλ]ωι ὑπὲρ Σωσίβιον ἢ Σωσὼ ὅγ κα κε-\n<br>λεύη Σωσίβιος ἢ Σωσώ. εἰ δέ τις ἐφάπτοιτο Μήδας\n<br>ἐπὶ καταδουλισμῶι, βέβαιον παρεχόντω τῶι\n<br>θεῶι τὰν ὠνὰν ἅ τε ἀποδομένα Τιμὼ καὶ ὁ βεβαι- \n<br>25 ωτὴρ Δρομοκλείδας· εἰ δὲ μὴ παρέχοισαν, πράκτιμοι\n<br>ἔστων Μήδαι καὶ Σωσιβίωι καὶ Σωσοῖ ἀργυρίου μνᾶν\n<br>{μ[ν]ᾶν} τεσσάρων κατὰ τὸν νόμον ἅ τε ἀποδομένα καὶ\n<br>ὁ βεβαιω[τ]ήρ. ὁμοίως δὲ καὶ ὁ παρατυχὼν κύριος ἔστω\n<br>Μήδαν σ[υλ]έων ὡς ἐλευθέραν ἀνυπόδικος ἐὼν καὶ ἀ- \n<br>30 ζάμιος πάσας δίκας καὶ ζαμίας, καθώς κα συλάση ἐπ’ ἐ-\n<br>λευθερίαι. μάρτυρες· οἱ ἱερεῖς τοῦ Ἀπόλλωνος Ἀμύντας\n<br>καὶ τῶν ἀρχόντων Ἄσανδρος, ἰδιῶται Μένης, Εὐκλῆς Ἐτυ-\n<br>μώνδα, Μεσατεύς, Ἄρχων Καλλία, Ἄθαμβος Ἀγάθω-\n<br>νος, Τυρβαῖος. \n\nIt is interesting to notice that the slave is mentioned in all manumission inscriptions as \" σῶμα\" (body). Meda appears to be a young girl, who is manumitted at a price of two silver minas, i.e. at the lowest level. Her obligation is to take care of her parents until she becomes an adult; a possible explanation is that the parents paid for her manumission. Both parents appear to be slaves as well. \nA careful examination of the names and place of origin of those who liberated their slaves proves that the \"trend\" of liberating slaves in Delphi came with the advent of the Aetolians. The majority of masters were of Aetolian origin at least in the first century. However, the trend soon spread and the next two largest categories are, naturally, Locrians and Phocians, who lived nearby.\n\n"}
{"id": "1356682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1356682", "title": "Marriage in Islam", "text": "Marriage in Islam\n\nIn Islam, marriage is a legal contract between a man and a woman. Both the groom and the bride are to consent to the marriage of their own free wills. A formal, binding contract - verbal or on paper - is considered integral to a religiously valid Islamic marriage, and outlines the rights and responsibilities of the groom and bride. There must be two Muslim witnesses of the marriage contract. Divorce in Islam can take a variety of forms, some executed by a husband personally and some executed by a religious court on behalf of a plaintiff wife who is successful in her legal divorce petition for valid cause.\n\nIn addition to the usual marriage until death or divorce, there is a different fixed-term marriage known as zawāj al-mutʻah (\"pleasure marriage\") permitted only by the Twelver branch of Shia Islam for a pre-fixed period. There is also Nikah Misyar, a non-temporary marriage with the removal of some conditions such as living together, permitted by Sunni Muslims. Sunnis also allow Nikah urfi and some sects of Sunni allow Nikah halala.\n\nIn Islamic law, marriage is called , an Arabic word whose original literal meaning is \" Wedding \", but which already in the Quran is used exclusively to refer to the contract of marriage. In the Wehr-Cowan Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic, is defined as \"marriage; marriage contract; matrimony, wedlock\".\n\nThe marriage contract is known by different names: Literary Arabic: ', \"matrimony contract\"; / ALA-LC: '; \"marriage\" and or (, ) for the certificate.\n\nIn Pre-Islamic Arabia a variety of different marriage practices existed. The most common and recognized types of marriage at this time consisted of: marriage by agreement, marriage by capture, marriage by mahr, marriage by inheritance and \"Mot'a\" or temporary marriage.\n\nAccording to Islamic sources, some women in pre-Islamic Arabia had little control over their marriages. They were rarely bound by contract for marriage or custody of children and their consent was rarely sought. Women were seldom allowed to divorce their husbands and their view was not regarded for either a marriage or divorce.\n\nMuhammad had reformed the laws and procedures of the common marriage practices that existed during his prophethood. The rules of \"marriage by agreement (marriage through consent)\" was reformed and a strict set of rules and regulations were put in place. The practices of \"marriage by inheritance\" was forbidden. Several chapters and verses from the Quran were revealed which banned such practices.\n\nUnder the Arabian pre-Islamic law, Islamic sources allege that no limitations were set on men's rights to marry or to obtain a divorce. Islamic law limited to men to four wives at one time, not including concubines. () The institution of marriage was refined into one in which the woman was somewhat of an interested partner. 'For example, the dowry, previously regarded as a bride-price paid to the father, became a nuptial gift retained by the wife as part of her personal property' Under Islamic law, marriage was no longer viewed as a \"status\" but rather as a \"contract\". The essential elements of the marriage contract were now an offer by the man, an acceptance by the woman, and the performance of such conditions as the payment of dowry. The woman's consent, given either actively or by silence, was required. Furthermore, the offer and acceptance had to be made in the presence of at least two witnesses. A married woman had the right to be given food and clothes by her husband, though her husband had more rights over her: \"I enjoin good treatment of women, for they are prisoners with you, and you have no right to treat them otherwise, unless they commit clear indecency. If they do that, then forsake them in their beds and hit them, but without causing injury or leaving a mark. If they obey you, then do not seek means of annoyance against them. You have rights over your women and your women have rights over you. Your rights over your women are that they are not to allow anyone whom you dislike to tread on your bedding (furniture), nor allow anyone whom you dislike to enter your houses. And their right over you are that you should treat them kindly with regard to their clothing and food.\"\n\nIslamic marriages require acceptance, in \"\", of the groom, the bride and the consent of the custodian (\"wali\") of the bride. The wali of the bride is normally a male relative of the bride, preferably her father. The wali can only be a free Muslim, unless the bride is of the Christian or Jewish faith; in such cases the bride should be given away by someone from her religious background. The bride is normally present at the signing of the marriage contract.\n\nThe \"Wali mujbir\" () is a technical term of Islamic law which denotes the guardian of a bride. In traditional Islam, the literal definition of \"wali\", which means \"custodian\" or \"protector\", is used. In this context, it is meant that the silence of the bride is considered consent. In most schools of Islamic law, only the father or the paternal grandfather of the bride can be wali mujbir.\n\nIf the conditions are met and a mahr and contract are agreed upon, an Islamic marriage ceremony, or wedding, can take place. The marital contract is also often signed by the bride. The consent of the bride is mandatory. The Islamic marriage is then declared publicly, in , aa'laan, by a responsible person after delivering a sermon to counsel and guide the couple. It is not required, though customary, that the person marrying the couple should be religiously well-founded in knowledge. The bridegroom can deliver the sermon himself in the presence of representatives of both sides if he is religiously educated, as the story goes about Imam Muhammad bin Ali around 829 AD . It is typically followed by a celebratory reception in line with the couple's or local customs, which could either last a couple of hours or precede the wedding and conclude several days after the ceremony.\n\nThe Quran tells believers that even if they are poor they should marry to protect themselves from immorality. The Quran asserts that marriage is a legitimate way to satisfy one's sexual desire. Islam recognizes the value of sex and companionship and advocates marriage as the foundation for families and channeling the fulfillment of a base need. Marriage is highly valued and regarded as being half of one's faith, according to a saying of Muhammad. Whether marriage is obligatory or merely allowed has been explored by several scholars, and agreed that \"If a person has the means to marry and has no fear of mistreating his wife or of committing the unlawful if he does marry, then marriage in his case is mustahabb (preferred).\"\n\nThe Quran outlines some conditions for a marriage to take place:\n\nAccording to Islam, both men and women have rights over each other when they enter into a marriage contract, with the husband serving as protector and supporter of the family most of the time, from his means. This guardianship has two aspects for both partners:\n\nSeveral commentators have stated that the superiority of a husband over his wife is relative, and the obedience of the wife is also restrictive. \n\nWomen are also reminded that in case the husband is not fulfilling his responsibilities, there is no stigma on them in seeking divorce. The Quran re-emphasizes that justice for the woman includes emotional support, and reminds men that there can be no taking back of the mahr or bridal gifts given to women, unless they are found guilty of sexual immorality . In unfortunate cases where the agreement was to postpone payment of the mahr, some husbands will bully their wives and insist on the return of what he gave her in order to agree to the dissolution of the marriage, this is un-Islamic and cruel. \"Where the husband has been abusive or neglectful of his responsibilities, he does not have the right to take his wife’s property in exchange for her freedom from him. Unfortunately most couples refuse to go to the judge and binding arbitration for these issues even though the Quran says:\"And if you fear a breach between them, then appoint an arbiter from his folk and an arbiter from her folk. If they (the arbiters) desire reconciliation, Allah will affect it between them. Surely, Allah is All-Knowing, All-Aware.\" \n\n\"Mahr\" (\"donatio propter nuptias\") differs from a marriage dowry or gift, in that it is mandatory for a Muslim marriage and is paid by the groom to the bride. The amount of money or possessions of the mahr is paid by the groom to the bride at the time of marriage for her exclusive use. The mahr does not have to be money, but it must have monetary value. Therefore \"it cannot be love, honesty, being faithful, etc., which are anyway traits of righteous people.\" If the marriage contract fails to contain an exact, specified mahr, the husband must still pay the wife a judicially determined sum.\n\nMahr is mentioned several times in the Quran and Hadith, and there is no maximum limit to the amount the groom may pay as mahr, but at a minimum it is an amount that would be sufficient for the woman to be able to survive independently if her husband dies or they divorce.\n\nWith prior mutual agreement, the mahr may also be paid in parts to the bride with an amount given by the groom to the bride at the signing of the marriage contract, also called a \"mu'qadamm\" (in ), and the later portion postponed to a date during the marriage, also called a \"mu'akhaar\" (in ). Various Romanized transliterations of \"mu'qadamm\" and \"mu'akhaar\" are accepted. Such an agreement does not make the full amount of the mahr any less legally required, nor is the husband's obligation to fulfill the agreement waived or lessened while he fulfills his obligations to reasonably house, feed, or cloth the wife (and any children produced from the union) during the marriage.\n\nQuran [4:4] \"You shall give the women their due dowries, equitably.\"\n\nQuran [5:5] \"Today, all good food is made lawful for you. The food of the people of the scripture is lawful for you. Also, you may marry the chaste women among the believers, as well as the chaste women among the followers of previous scripture, provided you pay them their due dowries. You shall maintain chastity, not committing adultery, nor taking secret lovers. Anyone who rejects faith, all his work will be in vain, and in the Hereafter he will be with the losers.\"\n\nQuran [60:10] \"O you who believe, when believing women (abandon the enemy and) ask for asylum with you, you shall test them. GOD is fully aware of their belief. Once you establish that they are believers, you shall not return them to the disbelievers. They are not lawful to remain married to them, nor shall the disbelievers be allowed to marry them. Give back the dowries that the disbelievers have paid. You commit no error by marrying them, so long as you pay them their due dowries. Do not keep disbelieving wives (if they wish to join the enemy). You may ask them for the dowry you had paid, and they may ask for what they paid. This is GOD's rule; He rules among you. GOD is Omniscient, Most Wise.\"\n\nThe marriage contract is concluded between the \"wali\", or guardian, of the bride and bridegroom, not between bridegroom and bride . The \"wali\" of the bride can only be a free Muslim. The \"wali\" of the bride is normally a male relative of the bride, preferably her father. If the bride is a virgin, the \"wali mujbir\", that is her father or paternal grandfather, can not force the bride into the marriage against her proclaimed will; according to most scholars. According to Khomeini and Ali al-Sistani, both Shia scholars (both having the degrees mujtahid and marja'), and also almost all contemporary scholars, the marriage is invalid without bride's free consent and no obligation can make marriage official and legal.\n\nThe notable example to this is the Hanafi school (the largest of the four classical schools of Islamic thought), which holds that a bride's permission is required if she has reached puberty. They also hold that if a bride was forced into marriage before reaching puberty, then upon attaining puberty she has the option to nullify the marriage if she wishes. A \"wali\" other than the father or the paternal grandfather of the bride, then called \"wali mukhtar\", needs the consent of the bride according to the majority of scholars. If the bride is silent about the issue, i.e. her wali expressed his intention to marry her off to a certain man, and she did not object to it; then consent is assumed via her lack of objection.\n\nFor all schools of Islamic jurisprudence the systematization of their school is the guideline for their decision, not single hadiths, that liberal Muslims often cite . Two of these hadiths are the following:\n\nAbu Hurayrah reported that the Prophet said: \"A non-virgin woman may not be married without her command, and a virgin may not be married without her permission; and it is permission enough for her is to remain silent (because of her natural shyness).\" [Al-Bukhari:6455, Muslim & Others].\n\nIt is reported in a hadith that A'ishah related that she asked the Prophet : \"In the case of a young girl whose parents marry her off, should her permission be sought or not?\" He replied: \"Yes, she must give her permission.\" She then said: \"But a virgin would be shy, O Messenger of Allaah!\" He replied: \"Her silence is [considered as] her permission.\" [Al-Bukhari, Muslim, & Others]\nSource: 'Al-Masaa’il Al-Maardeeniyyah' by: Imaam Ibn Taymiyyah.\n\nChildren in some Muslim sub-cultures who defy their parents' wishes may in practice, suffer penalties supported by the community. International awareness, campaigns and organizations such as the U.K.'s Forced Marriage Unit have recognized the severity of this human rights issue and their rescue and support services extend beyond the borders of U.K. territories. Some countries have instituted prison time for parents who try to coerce their children into such unions.\n\nDivorce in Islam can take a variety of forms, some initiated by the husband and some initiated by the wife. The theory and practice of divorce in the Islamic world have varied according to time and place. Historically, the rules of divorce were governed by sharia, as interpreted by traditional Islamic jurisprudence, and they differed depending on the legal school. Historical practice sometimes diverged from legal theory. In modern times, as personal status (family) laws were codified, they generally remained \"within the orbit of Islamic law\", but control over the norms of divorce shifted from traditional jurists to the state.\n\nIn certain sections of the pre-Islamic Arab tradition, the son could inherit his deceased father's other wives (i.e. not his own mother) as a wife. The Quran prohibited this practice.\n\nMarriage between people related in some way is subject to prohibitions based on three kinds of relationship. The following prohibitions are given from the male perspective for brevity; the analogous counterparts apply from the female perspective; e.g., for \"aunt\" read \"uncle\".\nThe Quran states:\n\nSeven relations are prohibited because of consanguinity, i.e. kinship or relationship by blood, viz. mothers, daughters, sisters, paternal aunts, maternal aunts and nieces (whether sister's or brother's daughters). In this case, no distinction is made between full and half relations, both being equally prohibited. Distinction is however made with step relations i.e. where both the biological mother and father of a couple wishing to marry are separate individuals for both parties, in which case it is permitted. The word \"mother\" also connotes the \"father’s mother\" and \"mother’s mother\" all the way up. Likewise the word \"daughter\" also includes the \"son’s daughter\" and \"daughter’s daughter\" all the way down. The sister of the maternal grandfather and of the paternal grandmother (great aunts) are also included on equal basis in the application of the directive.\n\nMarriage to what are sometimes described as foster relations in English are not permitted, although the concept of \"fosterage\" is not the same as is implied by the English word. The relationship is that formed by suckling from the breast of a wet nurse. This is what is meant by \"fosterage\" in Islam in the quotation below. In Islam, the infant is regarded as having the same degree of affinity to the wet nurse as in consanguinity, so when the child grows up marriage is prohibited to those related to the wet nurse by the same degree as if to the child's own mother.\n\nHadith reports confirm that fosterage does not happen by a chance suckling, it refers to the first two years of a child's life before it is weaned. Islahi writes that \"this relationship is established only with the full intent of those involved. It only comes into being after it is planned and is well thought of\".\n\nThe daughter-in-law is prohibited for the father, and the mother-in-law, the wife’s daughter, the wife’s sister and daughters of the wife's siblings (nieces), the maternal and paternal aunts of the wife are all prohibited for the husband. However, these are conditional prohibitions:\n\nThe Quran states:\n\n\nNote: Marriage between cousins is not prohibited.\n\nAccording to sharia law, Muslims are allowed to practice polygyny. According to the Quran, a man may have up to four legal wives at any one time.\n\nThe husband is required to treat all wives equally. If a man fears that he will not be able to meet these conditions then he is not allowed more than one wife.\n\n\"If he fears that he shall not be able to deal justly with the orphans, marry women of your choice, two, or three, or four; but if he fear that he shall not be able to deal justly (with them), then only one, or that which your right hands possess. That will be more suitable, to prevent you from doing injustice.\" (Qur'an 4:3) Yusuf Ali translation.\n\nA bride-to-be may include terms in her marriage contract that require monogamy for her husband or require her consent before he marries another wife.\n\nPolyandry is forbidden. A woman cannot have more than one husband at a time.\n\nSororal polygyny is forbidden. A man cannot marry:\n\nA woman cannot marry after divorce or death of her husband for a certain period. This period is known as iddah.\n\nIn today’s world, Muslims practice Islamic marital laws in a multitude of ways all over the globe. In the United States, for example, 95% of Muslim American couples included in a 2012 study by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding had completed both the Nikkah and had obtained a civil marriage license, which is required to have a marriage legally recognized in the United States. The study also shares that “In some cases, the Islamic marriage contract is completed once the couple has decided to get married, but cohabitation occurs later after the wedding reception. In other cases, the Islamic marriage contract is completed simultaneously with the civil marriage and is followed immediately by the wedding reception.”\n\nThere is ongoing debate about whether or not Sharia law should be recognized in western countries like the United States and Australia that would allow for the Nikkah to be recognized as a legally valid marriage. There are also other elements to the Islamic marriage rituals that have difficulty being acknowledged in courts, according to the study, including the Mahr, or the dowry. Women who are denied their dowry do not have a clear path to legal contestation in either the US or Canada.\n\nStudies have also shown that even young Muslim Americans who might describe themselves as “not very religious “embrace the rituals of their faith at important moments of transition – birth, death and marriage. These occasions motivate reaffirmation of emotional and behavioral touchstones, even for those who do not practice their faith by attending mosque, praying or fasting regularly.”\n\nWhen it comes to divorce, the 2014 study conducted by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding states that, \"Two divorce rates commonly cited for American Muslims include 32.33% and 21.3%, respectively.\" Within the United States and Canada, many Muslim couples interviewed in the study mention that they value a religious divorce and its proceedings. Some turn to religious figure to help them navigate the divorce process, while many still go through the courts to terminate the civil marriage. Divorced Muslim women today also face the stigmas associated with being divorced within the North American Muslim community that can make it difficult for them seek remarriage.\n\nGender roles and ideas about marriage have also shifted since the early onset of Islam when many of the rules around marriage were established. ISPU reports that “the most frequent source of marital conflict in this study was conflict over changing gender roles and expectations”, citing a nation-wide increase in women in higher education and professional jobs over the past three decades, and, “In many cases are trying to integrate childrearing and family life with professional goals”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7529762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7529762", "title": "Millî Görüş", "text": "Millî Görüş\n\nMillî Görüş (, \"National Outlook\" or \"National Vision\") is a religio-political movement and a series of Islamist parties inspired by Necmettin Erbakan. It has been called one of \"the leading Turkish diaspora organizations in Europe\" and also described as the largest Islamic organization operating in the West. Founded in 1969, the movement claimed to have \"87,000 members across Europe, including 50,000 in Germany,\" as of 2005. The term also refers to the \"religious vision\" of the organization that emphasizes the moral and spiritual strength of Islamic faith (Iman) and explains the Muslim world's decline as a result of its imitation of Western values (such as secularism) and inappropriate use of Western technology. The Movement is active in nearly all European countries and also countries like Australia Canada and the United States.\nIn 1969 the Turkish politician Necmettin Erbakan published a manifesto that he gave the title Millî Görüş. It spoke only in the most general terms of Islamic moral and religious education but devoted much attention to industrialization, development and economic independence.\n\nIt warned against further rapprochement towards Europe, considering the Common Market to be a Zionist and Catholic project for the assimilation and de-Islamization of Turkey and called instead for Pan-Islamism. According to author Banu Eligur, Erbakan and the party \"used the code words \"national\" and \"culture\" to refer to Islam, and \"National Vision\" to refer to the project of Political Islam\" as \"it is illegal\" in Turkey \"to use religious symbols for political purposes.\"\n\nThe name of Millî Görüş would remain associated with a religio-political movement and a series of Islamist parties inspired by Erbakan, one succeeding the other as they were banned for violating Turkey’s secularist legislation.\n\nFollowing the ban of the Virtue Party (FP), a rift that had been developing in the movement resulted in two parties taking its place, the Felicity Party (SP) representing Erbakan’s old guard, and the Justice and Development Party (AK Party) led by younger and more pragmatic politicians around Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, which claims to have renounced a specifically Islamist agenda. The AK Party convincingly won the 2002 elections and formed a government with a strong popular mandate, that brought Turkey closer to acceptance for membership in the European Union than any previous government had done.\n\nAmong the Turkish immigrants in Western Europe, Milli Görüş became one of the major, if not the major, religious movements, controlling numerous mosques. Like the movement in Turkey, it went through some remarkable changes, not least because the first generation, which was strongly oriented towards what happened in Turkey, is gradually surrendering leadership to a younger generation that grew up in Europe and is concerned with entirely different matters. Milli Görüş’ public profile shows considerable differences from one country to the next, suggesting that nature of the interaction with the ‘host’ societies may have as much of an impact on its character as a religious movement as the relationship with the ‘mother’ movement in Turkey.\n\nAccording to several sources in Germany the attitude of the German branch towards Turkey has completely changed. After the taking over of Erdogan and the AKP the organisation is mainly serving the interest of the turkish government which now subsidizes the organisation. Diyanet, AKP and the turkish government practically control the organisations public statements and appearances. \nBecause of fraud and criminal offences of the board of directors several trials are running against the organisation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "53831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53831", "title": "Missionary", "text": "Missionary\n\nA missionary is a member of a religious group sent into an area to proselytize or perform ministries of service, such as education, literacy, social justice, health care, and economic development. The word \"mission\" originates from 1598 when the Jesuits sent members abroad, derived from the Latin \"missionem\" (nom. \"missio\"), meaning \"act of sending\" or \"mittere\", meaning \"to send\". The word was used in light of its biblical usage; in the Latin translation of the Bible, Christ uses the word when sending the disciples to preach The gospel in his name. The term is most commonly used for Christian missions, but can be used for any creed or ideology.\n\nA Christian missionary can be defined as \"one who is to witness across cultures\". The Lausanne Congress of 1974, defined the term, related to Christian mission as, \"to form a viable indigenous church-planting movement\". Missionaries can be found in many countries around the world.\n\nIn the Bible, Jesus is recorded as instructing the apostles to make disciples of all nations (, ). This verse is referred to by Christian missionaries as the Great Commission and inspires missionary work.\n\nThe Christian Church expanded throughout the Roman Empire already in New Testament times and is said by tradition to have reached even further, to Persia (Church of the East) and to India (Saint Thomas Christians). During the Middle Ages the Christian monasteries and missionaries such as Saint Patrick (5th century), and Adalbert of Prague (ca 956-997) propagated learning and religion beyond the European boundaries of the old Roman Empire. In 596, Pope Gregory the Great (in office 590-604) sent the Gregorian Mission (including Augustine of Canterbury) into England. In their turn, Christians from Ireland (the Hiberno-Scottish mission) and from Britain (Saint Boniface (ca 675-754), and the Anglo-Saxon mission, for example) became prominent in converting the inhabitants of central Europe.\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, the Catholic Church established a number of missions in the Americas and in other Western colonies through the Augustinians, Franciscans, and Dominicans to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the Native Americans and other indigenous people. About the same time, missionaries such as Francis Xavier (1506–1552) as well as other Jesuits, Augustinians, Franciscans, and Dominicans reached Asia and the Far East, and the Portuguese sent missions into Africa. Emblematic in many respects is Matteo Ricci's Jesuit mission to China from 1582, which was totally peaceful and non-violent. These missionary movements should be distinguished from others, such as the Baltic Crusades of the 12th and 13th centuries, which were arguably compromised in their motivation by designs of military conquest.\nMuch contemporary Catholic missionary work has undergone profound change since the Second Vatican Council of 1962-1965, with an increased push for indigenization and inculturation, along with social justice issues as a constitutive part of preaching the Gospel.\n\nAs the Catholic Church normally organizes itself along territorial lines and had the human and material resources, religious orders, some even specializing in it, undertook most missionary work, especially in the era after the collapse of the Roman Empire in the West. Over time, the Holy See gradually established a normalized Church structure in the mission areas, often starting with special jurisdictions known as apostolic prefectures and apostolic vicariates. At a later stage of development these foundations are raised to regular diocesan status with a local bishops appointed. On a global front, these processes were often accelerated in the later 1960s, in part accompanying political decolonization. In some regions, however, they are still in course.\n\nJust as the Bishop of Rome had jurisdiction also in territories later considered to be in the Eastern sphere, so the missionary efforts of the two 9th-century saints Cyril and Methodius were largely conducted in relation to the West rather than the East, though the field of activity was central Europe. \n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church, under the Orthodox Church of Constantinople undertook vigorous missionary work under the Roman Empire and its successor the Byzantine Empire. This had lasting effects and in some sense is at the origin of the present relations of Constantinople ith some sixteen Orthodox national churches including the Romanian Orthodox Church, the Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church, and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (both traditionally said to have been founded by the missionary Apostle Andrew), the Bulgarian Orthodox Church (said to have been founded by the missionary Apostle Paul). The Byzantines expanded their missionary work in Ukraine after the mass baptism in Kiev in 988. The Serbian Orthodox Church had its origins in the conversion by Byzantine missionaries of the Serb tribes when they arrived in the Balkans in the 7th century. Orthodox missionaries also worked successfully among the Estonians from the 10th to the 12th centuries, founding the Estonian Orthodox Church.\n\nUnder the Russian Empire of the 19th century, missionaries such as Nicholas Ilminsky (1822–1891) moved into the subject lands and propagated Orthodoxy, including through Belarus, Latvia, Moldova, Finland, Estonia, Ukraine, and China. The Russian St. Nicholas of Japan (1836–1912) took Eastern Orthodoxy to Japan in the 19th century. The Russian Orthodox Church also sent missionaries to Alaska beginning in the 18th century, including Saint Herman of Alaska (died 1836), to minister to the Native Americans. The Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia continued missionary work outside Russia after the 1917 Russian Revolution, resulting in the establishment of many new dioceses in the diaspora, from which numerous converts have been made in Eastern Europe, North America, and Oceania.\n\nEarly Protestant missionaries included John Eliot and contemporary ministers including John Cotton and Richard Bourne, who ministered to the Algonquin natives who lived in lands claimed by representatives of the Massachusetts Bay Colony in the early 17th century. Quaker \"publishers of truth\" visited Boston and other mid-17th century colonies, but were not always well received.\n\nThe Danish government began the first organized Protestant mission work through its College of Missions, established in 1714. This funded and directed Lutheran missionaries such as Bartholomaeus Ziegenbalg in Tranquebar, India, and Hans Egede in Greenland. In 1732, while on a visit in 1732 to Copenhagen for the coronation of his cousin King Christian VI, the Moravian Church's patron Nicolas Ludwig, Count von Zinzendorf, was very struck by its effects, and particularly by two visiting Inuit children converted by Hans Egede. He also got to know a slave from the Danish colony in the West Indies. When he returned to Herrnhut in Saxony, he inspired the inhabitants of the villageit had fewer than thirty houses thento send out \"messengers\" to the slaves in the West Indies and to the Moravian missions in Greenland. Within thirty years, Moravian missionaries had become active on every continent, and this at a time when there were fewer than three hundred people in Herrnhut. They are famous for their selfless work, living as slaves among the slaves and together with the Native Americans, the Delaware (i.e., Lenni Lenape) and Cherokee Indian tribes. Today, the work in the former mission provinces of the worldwide Moravian Church is carried on by native workers. The fastest-growing area of the work is in Tanzania in Eastern Africa. The Moravian work in South Africa inspired William Carey and the founders of the British Baptist missions. , seven of every ten Moravians live in a former mission field and belong to a race other than Caucasian.\n\nMuch Anglican mission work came about under the auspices of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts (SPG, founded in 1701), the Church Missionary Society (CMS, founded 1799) and of the Intercontinental Church Society (formerly the Commonwealth and Continental Church Society, originating in 1823).\n\nWith a dramatic increase in efforts since the 20th century, and a strong push since the \"Lausanne I: The International Congress on World Evangelization\" in Switzerland in 1974, modern evangelical groups have focused efforts on sending missionaries to every ethnic group in the world. While this effort has not been completed, increased attention has brought larger numbers of people distributing Bibles, Jesus videos, and establishing evangelical churches in more remote areas.\n\nInternationally, the focus for many years in the later 20th century was on reaching every \"people group\" with Christianity by the year 2000. Bill Bright's leadership with Campus Crusade, the Southern Baptist International Mission Board, The Joshua Project, and others brought about the need to know who these \"unreached people groups\" are and how those wanting to tell about the Christian God and share a Christian Bible could reach them. The focus for these organizations transitioned from a \"country focus\" to a \"people group focus\". (From \"What is a People Group?\" by Dr. Orville Boyd Jenkins: A \"people group\" is an ethnolinguistic group with a common self-identity that is shared by the various members. There are two parts to that word: ethno and linguistic. Language is a primary and dominant identifying factor of a people group. But there are other factors that determine or are associated with ethnicity.)\nWhat can be viewed as a success by those inside and outside the church from this focus is a higher level of cooperation and friendliness among churches and denominations. It is very common for those working on international fields to not only cooperate in efforts to share their gospel message, but view the work of their groups in a similar light. Also, with the increased study and awareness of different people groups, western mission efforts have become far more sensitive to the cultural nuances of those they are going to and those they are working with in the effort.\n\nOver the years, as indigenous churches have matured, the church of the \"Global South\" (Africa, Asia, and Latin America) has become the driving force in missions. Korean and African missionaries can now be found all over the world. These missionaries represent a major shift in church history.\n\nBrazil, Nigeria, and other countries have had large numbers of their Christian adherents go to other countries and start churches. These non-western missionaries often have unparalleled success; because, they need few western resources and comforts to sustain their livelihood while doing the work they have chosen among a new culture and people.\n\nOne of the first large-scale missionary endeavors of the British colonial age was the Baptist Missionary Society, founded in 1792 as the Particular Baptist Society for the Propagation of the Gospel Amongst the Heathen.\n\nThe London Missionary Society was an evangelical organisation, bringing together from its inception both Anglicans and Nonconformists; it was founded in England in 1795 with missions in Africa and the islands of the South Pacific. The Colonial Missionary Society was created in 1836, and directed its efforts towards promoting Congregationalist forms of Christianity among \"British or other European settlers\" rather than indigenous peoples.\n\nThe Church Mission Society, first known as the Society for Missions to Africa and the East, was founded in 1799 by evangelical Anglicans centred around the anti-slavery activist William Wilberforce. It bent its efforts to the Coptic Church, the Ethiopian Church, and India, especially Kerala; it continues to this day. Many of the network of churches they established became the Anglican Communion.\n\nIn 1809, the London Society for Promoting Christianity Amongst the Jews was founded, which pioneered mission amongst the Jewish people; it continues today as the Church's Ministry Among Jewish People. In 1865, the China Inland Mission was founded, going well beyond British controlled areas; it continues as the OMF, working throughout East Asia.\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) has an active missionary program. Young men between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five are encouraged to prepare themselves to serve a two-year, self-funded, full-time proselytizing mission. Young women who desire to serve as missionaries can serve starting at the age of nineteen, for one and a half years. Retired couples also have the option of serving a mission. Missionaries typically spend two weeks in a Missionary Training Center (or two to three months for those learning a new language) where they study the scriptures, learn new languages when applicable, prepare themselves to teach the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and learn more about the culture and the people they live among. As of January 2014, the LDS Church had over 80,000 missionaries worldwide and over 10,000 Welfare Services Missionaries.\n\nThe sending of missioners from the U.S. Church was seen as a sign of the U.S. Catholic Church finally coming of age.\n\nWhen two American Catholic priests from distinctly different backgrounds met in Montreal in 1910, they discovered they had one thing in common. Father James Anthony Walsh, a priest from the heart of Boston, and Father Thomas Frederick Price, the first native North Carolinian ordained into the priesthood, recognized that through their differences, they were touched by the triumph of the human spirit and enriched by encountering the faith experience of others. This was the foundation of their mutual desire to build a seminary for the training of young American men for the foreign Missions.\n\nCountering arguments that the Church needed workers here, Fathers Walsh and Price insisted the Church would not flourish until it sent missioners overseas. Independently, the men had written extensively about the concept, Father Price in his magazine \"Truth\", and Father Walsh in the pages of \"A Field Afar\", an early incarnation of \"Maryknoll Magazine\". Together, they formulated plans to establish a seminary for foreign missionaries. With the approval of the American hierarchy, the two priests traveled to Rome in June 1911 to receive final approval from Pope Pius X for their project. On June 29, 1911, Pope Pius X gave his blessings for the formation of the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America, now better known as the Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers.\n\nDawah means to \"invite\" (in Arabic, literally \"calling\") to Islam, which is the second largest religion with 1.6 billion members. From the 7th century, it spread rapidly from the Arabian Peninsula to the rest of the world through the initial Muslim conquests and subsequently with traders and explorers after the death of Muhammad.\n\nInitially, the spread of Islam came through the Dawah efforts of Muhammad and his followers. After his death in 632 C.E., much of the expansion of the empire came through conquest such as that of North Africa and later Spain (Al-Andalus). The Islamic conquest of Persia put an end to the Sassanid Empire and spread the reach of Islam to as far east as Khorasan, which would later become the cradle of Islamic civilization during the Islamic Golden Age (622-1258 C.E.) and a stepping-stone towards the introduction of Islam to the Turkic tribes living in and bordering the area.\n\nThe missionary movement peaked during the Islamic Golden Age, with the expansion of foreign trade routes, primarily into the Indo-Pacific and as far south as the isle of Zanzibar as well as the South-Eastern shores of Africa.\n\nWith the coming of the Sufism tradition, Islamic missionary activities increased. Later, the Seljuk Turks' conquest of Anatolia made it easier for missionaries to go lands that formerly belonged to the Byzantine Empire. In the earlier stages of the Ottoman Empire, a Turkic form of Shamanism was still widely practiced in Anatolia, but soon lost ground to Sufism.\n\nDuring the Ottoman presence in the Balkans, missionary movements were taken up by people from aristocratic families hailing from the region, who had been educated in Constantinople or other major city within the Empire such as the famed madrassahs and kulliyes. Primarily, individuals were sent back to the place of their origin and were appointed important positions in the local governing body. This approach often resulted in the building of mosques and local kulliyes for future generations to benefit from, as well as spreading the teachings of Islam.\nThe spread of Islam towards Central and West Africa had until the early 19th century has been consistent but slow. Previously, the only connection was through Trans-Saharan trade routes. The Mali Empire, consisting predominantly of African and Berber tribes, stands as a strong example of the early Islamic conversion of the Sub-Saharan region. The gateways prominently expanded to include the aforementioned trade routes through the Eastern shores of the African continent. With the European colonization of Africa, missionaries were almost in competition with the European Christian missionaries operating in the colonies.\n\nThere is evidence of Arab Muslim traders entering Indonesia as early as the 8th century. Indonesia's early people were animists, Hindus, and Buddhists. However it was not until the end of the 13th century that the process of \"Islamization\" began to spread throughout the areas local communities and port towns. The spread, although at first introduced through Arab Muslim traders, continued to saturate through the Indonesian people as local rulers and royalty began to adopt the religion subsequently leading their subjects to mirror their conversion.\n\nRecently, Muslim groups have engaged in missionary work in Malawi. Much of this is performed by the African Muslim Agency based in Angola. The Kuwait-sponsored AMA has translated the Qur'an into Chichewa (Cinyanja), one of the official languages of Malawi, and has engaged in other missionary work in the country. All of the major cities in the country have mosques and there are several Islamic schools.\n\nSeveral South African, Kuwaiti, and other Muslim agencies are active in Mozambique, with one important one being the African Muslim Agency. The spread of Islam into West Africa, beginning with ancient Ghana in the 9th century, was mainly the result of the commercial activities of North African Muslims. The empires of both Mali and Songhai that followed ancient Ghana in the Western Sudan adopted the religion. Islam made its entry into the northern territories of modern Ghana around the 15th century. Mande speakers (who in Ghana are known as Wangara) traders and clerics carried the religion into the area. The northeastern sector of the country was also influenced by an influx of Hausa Muslim traders from the 16th century onwards\n\nIslamic influence first occurred in India in the early 7th century with the advent of Arab traders. Trade relations have existed between Arabia and the Indian subcontinent from ancient times. Even in the pre-Islamic era, Arab traders used to visit the Malabar region, which linked them with the ports of Southeast Asia. According to Historians Elliot and Dowson in their book \"The History of India as told by its own Historians\", the first ship bearing Muslim travelers was seen on the Indian coast as early as 630 C.E.. H. G. Rawlinson, in his book: \"Ancient and Medieval History of India\" claims the first Arab Muslims settled on the Indian coast in the last part of the 7th century. Shaykh Zainuddin Makhdum's \"Tuhfat al-Mujahidin\" also is a reliable work. This fact is corroborated, by J. Sturrock in his \"South Kanara and Madras Districts Manuals\", and also by Haridas Bhattacharya in \"Cultural Heritage of India Vol. IV\". It was with the advent of Islam that the Arabs became a prominent cultural force in the world. The Arab merchants and traders became the carriers of the new religion, and they propagated it wherever they went.\n\nIslam in Bulgaria can be traced back to the mid-ninth century when there were Islamic missionaries in Bulgaria, evidenced by a letter from Pope Nicholas to Boris of Bulgaria calling for the extirpation of Saracens.\n\nPioneer Muslim missionaries to the Kenyan interior were largely Tanganyikans, who coupled their missionary work with trade, along the centres began along the railway line such as Kibwezi, Makindu, and Nairobi.\n\nOutstanding among them was Maalim Mtondo Islam in Kenya, a Tanganyikan credited with being the first Muslim missionary to Nairobi. Reaching Nairobi at the close of the 19th century, he led a group of other Muslims, and enthusiastic missionaries from the coast to establish a \"Swahili village\" in present-day Pumwani. A small mosque was built to serve as a starting point and he began preaching Islam in earnest. He soon attracted several Kikuyus and Wakambas, who became his disciples.\n\nIn 1380, Karim ul' Makhdum the first Arabian Islamic missionary reached the Sulu Archipelago and Jolo in the Philippines and established Islam in the country. In 1390, the Minangkabau's Prince Rajah Baguinda and his followers preached Islam on the islands. The Sheik Karimal Makdum Mosque was the first mosque established in the Philippines on Simunul in Mindanao in the 14th century. Subsequent settlements by Arab missionaries traveling to Malaysia and Indonesia helped strengthen Islam in the Philippines and each settlement was governed by a Datu, Rajah, and a Sultan. Islamic provinces founded in the Philippines included the Sultanate of Maguindanao, Sultanate of Sulu, and other parts of the southern Philippines.\n\nModern missionary work in the United States has increased greatly in the last one hundred years, with much of the recent demographic growth driven by conversion. Up to one-third of American Muslims are African Americans who have converted to Islam during the last seventy years. Conversion to Islam in prisons, and in large urban areas has also contributed to Islam's growth over the years.\n\nAn estimated US$45 billion has been spent by the Saudi Arabian government financing mosques and Islamic schools in foreign countries. \"Ain al-Yaqeen\", a Saudi newspaper, reported in 2002 that Saudi funds may have contributed to building as many as 1,500 mosques and 2,000 other Islamic centers.\n\nMissionaries belonging to the Ahmadiyya thought of Islam often study at International Islamic seminaries and educational institutions, known as Jamia Ahmadiyya. Upon completion of their degrees, they are sent to various parts of the world including South America, Africa, North America, Europe, and the Far East as appointed by Mirza Masroor Ahmad, present head and Caliph of the worldwide Ahmadiyya Muslim community. Jamia students may be appointed by the Caliph either as Missionaries of the community (often called Murrabi, Imam, or Mawlana) or as Qadis or Muftis of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community with a specialisation in matters of fiqh (Islamic Jurisprudence). Some Jamia alumni have also become Islamic historians such as the late Dost Muhammad Shahid, former Official Historian of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community, with a specialisation in tarikh (Islamic historiography). Missionaries stay with their careers as appointed by the Caliph for the rest of their lives, as per their commitment to the community.\n\nDuring the Expedition of Al Raji in 625, the Islamic Prophet Muhammad sent some men as missionaries to various different tribes. Some men came to Muhammad and requested that Muhammad send instructors to teach them Islam, but the men were bribed by the two tribes of Khuzaymah who wanted revenge for the assassination of Khalid bin Sufyan (Chief of the Banu Lahyan tribe) by Muhammad's followers 8 Muslim Missionaires were killed in this expedition., another version says 10 Muslims were killed\n\nThen during the Expedition of Bir Maona in July 625 Muhammad sent some Missionaries at request of some men from the Banu Amir tribe, but the Muslims were again killed as revenge for the assassination of Khalid bin Sufyan by Muhammad's followers 70 Muslims were killed during this expedition\n\nDuring the Expedition of Khalid ibn al-Walid (Banu Jadhimah) in January 630, Muhammad sent Khalid ibn Walid to invite the Banu Jadhimah tribe to Islam. This is mentioned in the Sunni Hadith .\n\nDespite some Jewish missionary activity in the biblical times, contemporary Judaism states clearly that missionary activities are mostly taboo. Historically, various Judaic sects and movements have been consistent on avoiding proselytization to convert Gentiles.\n\nJewish religious groups encourage \"Outreach\" to Jews. The outreach, or \"kiruv\", movements encourage Jews to become more knowledgeable and observant of Jewish law. People who become more observant are known as \"baalei teshuva\". \"Outreach\" is done worldwide, by organizations such as Chabad Lubavitch, Aish Hatorah, Ohr Somayach, and Partners In Torah. There are also many such organizations in the United States. There has been a singular, isolated movement to convert Catholics to Judaism in Peru.\n\nMembers of the American Reform movement began a program to convert to Judaism the non-Jewish spouses of its intermarried members and non-Jews who have an interest in Judaism. Their rationale is that so many Jews were lost during the Holocaust that newcomers must be sought out and welcomed. This approach has been repudiated by Orthodox and Conservative Jews as unrealistic and posing a danger. They say that these efforts make Judaism seem an easy religion to join and observe when in reality being Jewish involves many difficulties and sacrifices.\n\nThe first Buddhist missionaries were called \"Dharma Bhanaks\", and some see a missionary charge in the symbolism behind the Buddhist wheel, which is said to travel all over the earth bringing Buddhism with it. The Emperor Ashoka was a significant early Buddhist missioner. In the 3rd century BCE, Dharmaraksita—among others—was sent out by emperor Ashoka to proselytize the Buddhist tradition through the Indian Maurya Empire, but also into the Mediterranean as far as Greece. Gradually, all India and the neighboring island of Ceylon were converted. Then Buddhism spread eastward and southeastward to the present lands of Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and Indonesia.\n\nBuddhism was spread among the Turkic people during the 2nd and 3rd centuries BCE into modern-day Pakistan, Kashmir, Afghanistan, eastern and coastal Iran, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikistan. It was also taken into China brought by Kasyapa Matanga in the 2nd century CE, Lokaksema and An Shigao translated Buddhist sutras into Chinese. Dharmarakṣa was one of the greatest translators of Mahayana Buddhist scriptures into Chinese. Dharmaraksa came to the Chinese capital of Luoyang in 266 CE, where he made the first known translations of the Lotus Sutra and the Dasabhumika Sutra, which were to become some of the classic texts of Chinese Mahayana Buddhism. Altogether, Dharmaraksa translated around 154 Hīnayāna and Mahāyāna \"sutras\", representing most of the important texts of Buddhism available in the Western Regions. His proselytizing is said to have converted many to Buddhism in China, and made Chang'an, present-day Xi'an, a major center of Buddhism. Buddhism expanded rapidly, especially among the common people, and by 381 most of the people of northwest China were Buddhist. Winning converts also among the rulers and scholars, by the end of the T'ang Dynasty Buddhism was found everywhere in China.\n\nMarananta brought Buddhism to the Korean Peninsula in the 4th century. Seong of Baekje, known as a great patron of Buddhism in Korea, built many temples and welcomed priests bringing Buddhist texts directly from India. In 528, Baekje officially adopted Buddhism as its state religion. He sent tribute missions to Liang in 534 and 541, on the second occasion requesting artisans as well as various Buddhist works and a teacher. According to Chinese records, all these requests were granted. A subsequent mission was sent in 549, only to find the Liang capital in the hands of the rebel Hou Jing, who threw them in prison for lamenting the fall of the capital. He is credited with having sent a mission in 538 to Japan that brought an image of Shakyamuni and several sutras to the Japanese court. This has traditionally been considered the official introduction of Buddhism to Japan. An account of this is given in \"Gangōji Garan Engi\". First supported by the Soga clan, Buddhism rose over the objections of the pro-Shinto Mononobe and Buddhism entrenched itself in Japan with the conversion of Prince Shotoku Taishi. When in 710 Emperor Shomu established a new capital at Nara modeled after the capital of China, Buddhism received official support and began to flourish.\n\nPadmasambhava, The Lotus Born, was a sage guru from Oḍḍiyāna who is said to have transmitted Vajrayana Buddhism to Bhutan and Tibet and neighbouring countries in the 8th century.\n\nThe use of missions, councils, and monastic institutions influenced the emergence of Christian missions and organizations, which developed similar structures in places that were formerly Buddhist missions.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries, Western intellectuals such as Schopenhauer, Henry David Thoreau, Max Müller, and esoteric societies such as the Theosophical Society of H.P. Blavatsky and the Buddhist Society, London spread interest in Buddhism. Writers such as Hermann Hesse and Jack Kerouac, in the West, and the hippie generation of the late 1960s and early 1970s led to a re-discovery of Buddhism. During the 20th and 21st centuries Buddhism has again been propagated by missionaries into the West such as the Dalai Lama and monks including Lama Surya Das (Tibetan Buddhism). Tibetan Buddhism has been significantly active and successful in the West since the Chinese takeover of Tibet in 1959. Today Buddhists make a decent proportion of several countries in the West such as New Zealand, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, France, and the United States.\n\nIn Canada, the immense popularity and goodwill ushered in by Tibet's Dalai Lama (who has been made honorary Canadian citizen) put Buddhism in a favourable light in the country. Many non-Asian Canadians embraced Buddhism in various traditions and some have become leaders in their respective sanghas.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the French Buddhist Union (UBF, founded in 1986) estimated that there are 600,000 to 650,000 Buddhists in France, with 150,000 French converts among them. In 1999, sociologist Frédéric Lenoir estimated there are 10,000 converts and up to 5 million \"sympathizers\", although other researchers have questioned these numbers.\n\nTaisen Deshimaru was a Japanese Zen Buddhist who founded numerous zendos in France. Thich Nhat Hanh, a Nobel Peace Prize-nominated, Vietnamese-born Zen Buddhist, founded the Unified Buddhist Church (Eglise Bouddhique Unifiée) in France in 1969. Plum Village, a monastery and retreat center in the Dordogne in southern France, is his residence and the headquarters of his international sangha.\n\nIn 1968 Leo Boer and Wener van de Wetering founded a Zen group, and through two books made Zen popular in the Netherlands. The guidance of the group was taken over by Erik Bruijn, who is still in charge of a flourishing community. The largest Zen group now is the Kanzeon Sangha, led by Nico Tydeman under the supervision of the American Zen master Dennis Genpo Merzel, Roshi, a former student of Maezumi Roshi in Los Angeles. This group has a relatively large centre where a teacher and some students live permanently. Many other groups are also represented in the Netherlands, like the Order of Buddhist Contemplatives in Apeldoorn, the Thich Nhat Hanh Order of Interbeing and the International Zen Institute Noorderpoort monastery/retreat centre in Drenthe, led by Jiun Hogen Roshi.\n\nPerhaps the most widely visible Buddhist leader in the world is Tenzin Gyatso, the current Dalai Lama, who first visited the United States in 1979. As the exiled political leader of Tibet, he has become a popular cause célèbre. His early life was depicted in Hollywood films such as \"Kundun\" and \"Seven Years in Tibet\". He has attracted celebrity religious followers such as Richard Gere and Adam Yauch. The first Western-born Tibetan Buddhist monk was Robert A. F. Thurman, now an academic supporter of the Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama maintains a North American headquarters at Namgyal Monastery in Ithaca, New York.\n\nLewis M. Hopfe in his \"Religions of the World\" suggested that \"Buddhism is perhaps on the verge of another great missionary outreach\" (1987:170).\n\nHinduism was introduced into Java by travelers from India in ancient times. When the early Javanese princes accepted Hinduism, they did not give up all of their early animistic beliefs—they simply combined the new ideas with them. Several centuries ago, many Hindus left Java for Bali rather than convert to Islam. Hinduism has survived in Bali ever since. Dang Hyang Nirartha was responsible for facilitating a refashioning of Balinese Hinduism. He was an important promoter of the idea of moksha in Indonesia. He founded the Shaivite priesthood that is now ubiquitous in Bali, and is now regarded as the ancestor of all Shaivite pandits.\n\nShantidas Adhikari was a Hindu preacher from Sylhet who converted King Pamheiba of Manipur to Hinduism in 1717.\n\nHistorically, Hinduism has only recently had a large influence in western countries such as the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and Canada. Since the 1960s, many westerners attracted by the world view presented in Asian religious systems have converted to Hinduism. Canada is no exception. Many native-born Canadians of various ethnicities have converted during the last 50 years through the actions of the Ramakrishna Mission, ISKCON, Arya Samaj and other missionary organizations as well as due to the visits and guidance of Indian gurus such as Guru Maharaj, Sai Baba, and Rajneesh. The International Society for Krishna Consciousness has a presence in New Zealand, running temples in Auckland, Hamilton, Wellington and Christchurch.\n\nParamahansa Yogananda, an Indian yogi and guru, introduced many westerners to the teachings of meditation and Kriya Yoga through his book, \"Autobiography of a Yogi\".\n\nSwami Vivekananda, the founder of the Ramakrishna Mission is one of the greatest Hindu missionaries to the West.\n\nSikhs have emigrated to countries all over the world, especially to English-speaking and East Asian nations. In doing so they have retained, to a high degree, their distinctive cultural and religious identity. Sikhs are not ubiquitous worldwide in the way that adherents of larger world religions are, and they remain primarily an ethnic religion. However, they can be found in many international cities and have become an especially strong religious presence in the United Kingdom and Canada.\n\nOne morning, when he was twenty-eight, Guru Nanak Dev went as usual down to the river to bathe and meditate. It was said that he was gone for three days. When he reappeared, it is said he was \"filled with the spirit of God\". His first words after his re-emergence were: \"there is no Hindu, there is no Muslim\". With this secular principle he began his missionary work. He made four distinct major journeys, in the four different directions, which are called Udasis, spanning many thousands of kilometres, preaching the message of God.\n\nCurrently there are Gurdwaras in over 50 countries.\n\nOf missionary organizations, the most famous is probably The Sikh Missionary Society UK. The Aim of the Sikh Missionary Society is the \"Advancement of the Sikh faith in the U.K and abroad\", engages in various activities:\n\n\nThere have been several Sikh missionaries:\n\n\nSikhs have emigrated to many countries of the world since Indian independence in 1947. Sikh communities exist in Britain, East Africa, Canada, the United States, Malaysia, and most European countries.\n\nTenrikyo conducts missionary work in approximately forty countries. Its first missionary was a woman named, Kokan, who worked on the streets of Osaka. In 2003, it operated approximately twenty thousand mission stations worldwide.\n\nAccording to Jaina tradition, Mahavira's following had swelled to 14,000 monks and 36,000 nuns by the time of his death in 527 BC.\nFor some two centuries the Jains remained a small community of monks and followers. However, in the 4th century BCE, they gained strength and spread from Bihar to Orissa, then so South India and westwards to Gujarat and the Punjab, where Jain communities became firmly established, particularly among the mercantile classes. The period of the Mauryan Dynasty to the 12th century was the period of Jainism's greatest growth and influence. Thereafter, the Jainas in the South and Central regions lost ground in face of rising Hindu devotional movements. Jainism retreated to the West and Northwest, which have remained its stronghold to the present.\n\nEmperor Samprati is regarded as the \"Jain Ashoka\" for his patronage and efforts to spreading Jainism in east India. Samprati, according to Jain historians, is considered more powerful and famous than Ashoka himself. Samprati built thousands of Jain Temples in India, many of which remain in use, such as the Jain temples at Viramgam and Palitana (Gujarat), Agar Malwa (Ujjain). Within three and a half years, he got one hundred and twenty-five thousand new temples built, thirty-six thousand repaired, twelve and a half million murtis, holy statues, consecrated and ninety-five thousand metal murtis prepared. Samprati is said to have erected Jain temples throughout his empire. He founded Jain monasteries even in non-Aryan territory, and almost all ancient Jain temples or monuments of unknown origin are popularly attributed to him. It may be noted that all the Jain monuments of Rajasthan and Gujarat, with unknown builders are also attributed to Emperor Samprati.\n\nVirachand Gandhi (1864–1901) from Mahuva represented Jains at the first Parliament of the World's Religions in Chicago in 1893 and won a silver medal. Gandhi was most likely the first Jain and the first Gujarati to travel to the United States, and his statue still stands at the Jain temple in Chicago. In his time he was a world-famous personality.\nGandhi represented Jains in Chicago because the Great Jain Saint Param Pujya Acharya Vijayanandsuri, also known as Acharya Atmaram, was invited to represent the Jain religion at the first World Parliament of Religions. As Jain monks do not travel overseas, he recommended the bright young scholar Virchand Gandhi to be the emissary for the religion. Today there are 100,000 Jains in the United States.\n\nThere are also tens of thousands of Jains located in the UK and Canada.\n\nĀnanda Mārga, organizationally known as Ānanda Mārga Pracaraka Samgha (AMPS), meaning the \"samgha\" (organization) for the propagation of the \"marga\" (path) of \"ananda\" (bliss), is a social and spiritual movement founded in Jamalpur, Bihar, India, in 1955 by Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar (1921–1990), also known by his spiritual name, Shrii Shrii Ánandamúrti. Ananda Marga counts hundreds of missions around the world through which its members carry out various forms of selfless service on Relief. (The social welfare and development organization under AMPS is Ananda Marga Universal Relief Team, or AMURT.) Education and women's welfare The service activities of this section founded in 1963 are focused on:\n\nContact of zealous missionaries with the uncontacted tribes has made some tribes and their culture extinct due to several factors, such as extinction from infections and even simple diseases such flu, Great Andamanese are exampleof such extinction. The Europeans contact with indigenous since 1492 has killed 100 million from the imported diseases to which tribes had no immunity. Survival International, a human rights organisation formed in 1969 which campaigns for the rights of indigenous tribal peoples and uncontacted peoples, advocates the authorities to enforce their protection for the safety of both the tribe and outsiders.\n\nCertain issues have brought criticism to missionary activity. This has included concerns that missionaries have a perceived lack of respect for other cultures. Potential destruction of social structure among the converts has also been a concern. The Akha people of South East Asia are an example of those who believe that missionaries are only converting others for personal gain. The Akha people have complained the missionaries are more worried about building a church than building a clinic in a village that is very unhealthy. Many traditional values of the Akha have been lost as a result of these conversions. The Huaorani people of Amazonian Ecuador have had a well-documented mixed relation with Evangelical Christian missionaries and the contacts they brought to their communities, criticized by outsiders.\n\nA 2012 study by political scientist Robert Woodberry, focusing on Protestant missionaries, found that they have often left a very positive societal impact in the areas where they worked. \"In cross-national statistical analysis Protestant missions are significantly and robustly associated with higher levels of printing, education, economic development, organizational civil society, protection of private property, and rule of law and with lower levels of corruption\".\n\nA 2017 study found that areas of colonial Mexico that had Mendicant missions have higher rates of literacy and educational attainment today than regions that did not have missions. Areas that had Jesuit missions are today indistinct from the areas that had no missions. The study also found that \"the share of Catholics is higher in regions where Catholic missions of any kind were a historical present.\"\n\nA 2016 study found that regions in Sub-Saharan Africa that Protestant missionaries brought printing presses to are today \"associated with higher newspaper readership, trust, education, and political participation.\"\n\nMissionaries have also made significant contributions to linguistics and the description and documentation of many languages. \"Many languages today exist only in missionary records. More than anywhere else, our knowledge of the native languages in South America has been the product of missionary activity… Without missionary documentation the reclamation [of several languages] would have been completely impossible\" \"A satisfactory history of linguistics cannot be written before the impressive contribution of missionaries is recognised.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32059439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32059439", "title": "Nakhleh", "text": "Nakhleh\n\nNakhleh () is a mixed Sunni Muslim and Maronite Christian city in the Koura District of Lebanon.it's located 340 metres above sea level and has an area of 8 square kilometres,there are 17000 residents in nakhleh right now\n\n"}
{"id": "13935593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13935593", "title": "Ngarrabullgan", "text": "Ngarrabullgan\n\nNgarrabullgan (also \"Njrrabulgan\", \"Nurrabullgan\", \"Ngarrabullgin\", or \"Nguddaboolgan\"), officially named Mount Mulligan by the State, is a large tabletop mountain (18 km by 6.5 km) located 100 kilometres west of Cairns in the north of Queensland (Australia).\n\nThe tabletop mountain is a monolith bounded by high cliffs (or escarpments) that fall 200 to 400 m to the surrounding Hodgkinson Basin, making it an impressive natural monument which is regarded by the local Djungan Aboriginal peoples to be a sacred 'Dreaming' place (see Dreamtime), and features in the mythological legends and beliefs of other Aboriginal groups for hundreds of kilometres around.\n\nOn the tabletop itself are found the two oldest-known Aboriginal sites in Queensland: Nonda Rock and Ngarrabullgan Cave. Here Aboriginal cultural deposits have been radiocarbon dated, and dated by optically stimulated luminescence (OSL), back to 40,000+ years ago.\n\nOther ancient Aboriginal rockshelter sites on the mountain have been dated to the end of the last Ice Age, and, together, the many 'archaeological' caves and rockshelters found in and around Ngarrabullgan constitutes Queensland's greatest density of known sites dating back more than 4,000 years BP.\n\nThe combination of impressive natural feature, Aboriginal beliefs and mythologies, and archaeological sites of such antiquity make Ngarrabullgan the oldest known and dated cultural landscape in Queensland, and a place of state, national and international interest and scientific significance.\n\nThe mountain was originally formed in a narrow faulted rift (running in a general south-east to north-west direction) within the deformed and folded metamorphic rock (arenite) of the Hodgkinson Basin. Successive layers of sediment were deposited into this rift filling it first with Permian coal (at its base), then Permian conglomerates, with Triassic sandstones above. With tectonic uplift the original arenite surrounding the deposits eroded away leaving Ngarrabullgan as a free-standing conglomerate and sandstone massif.\n\nThe vegetation on the Ngarrabullgan tabletop (plateau) has been described as wet sclerophyll forests, mainly of a bloodwood species of Eucalyptus, with a well-developed understory. These tabletop forests contrast, noticeably, with the open sclerophyll woodland of the surrounding hills and plains below.\n\nStudies of both Ngarrabullgan's eucalypt forests and its surrounding woodlands identified 13 distinct land units supporting:\n\nFlora: 10 plant species that are considered either rare or threatened, including 8 plant species that are found nowhere else.\n\nFauna: 8 frog species, 55 reptile species, 99 bird species and 20 mammal species; 22 of which are species of special conservation significance under either the Queensland or Australian biodiversity conservation statutory regimes.\n\nThe Australian Heritage Commission included Ngarrabullgan on its register of the National Estate on 24 June 1997, describing it as a place that holds:\n\n(a) important evidence enhancing the Australian communities' knowledge of Aboriginal occupation of Pleistocene into the Holocene;\n\n(b) large diversity of well-preserved (intact) archaeological sites and features, some of which are directly associated with locally known initiation sites and places still sacred to the local Aboriginal peoples (both on top of the mountain and around the mountain's base);\n\n(c) strong potential to yield new and important information about Aboriginal occupation, use, beliefs and lifestyles from the Pleistocene down to the present (especially as new archaeological techniques are developed and combined with further, ongoing research and study);\n\n(d) excellent examples of the rock art and resource use of those Aboriginal peoples who have occupied and used the area for many generations and still, to this day, view the mountain as a major spiritual site at the heart of their country;\n\n(e) considerable aesthetic impact combining an impressive physical presence as a large natural monument, together with natural and cultural features valuable to the Djungan peoples, other Aboriginal peoples, the people of Mareeba Shire, the North Queensland region more generally, and Australia as a whole.\n\nFor similar reasons the Queensland Government formally registered Ngarrabullgan as \"The Mount Mulligan Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Area\" under its Aboriginal heritage legislation (\"Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Act\" 2006 (Qld)) in 2006.\n\nPrior to gold rushes and the associated occupation of the Hodgkinson River area, Ngarrabullgin was a place of some spiritual and ceremonial significance to the Djungan Aboriginal peoples\n\nIon Idriess in his far north Queensland gold prospecting story, wrote about Ngarrabullgan as follows:\n\n\"Farther out in those Chillagoe lands an outstanding landmark on the Hodgkinson is a massive wall of rock overlooking 'Mulligan's goldfield'. A meeting-place of the aborigines from time immemorial, it has seen the passing of a thousand tribes.\"\n\nDuring and following the Hodgkinson River gold rush of 1876, the local Djungan population was decimated and the survivors were drawn to the fringes of mining settlements formed at Thornborough and Mount Mulligan. The Djungan peoples tell of how their grandparents had to flee from police and settlers, and by climbing Ngarrabullgan's escarpments they could sometimes escape the horses (some Djungan remember a cave on the south of the mountain where many were massacred and hidden).\n\nIt was also during these times that townspeople within the Hodgkinson goldfields fearful of Aborigines first experimented with a policy of 'pacification'. Local shop owner, John Byrnes, in 1882 brought a small group of Djungan peoples into town, feeding them meat and potatoes, and, soon, there were 150 Aborigines living in a camp just 8 km from Ngarrabullgan.\n\nBy 1921 the Hodgkinson gold fields had declined, and a coal mine at Mount Mulligan had burrowed its way into the side of Ngarrabullgan, much to the fear of the Djungan Aboriginal peoples. On 19 September 1921 there was a huge explosion killing 75 people in what turned out to be Queensland's worst mining disaster (see also Mount Mulligan mine disaster). To the Djungan people this was retribution for disturbing the sacred mountain in which dwelt a 'white horse' and the spirit Eekoo.\n\nBy 1990 the coal mine had long been closed (since 1957); the mining towns had all broken down and been deserted; and the cattle-properties were profitless, run down with rubber-vine, feral pigs and brumbies. Ngarrabullgan, however, still stood to become the focus of a Djungan Aboriginal people's 'cultural renaissance'.\n\nQueensland Tourist and Travel Corporation (QTTC) staff, followed by Sir Frank Moore (QTTC Chairman) and the Queensland Minister for Tourism, visited Ngarrabullgan and Kondoparinga Station (the pastoral property within which Ngarrabullgan sits)to see if a small tourist resort should be built, and tourist enterprise developed within the vicinity of Ngarrabullgan, offering tourists an 'experience' of the mountain and surrounding heritage.\n\nQueensland Tourist and Travel Corporation (QTTC) had prepared and costed the feasibility of developing the tourism potential of Ngarrabullgan, and, by this time there was some genuine commercial interest in purchasing Kondoparinga property and Ngarrabullgan to enable a corporation operating out of Port Douglas to offer tourists and visitors an exciting, authentic 'outback Queensland' experience. .\n\nThe person occupying Kondoparinga pastoral property and joint owner of the property (Mr Reg Adams) approached people then living in Mareeba expressing a strong wish to see Ngarrabullgan sold to the Djungan peoples who had enjoyed free access to his property for many years. The other owner of the property, Skyfleet, wished to see the property sold to the Japanese owned consortium who were interested in developing the property's identified tourism potential.:\n\n27 July: over 150 Djungan people had travelled from Cairns, Yarrabah, Innisfail, Townsville, Chillagoe and Mareeba, to re-unite and form the Kuku Djungan Aboriginal Corporation; to raise the pan-Australian Aboriginal flag; and to resolve to regain ownership of Ngarrabullgan.\n\nAugust: the Australian Government (i.e. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission) approved the purchase of Kondoparinga property, and Ngarrabullgan, for the Djungan people.\n\nDecember: Kondoparinga had been purchased, and the Djungan peoples had regained ownership of Ngarrabullgan. Queensland Government's Department of Environment had sought to excise Ngarrabullgan from the property at the time of purchase, but, at the last moment, a binding agreement was negotiated and agreed to see Ngrrabullgan remain part of the property and later declared a National Park to be managed by a majority Djungan board of management\n\nNovember:\nThe Djungan people:\n\n\nPublished archaeological sites (listed in rough geographical order, generally running from north to south).:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43243560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43243560", "title": "Nirmalananda Swamiji", "text": "Nirmalananda Swamiji\n\nNirmalanandanatha Swamiji is the head of Adichunchanagiri Math.\nNirmalanandanatha Swamiji was born as Nagraja on 20 July 1969, son of Shri Narsegowda and Smt Nanjamma, in a village called Cheernahalli in Gubbi taluk of Tumkur district in a Kannada Vokkaliga (ಒಕ್ಕಲಿಗ) Community . After doing his Diploma at Government Polytechnic College (Tumkur), he did BE in civil engineering at National Institute of Engineering Mysuru and M.Tech in structural engineering at Indian Institute of Technology Madras. He was selected as a scientist at Central Water and Power Research Station Poona. He instead volunteered to teach at a blind school in Ramanagara district. In 1998 he renounced worldly life and became a Swamiji. Balagangadharanatha Swamiji appointed him as the head of the Adichunchanagiri Shakhe (branch) Matha at Chikkaballapura. \n\nWhen Balagangadharanatha Swamiji passed away on 13 January 2013, Nirmalanandanatha Swamiji succeeded him as head of Adichunchanagiri Matha.\n"}
{"id": "2539037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2539037", "title": "Pak Ou Caves", "text": "Pak Ou Caves\n\nNear Pak Ou (mouth of the Ou river) the Tham Ting (lower cave) and the Tham Theung (upper cave) are caves overlooking the Mekong River, 25 km to the north of Luang Prabang, Laos. They are a group of two caves on the west side of the Mekong river, about two hours upstream from the centre of Luang Prabang, and have become well known by tourists. \n\nThe caves are noted for their miniature Buddha sculptures. Hundreds of very small and mostly damaged wooden Buddhist figures are laid out over the wall shelves. They take many different positions, including meditation, teaching, peace, rain, and reclining (nirvana).\n\n"}
{"id": "42896947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42896947", "title": "Panthic Party", "text": "Panthic Party\n\nThe Panthic Party was a political party in India in the 1940s that focused on the Sikhs. Sardar Swaran Singh and Baldev Singh were prominent members of this party, both of which later joined Indian National Congress and rose to the status of Cabinet Minister in the Union Government of India.\n"}
{"id": "49661631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49661631", "title": "Pierrette Bloch", "text": "Pierrette Bloch\n\nPierrette Bloch (June 16, 1928 – July 7, 2017) was a Paris-born Swiss painter and textile artist.\n\nPierrette Bloch was born on June 16, 1928 in Paris. In 1939, Bloch and her parents left France for Switzerland to escape the war. At the age of 15, she began living on her own in a hotel, which she says helped foster very early on a complete sense of independence and autonomy. She began her professional artistic training at the end of the 1940s, taking courses in the plastic arts in Paris.\n\nBloch began exhibiting her works in Paris and the United States in the 1950s. The ensemble of her works have their roots in the use of \"poor\" materials such as ink, paper, mesh, and horsehair. The last of these, horsehair, began appearing in her work in the 1970s, with her first sculpture using horsehair created in 1979, and have become one of the key symbols of her work. The corpus of her work thus spans mediums, including drawings, collages and three-dimensional pieces, and falls into the category of postwar abstraction. Her work has been exhibited in Europe, Asia, and the Americas.\n\nA monograph on Pierrette Bloch was published in November 2013 by Musée Jenisch.\n\nBloch died on July 7, 2017 in Paris at the age of 89.\n\n\n\n\n« J’entreprends un long voyage sur une feuille, je m’enveloppe dans ce parcours ; ce n’est plus une surface, mais une aventure dans le temps. Le format n’existe plus. » (\"I undertake a long voyage on a sheet of paper, I envelop myself in the journey; it's no longer a surface, but an adventure in time. The format of the work ceases to exist.\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13774844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13774844", "title": "Religious behaviour", "text": "Religious behaviour\n\nReligious behaviours are behaviours motivated by religious beliefs. Religious actions are also called 'ritual' and religious avoidances are called taboos or ritual prohibitions.\n\nThe two best known religious actions are prayer and sacrifice. The most general religious action is prayer. It can be done quietly by a person all alone, but people can also pray in groups using songs. Sacrifice is also a widely spread religious action. Prayer and sacrifice often form the basis of other, more complicated religious actions like pilgrimage, processions, or consulting an oracle. Many rituals are connected to a certain purpose, like initiation, ritual purification and preparation for an important happening or task. Among these are also the so-called rituals of transition, which occur at important moments of the human life cycle, like birth, adulthood/marriage, sickness and death. A special religious action is spirit possession and religious ecstasy. Religious specialists, such as priests, vicars, rabbis, imams and pandits are involved in many religious actions.\n\nA religious avoidance is when a person desists from something or from some action for religious reasons. It can be food or drink that one does not touch because of one's religion for some time (fast). This abstinence can also be for a longer time. Some people do not have sex (celibacy). Or one avoids contact with blood, or dead animals. Well known examples are: Jews and Muslims do not eat pork; the celibacy of Catholic priests; the purity rules of Hinduism and Judaism.\n\nThese avoidances, or 'taboos', are often about food and drink.\n\nReligious avoidances are often not easily recognisable as (part of) religious behaviour. When asked, the believers often do not motivate this kind of behaviour explicitly as religious but say the avoidance for health reasons, ethical reasons, or because it is hygienic.\n\nReligious behaviour is seldom studied for itself. When it is given attention at all, it is usually studied as an illustration of the religious images, like in comparative religion and cultural anthropology, or as part of the study of man in the social sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52399930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52399930", "title": "Sandung", "text": "Sandung\n\nSandung or sandong is the ossuary of the Dayak people of South and Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. The sandung is an integral part of the Tiwah ceremony of the Ngaju people, which is basically a secondary burial ritual where the bones of the deceased are taken from the cemeteries, purified and finally placed in a sandung.\n\nThe sandung is a wooden ossuary shaped like a small house, with ornate roofs, windows, doors, and miniature stairs. Ideally a sandung is made of ironwood, although today lighter wood of any kind of trees can also be used. The house-shaped ossuary will actually be brought by the deceased to the paradise to become their house. Sandungs are painted in bright colors and decorated with carvings representing various religious symbols and patterns. The base of the sandung container is usually decorated with foliage pattern representing the mythical tree of life. Figures of man and woman painted on both side of the miniature door is said to represent a couple which would marry and produce children who will assist their parents in guarding the repository. Other figures painted on the walls of the sandung represents different Ngaju deities from the Kaharingan folk religion. Painting or carving of moon and stars is painted on the downriver side of the sandung, while painting of the sun is depicted on the upriver side; these astronomical landmarks are related with the journey that must be passed by the souls on their way to the Kaharingan paradise, the Lewa Liau. The roof of a sandung is usually decorated with a type of wild chicken. This bird, known as the \"piak liau\", will become a possession for the deceased in the afterlife.\n\nSome sandung are built to contain the bones of a single individual, while others for fifty or more persons. In general, the Dayak people of the Kahayan region prefers large sandung capable of storing remains of many kin, assuring that they will form another household in the afterlife. The Dayak of the Katingan region prefer smaller sandung. A sandung for an individual person (\"sandung tunggal\", \"single sandung\") is usually build for persons who had died a \"bad\" or unnatural death, or other reasons which deemed the person remains is inappropriate to be interred with the bones of other family members.\n\nA sandung is normally set high above poles, although there are some sandung that is simply placed on ground (known as \"sandung munduk\"). Some sandung reach the height of while others at the height of only . The poles supporting the sandung are often carved with ferocious faces, bulging eyes and protruding tongues. This figure represents the animate essence of the sandung (\"ganan sandung\") which protects the inhabitant of the sandung from potential threats.\n\nThere are many varieties and shapes of sandung, among those discovered in the villages of Ngaju people along the Kahayan River include:\n\nUnlike graves which is usually located some distance downriver away from the village, sandungs are located in the center of villages. Some sandungs are hundreds years old. A collection of sandungs are kept in the Balanga Museum, Palangkaraya.\n\nThe sandung is an integral part of the Tiwah dead festival. The Tiwah is the most important festival of the Ngaju people, where the soul of the dead is ensured safe journey to paradise. During the Tiwah ceremony, the bones of the dead are dug from the cemetery and carried back to the village. The bones will be purified, cleaned and anointed with oil and gold dust by their closest kin e.g. their children or their grandchildren. After the purification, the bones are carefully wrapped in cloth and placed in the sandung.\n\nSince the mid-1960s, the increasing availability of cements means that cement ossuaries are becoming more popular. These are usually of \"sandung munduk\" type, the type of sandung which stands on ground. Fragments of tile and mirror are pressed into the drying cement to decorate it. As more Dayak people adopt Christianity or Islam, sandung is becoming more rare. Many ancient sandung and sapundu (mortuary pole) are stolen because of its historic value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "596325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596325", "title": "Separation of church and state in the United States", "text": "Separation of church and state in the United States\n\n\"Separation of church and state\" is paraphrased from Thomas Jefferson and used by others in expressing an understanding of the intent and function of the Establishment Clause and Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution which reads: \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...\"\n\nThe phrase \"separation between church & state\" is generally traced to a by Thomas Jefferson, addressed to the Danbury Baptist Association in Connecticut, and published in a Massachusetts newspaper. Jefferson wrote,\n\nSome argue that Jefferson echoes the language of the founder of the first Baptist church in America, Roger Williams who, in 1644, wrote of\n\nHowever, when considered in context, the relationship appears questionable.\n\nArticle Six of the United States Constitution also specifies that \"no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.\"\n\nJefferson's metaphor of a wall of separation has been cited repeatedly by the U.S. Supreme Court. In \"Reynolds v. United States\" (1879) the Court wrote that Jefferson's comments \"may be accepted almost as an authoritative declaration of the scope and effect of the [First] Amendment.\" In \"Everson v. Board of Education\" (1947), Justice Hugo Black wrote: \"In the words of Thomas Jefferson, the clause against establishment of religion by law was intended to erect a wall of separation between church and state.\"\n\nIn contrast to separationism, the Supreme Court in \"Zorach v. Clauson\" upheld accommodationism, holding that the nation's \"institutions presuppose a Supreme Being\" and that government recognition of God does not constitute the establishment of a state church as the Constitution's authors intended to prohibit. As such, the Court has not always interpreted the constitutional principle as absolute, and the proper extent of separation between government and religion in the U.S. remains an ongoing subject of impassioned debate.\n\nMany early immigrant groups traveled to America to worship freely, particularly after the English Civil War and religious conflict in France and Germany. They included nonconformists like the Puritans, who were Protestant Christians fleeing religious persecution from the Anglican King of England. Despite a common background, the groups' views on religious toleration were mixed. While some such as Roger Williams of Rhode Island and William Penn of Pennsylvania ensured the protection of religious minorities within their colonies, others like the Plymouth Colony and Massachusetts Bay Colony had established churches. The Dutch colony of New Netherland established the Dutch Reformed Church and outlawed all other worship, though enforcement was sparse. Religious conformity was desired partly for financial reasons: the established Church was responsible for poor relief, putting dissenting churches at a significant disadvantage. \n\n\n\n\nIn several colonies, the establishment ceased to exist in practice at the Revolution, about 1776; this is the date of permanent legal abolition.\nin 1789 the Georgia Constitution was amended as follows:\n\"Article IV. Section 10. No person within this state shall, upon any pretense, be deprived of the inestimable privilege of worshipping God in any manner agreeable to his own conscience, nor be compelled to attend any place of worship contrary to his own faith and judgment; nor shall he ever be obliged to pay tithes, taxes, or any other rate, for the building or repairing any place of worship, or for the maintenance of any minister or ministry, contrary to what he believes to be right, or hath voluntarily engaged to do. No one religious society shall ever be established in this state, in preference to another; nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of any civil right merely on account of his religious principles.\"\nFrom 1780 Massachusetts had a system which required every man to belong to a church, and permitted each church to tax its members, but forbade any law requiring that it be of any particular denomination. This was objected to, as in practice establishing the Congregational Church, the majority denomination, and was abolished in 1833.\nUntil 1877 the New Hampshire Constitution required members of the State legislature to be of the Protestant religion.\nThe North Carolina Constitution of 1776 disestablished the Anglican church, but until 1835 the NC Constitution allowed only Protestants to hold public office. From 1835 to 1876 it allowed only Christians (including Catholics) to hold public office. Article VI, Section 8 of the current NC Constitution forbids only atheists from holding public office. Such clauses were held by the United States Supreme Court to be unenforceable in the 1961 case of Torcaso v. Watkins, when the court ruled unanimously that such clauses constituted a religious test incompatible with First and Fourteenth Amendment protections.\nReligious tolerance for Catholics with an established Church of England was policy in the former Spanish Colonies of East and West Florida while under British rule.\nIn Treaty of Paris (1783), which ended the American Revolutionary War, the British ceded both East and West Florida back to Spain (see Spanish Florida).\nTithes for the support of the Anglican Church in Virginia were suspended in 1776, and never restored. 1786 is the date of the Virginia Statute of Religious Freedom, which prohibited any coercion to support any religious body.\n\nThe Library of Congress states that:\nThe Flushing Remonstrance shows support for separation of church and state as early as the mid-17th century, stating their opposition to religious persecution of any sort: \"The law of love, peace and liberty in the states extending to Jews, Turks and Egyptians, as they are considered sons of Adam, which is the glory of the outward state of Holland, so love, peace and liberty, extending to all in Christ Jesus, condemns hatred, war and bondage.\" The document was signed December 27, 1657 by a group of English citizens in America who were affronted by persecution of Quakers and the religious policies of the Governor of New Netherland, Peter Stuyvesant. Stuyvesant had formally banned all religions other than the Dutch Reformed Church from being practiced in the colony, in accordance with the laws of the Dutch Republic. The signers indicated their \"desire therefore in this case not to judge lest we be judged, neither to condemn least we be condemned, but rather let every man stand or fall to his own Master.\" Stuyvesant fined the petitioners and threw them in prison until they recanted. However, John Bowne allowed the Quakers to meet in his home. Bowne was arrested, jailed, and sent to the Netherlands for trial; the Dutch court exonerated Bowne.\n\nNew York Historical Society President and Columbia University Professor of History Kenneth T. Jackson describes the Flushing Remonstrance as \"the first thing that we have in writing in the United States where a group of citizens attests on paper and over their signature the right of the people to follow their own conscience with regard to God - and the inability of government, or the illegality of government, to interfere with that.\"\n\nGiven the wide diversity of opinion on Christian theological matters in the newly independent American States, the Constitutional Convention believed a government sanctioned (established) religion would disrupt rather than bind the newly formed union together. George Washington wrote a letter in 1790 to the country's first Jewish congregation, the Touro Synagogue in Newport, Rhode Island to state:\n\nAllowing rights and immunities of citizenship. It is now no more that toleration is spoken of, as if it were by the indulgence of one class of people, that another enjoyed the exercise of their inherent natural rights. For happily the Government of the United States, which gives to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance requires only that they who live under its protection should demean themselves as good citizens, in giving it on all occasions their effectual support.\n\nThere were also opponents to the support of any established church even at the state level. In 1773, Isaac Backus, a prominent Baptist minister in New England, wrote against a state-sanctioned religion, saying: \"Now who can hear Christ declare, that his kingdom is, not of this world, and yet believe that this blending of church and state together can be pleasing to him?\" He also observed that when \"church and state are separate, the effects are happy, and they do not at all interfere with each other: but where they have been confounded together, no tongue nor pen can fully describe the mischiefs that have ensued.\" Thomas Jefferson's influential Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom was enacted in 1786, five years before the Bill of Rights.\n\nMost Anglican ministers, and many Anglicans, were Loyalists. The Anglican establishment, where it had existed, largely ceased to function during the American Revolution, though the new States did not formally abolish and replace it until some years after the Revolution.\n\nThe phrase \"[A] hedge or \"wall of separation\" between the garden of the church and the wilderness of the world\" was first used by Baptist theologian Roger Williams, the founder of the colony of Rhode Island, in his 1644 book \"The Bloody Tenent of Persecution\". The phrase was later used by Thomas Jefferson as a description of the First Amendment and its restriction on the legislative branch of the federal government, in an 1802 letter to the Danbury Baptists (a religious minority concerned about the dominant position of the Congregationalist church in Connecticut):\n\nBelieving with you that religion is a matter which lies solely between man and his god, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship, that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their \"legislature\" should \"make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,\" thus building a \"wall of separation\" between church and State. Adhering to this expression of the supreme will of the nation in behalf of the rights of conscience, I shall see with sincere satisfaction the progress of those sentiments which tend to restore to man all his natural rights, convinced he has no natural right in opposition to his social duties.\n\nJefferson's letter was in reply to a letter from the Danbury Baptist Association dated October 7, 1801. In an 1808 letter to Virginia Baptists, Jefferson used the same theme:\n\nWe have solved, by fair experiment, the great and interesting question whether freedom of religion is compatible with order in government and obedience to the laws. And we have experienced the quiet as well as the comfort which results from leaving every one to profess freely and openly those principles of religion which are the inductions of his own reason and the serious convictions of his own inquiries.\n\nJefferson and James Madison's conceptions of \"separation\" have long been debated. Jefferson refused to issue Proclamations of Thanksgiving sent to him by Congress during his presidency, though he did issue a Thanksgiving and Prayer proclamation as Governor of Virginia. Madison issued four religious proclamations while President, but vetoed two bills on the grounds they violated the first amendment. On the other hand, both Jefferson and Madison attended religious services at the Capitol. Years before the ratification of the Constitution, Madison contended \"Because if Religion be exempt from the authority of the Society at large, still less can it be subject to that of the Legislative Body.\" After retiring from the presidency, Madison wrote of \"total separation of the church from the state.\" \" \"Strongly guarded as is the separation between Religion & Govt in the Constitution of the United States,\" Madison wrote, and he declared, \"practical distinction between Religion and Civil Government is essential to the purity of both, and as guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States.\" In a letter to Edward Livingston Madison further expanded, \"We are teaching the world the great truth that Govts. do better without Kings & Nobles than with them. The merit will be doubled by the other lesson that Religion flourishes in greater purity, without than with the aid of Govt.\" Madison's original draft of the Bill of Rights had included provisions binding the States, as well as the Federal Government, from an establishment of religion, but the House did not pass them.\n\nJefferson's opponents said his position was the destruction and the governmental rejection of Christianity, but this was a caricature. In setting up the University of Virginia, Jefferson encouraged all the separate sects to have preachers of their own, though there was a constitutional ban on the State supporting a Professorship of Divinity, arising from his own Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Some have argued that this arrangement was \"fully compatible with Jefferson's views on the separation of church and state;\" however, others point to Jefferson's support for a scheme in which students at the university would attend religious worship each morning as evidence that his views were not consistent with strict separation. Still other scholars, such as Mark David Hall, attempt to sidestep the whole issue by arguing that American jurisprudence focuses too narrowly on this one Jeffersonian letter while failing to account for other relevant history\n\nJefferson's letter entered American jurisprudence in the 1878 Mormon polygamy case \"Reynolds v. U.S.\", in which the court cited Jefferson and Madison, seeking a legal definition for the word \"religion\". Writing for the majority, Justice Stephen Johnson Field cited Jefferson's \"Letter to the Danbury Baptists\" to state that \"Congress was deprived of all legislative power over mere opinion, but was left free to reach actions which were in violation of social duties or subversive of good order.\"\nConsidering this, the court ruled that outlawing polygamy was constitutional.\n\nJefferson and Madison's approach was not the only one taken in the eighteenth century. Jefferson's Statute of Religious Freedom was drafted in opposition to a bill, chiefly supported by Patrick Henry, which would permit any Virginian to belong to any denomination, but which would require him to belong to some denomination and pay taxes to support it. Similarly, the Constitution of Massachusetts originally provided that \"no subject shall be hurt, molested, or restrained, in his person, liberty, or estate, for worshipping God in the manner and season most agreeable to the dictates of his own conscience... provided he doth not disturb the public peace, or obstruct others in their religious worship\" (Article II), but also that:\n\nSince, in practice, this meant that the decision of who was taxable for a particular religion rested in the hands of the selectmen, usually Congregationalists, this system was open to abuse. It was abolished in 1833. The intervening period is sometimes referred to as an \"establishment of religion\" in Massachusetts.\n\nThe Duke of York had required that every community in his new lands of New York and New Jersey support \"some\" church, but this was more often Dutch Reformed, Quaker, or Presbyterian, than Anglican. Some chose to support more than one church. He also ordained that the tax-payers were free, having paid his local tax, to choose their own church. The terms for the surrender of New Amsterdam had provided that the Dutch would have liberty of conscience, and the Duke, as an openly divine-right Catholic, was no friend of Anglicanism. The first Anglican minister in New Jersey arrived in 1698, though Anglicanism was more popular in New York.\n\nConnecticut had a real establishment of religion. Its citizens did not adopt a constitution at the Revolution, but rather amended their Charter to remove all references to the British Government. As a result, the Congregational Church continued to be established, and Yale College, at that time a Congregational institution, received grants from the State until Connecticut adopted a constitution in 1818 partly because of this issue.\n\nThe absence of an establishment of religion did not necessarily imply that all men were free to hold office. Most colonies had a Test Act, and several states retained them for a short time. This stood in contrast to the Federal Constitution, which explicitly prohibits the employment of any religious test for Federal office, and which through the Fourteenth Amendment later extended this prohibition to the States.\n\nFor example, the New Jersey Constitution of 1776 provides liberty of conscience in much the same language as Massachusetts (similarly forbidding payment of \"taxes, tithes or other payments\" contrary to conscience). It then provides:\n\nThat there shall be \"no establishment\" of any one religious sect in this Province, in preference to another; and that \"no Protestant inhabitant\" of this Colony shall be denied the enjoyment of any civil right, merely on account of his religious principles; but that all persons, professing a belief in the faith of \"any Protestant sect\", who shall demean themselves peaceably under the government, as hereby established, shall be capable of being elected into any office of profit or trust, or being a member of either branch of the Legislature, and shall fully and freely enjoy every privilege and immunity, enjoyed by others their fellow subjects.\n\nThis would permit a Test Act, but did not require one.\n\nThe original charter of the Province of East Jersey had restricted membership in the Assembly to Christians; the Duke of York was fervently Catholic, and the proprietors of Perth Amboy, New Jersey were Scottish Catholic peers. The Province of West Jersey had declared, in 1681, that there should be no religious test for office. An oath had also been imposed on the militia during the French and Indian War requiring them to abjure the pretensions of the Pope, which may or may not have been applied during the Revolution. That law was replaced by 1799.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776 provided:\n\nAgain, it provided in general that all tax-paying freemen and their sons shall be able to \"vote\", and that no \"man, \"who acknowledges the being of a God\", be justly deprived or abridged of any civil right as a citizen, on account of his religious sentiments or peculiar mode of religious worship.\"\n\nArticle Six of the United States Constitution provides that \"no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States\". Prior to the adoption of the Bill of Rights, this was the only mention of religion in the Constitution.\n\nThe first amendment to the US Constitution states \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof\" The two parts, known as the \"establishment clause\" and the \"free exercise clause\" respectively, form the textual basis for the Supreme Court's interpretations of the \"separation of church and state\" doctrine. Three central concepts were derived from the 1st Amendment which became America's doctrine for church-state separation: no coercion in religious matters, no expectation to support a religion against one's will, and religious liberty encompasses all religions. In sum, citizens are free to embrace or reject a faith, any support for religion - financial or physical - must be voluntary, and all religions are equal in the eyes of the law with no special preference or favoritism.\n\nThe First Congress' deliberations show that its understanding of the separation of church and state differed sharply from that of their contemporaries in Europe. As 19th century Union Theological Seminary historian Philip Schaff observed:\n\nThe American separation of church and state rests upon respect for the church; the [European anticlerical] separation, on indifference and hatred of the church, and of religion itself... The constitution did not create a nation, nor its religion and institutions. It found them already existing, and was framed for the purpose of protecting them under a republican form of government, in a rule of the people, by the people, and for the people.\n\nAn August 15, 1789 entry in Madison's papers indicates he intended for the establishment clause to prevent the government imposition of religious beliefs on individuals. The entry says: \"Mr. Madison said he apprehended the meaning of the words to be, that Congress should not establish a religion, and enforce the legal observation of it by law, nor compel men to worship God in any manner contrary to their conscience. ...\"\n\nSome legal scholars, such as John Baker of LSU, theorize that Madison's initial proposed language—that Congress should make no law regarding the establishment of a \"national religion\"—was rejected by the House, in favor of the more general \"religion\" in an effort to appease the Anti-Federalists. To both the Anti-Federalists and the Federalists, the very word \"national\" was a cause for alarm because of the experience under the British crown. During the debate over the establishment clause, Rep. Elbridge Gerry of Massachusetts took issue with Madison's language regarding whether the government was a national government, or a federal government]] (in which the states retained their individual sovereignty), which Baker suggests compelled Madison to withdraw his language from the debate.\n\nFollowing the argument between Madison and Gerry, Rep. Samuel Livermore of New Hampshire proposed language stating that, \"Congress shall make no laws touching religion or the rights of conscience.\" This raised an uproar from members, such as Rep. Benjamin Huntingdon of Connecticut and Rep. Peter Sylvester of New York, who worried the language could be used to harm religious practice.\n\nOthers, such as Rep. Roger Sherman of Connecticut, believed the clause was unnecessary because the original Constitution only gave Congress stated powers, which did not include establishing a national religion.\nAnti-Federalists such as Rep. Thomas Tucker of South Carolina moved to strike the establishment clause completely because it could preempt the religious clauses in the state constitutions. However, the Anti-Federalists were unsuccessful in persuading the House of Representatives to drop the clause from the first amendment.\n\nThe Senate went through several more narrowly targeted versions before reaching the contemporary language. One version read, \"Congress shall make no law establishing one religious sect or society in preference to others, nor shall freedom of conscience be infringed,\" while another read, \"Congress shall make no law establishing one particular religious denomination in preference to others.\" Ultimately, the Senate rejected the more narrowly targeted language.\n\nAt the time of the passage of the Bill of Rights, many states acted in ways that would now be held unconstitutional. All of the early official state churches were disestablished by 1833 (Massachusetts), including the Congregationalist establishment in Connecticut. It is commonly accepted that, under the doctrine of Incorporation—which uses the Due Process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to hold the Bill of Rights applicable to the states—these state churches could not be reestablished today.\n\nYet the provisions of state constitutions protected religious liberty, particularly the so-called freedom of conscience. During the nineteenth century (and before the incorporation of the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution through the Fourteenth Amendment), litigants turned to these provisions to challenge Sunday laws (blue laws), bible-reading in schools, and other ostensibly religious regulations.\n\nDavid Sehat, professor of American Intellectual and Cultural History at Georgia State University, writes that:\n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution (Amendment XIV) is one of the post-Civil War amendments, intended to secure rights for former slaves. It includes the due process and equal protection clauses among others. The amendment introduces the concept of incorporation of all relevant federal rights against the states. While it has not been fully implemented, the doctrine of incorporation has been used to ensure, through the Due Process Clause and Privileges and Immunities Clause, the application of most of the rights enumerated in the Bill of Rights to the states.\n\nThe incorporation of the First Amendment establishment clause in the landmark case of \"Everson v. Board of Education\" has affected the subsequent interpretation of the separation of church and state in regard to the state governments. Although upholding the state law in that case, which provided for public busing to private religious schools, the Supreme Court held that the First Amendment establishment clause was fully applicable to the state governments. A more recent case involving the application of this principle against the states was \"Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet\" (1994).\n\nJefferson's concept of \"separation of church and state\" first became a part of Establishment Clause jurisprudence in \"Reynolds v. U.S.\", 98 U.S. 145 (1878). In that case, the court examined the history of religious liberty in the US, determining that while the constitution guarantees religious freedom, \"The word 'religion' is not defined in the Constitution. We must go elsewhere, therefore, to ascertain its meaning, and nowhere more appropriately, we think, than to the history of the times in the midst of which the provision was adopted.\" The court found that the leaders in advocating and formulating the constitutional guarantee of religious liberty were James Madison and Thomas Jefferson. Quoting the \"separation\" paragraph from Jefferson's letter to the Danbury Baptists, the court concluded that, \"coming as this does from an acknowledged leader of the advocates of the measure, it may be accepted almost as an authoritative declaration of the scope and effect of the amendment thus secured.\"\n\nThe centrality of the \"separation\" concept to the Religion Clauses of the Constitution was made explicit in \"Everson v. Board of Education\", 330 U.S. 1 (1947), a case dealing with a New Jersey law that allowed government funds to pay for transportation of students to both public and Catholic schools. This was the first case in which the court applied the Establishment Clause to the laws of a state, having interpreted the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as applying the Bill of Rights to the states as well as the federal legislature. Citing Jefferson, the court concluded that \"The First Amendment has erected a wall between church and state. That wall must be kept high and impregnable. We could not approve the slightest breach.\"\n\nWhile the decision (with four dissents) ultimately upheld the state law allowing the funding of transportation of students to religious schools, the majority opinion (by Justice Hugo Black) and the dissenting opinions (by Justice Wiley Blount Rutledge and Justice Robert H. Jackson) each explicitly stated that the Constitution has erected a \"wall between church and state\" or a \"separation of Church from State\": their disagreement was limited to whether this case of state funding of transportation to religious schools breached that wall. Rutledge, on behalf of the four dissenting justices, took the position that the majority had indeed permitted a violation of the wall of separation in this case: \"Neither so high nor so impregnable today as yesterday is the wall raised between church and state by Virginia's great statute of religious freedom and the First Amendment, now made applicable to all the states by the Fourteenth.\" Writing separately, Justice Jackson argued that \"[T]here are no good grounds upon which to support the present legislation. In fact, the undertones of the opinion, advocating complete and uncompromising separation of Church from State, seem utterly discordant with its conclusion yielding support to their commingling in educational matters.\"\n\nIn 1962, the Supreme Court addressed the issue of officially sponsored prayer or religious recitations in public schools. In \"Engel v. Vitale\", 370 U.S. 421 (1962), the Court, by a vote of 6-1, determined it unconstitutional for state officials to compose an official school prayer and require its recitation in public schools, even when the prayer is non-denominational and students may excuse themselves from participation. (The prayer required by the New York State Board of Regents prior to the Court's decision consisted of: \"Almighty God, we acknowledge our dependence upon Thee, and we beg Thy blessings upon us, our parents, our teachers, and our country. Amen.\") As the Court stated:\n\nThe petitioners contend, among other things, that the state laws requiring or permitting use of the Regents' prayer must be struck down as a violation of the Establishment Clause because that prayer was composed by governmental officials as a part of a governmental program to further religious beliefs. For this reason, petitioners argue, the State's use of the Regents' prayer in its public school system breaches the constitutional wall of separation between Church and State. We agree with that contention, since we think that the constitutional prohibition against laws respecting an establishment of religion must at least mean that, in this country, it is no part of the business of government to compose official prayers for any group of the American people to recite as a part of a religious program carried on by government.\n\nThe court noted that it \"is a matter of history that this very practice of establishing governmentally composed prayers for religious services was one of the reasons which caused many of our early colonists to leave England and seek religious freedom in America.\" The lone dissenter, Justice Potter Stewart, objected to the court's embrace of the \"wall of separation\" metaphor: \"I think that the Court's task, in this as in all areas of constitutional adjudication, is not responsibly aided by the uncritical invocation of metaphors like the \"wall of separation,\" a phrase nowhere to be found in the Constitution.\"\n\nIn \"Epperson v. Arkansas\", 393 U.S. 97 (1968), the Supreme Court considered an Arkansas law that made it a crime \"to teach the theory or doctrine that mankind ascended or descended from a lower order of animals,\" or \"to adopt or use in any such institution a textbook that teaches\" this theory in any school or university that received public funds. The court's opinion, written by Justice Abe Fortas, ruled that the Arkansas law violated \"the constitutional prohibition of state laws respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. The overriding fact is that Arkansas' law selects from the body of knowledge a particular segment which it proscribes for the sole reason that it is deemed to conflict with a particular religious doctrine; that is, with a particular interpretation of the Book of Genesis by a particular religious group.\" The court held that the Establishment Clause prohibits the state from advancing any religion, and that \"[T]he state has no legitimate interest in protecting any or all religions from views distasteful to them.\" \n\nIn \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\", 403 U.S. 602 (1971), the court determined that a Pennsylvania state policy of reimbursing the salaries and related costs of teachers of secular subjects in private religious schools violated the Establishment Clause. The court's decision argued that the separation of church and state could never be absolute: \"Our prior holdings do not call for total separation between church and state; total separation is not possible in an absolute sense. Some relationship between government and religious organizations is inevitable,\" the court wrote. \"Judicial caveats against entanglement must recognize that the line of separation, far from being a 'wall', is a blurred, indistinct, and variable barrier depending on all the circumstances of a particular relationship.\"\n\nSubsequent to this decision, the Supreme Court has applied a three-pronged test to determine whether government action comports with the Establishment Clause, known as the \"Lemon Test\". First, the law or policy must have been adopted with a neutral or non-religious purpose. Second, the principle or primary effect must be one that neither advances nor inhibits religion. Third, the statute or policy must not result in an \"excessive entanglement\" of government with religion. (The decision in \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\" hinged upon the conclusion that the government benefits were flowing disproportionately to Catholic schools, and that Catholic schools were an integral component of the Catholic Church's religious mission, thus the policy involved the state in an \"excessive entanglement\" with religion.) Failure to meet any of these criteria is a proof that the statute or policy in question violates the Establishment Clause.\n\nIn 2002, a three judge panel on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held that classroom recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in a California public school was unconstitutional, even when students were not compelled to recite it, due to the inclusion of the phrase \"under God.\" In reaction to the case, \"Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow\", both houses of Congress passed measures reaffirming their support for the pledge, and condemning the panel's ruling. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court, where the case was ultimately overturned in June 2004, solely on procedural grounds not related to the substantive constitutional issue. Rather, a five-justice majority held that Newdow, a non-custodial parent suing on behalf of his daughter, lacked standing to sue.\n\nWhen the Louisiana state legislature passed a law requiring public school biology teachers to give Creationism and Evolution equal time in the classroom, the Supreme Court ruled that the law was unconstitutional because it was intended to advance a particular religion, and did not serve the secular purpose of improved scientific education.\n\nThe display of the Ten Commandments as part of courthouse displays was considered in a group of cases decided in summer of 2005, including \"McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky\" and \"Van Orden v. Perry\". While parties on both sides hoped for a reformulation or clarification of the Lemon test, the two rulings ended with narrow 5–4 and opposing decisions, with Justice Stephen Breyer the swing vote.\n\nOn December 20, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled in the case of ACLU v. Mercer County that the continued display of the Ten Commandments as part of a larger display on American legal traditions in a Kentucky courthouse was allowed, because the purpose of the display (educating the public on American legal traditions) was secular in nature. In ruling on the Mount Soledad cross controversy on May 3, 2006, however, a federal judge ruled that the cross on public property on Mount Soledad must be removed.\n\nIn what will be the case is Town of Greece v. Galloway, 12-696, the Supreme Court agreed to hear a case regarding whether prayers at town meetings, which are allowed, must allow various faiths to lead prayer, or whether the prayers can be predominately Christian. On May 5, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in favor of the Town of Greece by holding that the U.S. Constitution not only allows for prayer at government meetings, but also for sectarian prayers like predominately Christian prayers.\n\nIn 1783, the United States signed a treaty with Great Britain that was promulgated \"in the name of the Most Holy and Undivided Trinity\". It credited \"'Divine Providence' with having disposed the two parties to 'forget all past misunderstandings,' and is dated 'in the year of our Lord' 1783.\"\n\nIn 1797, the United States Senate ratified a treaty with Tripoli that stated in Article 11:\n\nAs the Government of the United States of America is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian religion; as it has in itself no character of enmity against the laws, religion, or tranquillity, of Mussulmen; and, as the said States never entered into any war, or act of hostility against any Mahometan nation, it is declared by the parties, that no pretext arising from religious opinions, shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony existing between the two countries.\n\nHistorian Anson Phelps Stokes' noted that \"those who wished to deny that the United States as a government has any special regard for the Christian religion...[have ] almost invariably failed to call attention to the fact that the treaty was superseded, less than a decade later, by another 'Treaty of Peace and Amity,' signed in Tripoli June 4, 1805, in which the clause in question...is omitted.\"\n\nIn the 1892 case \"Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States\", Supreme Court Justice David Brewer wrote for a unanimous Court that \"no purpose of action against religion can be imputed to any legislation, state or national, because this is a religious people. ... [T]his is a Christian nation.\" Legal historian Paul Finkelman writes that: \n\nSome scholars and organizations disagree with the notion of \"separation of church and state\", or the way the Supreme Court has interpreted the constitutional limitation on religious establishment. Such critics generally argue that the phrase misrepresents the textual requirements of the Constitution, while noting that many aspects of church and state were intermingled at the time the Constitution was ratified. These critics argue that the prevalent degree of separation of church and state could not have been intended by the constitutional framers. Some of the intermingling between church and state include religious references in official contexts, and such other founding documents as the United States Declaration of Independence, which references the idea of a \"Creator\" and \"Nature's God\", though these references did not ultimately appear in the Constitution nor do they mention any particular religious view of a \"Creator\" or \"Nature's God.\"\n\nThe issue is complex, however, as the incorporation ultimately bases on the passage of the 14th Amendment in 1868, at which point the first amendment's application to the state government was recognized. Many of these constitutional debates relate to the competing interpretive theories of originalism versus modern, progressivist theories such as the doctrine of the Living Constitution. Other debates center on the principle of the law of the land in America being defined not just by the Constitution's Supremacy Clause, but also by legal precedence, making an accurate reading of the Constitution subject to the mores and values of a given era, and rendering the concept of historical revisionism irrelevant when discussing the Constitution.\n\nThe \"religious test\" clause has been interpreted to cover both elected officials and appointed ones, career civil servants as well as political appointees. Religious beliefs or the lack of them have therefore not been permissible tests or qualifications with regard to federal employees since the ratification of the Constitution. Seven states, however, have language included in their Bill of Rights or Declaration of Rights, or in the body of their constitutions that require state office-holders to have particular religious beliefs, though some of these have been successfully challenged in court. These states are Texas, Massachusetts, Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Tennessee.\n\nThe required beliefs of these clauses include belief in a Supreme Being and belief in a future state of rewards and punishments. (Tennessee Constitution Article IX, Section 2 is one such example.) Some of these same states specify that the oath of office include the words \"so help me God.\" In some cases these beliefs (or oaths) were historically required of jurors and witnesses in court. At one time, such restrictions were allowed under the doctrine of states' rights; today they are deemed to be in violation of the federal First Amendment, as applied to the states via the 14th amendment, and hence unconstitutional and unenforceable.\n\nRelaxed zoning rules and special parking privileges for churches, the tax-free status of church property, the fact that Christmas is a federal holiday, etc., have also been questioned, but have been considered examples of the governmental prerogative in deciding practical and beneficial arrangements for the society. The national motto \"In God We Trust\" has been challenged as a violation, but the Supreme Court has ruled that ceremonial deism is not religious in nature. A circuit court ruling affirmed Ohio's right to use as its motto a passage from the Bible, \"With God, all things are possible\", because it displayed no preference for a particular religion.\n\nJeffries and Ryan (2001) argue that the modern concept of separation of church and state dates from the mid-twentieth century rulings of the Supreme Court. The central point, they argue, was a constitutional ban against aid to religious schools, followed by a later ban on religious observance in public education. Jeffries and Ryan argue that these two propositions—that public aid should not go to religious schools and that public schools should not be religious—make up the separationist position of the modern Establishment Clause.\n\nJeffries and Ryan argue that no-aid position drew support from a coalition of separationist opinion. Most important was \"the pervasive secularism that came to dominate American public life,\" which sought to confine religion to a private sphere. Further, the ban against government aid to religious schools was supported before 1970 by most Protestants (and most Jews), who opposed aid to religious schools, which were mostly Catholic at the time. After 1980, however, anti-Catholic sentiment has diminished among mainline Protestants, and the crucial coalition of public secularists and Protestant churches has collapsed. While mainline Protestant denominations are more inclined towards strict separation of church and state, much evangelical opinion has now largely deserted that position. As a consequence, strict separationism is opposed today by members of many Protestant faiths, even perhaps eclipsing the opposition of Roman Catholics.\n\nCritics of the modern concept of the \"separation of church and state\" argue that it is untethered to anything in the text of the constitution and is contrary to the conception of the phrase as the Founding Fathers understood it. Philip Hamburger, Columbia Law school professor and prominent critic of the modern understanding of the concept, maintains that the modern concept, which deviates from the constitutional establishment clause jurisprudence, is rooted in American anti-Catholicism and Nativism. Briefs before the Supreme Court, including by the U.S. government, have argued that some state constitutional amendments relating to the modern conception of separation of church and state (Blaine Amendments) were motivated by and intended to enact anti-Catholicism.\n\nJ. Brent Walker, Executive Director of the Baptist Joint Committee, responded to Hamburger's claims noting; \"The fact that the separation of church and state has been supported by some who exhibited an anti-Catholic animus or a secularist bent does not impugn the validity of the principle. Champions of religious liberty have argued for the separation of church and state for reasons having nothing to do with anti-Catholicism or desire for a secular culture. Of course, separationists have opposed the Catholic Church when it has sought to tap into the public till to support its parochial schools or to argue for on-campus released time in the public schools. But that principled debate on the issues does not support a charge of religious bigotry\"\n\nSteven Waldman notes that; \"The evangelicals provided the political muscle for the efforts of Madison and Jefferson, not merely because they wanted to block official churches but because they wanted to keep the spiritual and secular worlds apart.\" Frank Lambert wrote \n\"Religious freedom resulted from an alliance of unlikely partners. New Light evangelicals such as Isaac Bachus and John Leland joined forces with Deists and skeptics such as James Madison and Thomas Jefferson to fight for a complete separation of church and state.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Charles C. Haynes noted in \"The Washington Post\" that:\nRobert N. Bellah has written that although the separation of church and state is grounded firmly in the constitution of the United States, this does not mean that there is no religious dimension in the political society of the United States. He used the term \"Civil Religion\" to describe the specific relation between politics and religion in the United States. His 1967 article analyzes the inaugural speech of John F. Kennedy: \"Considering the separation of church and state, how is a president justified in using the word 'God' at all? The answer is that the separation of church and state has not denied the political realm a religious dimension.\"\n\nRobert S. Wood has argued that the United States is a model for the world in terms of how a separation of church and state—no state-run or state-established church—is good for both the church and the state, allowing a variety of religions to flourish. Speaking at the Toronto-based Center for New Religions, Wood said that the freedom of conscience and assembly allowed under such a system has led to a \"remarkable religiosity\" in the United States that isn't present in other industrialized nations. Wood believes that the U.S. operates on \"a sort of civic religion,\" which includes a generally shared belief in a creator who \"expects better of us.\" Beyond that, individuals are free to decide how they want to believe and fill in their own creeds and express their conscience. He calls this approach the \"genius of religious sentiment in the United States.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1059378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1059378", "title": "Shinto shrine", "text": "Shinto shrine\n\nA is a structure whose main purpose is to house (\"enshrine\") one or more \"kami\". Its most important building is used for the safekeeping of sacred objects, and not for worship. Although only one word (\"shrine\") is used in English, in Japanese Shinto shrines may carry any one of many different, non-equivalent names like \"gongen\", \"-gū\", \"jinja\", \"jingū\", \"mori\", \"myōjin\", \"-sha\", \"taisha\", \"ubusuna\" or \"yashiro\". (For details, see the section Interpreting shrine names.)\n\nStructurally, a Shinto shrine is usually characterized by the presence of a \"honden\" or sanctuary, where the \"kami\" is enshrined. The \"honden\" may however be completely absent, as for example when the shrine stands on a sacred mountain to which it is dedicated, and which is worshiped directly. The \"honden\" may be missing also when there are nearby altar-like structures called \"himorogi\" or objects believed capable of attracting spirits called \"yorishiro\" that can serve as a direct bond to a \"kami\". There may be a and other structures as well (see below). However, a shrine's most important building is used for the safekeeping of sacred objects rather than for worship.\n\nMiniature shrines (hokora) can occasionally be found on roadsides. Large shrines sometimes have on their precincts miniature shrines ( or ). The portable shrines (mikoshi) which are carried on poles during festivals (\"matsuri\") enshrine \"kami\" and are therefore true shrines.\n\nIn 927 CE, the Engi-shiki (延喜式, literally, Procedures of the Engi Era) was promulgated. This work listed all of the 2,861 Shinto shrines existing at the time, and the 3,131 official-recognized and enshrined Kami. Certainly, that number has grown and greatly exceeded this figure through the following generations. In Agency for Cultural Affairs in Japan placed the number of shrines at 79,467, mostly affiliated with the Association of Shinto Shrines (神社本庁). Some shrines, such as the Yasukuni Shrine are totally independent of any outside authority. The number of Shinto shrines in Japan is estimated to be around 100,000. This figure may, or may not, include private shrines in homes and owned by small groups, abandoned or derelict shrines, roadside Hokora. etc.\n\nAncestors are \"kami\" to be worshiped. Yayoi-period village councils sought the advice of ancestors and other \"kami\", and developed instruments () to evoke them. \"Yoshishiro\" means \"approach substitute\" and were conceived to attract the \"kami\" to allow them physical space, thus making \"kami\" accessible to human beings.\n\nVillage-council sessions were held in quiet spots in the mountains or in forests near great trees or other natural objects that served as \"yorishiro\". These sacred places and their \"yorishiro\" gradually evolved into today's shrines, whose origins can be still seen in the Japanese words for \"mountain\" and \"forest\", which can also mean \"shrine\". Many shrines have on their grounds one of the original great \"yorishiro\": a big tree, surrounded by a sacred rope called .\n\nThe first buildings at places dedicated to worship were surely huts built to house some \"yorishiro\". A trace of this origin can be found in the term , \"deity storehouse\", which evolved into \"hokora\" (written with the same characters 神庫), and is considered to be one of the first words for shrine.\n\nTrue shrines arose with the beginning of agriculture, when the need arose to attract \"kami\" to ensure good harvests. These were, however, just temporary structures built for a particular purpose, a tradition of which traces can be found in some rituals.　\n\nHints of the first shrines can still be found here and there. Ōmiwa Shrine in Nara, for example, contains no sacred images or objects because it is believed to serve the mountain on which it stands. Those images or objects are therefore unnecessary. For the same reason, it has a worship hall (a ) but no place to house the \"kami\" (). Archeology confirms that, during the Yayoi period, the most common (a \"yorishiro\" actually housing the enshrined \"kami\") in the earliest shrines were nearby mountain peaks that supplied stream water to the plains where people lived. Besides the already mentioned Ōmiwa Shrine, another important example is Mount Nantai, a phallus-shaped mountain in Nikko which constitutes Futarasan Shrine's \"shintai\". Significantly, the name means \"man's body\". The mountain not only provides water to the rice paddies below but has the shape of the phallic stone rods found in pre-agricultural Jōmon sites.\n\nIn 905 CE, Emperor Daigo ordered a compilation of Shinto rites and rules. Previous attempts at codification are known to have taken place, but, neither the \"Konin\" nor the \"Jogan Gishiki\" survive. Initially under the direction of Fujiwara no Tokihira, the project stalled at his death in April 909. Fujiwara no Tadahira, his brother, took charge and in 912 CE and in 927 CE the Engi-shiki (延喜式, literally, Procedures of the Engi Era) was promulgated in fifty volumes. This, the first formal codification of Shinto rites and Norito (liturgies and prayers) to survive, became the basis for all subsequent Shinto liturgical practice and efforts. In addition to the first ten volumes of this fifty volume work (which concerned worship and the Department of Worship), sections in subsequent volumes addressing the Ministry of Ceremonies (治部省) and the Ministry of the Imperial Household (宮内省) also regulated Shinto worship and contained liturgical rites and regulation. Felicia Gressitt Brock published a two-volume annotated English language translation of the first ten volumes with an introduction entitled \"Engi-shiki; procedures of the Engi Era\" in 1970.\n\nThe arrival of Buddhism changed the situation, introducing to Japan the concept of the permanent shrine. A great number of Buddhist temples were built next to existing shrines in mixed complexes called to help priesthood deal with local \"kami\", making those shrines permanent. Some time in their evolution, the word meaning \"palace\" came into use, indicating that shrines had by then become the imposing structures of today.\n\nOnce the first permanent shrines were built, Shinto revealed a strong tendency to resist architectural change, a tendency which manifested itself in the so-called , the tradition of rebuilding shrines faithfully at regular intervals adhering strictly to their original design. This custom is the reason ancient styles have been replicated through the centuries to the present day, remaining more or less intact. Ise Shrine, still rebuilt every 20 years, is its best extant example. The tradition of rebuilding shrines or temples is present in other religions, but in Shinto it has played a particularly significant role in preserving ancient architectural styles. Izumo Taisha, Sumiyoshi Taisha and Nishina Shinmei Shrine in fact represent each a different style whose origin is believed to predate Buddhism in Japan, a religion which arrived in Japan around the beginning of the sixth century. These three styles are known respectively as \"taisha-zukuri\", \"sumiyoshi-zukuri\" and \"shinmei-zukuri\" (see description below).\n\nShrines weren't of course completely immune to change, and in fact show various influences, particularly that of Buddhism, a cultural import which provided much of Shinto architecture's vocabulary. The , the \"haiden\", the , the \"tōrō\", or stone lantern, and the \"komainu\", or lion dogs (see below for an explanation of these terms), are all elements borrowed from Buddhism.\n\nUntil the Meiji period (1868–1912), shrines as we know them today were rare. With very few exceptions like Ise Shrine and Izumo Taisha, they were just a part of a temple-shrine complex controlled by Buddhist clergy. These complexes were called , places of worship composed of a Buddhist temple and of a shrine dedicated to a local \"kami\". The complexes were born when a temple was erected next to a shrine to help its \"kami\"\nwith its karmic problems. At the time, \"kami\" were thought to be also subjected to karma, and therefore in need of a salvation only Buddhism could provide. Having first appeared during the Nara period (710–794), the \"jingū-ji\" remained common for over a millennium until, with few exceptions, they were destroyed in compliance with the new policies of the Meiji administration in 1868.\n\nThe Shinto shrine went through a cataclysmic change when the Meiji administration promulgated a new policy of separation of \"kami\" and foreign Buddhas (\"shinbutsu bunri\") with the . This event is of great historical importance partly because it triggered the \"haibutsu kishaku\", a violent anti-Buddhist movement which in the final years of the Tokugawa shogunate and during the Meiji Restoration caused the forcible closure of thousands of Buddhist temples, the confiscation of their land, the forced return to lay life of monks, and the destruction of books, statues and other Buddhist property.\n\nUntil the end of Edo period, local \"kami\" beliefs and Buddhism were intimately connected in what was called \"shinbutsu shūgō\" (神仏習合), up to the point that even the same buildings were used as both Shinto shrines and Buddhist temples.\n\nAfter the law, the two would be forcibly separated. This was done in several stages. A first order issued by the \"Jingijimuka\" in April 1868 ordered the defrocking of \"shasō\" and \"bettō\" (shrine monks performing Buddhist rites at Shinto shrines).\n\nA few days later, the 'Daijōkan' banned the application of Buddhist terminology such as \"gongen\" to Japanese \"kami\" and the veneration of Buddhist statues in shrines.\n\nThe third stage consisted of the prohibition against applying the Buddhist term \"Daibosatsu\" (Great Bodhisattva) to the syncretic \"kami\" Hachiman at the Iwashimizu Hachiman-gū and Usa Hachiman-gū shrines.\n\nIn the fourth and final stage, all the defrocked \"bettō\" and \"shasō\" were told to become \"shrine priests\" (\"kannushi\") and return to their shrines. Also, monks of the Nichiren sect were told not to refer to some deities as \"kami\".\n\nAfter a short period in which it enjoyed popular favor, the process of separation of Buddhas and \"kami\" however stalled and is still only partially completed: to this day, almost all Buddhist temples in Japan have a small shrine (\"chinjusha\") dedicated to its Shinto tutelary \"kami\", and vice versa Buddhist figures (e.g. goddess Kannon) are revered in Shinto shrines.\n\nThe defining features of a shrine are the \"kami\" it enshrines and the \"shintai\" (or \"go-shintai\" if the honorific prefix \"go-\" is used) that houses it. While the name literally means \"body of a kami\", \"shintai\" are physical objects worshiped at or near Shinto shrines because a \"kami\" is believed to reside in them. In spite of what their name may suggest, \"shintai\" are not themselves part of \"kami\", but rather just symbolic repositories which make them accessible to human beings for worship. It is said therefore that the \"kami\" \"inhabits\" them. \"Shintai\" are also of necessity \"yorishiro\", that is objects by their very nature capable of attracting \"kami\".\n\nThe most common \"shintai\" are man-made objects like mirrors, swords, jewels (for example comma-shaped stones called \"magatama)\", \"gohei\" (wands used during religious rites), and sculptures of \"kami\" called , but they can be also natural objects such as rocks, mountains, trees and waterfalls. Mountains were among the first, and are still among the most important, \"shintai\", and are worshiped at several famous shrines. A mountain believed to house a \"kami\", as for example Mount Fuji or Mount Miwa, is called a . In the case of a man-made \"shintai\", a \"kami\" must be invited to reside in it (see the next subsection, \"Kanjō\").\n\nThe founding of a new shrine requires the presence of either a pre-existing, naturally occurring \"shintai\" (for example a rock or waterfall housing a local \"kami\"), or of an artificial one, which must therefore be procured or made to the purpose. An example of the first case are the Nachi Falls, worshiped at Hiryū Shrine near Kumano Nachi Taisha and believed to be inhabited by a \"kami\" called Hiryū Gongen.\n\nThe first duty of a shrine is to house and protect its \"shintai\" and the \"kami\" which inhabits it. If a shrine has more than one building, the one containing the \"shintai\" is called \"honden\"; because it is meant for the exclusive use of the \"kami\", it is always closed to the public and is not used for prayer or religious ceremonies. The \"shintai\" leaves the \"honden\" only during festivals (\"matsuri\"), when it is put in portable shrines (\"mikoshi\") and carried around the streets among the faithful. The portable shrine is used to physically protect the \"shintai\" and to hide it from sight.\n\nOften the opening of a new shrine will require the ritual division of a \"kami\" and the transferring of one of the two resulting spirits to the new location, where it will animate the \"shintai\". This process is called \"kanjō\", and the divided spirits , or . This process of propagation, described by the priests, in spite of this name, not as a division but as akin to the lighting of a candle from another already lit, leaves the original \"kami\" intact in its original place and therefore doesn't alter any of its properties. The resulting spirit has all the qualities of the original and is therefore \"alive\" and permanent. The process is used often, for example during Shinto festivals (\"Matsuri\") to animate temporary shrines called \"mikoshi\".\n\nThe transfer does not necessarily take place from a shrine to another: the divided spirit's new location can be a privately owned object or an individual's house. The \"kanjō\" process was of fundamental importance in the creation of all of Japan's shrine networks (Inari shrines, Hachiman shrines, etc.).\n\nThose worshiped at a shrine are generally Shinto \"kami\", but sometimes they can be Buddhist or Taoist deities, as well as others not generally considered to belong to Shinto. Some shrines were established to worship living people or figures from myths and legends. A famous example are the Tōshō-gū shrines erected to enshrine Tokugawa Ieyasu, or the many shrines dedicated to Sugawara no Michizane, like Kitano Tenman-gū.\n\nOften the shrines historically most significant do not lie in a former center of power like Kyoto, Nara or Kamakura. For example, Ise Shrine, the Imperial household's family shrine, is in Mie prefecture. Izumo-taisha, one of the oldest and most revered shrines in Japan, is in Shimane prefecture. This is because their location is that of a traditionally important \"kami\", and not that of temporal institutions.\n\nSome shrines exist only in one locality, while others are at the head of a network of that extends to all the country. The spreading of a \"kami\" can be due to one or more of several different mechanisms. The normal one is an operation called \"kanjō\" (see the \"Re-enshrinement\" section above), a propagation process through which a \"kami\" is invited to a new location and there re-enshrined. The new shrine is administratively completely independent from the one it originated from.\n\nHowever, other transfer mechanisms exist. In Ise Shrine's case, for example, its network of Shinmei shrines (from , another name for Amaterasu) grew due to two concurrent causes. During the late Heian period the cult of Amaterasu, worshiped initially only at Ise Shrine, started to spread to the shrine's possessions through the usual \"kanjō\" mechanism. Later, branches shrines started to appear further away. The first evidence of a Shinmei shrine far from Ise is given by the Azuma Kagami, a Kamakura period text which refers to Amanawa Shinmei-gū's appearance in Kamakura, Kanagawa. Amaterasu began being worshiped in other parts of the country also because of the so-called phenomenon, the belief that she would fly to other locations and settle there. Similar mechanisms have been responsible for the spreading around the country of other \"kami\".\n\n The Ise Grand Shrine in Mie prefecture is, with Izumo-taisha, the most representative and historically significant shrine in Japan. The \"kami\" the two enshrine play fundamental roles in the Kojiki and Nihon Shoki, two texts of great importance to Shinto. Because its \"kami\", Amaterasu, is an ancestor of the Emperor, Ise Shrine is the Imperial Household's family shrine. Ise Shrine is, however, dedicated specifically to the Emperor and in the past, even his mother, wife and grandmother needed his permission to worship there. Its traditional and mythological foundation date goes back to 4 BC, but historians believe it was founded around the 3rd to 5th century.\n\nIzumo Taisha (Shimane prefecture) is so old that no document about its birth survives, and the year of foundation is therefore unknown. The shrine is at the center of a series of popular sagas and myths. The \"kami\" it enshrines, Ōkuninushi, created Japan before it was populated by Amaterasu's offspring, the Emperor's ancestors. Because of its physical remoteness, in historical times Izumo has been eclipsed in fame by other sites, but there is still a widespread belief that in October all Japanese gods meet there. For this reason, this month is known also as the (one of its names in the old lunar calendar), while at Izumo Taisha alone it is referred to as the .\n\nFushimi Inari Taisha is the head shrine of the largest shrine network in Japan, which has more than 32 000 members (about a third of the total). Inari Okami worship started here in the 8th century and has continued ever since, expanding to the rest of the country. Located in Fushimi-ku, Kyoto, the shrine sits at the base of a mountain also named Inari, and includes trails up the mountain to many smaller shrines. Another very large example is the Yūtoku Inari Shrine in Kashima City, Saga Prefecture.\n\nŌita Prefecture's Usa Shrine (called in Japanese Usa Jingū or Usa Hachiman-gū) is, together with Iwashimizu Hachiman-gū, the head of the Hachiman shrine network. Hachiman worship started here at least as far back as the Nara period (710–794). In the year 860 the \"kami\" was divided and brought to Iwashimizu Hachiman-gū in Kyoto, which became the focus of Hachiman worship in the capital. Located on top of Mount Otokoyama, Usa Hachiman-gū is dedicated to Emperor Ojin, his mother Empress Jungū and female \"kami\" Hime no Okami.\n\nItsukushima Shrine is, together with Munakata Taisha, at the head of the Munakata shrine network (see below). Remembered for his \"torii\" raising from the waters, it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The shrine is dedicated to the three daughters of Susano-o no Mikoto, \"kami\" of seas and storms and brother of the great sun \"kami\".\n\nKasuga Taisha is a Shinto shrine in the city of Nara, in Nara Prefecture, Japan. Established in 768 A.D. and rebuilt several times over the centuries, it is the shrine of the Fujiwara family. The interior is noted for its many bronze lanterns, as well as the many stone lanterns that lead up the shrine. The architectural style \"Kasuga-zukuri\" takes its name from Kasuga Taisha's \"honden\".\n\nThe Kumano Sanzan shrine complex, head of the Kumano shrine network, includes Kumano Hayatama Taisha (Wakayama Prefecture, Shingu), Kumano Hongu Taisha (Wakayama Prefecture, Tanabe), and Kumano Nachi Taisha (Wakayama Prefecture, Nachikatsuura). The shrines lie at between 20 and 40 km of distance one from the other. They are connected by the pilgrimage route known as . The great Kumano Sanzan complex also includes two Buddhist temples, Seiganto-ji and Fudarakusan-ji.\n\nThe religious significance of the Kumano region goes back to prehistoric times, and therefore predates all modern religions in Japan. The area was, and still is, considered a place of physical healing.\n\nYasukuni shrine, in Tokyo, is dedicated to the soldiers and others who died fighting on behalf of the Emperor of Japan.\n\nThere are estimated to be about 80,000+ shrines in Japan. The majority of Shinto shrines are associated with a shrine network. This counts only shrines with resident priests; if smaller shrines (such as roadside or household shrines) are included, the number would increase by at least an order of magnitude. These are highly concentrated; over one-third are associated with Inari (over 30,000 shrines), and the top six networks comprise over 90% of all shrines, though there are at least 20 networks with over 200 shrines.\nThe next ten networks have sizes going from about 2,000 branches down to about 200 branches, and include the networks headed by Matsunoo-taisha, Kibune Shrine, and Taga-taisha, among others.\n\nThe following six shrine networks alone account for more than 90% of all shrines in Japan.\n\nThe number of branch shrines gives an approximate indication of their religious significance, and neither Ise Shrine nor Izumo-taisha can claim the first place. By far the most numerous are shrines dedicated to Inari, tutelary \"kami\" of agriculture popular all over Japan, which alone constitute almost a third of the total. Inari also protects fishing, commerce and productivity in general. For this reason, many modern Japanese corporations have shrines dedicated to Inari on their premises. Inari shrines are usually very small and therefore easy to maintain, but can also be very large, as in the case of Fushimi Inari Taisha, the head shrine of the network. The \"kami\" is also enshrined in some Buddhist temples.\n\nThe entrance to an Inari shrine is usually marked by one or more vermilion \"torii\" and two white foxes (See photo above). This red color has come to be identified with Inari because of the prevalence of its use among Inari shrines and their \"torii\". The \"kitsune\" statues are at times mistakenly believed to be a form assumed by Inari, and they typically come in pairs, representing a male and a female, although sex is usually not obvious. These fox statues hold a symbolic item in their mouths or beneath a front paw – most often a jewel and a key, but a sheaf of rice, a scroll, or a fox cub are all common. Almost all Inari shrines, no matter how small, will feature at least a pair of these statues, usually flanking or on the altar or in front of the main sanctuary.\n\nA syncretic entity worshiped as both a \"kami\" and a Buddhist \"daibosatsu\", Hachiman is intimately associated with both learning and warriors. In the sixth or seventh century Emperor Ōjin and his mother Empress Jingū came to be identified together with Hachiman. First enshrined at Usa Hachiman-gū in Ōita Prefecture, Hachiman was deeply revered during the Heian period. According to the Kojiki, it was Ōjin who invited Korean and Chinese scholars to Japan, and for this reason he is the patron of writing and learning.\n\nBecause as Emperor Ōjin he was an ancestor of the Minamoto clan, Hachiman became the of the Minamoto samurai clan of Kawachi (Osaka). After Minamoto no Yoritomo became \"shōgun\" and established the Kamakura shogunate, Hachiman's popularity grew and he became by extension the protector of the warrior class the \"shōgun\" had brought to power. For this reason, the \"shintai\" of a Hachiman shrine is usually a stirrup or a bow.\n\nDuring the Japanese medieval period, Hachiman worship spread throughout Japan among not only samurai, but also the peasantry. There are 25,000 shrines in Japan dedicated to him, the second most numerous after those of the Inari network. Usa Hachiman-gū is the network's head shrine together with Iwashimizu Hachiman-gū. However, Hakozaki Shrine and Tsurugaoka Hachiman-gū are historically no less significant shrines, and are more popular.\n\nHeaded by Kyūshū's Munakata Taisha and Itsukushima Shrine, shrines in this network enshrine the , namely Chikishima Hime-no-Kami, Tagitsu Hime-no-Kami, and Tagori Hime-no-Kami. The same three \"kami\" are enshrined elsewhere in the network, sometimes under a different name. However, while Munakata Taisha enshrines all three in separate islands belonging to its complex, branch shrines generally do not; which \"kami\" they enshrine depends on the history of the shrine and the myths tied to it.\n\nThe Tenjin shrine network enshrines 9th-century scholar Sugawara no Michizane. Sugawara had originally been enshrined to placate his spirit, not to be worshiped. Michizane had been unjustly exiled in his life, and it was therefore necessary to somehow placate his rage, believed to be the cause of a plague and other disasters. Kitano Tenman-gū was the first of the shrines dedicated to him. Because in life he was a scholar, he became the \"kami\" of learning, and during the Edo period schools often opened a branch shrine for him. Another important shrine dedicated to him is Dazaifu Tenman-gū.\n\nWhile the ritsuryō legal system was in use, visits by commoners to Ise were forbidden. With its weakening during the Heian period, commoners also started being allowed to the shrine. The growth of the Shinmei shrine network was due to two concomitant causes. During the late Heian period goddess Amaterasu, worshiped initially only at Ise Shrine, started to be re-enshrined in branch shrines in Ise's own possessions through the usual \"kanjō\" mechanism. The first evidence of a Shinmei shrine elsewhere is given by the Azuma Kagami, a Kamakura period text which refers to Amanawa Shinmei-gū's appearance in Kamakura. Amaterasu spread to other parts of the country also because of the so-called phenomenon, the belief that Amaterasu flew to other locations and settled there.\n\nKumano shrines enshrine the three Kumano mountains: Hongū, Shingū, and Nachi (the ). The point of origin of the Kumano cult is the Kumano Sanzan shrine complex, which includes (Wakayama Prefecture, Shingu), Kumano Hongu Taisha (Wakayama Prefecture, Tanabe), and Kumano Nachi Taisha (Wakayama Prefecture, Nachikatsuura). There are more than 3000 Kumano shrines in Japan.\n\nThe following is a diagram illustrating the most important parts of a Shinto shrine.\n\n\nThe general blueprint of a Shinto shrine is Buddhist in origin. The presence of verandas, stone lanterns, and elaborate gates is an example of this influence. The composition of a Shinto shrine is extremely variable, and none of its possible features is necessarily present. Even the \"honden\" can be missing if the shrine worships a nearby natural \"shintai\".\n\nHowever, since its grounds are sacred, they are usually surrounded by a fence made of stone or wood called \"tamagaki\", while access is made possible by an approach called \"sandō\". The entrances themselves are straddled by gates called \"torii\", which are usually the simplest way to identify a Shinto shrine.\nA shrine may include within its grounds several structures, each destined to a different purpose. Among them are the already mentioned \"honden\" or sanctuary, where the \"kami\" are enshrined, the \"heiden\" or hall of offerings, where offers and prayers are presented, and the \"haiden\" or hall of worship, where there may be seats for worshippers. The \"honden\" is the building that contains the \"shintai\", literally, \"the sacred body of the kami\". Of these, only the \"haiden\" is open to the laity. The \"honden\" is usually located behind the \"haiden\" and is often much smaller and unadorned. Other notable shrine features are the \"temizuya\", the fountain where visitors cleanse their hands and mouth, and the , the office which oversees the shrine. Buildings are often adorned by \"chigi\" and \"katsuogi\", variously oriented poles which protrude from their roof (see illustration above).\n\nAs already explained above, before the Meiji Restoration it was common for a Buddhist temple to be built inside or next to a shrine, or vice versa for a shrine to include Buddhist subtemples. If a shrine housed a Buddhist temple, it was called a . Analogously, temples all over Japan adopted tutelary kami () and built to house them. After the forcible separation of Buddhist temples and Shinto shrines (shinbutsu bunri) ordered by the new government in the Meiji period, the connection between the two religions was officially severed, but continued nonetheless in practice and is still visible today.\n\nShrine buildings can have many different basic layouts, usually named either after a famous shrine's \"honden\" (e.g. \"hiyoshi-zukuri\", named after Hiyoshi Taisha), or a structural characteristic (e.g. \"irimoya-zukuri\", after the hip-and gable roof it adopts. The suffix \"-zukuri\" in this case means \"structure\".)\n\nThe \"honden's\" roof is always gabled, and some styles also have a veranda-like aisle called \"hisashi\" (a 1-\"ken\" wide corridor surrounding one or more sides of the core of a shrine or temple).\nAmong the factors involved in the classification, important are the presence or absence of:\n\nProportions are also important. A building of a given style often must have certain proportions measured in \"ken\" (the distance between pillars, a quantity variable from one shrine to another or even within the same shrine).\n\nThe oldest styles are the \"tsumairi\" \"shinmei-zukuri\", \"taisha-zukuri\", and \"sumiyoshi-zukuri\", believed to predate the arrival of Buddhism.\n\nThe two most common are the \"hirairi\" \"nagare-zukuri\" and the \"tsumairi\" \"kasuga-zukuri\". Larger, more important shrines tend to have unique styles.\n\nThe following are the two most common shrine styles in Japan.\n\nThe or is a style characterized by a very asymmetrical gabled roof ( in Japanese) projecting outwards on the non-gabled side, above the main entrance, to form a portico (see photo). This is the feature which gives the style its name, the most common among shrines all over the country. Sometimes the basic layout consisting of an elevated partially surrounded by a veranda called \"hisashi\" (all under the same roof) is modified by the addition of a room in front of the entrance. The \"honden\" varies in roof ridge length from 1 to 11 \"ken\", but is never 6 or 8 \"ken\". The most common sizes are 1 and 3 \"ken\". The oldest shrine in Japan, Uji's Ujigami Shrine, has a \"honden\" of this type. Its external dimensions are 5x3 \"ken\", but internally it is composed of three measuring 1 \"ken\" each.\n\n as a style takes its name from Kasuga Taisha's \"honden\". It is characterized by the extreme smallness of the building, just 1x1 \"ken\" in size. In Kasuga Taisha's case, this translates in 1.9 m x 2.6 m. The roof is gabled with a single entrance at the gabled end, decorated with \"chigi\" and \"katsuogi\", covered with cypress bark and curved upwards at the eaves. Supporting structures are painted vermillion, while the plank walls are white.\n\nAfter the \"Nagare-zukuri\" (see above), this is the most common style, with most instances in the Kansai region around Nara.\n\nThe following four styles predate the arrival in Japan of Buddhism.\n\nThis style is rare, but historically important. It is also unique in that the \"honden\", normally the very center of a shrine, is missing. It is believed shrines of this type are reminiscent of what shrines were like in prehistorical times. The first shrines had no \"honden\" because the \"shintai\", or object of worship, was the mountain on which they stood. An extant example is Nara's Ōmiwa Shrine, which still has no \"honden\". An area near the \"haiden\" (hall of worship), sacred and taboo, replaces it for worship. Another prominent example of this style is Futarasan Shrine near Nikkō, whose \"shintai\" is Mount Nantai. For details, see Birth and evolution of Shinto shrines above.\n\n is an ancient style typical of, and most common at, Ise Grand Shrine, the holiest of Shinto shrines. It is most common in Mie prefecture. Characterized by an extreme simplicity, its basic features can be seen in Japanese architecture from the Kofun period (250–538 C.E.) onwards and it is considered the pinnacle of Japanese traditional architecture. Built in planed, unfinished wood, the \"honden\" is either 3x2 \"ken\" or 1x1\"ken\" in size, has a raised floor, a gabled roof with an entry on one the non-gabled sides, no upward curve at the eaves, and decorative logs called \"chigi\" and \"katsuogi\" protruding from the roof's ridge. The oldest extant example is Nishina Shinmei Shrine.\n\n takes its name from Sumiyoshi Taisha's \"honden\" in Ōsaka. The building is 4 \"ken\" wide and 2 \"ken\" deep, and has an entrance under the gable. Its interior is divided in two sections, one at the front () and one at the back () with a single entrance at the front. Construction is simple, but the pillars are painted in vermilion and the walls in white.\n\nThe style is supposed to have its origin in old palace architecture Another example of this style is Sumiyoshi Jinja, part of the Sumiyoshi Sanjin complex in Fukuoka Prefecture. In both cases, as in many others, there is no veranda.\n\n is the oldest shrine style, takes its name from Izumo Taisha and, like Ise Grand Shrine's, has \"chigi\" and \"katsuogi\", plus archaic features like gable-end pillars and a single central pillar (\"shin no mihashira\"). Because its floor is raised on stilts, it is believed to have its origin in raised-floor granaries similar to those found in Toro, Shizuoka prefecture.\n\nThe \"honden\" normally has a 2x2 \"ken\" footprint (12.46x12.46 m in Izumo Taisha's case), with an entrance on the gabled end. The stairs to the honden are covered by a cypress bark roof. The oldest extant example of the style is Kamosu Jinja's \"honden\" in Shimane prefecture, built in the 16th century.\n\nMany other architectural styles exist, most of them rare. For details, see .\n\nShrine nomenclature has changed considerably since the Meiji period. Until then, the vast majority of shrines were small and had no permanent priest. With very few exceptions, they were just a part of a temple-shrine complex controlled by Buddhist clergy. They usually enshrined a local tutelary \"kami\", so they were called with the name of the \"kami\" followed by terms like \"gongen\"; \"\", short for \"ubusuna no kami\", or guardian deity of one's birthplace; or . The term , now the most common, was rare. Examples of this kind of pre-Meiji use are and Kanda Myōjin.\n\nToday, the term \"Shinto shrine\" in English is used in opposition to \"Buddhist temple\" to mirror in English the distinction made in Japanese between Shinto and Buddhist religious structures. This single English word however translates several non equivalent Japanese words, including as in Yasukuni Jinja; as in Tsubaki Ōkami Yashiro; as in Watarai no Miya; as in Iwashimizu Hachiman-gū; as in Meiji Jingū; as in Izumo Taisha; ; and .\n\nShrine names are descriptive, and a difficult problem in dealing with them is understanding exactly what they mean. Although there is a lot of variation in their composition, it is usually possible to identify in them two parts. The first is the shrine's name proper, or , the second is the so-called , or \"title\".\n\nThe most common \"meishō\" is the location where the shrine stands, as for example in the case of Ise Jingū, the most sacred of shrines, which is located in the city of Ise, Mie prefecture.\n\nVery often the \"meishō\" will be the name of the \"kami\" enshrined. An Inari Shrine for example is a shrine dedicated to \"kami\" Inari. Analogously, a Kumano Shrine is a shrine that enshrines the three Kumano mountains. A Hachiman Shrine enshrines \"kami\" Hachiman. Tokyo's Meiji Shrine enshrines the Meiji Emperor. The name can also have other origins, often unknown or unclear.\n\nThe second part of the name defines the status of the shrine.\n\nThese names are not equivalent in terms of prestige: a \"taisha\" is more prestigious than a \"-gū\", which in turn is more important than a \"jinja\".\n\nShrines that are part of a World Heritage Site are set in bold.\n\nThe or is a priest responsible for the shrine's maintenance and for officiating ceremonies. These two terms were not always synonyms. Originally a \"kannushi\" was a holy man who could work miracles and who, thanks to purificatory rites, could work as an intermediary between \"kami\" and man, but later the term evolved to being synonymous with \"shinshoku\", that is, a man who works at a shrine and holds religious ceremonies there.\n\nTraditionally, most shrines did not have a \"kannushi\" and were maintained by a committee of parishioners called Ujiko (, clan children). In a \"jinguji\", Buddhist monks had of course to maintain both their shrine and their temple.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49277854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49277854", "title": "Sikhism in Sweden", "text": "Sikhism in Sweden\n\nSikhs in Sweden are a very small religious minority, there are approximately 1000-1500, most of which are settled in Stockholm and Gothenburg, each of which has two gurdwaras.\n\nGurdwaras in Sweden include:\n"}
{"id": "43440181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43440181", "title": "Soma Thera", "text": "Soma Thera\n\nKotahene Soma Maha Thera (December 23, 1898 - February 23, 1960), born as Victor Emmanuel Perera Pulle in Kotahena, Colombo\n, was a Theravada Buddhist monk, translator and missionary.\n\nSoma Thera was raised as a Sinhalese Catholic and received his education at the Catholic St. Benedict's College in Kotahena, but became a Buddhist in his teenage years after reading the Dhammapada.\n\nIn 1934, he went to Japan with his friend G.S. Prelis (later ordained as Kheminda Thera) and translated the Chinese version of the Vimuttimagga into English, which was published as \"The Path of Freedom\".\nIn 1936, both Victor Perera and Prelis went to Burma and received the higher ordination as Theravada Buddhist monks on November 6, 1936 in Moulmein under the meditation teacher Jetavana Sayadaw.\n\nDuring World War II, Soma Thera stayed at the Island Hermitage with Kheminda Thera and Nyanaponika Thera.\n\nDespite suffering from asthma, being a member of the Buddhist Mission of Goodwill he participated in a mission to India in 1940.\nSoma Thera took part in another mission to Germany in 1957, sponsored by the German Dharmaduta Society, during which the society aqcuired \"Das Buddhistische Haus\" (\"The Buddhist House\") in Berlin, founded by Dr. Paul Dahlke.\nSoma Thera published many books with regard to Buddhism and was an author of the Buddhist Publication Society, writing several booklets of the \"Bodhi Leaves\" and \"The Wheel\" series.\n\nSoma Thera died of pulmonary thrombosis in 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "20546309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20546309", "title": "Sumiyoshi-zukuri", "text": "Sumiyoshi-zukuri\n\nAncient shrines were constructed according to the style of dwellings (Izumo Taisha) or storehouses (Ise Grand Shrine). The buildings had gabled roofs, raised floors, plank walls, and were thatched with reed or covered with hinoki cypress bark. Such early shrines did not include a space for worship. Three important forms of ancient shrine architectural styles exist: \"taisha-zukuri\", \"shinmei-zukuri\" and \"sumiyoshi-zukuri\" They are exemplified by Izumo Taisha, Nishina Shinmei Shrine and Sumiyoshi Taisha respectively and date to before 552. According to the tradition of \", the buildings or shrines were faithfully rebuilt at regular intervals adhering to the original design. In this manner, ancient styles have been replicated through the centuries to the present day.\n\nThe \"honden\" on the grounds at Sumiyoshi Taisha has been designated as a national treasure on the grounds that it is the oldest example of this style of architecture.\nThe four identical \"honden\" buildings that compose it are 4 \"ken\" wide and 2 \"ken\" deep and have an entrance under one of the gables (a characteristic called . The roof is simple, doesn't curve upwards at the eaves and is decorated with purely ornamental poles called \"chigi\" (vertical) and \"katsuogi\" (horizontal). The building is surrounded by a fence called , in its turn surrounded by another called (see image in the gallery). There is no veranda, and a short stairway leads to the door.\n\nThe interior is divided in two sections, one at the front () and one at the back () with a single entrance at the front (see floor plan in the gallery). The structure is simple, but brightly colored: supporting pillars are painted in vermilion and walls in white. \n\nThis style is supposed to have its origin in old palace architecture Another example of this style is Sumiyoshi Jinja, part of the Sumiyoshi Sanjin complex in Fukuoka Prefecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "43068371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43068371", "title": "Udjahorresnet", "text": "Udjahorresnet\n\nUdjaḥorresnet (or Wedjaḥorresnet, and many other variants) was an ancient Egyptian high official who lived between the end of the 26th Dynasty and the beginning of the 27th Dynasty. He is mainly known for his efforts in promoting the Egyptian customs to the early Achaemenid kings of the 27th Dynasty.\n\nWe know about his remarkable and controversial career thanks to his autobiography, inscribed on a well known statue depicting him; the statue, commonly called \"Naoforo vaticano\" (Italian for \"Vatican naophoros\") was originally placed in the temple of Neith at Sais likely in Year 3 of Darius I (c.519 BCE) and is now exhibited inside the Vatican Museums (more precisely in the Museo Gregoriano Egizio) of Rome.\n\nEarly in his career, during the reigns of pharaohs Amasis II and Psamtik III, Udjahorresnet was a commander of ships (admiral), a physician and a priest of Neith in Sais. After the defeat at Pelusium in 525 BCE and the subsequent conquest of Egypt by Cambyses II, he eventually was relieved from his military duties.\n\nNevertheless, his influence grew unexpectedly under the reign of the foreign kings, Cambyses and his successor Darius I: Udjahorresnet apparently became a sort of collaborationist for the Persians, managing to enter in the royal court as chancellor and chief physician. From his statue is known that he used his influence to make Cambyses acknowledge and respect Egyptian customs. Acculturated by Udjahorresnet, the pharaoh paid homage to the goddess Neith at Sais, not before having driven out many Persian squatters who had settled within the temple; Udjahorresnet himself composed Cambyses' pharaonic titulary, calling him the Horus \"Smatawy\" (”He who unifies the Two Lands”) and the King of Upper and Lower Egypt \"Mesutire\" (“Offspring of Ra”).<br>\nAfter Cambyses' death (522 BCE), Udjahorresnet's mission continued with Darius I: in fact, he even escorted Darius on his return to Susa and before returning to Egypt, he persuaded the new pharaoh to entrust to him the restoration of \"Per-ankh\" (“House of Life”), a well known educational and cultural institution in ancient Egypt.\n\nUdjahorresnet probably died later during Darius' reign. His huge shaft tomb at Abusir was excavated between 1980 and 1993, and found looted in antiquity. It is still matter of debate if Udjahorresnet was indeed buried here or not; if not, it is possible that he died in Persia, and his corpse buried here instead of being repatriated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38085186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38085186", "title": "Varaz Grigor", "text": "Varaz Grigor\n\nVaraz Grigor - was the Mihranid king of Caucasian Albania from 628 until his death in 638, he was Prince of Gardman before his baptism. He was acknowledged as king of Caucasian Albania by Heraclius during his invasion of Caucasus. He was converted to Christianity from Zoroastrianism by Catholicos Viro. He was succeeded by his second son Javanshir.\n\n"}
