{"id": "3037547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3037547", "title": "980 Anacostia", "text": "980 Anacostia\n\n980 Anacostia is a minor planet orbiting the Sun that was discovered by American astronomer George Henry Peters on November 21, 1921. The name recognizes the Anacostia River and an historic neighborhood of the same name in the city of Washington D.C.\n\nMeasurements using the adaptive optics system at the W. M. Keck Observatory give a diameter of 70 ± 6 km. This is 23% smaller than the diameter estimated from the IRAS observatory data. The size ratio between the major and minor axes is 1.09.\n\nPolarimetric study of this asteroid reveals anomalous properties that suggests the regolith consists of a mixture of low and high albedo material. This may have been caused by fragmentation of an asteroid substrate with the spectral properties of CO3/CV3 carbonaceous chondrites.\n\n"}
{"id": "17368845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17368845", "title": "A695 road", "text": "A695 road\n\nA695 road is a road in Northern England linking Newcastle upon Tyne, Tyne and Wear, with Hexham, Northumberland. It was part of the proposed A695(M) Shields Road Motorway.\n"}
{"id": "246018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246018", "title": "Alluvial fan", "text": "Alluvial fan\n\nAn alluvial fan is a fan- or cone-shaped deposit of sediment crossed and built up by streams. If a fan is built up by debris flows it is properly called a debris cone or colluvial fan. These flows come from a single point source at the apex of the fan, and over time move to occupy many positions on the fan surface. Fans are typically found where a canyon draining from mountainous terrain emerges out onto a flatter plain, and especially along fault-bounded mountain fronts.\n\nA convergence of neighboring alluvial fans into a single apron of deposits against a slope is called a bajada.\n\nAs a stream's gradient decreases, it drops coarse-grained material. It makes swagger of the channel and forces it to change direction and gradually build up a slightly mounded or shallow conical fan shape. The deposits are usually poorly sorted. This fan shape can also be explained with a thermodynamic justification: the system of sediment introduced at the apex of the fan will tend to a state which minimizes the sum of the transport energy involved in moving the sediment and the gravitational potential of material in the fan. There will be iso-transport energy lines forming concentric arcs about the discharge point at the apex of the fan. Thus the material will tend to be deposited equally about these lines, forming the characteristic fan shape.\n\nAlluvial fans are often found in desert areas often subjected to periodic flash floods from nearby thunderstorms in local hills. The typical watercourse in an arid climate has a large, funnel-shaped basin at the top, leading to a narrow defile, which opens out into an alluvial fan at the bottom. Multiple braided streams are usually present and active during water flows.\n\nPhreatophytes are plants that are often concentrated at the base of alluvial fans. They have long tap roots to reach water that has seeped through the fan and hit an impermeable layer, sometimes collecting in springs and seeps. These stands of shrubs cling to the soil at their bases and often form islands of habitat for many animals as the wind blows the sand around the bushes away.\n\nAlluvial fans also develop in wetter climates. In Nepal the Koshi River has built a megafan covering some below its exit from Himalayan foothills onto the nearly level plains where the river traverses into India before joining the Ganges. \nAlong the upper Koshi tributaries, tectonic forces elevate the Himalayas several millimeters annually. Uplift is approximately in equilibrium with erosion, so the river annually carries some 100 million cubic meters (3.5 billion cu ft) of sediment as it exits the mountains. Deposition of this magnitude over millions of years is more than sufficient to account for the megafan.\n\nAll along the interface between the Indo-Gangetic Plain and the Himalaya in India, Pakistan, Nepal and Bhutan the outermost, lowest Siwalik foothills are built of poorly consolidated sedimentary rocks that have eroded into a wide, continuous alluvial apron called Bhabar in Hindi and Nepali. Despite human overpopulation on the plains, this bhabar zone is highly malarial and has remained largely uninhabited.\n\nIn North America, streams flowing into California's Central Valley have deposited smaller but still extensive alluvial fans, such as that of the Kings River flowing out of the Sierra Nevada which creates a low divide, turning the south end of the San Joaquin Valley into an endorheic basin without a connection to the ocean.\n\nAlluvial fans are subject to flooding and can be even more dangerous than the upstream canyons that feed them. Their slightly convex perpendicular surfaces cause water to spread widely until there is no zone of refuge. If the gradient is steep, active transport of materials down the fan creates a moving substrate that is inhospitable to travel on foot or wheels. But as the gradient diminishes downslope, water comes down from above faster than it can flow away downstream, and may pond to hazardous depths.\n\nIn the case of the Koshi River, the huge sediment load and megafan's slightly convex transverse surface conspire against engineering efforts to contain peak flows inside manmade embankments. In August 2008 high monsoon flows breached the embankment, diverting most of the river into an unprotected ancient channel and across surrounding lands with high population density. Over a million people were rendered homeless, about a thousand lost their lives and thousands of hectares of crops were destroyed. The Koshi is known as the \"Sorrow of Bihar\" for contributing disproportionately to India's death tolls in flooding, which exceed those of all countries except Bangladesh.\n\nAlluvial fans are also found on Mars descending from some crater rims over their flatter floors.\nThree alluvial fans have been found in Saheki Crater on Mars. These fans confirmed fluvial flow on Mars and further supported the theory that liquid water was once present in some form on the Martian surface. In addition, observations of fans in Gale crater made by satellites from orbit have now been confirmed by the discovery of fluvial sediments by the Curiosity rover.\n\nAlluvial fans have been observed by the Cassini-Huygens mission on Titan using the Cassini orbiter's synthetic aperture radar (SAR) instrument. These fans are more common in the drier mid-latitudes at the end of methane/ethane rivers where it is thought that frequent wetting and drying occur due to precipitation, much like arid fans on Earth. Radar imaging suggests that fan material is most likely composed of round grains of water ice or solid organic compounds about two centimetres in diameter.\n\n"}
{"id": "33430008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33430008", "title": "Bellona Platform", "text": "Bellona Platform\n\nThe Bellona Platform is a submarine geological feature encompassing the Chesterfield Islands () and Bellona Reefs () west of New Caledonia. It was once a landmass, which became mostly submerged when sea levels rose at the end of the Last Glacial Maximum, 20,000 years ago. It might have played a role in the spread of flora and fauna, including humans, in the southwest Pacific.\n"}
{"id": "1601649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601649", "title": "Bili Forest", "text": "Bili Forest\n\nThe Bili Forest is located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in Central Africa in the Bas-Uele District. It lies between the Ubangui River to the north and the Uele River to the south, and is named after the small nearby town of Bili (coordinates 4°9'N 25°10'E) which is about 200 km east of Bondo and 250 km north of Buta. Bondo and Bili are accessible only by earth tracks impassable after rain (the Vicicongo narrow gauge railway which served the region is defunct). The region is very unstable and virtually lawless, due to a lack of governmental services as the country recovers slowly from civil warfare. Human encroachment into the region, other than annual burning of the savannahs, is minimal but hunting is prevalent.\n\nThe forest comprises a complex mosaic habitat, consisting of savannah, savannah-woodland, regenerating forest and gallery forest. The area is rich in African fauna typifying both savannah and forest habitats, including: elephants, lions, hyenas, leopards, giant forest hogs, giant pangolin, baboons, grey-cheeked mangabeys, red-tailed guenons, and buffalo.\n\nIn addition, a population of great apes living in the Bili Forest has intrigued experts. Known as the 'Bili apes' or 'Bondo mystery apes', they appear to blend characteristics of chimpanzees and gorillas. Initial results from mitochondrial DNA analysis indicate that they are chimpanzees.\n\nThere is a very serious problem of bush meat poaching in the Bili Forest, affecting the elephant and chimpanzee populations. If the forest's chimpanzees and their habitat are to be protected effectively, a serious conservation project is imperative.\n\n"}
{"id": "99358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99358", "title": "Biogeography", "text": "Biogeography\n\nBiogeography is the study of the distribution of species and ecosystems in geographic space and through geological time. Organisms and biological communities often vary in a regular fashion along geographic gradients of latitude, elevation, isolation and habitat area. Phytogeography is the branch of biogeography that studies the distribution of plants. Zoogeography is the branch that studies distribution of animals.\n\nKnowledge of spatial variation in the numbers and types of organisms is as vital to us today as it was to our early human ancestors, as we adapt to heterogeneous but geographically predictable environments. Biogeography is an integrative field of inquiry that unites concepts and information from ecology, evolutionary biology, geology, and physical geography.\n\nModern biogeographic research combines information and ideas from many fields, from the physiological and ecological constraints on organismal dispersal to geological and climatological phenomena operating at global spatial scales and evolutionary time frames.\n\nThe short-term interactions within a habitat and species of organisms describe the ecological application of biogeography. Historical biogeography describes the long-term, evolutionary periods of time for broader classifications of organisms. Early scientists, beginning with Carl Linnaeus, contributed to the development of biogeography as a science. Beginning in the mid-18th century, Europeans explored the world and discovered the biodiversity of life.\n\nThe scientific theory of biogeography grows out of the work of Alexander von Humboldt (1769–1859), Hewett Cottrell Watson (1804–1881), Alphonse de Candolle (1806–1893), Alfred Russel Wallace (1823–1913), Philip Lutley Sclater (1829–1913) and other biologists and explorers.\n\nThe patterns of species distribution across geographical areas can usually be explained through a combination of historical factors such as: speciation, extinction, continental drift, and glaciation. Through observing the geographic distribution of species, we can see associated variations in sea level, river routes, habitat, and river capture. Additionally, this science considers the geographic constraints of landmass areas and isolation, as well as the available ecosystem energy supplies.\n\nOver periods of ecological changes, biogeography includes the study of plant and animal species in: their past and/or present living \"refugium\" habitat; their interim living sites; and/or their survival locales. As writer David Quammen put it, \"...biogeography does more than ask \"Which species?\" and \"Where\". It also asks \"Why?\" and, what is sometimes more crucial, \"Why not?\".\"\n\nModern biogeography often employs the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), to understand the factors affecting organism distribution, and to predict future trends in organism distribution.\nOften mathematical models and GIS are employed to solve ecological problems that have a spatial aspect to them.\n\nBiogeography is most keenly observed on the world's islands. These habitats are often much more manageable areas of study because they are more condensed than larger ecosystems on the mainland. Islands are also ideal locations because they allow scientists to look at habitats that new invasive species have only recently colonized and can observe how they disperse throughout the island and change it. They can then apply their understanding to similar but more complex mainland habitats. Islands are very diverse in their biomes, ranging from the tropical to arctic climates. This diversity in habitat allows for a wide range of species study in different parts of the world.\n\nOne scientist who recognized the importance of these geographic locations was Charles Darwin, who remarked in his journal \"The Zoology of Archipelagoes will be well worth examination\". Two chapters in \"On the Origin of Species\" were devoted to geographical distribution.\n\nThe first discoveries that contributed to the development of biogeography as a science began in the mid-18th century, as Europeans explored the world and discovered the biodiversity of life. During the 18th century most views on the world were shaped around religion and for many natural theologists, the bible. Carl Linnaeus, in the mid-18th century, initiated the ways to classify organisms through his exploration of undiscovered territories. When he noticed that species were not as perpetual as he believed, he developed the Mountain Explanation to explain the distribution of biodiversity. When Noah's ark landed on Mount Ararat and the waters receded, the animals dispersed throughout different elevations on the mountain. This showed different species in different climates proving species were not constant. Linnaeus' findings set a basis for ecological biogeography. Through his strong beliefs in Christianity, he was inspired to classify the living world, which then gave way to additional accounts of secular views on geographical distribution. He argued that the structure of an animal was very closely related to its physical surroundings. This was important to a George Louis Buffon's rival theory of distribution.\n\nClosely after Linnaeus, Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon observed shifts in climate and how species spread across the globe as a result. He was the first to see different groups of organisms in different regions of the world. Buffon saw similarities between some regions which led him to believe that at one point continents were connected and then water separated them and caused differences in species. His hypotheses were described by his books, Histoire Naturelle, and Générale et Particulière, in which he argued that varying geographical regions would have different forms of life. This was inspired by his observations comparing the Old and New World, as he determined distinct variations of species from the two regions. Buffon believed there was a single species creation event, and that different regions of the world were homes for varying species, which is an alternate view than that of Linnaeus. Buffon's law eventually became a principle of biogeography by explaining how similar environments were habitats for comparable types of organisms. Buffon also studied fossils which led him to believe that the earth was over tens of thousands of years old, and that humans had not lived there long in comparison to the age of the earth.\n\nFollowing this period of exploration came the Age of Enlightenment in Europe, which attempted to explain the patterns of biodiversity observed by Buffon and Linnaeus. At the end of the 18th century, Alexander von Humboldt, known as the \"founder of plant geography\", developed the concept of physique generale to demonstrate the unity of science and how species fit together. As one of the first to contribute empirical data to the science of biogeography through his travel as an explorer, he observed differences in climate and vegetation. The earth was divided into regions which he defined as tropical, temperate, and arctic and within these regions there were similar forms of vegetation. This ultimately enabled him to create the isotherm, which allowed scientists to see patterns of life within different climates. He contributed his observations to findings of botanical geography by previous scientists, and sketched this description of both the biotic and abiotic features of the earth in his book, \"Cosmos\".\n\nAugustin de Candolle contributed to the field of biogeography as he observed species competition and the several differences that influenced the discovery of the diversity of life. He was a Swiss botanist and created the first Laws of Botanical Nomenclature in his work, Prodromus. He discussed plant distribution and his theories eventually had a great impact on Charles Darwin, who was inspired to consider species adaptations and evolution after learning about botanical geography. De Candolle was the first to describe the differences between the small-scale and large-scale distribution patterns of organisms around the globe.\n\nIn the 19th century, several additional scientists contributed new theories to further develop the concept of biogeography. Charles Lyell, being one of the first contributors in the 19th century, developed the Theory of Uniformitarianism after studying fossils. This theory explained how the world was not created by one sole catastrophic event, but instead from numerous creation events and locations. Uniformitarianism also introduced the idea that the Earth was actually significantly older than was previously accepted. Using this knowledge, Lyell concluded that it was possible for species to go extinct. Since he noted that earth’s climate changes, he realized that species distribution must also change accordingly. Lyell argued that climate changes complemented vegetation changes, thus connecting the environmental surroundings to varying species. This largely influenced Charles Darwin in his development of the theory of evolution.\n\nCharles Darwin was a natural theologist who studied around the world, and most importantly in the Galapagos Islands. Darwin introduced the idea of natural selection, as he theorized against previously accepted ideas that species were static or unchanging. His contributions to biogeography and the theory of evolution were different from those of other explorers of his time, because he developed a mechanism to describe the ways that species changed. His influential ideas include the development of theories regarding the struggle for existence and natural selection. Darwin's theories started a biological segment to biogeography and empirical studies, which enabled future scientists to develop ideas about the geographical distribution of organisms around the globe.\n\nAlfred Russel Wallace studied the distribution of flora and fauna in the Amazon Basin and the Malay Archipelago in the mid-19th century. His research was essential to the further development of biogeography, and he was later nicknamed the \"father of Biogeography\". Wallace conducted fieldwork researching the habits, breeding and migration tendencies, and feeding behavior of thousands of species. He studied butterfly and bird distributions in comparison to the presence or absence of geographical barriers. His observations led him to conclude that the number of organisms present in a community was dependent on the amount of food resources in the particular habitat. Wallace believed species were dynamic by responding to biotic and abiotic factors. He and Philip Sclater saw biogeography as a source of support for the theory of evolution as they used Darwin's conclusion to explain how biogeography was similar to a record of species inheritance. Key findings, such as the sharp difference in fauna either side of the Wallace Line, and the sharp difference that existed between North and South America prior to their relatively recent faunal interchange, can only be understood in this light. Otherwise, the field of biogeography would be seen as a purely descriptive one.\n\nMoving on to the 20th century, Alfred Wegener introduced the Theory of Continental Drift in 1912, though it was not widely accepted until the 1960s. This theory was revolutionary because it changed the way that everyone thought about species and their distribution around the globe. The theory explained how continents were formerly joined together in one large landmass, Pangea, and slowly drifted apart due to the movement of the plates below Earth's surface. The evidence for this theory is in the geological similarities between varying locations around the globe, fossil comparisons from different continents, and the jigsaw puzzle shape of the landmasses on Earth. Though Wegener did not know the mechanism of this concept of Continental Drift, this contribution to the study of biogeography was significant in the way that it shed light on the importance of environmental and geographic similarities or differences as a result of climate and other pressures on the planet. Importantly, late in his career Wegener recognised that testing his theory required measurement of continental movement rather than inference from fossils species distributions.\n\nThe publication of \"The Theory of Island Biogeography\" by Robert MacArthur and E.O. Wilson in 1967 showed that the species richness of an area could be predicted in terms of such factors as habitat area, immigration rate and extinction rate. This added to the long-standing interest in island biogeography. The application of island biogeography theory to habitat fragments spurred the development of the fields of conservation biology and landscape ecology.\n\nClassic biogeography has been expanded by the development of molecular systematics, creating a new discipline known as phylogeography. This development allowed scientists to test theories about the origin and dispersal of populations, such as island endemics. For example, while classic biogeographers were able to speculate about the origins of species in the Hawaiian Islands, phylogeography allows them to test theories of relatedness between these populations and putative source populations in Asia and North America.\n\nBiogeography continues as a point of study for many life sciences and geography students worldwide, however it may be under different broader titles within institutions such as ecology or evolutionary biology.\n\nIn recent years, one of the most important and consequential developments in biogeography has been to show how multiple organisms, including mammals like monkeys and reptiles like lizards, overcame barriers such as large oceans that many biogeographers formerly believed were impossible to cross. See also Oceanic dispersal.\n\nBiogeography now incorporates many different fields including but not limited to physical geography, geology, botany and plant biology, zoology, and general biology. A biogeographer's main focus is on what environmental factors and what the influence of humans do to the distribution of the specific species of study. In terms of applications of biogeography as a science today, technological advances have allowed satellite imaging and processing of the Earth. Two main types of satellite imaging that are important within modern biogeography are Global Production Efficiency Model (GLO-PEM) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS). GLO-PEM uses satellite-imaging gives \"repetitive, spatially contiguous, and time specific observations of vegetation\". These observations are on a global scale. GIS can show certain processes on the earth’s surface like whale locations, sea surface temperatures, and bathymetry. Current scientists also use coral reefs to delve into the history of biogeography through the fossilized reefs.\n\nPaleobiogeography goes one step further to include paleogeographic data and considerations of plate tectonics. Using molecular analyses and corroborated by fossils, it has been possible to demonstrate that perching birds evolved first in the region of Australia or the adjacent Antarctic (which at that time lay somewhat further north and had a temperate climate). From there, they spread to the other Gondwanan continents and Southeast Asia – the part of Laurasia then closest to their origin of dispersal – in the late Paleogene, before achieving a global distribution in the early Neogene. Not knowing that at the time of dispersal, the Indian Ocean was much narrower than it is today, and that South America was closer to the Antarctic, one would be hard pressed to explain the presence of many \"ancient\" lineages of perching birds in Africa, as well as the mainly South American distribution of the suboscines.\n\nPaleobiogeography also helps constrain hypotheses on the timing of biogeographic events such as vicariance and geodispersal, and provides unique information on the formation of regional biotas. For example, data from species-level phylogenetic and biogeographic studies tell us that the Amazonian fish fauna accumulated in increments over a period of tens of millions of years, principally by means of allopatric speciation, and in an arena extending over most of the area of tropical South America (Albert & Reis 2011). In other words, unlike some of the well-known insular faunas (Galapagos finches, Hawaiian drosophilid flies, African rift lake cichlids), the species-rich Amazonian ichthyofauna is not the result of recent adaptive radiations.\n\nFor freshwater organisms, landscapes are divided naturally into discrete drainage basins by watersheds, episodically isolated and reunited by erosional processes. In regions like the Amazon Basin (or more generally Greater Amazonia, the Amazon basin, Orinoco basin, and Guianas) with an exceptionally low (flat) topographic relief, the many waterways have had a highly reticulated history over geological time. In such a context, stream capture is an important factor affecting the evolution and distribution of freshwater organisms. Stream capture occurs when an upstream portion of one river drainage is diverted to the downstream portion of an adjacent basin. This can happen as a result of tectonic uplift (or subsidence), natural damming created by a landslide, or headward or lateral erosion of the watershed between adjacent basins.\n\nBiogeography is a synthetic science, related to geography, biology, soil science, geology, climatology, ecology and evolution.\n\nSome fundamental concepts in biogeography include:\n\nThe study of comparative biogeography can follow two main lines of investigation:\n\nThere are many types of biogeographic units used in biogeographic regionalisation schemes, as there are many criteria (species composition, physiognomy, ecological aspects) and hierarchization schemes: biogeographic realms (or ecozones), bioregions (\"sensu stricto\"), ecoregions, zoogeographical regions, floristic regions, vegetation types, biomes, etc.\n\nThe terms biogeographic unit, biogeographic area or bioregion \"sensu lato\", can be used for these categories, regardless of rank.\n\nRecently, an International Code of Area Nomenclature was proposed for biogeography.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18174111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18174111", "title": "Bishop of Bermuda", "text": "Bishop of Bermuda\n\nThe Bishop of Bermuda is an episcopal title given to the ordinary of the Anglican Church of Bermuda, one of six extra-provincial Anglican churches within the Church of England overseen by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The present Bishop is Nick Dill.\n\nFrom the date of official colonisation in 1612 (three years after Bermuda had been settled by the wreck of the Sea Venture, the survivors of which included the Reverend Richard Buck, who carried out the first Church of England services in Bermuda) until 1825, the nine parishes of the Church of England in Bermuda had rarely enough ministers, and there was no local Bishop. From 1825 to 1839, Bermuda was attached to the Diocese of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island. The Synod of the Church of England in Bermuda was formed in 1879, and a Diocese of Bermuda became separate from the Diocese of Newfoundland, but they continued to be grouped under the \"Bishop of Newfoundland and Bermuda\" until 1919, when Newfoundland and Bermuda each received its own Bishop.\n"}
{"id": "8705196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8705196", "title": "Commemorative coins of France", "text": "Commemorative coins of France\n\nWhile a large number of medals have been issued by the government of France over the centuries, legal tender commemorative coinage only began in 1982, with the issue of ten franc piece commemorating Léon Gambetta. Soon there were other issues, and by the 1990s, there was a profusion of silver coins commemorating many events.\n\n"}
{"id": "41008669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41008669", "title": "Denmark Strait cataract", "text": "Denmark Strait cataract\n\nThe Denmark Strait cataract is an underwater waterfall found on the western side of the Denmark Strait in the Atlantic Ocean. It is the world's highest underwater waterfall, with water falling almost 3,505 metres (11,500 feet).\n\nIt is formed by the temperature differential between the water masses either side of the Denmark Strait, the eastern side being much colder than the western. Due to the different densities in the masses caused by this temperature difference, when the two masses meet along the top ridge of the strait, the colder, denser water flows downwards and underneath the warmer, lighter water, thus creating a downward flow of water, or waterfall.\n\nIt is thought that the Denmark Strait cataract has a flow rate exceeding 175 million cubic feet (5.0 million cubic meters) per second, making it 350 times as voluminous as the extinct Guaíra Falls on the border of Brazil and Paraguay, which was once thought to be the most voluminous waterfall on Earth, which was 12 times more voluminous than Victoria Falls.\n\nThe waterfall was jokingly called The Alan Davies Cascade, after the regular panelist on the television quiz show \"QI\", in response to host Stephen Fry's mentioning its apparent lack of a name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1549270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549270", "title": "Downtown circulator", "text": "Downtown circulator\n\nIn the United States, a downtown circulator is a road, bus or tram system to distribute traffic or people through a downtown area. \n\nSpecific examples include:\n\nA circulator bus is a bus serving an area confined to a specific locale, such as a downtown area (downtown circulator) or suburban neighborhood, with connections to major traffic corridors.\n\n"}
{"id": "57245118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57245118", "title": "Eperjesi", "text": "Eperjesi\n\nEperjesi is a Hungarian-language surname. It is a toponymic surname literally meaning \"one from Eperjes (Prešov)\". Notable people with this surname include:\n"}
{"id": "57526602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57526602", "title": "George Benneh", "text": "George Benneh\n\nGeorge Benneh (born 6 March 1934) is a Ghanaian academic and university administrator who served as the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ghana, Legon from 1992 to 1996. He was a Professor and later an Emeritus Professor of Geography and Resource Development at the same university. Between 1979 and 1980, George Benneh was also the Commissioner and Minister of Lands, Natural Resources, Fuel and Power. He also served as the Finance minister from 1980 to 1981 under Hilla Limann during the Third Republic.\n\nGeorge Benneh was born on 6 March 1934 in the small town of Jamdede, about a kilometre from Berekum in the Brong-Ahafo Region of Ghana. During his childhood, he spent his school vacations helping out on a cocoa farm his family owned at Prusu. On the way to the farm early in the mornings, he and his family stopped along the way to have a palm soup meal as the journey was long.\n\nRaised a Catholic, Benneh had his primary and middle education at the Berekum Catholic Primary and Middle Schools from 1941 and 1949, culminating in the Common Entrance Examination towards the end of 1949. Benneh studied at Achimota School during his secondary years from 1950 and 1956 where he obtained the GCE Ordinary Level (1954) and GCE Advanced Level (1956) certificates. At Achimota, his nickname was \"“Anago”\", an allusion to his athletic prowess. At the age of 14, while in Form Three, he led the Achimota Athletic Team to compete with Kings College, a notable secondary school in Lagos, Nigeria. He also won the 800 yard-race during the Inter-College Games at the Accra Sports Stadium.\n\nIn 1957, he was among 4 students who were awarded the \"Shell Ghana Independence Scholarship\" for university studies at the University College of Ghana, then a constituent college of the University of London where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Geography in 1960. At Legon, he captained the University of Ghana Athletics Team from 1958 to 1959. Between 1961 and 1964, he did his postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics, from where he received his PhD.\n\nAt the beginning of his career, just before his doctoral studies, he taught geography at Achimota School in 1961. Benneh was appointed a lecturer in the Department of Geography at the University of Ghana, Legon in 1964, Senior Lecturer in 1973, Associate Professor in 1976 and Full Professor in 1989. As a university administrator, he served as the Chairman of the Department of Geography and Resource Development, Senior Tutor of the Commonwealth Hall, Dean of the Faculty of Social Studies and Pro-Vice-Chancellor, Director of Population Impact Project funded by the USAID. Benneh was appointed at Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ghana in 1992 and retired in 1996. George Benneh became an Emeritus Professor of Geography and Resource Development after his stint as a vice-chancellor of the university. He has stated that in his academic career, he largely self-funded his own research projects.\n\nAdditionally, he was a Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Geography, University of Copenhagen, Denmark in 1973, 1983 and again in 1996. In 1982, he was a Senior Fulbright Hays Visiting Professor at the Department of Geography at the University of Pittsburgh and also, Visiting Professor, Department of Geography and Research Associate at the Centre for Research on Economic Development, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.\n\nHe was a distinguished visiting Professor and Guest Speaker at the 50th Anniversary of the Fulbright Hayes Fellowship Anniversary Conference in Atlanta, in 1996. In 1997, he was the John Cadbury Fellow at the Centre for West African Studies at the University of Birmingham, and a Visiting Lecturer, Department of Geography, University of New England, Armidale, New South Wales, Australia.\n\nGeorge Benneh was appointed the Commissioner for Lands, Natural Resources, Fuel and Power from 1979 to 1980. Concurrently, he was the Minister of Lands, Natural Resources, Fuel and Power. Between 1980 and 1981, he served as the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning. After the June 1979 and December 1981 coups d’état, both led by Jerry John Rawlings, he was thrown into jail without trial by the military junta on allegations of corruption. He spent a total of ten weeks in prison before being set free. In an interview with the national newspaper, Daily Graphic, he described his prison experience as humiliating, adding that \"“If you have not been deprived of your freedom, you will not appreciate what freedom is.”\" \n\nGeorge Benneh has consulted for many international organisations including the World Bank, United Nations, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, UNESCO, United Nations University in Tokyo, UNFPA, Catholic University Louvain in Belgium, Moscow State University, Russia, and the Centre for Development Studies, Trivandrum, Kerala, India. Benneh was the Team Leader of UNFPA Population Review and Strategy Development Mission to the Republic of Tanzania in 1991, member of the United Nations University Feasibility Team for the establishment of Research and Training Centre at Lucerne, Switzerland in 1998, and member of the United Nations University International Feasibility Study Group for Research and Training Centre on Nature and Human Security in Bonn, Germany in 2000.\n\n\n\nGeorge Benneh has authored over 13 books and booklets and 70 other publications in Geography, Environment, Land Tenure and Land Use, Population, Education and Public Administration. Some of his books include \"A New Geography of Ghana\" (1970) and \"Technology Should Seek Tradition: Studies on Traditional Land Tenure and Small Holder Farming Systems in Ghana\" (2011).\n\nHe has participated in over 60 International Conferences, Seminars and Workshops including the International Workshop and Rural Poverty Eradication in the 21st Century held in Tokyo in 2000, and the AAU General Conference held in Nairobi in February 2001. George Benneh received the United Nations Global 500 award at the first Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1992 for his contribution to teaching and research in the fields of Population and Environment. He was named the Man of the Year in 1997 by the American Biographical Institute. He is a Member of the New York Academy of Sciences and a Member of New York Academy of Science. He is also a Member of the Academia Europaea (European Academy). He has received several state awards from his native Ghana and other states: Grand Officer De Ordre Du Lion, Republic of Senegal, 1981, Companion of River Gambia, Republic of The Gambia, 1981 and member of the Order of the Star of Ghana, 2006.\n\nHe has also been awarded honorary doctorate degrees (Doctor of Letters – honoris causa) by a number of universities including University of Copenhagen, 1998, Longwood College, Virginia, USA in 1995, University of Tokyo in 1996 and University of Ghana, 2002 and University for Development Studies, Tamale in 2003 for the role he played in setting it up.\n\nThe University of Ghana, Legon named a roundabout in honour of George Benneh.\n\nHe launched his autobiography, \"'My Time, My Nation\"' in 2017. In the book he recounts his childhood, school years at Achimota. There are also chapters of his life as an African postgraduate student in Britain and his encounter with racism in the United States. He gives a systemic account of his academic and political careers and how he survived serving under different political regimes and military interventions in the country.\n\nBenneh has also donated a 257 multidisciplinary collection of books from the personal library to the Balme Library of the University of Ghana. Some of his books include \"Fighting For Freedom, Energy And Ghana’s Socio-Economic Development, Technology Should Seek Tradition, Gender: Evolving Roles And Perceptions, Harnessing Research, Science And Technology For Sustainable Development In Ghana, Women And Development In The Third World, European Review, Ghana @ 50 Anniversary Lectures, Philosophy\" and \"Human Geography: An Introduction To Contemporary Approaches, Population Dynamics of Kenya\".\n\nTo bridge the research-policy gap and to bring science and technology to the doorstep of every citizen, Benneh initiated the convening of a National Forum on Harnessing Research, Science and Technology for Sustainable National Development in 2004, the planning committee of which he is still chair.\n\nHe has set up a project on ICT for the youth at his hometown in Berekum. Together with his siblings, he donated land at the Benneh Estate for the ICT project saying “education is so important for one’s livelihood” in order to equip the youth with employable skills as a way to solve youth unemployment in the area.\n\nHe is married with six children, three sons and three daughters, and has 16 grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "22363285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22363285", "title": "Hancock Seamount", "text": "Hancock Seamount\n\nHancock Seamount is a seamount of the Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nIt was formed in the Eocene and Oligocene epochs of the Paleogene Period. The last eruption from Hancock Seamount is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "42513455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42513455", "title": "Illustrated Treatise on the Maritime Kingdoms", "text": "Illustrated Treatise on the Maritime Kingdoms\n\nThe Illustrated Treatise on the Maritime Kingdoms, or Haiguo Tuzhi, is a 19th-century Chinese gazetteer compiled by scholar-official Wei Yuan and others, based on initial translations ordered by Special Imperial Commissioner Lin Zexu. The \"Treatise\" is regarded as the first significant Chinese work on the West and one of China's initial responses to the Anglo-Chinese First Opium War (18391842). Eventually stretching to one hundred \"juan\", or scrolls, the treatise contains numerous maps and much geographical detail covering both the western and eastern hemispheres. Wei's book also garnered significant interest in Japan and helped mould the country's foreign policy with respect to the West.\n\nDuring his term in Canton (now Guangzhou) as Special Imperial Commissioner, Lin Zexu observed the might of British naval power and the inadequacies of the Chinese coastal defence system at first hand. Along with other intellectuals of the time, Lin's objective was \"to determine the source and nature of Western power in Asia and to discover Western objectives in East Asia.\" The commissioner hired four Chinese translators who had been trained by missionaries to assist with the task of obtaining and translating appropriate western texts. One of them, Liang Jinde (), an assistant to missionary Elijah Coleman Bridgman, provided copies of \"The Chinese Repository\" and other works. Lin also purchased a copy of the 1834 \"Encyclopedia of Geography\" by Hugh Murray from the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, which Liang translated to become the draft for Lin's own \"Geography of the Four Continents\" (). However, before the book could be published, the First Opium War broke out in 1839 and the project was shelved. When the war ended in 1842, Lin's exile to the remote northwestern city of Yili meant that he passed his draft manuscript to Wei Yuan with a request that he complete it. Lin's contributions to the treatise proved so important that Karl Gützlaff mistakenly attributed the work to him in his September 1847 review for the \"Chinese Repository\".\n\nAs well as mapping various countries, Wei's objective was to provide as complete a picture as possible of the advantages they possessed in shipbuilding techniques and weapons production so that these \"might be turned to use for subduing them.\" Wei completed his investigations of western penetration into East Asia in 1841, and in the Treatise proposed the construction of a shipyard and arsenal at Canton and the employment of foreign engineers to teach marine navigation and weapons operation \"pioneer ideas in the military history of modern China\".\n\n \"[It] divides the whole into eighteen parts, which are set forth in classical and somewhat obscure language. The 1st section enjoins the necessity of taking advantage of barbarian power and inventions, to resist the barbarians and to be on a proper footing with them. This may be said to be the grand object of the book, which then proceeds to give a geographical and historical account of all the nations in Europe, Asia, Africa and America. The closing chapters direct attention to the superiority of barbarians in their method of circulating news, ship-building, and gunnery; and are filled with woodcuts representing things and processes &c. Amongst barbarians, the English occupy a prominent place.\"\n\nThe first edition of the \"Illustrated Treatise on the Maritime Kingdoms\", comprising 50 \"juan\" or scrolls, was published on January3 1843. This was followed in 1847 with a reorganised and slightly longer version running to 60 \"juan\", while the third and final edition of 100 \"juan\" appeared in 1852. As the editions progressed, each in turn featured new maps and geographical information regarding the West, using material that became available after the First Opium War.\n\nAlthough on publication the Treatise received scant attention in China, in the longer term, Wei and his contemporaries helped change the Chinese view of the outside world not only through the dissemination of new material but also by starting to change the view that China was the \"center of civilization\" or \"center of the world\" (\"Middle Kingdom\").\n\nWei's work was also to have a later impact on Japanese foreign policy. In 1862, samurai Takasugi Shinsaku, from the ruling Japanese Tokugawa shogunate, visited Shanghai on board the trade ship \"Senzaimaru\". Japan had been forced open by US Commodore Matthew C. Perry less than a decade earlier and the purpose of the mission was to establish how China had fared following the country's defeat in the Second Opium War (18561860). Takasugi was aware of the forward thinking exhibited by those such as Wei on the new threats posed by Western \"barbarians\" and later recorded in his diary: \"The philosophy of the Chinese people stands poles apart from the correct path for China's future development. They are infatuated with lofty words unrelated to reality.\" Sinologist Joshua Fogel concludes that when Takasugi found out \"that the writings of Wei Yuan were out of print in China and that the Chinese were not forcefully preparing to drive the foreigners out of their country, rather than derive from this a long analysis of the failures of the Chinese people, he extracted lessons for the future of Japan\". Similarly, after reading the Treatise, scholar and political reformer Yokoi Shōnan became convinced that Japan should embark on a \"cautious, gradual and realistic opening of its borders to the Western world\" and thereby avoid the mistake China had made in engaging in the First Opium War. Takasugi would later emerge as a leader of the 1868 Meiji Restoration which presaged the emergence of Japan as a modernised nation at the beginning of the 20th century. Yoshida Shōin, influential Japanese intellectual and Meiji reformer, said Wei's Treatise had \"made a big impact in our country\".\n\n\n Chinese.\n"}
{"id": "24921406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24921406", "title": "Jean-Paul Rodrigue", "text": "Jean-Paul Rodrigue\n\nJean-Paul Rodrigue (born July 20, 1967) is a Canadian scholar of transportation geography. He has a PhD in transport geography from the Université de Montréal (1994) and has been part of the Department of Global Studies and Geography at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York, since 1999. His work, \"\", (\"The Global Economic Space: Advanced Economies and Globalization\") won the PricewaterhouseCoopers \"Best Business Book\" award in 2000.\nMore recently, in 2008, Rodrigue achieved notability with his model of economic bubbles, charting four \"phases of a bubble\". While the \"smart money\" has purchased during the earlier \"stealth phase\", institutional investors begin to buy during \"take off\". Following media coverage, the general public begins to invest leading to steep rise in prices as \"enthusiasm\" and then \"greed\" kick in. \"Delusion\" precedes the peak.\n\nThe chart was widely syndicated during the late-2000s financial crisis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56028198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56028198", "title": "Journal of Coastal Research", "text": "Journal of Coastal Research\n\nThe Journal of Coastal Research is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on coastal studies and processes. It was established in 1984 as Litoralia, obtaining its current name in 1985. It is published by the Coastal Education and Research Foundation, whose president and executive director, Charles W. Finkl, is also the journal's editor-in-chief. The journal has been a member of BioOne since 2005. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.915, ranking it 193rd out of 229 journals in the category \"Environmental Sciences\".\n"}
{"id": "262579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262579", "title": "Kjelfossen", "text": "Kjelfossen\n\nKjelfossen () is one of the highest waterfalls in Norway. The falls are located near the village of Gudvangen in the municipality of Aurland in Sogn og Fjordane county. With a total fall height of , the waterfall is listed as the 18th tallest waterfall in the world. The tallest single drop is . The height of the waterfall has never been accurately measured, so there are discrepancies in its actual height. Some sources list it as tall.\n\nThe largest of the three (the one on the left) is officially named \"Kjelfossen\", but is also known as \"Stor Kjelfossen\". The middle falls is known as \"Vetle Kjelfoss\", and the one on the right (and the smallest by volume) is thought to be unnamed. The falls are located just east of Gudvangen at the end of the Nærøyfjord. The falls can be seen from the highway, just west of the entrance into the Gudvanga Tunnel. The falls are located about west of Flåm and west of Aurlandsvangen.\n"}
{"id": "18495340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18495340", "title": "Kutai", "text": "Kutai\n\nKutai is a historic region in East Kalimantan in Indonesia on the island of Borneo and is also the name of the native ethnic of the region, numbering around 300,000 who have their own language of the same name and their own rich history. Today the name is preserved in the names of three regencies in East Kalimantan, the Kutai Kartanegara Regency, the West Kutai Regency and the East Kutai Regency. The major river of the region is the Mahakam River.\n\nThe history is usually divided into two periods, that of the early Kutai Martadipura phase some time around 350–400 and the later Kutai Kartanegara phase beginning around 1300. The first period produced the earliest known inscriptions in Indonesia.\n\nKutai Martadipura is a 4th-century Indianized kingdom located in the Kutai area, East Kalimantan. It is one of the earliest ancient kingdom in Indonesian history. Seven stone pillars, or yūpa (“sacrificial posts”), have been found in Kutai, Kaman Estuary, near the Mahakam River. The plinths bear an inscription in the Pallava script of India reading \"A gift to the Brahmin priests\". The style of the script has been dated to the last half the 4th century. It is believed these religions were brought to Indonesia around the 2nd and 4th centuries, respectively, when Indian traders arrived on the islands of Sumatra, Java and Sulawesi.\n\nThe names of three rulers are known from the inscriptions. The first ruler mentioned is Kuḍungga, the “lord of men” (narendra), his son Aśwawarman, styled the “founder of the dynasty” (vaṇśa-kartṛ) and grandson of the first and son of the later, Mulavarman called the “lord of kings” (rājendra). As Kuṇḍungga does not seem to be a name of Sanskrit hinduistic style while the other two are, it is presumed he was a leader of local origin ( Dayak People ) and it was his son Aśwawarman that adopted the hinduistic belief. It was Mūlawarman who let these inscriptions be made. While nothing of the military actions of his two predecessors is known, \"Raja\" Mūlawarman is stated to have conquered his neighbours in battle. He is also said to have increased the land of Kutai by a local ritual called \"asvaredjwa\". This ritual required a horse released to his land. The footsteps of the freely roaming horse were taken as evidence that this land belonged to Kutai. Mulawarman was also known for his tribute of gold to his God. The name of his kingdom is not mentioned on the inscriptions nor do any other documents in other countries relate to a kingdom at this time in this region. It is not known what became of the kingdom after these pillars had been erected. It may be possible that the name Kutai, as in Tuñjung Kute of the 1365 Javanese Majapahit poem Nāgarakṛtāgama is as ancient and reflects the original name used a thousand years earlier.\n\nTwo Hindu nations were known to have had strong trade relations with Kutai, namely, the Rajahnate of Cebu and the Rajahnate of Butuan, both are located in present-day Philippines.\n\nAround the end of the 13th century the kingdom of Kutai Kartanegara was established in the region of Tepian Batu or Kutai Lama. The first known ruler is Aji Batara Agung Dewa Sakti, who is thought to have ruled from 1300 to 1325. Aji Pangeran Sinum Panji Mendapa, who ruled 1635–1650, was able to conquer the kingdom of Kutai Martadipura and merged the two realms thus Kutai Kartanegara Ing Martadipura.\n\nIn 1667 the Dutch V.O.C. attacked Makassar on the island of Sulawesi leading to the downfall of the Bugis Kingdom of Gowa. Some of the Bugis under the leadership of Lamohang Daeng Mangkona or Pua Ado I immigrated to Kutai on neighbouring Borneo (Kalimantan) and the ruler of Kutai allowed them to settle in Kampung Melantai around the Karang Mumus River, now known as Kampung Selili. This settlement eventually developed into the modern town of Samarinda.\n\nIslam took hold in the region since the 17th century (most of the Bugis were Muslims) and Aji Muhammad Idris, ruling 1732–1739?, was the first ruler to have an Islamic name.\n\nAfter a civil war Aji Imbut, after finally becoming the ruler as Aji Muhammad Muslihuddin in 1780, moved the capital in 1782 from Pemarangan to Tepian Pandan. The name of the capital city eventually developed from Tangga Arung to its present form of Tenggarong.\n\nIn 1844 the Dutch defeated the Sultan Aji Muhammad Salehudin, forcing him into exile, and took direct control of Kutai.\n\nThe Japanese invaded the region in 1942 and acknowledged a \"Kooti Kingdom\", that was a subject of the Tenno. In 1945 Kutai joined, along with its neighbours, into the East Kalimantan federation.\n\nIn 1949 Kutai finally became part of the United Republic of Indonesia.\n\nThe traditional language of the region is referred to as Tanggarong Kutai and is considered a local ethnic language, such as Banjarese to the south, Kota Bangun Kutainese to the west, Berau to the north and others more distant. As such Tanggarong Kutai belongs to the large Austronesian family of languages. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "223907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223907", "title": "List of Bohemian monarchs", "text": "List of Bohemian monarchs\n\nThis is a list of Bohemian monarchs now also referred to as list of Czech monarchs who ruled as Dukes and Kings of Bohemia. The Duchy of Bohemia was established in 870 and raised to the Kingdom of Bohemia in 1212 (although several Bohemian monarchs ruled as non-hereditary Kings of Bohemia beforehand, first gaining the title in 1085). From 1004 to 1806, Bohemia was part of the Holy Roman Empire, and its ruler was an elector. During 1526–1804 the Kingdom of Bohemia, together with the other lands of the Bohemian Crown, had been ruled under a personal union as part of the Habsburg Monarchy. From 1804 to 1918, Bohemia had been part of the Empire of Austria, which itself had been part of the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary from 1867 to 1918. Following the dissolution of the monarchy, the Bohemian lands, now also referred to as Czech lands, became part of Czechoslovakia, and form today's Czech Republic (Czechia) since 1993.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5767893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5767893", "title": "List of Global Boundary Stratotype Sections and Points", "text": "List of Global Boundary Stratotype Sections and Points\n\nThis is a list of Global Boundary Stratotype Sections and Points. Since 1977, Global Boundary Stratotype Sections and Points (abbreviated GSSPs) are internationally agreed upon reference points on stratigraphic sections of rock which define the lower boundaries of stages on the geologic time scale. They are selected by the International Commission on Stratigraphy based on multiple factors, but their accessibility and the degree to which they are representative of the same boundary on sections worldwide are among the most important.\n\nSince GSSPs require well-preserved sections of rock without interruptions in sedimentation, and since most are defined by different stages of animal life, defining them becomes progressively more difficult as one goes further back in time.\n\nThis list is divided first into the geologic eras of the Phanerozoic (the Cenozoic, the Mesozoic, and the Paleozoic) and then into the geologic periods of each era. Each period is marked below the era bar on top of its subdivided epochs and stages. Each stage is assigned an age in mya, an acronym for million years ago, which is the age at which it began. Most of these ages are derived from astronomical cycles in sediments, magnetic data, biostratigraphic data, and radiometric dating methods. The GSSP assigned to each stage is that stage's lower boundary and oldest point.\n\nAges are given in \"million year ago\" (mya). They are obtained with different radiometric dating methods depending on the type of rock and its age. Ages that have a tilde (~) prefix are approximate ages for GSSPs that have not been defined or not been accurately dated.\n\nThe Status column has a \"golden spike\" for every GSSP which has been formally agreed by the ICS. Those without have only candidate sections which have not yet been formally ratified. The clock stands for times that are currently defined only by an age.\n\nThe \"Defining markers\" column lists the evidence in the rock used to define the boundary. (Ideally, these are applicable in rock sections worldwide.) Most of the boundaries rely on the fossil record (biologic), paleomagnetic data (magnetic), and/or climate data determined by carbon and oxygen isotopes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317148", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: W", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: W\n\n"}
{"id": "1357764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1357764", "title": "List of assets owned by the Kuomintang", "text": "List of assets owned by the Kuomintang\n\nThe Kuomintang (KMT), also known as the Chinese Nationalist Party, is a political party active in the Republic of China (Taiwan) (ROC). It has purportedly been among the world's most wealthiest political parties. In recent years much attention, whether deemed necessary or not, has been paid to the party's businesses and real estate. Claims have been made by party rivals that many of its assets were obtained illegally while the KMT ruled Taiwan under a one-party system. However, in recent years, the party has been hit with many financial and legal difficulties.\n\nThe KMT's total assets are said to total nearly NT$40 billion but most of the party's capital was tied in enterprise and real estate, and not as cash.\n\nMedia\n\n"}
{"id": "20094003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20094003", "title": "List of extreme points of Lithuania", "text": "List of extreme points of Lithuania\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Lithuania: the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location, as well as the highest and lowest points.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24484923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24484923", "title": "List of global manpower fit for military service", "text": "List of global manpower fit for military service\n\nThe following list projects the total number of people around the globe that are eligible for military service. The estimates are drawn from demographic projections in the CIA World Factbook as of 2009. As defined by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, \"fit for military service\" means all citizens of a country (both male and female) between the ages of 16 and 49 that are not otherwise disqualified for health reasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37476469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37476469", "title": "List of hutongs in Beijing", "text": "List of hutongs in Beijing\n\nThe following is a list of hutongs in Beijing, People's Republic of China:\n\n"}
{"id": "575575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575575", "title": "List of names in English with counterintuitive pronunciations", "text": "List of names in English with counterintuitive pronunciations\n\nThis is a set of lists of English personal and place names whose pronunciations are counterintuitive to their spelling, because the pronunciation does not correspond to the spelling, or because a better known namesake has a markedly different pronunciation. The latter are known as heterophonic names (the opposite of homophones, which are written differently but pronounced the same).\n\nExcluded are the numerous spellings which fail to make the pronunciation obvious without actually being at odds with it: for example, the pronunciation of \"Schenectady\" is not immediately obvious, but neither is it counterintuitive.\n\nSee for guides to the IPA symbols used, and variations depending on dialect.\n\nSee List of places in the United Kingdom and Ireland with counterintuitive pronunciations, and:\n\nSee:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEmboldened names are traditional so while not intuitive, are among the most well-used.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1258639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1258639", "title": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Dassa", "text": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Dassa\n\nTerritory located in present-day Benin.\n\nOba = \"Ruler\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7120011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7120011", "title": "List of volcanoes in French Polynesia", "text": "List of volcanoes in French Polynesia\n\nThis is a list of active and extinct volcanoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "57274034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57274034", "title": "Lower Mesopotamia", "text": "Lower Mesopotamia\n\nLower Mesopotamia is a historical region of Iraq. Also known as the Sawad and al-'Irāq al-'Arabi (\"Arabian Irāq\") in the Middle Ages. Lower Mesopotamia was home to ancient Sumerian and Babylonian civilisations.\n\nAn alluvial plain begins north of Baghdad and extends to the Persian Gulf. Here the Tigris and Euphrates rivers lie above the level of the plain in many places, and the whole area is a river delta interlaced by the channels of the two rivers and by irrigation canals. Intermittent lakes, fed by the rivers in flood, also characterize southeastern Iraq. A fairly large area () just above the confluence of the two rivers at Al Qurnah and extending east of the Tigris beyond the Iranian border is marshland, known as Hawr al Hammar, the result of centuries of flooding and inadequate drainage. Much of it is permanent marsh, but some parts dry out in early winter, and other parts become marshland only in years of great flood.\n\nBecause the waters of the Tigris and Euphrates above their confluence are heavily silt-laden, irrigation and fairly frequent flooding deposit large quantities of silty loam in much of the delta area. Windborne silt contributes to the total deposit of sediments. It has been estimated that the delta plains are built up at the rate of nearly twenty centimeters in a century. In some areas, major floods lead to the deposit in temporary lakes of as much as thirty centimeters of mud.\n\nThe Tigris and Euphrates also carry large quantities of salts. These, too, are spread on the land by sometimes excessive irrigation and flooding. A high water table and poor surface and subsurface drainage tend to concentrate the salts near the surface of the soil. In general, the salinity of the soil increases from Baghdad south to the Persian Gulf and severely limits productivity in the region south of Al Amarah. The salinity is reflected in the large lake in central Iraq, southwest of Baghdad, known as Bahr al Milh (Sea of Salt). There are two other major lakes in the country to the north of Bahr al Milh: Buhayrat ath Tharthar and Buhayrat al Habbaniyah.\n"}
{"id": "11879701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11879701", "title": "Michoud fault", "text": "Michoud fault\n\nThe Michoud fault is a geological fault that runs through eastern New Orleans. The Michoud fault is the subject of extensive scientific inquiry into why Louisiana is losing vast tracts of land.\n\nSubsurface mapping identified the Michoud fault, on the basis of well cutoffs and seismic surveys. Sedimentary growth implies that movement along the Michoud fault has been intermittent since Oligocene time (Bebout and Gutierrez, 1983). A cross section in McBride (1998) shows a high-angle normal fault that was correlated by Dokka (2006) with the Michoud fault. This fault merges with a low-angle detachment fault at –7 km deep that developed along the top of a slightly south-dipping zone of weak salt and shale. These structures are considered to be related to a regional south-vergent extensional-contractional complex described by Peel et al. (1995; Fig. 1). Movement of the complex and thus on the Michaud fault reflects gravitational instabilities and down-dip motion during times of high sedimentation (Peel et al., 1995).\n\nThe Michoud fault belongs to a class of geologic structures known as growth faults (Mauduit, T., Brun, J. P. 1998). Growth faults are common geologic structures of regions undergoing high sedimentation rates, such as river deltas and passive margins. They often develop where weak rock layers (detachments) such as salt, anhydrite, or shale underlie regions of rapid sedimentation. These weak zones allow the growing mass of material above them to slide downhill, either continuously or episodically. These downslope movements will be correspondingly experienced in the headwall region (such as that occupied by the Michoud fault) either as slow (barely perceptible) or rapid (catastrophic) subsidence. Growth faults are also sometimes called \"listric faults\", implying that the fault is a concave-upward surface that transforms nearly vertical displacements at the surface into nearly horizontal ones at depth.\n\nThe Michoud fault is not unexpected or unusual as a geologic feature of the Mississippi River Delta. Holocene faulting and tilting is widely recognized in many world deltas, such as the Nile, the Ganges-Brahmaputra, the Yangtze, the Po River, and the Rhine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1488994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1488994", "title": "Minimum wage in Canada", "text": "Minimum wage in Canada\n\nUnder the Canadian Constitution, the responsibility for enacting and enforcing labour laws, including the minimum wage, rests with the ten provinces as well as the three territories which have been granted this power by federal legislation. Some provinces allow lower wages to be paid to liquor servers and other gratuity earners or to inexperienced employees.\n\nThe federal government in past years set its own minimum wage rates for workers in federal jurisdiction industries (railways for example). In 1996, however, the was re-defined to be the general adult minimum wage rate of the province or territory where the work is performed. This means, for example, that a railway company could not legally pay a worker in British Columbia less than C$12.65 per hour regardless of the worker's experience.\n\nIn 2013, 39.8% of minimum wage workers were between the ages of 15 and 19; in 1997, it was 36%. 50.2% of workers in this age group were paid minimum wage in 2013, an increase from 31.5% in 1997. Statistics Canada notes that \"youth, women and persons with a low level of education were the groups most likely to be paid at minimum wage.\"\n\nAssuming a 40-hour workweek and 52 paid weeks a year, the annual gross income of an individual earning the lowest minimum wage in Canada is C$22,880 \"(in Nova Scotia)\" and the highest minimum wage is C$31,200 \"(in Alberta)\".\n\nThe following table lists the hourly minimum wages for adult workers in each province and territory of Canada. The provinces which have their minimum wages in bold allow for lower wages under circumstances which are described under the \"Comments\" heading.\n\n\"Note: The following table can be sorted by Jurisdiction, Wage, or Effective date using the icon.\"\nCritics of the minimum wage, such as the Canadian Federation of Independent Business and the C. D. Howe Institute, contend that minimum wage laws actually hurt the very people they purport to help by forcing employers to raise prices, reduce staff, or close down. Another critic of minimum wage increases, University of Laval economics professor Stephen Gordon, has argued that the poverty-reducing impacts of the minimum wage are overstated. In his National Post article Gordon writes:\n\nThe case for increasing the minimum wage has problems in both dimensions: the losses in total income are typically underestimated (when they are not being dismissed out of hand) and the putative reductions in income inequality are almost certainly being overstated. Let’s examine total incomes first. Labour demand curves slope down: everything else being equal, higher wages reduce the quantity of labour employers demand. And fewer people with jobs means less total income. If the theoretical point is clear — and I’m not aware of a compelling theoretical argument suggesting that employers will react to higher minimum wage by hiring more workers — the empirical evidence is not.\n\nOther Canadian economists have supported minimum wage increases. David Green, a professor and director at the Vancouver School of Economics, has conducted extensive research on the minimum wage’s effects on the economy. In his work entitled “The Case for Increasing Minimum Wage”, Green presents a rebuttal to the critics of the minimum wage stating:\n\nClaims that increases in the minimum wage will generate huge efficiency costs for the economy and mass unemployment are not credible. While estimates of employment losses from minimum wage increases for teenagers in Canada exist, the estimated effects on adult employment are minimal at best. Those results cannot be translated into big costs for the economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "55031836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55031836", "title": "Mondamin (crater)", "text": "Mondamin (crater)\n\nMondamin is a large crater in the southern hemisphere of the dwarf planet Ceres, located at 62.24° S, 354° E. It has a diameter of . The crater is named after Mondamin, an Ojibwe corn (maize) god. It was officially named by the IAU on October 15, 2015.\n\nNearby prominent craters are the small Tibong and Belun to the north, Annona to the north-northeast and east is the slightly larger Zadeni, about a crater diameter to the west is Yalode and attached to the southern rim is Jacheongbi, down south is the South Pole. East of the crater center is the dwarf planet's meridian.\n"}
{"id": "365927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365927", "title": "Mount Kenya", "text": "Mount Kenya\n\nMount Kenya is the highest mountain in Kenya and the second-highest in Africa, after Kilimanjaro. The highest peaks of the mountain are Batian (), Nelion () and Point Lenana (). Mount Kenya is located in the former Eastern and central provinces of Kenya, now Meru, Embu, Laikipia, Kirinyaga, Nyeri and Isiolo counties, about south of the equator, around north-northeast of the capital Nairobi. Mount Kenya is the source of the name of the Republic of Kenya.\n\nMount Kenya is a stratovolcano created approximately 3 million years after the opening of the East African rift. Before glaciation, it was high. It was covered by an ice cap for thousands of years. This has resulted in very eroded slopes and numerous valleys radiating from the centre. There are currently 11 small glaciers. The forested slopes are an important source of water for much of Kenya.\n\nThere are several vegetation bands from the base to the summit. The lower slopes are covered by different types of forest. Many alpine species are endemic to Mount Kenya, such as the giant lobelias and senecios and a local subspecies of rock hyrax. An area of around the centre of the mountain was designated a National Park and listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1997. The park receives over 16,000 visitors per year.\n\nMount Kenya National Park, established in 1949, protects the region surrounding the mountain. Currently the national park is within the forest reserve which encircles it. In April 1978 the area was designated a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. The national park and the forest reserve, combined, became a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1997.\n\nThe Government of Kenya had four reasons for creating a national park on and around Mount Kenya. These were the importance of tourism for the local and national economies, preserve an area of great scenic beauty, conserve the biodiversity within the park and to preserve the water catchment for the surrounding area.\n\nKenya's government has announced a project to discourage animals from straying into small holdings surrounding the Park and devastating crops. The project will see the Park enclosed by an electric fence with five electrified strands and is expected to be completed by 2014. The fence will discharge an electric shock, but is not dangerous to humans or animals.\n\nThe main ethnic groups living around Mount Kenya are Kikuyu, Ameru, Embu and Maasai. The first three are closely related. They all see the mountain as an important aspect of their cultures. All these cultures arrived in the Mount Kenya area in the last several hundred years.\n\nThe Kikuyu live on the southern and western sides of the mountain. They are agriculturalists, and make use of the highly fertile volcanic soil on the lower slopes. They believe that God, \"Ngai\" or \"Mwene Nyaga\", lived on Mount Kenya when he came down from the sky. They believe that the mountain is Ngai's throne on earth. It is the place where Gĩkũyũ, the father of the tribe, used to meet with God. Thus according to the Kikuyu records, Gĩkũyũ is the first person on Earth to ascend the mountain. 'Mwene Nyaga' in Kikuyu language can also translate as the \"Owner of the Striped one\" where 'Mwene' translates to 'owner', and 'Nyaga' to Stripes. The snow (in Kikuyu: Ira) caps of the mountain symbolically represent a crown on God's habitation . 'Nyaga' can also translate to 'Ostrich'. In this context, God is seen to be the owner of that very rare bird the Ostrich.\n\nKikuyu used to build their houses with the doors facing the mountain. The Kikuyu name for Mount Kenya is \"Kĩrĩ Nyaga\" (Kirinyaga), which literally translates to that which has the \"Nyaga\" – Stripes.The mountain therefore is locally accepted as 'God's Resting Place' or 'Where God Lives'.\n\nThe Embu people live to the south-east of Mount Kenya, and believe that the mountain is God's home (the Embu word for God is \"Ngai\" or \"Mwene Njeru\"). The mountain is sacred, and they build their houses with the doors facing towards it. The Embu people are closely related to the Ameru and Mbeere people. The Mbeere and Akamba are the settlers of the southeast side of the mountain.\n\nThe Ameru occupy the east, north and north-western slopes of the mountain. They are generally agricultural and also keep livestock and occupy what is among the most fertile land in Kenya. The Meru god \"Murungu\" was from the skies. Their name for Mt. Kenya is \"Kirimara\", which means 'mountain with white features'.\n\nThe Maasai are semi-nomadic people, who use the land to the north of the mountain to graze their cattle. They believe that their ancestors came down from the mountain at the beginning of time. The Maasai name for Mount Kenya is \"Ol Donyo Keri\", which means 'mountain of stripes', referring to the dark shades as observed from the surrounding plains. At least one Maasai prayer refers to Mount Kenya:\nMount Kenya is a stratovolcano that was active in the Plio-Pleistocene. The original crater was probably over high; higher than Kilimanjaro. Since it became extinct there have been two major periods of glaciation, which are shown by two main rings of moraines below the glaciers. The lowest moraine is found at around . Today the glaciers reach no lower than . After studying the moraines, Gregory put forward the theory that at one time the whole summit of the mountain was covered with an ice cap, and it was this that eroded the peaks to how they are today.\n\nThe lower slopes of the mountain have never been glaciated. They are now mainly cultivated and forested. They are distinguished by steep-sided V-shaped valleys with many tributaries. Higher up the mountain, in the area that is now moorland, the valleys become U-shaped and shallower with flatter bottoms. These were created by glaciation.\n\nWhen Mount Kenya was active there was some satellite activity. The north-eastern side of the mountain has many old volcanic plugs and craters. The largest of these, Ithanguni, even had its own ice cap when the main peaks were covered in ice. This can be seen by the smoothed summit of the peak. Circular hills with steep sides are also frequent in this area, which are probably the remains of small plugged vents. However, as the remaining mountain is roughly symmetrical, most of the activity must have occurred at the central plug.\n\nThe rocks that form Mount Kenya are mainly basalts, rhomb porphyrites, phonolites, kenytes and trachytes. Kenyte was first reported by Gregory in 1900 following his study of the geology of Mount Kenya.\n\nThe geology of the Mount Kenya area was first proposed to the Western Community by Joseph Thomson in 1883. He saw the mountain from the nearby Laikipia Plateau and wrote that it was an extinct volcano with the plug exposed. However, as he had only seen the mountain from a distance his description was not widely believed in Europe, particularly after 1887 when Teleki and von Höhnel ascended the mountain and described what they considered to be the crater. In 1893 Gregory's expedition reached the Lewis Glacier at . He confirmed that the volcano was extinct and that there were glaciers present. The first thorough survey by Europeans was not undertaken until 1966.\n\nThe peaks of Mount Kenya are almost all of a volcanic origin. The majority of the peaks are located near the centre of the mountain. These peaks have an Alpine appearance due to their craggy nature. Typically of Alpine terrain, the highest peaks and gendarmes occur at the intersection of ridges. The central peaks only have a few mosses, lichens and small alpine plants growing in rock crevices. Further away from the central peaks, the volcanic plugs are covered in volcanic ash and soils. The vegetation growing on these peaks is typical for their vegetation band.\n\nThe highest peaks are Batian (), Nelion () and Pt Lenana (). Batian and Nelion are within of each other, separated by the \"Gate of the Mists\" gap (). Coryndon Peak () is the next highest, but unlike the previous peaks it does not form a part of the central plug.\n\nOther peaks around the central plug include Pt Piggot (), Pt Dutton (), Pt John (), Pt John Minor (), Krapf Rognon (), Pt Peter (), Pt Slade () and Midget Peak (). All of these have a steep pyramidal form.\n\nSignificant craggy outlying peaks include Terere () and Sendeyo () which form a pair of twin peaks to the north of the main plug. Together, they form a large parasitic plug. Other notable peaks include The Hat (), Delamere Peak, Macmillan Peak and Rotundu.\n\nThe glaciers on Mount Kenya are retreating rapidly. The Mountain Club of Kenya in Nairobi has photographs showing the mountain when it was first climbed in 1899, and again more recently; the retreat of the glaciers is very evident. Descriptions of ascents of several of the peaks advise on the use of crampons, but this is true only in some cases and at higher heights. Every year there is less new snow accumulating in winter than melting on summer, even on the Lewis Glacier (the largest of them) in winter, so there is no formation of new ice. It is predicted to be less than 30 years before there will no longer be ice on Mount Kenya. Glacial retreat and disappearance can be caused by change in temperature trends, or by change in precipitation trends.\n\nThe glacier names are (clockwise from the north):\nThe area of glaciers on the mountain was measured in the 1980s, and recorded as about . This is far smaller than the first observations, made in the 1890s.\n\nAlthough Mount Kenya is on the equator the freezing nightly temperatures result in periglacial landforms. There is permafrost a few centimetres (inches) below the surface. Patterned ground is present at to the west of Mugi Hill. These mounds grow because of the repeated freezing and thawing of the ground drawing in more water. There are blockfields present around where the ground has cracked to form hexagons. Solifluction occurs when the night temperatures freeze the soil before it thaws again in the morning. This daily expansion and contraction of the soil prevents the establishment of vegetation.\n\nMount Kenya is the main water catchment area for two large rivers in Kenya; the Tana, the largest river in Kenya, and the Ewaso Ng'iso North. The Mount Kenya ecosystem provides water directly for over 2 million people. The rivers on Mount Kenya have been named after the villages on the slopes of the mountain that they flow close to. The Thuchi River is the district boundary between Meru and Embu. Mount Kenya is a major water tower for the Tana river which in 1988 supplied 80% of Kenya's electricity using a series of seven hydroelectric powerstations and dams.\n\nThe density of streams is very high, especially on the lower slopes which have never been glaciated. The ice cap which used to cover the mountain during the Pliocene eroded large U-shaped valleys which tend to only have one large stream.\nWhere the original shape of the shield volcano is still preserved, there have been millions of years for streams to erode the hillside. This area is therefore characterised by frequent deep fluvial V-shaped valleys.\nThe gradual transition from glaciated to fluvial valley can be clearly observed.\n\nRivers which start on Mount Kenya are the tributaries of two large Kenyan rivers: the Tana and the Ewaso Ng'iro rivers. A lot of Mount Kenyan rivers flow into the Sagana which itself is a tributary of the Tana, which it joins at the Masinga Reservoir. The rivers in the northern part of the mountain, such as the Burguret, Naru Moru, Nanyuki, Liki, Sirimon flow into the Ewaso Ng'iro. The rivers to the south-west, such as the Keringa and Nairobi flow into the Sagana and then into the Tana. The remaining rivers to the south and east, such as the Mutonga, Nithi, Thuchi and Nyamindi, flow directly into the Tana.\n\nMount Kenya has several altitudinal ecological zones, between the savanna surrounding the mountain to the nival zone by the glaciers. Each zone has a dominant species of vegetation. Many of the species found higher up the mountain are endemic, either to Mount Kenya or East Africa.\n\nThere are also differences within the zones, depending on the side of the mountain and aspect of the slope. The south-east is much wetter than the north, so species more dependent on moisture are able to grow. Some species, such as bamboo, are limited to certain aspects of the mountain because of the amount of moisture.\n\nThe climate of Mount Kenya changes considerably with altitude, forming belts of community types. Around the base of the mountain is fertile farmland. The tribes living around the mountain have cultivated this cool relatively moist area for centuries.\n\nMount Kenya is surrounded by forests. The vegetation in the forests depend on rainfall, and the species present differ greatly between the northern and southern slopes. As time has passed the trees on the edge of the forest have been logged and the farmland has encroached further up the fertile slopes of the mountain.\n\nAbove the forest is a belt of bamboo. This zone is almost continuous, but is restricted to small isolated bunches in the north because of low rainfall. The bamboo is natural, and does not require forest disturbance. Tracks are common through the bamboo. Bamboo suppresses other vegetation, so it is uncommon to find trees or other plants here.\nAbove the bamboo is the timberline forest. The trees here are often smaller than the trees in the forests lower down the mountain. The forest here is more intact, because it is less accessible and better protected.\n\nWhen the trees can no longer grow the vegetation changes into heathland and chaparral, at around . Heathland is found in the wetter areas, on the west side of Mount Kenya, and is dominated by giant heathers. Chaparral is found in the drier areas and grasses are more common. and bush fires still occur.\n\nAs the altitude increases the temperature fluctuations become extreme and the air becomes thinner and drier. This region is known as the Afro-alpine zone. The environment here is isolated, with the only similar area nearby being the Aberdares, which are away. Many of the species here are endemic, with adaptations to the cold and fluctuating temperatures. Typical plants here include giant groundsels (senecios) and giant lobelias.\n\nThe region where the glaciers have recently retreated from is nival zone. It is the area that plants have not yet been able to colonise.\n\nThe flora found on Mount Kenya varies with altitude, aspect and exposure. As the altitude increases, the plants have to be more specialised, with adaptations to strong sunlight with ultraviolet, lower mean temperatures and freezing night temperatures.\n\nPlants in the Afro-alpine zone have overcome these difficulties in several ways. One adaptation is known as the giant rosette, which is exhibited by giant senecio, giant lobelia and giant thistle (\"Carduus\"), which use bud leaves to protect their buds from freezing. Giant rosette senecios form single-aged stands that drive community structure over decades.\n\nMany plant species in the Afro-alpine zone of Mount Kenya are giant versions of lowland (or temperate) relatives. However, nearer the nival zone the plants decrease in size again.\n\nThe majority of animals live lower down on the slopes of Mount Kenya. Here there is more vegetation and the climate is less extreme. Various species of monkeys, several antelopes, tree hyrax, porcupines and some larger animals such as elephant and buffalo all live in the forest. Predators found here include hyena and leopard, and occasionally lion.\n\nThere are fewer mammals found at high altitudes on Mount Kenya. The Mount Kenya hyrax and common duiker are able to live here, and are important to the ecosystem. Some smaller mammals, such as the groove-toothed rat, can live here by burrowing into the giant senecios and using their thick stem of dead leaves as insulation. The Mount Kenya mole-rat \"Tachyoryctes rex\" occurs at high altitudes, living in visible mounds. Leopards are resident in the alpine zone.\n\nOther mammal species are only occasional visitors. Remains of elephants, monkeys and bongo have been found high in the alpine zone, and other sightings are remembered in names such as Simba Tarn (simba means lion in Swahili).\n\nSeveral bird species live in the Afro-alpine zone, including sunbirds, alpine chats and starlings and the raptors, augur buzzard, lammergeier and Verreaux's eagle, the latter of which specializes in hunting hyraxes. Birds are important in this ecosystem as pollinators.\n\nThe climate of Mount Kenya has played a critical role in the development of the mountain, influencing the topography and ecology amongst other factors. It has a typical equatorial mountain climate which Hedberg described as \"winter every night and summer every day.\" Mount Kenya is home to one of the Global Atmosphere Watch's atmospheric monitoring stations.\n\nThe year is divided into two distinct wet seasons and two distinct dry seasons which mirror the wet and dry seasons in the Kenyan lowlands. As Mount Kenya ranges in height from to the climate varies considerably over the mountain and has different zones of influence. The lower, south eastern slopes are the wettest as the predominant weather system comes from the Indian ocean. This rainfall supports dense montane forest on these slopes. High on the mountain most of the precipitation falls as snow. Combined, these water sources feed 11 glaciers.\n\nThe current climate on Mount Kenya is wet, but drier than it has been in the past. The temperatures span a wide range, which diminishes with altitude. In the lower alpine zone temperature usually do not go below . Snow and rain are common from March to December, but especially in the two wet seasons. The wet seasons combined account for 5/6 of the annual precipitation. The monsoon, which controls the wet and dry seasons, means that most of the year there are south-easterly winds, but during January and February the dominant wind direction is north-easterly.\n\nMount Kenya, like most locations in the tropics, has two wet seasons and two dry seasons as a result of the monsoon. From mid-March to June the heavy rain season, known as the \"long rains\", brings approximately half of the annual rainfall on the mountain. This is followed by the wetter of the two dry seasons which lasts until September. October to December are the \"short rains\" when the mountain receives approximately a third of its rainfall total. Finally from December to mid-March is the drier dry season when the mountain experiences the least rain.\n\nDuring the dry season the mountain almost always follows the same daily weather pattern. Large daily temperature fluctuations occur which led Hedberg to exclaim \"winter every night and summer every day.\" There is variation in minimum and maximum temperatures day to day, but the standard deviation of the mean hourly pattern is small.\nA typical day is clear and cool in the morning with low humidity. The mountain is in direct sunlight which causes the temperatures to rise quickly with the warmest temperatures occurring between 0900 and 1200. This corresponds to a maximum in the pressure, usually around 10 am. Low on the mountain, between and , clouds begin to form over the western forest zone, due to moist air from Lake Victoria. The anabatic winds caused by warm rising air gradually bring these clouds to the summit region in the afternoon. Around 1500 there is a minimum in sunlight and a maximum in humidity causing the actual and perceived temperature to drop. At 1600 there is a minimum in the pressure. This daily cover of cloud protects the glaciers on the south-west of the mountain which would otherwise get direct sun every day, enhancing their melt. The upwelling cloud eventually reaches the dry easterly air streams and dissipates, leading to a clear sky by 5 pm. There is another maximum of temperature associated with this.\n\nBeing an equatorial mountain the daylight hours are constant with twelve-hour days. Sunrise is about 0630 with the sun setting at 1830 (both EAT = UTC+3). Over the course of the year there is a one-minute difference between the shortest and longest days. At night, the sky is usually clear with katabatic winds blowing down the valleys. Above the lower alpine zone there is usually frost every night.\n\nThe first European to report seeing Mount Kenya was Dr Johann Ludwig Krapf, a German missionary, from Kitui,\na town away from the mountain. The sighting was made on 3 December 1849,\na year after the discovery of Kilimanjaro.\n\nKrapf was told by people of the Embu tribe that lived around the mountain that they did not ascend high enough on the mountain because of the intense cold and the white matter that rolled down the mountains with a loud noise. This led him to infer that glaciers existed on the mountain. It was Krapf who gave the mountain the name \"Kenya\", but the derivation of this is not known with certainty (see the various local names below, some of which are similar).\nKrapf also noted that the rivers flowing from Mount Kenya, and other mountains in the area, were continuously flowing. This was very different from the other rivers in the area, which swelled up in the wet season and completely dried up after the rainy season had ended. As the streams flowed even in the driest seasons he concluded that there must be a source of water up on the mountain, in the form of glaciers. He believed the mountain to be the source of the White Nile.\n\nIn 1851 Krapf returned to Kitui. He travelled closer to the mountain, but did not see it again. In 1877 Hildebrandt was in the Kitui area and heard stories about the mountain, but also did not see it. Since there were no confirmations to back up Krapf's claim people began to be suspicious.\n\nEventually, in 1883, Joseph Thomson passed close by the west side of the mountain and confirmed Krapf's claim. He diverted his expedition and reached up the slopes of the mountain but had to retreat because of trouble with local people. However, the first European exploration high onto the mountain was achieved in 1887 by Count Samuel Teleki. He managed to reach on the south western slopes. On this expedition Teleki mistakenly believed he had found the crater of a volcano.\n\nIn 1892, Teleki and von Höhnel returned to the eastern side, but were unable to get through the forest.\n\nFinally, in 1893, an expedition managed to ascend Mount Kenya as far as the glaciers. This expedition was traveling from the coast to Lake Baringo in the Rift Valley, and was led by Dr John W Gregory, a British geologist. They managed to ascend the mountain to around , and spent several hours on the Lewis Glacier with their guide. On his return to Britain, Gregory published papers and a narrative account of his achievements.\n\nGeorge Kolb, a German physician, made expeditions in 1894 and 1896 and was the first to reach the moorlands on the east side of the mountain. More exploration occurred after 1899 when the Uganda Railway was completed as far as the future site of Nairobi.\n\nOn 28 July 1899, Sir Halford John Mackinder set out from the site of Nairobi on an expedition to Mount Kenya. The members of the expedition consisted of 6 Europeans, 66 Swahilis, 2 Maasai guides, and 96 Kikuyu. The Europeans were Campbell B. Hausberg, second in command and photographer; Douglas Saunders, botanist; C F Camburn, taxidermist; Cesar Ollier, guide; and Josef Brocherel, guide and porter.\nThe expedition made it as far as the mountain, but encountered many difficulties on the way. The country they passed through was full of plague and famine. Many Kikuyu porters tried to desert with women from the villages, and others stole from the villages, which made the chiefs very hostile towards the expedition. When they reached the base camp on 18 August, they could not find any food, suffered two of their party killed by the local people, and eventually had to send Saunders to Naivasha to get help from Captain Gorges, the Government Officer there.\n\nMackinder pushed on up the mountain, and established a camp at in the Höhnel Valley. He made his first attempt on the summit on 30 August with Ollier and Brocherel up the south east face, but they had to retreat when they were within of the summit of Nelion due to nightfall.\n\nOn 5 September, Hausberg, Ollier, and Brocherel made a circuit of the main peaks looking for an easier route to the summit. They could not find one. On 11 September Ollier and Brocherel made an ascent of the Darwin Glacier, but were forced to retreat due to a blizzard.\n\nWhen Saunders returned from Naivasha with the relief party, Mackinder had another attempt at the summit with Ollier and Brocherel. They traversed the Lewis Glacier and climbed the south east face of Nelion. They spent the night near the gendarme, and traversed the snowfield at the head of the Darwin Glacier at dawn before cutting steps up the Diamond Glacier. They reached the summit of Batian at noon on 13 September, and descended by the same route.\n\nAfter the first ascent of Mount Kenya there were fewer expeditions there for a while. The majority of the exploration until after the First World War was by settlers in Kenya, who were not on scientific expeditions. A Church of Scotland mission was set up in Chogoria, and several Scottish missionaries ascended to the peaks, including Rev Dr. J. W. Arthur, G. Dennis and A. R. Barlow. There were other ascents, but none succeeded in summitting Batian or Nelion.\n\nNew approach routes were cleared through the forest, which made access to the peaks area far easier. In 1920, Arthur and Sir Fowell Buxton tried to cut a route in from the south, and other routes came in from Nanyuki in the north, but the most commonly used was the route from the Chogoria mission in the east, built by Ernest Carr. Carr is also credited with building Urumandi and Top Huts.\n\nOn 6 January 1929 the first ascent of Nelion was made by Percy Wyn-Harris and Eric Shipton. They climbed the Normal Route, then descended to the Gate of Mists before ascending Batian. On 8 January they reascended, this time with G. A. Sommerfelt, and in December Shipton made another ascent with R. E. G. Russell. They also made the first ascent of Point John. During this year the Mountain Club of East Africa was formed.\n\nAt the end of July 1930, Shipton and Bill Tilman made the first traverse of the peaks. They ascended by the West Ridge of Batian, traversed the Gate of Mists to Nelion, and descended the Normal Route. During this trip, Shipton and Tilman made first ascents of several other peaks, including Point Peter, Point Dutton, Midget Peak, Point Pigott and either Terere or Sendeyo.\n\nIn the early 1930s there were several visits to the moorlands around Mount Kenya, with fewer as far as the peaks. Raymond Hook and Humphrey Slade ascended to map the mountain, and stocked several of the streams with trout. By 1938 there had been several more ascents of Nelion. In February, Miss C Carroll and Mtu Muthara became the first woman and African respectively to ascend Nelion, in an expedition with Noel Symington, author of \"The Night Climbers of Cambridge\", and on 5 March Miss Una Cameron became the first woman to ascend Batian.\n\nDuring the Second World War there was another drop in ascents of the mountain. The most remarkable ascent during this period was by three Italians who were being held in a British POW camp at the base of the mountain in Nanyuki. They escaped from camp to climb the mountain's third peak, Point Lenana, before \"escaping\" back into camp. Felice Benuzzi, the team leader, retold his story in the book \"No Picnic on Mount Kenya\" (1946).\n\nIn 1949 the Mountain Club of Kenya split from the Mountain Club of East Africa, and the area above was designated a National Park. A road was built from Naro Moru to the moorlands, allowing easier access.\n\nMany new routes were climbed on Batian and Nelion in the next three decades, and in October 1959 the Mountain Club of Kenya produced their first guide to Mount Kenya and Kilimanjaro. On Kenyan independence in 1963, Kisoi Munyao raised the Kenyan flag at the top of the mountain. He died in 2007 and was given a heroic funeral attended by Kenyan president Mwai Kibaki. In the early 1970s the Mount Kenya National Park Mountain Rescue Team was formed, and by the end of the 1970s all major routes on the peaks had been climbed.\n\nOn 19 July 2003, a South African registered aircraft, carrying 12 passengers and two crew, crashed into Mount Kenya at Point Lenana; nobody survived. This was not the first aircraft lost on the mountain; there is also the wreckage of at least one helicopter that crashed before 1972.\n\nIn March 2012 a massive fire raged on Mount Kenya, devouring thousands of hectares of ancient forests and endangered wildlife.\n\nMost of the peaks on Mount Kenya have been summited. The majority of these involve rock climbing as the easiest route, although some only require a scramble or a walk. The highest peak that can be ascended without climbing is Point Lenana, . The majority of the 15,000 visitors to the national park each year climb this peak. In contrast, approximately 200 people summit Nelion and 50 summit Batian, the two highest peaks.\n\nWhen ascended directly, Batian is usually climbed via the North Face Standard Route, UIAA grade IV+ (or 5.6+ YDS). It was first ascended on 31 July 1944 by Firmin and Hicks. The route is usually climbed in two days. The Normal Route is the most climbed route up Nelion, and thence across to Batian. It was first climbed by Shipton and Wyn-Harris on 6 January 1929. It is possible to traverse between the two peaks, via the Gates of Mist, but this often involves spending a night in the Howell hut on top of Nelion. There is a bolted abseil descent route off Nelion.\n\nMount Kenya's climbing seasons are a result of its location only from the equator. During the northern summer the rock routes on the north side of the peak are in good summer condition, while at the same time the ice routes on the south side of the peak are prime shape. The situation is reversed during the southern summer. The two seasons are separated by several months of rainy season before and after, during which climbing conditions are generally unfavorable.\n\nMount Kenya is home to several good ice routes, the two most famous being the Diamond Couloir and the Ice Window route. Snow and ice levels on the mountain have been retreating at an accelerated rate in recent years, making these climbs increasingly difficult and dangerous. The Diamond Couloir, a steep ice couloir fed by the fusion of the upper Diamond Glacier and pioneered in 1975 by Yvon Chouinard and Michael Covington, was once climbable in summer or winter but now is virtually unclimbable in summer conditions and is seldom deemed in climbable condition even in winter. Last climbing reports describe the route very difficult, especially in the lower section. The route has changed into a modern ice climb with a very difficult 60m first pitch, starting with 8m of overhanging M7 dry tooling, followed by 50m of USA Grade V ice and by others 6 pitches of moderate climbing on good ice and finally one pitch of water ice USA Grade IV+ ice at the headwall before getting to the Upper Diamond Glacier.\n\nThe satellite peaks around the mountain also provide good climbs. These can be climbed in Alpine style and vary in difficulty from a scramble to climbing at UIAA grade VI. They are useful for acclimatisation before climbing the higher peaks and as ascents in their own right.\n\nThere are eight walking routes up to the main peaks. Starting clockwise from the north these are the: Meru, Chogoria, Kamweti, Naro Moru, Burguret, Sirimon and Timau Routes.\nOf these Chogoria, Naro Moru and Sirimon are used most frequently and therefore have staffed gates. The other routes require special permission from the Kenya Wildlife Service to use.\n\nThe Chogoria route leads from Chogoria town up to the peaks circuit path. It heads through the forest to the south-east of the mountain to the moorland, with views over areas such as Ithanguni and the Giant's Billiards Table before following the Gorges Valley past the Temple and up to Simba Col below Point Lenana. The Mountain Club of Kenya claims that Ithanguni and the Giant's Billiards Table offer some of the best hillwalking in Kenya.\n\nThe Naro Moru route is taken by many of the trekkers who try to reach Point Lenana. It can be ascended in only 3 days and has bunkhouses at each camp. The route starts at Naro Moru town to the west of the mountain and climbs towards Mackinder's Camp before joining the Peak Circuit Path. The terrain is usually good, although one section is called the Vertical Bog.\n\nThe Sirimon route approaches Mount Kenya from the north-west. The path splits on the moorlands, with the more frequently used fork following the Mackinder Valley and the quieter route traversing into the Liki North Valley. The paths rejoin at Shipton's Cave just below Shipton's Camp on the Peak Circuit Path.\n\nThe Peak Circuit Path is a path around the main peaks, with a distance of about and height gain and loss of over . It can be walked in one day, but more commonly takes two or three. It can also be used to join different ascent and descent routes. The route does not require technical climbing.\n\nDevelopment is currently underway for a new route up the mountain starting from the Ragati conservancy and running up the ridge between the Naro Moru route and the old Kamweti trail.\n\nAccommodation on Mount Kenya ranges from very basic to luxurious. The more luxurious lodges are found on the lower slopes, in and around the forest.\nThese lodges have hotel-style accommodation, often with log fires and hot running water. Many offer guided walks and other activities such as fishing and birdwatching.\n\nThe huts higher on the mountain are more basic. Most have several bunkrooms with beds, and also offer somewhere to rest, cook and eat. Some also have running water. A few huts are very basic bothies and offer only a space to sleep that is sheltered from the weather. Beds in the huts can be reserved at the park gates.\nCamping is allowed anywhere in the National Park, but it is most encouraged around the huts to limit environmental impact. It is possible for campers to use the communal spaces in the huts for no extra fee.\n\nThe origin of the name Kenya is not clear, but perhaps linked to the Kikuyu, Embu and Kamba words \"Kirinyaga\", \"Kirenyaa\" and \"Kiinyaa\" which mean \"God's resting place\" in all three languages.\n\nIn the 19th Century, the German explorer, Ludwig Krapf, recorded the name as both \"Kenia\" and \"Kegnia\" believed by some to be a corruption of the Kamba version.\nOthers however say that this was on the contrary a very precise notation of the correct African pronunciation .\n\nIn any case, the name was for a long time pronounced by colonial-heritage Europeans as . The European pronunciation has been abandoned in modern times, in favor of the African version.\n\nThe peaks of Mount Kenya have been given names from three different sources. Firstly, several Maasai chieftains have been commemorated, with names such as Batian, Nelion and Lenana. They commemorate Mbatian, a Maasai Laibon (Medicine Man), Nelieng, his brother, and Lenana and Sendeyo, his sons. Terere is named after another Maasai headman.\n\nThe second type of names that were given to peaks are after European climbers and explorers. Some examples of this are Shipton, Sommerfelt, Tilman, Dutton and Arthur.\n\nThe remaining names are after well-known Kenyan personalities, with the exception of John and Peter, which were named by the missionary Arthur after two disciples. There is a group of four peaks to the east of the main peaks named after European settlers; Coryndon, Grigg, Delamere and McMillan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24219359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24219359", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Estonia", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Estonia\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Estonia (EE), the three levels are:\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Estonia can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55020067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55020067", "title": "Nawish (crater)", "text": "Nawish (crater)\n\nNawish is a small crater on Ceres, it is also in the western end of Hanami Planum. It is named after the Acoma guardian of the field. It was officially named by the IAU on July 3, 2015 and being one of the second row of names of a Cerean crater.\n\nNearby prominent craters include Ezinu to the north and Heneb to the south. Nearly halfway to the north is Junina Catenae.\n"}
{"id": "22359089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22359089", "title": "Otse Hill", "text": "Otse Hill\n\nOtse Hill is a peak often cited as the highest point of Botswana, with a reported altitude of 1,491 metres (4,891 feet). It is located in the village of Otse, South-East District. Its highest cell on SRTM data is 1,486 meters - 4875 feet. The 1999 Department of Surveys and Mapping (Gaborone) 1:50,000 scale topographic map shows a \"trigonometrical station\" on the Otse Peak summit with an elevation of 1,491 meters - 4892 feet.\n\nThe Monalanong Hill (at a SRTM-derived altitude of 1,494 metres - 4,902 feet) or the Tsodilo Hills (at an altitude of about 1400 metres - 4,593 feet) are also often given as the highest point in Botswana.\n\n"}
{"id": "4190350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190350", "title": "Overdispersion", "text": "Overdispersion\n\nIn statistics, overdispersion is the presence of greater variability (statistical dispersion) in a data set than would be expected based on a given statistical model.\n\nA common task in applied statistics is choosing a parametric model to fit a given set of empirical observations. This necessitates an assessment of the fit of the chosen model. It is usually possible to choose the model parameters in such a way that the theoretical population mean of the model is approximately equal to the sample mean. However, especially for simple models with few parameters, theoretical predictions may not match empirical observations for higher moments. When the observed variance is higher than the variance of a theoretical model, overdispersion has occurred. Conversely, underdispersion means that there was less variation in the data than predicted. Overdispersion is a very common feature in applied data analysis because in practice, populations are frequently heterogeneous (non-uniform) contrary to the assumptions implicit within widely used simple parametric models.\n\nOverdispersion is often encountered when fitting very simple parametric models, such as those based on the Poisson distribution. The Poisson distribution has one free parameter and does not allow for the variance to be adjusted independently of the mean. The choice of a distribution from the Poisson family is often dictated by the nature of the empirical data. For example, Poisson regression analysis is commonly used to model count data. If overdispersion is a feature, an alternative model with additional free parameters may provide a better fit. In the case of count data, a Poisson mixture model like the negative binomial distribution can be proposed instead, in which the mean of the Poisson distribution can itself be thought of as a random variable drawn – in this case – from the gamma distribution thereby introducing an additional free parameter (note the resulting negative binomial distribution is completely characterized by two parameters).\n\nAs a more concrete example, it has been observed that the number of boys born to families does not conform faithfully to a binomial distribution as might be expected. Instead, the sex ratios of families seem to skew toward either boys or girls (see, for example the Trivers–Willard hypothesis for one possible explanation) i.e. there are more all-boy families, more all-girl families and not enough families close to the population 51:49 boy-to-girl mean ratio than expected from a binomial distribution, and the resulting empirical variance is larger than specified by a binomial model.\n\nIn this case, the beta-binomial model distribution is a popular and analytically tractable alternative model to the binomial distribution since it provides a better fit to the observed data. To capture the heterogeneity of the families, one can think of the probability parameter of the binomial model (say, probability of being a boy) as itself a random variable (i.e. random effects model) drawn for each family from a beta distribution as the mixing distribution. The resulting compound distribution (beta-binomial) has an additional free parameter.\n\nAnother common model for overdispersion—when some of the observations are not Bernoulli—arises from introducing a normal random variable into a logistic model. Software is widely available for fitting this type of multilevel model. In this case, if the variance of the normal variable is zero, the model reduces to the standard (undispersed) logistic regression. This model has an additional free parameter, namely the variance of the normal variable.\n\nWith respect to binomial random variables, the concept of overdispersion makes sense only if n>1 (i.e. overdispersion is nonsensical for Bernoulli random variables).\n\nAs the normal distribution (Gaussian) has variance as a parameter, any data with finite variance (including any finite data) can be modeled with a normal distribution with the exact variance – the normal distribution is a two-parameter model, with mean and variance. Thus, in the absence of an underlying model, there is no notion of data being overdispersed relative to the normal model, though the fit may be poor in other respects (such as the higher moments of skew, kurtosis, etc.). However, in the case that the data is modeled by a normal distribution with an expected variation, it can be over- or under-dispersed relative to that prediction.\n\nFor example, in a statistical survey, the margin of error (determined by sample size) predicts the sampling error and hence dispersion of results on repeated surveys. If one performs a meta-analysis of repeated surveys of a fixed population (say with a given sample size, so margin of error is the same), one expects the results to fall on normal distribution with standard deviation equal to the margin of error. However, in the presence of study heterogeneity where studies have different sampling bias, the distribution is instead a compound distribution and will be overdistributed relative to the predicted distribution. For example, given repeated opinion polls all with a margin of error of 3%, if they are conducted by different polling organizations, one expects the results to have standard deviation greater than 3%, due to pollster bias from different methodologies.\n\nOver- and underdispersion are terms which have been adopted in branches of the biological sciences. In parasitology, the term 'overdispersion' is generally used as defined here – meaning a distribution with a higher than expected variance.\n\nIn some areas of ecology, however, meanings have been transposed, so that overdispersion is actually taken to mean more even (lower variance) than expected. This confusion has caused some ecologists to suggest that the terms 'aggregated', or 'contagious', would be better used in ecology for 'overdispersed'. Such preferences are creeping into parasitology too. Generally this suggestion has not been heeded, and confusion persists in the literature.\n\nFurthermore in demography, overdispersion is often evident in the analysis of death count data, but demographers prefer the term 'unobserved heterogeneity'.\n\n"}
{"id": "491787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491787", "title": "Position fixing", "text": "Position fixing\n\nPosition fixing is the branch of navigation concerned with the use of a variety of visual and electronic methods to determine the position of a vehicle or person on the surface of the Earth.\n\nThese techniques include:\n\n\nPositions may be expressed as a bearing and range from a known landmark or as an angles of latitude and longitude relative to a map datum.\n\nGenerally speaking a position fix is calculated by taking into account measurements (referred to as observations) of distances or angles to reference points whose positions are known. In 2D surveys observations of three reference points are enough to compute a position in a two dimensional plane. In practice observations are subject to errors resulting from various physical and atmospheric factors that influence the measurement of distances and angles.\n\nA practical example of obtaining a position fix would be for a ship to take bearing measurements on three lighthouses positioned along the coast. These measurements could be made visually using a hand bearing compass, or in poor visibility electronically using radar or radio direction finding. Since all physical observations are subject to errors the resulting position fix is also subject to error. Although in theory two lines of position (LOP) are enough to define a point, in practice 'crossing' more LOPs provides greater accuracy and confidence, especially if the lines cross at a good angle to each other. Three LOPs are considered the minimum for a practical navigational fix. The three LOPs when drawn on the chart will in general form a triangle, known as a 'cocked hat'. The navigator will have more confidence in a position fix that is formed by a small cocked hat with angles close to those of an equilateral triangle. \n\nIt is not true to say that the navigator's true position is 'definitely' within the cocked hat on the chart. The area of doubt surrounding a position fix is called an error ellipse. To minimize the error, electronic navigation systems generally use more than three reference points to compute a position fix to increase the data redundancy. As more redundant reference points are added the position fix becomes more accurate and the area of the resulting error ellipse decreases.\n\nThe process of combining multiple observations to compute a position fix is equivalent to solving a system of linear equations. Navigation systems use regression algorithms such as Least squares in order to compute a position fix in 3D space. This is most commonly done by combining distance measurements to 4 or more GPS satellites, which orbit the earth along paths of predetermined position.\n\n"}
{"id": "81274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81274", "title": "Rachel Carson", "text": "Rachel Carson\n\nRachel Louise Carson (May 27, 1907 – April 14, 1964) was an American marine biologist, author, and conservationist whose book \"Silent Spring\" and other writings are credited with advancing the global environmental movement.\n\nCarson began her career as an aquatic biologist in the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries, and became a full-time nature writer in the 1950s. Her widely praised 1951 bestseller \"The Sea Around Us\" won her a U.S. National Book Award, recognition as a gifted writer, and financial security. Her next book, \"The Edge of the Sea\", and the reissued version of her first book, \"Under the Sea Wind\", were also bestsellers. This sea trilogy explores the whole of ocean life from the shores to the depths.\n\nLate in the 1950s, Carson turned her attention to conservation, especially some problems that she believed were caused by synthetic pesticides. The result was the book \"Silent Spring\" (1962), which brought environmental concerns to an unprecedented share of the American people. Although \"Silent Spring\" was met with fierce opposition by chemical companies, it spurred a reversal in national pesticide policy, which led to a nationwide ban on DDT and other pesticides. It also inspired a grassroots environmental movement that led to the creation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Carson was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Jimmy Carter.\n\nRachel Carson was born on May 27, 1907, on a family farm near Springdale, Pennsylvania, just up the Allegheny River from Pittsburgh. She was the daughter of Maria Frazier (McLean) and Robert Warden Carson, an insurance salesman. She spent a lot of time exploring around her family's farm. An avid reader, she began writing stories (often involving animals) at age eight and had her first story published at age ten. She especially enjoyed the \"St. Nicholas Magazine\" (which carried her first published stories), the works of Beatrix Potter, and the novels of Gene Stratton-Porter, and in her teen years, Herman Melville, Joseph Conrad and Robert Louis Stevenson. The natural world, particularly the ocean, was the common thread of her favorite literature. Carson attended Springdale's small school through tenth grade, then completed high school in nearby Parnassus, Pennsylvania, graduating in 1925 at the top of her class of forty-five students.\n\nAt the Pennsylvania College for Women (today known as Chatham University), as in high school, Carson was somewhat of a loner. She originally studied English, but switched her major to biology in January 1928, though she continued contributing to the school's student newspaper and literary supplement. Though admitted to graduate standing at Johns Hopkins University in 1928, she was forced to remain at the Pennsylvania College for Women for her senior year due to financial difficulties; she graduated \"magna cum laude\" in 1929. After a summer course at the Marine Biological Laboratory, she continued her studies in zoology and genetics at Johns Hopkins in the fall of 1929.\n\nAfter her first year of graduate school, Carson became a part-time student, taking an assistantship in Raymond Pearl's laboratory, where she worked with rats and \"Drosophila\", to earn money for tuition. After false starts with pit vipers and squirrels, she completed a dissertation project on the embryonic development of the pronephros in fish. She earned a master's degree in zoology in June 1932. She had intended to continue for a doctorate, but in 1934 Carson was forced to leave Johns Hopkins to search for a full-time teaching position to help support her family during the Great Depression. In 1935, her father died suddenly, worsening their already critical financial situation and leaving Carson to care for her aging mother. At the urging of her undergraduate biology mentor Mary Scott Skinker, she settled for a temporary position with the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries, writing radio copy for a series of weekly educational broadcasts entitled \"Romance Under the Waters\". The series of fifty-two seven minute programs focused on aquatic life and was intended to generate public interest in fish biology and in the work of the bureau, a task the several writers before Carson had not managed. Carson also began submitting articles on marine life in the Chesapeake Bay, based on her research for the series, to local newspapers and magazines.\n\nCarson's supervisor, pleased with the success of the radio series, asked her to write the introduction to a public brochure about the fisheries bureau; he also worked to secure her the first full-time position that became available. Sitting for the civil service exam, she outscored all other applicants and, in 1936, became the second woman hired by the Bureau of Fisheries for a full-time professional position, as a junior aquatic biologist.\n\nAt the U.S. Bureau of Fisheries, Carson's main responsibilities were to analyze and report field data on fish populations, and to write brochures and other literature for the public. Using her research and consultations with marine biologists as starting points, she also wrote a steady stream of articles for \"The Baltimore Sun\" and other newspapers. However, her family responsibilities further increased in January 1937 when her older sister died, leaving Carson as the sole breadwinner for her mother and two nieces.\n\nIn July 1937, the \"Atlantic Monthly\" accepted a revised version of an essay, \"The World of Waters\", that she originally wrote for her first fisheries bureau brochure. Her supervisor had deemed it too good for that purpose. The essay, published as \"Undersea\", was a vivid narrative of a journey along the ocean floor. It marked a major turning point in Carson's writing career. Publishing house Simon & Schuster, impressed by \"Undersea\", contacted Carson and suggested that she expand it into a book. Several years of writing resulted in \"Under the Sea Wind\" (1941), which received excellent reviews but sold poorly. In the meantime, Carson's article-writing success continued—her features appeared in \"Sun Magazine\", \"Nature\", and \"Collier's\". Carson attempted to leave the Bureau (by then transformed into the United States Fish and Wildlife Service) in 1945, but few jobs for naturalists were available, as most money for science was focused on technical fields in the wake of the Manhattan Project. In mid-1945, Carson first encountered the subject of DDT, a revolutionary new pesticide — lauded as the \"insect bomb\" after the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki — that was only beginning to undergo tests for safety and ecological effects. DDT was but one of Carson's many writing interests at the time, and editors found the subject unappealing; she published nothing on DDT until 1962.\nCarson rose within the Fish and Wildlife Service, by 1945 supervising a small writing staff and in 1949 becoming chief editor of publications. Though her position provided increasing opportunities for field work and freedom in choosing her writing projects, it also entailed increasingly tedious administrative responsibilities. By 1948, Carson was working on material for a second book, and had made the conscious decision to begin a transition to writing full-time. That year, she took on a literary agent, Marie Rodell; they formed a close professional relationship that would last the rest of Carson's career.\n\nOxford University Press expressed interest in Carson's book proposal for a life history of the ocean, spurring her to complete by early 1950 the manuscript of what would become \"The Sea Around Us\". Chapters appeared in \"Science Digest\" and \"The Yale Review\" — the latter chapter, \"The Birth of an Island\", winning the American Association for the Advancement of Science's George Westinghouse Science Writing Prize. Nine chapters were serialized in \"The New Yorker\" beginning June 1951 and the book was published July 2, 1951, by Oxford University Press. \"The Sea Around Us\" remained on The New York Times Best Seller list for 86 weeks, was abridged by \"Reader's Digest\", won the 1952 National Book Award for Nonfiction and the John Burroughs Medal, and resulted in Carson's being awarded two honorary doctorates. She also licensed a documentary film based on it. \"The Sea\" success led to the republication of \"Under the Sea Wind\", which became a bestseller itself. With success came financial security, and in 1952 Carson was able to give up her job in order to concentrate on writing full time.\n\nCarson was inundated with speaking engagements, fan mail and other correspondence regarding \"The Sea Around Us\", along with work on the documentary script that she had secured the right to review. She was very unhappy with the final version of the script by writer, director and producer Irwin Allen; she found it untrue to the atmosphere of the book and scientifically embarrassing, describing it as \"a cross between a believe-it-or-not and a breezy travelogue.\" She discovered, however, that her right to review the script did not extend to any control over its content. Allen proceeded in spite of Carson's objections to produce a very successful documentary. It won the 1953 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature, but Carson was so embittered by the experience that she never again sold film rights to her work.\n\nCarson first met Dorothy Freeman in the Summer of 1953 in Southport Island, Maine. Freeman had written to Carson welcoming her to the area when she had heard that the famous author was to become her neighbor. It was the beginning of an extremely close friendship that would last the rest of Carson's life. Their relationship was conducted mainly through letters, and during summers spent together in Maine. Over the course of 12 years, they would exchange somewhere in the region of 900 letters. Many of these were published in the book \"Always, Rachel\", published in 1995 by Beacon Press.\n\nCarson's biographer, Linda J. Lear, writes that \"Carson sorely needed a devoted friend and kindred spirit who would listen to her without advising and accept her wholly, the writer as well as the woman.\" She found this in Freeman. The two women had a number of common interests, nature chief among them, and began exchanging letters regularly while apart. They would share summers for the remainder of Carson's life, and meet whenever else their schedules permitted.\n\nIn regard to the extent of their relationship, commentators have said that: \"the expression of their love was limited almost wholly to letters and very occasional farewell kisses or holding of hands\". Freeman shared parts of Carson's letters with her husband to help him understand the relationship, but much of their correspondence was carefully guarded.\n\nShortly before Carson's death, she and Freeman destroyed hundreds of letters. The surviving correspondence was published in 1995 as \"Always, Rachel: The Letters of Rachel Carson and Dorothy Freeman, 1952–1964: An Intimate Portrait of a Remarkable Friendship\", edited by Freeman's granddaughter. According to one reviewer, the pair \"fit Carolyn Heilbrun's characterization of a strong female friendship, where what matters is 'not whether friends are homosexual or heterosexual, lovers or not, but whether they share the wonderful energy of work in the public sphere'.\"\n\nEarly in 1953, Carson began library and field research on the ecology and organisms of the Atlantic shore. In 1955, she completed the third volume of her sea trilogy, \"The Edge of the Sea\", which focuses on life in coastal ecosystems, particularly along the Eastern Seaboard. It appeared in \"The New Yorker\" in two condensed installments shortly before its October 26 book release by Houghton Mifflin (again a new publisher). By this time, Carson's reputation for clear and poetical prose was well established; \"The Edge of the Sea\" received highly favorable reviews, if not quite as enthusiastic as for \"The Sea Around Us\".\n\nThrough 1955 and 1956, Carson worked on a number of projects — including the script for an \"Omnibus\" episode, \"Something About the Sky\" — and wrote articles for popular magazines. Her plan for the next book was to address evolution, but the publication of Julian Huxley's \"Evolution in Action\" — and her own difficulty in finding a clear and compelling approach to the topic — led her to abandon the project. Instead, her interests were turning to conservation. She considered an environment-themed book project tentatively titled \"Remembrance of the Earth\" and became involved with The Nature Conservancy and other conservation groups. She also made plans to buy and preserve from development an area in Maine she and Freeman called the \"Lost Woods.\"\n\nEarly in 1957, family tragedy struck a third time when one of the nieces she had cared for in the 1940s died at the age of 31, leaving a five-year-old orphan son, Roger Christie. Carson took on that responsibility, adopting the boy, alongside caring for her aging mother. This took a considerable toll on Carson. She moved to Silver Spring, Maryland, to care for Roger, and much of 1957 was spent putting their new living situation in order and focusing on specific environmental threats.\n\nBy late 1957, Carson was closely following federal proposals for widespread pesticide spraying; the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) planned to eradicate fire ants, and other spraying programs involving chlorinated hydrocarbons and organophosphates were on the rise. For the rest of her life, Carson's main professional focus would be the dangers of pesticide overuse.\n\n\"Silent Spring\", Carson's best-known book, was published by Houghton Mifflin on 27 September 1962. The book described the harmful effects of pesticides on the environment, and is widely credited with helping launch the environmental movement. Carson was not the first, or the only person to raise concerns about DDT, but her combination of \"scientific knowledge and poetic writing\" reached a broad audience and helped to focus opposition to DDT use. In 1994, an edition of \"Silent Spring\" was published with an introduction written by Vice President Al Gore. In 2012 \"Silent Spring \"was designated a National Historic Chemical Landmark by the American Chemical Society for its role in the development of the modern environmental movement.\n\nStarting in the mid-1940s, Carson had become concerned about the use of synthetic pesticides, many of which had been developed through the military funding of science since World War II. It was the United States federal government's 1957 gypsy moth eradication program, however, that prompted Carson to devote her research, and her next book, to pesticides and environmental poisons. The gypsy moth program involved aerial spraying of DDT and other pesticides (mixed with fuel oil), including the spraying of private land. Landowners on Long Island filed a lawsuit to have the spraying stopped, and many in affected regions followed the case closely. Though the suit was lost, the Supreme Court granted petitioners the right to gain injunctions against potential environmental damage in the future; this laid the basis for later successful environmental actions.\n\nThe Audubon Naturalist Society also actively opposed such spraying programs, and recruited Carson to help make public the government's exact spraying practices and the related research. Carson began the four-year project of what would become \"Silent Spring\" by gathering examples of environmental damage attributed to DDT. She also attempted to enlist others to join the cause: essayist E. B. White, and a number of journalists and scientists. By 1958, Carson had arranged a book deal, with plans to co-write with \"Newsweek\" science journalist Edwin Diamond. However, when \"The New Yorker\" commissioned a long and well-paid article on the topic from Carson, she began considering writing more than simply the introduction and conclusion as planned; soon it was a solo project. (Diamond would later write one of the harshest critiques of \"Silent Spring\").\n\nAs her research progressed, Carson found a sizable community of scientists who were documenting the physiological and environmental effects of pesticides. She also took advantage of her personal connections with many government scientists, who supplied her with confidential information. From reading the scientific literature and interviewing scientists, Carson found two scientific camps when it came to pesticides: those who dismissed the possible danger of pesticide spraying barring conclusive proof, and those who were open to the possibility of harm and willing to consider alternative methods such as biological pest control.\n\nShe also found significant support and extensive evidence from a group of Biodynamic agriculture organic market gardeners, their adviser, Dr. Ehrenfried Pfeiffer, other contacts, and their suite of legal actions (1957-1960) against the U.S. Government. According to recent research by Paull (2013), this may have been the primary and (for strategic reasons) uncredited source for Carson’s book. Marjorie Spock and Mary T. Richards, of Long Island, New York, contested the aerial spraying of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT). They compiled their evidence and shared it with Carson, who used it, their extensive contacts, and the trial transcripts, as a primary input for \"Silent Spring\". Carson wrote of the content as \"a gold mine of information\" and says, \"I feel guilty about the mass of your material I have here” and makes multiple references to Pfeiffer and to his correspondence.\n\nBy 1959, the USDA's Agricultural Research Service responded to the criticism by Carson and others with a public service film, \"Fire Ant on Trial\"; Carson characterized it as \"flagrant propaganda\" that ignored the dangers that spraying pesticides (especially dieldrin and heptachlor) posed to humans and wildlife. That spring, Carson wrote a letter, published in \"The Washington Post\", that attributed the recent decline in bird populations — in her words, the \"silencing of birds\" — to pesticide overuse. That was also the year of the \"Great Cranberry Scandal\": the 1957, 1958, and 1959 crops of U.S. cranberries were found to contain high levels of the herbicide aminotriazole (which caused cancer in laboratory rats) and the sale of all cranberry products was halted. Carson attended the ensuing FDA hearings on revising pesticide regulations; she came away discouraged by the aggressive tactics of the chemical industry representatives, which included expert testimony that was firmly contradicted by the bulk of the scientific literature she had been studying. She also wondered about the possible \"financial inducements behind certain pesticide programs.\"\n\nResearch at the Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health brought Carson into contact with medical researchers investigating the gamut of cancer-causing chemicals. Of particular significance was the work of National Cancer Institute researcher and environmental cancer section founding director Wilhelm Hueper, who classified many pesticides as carcinogens. Carson and her research assistant Jeanne Davis, with the help of NIH librarian Dorothy Algire, found evidence to support the pesticide-cancer connection; to Carson the evidence for the toxicity of a wide array of synthetic pesticides was clear-cut, though such conclusions were very controversial beyond the small community of scientists studying pesticide carcinogenesis.\n\nBy 1960, Carson had more than enough research material, and the writing was progressing rapidly. In addition to the thorough literature search, she had investigated hundreds of individual incidents of pesticide exposure and the human sickness and ecological damage that resulted. However, in January, a duodenal ulcer followed by several infections kept her bedridden for weeks, greatly delaying the completion of \"Silent Spring\". As she was nearing full recovery in March (just as she was completing drafts of the two cancer chapters of her book), she discovered cysts in her left breast, one of which necessitated a mastectomy. Though her doctor described the procedure as precautionary and recommended no further treatment, by December Carson discovered that the tumor was malignant and the cancer had metastasized. Her research was also delayed by revision work for a new edition of \"The Sea Around Us\", and by a collaborative photo essay with Erich Hartmann. Most of the research and writing was done by the fall of 1960, except for the discussion of recent research on biological pest controls and investigations of a handful of new pesticides. However, further health troubles slowed the final revisions in 1961 and early 1962.\n\nIt was difficult finding a title for the book; \"Silent Spring\" was initially suggested as a title for the chapter on birds. By August 1961, Carson finally agreed to the suggestion of her literary agent Marie Rodell: \"Silent Spring\" would be a metaphorical title for the entire book, suggesting a bleak future for the whole natural world, rather than a literal chapter title about the absence of birdsong. With Carson's approval, editor Paul Brooks at Houghton Mifflin arranged for illustrations by Louis and Lois Darling, who also designed the cover. The final writing was the first chapter, \"A Fable for Tomorrow\", which Carson intended as a gentle introduction to what might otherwise be a forbiddingly serious topic. By mid-1962, Brooks and Carson had largely finished the editing, and were laying the groundwork for promoting the book by sending the manuscript out to select individuals for final suggestions.\n\nAs biographer Mark Hamilton Lytle writes, Carson \"quite self-consciously decided to write a book calling into question the paradigm of scientific progress that defined post-war American culture.\" The overriding theme of \"Silent Spring\" is the powerful — and often adverse — effect humans have on the natural world.\n\nCarson's main argument is that pesticides have detrimental effects on the environment; they are more properly termed \"biocides\", she argues, because their effects are rarely limited to the target pests. DDT is a prime example, but other synthetic pesticides come under scrutiny as well, many of which are subject to bioaccumulation. Carson also accuses the chemical industry of intentionally spreading disinformation and public officials of accepting industry claims uncritically. Most of the book is devoted to pesticides' effects on natural ecosystems, but four chapters also detail cases of human pesticide poisoning, cancer, and other illnesses attributed to pesticides. About DDT and cancer, the subject of so much subsequent debate, Carson says only a little:\nCarson predicted increased consequences in the future, especially as targeted pests develop pesticide resistance, while weakened ecosystems fall prey to unanticipated invasive species. The book closes with a call for a biotic approach to pest control as an alternative to chemical pesticides.\n\nIn regards to the pesticide DDT, Carson never actually called for an outright ban. Part of the argument she made in \"Silent Spring\" was that even if DDT and other insecticides had \"no\" environmental side effects, their indiscriminate overuse was counter-productive because it would create insect resistance to the pesticide(s), making the pesticides useless in eliminating the target insect populations:\n\nCarson further noted that \"Malaria programmes are threatened by resistance among mosquitoes\" and emphasized the advice given by the director of Holland's Plant Protection Service: \"Practical advice should be 'Spray as little as you possibly can' rather than 'Spray to the limit of your capacity'...Pressure on the pest population should always be as slight as possible.\"\n\nCarson and the others involved with publication of \"Silent Spring\" expected fierce criticism. They were particularly concerned about the possibility of being sued for libel. Carson was also undergoing radiation therapy to combat her spreading cancer, and expected to have little energy to devote to defending her work and responding to critics. In preparation for the anticipated attacks, Carson and her agent attempted to amass as many prominent supporters as possible before the book's release.\n\nMost of the book's scientific chapters were reviewed by scientists with relevant expertise, among whom Carson found strong support. Carson attended the White House Conference on Conservation in May 1962; Houghton Mifflin distributed proof copies of \"Silent Spring\" to many of the delegates, and promoted the upcoming \"New Yorker\" serialization. Among many others, Carson also sent a proof copy to Supreme Court Associate Justice William O. Douglas, a long-time environmental advocate who had argued against the court's rejection of the Long Island pesticide spraying case (and who had provided Carson with some of the material included in her chapter on herbicides).\n\nThough \"Silent Spring\" had generated a fairly high level of interest based on pre-publication promotion, this became much more intense with the serialization in \"The New Yorker\", which began in the June 16, 1962, issue. This brought the book to the attention of the chemical industry and its lobbyists, as well as a wide swath of the American populace. Around that time Carson also learned that \"Silent Spring\" had been selected as the Book of the Month for October; as she put it, this would \"carry it to farms and hamlets all over that country that don't know what a bookstore looks like — much less \"The New Yorker\".\" Other publicity included a positive editorial in \"The New York Times\" and excerpts of the serialized version in \"Audubon\" magazine, with another round of publicity in July and August as chemical companies responded. The story of the birth defect-causing drug thalidomide broke just before the book's publication as well, inviting comparisons between Carson and Frances Oldham Kelsey, the Food and Drug Administration reviewer who had blocked the drug's sale in the United States.\nIn the weeks leading up to the September 27, 1962, publication, there was strong opposition to \"Silent Spring\" from the chemical industry. DuPont (a main manufacturer of DDT and 2,4-D) and Velsicol Chemical Corporation (exclusive manufacturer of chlordane and heptachlor) were among the first to respond. DuPont compiled an extensive report on the book's press coverage and estimated impact on public opinion. Velsicol threatened legal action against Houghton Mifflin as well as \"The New Yorker\" and \"Audubon\" unless the planned \"Silent Spring\" features were canceled. Chemical industry representatives and lobbyists also lodged a range of non-specific complaints, some anonymously. Chemical companies and associated organizations produced a number of their own brochures and articles promoting and defending pesticide use. However, Carson's and the publishers' lawyers were confident in the vetting process \"Silent Spring\" had undergone. The magazine and book publications proceeded as planned, as did the large Book-of-the-Month printing (which included a pamphlet endorsing the book by William O. Douglas).\n\nAmerican Cyanamid biochemist Robert White-Stevens and former Cyanamid chemist Thomas Jukes were among the most aggressive critics, especially of Carson's analysis of DDT. According to White-Stevens, \"If man were to follow the teachings of Miss Carson, we would return to the Dark Ages, and the insects and diseases and vermin would once again inherit the earth.\" Others went further, attacking Carson's scientific credentials (because her training was in marine biology rather than biochemistry) and her personal character. White-Stevens labeled her \"...a fanatic defender of the cult of the balance of nature,\" while former U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ezra Taft Benson, in a letter to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower, reportedly concluded that because she was unmarried despite being physically attractive, she was \"probably a Communist.\"\n\nMany critics repeatedly asserted that she was calling for the elimination of all pesticides. Yet Carson had made it clear she was not advocating the banning or complete withdrawal of helpful pesticides, but was instead encouraging responsible and carefully managed use with an awareness of the chemicals' impact on the entire ecosystem. In fact, she concludes her section on DDT in \"Silent Spring\" not by urging a total ban, but with advice for spraying as little as possible to limit the development of resistance.\n\nThe academic community, including prominent defenders such as H. J. Muller, Loren Eiseley, Clarence Cottam, and Frank Egler, by and large backed the book's scientific claims; public opinion soon turned Carson's way as well. The chemical industry campaign backfired, as the controversy greatly increased public awareness of potential pesticide dangers, as well as \"Silent Spring\" book sales. Pesticide use became a major public issue, especially after the \"CBS Reports\" TV special \"The Silent Spring of Rachel Carson\" that aired April 3, 1963. The program included segments of Carson reading from \"Silent Spring\" and interviews with a number of other experts, mostly critics (including White-Stevens); according to biographer Linda Lear, \"in juxtaposition to the wild-eyed, loud-voiced Dr. Robert White-Stevens in white lab coat, Carson appeared anything but the hysterical alarmist that her critics contended.\" Reactions from the estimated audience of ten to fifteen million were overwhelmingly positive, and the program spurred a congressional review of pesticide dangers and the public release of a pesticide report by the President's Science Advisory Committee. Within a year or so of publication, the attacks on the book and on Carson had largely lost momentum.\n\nIn one of her last public appearances, Carson testified before President John F. Kennedy's Science Advisory Committee. The committee issued its report on May 15, 1963, largely backing Carson's scientific claims. Following the report's release, she also testified before a United States Senate subcommittee to make policy recommendations. Though Carson received hundreds of other speaking invitations, she was unable to accept the great majority of them. Her health was steadily declining as her cancer outpaced the radiation therapy, with only brief periods of remission. She spoke as much as she was physically able, however, including a notable appearance on \"The Today Show\" and speeches at several dinners held in her honor. In late 1963, she received a flurry of awards and honors: the Audubon Medal (from the National Audubon Society), the Cullum Geographical Medal (from the American Geographical Society), and induction into the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\n\nWeakened from breast cancer and her treatment regimen, Carson became ill with a respiratory virus in January 1964. Her condition worsened, and in February, doctors found that she had severe anemia from her radiation treatments and in March they discovered that the cancer had reached her liver. She died of a heart attack on April 14, 1964, in her home in Silver Spring, Maryland.\n\nHer body was cremated and the ashes buried beside her mother at Parklawn Memorial Gardens, Rockville, Maryland. Some of her ashes were later scattered along the coast of Southport Island, near Sheepscot Bay, Maine.\n\nCarson bequeathed her manuscripts and papers to Yale University, to take advantage of the new state-of-the-art preservations facilities of the Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library. Her longtime agent and literary executor Marie Rodell spent nearly two years organizing and cataloging Carson's papers and correspondence, distributing all the letters to their senders so that only what each correspondent approved would be submitted to the archive.\n\nIn 1965, Rodell arranged for the publication of an essay Carson had intended to expand into a book: \"A Sense of Wonder\". The essay, which was combined with photographs by Charles Pratt and others, exhorts parents to help their children experience the \"...lasting pleasures of contact with the natural world ... available to anyone who will place himself under the influence of earth, sea and sky and their amazing life.\"\n\nIn addition to the letters in \"Always Rachel\", in 1998 a volume of Carson's previously unpublished work was published as \"Lost Woods: The Discovered Writing of Rachel Carson\", edited by Linda Lear. All of Carson's books remain in print.\n\nCarson's work had a powerful impact on the environmental movement. \"Silent Spring\", in particular, was a rallying point for the fledgling social movement in the 1960s. According to environmental engineer and Carson scholar H. Patricia Hynes, \"\"Silent Spring\" altered the balance of power in the world. No one since would be able to sell pollution as the necessary underside of progress so easily or uncritically.\" Carson's work, and the activism it inspired, are at least partly responsible for the deep ecology movement, and the overall strength of the grassroots environmental movement since the 1960s. It was also influential on the rise of ecofeminism and on many feminist scientists.\n\nWhile there remains no evidence that Carson was openly a women's rights activist, her work and its subsequent criticisms have left an iconic legacy for the ecofeminist movement. Attacks on Carson's credibility included criticism of her credentials in which she was labeled an \"amateur\" and it was said that her writing was too \"emotional.\" Ecofeminist scholars argue that not only was the dissenting rhetoric gendered to paint Carson as hysterical, but was done because her arguments challenged the capitalist production of large agri-business corporations. Others, such as Yaakov Garb, suggest that in addition to not being a women's rights activist, Carson also had no anti-capitalist agenda and that such attacks were unwarranted. Additionally, the way photos of Carson were used to portray her are often questioned because of few representations of her engaging in work typical of a scientist, but instead, of her leisure activities.\n\nCarson's most direct legacy in the environmental movement was the campaign to ban the use of DDT in the United States (and related efforts to ban or limit its use throughout the world). Though environmental concerns about DDT had been considered by government agencies as early as Carson's testimony before the President's Science Advisory Committee, the 1967 formation of the Environmental Defense Fund was the first major milestone in the campaign against DDT. The organization brought lawsuits against the government to \"establish a citizen's right to a clean environment,\" and the arguments employed against DDT largely mirrored Carson's. By 1972, the Environmental Defense Fund and other activist groups had succeeded in securing a phase-out of DDT use in the United States (except in emergency cases).\n\nThe creation of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by the Nixon Administration in 1970 addressed another concern that Carson had brought to light. Until then, the same agency (the USDA) was responsible both for regulating pesticides and promoting the concerns of the agriculture industry; Carson saw this as a conflict of interest, since the agency was not responsible for effects on wildlife or other environmental concerns beyond farm policy. Fifteen years after its creation, one journalist described the EPA as \"the extended shadow of \"Silent Spring\".\" Much of the agency's early work, such as enforcing the 1972 Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, was directly related to Carson's work.\n\nIn the 1980s, the policies of the Reagan Administration emphasized economic growth, rolling back many of the environmental policies adopted in response to Carson and her work.\n\nA variety of groups ranging from government institutions to environmental and conservation organizations to scholarly societies have celebrated Carson's life and work since her death. Perhaps most significantly, on June 9, 1980, Carson was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States. A 17¢ Great Americans series postage stamp was issued in her honor the following year; several other countries have since issued Carson postage as well. In 1973, Carson was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nThe University of California, Santa Cruz, named one of its colleges (formerly known as College Eight) to Rachel Carson College in 2016. Rachel Carson College is the first college at the University to bear a woman's name.\n\nCarson's birthplace and childhood home in Springdale, Pennsylvania, now known as the Rachel Carson Homestead, became a National Register of Historic Places site and the nonprofit Rachel Carson Homestead Association was created in 1975 to manage it. Her home in Colesville, Maryland where she wrote \"Silent Spring\" was named a National Historic Landmark in 1991. Near Pittsburgh, a hiking trail, called the Rachel Carson Trail and maintained by the Rachel Carson Trails Conservancy, was dedicated to Carson in 1975. A Pittsburgh bridge was also renamed in Carson's honor as the Rachel Carson Bridge. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection State Office Building in Harrisburg is named in her honor. Elementary schools in Gaithersburg, Montgomery County, Maryland, Sammamish, Washington and San Jose, California were named in her honor, as were middle schools in Beaverton, Oregon and Herndon, Virginia (Rachel Carson Middle School), and a high school in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nTwo research vessels have sailed in the United States bearing the name R/V \"Rachel Carson\". One is on the west coast, owned by Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI), and the other is on the east coast, operated by the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science. Another vessel of the name, now scrapped, was a former naval vessel obtained and converted by the United States EPA. it operated on the Great Lakes. The Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary also operates a mooring buoy maintenance vessel named the Rachel Carson.\n\nThe ceremonial auditorium on the third floor of EPA headquarters, the William Jefferson Clinton Federal Building, is named after Rachel Carson. The Rachel Carson Room is close to the EPA Administrator's office and has been the site of numerous important announcements, including the Clean Air Interstate Rule.\n\nA number of conservation areas have been named for Carson as well. Between 1964 and 1990, 650 acres (263 ha) near Brookeville in Montgomery County, Maryland were acquired and set aside as the Rachel Carson Conservation Park, administered by the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission. In 1969, the Coastal Maine National Wildlife Refuge became the Rachel Carson National Wildlife Refuge; expansions will bring the size of the refuge to about 9,125 acres (3,693 ha). In 1985, North Carolina renamed one of its estuarine reserves in honor of Carson, in Beaufort.\n\nCarson is also a frequent namesake for prizes awarded by philanthropic, educational and scholarly institutions. The Rachel Carson Prize, founded in Stavanger, Norway in 1991, is awarded to women who have made a contribution in the field of environmental protection. The American Society for Environmental History has awarded the Rachel Carson Prize for Best Dissertation since 1993. Since 1998, the Society for Social Studies of Science has awarded an annual Rachel Carson Book Prize for \"a book length work of social or political relevance in the area of science and technology studies.\" The Society of Environmental Journalists gives an annual award and two honourable mentions for books on environmental issues in Carson's name, such as was awarded to Joe Roman's \"\" in 2012.\n\nThe \"Rachel Carson\" sculpture in Woods Hole, Massachusetts was unveiled on July 14, 2013. Google created a Google Doodle for Carson's 107th birthday on May 27, 2014. Carson was featured during the \"HerStory\" video tribute to notable women on U2's tour in 2017 for the 30th anniversary of \"The Joshua Tree\" during a performance of \"Ultraviolet (Light My Way)\" from the band's 1991 album \"Achtung Baby\".\n\nThe centennial of Carson's birth occurred in 2007. On Earth Day (April 22), \"Courage for the Earth: Writers, Scientists, and Activists Celebrate the Life and Writing of Rachel Carson\" was released as \"a centennial appreciation of Rachel Carson's brave life and transformative writing.\" It contained thirteen essays by environmental writers and scientists. Democratic Senator Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland had intended to submit a resolution celebrating Carson for her \"legacy of scientific rigor coupled with poetic sensibility\" on the 100th anniversary of her birth. The resolution was blocked by Republican Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, who said that \"The junk science and stigma surrounding DDT — the cheapest and most effective insecticide on the planet — have finally been jettisoned.\" The Rachel Carson Homestead Association held a May 27 birthday party and sustainable feast at her birthplace and home in Springdale, Pennsylvania, and the first Rachel Carson Legacy Conference in Pittsburgh with E. O. Wilson as keynote speaker. Both Rachel's Sustainable Feast and the conference continue as annual events.\n\nAlso in 2007 American author Ginger Wadsworth wrote a biography of Carson.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCarson-related organizations\n"}
{"id": "53520545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53520545", "title": "Rahimberdi Annamoradnejad", "text": "Rahimberdi Annamoradnejad\n\nRahimberdi Annamoradnejad (Persian: رحيم‌بردي انامرادنژاد) (born 1961) is an Iranian urban planner. He is a professor of geography and urban planning at University of Mazandaran and holds the position of director-in-charge for journal of Urban Planning Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "6544030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6544030", "title": "Rushan, Shandong", "text": "Rushan, Shandong\n\nRushan is a county-level city in the prefecture-level city of Weihai, Shandong province, People's Republic of China. Rushan borders Yantai to the north and looks out to the Yellow Sea to the south.\n\nIt derives its name from a breast-shaped hill on the seashore.\n\nThe county-level city of Rushan administers 14 towns.\n\nRushan City has a long history. The first county in Rushan City was founded in 206 B.C. and named \"Yuli\".\n\nIt is located on the south-eastern seashore of Shandong Province in China at 36°7′ northern latitude and 121°5′ east of Greenwich.\n\nRushan has a mild, seasonal climate moderated by the Yellow Sea. August is the warmest month with a 24-hour average temperature of 23.5°C and January the coldest with 24-hour average temperature of 0 °C.\n\nIt is within 2 hours flight from major Chinese cities such as Beijing and Shanghai. Large and medium-sized cities around it are Qingdao, Yantai and Weihai, all within one-hour-drive from Rushan. Qingdao-Weihai Expressway, State Highway 309 and Jinan-Weihai Railway run across Rushan.\n\nRushan has fulfilled 31.31 billion RMB Yuan of GDP (around 5 billion US dollars and about $9000 per capita) in 2010. The total fixed asset investment was 19.01 RMB Yuan and the local fiscal revenue reached 1.33 billion RMB Yuan. Rushan is thus ranked No. 55 among all the Chinese counties in terms of economic competitiveness.\n\nWith a coast of 185 kilometers long, Rushan is known for its varieties of shellfishes and rare fish species. The annual seafood production is more than 200 thousand tons. Rich in hilly land, Rushan becomes the principal fruit producing base in Jiaodong Peninsula. It is also abundant in gold and silver, producing over 5 tons of gold each year, which makes it the 5th biggest gold producing county/city in China and wins it the good reputation of “Gold Ridge and Silver Beach” in China.\n\nRushan has many scenic spots such as Silver Beach Resort and Da Rushan Coastal Resort (both are AAAA scenic spots at state level), Juyushan National Forest Park, Tangshang Hot Spring and Shengshui Palace (a Holy Land of Taoism).\n\nMajor elementary schools include: Rushan Number One Experimental Elementary School（乳山第一实验小学）, Huangshanlu Elementary School （黄山路小学）, and Rushan Number Two Experimental Elementary School （乳山第二实验小学）.\nMajor middle schools include: Rushan Fuqian Middle School (乳山市府前中学）and Rushan Yiyuan Middle School (乳山市怡园中学）。\nMajor high schools include: Rushan Number One High School (乳山市第一中学）and Rushan Golden Mountain High School (乳山市金岭中学）。\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355578", "title": "San Nicolas Island", "text": "San Nicolas Island\n\nSan Nicolas Island (Tongva: \"Haraasnga\") is the most remote of California's Channel Islands, located 61 miles (98 km) from the nearest point on the mainland coast. It is part of Ventura County. The 14,562 acre (58.93 km or 22.753 sq mi) island is currently controlled by the United States Navy and is used as a weapons testing and training facility, served by Naval Outlying Field San Nicolas Island. The uninhabited island is defined by the United States Census Bureau as Block Group 9, Census Tract 36.04 of Ventura County, California. The Nicoleño Native American tribe inhabited the island until 1835. As of the 2000 U.S. Census, the island has since remained officially uninhabited, though the census estimates that at least 200 military and civilian personnel live on the island at any given time. The island has a small airport, though the 10,000 foot runway is the second longest in Ventura County (slightly behind the 11,102 ft. at the Naval Air Station Point Mugu) and several buildings, including telemetry reception antennas.\nArchaeological evidence suggests that San Nicolas Island has been occupied by humans for at least 10,000 years. For thousands of years, San Nicolas was the home of the Nicoleño people, who were probably related to the Tongva of the mainland and Santa Catalina Island. It was named for Saint Nicholas by Spanish explorer Sebastián Vizcaíno after he sighted the island on the saint's feast day (December 6) in 1602. The Nicoleños were evacuated in the early 19th century by the padres of the California mission system. Within a few years of their removal from the island, the Nicoleño people and their unique language became extinct.\n\nThe most famous resident of San Nicolas Island was the \"Lone Woman of San Nicolas Island\", christened Juana Maria; her birth name was never known to anyone on the mainland. She was left behind (explanations for this vary) when the rest of the Nicoleños were moved to the mainland. She resided on the island alone for 18 years before she was found by Captain George Nidever and his crew in 1853 and taken to Santa Barbara. Her story is famously told in the award-winning children's novel \"Island of the Blue Dolphins\" by Scott O'Dell.\n\nThe steam-schooner \"California\" and its two whale catchers \"Hawk\" and \"Port Saunders\" operated off San Nicolas in 1932 and 1937, catching about 30 fin whales off the island from October to early December in the former year.\n\nSan Nicolas Island was one of eight candidate sites to detonate the first atomic bomb before White Sands Proving Ground was selected for the Trinity nuclear test. Between 1957 and 1973, and in 2004 and 2010, U.S. military research rockets were launched from San Nicolas Island. The launchpad was situated at . It remains part of the Pacific Missile Range.\n\nSan Nicolas Island currently serves as a detachment of Naval Base Ventura County. In addition to Port Hueneme and Point Mugu, San Nicolas Island is military-owned and operated.\n\nComposed primarily of Eocene sandstone and shale, much of the island also has marine terrace deposits of Pleistocene age, indicating that it was probably completely submerged at that time. The entire western part of the island is covered with reddish-brown eolian dune deposits laid down during the early Holocene. In some places these deposits are more than 10 meters deep. Small quantities of volcanic rocks (primarily andesite) exist on the southeast end of the island.\n\nStone available to natives for tool making on San Nicolas Island was largely limited to metavolcanic (including porphyritic metavolcanic) and metasedimentary (mainly quartzite) rock. The metavolcanics are found in the form of cobbles within conglomerates and cobble-bearing mudstones. This material is dense and not easily workable.\n\nUnder the Köppen climate classification, San Nicolas Island features a semi-arid climate (Köppen \"BSk\") with mediterranean characteristics. Winters are mild with an average temperature of in February, the coolest month and is the season where most of the precipitation falls. Summers are dry and warm with an average of in September, indicating a seasonal lag. Temperatures above are rare, occurring on 2 days per summer. The average annual precipitation is , with the wettest month being February and the driest month being August. On average, there are 36 days with measurable precipitation.\n\nThere is little ecological diversity on San Nicolas Island. The island was heavily grazed by sheep until they were removed in 1943. Overgrazing and erosion have removed much of the topsoil from the island. Despite the degradation, three endemic plants are found on the island: \"Astragalus traskiae\", \"Eriogonum grande\" subspecies \"timorum\", and \"Lomatium insulare\".\n\nThe dominant plant community on the island is coastal bluff scrubland, with giant coreopsis (\"Coreopsis gigantea\") and coyote brush (\"Baccharis pilularis\") the most visible components. The few trees present today, including California fan palms (\"Washingtonia filifera\") were introduced in modern times. However, early written accounts and the remains of ancient plants in the form of calcareous root casts indicate that, prior to 1860, brush covered a portion of the island.\n\nThere are only three species of endemic land vertebrates on the island; the island night lizard (\"Xantusia riversiana\"), deer mouse (\"Peromyscus maniculatus exterus\"), and island fox (\"Urocyon littoralis dickeyi\"). Two other reptiles, the common side-blotched lizard (\"Uta stansburiana\"), and the southern alligator lizard (\"Elgaria multicarinatus\"), were at one time thought to be endemic, but an analysis of mitochondrial DNA indicates that both species were most likely introduced in recent times.\n\nMore than 10 endemic molluscs are known only from San Nicolas Island. These are \"Binneya notabilis\", \"Catinella rehderi\", \"Haplotrema duranti duranti\", \"Micrarionta feralis\", \"Micrarionta micromphala\", \"M. opuntia\", \"M. sodalis\", \"Nearctula rowellii longii\", \"Sterkia clementina\", and \"Xerarionta tyroni\" (ssp. \"tyroni\" and \"hemphilli\").\n\nLarge numbers of birds can be found on San Nicolas Island. Two species are of particular ecological concern: the western gull (\"Larus occidentalis\") and Brandt's cormorant (\"Phalacrocorax penicillatus\"), both of which are threatened by feral cats and island foxes.\n\nThe common housecat was one of the greatest threats to the island's wildlife until they were eradicated from the island. The cats killed cormorants, gulls, and the island night lizard. The Navy removed the cats in order to protect the birds' nesting areas. The cats arrived on the island before 1952, probably brought by navy officers that worked there. Many cats have been relocated to a specially prepared habitat in Ramona, in San Diego County. It is believed that there were no cats left by June 2010, but they weren't officially declared eradicated until 2012. Eradication efforts took 18 months and cost $3 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "22603476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22603476", "title": "Sink (geography)", "text": "Sink (geography)\n\nA geographic sink is a depression within an endorheic basin where water collects with no visible outlet. Instead of discharging, the collected water is lost due to evaporation and/or penetration (water sinking underground, e.g., to become groundwater in an aquifer). If the sink has karstic terrain, water will sink at a higher rate than the surface evaporation, and conversely if the lakebed or sink bed has a layer of soil that is largely impervious to water (hardpan), evaporation will predominate. Since dry lakes in sinks with hardpan have little penetration, they require more severe aridity/heat to eliminate collected water at a comparable rate as for a similar sink with appreciable penetration.\n\nDepending on losses, precipitation, and inflow (e.g., a spring, a tributary, or flooding); the temporal result of a lake in a sink may be a persistent lake, an intermittent lake, a playa lake (temporarily covered with water), or an ephemeral lake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49329", "title": "Strait of Juan de Fuca", "text": "Strait of Juan de Fuca\n\nThe Strait of Juan de Fuca (officially named Juan de Fuca Strait in Canada) is a large body of water about long that is the Salish Sea's outlet to the Pacific Ocean. The international boundary between Canada and the United States runs down the center of the Strait.\n\nIt was named in 1787 by the maritime fur trader Charles William Barkley, captain of the \"Imperial Eagle\", for Juan de Fuca, the Greek navigator who sailed in a Spanish expedition in 1592 to seek the fabled Strait of Anián. Barkley was the first non-indigenous person to find the strait, unless Juan de Fuca's story was true. The strait was explored in detail between 1789 and 1791 by Manuel Quimper, José María Narváez, Juan Carrasco, Gonzalo López de Haro, and Francisco de Eliza.\n\nThe USGS defines the Strait of Juan de Fuca as a channel. It extends east from the Pacific Ocean between Vancouver Island, British Columbia, and the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, to Haro Strait, San Juan Channel, Rosario Strait, and Puget Sound. The Pacific Ocean boundary is formed by a line between Cape Flattery and Tatoosh Island, Washington, and Carmanah Point (Vancouver Island), British Columbia. Its northern boundary follows the shoreline of Vancouver Island from Carmanah Point to Gonzales Point, then follows a continuous line east to Seabird Point (Discovery Island), British Columbia, Cattle Point (San Juan Island), Washington, Iceberg Point (Lopez Island), Point Colville (Lopez Island), and then to Rosario Head (Fidalgo Island). The eastern boundary runs south from Rosario Head across Deception Pass to Whidbey Island, then along the western coast of Whidbey Island to Point Partridge, then across Admiralty Inlet to Point Wilson (Quimper Peninsula). The northern coast of the Olympic Peninsula forms the southern boundary of the strait. In the eastern entrance to the Strait, the Race Rocks Archipelago is located in the high current zone halfway between Port Angeles, Washington, and Victoria, BC.\n\nLike the rest of the Salish Sea and surrounding regions, the climate of the Strait is disputed, with the Köppen system classifying it as Mediterranean, but most regional climatologists preferring oceanic. While the climate is mostly oceanic in nature, the dry summers result in the Mediterranean classification in the Köppen system. Rainfall ranges from over (temperate rainforest) conditions at the west end to as little as at the east end, near Sequim.\n\nBecause it is exposed to the generally westerly winds and waves of the Pacific, seas and weather in Juan de Fuca Strait are, on average, rougher than in the more protected waters inland, thereby resulting in a number of small-craft advisories.\n\nAn international vehicle ferry crosses the Strait from Port Angeles, Washington to Victoria, British Columbia several times each day, as do passenger ferries of the Washington State Ferry system, a seasonal private ferry connecting Port Angeles with Victoria, and a private high-speed ferry between Victoria and Seattle.\n\nThis strait remains the subject of a maritime boundary dispute between Canada and the United States. The dispute is only over the seaward boundary extending west from the mouth of the strait. The maritime boundary within the strait is not in dispute. Both governments have proposed a boundary based on the principle of equidistance, but with different basepoint selections, resulting in small differences in the line. Resolution of the issue should be simple, but has been hindered because it might influence maritime boundary issues between Canada and the United States. In addition, the government of British Columbia has rejected both equidistant proposals, instead arguing that the Juan de Fuca submarine canyon is the appropriate \"geomorphic and physiogeographic boundary\". The proposed equidistant boundary currently marks the northern boundary of the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary. British Columbia's position is based on the principle of natural prolongation which developed in international law. It poses a dilemma for the federal government of Canada. If Canada holds that the principle of natural prolongation applies to the Juan de Fuca Canyon on its Pacific Ocean coast, the assertion could undermine Canada's argument in the \"Gulf of Maine\" boundary dispute. In this Atlantic Ocean context, Canada favours an outcome based on the principle of equidistance.\n\nIn March 2008, the Chemainus First Nation proposed renaming the strait the \"Salish Sea\", an idea that reportedly met with approval by British Columbia's Aboriginal Relations Minister Mike de Jong, who pledged to put it before the B.C. cabinet for discussion. Making \"Salish Sea\" official required a formal application to the Geographical Names Board of Canada. A parallel American movement promoting the name had a different definition, combining of the Strait of Juan de Fuca and Puget Sound as well as the Strait of Georgia and related waters under the more general name \"Salish Sea\". This latter definition was made official in 2009 by geographic boards of Canada and the United States.\n\nIn October 2009, the Washington State Board of Geographic Names approved the Salish Sea toponym, not to replace the names of the Strait of Georgia, Puget Sound, and Strait of Juan de Fuca, but instead as a collective term for all three. The British Columbia Geographical Names Office passed a resolution only recommending that the name be adopted by the Geographical Names Board of Canada, should its US counterpart approve the name-change. The United States Board on Geographic Names approved the name on November 12, 2009.\n\nCounties along the Strait of Juan de Fuca:\nRegional districts along the Strait of Juan de Fuca:\n\nCertain groups of seabirds called common murre migrate north by swimming. Some Pacific Coast murres paddle north to the sheltered bays of the Strait of Juan de Fuca to feed on herring and other small fish.\n\nSome scenes from the film \"The Hunt for Red October\" were filmed in the Strait of Juan de Fuca in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "1994698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1994698", "title": "Swedish grid", "text": "Swedish grid\n\nThe Swedish grid (in Swedish Rikets Nät, RT 90) is the coordinate system used for government maps in Sweden. RT 90 is a slightly modified version of the RT 38 from 1938.\n\nWhile the system could be used with negative numbers to represent all four \"quarters\" of the earth (NE, NW, SE, and SW hemispheres), the standard application of RT 90 is only useful for the northern half of the eastern hemisphere where numbers are positive. The coordinate system is based on metric measures rooting from the crossing of the Prime Meridian and the Equator at 0,0. The Central Meridian used to be based on a meridian located at the old observatory in Stockholm, but today it is based on the Prime Meridian at Greenwich. The numbering system's first digit represents the largest distance, followed by what can be seen as fractional decimal digits (though without an explicit decimal point). Therefore X 65 is located half way between X 6 and X 7.\nThe coordinate grid is specified using two numbers, named X and Y, X being the south–north axis and Y the west–east axis. Two seven-digit numbers are sufficient to specify a location with a one m resolution. \n\nExample:\nX=6620000 Y=1317000 (X is the northing and Y is the easting) denotes a position 6620 km north of the Equator and -183 km (1317 km-1500 km) west of the Central Meridian, which happens to be somewhere near the town center of Arvika.\n\n"}
{"id": "33039708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33039708", "title": "Telephone numbers in Abkhazia", "text": "Telephone numbers in Abkhazia\n\nTelephone numbers in Abkhazia use codes owned by Georgia and by Russia.\n\nFormats: +995 44X 2XXXXX / +7 N40 XXX-XX-XX\n"}
{"id": "12765124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12765124", "title": "Telephone numbers in Norway", "text": "Telephone numbers in Norway\n\nBefore 1992, telephone numbers would consist of a 2 or 3-digit area code, and a 5 or 6-digit subscriber number. Example: (067) 85 000 and (04) 66 00 00.\nIn that year, a closed telephone numbering plan was adopted, with eight-digit telephone numbers incorporating the area code and full number dialling for local and national calls. Service numbers were to be three digits long, Directory numbers four digits and some companies were allocated five-digit numbers, ex. 07575.\nGSM telephony was introduced in 1993, and those numbers always start with the digit '4' or '9'.\n\nHistorically, the local operator would take emergency calls and forward them to the police, fire or local doctor. In 1964, the emergency number 000 was introduced. In 1985, a modernized emergency service was started at Haukeland hospital in Bergen for Hordaland. In 1986, the emergency numbers diverted to 001 for fire brigade, 002 for police and 003 for ambulance. These numbers changed to 110, 112 and 113 in 1994, when the international access code changed from 095 to 00.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "784698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=784698", "title": "Willem Blaeu", "text": "Willem Blaeu\n\nWillem Janszoon Blaeu (; 157121 October 1638), also abbreviated to Willem Jansz. Blaeu, was a Dutch cartographer, atlas maker and publisher. Along with his son Johannes Blaeu, Willem is considered one of the notable figures of the Netherlandish/Dutch school of cartography in its golden age (the 16th and 17th centuries).\n\nBlaeu was born at Uitgeest or Alkmaar. As the son of a well-to-do herring salesman, he was destined to succeed his father in the trade, but his interests lay more in mathematics and astronomy. Between 1594 and 1596, as a student of the Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe, he qualified as an instrument and globe maker. In 1600 he discovered the second ever variable star, now known as P Cygni.\n\nOnce he returned to Holland, he made country maps and world globes, and as he possessed his own printing works, he was able to regularly produce country maps in an atlas format, some of which appeared in the \"Atlas Novus\" published in 1635. In 1633 he was appointed map-maker of the Dutch East India Company. He was also an editor and published works of Willebrord Snell, Descartes, Adriaan Metius, Roemer Visscher, Gerhard Johann Vossius, Barlaeus, Hugo Grotius, Vondel and the historian and poet Pieter Corneliszoon Hooft. He died in Amsterdam.\n\nHe had two sons, Johannes and Cornelis Blaeu, who continued their father's mapmaking and publishing business after his death in 1638. Prints of the family's works are still sold today. Original maps are rare collector items.\n\nHis maps formed the bulk of the Atlas Maior, that became a collector's item in Amsterdam.\n\n\n\nInformation about Willem Blaeu:\n\nBooks published by Willem Blaeu:\n\nFor maps created by Willem Blaeu, but published by his son Joan Blaeu, go to Joan Blaeu#External links.\n\nInformation on how Willem Blaeu's maps perpetuated the European notion of America's Indians:\n"}
