{"id": "7684719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7684719", "title": "2006 Oaxaca protests", "text": "2006 Oaxaca protests\n\nThe Mexican state of Oaxaca was embroiled in a conflict that lasted more than seven months and resulted in at least seventeen deaths and the occupation of the capital city of Oaxaca by the Popular Assembly of the Peoples of Oaxaca (APPO). The conflict emerged in May 2006 with the police responding to a strike involving the local teachers' trade union by opening fire on non-violent protests. It has since grown into a broad-based movement pitting the Popular Assembly of the Peoples of Oaxaca (APPO) against the state's governor, Ulises Ruiz Ortiz. Protesters demand the removal or resignation of Ortiz, whom they accuse of political corruption and acts of repression. Multiple reports, including from international human rights monitors, have accused the Mexican government of using death squads, summary executions, and even violating Geneva Conventions standards that prohibit attacking and shooting at unarmed medics attending to the wounded.\nOne human rights observer has claimed over twenty-seven killed by the police violence. The dead include Brad Will, Emilio Alonso Fabián, José Alberto López Bernal, Fidel Sánchez García, and Esteban Zurita López.\nAfter the police fired on non-violent protesters, the teacher's union fought back and were able to force the police out of the city and establish a city-wide anarchist community for several months. The teacher's union and other worker's and community groups form the APPO which created large democratic assemblies for citizens.\n\nAccording to one activist who helped to found the APPO:So the APPO was formed to address the abuses and create an alternative. It was to be a space for discussion, reflection, analysis, and action. We recognized that it shouldn’t be just one organization, but rather a blanket coordinating body for many different groups. That is, not one ideology would prevail; we would focus on finding the common ground among diverse social actors. Students, teachers, anarchists, Marxists, churchgoers — everyone was invited.The APPO was born without a formal structure, but soon developed impressive organizational capacity. Decisions in the APPO are made by consensus within the general assembly, which was privileged as a decision-making body. In the first few weeks of our existence we created the APPO State Council. The council was originally composed of 260 people — approximately ten representatives from each of Oaxaca’s seven regions and representatives from Oaxaca’s urban neighborhoods and municipalities.The Provisional Coordination was created to facilitate the operation of the APPO through different commissions. A variety of commissions were established: judicial, finance, communications, human rights, gender equity, defense of natural resources, and many more. Proposals are generated in smaller assemblies of each sector of the APPO and then brought to the general assembly where they are debated further or ratified.There was deep tension in the group between the more radical and libertarian elements who rejected representative democracy and wanted to create a permanent self-organised society against the more conservative and moderate elements who wanted elections. Ultimately, the radicals were more successful and the elections were boycotted by most of the population. The APPO was also able to organise festivals, defensive measures, radio stations and a neighbourhood watch. The festivals, the 'Guelaguetza' thousands of people attended for free to see indigenous culture, dresses and dancing whilst graffiti artists packed the streets and covered the walls of the towns in anti-government and anti-capitalist messages. The APPO also used 'topiles' as a method of keeping the peace. These were neighbourhood watches that also doubled as a militia which fought off government soldiers often with little more than rocks and fireworks. If a criminal was found to be disturbing someone, a bell would be used to alert the nearest topile, who would either give them a minor fine or perhaps hold them for the night. The topiles were successful in organising first aid centres and garbage collection.\n\nIn May 2006, a teachers' strike began in the Zócalo in the Mexican city of Oaxaca. 2006 was the 25th consecutive year that Oaxaca's teachers had struck. Previously, the protests had generally lasted for one to two weeks and had resulted in small raises for teachers. The 2006 strike began in protest of the low funding for teachers and rural schools in the state, but was prompted to additionally call for the resignation of the state governor Ulises Ruiz Ortiz after 3000 police were sent to break up the occupation in the early morning of June 14, 2006. A street battle lasted for several hours that day, resulting in more than one hundred hospitalizations but no fatalities. Ortiz declared that he would not resign. \nIn response to the events of June 14, representatives of Oaxaca's state regions and municipalities, unions, non-governmental organizations, social organizations, cooperatives, and parents convened to form the Popular Assembly of the Peoples of Oaxaca (APPO, from its Spanish name, \"Asamblea Popular de los Pueblos de Oaxaca\"). On June 17 APPO reestablished encampments in the zocalo and declared itself to be the governing body of Oaxaca, plunging the city into a state of civil rebellion. Barricades were constructed across some streets in an effort to prevent further police raids. APPO began to seek country-wide solidarity with their movement and urged other states within Mexico to similarly organize popular assemblies at every level of social organization: neighborhoods, street blocks, unions, and towns. Various municipality offices across the state closed in unity. A popular mantra was, “No leader is going to solve our problems”.\nThough APPO did not boycott the Mexican national elections on July 2, Ulises Ruiz's Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) suffered electoral defeat in Oaxaca, a state they have ruled for seventy years.\n\nAPPO did agree to boycott the annual Guelaguetza festival in the final weeks of July. Protesters blocked access to the auditorium in which the festival is held using burned buses and miscellaneous trash, thus preventing the finalization of renovations to the facility. This action drew criticism due to the damage that some individuals did to the auditorium by starting fires and spray painting graffiti. Some of the graffiti said: \"Tourists, go home! In Oaxaca we are not capitalists\". As a result of the boycott, the government cancelled the celebration of the festival – in its stead the APPO held an alternative version of the cultural festival over the course of several days.\n\nThe action marked the lowest point of government for Ulises Ruiz, who subsequently left the State. He resided in Mexico City for a few months.\n\nAfter a few weeks of absence, the APPO assumed control of the city and started implementing their own law, while confrontations with State Police escalated.\n\nAugust 1 saw the beginning of APPO's break in of television and radio stations throughout the city. While all of these stations are no longer occupied by APPO members, the use of radio has been an important facet of the movement. APPO utilized the radio resources in order to communicate about possible threats from police and armed gangs, demand the removal of Ulises Ruiz and the release of political prisoners. During APPO's illegal occupation of the radio stations, pro-PRI and PRI-funded groups engaged in frequent late-night armed attacks on APPO-controlled radio stations and damaged their broadcasting equipment.\n\nThose attacks on the APPO-controlled radio stations represented an escalation of violence in a conflict that (despite constant rumors of threats) had remained relatively peaceful since the June 14 police raid. In what was called a \"cleanup operation\", armed groups of men attacked the APPO's barricades during the nights. The individuals involved were identified as members of pro-PRI organizations and as plain-clothes local police. These attacks, combined with other shootings and assassinations, resulted in the first deaths associated with the conflict, in which six APPO supporters were killed.\n\nOn September 14, striking teachers and APPO members took over the municipal building in Huautla de Jiménez, located in the Sierra Mazateca in northern Oaxaca. They retained control of the building until mid-January 2007 (months after the government regained control of Oaxaca City), when Oaxacan state police briefly occupied the city, patrolling the streets with large guns and guarding the \"municipio\" all hours of the day and night. \n\nThe leader of Mazatecan APPO, Agustín Sosa, was elected mayor (\"presidente\") of Huautla de Jiménez in November 2007, to a term beginning in January, 2008. Sosa is a longtime activist who spent many months in jail in 2004, accused of murder in the death of a protester (at the hands of the police) at a protest organized by Sosa. He bears no relation to Flavio Sosa, the still imprisoned leader of APPO.\n\nOn October 27, 2006, Bradley Roland Will, a U.S. Indymedia journalist from New York who had entered the country under a tourist visa, was killed along with Professor Emilio Alonso Fabián and Esteban López Zurita, in what the Associated Press has claimed was a \"shootout\" between protesters and a group of armed men. Photographs by Brad Will, however, demonstrate that the protesters were throwing rocks at the gunman. Photographs of Will, after he was shot, show a man lying on the ground, surrounded by friends, and not the \"armed gangs\" that the Associated Press has reported. An autopsy by the Mexican government has concluded that \"two shots\" were fired at Will, one from in front and one from behind (which, the government alleges, was fired by a protester). The body was never examined for blood clotting in the second wound, which would have demonstrated that it was \"implemented\" in the morgue. Brad Will's body was cremated. The family of Brad Will visited Mexico to demand justice from the court system, and upon hearing the accusation that their son was shot at close range by a protester, they called it \"ridiculous, false, without substance, biased, and unconvincing.\" They also accused the District Attorney of falsifying evidence and acting in bad faith.\n\nHowever, protesters claim the shooting was by a group of armed men against unarmed protesters. Oswaldo Ramírez, a photographer for Mexico City daily \"Milenio\", was also shot in the foot. Lizbeth Cana, attorney general of Oaxaca, claims the shooting of the protesters was provoked by the protesters themselves and that the armed men who engaged them were upset residents from the area. The U.S. ambassador to Mexico, Tony Garza, however, claims the men may have been local police. \"El Universal\" has identified some of the men as local officials. Protesters also allege that the men were police and not local residents. Indymedia claims from a first-hand witness that the man who shot Will was an \"urban paramilitary\" member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party. A local news organisation, Centro de Medios Libres, claims that from Will's recovered videotapes, they have found that Pedro Carmona, a paramilitary who was the mayor of Felipe Carrillo Puerto in Santa Lucía del Camino, was the person who shot Bradley Roland Will. Another shooting took place later in the day outside the state prosecutor's office, leading to three injuries.\n\nAn Associated Press report by Rebeca Romero (December 11, 2006, 12:33 am (ET)) claims, \"Most of the nine victims of the Oaxaca violence have been protesters who were shot by armed gangs...\" One protester, in response to the massive denunciations of the state-controlled media, has said, \"I saw a young boy shot in the leg, friends around me arrested left and right, bullets flying everywhere. The government needed someone to blame, and it came down heaviest on the people at the barricades, especially strategic barricades like Cinco Senores. They called us vandals and thieves and delinquents.\"\n\nThe death of Bradley Roland Will prompted President Vicente Fox to send federal police to Oaxaca after months of attempting to stay neutral in what he considered a local issue.\n\nAt least two protesters, Social Security Institute workers Roberto López Hernández and nurse and APPO safety commission member Jorge Alberto Beltrán, were killed when about 3,500 federal police and 3000 military police removed protesters in downtown Oaxaca's Zócalo, with a backup of 5,000 army troops waiting just outside the city. The police forces were met with resistance from protesters and Radio APPO reported police raids (which were denied by the federal government) on activists' homes, helicopters dropped chemical grenades (apparently tear gas) on protesters who had been pushed from the Zócalo. There were multiple unconfirmed reports of a young teenager, but rather a twelve-year old child, shot in the streets near Puente Tecnológico; the boy's body was reportedly taken by police. There have been some deaths according to local media, and while the APPO claims 'dozens' of deaths, the exact number is yet unknown. Protests continued, with sporadic clashes occurring around the Zócalo, which is held by Federal forces.\n\nNumerous people have been detained; footage shows at least four being removed in a PFP Mi-17 helicopter.\nThe Mexican Episcopate Conference, an organization of the Catholic Church, supported the intervention of the Federal Police in the conflict.\n\nOn October 30th, 2006, the Revolutionary Indigenous Clandestine Committee (CCRI) issued a notice condemning the government tactics and the killings, including that of a minor; through the communiqué, the EZLN indicated a four-point response, which included the closing of some highways in the southeast state of Chiapas, and their vocal support to the people of Oaxaca.\n\nAn open letter written \"to honor the memory\" of slain journalist Brad Will and support \"the Oaxacan people's efforts to establish a popular government that recognizes local traditions and values\", was signed in early November by numerous academics and activists, including Noam Chomsky, Naomi Klein, Michael Moore, Arundhati Roy, Starhawk and Howard Zinn.\n\nFederal Preventative Police advanced on the Benito Juárez Autonomous University of Oaxaca, occupied by students and displaced protesters from the Zocalo. Since the University is autonomous, the police are forbidden from entering the grounds, unless invited by the Rector.\n\nThousands of protesters arrived in the following hours, surrounding the police and eventually forcing them to withdraw from the area surrounding the university. The APPO has also received permission by the university rector, through threats of violence, to broadcast their messages through the university radio, which they have used to criticise political parties, the PRI specifically. Opinions against the APPO are quickly taken off the air\n\nAfter criticism by the private sector, political organizations and the press (specifically Grupo Formula's news anchor Denise Maerker) for his remarks towards the APPO the rector declared that he had requested respect for the rights of students and faculty and that a tentative operation by the Federal Police would not be a solution to the issue\n\nThree explosions in Mexico City destroyed a Scotiabank branch lobby, blew out windows at Mexico's Tribunal Federal Electoral (Federal Electoral Tribunal), and damaged the auditorium at PRI headquarters. Other homemade bombs were placed in a second Scotiabank branch and in front of the chain restaurant Sanborns, but these were disabled before exploding. A phone call was placed to authorities shortly before midnight which warned of the bombings.\n\nNone of the exploded bombs resulted in injuries or death.\n\nA coalition of five leftist guerrilla groups from Oaxaca claimed responsibility for the blasts. There are no known ties between these guerrilla groups and Oaxacan protesters, and APPO members denied any involvement in or knowledge of the bombings.\nDespite the presence of federal police in the city, the APPO has continued to organize, holding a Constitutional Congress in order to discuss plans to rewrite Oaxaca's political constitution. Likewise, in an attempt to broaden its focus throughout the state and develop future projects, the movement formed the State Council of the Popular Assembly of the Peoples of Oaxaca (CEAPPO). This new council will be formed of 260 representatives from the various regions of Oaxaca, including 40 members of the teachers' union. This represents a major development for the APPO's continuing attempts to develop alternative political proposals while still pushing for the removal of Ulises Ruiz.\n\nOn Saturday, November 25, 2006, a large clash between the federal police and demonstrators occurred in the evening following the seventh megamarch held by the APPO. The march began peacefully, but the situation turned violent when the police responded with tear gas and rubber bullets as protesters attempted to encircle the city's zócalo. It is unclear who instigated the violence, but the clash quickly spread through the city as protesters fought back with rocks and homemade PVC rockets. Police took the APPO encampment in the Santo Domingo plaza and arrested more than 160 people. Many APPO supporters were hospitalized, and the deaths of three protesters were reported but remain unconfirmed.\n\nOn Saturday, and continuing on Sunday, November 26, fires were set by the protesters to numerous vehicles, and fires also destroyed or damaged four buildings housing government offices (including a tax and court office), one university building, and an office building of a local trade association. Three hotels were also attacked, and some local businesses were looted.\n\nOn Monday, November 27, 2006, the Chief of the Federal Police, Ardelio Vargas, stated that they would no longer have any more tolerance for the APPO. \"There will be no more tolerance (...) those who go against the law will have their punishment. The warrants and orders of arrest are not ordered by the police, but by local and federal judges\", he said. Efforts have been made to follow through on these threats as movement leaders have been arrested and organizational offices have been raided. After indications that the APPO would assemble at the State University Campus following the weekends confrontations, Vargas said that \"there will be no violation of the autonomy of the University\"\n\nIn the following days the APPO removed the last of their barricades from the city and turned over control of the university radio station to the rector, citing lack of security. APPO leaders have gone into hiding, claiming a repressive crackdown by state authorities against those involved in the movement. The police have been accused of arresting teachers out of classrooms, beating detainees and false arrests.\n\nOn Monday, December 4, hours after he said at a news conference in Mexico City that he had gone to the capital to negotiate a peaceful solution, Flavio Sosa was arrested by police on charges related to the barricades, vandalism and irregular detentions carried out by some protesters. Sosa's brother, Horacio, and two other men were also arrested on unspecified charges. Flavio Sosa's heavy-set, bearded presence became an emblem of APPO. After his arrest, the PRD, through their speaker, Gerardo Fernandez Noroña, revealed that Sosa was a member of the party's National Council and said that this obliged them to assume Sosa's legal defense.\n\nThe following week, the federal police seized armament from Oaxaca's State Police and said that local forces were under investigation based on accusations of murder that the APPO made against them. The APPO reported that the federal government offered to not detain any other members of their movement.\n\nAt the heart of the continuing conflict are attitudes towards the state's governor, Ulises Ruiz, a member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party which governed Mexico for most of the 20th century, but which now is a minority in a nation where political power resides in 3 main parties. However, the main power struggle is between the rightist National Action Party and the leftist Democratic Revolutionary Party, leaving the Institutional Revolutionary Party free to form coalitions with one of the two parties. Ruiz is a polemical figure whom opponents accuse of stealing his 2004 election, suppressing the freedom of the press, destruction of public spaces and historical monuments in the city, and repression of political opponents. Protestors argue that the constitution gives the central government the power under certain circumstances to remove a sitting governor; the Senate of the Republic, voted on the issue and decided that those \"special circumstances\" are not to be found in Oaxaca.\n\nAs the conflict in Oaxaca has grown more intractable, outside pressure on Ruiz to resign has grown, but he has not shown signs of budging. The senate has blamed both the governor and the APPO for the violence that originated in the state, while the business group Coparmex in the state of Puebla and the then Secretary of the Interior Carlos Abascal have called for his resignation or blamed him for the conflict. The APPO has made his resignation or removal their one non-negotiable demand before they will agree to end the conflict.\n\n"}
{"id": "13635620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13635620", "title": "Akhak gwebeom", "text": "Akhak gwebeom\n\nThe Akhak gwebeom (, literally \"musical canon\") is a nine-volume treatise on music, written in Korea in the 15th century, in the Joseon Dynasty. It is written by hand in hanja, and depicts, in line drawings, most of the musical instruments in use at the time, with detailed descriptions and fingerings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4798220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4798220", "title": "Al-Hikma University (Baghdad)", "text": "Al-Hikma University (Baghdad)\n\nAl-Hikma University colllge () was a university in Baghdad founded in 1956 by members of the New England Province of the Society of Jesus ..Re-opening in 2010 in Baghdad, Iraq . Located in Yarmouk .Al “hikma” name mean in English \"wisdom\"\n\nFour American Jesuits were sent to Iraq in 1932 at the request of Pope Pius XI, upon the urging of the Patriarch of the Chaldean Catholic Church, as the Kingdom of Iraq prepared for its independence from Great Britain. There they founded Baghdad College, which soon became known as an institution of academic excellence.\n\nIn 1952 the decision was made to provide a university-level facility for the city. The buildings were designed and built by the Jesuits on a 195-acre campus.\nWhen it opened in The University's initial student body numbered 45 students, but, by the time that the university was closed, it was admitting about 150 each year, and there were 656 students in total.\n\nIn 1960, the construction of a new library building for Al-Hikma University commenced. It was funded by the Ford Foundation (Qubain 1966), but the Foundation expected the University to find the money for furnishing it. The building was completed in 1962, when the collection was around 20,000 volumes. Although the library was not architecturally commendable, it was reported to have attracted some imitators. The Library had a collection of 327 manuscripts, a private collection donated in 1965, which were catalogued with support funded by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation (Qazanchi 1970). In the late 1960s, Gurgis Awad (Librarian of the Iraqi Museum) donated his private collection to the Al-Hikma University Library (Zado 1990).\n\nAl-Hikma University's student body was extremely diverse in ethnicity, religion and gender. Students were roughly 40 percent Muslim, 32 percent Catholic, 21 percent Orthodox Christian, and about 7 percent Jewish. The staff was also mixed: roughly half of them were Jesuits, while Iraqi lay teachers, both Christian and Muslim, Fulbright professors, and a small group of volunteer teachers from abroad made up the rest.\n\nIn 1966, a law was passed under which the private universities were converted into public universities, but continued to charge tuition fees. In 1968, a new law nationalised Al-Hikma University. In autumn 1968, an Iraqi was imposed as president of the university. The University became the object of protests by groups of nationalist students. Eventually, in November, the American faculty of the university were expelled by the Baathist government, and the institution was integrated into Baghdad University. The college was seized, along with all the Jesuit's property, by the government the following year, and the foreign faculty was also expelled.\n\nReunions of graduates of both Baghdad College and Al-Hikma University continue to be held bi-annually. The most recent one was organised in Chicago in July 2006.\n\nThe history of the Jesuit mission in Iraq has been chronicled by the Rev. Joseph MacDonnell, S.J., late of Fairfield University, in his book \"Jesuits by the Tigris\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34299473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34299473", "title": "Albert Shaw Lectures on Diplomatic History", "text": "Albert Shaw Lectures on Diplomatic History\n\nThe Albert Shaw Lectures on Diplomatic History are annual lectures delivered at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland. The lectures were named after the benefactor, Albert Shaw of New York City who had received his Ph.D from Johns Hopkins University in history and who was editor of \"The American Review of Reviews\". Shaw lecturers over the years have included the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "11076879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11076879", "title": "American International School of Zagreb", "text": "American International School of Zagreb\n\nThe American International School of Zagreb is an international school located in Zagreb, Croatia, Europe. Founded in 1966.\n\nAIS Zagreb has a current enrollment of 255 students, from Junior-kindergarten to 12th grade, representing 35 countries. The school is governed by a five-member School Board; three of the members, including the Board Chair, are appointed by the United States Ambassador and two members are elected by the members of the PTA (Parent Teacher Association). Students who graduate from AISZ earn an American Diploma; in addition students can also earn an International Baccalaureate Diploma.\n\nStudents in middle school and high school have the opportunity to participate in the following CEESA athletics and activities: MS boys and girls cross country, MS boys soccer, HS boys soccer, HS HOSIC, MS Speech and Debate, MS Math Counts, MS Knowledge Bowl, HS Knowledge Bowl, MS boys and girls basketball, HS boys and girls basketball, MS Cultural Arts Festival, MS boys and girls volleyball, HS boys and girls tennis.\n\nAISZ is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. In November 2013 a Validation Team representing the Middle States Association (MSA) visited AISZ to review and verify the work of the school's self-study done by the school's Planning Team. The Validation Team confirmed that AISZ meets the 12 standards set by the MSA and, as a result, AISZ has been re-accredited until 2020.\nAISZ is also authorized by the International Baccalaureate Organization to offer the IB Diploma Program in grades 11 and 12. The IB Diploma is a rigorous academic program recognized by most universities around the world.\n\nAISZ is a member of:\n\nState Dept. http://www.state.gov/m/a/os/1392.htm\n\n<3. State Dept.> <http://www.state.gov/m/a/os/1392.htm/>\n\n"}
{"id": "32839558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32839558", "title": "Anne van den Ban", "text": "Anne van den Ban\n\nAnne Willem van den Ban (; 28 February 1928 – 7 May 2016) was a Dutch scholar, whose work focused on agricultural extension.\n\nVan den Ban (son of two extension agents) studied Agricultural Economics at the \"Landbouwhogeschool\" (agricultural university) in Wageningen between 1945 and 1953. The \"Landbouwhogeschool\" is currently known as Wageningen University (part of Wageningen University and Research Centre).\n\nIn an article that van den Ban wrote with Everett M. Rogers (from whom the diffusion of innovations theory originates), he describes how Professor E.W. Hofstee made a study-tour in 1950 of land-grant universities in the U.S. This study-tour was sponsored by the Marshall Plan. Hofstee had been impressed with the research on the adoption of new farm practices and when he returned to the \"landbouwhogeschool\" he stressed this topic in his lectures. Van den Ban, who was a student of Hofstee, chose the adoption of innovations as topic for his Master’s thesis.\n\nAfter completing military service, van den Ban started working for the Dutch Ministry of Agriculture, for which he did research on agricultural extension at the Department of Rural Sociology of the \"Landbouwhogeschool\". Based on this research, van den Ban obtained his PhD in 1963 with Prof. E.W. Hofstee being his tutor. His thesis was called \"Boer en landbouwvoorlichting: de communicatie van nieuwe landbouwmethoden\"(Farmer and agricultural extension, the communication of new farming practices). His work is believed to be the first empirical study on agricultural extension in Europe.\n\nIn 1964 van den Ban started the department of Extension Education. At the time of his retirement, in 1983, the department had grown to be one of the 5 largest departments at the \"Landbouwhogeschool\". Nowadays, this is the department of Communication Science with two sub-departments; Communication and Innovation Studies, and Communication Strategies. Although van den Ban retired from the department in 1983, he continued to work as a consultant in different countries, mainly in India and Tanzania.\n\nVan den Ban is advisor to the Executive Council of the International Society for Extension Education (INSEE) and received a Life Time Achievement Award in September 2008 for his \"outstanding contribution in the field of Extension Education, Agricultural Development and Rural Development\" from this organization\n\nVan den Ban was appointed an Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau for his outstanding scientific achievements on a national and international level on 15 September 2011. The award was presented during a meeting to mark the award of the 200th scholarship by the Anne van den Ban Scholarship Fund.\n\nThe work of van den Ban is well known throughout the world. In 1974 he published a book called \"Inleiding tot de voorlichtingskunde\", which was (together with Helen Stuart Hawkins from Australia) revised, translated and published as \"Agricultural Extension\" in 1988. By now it has been translated in 10 different languages. Cees Leeuwis revised this book with contributions from van den Ban and it was published as \"Communication for rural innovation: rethinking agricultural extension\" in 2004.\n\nVan den Ban did not limit his work to agricultural extension. With Maria Koelen he wrote a book on \"Health education and health promotion\" (2004). Different versions of this book were translated and published in 13 languages.\nOn 28 February 2008 (van den Ban’s 80th birthday) Wageningen University digitalized his life’s work and made this publicly available through their website. Over 230 publications are offered in open access.\n\n\n\n\nIn 1992, Anne van den Ban and G.J. Kerkhoven started a scholarship fund called \"Stichting Redelijk Studeren\" (which was translated as Sharing Responsibilities for Students). In 2005 the fund was renamed Anne van den Ban Scholarship Fund. The Anne van den Ban Scholarship Fund “...\"exists to enable promising students from developing countries to study at Wageningen University. The long-term goal is the training of talented experts who will go on to play leading roles in improving the agricultural production, rural development and environment in their own countries\".” As of September 2011, the fund supports the 200th student at Wageningen University.\n"}
{"id": "11028012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11028012", "title": "Boulder Outdoor Survival School", "text": "Boulder Outdoor Survival School\n\nThe Boulder Outdoor Survival School (BOSS) is a wilderness skills and survival school that has been teaching courses in southern Utah since 1968. BOSS has been based in the small town of Boulder, Utah since 1977. BOSS courses are known for being extremely challenging and for traveling through some of the most remote wilderness in the United States.\n\nIn 1968, a Brigham Young University professor named Larry Dean Olsen, author of \"Outdoor Survival Skills\", founded a program to take failing college students into the wilderness for 30 days. He traveled with them through challenges in the deep wilderness of southern Utah to give them the opportunity to build resilience, mental toughness, and adaptability. The initial course was a huge success, and students returned to BYU transformed. The BYU Survival Course (also called Youth Leadership 480) was born.\n\nFor the next 10 years, under the leadership of a determined group of instructors (Larry Mullins, Doug Nelson, Dave Wescott, and others), Youth Leadership 480 continued to take BYU students into the wilderness of Southern Utah to give them the chance to learn primitive skills and meet the challenges of the wilderness. When Larry Mullins was injured in 1973, Doug Nelson took over management of the program. Under Doug’s leadership the program flourished and grew. Doug streamlined and built the program in the university context, then in 1977 took it out from under the umbrella of BYU and incorporated it as an independent business in the small town of Boulder, Utah.\n\nDoug continued to run BOSS until 1985, when his friend (and another of Larry’s instructors) David Wescott took the reigns as owner. Dave and his wife Paula grew the program to include teaching the traditional skills of the Ancestral Puebloans and Fremont culture, adding more depth and a strong skills-focus to the program. He hired instructors who appreciated the history and legacy of indigenous people and who could teach the skills of so-called “primitive” cultures to modern outdoor enthusiasts. In the late 80s, BOSS began expanding beyond Utah, offering courses in Mexico. In 1988, David and other BOSS staff founded the Rabbitstick gathering in Idaho.\n\nBy 1990, in addition to its world-famous Field courses, BOSS was offering Skills courses intensively focusing on the practice of traditional skills. With topics ranging from ethnobotany to primitive pottery to stone tools, students had the opportunity to explore the world of these skills and the connection to human history they provide in greater depth, without the challenge of extreme hiking. In the 90s, BOSS also started running courses in Canada with Mors Kochanski.\n\nIn 1994, BOSS alumnus and past staff member Josh Bernstein returned to BOSS as Marketing and Administrative Director, opening a new office in Boulder, Colorado. Josh restructured the BOSS curriculum to include an even greater emphasis on traditional cultures, and eventually took over as owner in 1997. \n\nIn 2001, BOSS’s Field Office in Boulder, Utah moved from a 1/4 acre parcel of land to 41 acres on Highway 12. Jenny Stein joined BOSS as Customer Service manager, working from the Colorado office. In 2004, Jeff Sanders took over as Program Director. Under Jeff’s leadership, many systems were put in place that ensured smooth field operations, staff development, and consistent delivery of the BOSS curriculum. Under Jenny and Jeff’s supervision, the number of students, courses and staff continued to grow.\n\nIn late 2010, Steve Dessinger, Laurel Holding and Bryan Puskar - all long-time instructors of the school - were promoted to Director positions, and in 2014, Josh Bernstein passed the torch of ownership to Steve Dessinger.\n\nIn 2015, with the financial support of dedicated BOSS alumni, BOSS Instructor (now Board Member) Jessica Ewing and Laurel Holding established the first-ever BOSS Scholarship fund. Since then BOSS has been awarding grants to students demonstrating financial need and strong merit.\n\nAfter running the school for four years, Steve decided, with the support of other long-time BOSS staff, to transition the school to a 501(c)(3) organization. The nonprofit organization hit the ground running, with a board of directors initially made up of BOSS staff members Perry Tancredi, Jessica Ewing, Michael Denisoff, Charlie Detar, and Steve Dessinger. The board named Eli Loomis as BOSS’s first executive director. \n\nIn 2018, BOSS celebrated its 50th year of teaching tough wilderness programs and offering transformative experiences to students.\n\nThe BOSS philosophy includes teaching skills in context, using simple, durable technology, and building mental toughness and resilience through powerful experiences in the wilderness. One of their principles is, \"know more, carry less.\" In the field course, a BOSS staple since 1968, participants carry no tents, sleeping bags, portable stoves or backpacks, and carry little more than a knife, a poncho, and the clothes on their backs. BOSS believes in traveling light and having a positive impact on the land. Field courses last 7 days, 14 days or 28 days. They also offer specialty courses focusing intensively on primitive skills or navigation lasting 7 or 14 days. \n\nIn July 2006, Dave Buschow, a participant in one of BOSS' field courses died of dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. A lawsuit was filed by the participant's family in May, 2007, and was settled in November, 2007. There is a website, rememberdave.net, dedicated to Dave's memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "31579138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31579138", "title": "Broadcast Education Association", "text": "Broadcast Education Association\n\nThe Broadcast Education Association (BEA) is an international academic organization originating and operating mainly out of the United States. The BEA is devoted to multimedia research and teaching, and retains the historical purpose to prepare college students interested in telecommunications and electronic mass media for careers in radio and television. According to its website, the BEA slogan is “Educating for Tomorrow’s Media.”\n\nThe BEA consist of associate, institutional, individual, and student members. Associate members include; radio and television stations, academic research organizations, telephone and cable companies, publishers, high schools, and PR organizations, media manufacturers, and law firms. Institutional members include colleges and universities with electronic media programs. Individual members consist of professors and educators interested in multimedia pursuits. Student members consist of undergraduate and graduate students interested in multimedia.\n\nThe BEA hosts an annual convention with a research conference containing eighteen interest divisions, ranging from cultural perspectives (history, gender and sexuality, and law and policy, religion, etc.) to media production, aesthetics, and curriculum. Additionally, the BEA produces two peer-reviewed print research journals, \"The Journal of Broadcasting and Electronic Media\" and \"Journal of Radio and Audio Media\", as well as one editor-reviewed online journal on the topic of media pedagogy, \"Journal of Media Education\". Both print research journals have acceptance rates below 20%, while the annual convention typically maintains acceptance rates of 40%-70%.\n\nA broadcasting association in the United States, BEA underwent several name changes in the developmental years of the association. Initially organized in 1948, the small University Association for Professional Radio Education (UAPRE) almost ceased to exist because of a lack of organization leading to a lack of specific activities and goals.\n\nThe group reorganized in 1956 as the Association for Professional Broadcasting Education (APBE). At this point, the organization’s purpose was to combine broadcasters and educators through an affiliation with the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). In doing so, the APBE was working towards the goal of good career and liberal arts education in broadcasting. APBE began publishing Journal of Broadcasting, the quarterly scholarly journal, in the winter of 1956, and the \"Journal of Radio Studies\" (). In 1974, APBE changed its name to the Broadcast Education Association (BEA).\n\n"}
{"id": "47815173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47815173", "title": "CGS (schools)", "text": "CGS (schools)\n\nThis is a list of schools with these initials. Not all are known by their initials\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52775553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52775553", "title": "COPPE", "text": "COPPE\n\nThe Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Graduate Studies and Research in Engineering (Portuguese: \"Instituto Alberto Luiz Coimbra de Pós-Graduação e Pesquisa em Engenharia\"), often referred to as Coppe due to its original name (Coordenação dos Programas de Pós-Graduação e Pesquisa de Engenharia), is a research and learning center in the Center of Technology (CT) of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ). It has over 2,500 students in its 13 graduate engineering programs (Master's and Doctorate).\n\nCoppe is Latin America's largest center for research and education in engineering. It was founded in 1963 by the engineer Alberto Luiz Coimbra. Coppe has more than 100 facilities. The knowledge accumulated in Coppe’s facilities is channeled to the economic, technologic and social development of Brazil through contracts and agreements with companies, governments, and NGOs. These contracts are administered by the Coppetec Foundation. Since its creation in 1970, the Coppetec Foundation has administered more than 10,000 contracts and partnerships with national and international, private and state-owned companies and governmental and non-governmental agencies.\n\nIn 1994, Coppe created its technology-based Business Incubator. Coppe stimulated the establishment of the Federal University’s Science Park, which is located in the Fundão Island.\n\nCoppe offers thirteen graduate programs:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4873195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4873195", "title": "Car Tycoon", "text": "Car Tycoon\n\nCar Tycoon is a business simulation game that was released on January 5, 2003 by JoWooD Productions under the Fishtank Interactive brand name. It was the first major game by the developer, Vectorcome Development, and sees the player managing a company that develops and manufactures cars.\n\nThe game has been plagued by bugs from the start. Initially, the player could not save games. Eventually a patch was released that fixed this and a few other bugs, but the game still isn't entirely bug-free. Numerous bugs were never addressed, such as one related to the \"big customers\". In the game, the player is able to make offers to various local businesses requiring vehicles. The premise is to give the player another way to sell his or her cars. Unfortunately, this never works, as the offers are never accepted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32431302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32431302", "title": "Certificate in Management Studies", "text": "Certificate in Management Studies\n\nCertificate in Management Studies (CMS) also referred as Certificate in Management, Graduate Certificate in Management, Masters Entry Certificate in Management, is a UK undergraduate qualification normally comprising 3-4 modules of study in the area of Management. It forms the first half of Diploma in Management Studies (DMS).\n\nThe CMS & DMS form the pathway for many students going onto complete MBA's. Most of the institutions offering the CMS/DMS offer the MBA as the final stage or the credit for achieving the DMS can be transferred to another institution. The exams and coursework undertaken at this level serves as a foundation for similar assessment at the MBA level where there is a strong focus on research and written reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "48001380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48001380", "title": "Cheryl Lehman", "text": "Cheryl Lehman\n\nCheryl Lehman, also professionally known as Cheryl R. Lehman, is a professor at Hofstra University and an accounting academic.\n\nCheryl Lehman graduated with a bachelor's degree in accounting in 1975 from Queen's College of The City University of New York. She obtained a Master of Philosophy degree from New York University in 1982, from which she also obtained a doctorate in accounting in 1985, from the Graduate School of Business Administration.\n\nLehman is the founding editor of the book series \"Advances in Public Interest Accounting\". She is also a member of the Board of Editors of \"Critical Perspectives on Accounting\", and a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of the \"Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal\". She is also a member of the Board of Editors of \"Gender, Work and Organization\".\n\nLehman is the author of \"Accounting's Changing Role in Social Conflict\" (Markus Weiner, 1992) which has been translated into Japanese and Korean. Her articles have been published in such journals as \"Accounting, Organizations and Society\", \"Critical Perspectives on Accounting\". and the \"Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal\", among others.\n"}
{"id": "567915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567915", "title": "Coach (ice hockey)", "text": "Coach (ice hockey)\n\nCoach in ice hockey is the person responsible for directing the team during games and practices, prepares strategy and decides which players will participate in games.\n\nThe specific responsibilities of a coach vary according to the level at which they are coaching. For example, unique to coaching at the professional level, coaches need to have skills in dealing with the media. At the professional level, as each game is given great importance, a coach will analyse past games and prepare for future games. Coaches also are important in determining the style of hockey the team plays. While winning is a primary responsibility at the professional level, at the other extreme of minor hockey, teaching is given greater importance. In the case of coaching of youth hockey, while strategy and tactics are still required, there would be the added responsibility of teaching fundamental skills and the rules of the game, providing a fun and safe environment, developing character, teaching physical fitness and the ability to communicate in a positive manner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7486354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7486354", "title": "Dating coach", "text": "Dating coach\n\nDating coaches offer coaching and related products and services to improve their clients' success in dating and relationships. Through discussion, role-playing, behavior modeling, and other forms of direction, a dating coach trains clients to meet and attract romantic partners. Dating coaches may focus on topics important to the art of dating: interpersonal skills, flirting, psychology, sociology, compatibility, fashion and recreational activities. As dating coaches are unlicensed, their methods vary widely.\n\nDating coaches offer a wide range of services, such as electronic books and newsletters, personal coaching, small group seminars, and weekend workshops. One-on-one coaching can involve counselling and in-the-field coaching, which can involve practicing flirting or going out with a coach of the sex the client is attracted to on a mock date and being critiqued throughout the date. They are distinct from matchmakers because they coach people on finding their own dates whereas matchmakers arrange dates for their clients. Coaching styles and programs differ from provider to provider, and may include advice on the art of conversation, pickup lines, how to dress, appropriate forms of touch, the science of love, and anything else that may improve dating prospects. Others provide guidance on how to date multiple people simultaneously, without getting caught. Common elements of dating coaches' tips include the need to decide what you are looking for and remain positive. Some coaches claim to know what women want. \n\nSome dating coaches specialize in helping with online dating. This could include helping people rewrite their online profiles to obtain better results, start initial email conversations, get professional photo shoots, and so on.\n\nDating seminars are taught by coaches working for commercial dating companies. In these seminars, coaches teach participants to meet romantic partners. Sometimes dating coaches take the clients out in public to help the clients approach and seduce women. This method of teaching is heavily linked to the seduction community and the companies which cater to it.\n\nDifferent dating seminars can take vastly different approaches to the subject. Christian dating seminars, for example, may stress differences between love and lust and knowing one's own self-worth. Muslim dating seminars may also deal with how to find a mate without compromising religious principles.\n\nDating coaching is often stigmatized. Many people believe that teaching romance is demeaning and unethical, while many others believe it is impossible. These critics acknowledge that most people seek romantic advice, but argue that professional romantic coaching differs from amateur advice in scope and context. Others feel that dating presents challenges unsuited to amateur intervention, and that chaotic dating norms and mixed social messages necessitate some form of instruction. Further, they feel that personal romantic barriers differ from other sorts of personal barriers so that coaching can be uniquely fruitful. Moreover, many argue that changing social norms have been particularly challenging for men. Because many economic and social obstacles to relationship dissolution have been eroded, sex appeal and relationship smarts may be necessary to compensate for devalued traditional traits, such as a strong work ethic or good and stable income.\n\nThere is evidence that the stigma against dating coaches is weakening. Both the film \"Hitch\" (featuring Will Smith) and the reality TV show \"The Pick-up Artist\" indicate a growing awareness of the presence of dating coaches in society and their function. However, according to \"Salon\", most men wanting pickup tips do not get coaches but they read books. They could be consciously or subconsciously using women for entertainment purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "11328597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11328597", "title": "Delphian Society", "text": "Delphian Society\n\nThe Delphian Society was a national organization that promoted the education of women in the United States. This organization was founded around 1910 in Chicago.\n\nThe Delphian Society takes its name from the historical Oracle of Delphi of Phocis, Greece. \"Here in remote times Apollo was believed to reveal his wishes to men through the medium of a priestess, speaking under the influence of vaporous breath which rose from a yawning fissure. Her utterances were not always coherent and were interpreted to those seeking guidance by Apollo's priests.\" \n\nIn 1913, the Delphian Society wrote, \"We know full well today that no priestess upon a tripod can reveal to us the secrets of the future. A thorough understanding of the past must be the safest guide for coming years. No vapor can inspire sudden revelations--the result only of faithful effort and earnest thought. Yet the story of the ancient oracle charms us still and when a name was sought for a national organization, that had for its avowed purposed the promotion of educational interests in a continent, none was deemed more suitable than that which for so many years cast its gracious spell from one sea to another.\"\n\nThe Delphian Society was inspired by influential Harvard President, Charles William Eliot's belief that education serves the purpose of inspiring lifelong learning and those who do not receive it \"seem to live in a mental vacuum.\" However, \"Fifteen minutes a day of good reading would have given any one of this multitude a really human life.\" In response to his call for lifelong learning, the Delphian Society wrote, \"To meet this condition, which prevails through the length and breadth of our land, to stimulate a deeper interest, quicken a latent appreciation and facilitate the use of brief periods of freedom for self-improvement, the Delphian Society was organized and the Delphian Course of Reading made possible.\"\n\nIn 1913, the Delphian Society published the Delphian Course of Reading: \"A systematic plan of education, embracing the world's progress and development of the liberal arts.\" This ten volume course covers \"history, literature, philosophy, poetry, fiction, drama, art, ethics, music,\" however, \"Mathematics, being in its higher forms essential to few, has been omitted; languages, requiring the aid of a teacher, and such scenes as make laboratories necessary, are not included.\"\n\nIn 1928, the Delphian Society published several volumes of books containing an outline of human knowledge for the use of conversation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36638404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36638404", "title": "Diving instructor", "text": "Diving instructor\n\nA diving instructor is a person who trains underwater divers. This includes free-divers, recreational divers including the subcategory technical divers, and professional divers which includes military, commercial, public safety and scientific divers.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, there will generally be specific published codes of practice and guidelines for training, competence and registration of diving instructors, as they have a duty of care to their clients, and operate in an environment with intrinsic hazards which may be unfamiliar to the lay person.\n\nRecreational diving instructors are usually registered members of one or more recreational diver certification agencies.\n\nMilitary diving instructors are generally members of the armed force for which they train personnel.\n\nCommercial diving instructors may be required to register with national government appointed organisations, but there may be other requirements in some parts of the world.\n\nA diving instructor trains and assesses the competence of persons who intend to become underwater divers. The instructor may use training standards and materials provided by the certifying organisation, or may develop suitable training standards, depending on the training system and authority involved. Most recreational training and certification agencies provide suitable training materials and require their registered instructors to train and assess using the materials provided. \n\nCommercial diving schools may have a broader scope of options, and may be expected to develop and maintain their own training materials, which may be required to comply with a published training standard.\n\nIn 1953, Jack Atkinson, the first National Diving Officer of the British Sub-Aqua Club, and Colin McLeod started a system of training and accreditation for Third Class, Second Class and First Class Divers, which was based on the three-tier system with which they were familiar, as used for divers in the UK armed forces. This programme was developed over the next six years culminating in the first BSAC Diving Manual, published in 1959. Oscar Gugen, one of BSAC's founders, and George Brookes travelled the UK helping to set up branches of BSAC, all of which used amateur instructors to deliver the BSAC training programme within the club setting.\n\nIn 1955, Dottie Frazier became the world's first female scuba diving instructor. Dottie Frazier is also recognized as the first female hard-hat diver, first female instructor and the first female to own and operate her own dive shop. Along with diving, Frazier also paired with the United States Navy to design wet suits and dry suits for the military, as well as recreational divers. \n\nIn 1959, The YMCA developed the first nationally organised scuba diving course and certified their first skin and scuba diving instructors in the United States.\n\nA diving instructor is as a rule required to be qualified as a diver to at least the same level as the divers to be trained. Additional requirements vary.\n\nInstructors of professional divers are generally required to be qualified as supervisors for the level of diver they can train, and may also be required to have some qualification in adult education as facilitators, assessors or moderators, and to be registered with a governing body. There is usually also a requirement for some experience in the industry before a diver can be trained as a supervisor, and similarly before a supervisor can become an instructor. The actual requirements vary depending on the jurisdiction.\n\nIn South Africa a commercial diving instructor is registered by the Department of Labour for the class of diving they are considered competent to instruct, and can only instruct learner commercial divers through a commercial diving school, also registered with the Department of Labour. The minimum requirement for registration as a commercial diving instructor include registration and practical experience as a Diving Supervisor of the same class and certification or equivalent work experience as a training facilitator in adult education.\n\nFor example, the minimum requirement for registration as a Class IV Commercial Scuba Instructor would be:\nThe total time required is more than 4 years, including training and work experience.\n\nSimilar requirements apply to registration as surface supplied and saturation diving instructors. In each case the applicant must first be qualified and have appropriate work experience as a diver, then supervisor in the class of diving before being eligible for application for registration as an instructor for that class of diving.\n\nRecreational diving instructors may be subject to significantly less stringent requirements. These are set by the certification agencies to which they are affiliated, and may also be specifically or generally regulated by health and safety legislation. In the UK the Diving at Work Regulations specifically include training of recreational divers, while in the US and South Africa, the professional diving regulations specifically exclude recreational diving instruction.\n\nMinimum requirements to attend a recreational diving instructor training programme vary between certification agencies. The requirements for PADI Instructor Development Course (IDC) are 6 months as a certified diver, Registration as a PADI Divemaster, with 60 logged dives, a medical statement that the applicant does not suffer from a disqualifying medical condition and recent participation in PADI Emergency First Response training. The IDC takes five to seven days, and comprises two parts, Assistant Instructor training and Open Water Scuba Instructor training. During the IDC the candidate will learn PADI Standards and Procedures, The PADI system of instruction, diver safety and risk management, The role of the diving instructor in the recreational diving industry, and marketing and sales counseling for recreational diving business. 100 logged dives are required before the applicant can take the two-day Instructor Examination.\n\nA Master Instructor is a certificate given in recognition of a minimum level of experience in training divers after certification as a Diving Instructor, issued by PADI and SSI.\n\nPADI requires a minimum level of experience in a range of instruction activities, attendance at three or more instructor development seminars, a record of adherence to the official PADI training systems, support of the PADI organisation, and a quality assurance record which has been clean for at least six months. It is a prerequisite for application for course director.\n\nThe SSI rating of Master Instructor is issued in recognition of meeting the required level of experience in training and assessment of recreational scuba divers to SSI standards. No additional training is required. It is a required milestone before application for membership of the SSI Product Review Committee and for admission to an Instructor Trainer program.\n\nIn 1995, a study conducted on Queensland, Australia diving instructors showed that positive job satisfaction correlated with intention to remain in the dive industry and still active in their present job for the next 12 months. The same study also showed that wages were still a primary concern since it was first noted by Kessler in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "4218853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4218853", "title": "Douglas–Coldwell Foundation", "text": "Douglas–Coldwell Foundation\n\nThe Douglas–Coldwell Foundation is a left-wing Canadian think tank devoted, in the words of its slogan, to \"promoting education and research into social democracy.\" It was founded in 1971, and is based in Ottawa.\n\nThe Foundation was named for and inspired by Tommy Douglas, the first federal leader of the New Democratic Party from 1961 to 1971, and M. J. Coldwell, leader of its predecessor Co-operative Commonwealth Federation from 1942 to 1960. Both had desired a Canadian counterpart to the Fabian Society.\n\nIn 1987, it merged with the Ontario Woodsworth Memorial Foundation of Toronto, named for Coldwell's predecessor as CCF leader, J. S. Woodsworth.\n\nThe foundation has underwritten biographies of Douglas, Coldwell, Clarence Gillis, Stanley Knowles, and Grace MacInnis, and scholarships and lectureships at Canadian post-secondary institutions. The foundation also gives out yearly grants totalling up to $25,000 for projects supporting its mandate of \"promoting education and research in social democracy.\"\n\nThe foundation is a registered charitable foundation, contributions to which are tax-deductible in Canada; it accepts memberships and solicits donations from individuals and organizations in the general public. While predominantly associated with NDP members and activists, and concerned in part with the history and future of the party, it is an independent group with no administrative connection to any political party.\n\nTommy Douglas was the foundation's first president. Kalmen Kaplansky led the think tank in the 1980s and 1990s. Karl Bélanger became president of the foundation in November 2016.\n"}
{"id": "53491795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53491795", "title": "Education and technology", "text": "Education and technology\n\nOne of the defining features of development today is the relationship between education and technology, stimulated by the spectacular growth in internet connectivity and mobile penetration. We live in a connected world. An estimated 40% of the world’s population now uses the internet and this number is growing at a remarkable rate. While there are significant variations in internet connectivity among countries and regions, the number of households with such links in the global South has now overtaken those in the global North. Moreover, over 70% of mobile telephone subscriptions worldwide are now in the global South. Five billion people are expected to go from no to full connectivity within the next twenty years. However, there are still significant gaps among countries and regions, for example between urban and rural areas. Limited broadband speed and lack of connectivity hamper access to knowledge, participation in society and economic development.\n\nThe internet has transformed how people access information and knowledge, how they interact, and the direction of public management and business. Digital connectivity holds promise for gains in health, education, communication, leisure and well-being. Artificial intelligence advances, 3D printers, holographic recreation, instant transcription, voice-recognition and gesture-recognition software are only some examples of what is being tested. Digital technologies are reshaping human activity from daily life to international relations, from work to leisure, redefining multiple aspects of our private and public life.\n\nSuch technologies have expanded opportunities for freedom of expression and for social, civic and political mobilization, but they also raise important concerns. The availability of personal information in the cyber world, for example, brings up significant issues of privacy and security. New spaces for communication and socialization are transforming what constitutes the idea of ‘social’ and they require enforceable legal and other safeguards to prevent their overuse, abuse and misuse. Examples of such misuse of the internet, mobile technology and social media range from cyber-bullying to criminal activity, even to terrorism. In this new cyber world, educators need to better prepare new generations of ‘digital natives’ to deal with the ethical and social dimensions of not only existing digital technologies but also those yet to be invented.\n\nTechnology plays an increasingly significant role in improving access to education for people living in impoverished areas and developing countries. Charities like One Laptop per Child are dedicated to providing infrastructures through which the disadvantaged may access educational materials.\n\nThe OLPC foundation, a group out of MIT Media Lab and supported by several major corporations, has a stated mission to develop a $100 laptop for delivering educational software. The laptops were widely available as of 2008. They are sold at cost or given away based on donations.\n\nIn Africa, the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) has launched an \"e-school program\" to provide all 600,000 primary and high schools with computer equipment, learning materials and internet access within 10 years. An International Development Agency project called nabuur.com, started with the support of former American President Bill Clinton, uses the Internet to allow co-operation by individuals on issues of social development.\n\nIndia is developing technologies that will bypass land-based telephone and Internet infrastructure to deliver distance learning directly to its students. In 2004, the Indian Space Research Organisation launched EDUSAT, a communications satellite providing access to educational materials that can reach more of the country's population at a greatly reduced cost.\n\nAn AI-based tutoring system, Education Dominance, was put into an entry-level IT school in Pensacola by the U.S. Navy. This system relates to a human tutor in which the student's progress is monitored while providing individual assessments. According to the Navy, the students that worked with the digital tutoring system consistently performed better on the tests than did the students who did not use the digital tutor. The adaptive technology appears to affect students positively because it can assist individuals that have different learning skills than others and therefor better equipped to learn on their own. Technology programs that are already being used in education fields: Tablets, such as google chrome book, where students can access a range of google's educational software. DreamBox, Zearn, and ST Math, are math software programs that adapt to students as they learn.\n"}
{"id": "55708561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55708561", "title": "Gas Council Engineering Research Station", "text": "Gas Council Engineering Research Station\n\nThe Gas Council Engineering Research Station was a former engineering research institute on Tyneside, situated in a distinctively-shaped and listed building, now occupied by the Metropolitan Borough of North Tyneside. \n\nIt was designed by Ryder & Yates in 1965, who also designed the Television Centre, Newcastle upon Tyne. Ryder and Yates had formed in 1953 in Newcastle. It was built under the former Northumberland County Council. The Northern Gas Board had its main headquarters in Killingworth. It was first announced in November 1965. It was built in anticipation of North Sea gas. Killingworth was a north-east new town, known as Killingworth Township. It was planned to open in the summer of 1968. It was built on the site of Killingworth Colliery. The modernist architecture is developed from Le Corbusier and Berthold Lubetkin. \n\nIt was built from 1966-67 on a 10-acre site. An extension was added from 1975-76 to contain a restaurant. \n\nIt was Grade II listed on 27 January 1997 by English Heritage (Historic England since 2015).\n\nIt is situated directly between the B1505 to east and the East Coast Main Line (ECML) to the west, in the west of Killingworth. Nearby to the south was the former distinctively-designed headquarters, Norgas House, of the Northern Gas Board, also designed by Ryder & Yates, until North Tyneside agreed its demolition in 2012. \n\nBlock A housed the Engineering Research Station and Block B housed the School of Engineering.\n\nIt housed the main research function of British Gas, where the National Transmission System (NTS) was designed. The research centre's first function was to design the pipeline system around the UK. It researched metallurgy and pipelines, and avoiding any cracks in the UK's pipelines.\n\nBritish Gas left the site in 1995 and North Tyneside Council moved in. In 2008, North Tyneside moved most of its functions to Cobalt Park on the A19. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17686003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686003", "title": "Gentile Reform", "text": "Gentile Reform\n\nThe Gentile Reform of 1923 was a reform of the Italian educational system through a series of normative acts (royal legislative decrees of 31 December 1922, n. 1679, 16 July 1923, n. 1753, 6 May 1923, n. 1054, 30 September 1923, n. 2102 and 1 October 1923, n. 2185), by the neo-idealist philosopher Giovanni Gentile, minister of education in Benito Mussolini's first cabinet. It officially recognized 21 universities in Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16995888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16995888", "title": "GlobalScholar", "text": "GlobalScholar\n\nGlobalScholar was an operating unit of Scantron based in Bellevue, Washington that developed, manufactured, licensed, and supported a wide range of products and services related to education. This included products such as an enterprise resource planning (ERP) software solution, Pinnacle Suite, which supported all aspects of managing education at K-12 schools, including a gradebook, learning management system (LMS), and teacher development, analytics and online learning.\n\nGlobalScholar.com was the company's on-demand collaboration platform for tutors, parents, and students. Parents and students could find pre-screened tutors on a variety of subjects and school levels, and pay for one-time homework help or engage in ongoing tutoring sessions. The sessions occurred on GlobalScholar’s website, which provides an online whiteboard, audio/video IM, archiving, and billing.\n\nGlobalScholar also operated two other websites, launched in January 2008. SchoolFinder pulled together relevant information for elementary and high schools and let parents compare one school against another. CollegeFinder did the same for colleges, pulling in rankings from U.S. News & World Report and the Princeton Review.\n\nGlobalScholar, formally known as InfiLearn, was founded in December 2006 by Kal Raman, a former drugstore.com chief executive and Amazon.com senior vice president. \n\nGlobalScholar.com acquired Central Data Corporation's adaptable learning and educational scaffold assets along with the GlobalScholar name in 2007, using these as the baseline for the initial InfilLearn product. GlobalScholar.com made a strategic decision on January 31, 2008, to acquire Excelsior Software to expand the solutions it offered school districts and in order to offer Excelsior’s many loyal customers an even broader collection of educational services, leveraging the patented scaffolding structures developed by Central Data Corporation.\n\nIn October 2013, Scantron formally retired the GlobalScholar brand and stopped development and support on several products.\n\nThe company secured $27 million in round B funding on January 31, 2008 from existing investors Ignition Partners and Knowledge Universe Education. This was on top of a previously undisclosed $15.5 Million of Round A funding the company raised early 2007. The funding included additional investments from Knowledge Universe Education, a leading global education company; Ignition Partners, a premier venture capital firm; and an added investment from Peter Neupert, an existing board member; Excelsior Software, with long-standing relationships in the education community, was also acquired.\n"}
{"id": "57086797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57086797", "title": "Gyrus Systems (company)", "text": "Gyrus Systems (company)\n\nGyrus Systems is an American education technology company specializing in learning management system (LMS) services.\n\nFounded in 1987, the company is currently owned and operated by Viren and Smita Kapadia. Viren Kapadia serves as President and CEO. They purchased the company in 2009.\n\nOver 450 companies worldwide have utilized Gyrus Systems learning management technologies since its foundation. The company is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with an additional office in India along with being resellers in the United Kingdom, Germany, China, Vietnam and Mexico. Notable clients include US Steel, Caterpillar, Department of State, NOAA, and Lufthansa, as well as smaller government agencies and corporate enterprises.\n\nThe company has partnered with other companies and organizations including Skillsoft, Question Mark, and SoftChalk.\n\n"}
{"id": "22714340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22714340", "title": "Haut conseil de l'éducation", "text": "Haut conseil de l'éducation\n\nThe Haut Conseil de l'éducation is a French body set up in 2005, in a consultative capacity as regards essential knowledge, educational programmes and the evaluation of exam results.\n"}
{"id": "11327000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11327000", "title": "Hermann Haken", "text": "Hermann Haken\n\nHermann Haken (born July 12, 1927 in Leipzig, Germany) is physicist and professor emeritus in theoretical physics at the University of Stuttgart. He is known as the founder of synergetics. He is a cousin of the mathematician Wolfgang Haken, who proved the Four color theorem.\n\nAfter his studies in mathematics and physics in Halle (Saale) and Erlangen, receiving his Ph.D. in mathematics in 1951 at the University of Erlangen and being guest lecturer at universities in the UK and U.S., Haken was appointed as a full professor in theoretical physics at the University of Stuttgart. His research has been in non linear optics (his specialities are laser physics, particle physics, statistical physics and group theory).\n\nHaken developed his institute in a relatively short time to be an international centre for laser theory, starting in 1960 when Theodore Maiman built the first experimental laser. The interpretation of the laser principles as self-organization of non equilibrium systems paved the way at the end of the 1960s to the development of synergetics, of which Haken is recognized as the founder. \nHaken is the author of some 23 textbooks and monographs that cover an impressive number of topics from laser physics, atomic physics, quantum field theory, to synergetics. Although Haken's early books tend to be rather mathematical, at least one of his books \"Light\" is nicely written, for the more general reader, and loaded with physical insights. One of his successful popular books is \"Erfolgsgeheimnis der Natur\", or in English, \"The Science of Structure: Synergetics\".\n\nFor his wide range of contributions, he received many international prizes or medals, including the Max Born Prize and Medal by the British Institute of Physics and the German Physical Society in 1976, Albert A. Michelson Medal of the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, 1981, Great Order of the Federal Republic of Germany with star in 1986, Max Planck medal in 1990, Honda Prize 1992, Arthur-Burkhardt-Prize in 1993, Lorenz-Oken-Medal of the Society of German Natural Scientists and Medical Doctors in 1994,and Prize for the Outstanding Contributions to the Development of Medicine and Psychology, Danube University Krems, in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "42055305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42055305", "title": "High school diploma", "text": "High school diploma\n\nA high school diploma is a North American academic school leaving qualification awarded upon high school graduation. The high school diploma is typically studied for over the course of four years, from Grade 9 to Grade 12. The diploma is typically awarded by the school in accordance with the requirements of the local state or provincial government. Requirements for earning the diploma vary by jurisdiction, and there may be different requirements for different streams or levels of high school graduation. Typically they include a combination of selected coursework meeting specified criteria for a particular stream and acceptable passing grades earned on the state exit examination.\n\nIn British Columbia, the diploma is known as the British Columbia Certificate of Graduation. The province of BC has two distinct graduation programs: the BC Certificate of Graduation (Dogwood Diploma) and the BC Adult Graduation Diploma (Adult Dogwood). Students also have the opportunity to meet their educational goals (other than graduation) through the BC School Completion Certificate (Evergreen Certificate).\n\nThe current Dogwood requirements have been in place since July 1, 2004. Under current regulations, students must earn a minimum of 80 credits to graduate, which must include 48 credits for required courses, a minimum of 28 elective credits, and 4 credits for \"graduation transitions\", a standards-based assessment evaluated by schools under BC Ministry of Education guidelines. Required courses include, among other things, language arts, social studies, mathematics, and science courses in grades 10, 11, and 12. Part of the evaluation of students includes standardized provincial examinations in a number of the required courses in grades 10 and 12. As part of the 80 credits for the Dogwood, 16 credits must be at the Grade 12 level, and must include English 12 or Communications 12.\n\nIn Ontario, the high school diploma is known as the Ontario Secondary School Diploma. The diploma is awarded to all students who complete the Ontario educational curriculum. The requirements for the diploma include compulsory credits in English or French, Mathematics, Science, Canadian History, Canadian Geography, Arts, Health and Physical Education, and a second language; compulsory half credits in Career Studies and Civics; one credit each from three elective groups; 12 optional credits, 4 of which may be obtained through dual-credit classes; 40 hours of community service; and the Ontario Secondary School Literacy Test. Those who leave school after completing 14 credits but prior to obtaining the diploma can obtain the Ontario Secondary School Certificate.\n\nQuebec issued the D.E.S. (), formerly Quebec Certificate of Education (and sometimes were known Quebec HS Secondary Certificate and Québécois baccalaureat) before it changed into HS Diploma/ at the end of secondary V (grade 11), for graduation from secondary school (high school), a five-year school spanning secondary I (grade 7) to secondary V (grade 11).\n\nTo earn a high school diploma, Saskatchewan students are required to earn a total of 24 credits from grades 10 to 12. For a regular English program diploma, they must earn 5 credits in English Language Arts, 3 credits in Social Studies, 2 credits in mathematics, 2 credits in science, 1 credit in Physical Education/Health Education, 2 credits in Arts Education/Practical and Applied Arts, and 9 elective credits.\n\nA United States high school diploma usually refers to the satisfactory completion of grade schooling including kindergarten through the 12th grade and is then issued by the school district and the high school after a student's graduation.\n\nIn Alabama, all students are required to earn 24 credits. The required credits are: English (4 credits), Math (4 credits), Science (4 credits), History (4 credits), PE/JROTC (1 credit), Health (0.5 credits), Career Prep (1 credit), CTE/arts education/Foreign language (3 credits), and Electives (2.5 credits).\n\nCounty schools offer Honors, and AP classes.\n\nIn California, students are required to take, and successfully complete the following minimum requirements to earn a high school diploma:\n3 years of English,\n2 years of Math including Algebra I,\n3 years of History/Social Studies including one year of U.S. history and geography; one year of world history, culture, and geography; one semester of American government and civics, and one semester of economics,\n2 years of science including biological and physical sciences,\n1 year of either visual and performing arts, foreign language, or career technical education,\n2 years of Physical Education,\nand Beginning in 2005–06, all students must pass the California High School Exit Examination prior to graduation, which is normally first administered in the 10th grade. Most schools' individual graduation requirements far outweigh the state's minimum standards. The California exit exam was suspended until 2018.\n\nThis information is taken from the California Department of Education.\n\nIn Illinois, students are required to take English, mathematics, science, social science, world language, fine arts, physical education, and elective classes meeting selected criteria as part of the program of study for the High School Diploma. Electives may include advanced courses, career and technical education (CTE), Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (JROTC), dual-enrollment, or additional classes in the required subjects that meet school board requirements. Driver's Education is required for all students. An additional requirement is a passing grade on the Prairie State Achievement Examination which is typically taken in Grade 11.\n\nAccommodations are made for select students with unique needs. English Language Learner (ELL) students may substitute English as a Second Language for English to meet the graduation requirements. Students receiving special education services may complete modified requirements according to an Individualized Education Plan (IEP).\n\nIn New York State, the high school diploma awarded is known as the Regents Diploma, which is earned upon successful completion of the Regents Exams in the required subjects. Two levels are offered: the standard Regents Diploma and the Regents Diploma with Advanced Designation. Both diplomas require 22 credits, including 4 credits in English, 4 credits in Social Studies, 3 credits in Math, 3 credits in Science, 0.5 credits in Health, 1 credit in Art or Music, and 2 credits in Physical Education; the Regents Diploma requires 1 credit of Secondary Language and 3.5 credits in Sequence Courses or Electives, while the Regents Diploma with Advanced Designation requires 3 credits of Secondary Language and 1.5 credits in Sequence Courses or Electives.\n\nThe subjects for which passing grades on the Regents Exams are required for the Regents Diploma include Comprehensive English, any one Mathematics, Global History, US History, any one Science, and Language Other Than English (LOTE). The subjects for which passing grades on the Regents Exams are required for the Regents Diploma with Advanced Designation are Comprehensive English, all three Mathematics, Global History, US History, one physical Science, one life Science, and Language Other Than English (LOTE). A passing score is 65 in each subject; the \"With Honors\" designation is added if the average score in all required exams is 90 or greater. A \"Technical Endorsement\" is given to students enrolled in a Career and Technical Education (CTE) program who additionally complete an approved technical assessment, a work-based learning experience, and a work-skills employability profile. \nStudents are also able to receive a Mastery in Mathematics and Mastery in Science designation on their diploma alongside others.\n\nThe New York State Regents Diploma, with or without advanced designation, honors, or mastery, is the most heavily weighed and usually most influential high school diploma offered in the country. A Regents diploma is often referred to as the most difficult and challenging diploma to obtain. The highest level of a New York State Regents diploma is with Honors, Advanced Designation, Mastery of Science, Mastery of Mathematics, with a Technical Endorsement.\n\nIn Texas, there are three programs offered for graduation: the Minimum High School Program (MHSP), the Recommended High School Program (RHSP), and the Advanced (Distinguished) High School Program (AHSP/DHSP). The Recommended and Distinguished programs are the streams typically chosen by most students, and are expected of students who are college-bound. Also required for graduation is successful completion with passing grades on the Exit Level examination of the State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR), which is typically taken in Grade 11. Multiple re-sits for the exam are available, in case of failure on a previous attempt.\n\nStudents in the Recommended and Distinguished programs must take four years of English, mathematics, science, and social studies classes as part of their program of study. Students in the Distinguished program must also take a minimum amount of advanced-level coursework, which could include Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate classes or university classes taken as dual-enrollment. Students in the Minimum program have less stringent requirements to complete their diploma than students in the other diploma programs.\n\nBy Texas state law, completion of the Recommended or Distinguished programs or a program with an equivalent curriculum and level of rigor, along with suitable scores on the SAT or the ACT, is required for a student to be eligible to be considered for admission to a four-year public institution of higher education in Texas.\n\nThe General Education Development (GED) credential is offered as an alternative qualification for those who did not successfully earn a high school diploma. Examination involves taking and passing tests in five subjects: Reading, Writing, Mathematics, Science, and Social Studies. A Certificate of High School Equivalency is generally offered to those who successfully complete the GED. While the GED itself may not necessarily enable the same higher education and employment opportunities as the high school diploma, the GED can enhance employability prospects for former high school dropouts, and progression is available to tertiary study at select higher education institutions.\n\nIB World Schools may offer the IB Diploma in lieu of or alongside a traditional high school diploma. The IB Diploma is an academically rigorous program of study. The program of study for the IB Diploma includes subjects chosen from five subject groups: Studies in Language and Literature, Language Acquisition, Individuals and Societies, Sciences, Mathematics, and the Arts. Three subjects are taken at Higher Level, and three are taken at Standard Level. Also included is the Diploma Programme Core, which is composed of Extended Essay; Theory of Knowledge; and Creativity, Action, and Service (CAS) components. The IB Diploma is an internationally recognized academic school-leaving qualification that provides entry to, and in some cases, advanced standing in, university. International Baccalaureate (IB) exams are typically considered equivalent to Advanced Placement (AP) exams and are at an academic level above the high school diploma, and thus university credit may be awarded for successful completion of IB subjects by American and Canadian universities as well as Universities around the World.\n\nInternational schools following the British Curriculum of education may offer the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) qualification, which is considered to be at the same level, in lieu of or alongside a traditional high school diploma. The IGCSE is the international counterpart to the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) qualification, taken by secondary school students at Key Stage 4 in the United Kingdom. Edexcel and Cambridge International Examinations (CIE) are examination boards which offer the IGCSE qualification worldwide.\n\nStudents generally take five to ten subjects, according to their desired program of study and the offerings available at their school; an IGCSE with eight subjects at grades A*-C is considered equivalent to the full high school diploma. Unlike the high school diploma, which is typically studied for in years 9-12 and awarded in year 12, the IGCSE is typically awarded at year 11, after which the A Levels are studied for and awarded.\n\nFollowing successful completion of the GCSE or IGCSE, international schools following the British Curriculum may offer the Cambridge Advanced International Certificate of Education (AICE) Diploma, developed by the Cambridge International Examinations board. As part of the Cambridge AICE Diploma program, students take a combination of Cambridge International AS Level and A Level subjects, administered by Cambridge International Examinations with at least one subject taken in each of three subject areas: Mathematics and Science, Languages, and Arts and Humanities; subjects from a fourth subject group, Global Perspecties, may also be chosen. Six credits must be earned to achieve the Diploma; an AS Level counts as a full (single) credit, and an A Level counts as a double credit. The Cambridge AICE Diploma would typically be completed by the final year of high school. AS and A Levels are at a higher academic level than the high school diploma, and thus university credit may be awarded for A Levels completed as part of the Cambridge AICE Diploma by American and Canadian Universities.\n\nAs an alternative to the Cambridge AICE Diploma, international schools following the British Curriculum may offer the Edexcel International Diploma (ID), in lieu of or alongside the traditional high school diploma, following successful completion of the GCSE or IGCSE. The International Diploma requires successful completion of three Edexcel A Levels or three BTEC Level 3 Extended Diplomas, along with a Level 3 Extended Project (EPQ), a BTEC Level 3 WorkSkills Plus Certificate, and an Edexcel AS Level in General Studies. This qualification thus allows for a blended mix of academic studies and vocational training, to prepare students for higher education as well as the workplace. The Edexcel International Diploma would typically be completed by the final year of high school. AS and A Levels are at a higher academic level than the high school diploma, and thus university credit may be awarded for A Levels completed as part of the International Diploma by American and Canadian universities .\n\nInternational schools following the French Curriculum of education may offer the Baccalauréat (Le Bac) in lieu of or alongside a traditional high school diploma. The Baccalauréat is the traditional school-leaving qualification of French schools. The Baccalauréat is offered in several streams; subjects chosen for the Baccalauréat depend on the stream chosen by the student.\n\nAccredited French international schools in the United States may also offer the Baccalauréat Franco Américain (French American Baccalauréat), as an alternative to the traditional Baccalauréat, in lieu of or alongside a traditional high school diploma. The French American Baccalauréat is offered as a joint initiative of the College Board and the French Ministry of Education. The curriculum includes Advanced Placement (AP) subjects and French classes; in lieu of three French classes, students take three corresponding AP classes in the première (year 11) and terminale (year 12) years of high school. AP exams are taken in May of year 11 or year 12, and French Baccalauréat exams are taken according to the normal academic calendar. Students may elect to take the Baccalauréat Franco Américain in the Literature (L), Economics (ES), and Science (S) courses of study.\n\nIn England and Wales, the high school diploma is considered to be at the level of the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE), which is awarded at Year 11. For college and university admissions, the high school diploma may be accepted in lieu of the GCSE if an average grade of C is obtained in subjects with a GCSE counterpart.\n\nAs the more academically rigorous A Levels awarded at Year 13 are expected for university admission, the high school diploma alone is generally not considered to meet university requirements. Students who wish to study in the United Kingdom may additionally participate in the Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) programs, which are considered to be at the level of the A Level qualifications and earn points on the UCAS Tariff, or may opt to take A Level examinations in British international schools or as private candidates. College Entrance Examination Board (CEEB) tests, such as the SAT, SAT Subject Tests, or the ACT, may also be considered.\n\nThe Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) recommends that in addition to a high school diploma, grades of 3 or above in at least two, or ideally three, Advanced Placement exams may be considered as meeting general entry requirements for admission. The IB Diploma may also be accepted. For the College Entrance Examination Board tests, a minimum score of 600 or higher in all sections of the SAT or a minimum score of 26 or higher in all sections of the ACT along with a minimum score of 600 in relevant SAT Subject Tests may be considered as meeting general entry requirements for admission.\n\nWithin the United States and Canada, there is universal recognition of all officially awarded high school diplomas earned in any jurisdiction. Employers, colleges, and universities generally do not distinguish between high school diplomas based on the jurisdiction of awarding, and consider all high school diplomas of the same level to be equivalent. However, where differences in curriculum requirements or levels of academic rigor are made between diplomas issued in a particular jurisdiction, distinctions may be made. Specific requirements for the curriculum content and the level of academic rigor needed for acceptance may be made by those who request a high school diploma.\n\n"}
{"id": "51211833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51211833", "title": "History of Queen Mary University of London", "text": "History of Queen Mary University of London\n\nThe history of Queen Mary University of London lies in the mergers, over the years, of four older colleges: Queen Mary College, Westfield College, St Bartholomew's Hospital Medical College and the London Hospital Medical College. In 1989 Queen Mary merged with Westfield College to form \"Queen Mary & Westfield College\". Although teaching began at the London Hospital Medical College in 1785, it did not become part of Queen Mary until 1995. In that same year the two medical schools merged to form the School of Medicine and Dentistry at Queen Mary & Westfield College.\n\nIn 2000, the college adopted the working title of Queen Mary, University of London while retaining the legal name Queen Mary and Westfield College. In 2013 the legal name of the institution was changed to Queen Mary University of London.\n\nQueen Mary College was founded in the mid Victorian era when growing awareness of conditions in London's East End led to drives to provide facilities for local inhabitants, popularised in the 1882 novel \"All Sorts of Conditions of Men – An Impossible Story\" by Walter Besant, which told of how a rich and clever couple from Mayfair went to the East End to build a \"Palace of Delight, with concert halls, reading rooms, picture galleries, art and designing schools.\" Although not directly responsible for the conception of the People's Palace, the novel did much to popularise it.\n\nThe trustees of the Beaumont Trust, administering funds left by Barber Beaumont, purchased the site of the former Bancroft's School from the Drapers' Company. On 20 May 1885 the Drapers' Court of Assistants resolved to grant £20,000 \"for the provision of the technical schools of the People's Palace.\" The foundation stone was laid on 28 June 1886 and on 14 May 1887 Queen Victoria opened the palace's Queen's Hall as well as laying the foundation stone for the technical schools in the palace's east wing.\n\nThe technical schools were opened on 5 October 1888, with the entire palace completed by 1892. When opening them, the Master of the Drapers' Company declared their aims to be \"to improve the scientific and technical knowledge of apprentices and workmen engaged in industrial life\". However others saw the technical schools as one day becoming a technical university for the East End. The conflicting demands of pleasure and education were identified by the Assistant Charity Commissioner as early as 1891 and for the next forty years this was to dog the People's Palace. In 1892 the Drapers' Company provided £7,000 a year for ten years to guarantee the educational side income.\n\nThe classes reached a peak of 8000 tickets in 1892–1893 but fell to less than half for the following year, due to competition from the London School Board, despite the Palace's classes being more advanced. With the level of teaching growing, in 1895 John Leigh Smeathman Hatton, Director of Evening Classes (1892–1896; later Director of Studies 1896–1908 and Principal 1908–1933) proposed introducing a course of study leading to the Bachelor of Science degree of the University of London. By the start of the 20th century the first degrees were awarded and Hatton, along with several other Professors, were recognised as Teachers of the University of London. In 1906 an application for Parliamentary funds \"for the aid of Educational Institutions engaged in work of a University nature\", led to the College being told it was \"of the highest importance that there should be a School of the University in the faculties of Arts, Science and Engineering within easy reach of the very large population of the East End of London.\" The educational part of the People's Palace was admitted on an initial three-year trial basis as a School of the University of London on 15 May 1907 as East London College.\n\nTeaching of aeronautical engineering began in 1907 which led to the first UK aeronautical engineering department being established in 1909 which boasted a ground-breaking wind tunnel. Thus creating the oldest Aeronautical Programme in the World. A. P. Thurston, a former student at the College gaining a first class degree in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering in 1906, was encouraged and financially supported by P. Y. Alexander, a wealthy aeronautical enthusiast and acquaintance, and J. L. Hatton, the then Principal, to start regular courses of lectures in aeronautics. Thurston gradually brought in more and more skilled aeronautical engineers, and with the newly built laboratory, started giving lectures in aeronautics (\"Flying machines\", \"Balloons, airships and kites\", \"The mechanical principles of flight\") and started extensive research on fundamental matters such as the characteristics of wing sections and propellers, structural and material characteristics, and the forces on struts, leading to use in military aircraft for the First World War.\n\nIn 1910 the College's status in the University of London was extended for a further five years, with unlimited membership achieved in May 1915. During this period the organisation of the governors of the People's Palace was rearranged, creating the separate People's Palace Committee and East London College Committee, both under the Palace Governors, as a sign of the growing separation of the two concepts within a single complex.\n\nDuring the First World War the College admitted students from the London Hospital Medical College who were preparing for the preliminary medical examination, the first step in a long process that would eventually bring the two institutions together. After the war, the College grew, albeit constrained by the rest of the People's Palace to the west and a burial ground immediately to the east. In 1920 it obtained both the Palace's Rotunda (now the Octagon) and rooms under the winter gardens at the west of the palace, which became chemical laboratories. The College's status was also unique, being the only School of the University of London that was subject to both the Charity Commissioners and the Board of Education. In April 1929 the College Council decided it would take the steps towards applying to the Privy Council for a Royal Charter, but on the advice of the Drapers' Company first devised a scheme for development and expansion, which recommended amongst other things to reamalgamate the People's Palace and the College, with guaranteed provision of the Queen's Hall for recreational purposes, offering at least freedom of governance if not in space.\n\nIn the early hours of 25 February 1931 a fire destroyed the Queen's Hall, though both the College and the winter gardens escaped. In the coming days discussions on reconstruction led to the proposal that the entire site be transferred to the College which would then apply for a Charter alone. The Drapers' Company obtained St Helen's Terrace, a row of six houses neighbouring the site, and in July 1931 it was agreed to give these over to the People's Palace for a new site adjacent to the old, which would now become entirely the domain of the College. Separation was now achieved. The Charter was now pursued, but the Academic Board asked for a name change, feeling that \"east London\" carried unfortunate associations that would hinder the College and its graduates. With the initial proposed name, \"Queen's College\", having already been taken by another institution and \"Victoria College\" felt to be unoriginal, \"Queen Mary College\" was settled on. The Charter of Incorporation was presented on 12 December 1934 by Queen Mary herself.\n\nDuring the Second World War the College was evacuated to Cambridge, where it shared with King's College. Meanwhile, the Mile End site was requisitioned for war work and was for a time used as the Municipal Offices of Stepney Borough Council. After the war the College returned to London, facing many of the same problems but with prospects for westward expansion.\n\nThe East End had suffered considerable bomb damage (although the College itself had incurred little) and consequently several areas of land near to the College site now became vacant. The former church of St Benets' to the immediate east of the College was now defunct and was demolished in 1950, with the space used to build a new block for physics, but most of the acquisitions in the immediate post war years were to the west of the college. Even the new People's Palace was no longer able to meet its needs and it was acquired by the College along with several pieces of land that together formed a significant continuous stretch along the Mile End Road. New buildings for engineering, biology and chemistry were built on the new sites, whilst the arts took over the space vacated in the original building, now renamed the Queens' Building (to reflect the support and patronage of both Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother).\n\nLimited accommodation resulted in the acquisition of further land in South Woodford (now directly connected to Mile End tube station by means of the Central line's eastward extension), upon which tower blocks were established. Consequently, student numbers continued to expand. The College also obtained the Co-operative Wholesale Society's clothing factory on the Mile End Road which was converted into a building for the Faculty of Laws (and some other teaching), as well as the former headquarters of Spratt's Patent Ltd (operators of the \"largest dog biscuit factory in the world\" – see Spratt's Complex) at 41–47 Bow Road, which was converted into a building for the Faculty of Economics founded by Maurice Peston, Baron Peston. Both faculties were physically separated from what was now a campus to the west.\n\nFrom the mid-1960s until the mid-1980s the College was in a period of uncertainty and flux. Much planning was dominated by the \"BLQ scheme\" which proposed to link Queen Mary College with the London Hospital Medical College and St Bartholomew's Hospital Medical College with a joint facility in Mile End, but the land was not yet available. Over the period land that came onto the market was purchased with the intention to consolidate as soon as possible. The Queen Mary College Act 1973 was passed \"to authorise the disposal of the Nuevo burial ground in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets and to authorise the use for other purposes thereof...\" and gave the authority to disinter and reinter most of the graves to Dytchleys. A further link with both The London and St. Bartholomew's was made in 1974 when an anonymous donor provided for the establishment of a further hall of residence in Woodford, to be divided equally between Queen Mary College students and the two medical colleges.\n\nFrom 1964 until 1982 QMC maintained a nuclear reactor, the first to be built for a UK university. A reactor was commissioned on the Mile End site beneath Mile End Road and operated from around 1964 to 1966 at around 1 kW. This reactor was the brainchild of the first Professor of Nuclear Engineering, Walter Murgatroyd, and was managed by John Shaw. The reactor was purchased from de Havilland. In 1966 it was decommissioned and a new 100 kW reactor was built at the new QMC Nucleonics Laboratory in Marshgate Lane, Stratford, London, upgraded in 1968, and decommissioned in 1982, with the site licence surrendered in November 1983. The Marshgate Lane site became part of the Olympic Park from 2006; in response to safety concerns about the former purpose of the site, a Greenpeace spokesman was quoted as saying \"In our view there's nothing to worry about.\"\n\nAt the start of the 1980s changing demographics and finances caused much concern through the university sector and led to a reorganisation of the University of London. At Queen Mary some subjects, such as Russian and Classics were discontinued, whilst the College became one of five in the University with a concentration of laboratory sciences, including the transfer of science departments from Westfield College, Chelsea College, Queen Elizabeth College and Bedford College.\n\nFrom the mid-1980s onwards the College began expanding across the newly acquired land to the east, taking the campus to the Regent's Canal. A part of the burial ground remains to this day but the rest of the area has been absorbed by the College's expansion. The long planned Pre Clinical Medicine building for the BLQ Scheme finally materialised in the late 1980s, further strengthening the ties between the three colleges.\n\nIn 1989 Queen Mary College (informally known as QMC) merged with Westfield College to form Queen Mary & Westfield College (often abbreviated to QMW). Over subsequent years, activities were concentrated on the Queen Mary site, with the Westfield site eventually sold.\n\nIn 1990, the London Hospital was renamed the Royal London Hospital, after marking its 250th year, and a reorganisation of medical education within the University of London resulted in most of the freestanding medical schools being merged with existing large colleges to form multi-faculty institutions. In 1995 the London Hospital Medical College and St Bartholomew's Hospital Medical College merged into Queen Mary & Westfield College to form the entity now named Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry.\n\nIn 2000 the college changed its name for general public use to Queen Mary, University of London; in 2013, the college legally changed its name to Queen Mary University of London. The VISTA telescope is a 4-metre class wide-field telescope at the Paranal Observatory in Chile that was conceived and developed by Queen Mary University, costing approximately £36m.\n\nThe Westfield Student Village opened in 2004 on the Mile End Campus, bringing over 2,000 rooms to students and a huge array of facilities, restaurants, and cafes.\n\nThe Blizard Building, home to the Medical School's Institute of Cell and Molecular Science opened at the Whitechapel campus in 2005. The award-winning building was designed by Will Alsop, and is named after William Blizard, an English surgeon and founder of the London Hospital Medical College in 1785.\n\nThe year 2006 saw the refurbishment of The Octagon, the original library of the People's Palace dating back to 1888.\n\nIn 2007 parts of the School of Law – postgraduate facilities and the Centre for Commercial Law Studies – moved to premises in Lincoln's Inn Fields in central London. The Women at Queen Mary Exhibition was staged in the Octagon, marking 125 years of Westfield College and 120 years of Queen Mary College.\n\nIn September 2009, the world's first science education centre located within a working research laboratory opened at the Blizard Institute of Cell and Molecular Science, hoping to inspire children with school tours and interactive games and puzzles.\n\nQueen Mary became one of the few university-level institutions to implement a requirement of the A* grade at A-Level after its introduction in 2010 on some of their most popular courses, such as Engineering, Law, and Medicine.\n\nFollowing on from the 2010 UK student protests, Queen Mary set fees of £9,000 per year for September 2012 entry, while also offering bursaries and scholarships.\n\nOn 12 March 2012 it was announced that Queen Mary would be joining the Russell Group in August 2012. Later in March, Queen Mary and the University of Warwick announced the creation of a strategic partnership, including research collaboration, joint teaching of English, history and computer science undergraduates, and the creation of eight joint post-doctoral research fellowships.\n\nIn January 2013, Queen Mary established the world's first professorial chair in animal replacement science.\n\nFrom 2014, Queen Mary began awarding its own degrees, rather than those of the University of London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2085832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2085832", "title": "Homeroom", "text": "Homeroom\n\nHomeroom or advisory is the classroom session in which a teacher records attendance and makes announcements. It can also be called Registration or Planning Period. The concept is used in schools around the world.\n\nIn Jordan, the home room concept (مربي الصف) is widely used in schools. The homeroom teacher is responsible for almost everything concerning their class. At the start of the school year, it's the homeroom teacher's responsibility to make sure that everyone gets their textbooks and materials, which are supplied by the government.\n\nIn Afghanistan, the home room concept (نگران) is widely used in schools. The home room teacher is responsible for almost everything concerning their class. At the start of the school year, it's the homeroom teacher's responsibility to make sure that everyone gets their textbooks and materials, which are supplied by the government. The teacher is also responsible for recording attendance.\n\nIn Bangladesh a homeroom teacher, also referred to as \"class teacher\", has the duty of taking attendance records of students in a class and making any minor announcements not covered during assembly.\n\nIn China, students often do not move between classes for different lessons and have a 10-minute period in which additional home room tasks can be done. Often these tasks include the collection or distribution of homework or the cleaning of the classroom. In competitive schools, the composition of home room classes is sometime based on ability in one or more core subjects. For example, students with a talent for science and math might be grouped together in one home room, while students with more practical or artistic skills would be put together in another. In such cases, the class' home room teacher often specializes in one of the core areas used to select his or her class, in addition to provide both academic and life advises to students. Usually there will also be a student elected by the others as a class monitor to assist their teachers with homeroom tasks and act as intermediate between the teachers and students.\nIn India a homeroom teacher is referred to as a class teacher. A class teacher teaches his or her subject in the homeroom and takes the attendance records of students in a class and makes small announcements regarding trips etc.\n\nHomeroom hour in Korea takes a significant role in a child's education. Homeroom teachers play many roles; acting as counselors, administrators, and disciplinarians. Homeroom classes in high school are specially important as the students make their transition to college. Homeroom hour starts before 1st period and also after the last period, lasting between 20–30 minutes each time. Teachers use this time to make announcements, discipline students, and take care of other administrative duties. More importantly, teachers take this time to establish order in class. If a teacher is easygoing, the class is likely to be disruptive. Likewise, if the teacher is strict, the class is likely to be orderly. School administrators and staff see the homeroom classes as a reflection of the teachers. Moreover, if the class has bad test scores, it is subsequently blamed on the teacher. The homeroom teacher is responsible for pushing the students to do their best. Students often see their homeroom teachers as their role models and often visit them in the staff room. It is also common for students to stop by to tease the teacher or ask frivolous questions. In the 12th grade, homeroom teachers especially press on the students to do well on their college entrance exam. The 12th grade homeroom teacher is considered to be the most important teacher in the student's education. Subsequently, they (12th grade teachers) have a lot of work and are reluctant to take on teaching this grade. After graduating, students often come back and visit their homeroom teachers. It is customary to come with gifts or food.\n\nHome room in Japanese schools forms a greater part of students' lives, with home room teachers acting as a substitute parent in many ways. Students usually have the same home room teacher and fellow students during their entire life at a given school. Students are expected to take on tasks for their home room, including cleaning, day duty (note-taking and classroom organisation), and the organisation of competitive events between home room classes. Students also often eat lunch in their home room. Since teachers must usually travel to the students' home room, rather than students going to a classroom dedicated to a particular subject, the depth of lessons often suffers. Teachers must carry all materials needed for multiple classes, therefore the lessons usually end up taking on a lecture style with students simply taking notes in preparation for testing.\n\nHomeroom periods varies between schools in Singapore. Usually homeroom periods are used for class contact time and also a time to discuss about what is going on around the school itself or sometimes students go to the hall for briefing before any important events like a marathon or an exam. Most secondary schools call homeroom, contact time period or Form Teacher (FT) period as the term homeroom is rarely used.\n\nHome room is a concept that does not exist in Argentinian schools, as a single classroom is often used for all assignments (except for lab work or outdoors exercise). Students usually stay in groups of 20 to 40 for at least 2 years without being reshuffled and often maintain the same grouping throughout both primary and secondary education, with only the group's room and assigned member of staff changing.\nTypically, Argentine schools will have a 15-30 minute form period in the morning, a one-hour period for lunch, and a similar period after lunch, albeit not all schools are required to have classes in both the morning and the afternoon. Schools (particularly private ones) will often use classes in the afternoon for secondary languages (English, French, etc.) and sports activities.\nStudents are usually not given much choice in the subjects they study and they all are subject to most academic subjects. The main choice a student has to make in entering secondary school is in deciding a high school that leans towards general knowledge (\"bachiller\", which encompasses arts and a general overview of science), economics (\"comercial\", whose orientation is towards math, primarily oriented towards accounting and business), engineering (\"técnico\" whose orientation is towards engineering and sciences) or pedagogical (\"normal\", whose orientation is forming elementary school teachers). Each school is given a lot of latitude in terms of extracurricular activities (teaching of secondary languages, sports, etc.).\nArgentinian's education is often in flux, as governments every 5 years or so change the curriculum and number of required classes.\n\nHome room in Australia is similar to the US concept, however it varies from school to school. Some schools do not have home room at all, and attendance and announcements are made during the first period of the school day in a \"student bulletin\", while other schools run a home room system which is identical to that run in American schools.\n\nAlternative names for home room in Australia are \"admin\" or \"administration,\" \"form-class,\" \"form-period,\" \"roll-call\" or \"DEAR\" (drop everything and read).\nMost schools, as well as having a form-class, also have an \"assembly\" which is attended by the entire population of the school. This often entails announcements, advertising for various aspects of school life and listening or singing along with the national anthem.\n\nIn many private schools, usually Catholic schools, home room is referred to as \"PCG\" (pastoral care group) where the teacher is called a \"PCA\" (pastoral care advisor). As in Romania, a 'PCA' also performs the role of a counsellor.\n\nHome room in Canadian schools follows the US model as well, but the time it occurs differs depending on the school district (and, in many cases, varies by the individual school). Some schools do not have homerooms but the day is broken into 5 periods.\n\nHome room (or \"form-class\") in New Zealand is similar to the US concept, however it varies from school to school. Mostly used in high schools because classes are taught by different subject teachers. where classmates in the same form class often split up for different subjects. Form classes in the morning combines form period and roll call in the morning, and DEAR (called \"SSR\", or silent sustained reading) occurs after lunch. Form classes can precede the first period, and after the school assembly.\n\nHome room in Panamanian schools is similar to the US model. However, it is not an optional period as all students are required to attend home room sessions every Monday morning (in some rare cases, every day). It is called 'Consejería' (Counseling) and takes place every Monday morning as the first period. The teacher fulfills the role of a counselor (consejero) as s/he is in charge of registering attendance, collecting homework and other assignments, and make announcements. Students are expected to take on tasks for their home room including cleaning, morning prayer, classroom organization, homework and assignment handling. Home room may also be used for reading and writing after main activities have been fulfilled.\n\nIn the United States, homeroom is considered a planning period or registration. It is scheduled often at the first period of the day or it may follow the lunch break. Sometimes it can be at the end of the day after all lessons have finished. In schools where the first period of the day is optional, home room may be deferred to the second period. During homeroom, teachers take attendance registers, may collect lunch orders, and carry out other administrative activities. Announcements may be made, correspondence distributed, and the Pledge of Allegiance said. It may be used for a period of reading, or finishing homework. In some schools, students are permitted to socialize, do group activities, watch television news or read. The home room teacher is often believed to serve a pastoral role for their students, as well as an educational one. Homerooms are sometimes also considered a free period.\n\nIn Austrian education (from lower secondary schools on), each class mostly stays in the same classroom and teachers move between the classes. Each class has a homeroom teacher (named \"Klassenvorstand\" in Austrian German, \"form teacher\" in British English). There may be special hours reserved for announcements etc., but Homeroom teachers perform such activities either during regular lesson periods, or a so called „Klassenvorstandsstunde“ which could roughly be translated as „form teacher period“, which are mandatory for the students. Additionally the attendance is usually checked at the begin of every period.\n\nThe equivalent in France would be the \"professeur(e) principal(e)\", who teaches the class in a specific subject (as do other teachers) but accepts additional duties such as distributing administrative documents, giving advice on courses to follow, acting as intermediary in cases of conflict, collating other teachers' impressions of the class and of individual students in preparation for the quarterly report, and various other tasks. For this (s)he receives a small salary bonus.\n\nFor Germany basically same is true as for Austria (the teacher is called \"Klassenlehrer\"). Teachers normally do not receive a salary bonus but are expected to take classes in turn.\n\nHomeroom is practiced in all educational institutions in Romania under the name of \"Dirigenţie\", which takes its name from the homeroom teacher, called \"Diriginte\". He or she also fulfills the role of a counselor.\n\nHomeroom period in Russian schools is called \"klassny chas\" (class hour). Students of the same grade (\"the parallel\") are divided into \"classes\" - groups of on average 20-30 people; this varies by school and grade. Classes are assigned letters to distinguish between them, for example, 6th grade students may be divided into 5 classes - A, B, C, D, E, and each class gets a homeroom teacher (klassny rukovoditel). This homeroom teacher schedules the homeroom period approximately once a month and uses it to make announcements and decide various matters by student voting.\n\nIn Spain happens basically the same as in France, there's one main teacher called \"tutor\". Some schools do have an hour a week of homeroom, being called \"tutoría\", which is usually placed in High School education.\n\nAlthough the term homeroom is not used in the UK, students are usually assigned to a tutor group or form, with a daily registration period which generally serves the same purpose as a homeroom. The groupings and activities within a tutor group vary between schools and age groups; generally speaking, primary school students remain in their form groups for the majority of the time and there is no clear 'form time'. In secondary school, registration periods (or extensions thereof, such as weekly tutorials) may be the only period a form has with their form tutor - their first point of pastoral contact within a school - and the time is often used for a variety of purposes from administration (taking the register, making announcements, university and career applications) to more general studies such as personal, social and health education.\n\nIn Scotland, the use of SEEMIS software to monitor attendance has been trialed, which may lead to more integrated period-by-period registration of pupils.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the students are put in a group which more or less stays the same during their high school career. Those groups are sorted in levels, depending on a test children take at the end of primary school and their teachers' advice. Those levels determine how long you stay in high school and what kind of school you can attend after high school. Usually, the only reason to switch groups is when you go up a level or drop a level at the end of a year, based on your grades and performance. \nSo students always take all classes with the exact same group, have lunch breaks at the same time etcetera.\n\nEach group is assigned a mentor, which is a teacher who teaches a certain subject to multiple groups of all levels. In the mean time, those mentors are responsible for their students well-being, grades and performances, the group dynamics and more. They also are there to advice students regarding choices they have to make like what school to go to next or what career to pick, help them with personal issues and most of them plan a few fun activities or trips during the schoolyear. \nAll of this has to happen during the mentor's own class. There is no homeroom. \nSome schools however schedule a mentor class once a week or once a month, and most mentor's make room to talk to each student once or twice in private before or after school. \n"}
{"id": "33904229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33904229", "title": "Journal of Hispanic Higher Education", "text": "Journal of Hispanic Higher Education\n\nThe Journal of Hispanic Higher Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers four times a year in the fields of education and ethnic interests. The journal's editor is Esther Elena López-Mulnix, PhD. It has been in publication since 2002 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\n\"The Journal of Hispanic Higher Education\" is devoted to the advancement of knowledge and understanding of issues at Hispanic-serving institutions. The journal is interdisciplinary and publishes both quantitative and qualitative articles that specifically relate to issues of interest at Hispanic-serving institutions of higher learning worldwide.\n\n\"The Journal of Hispanic Higher Education\" is abstracted and indexed in the following databases:\n"}
{"id": "25222200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25222200", "title": "Khan Academy", "text": "Khan Academy\n\nKhan Academy is a non-profit educational organization created in 2008 by Salman Khan with the goal of creating a set of online tools that help educate students. The organization produces short lessons in the form of YouTube videos. Its website also includes supplementary practice exercises and materials for educators. All resources are available to users of the website. The website and its content are provided mainly in English, but is also available in other languages including Spanish, Portuguese, Hebrew, Italian, Russian, Chinese, Turkish, French, Bengali, Hindi, and German.\n\nThe organization started in 2008 when Salman Khan tutored one of his cousins in mathematics on the Internet using a service called Yahoo! Doodle Images. After a while, Khan's other cousins began to use his tutoring service. Due to the demand, Khan decided to make his videos watchable on the Internet, so he published his content on YouTube. Later, he used a drawing application called SmoothDraw, and now uses a Wacom tablet to draw using ArtRage. Tutorials are recorded on the computer.\n\nThe positive responses prompted Khan to quit his job in 2009, and focus on the tutorials (then released under the name \"Khan Academy\") full-time. Khan Lab School, a school founded by Sal Khan and associated with Khan Academy, opened on September 15, 2014 in Mountain View, California. In June 2017, Khan Academy launched Financial Literacy Video Series for college graduates, job seekers and young professionals.\n\nKhan Academy is a '501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, mostly funded by donations coming from philanthropic organizations. In 2010, Google donated $2 million for creating new courses and translating content into other languages, as part of their Project 10 program. In 2013, Carlos Slim from the Carlos Slim Foundation in Mexico, made a donation for creating Spanish versions of videos. In 2015, AT&T contributed $2.25 million to Khan Academy for mobile versions of the content accessible through apps. According to Khan Academy's filings with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Sal Khan's annual salary in 2015 was $800,000. In 2013, former President and COO Shantanu Sinha also received over $375,000 in compensation.\n\nKhan Academy's website aims to provide a personalized learning experience, mainly built on the videos which are hosted on YouTube. The website is meant to be used as a supplement to its videos, because it includes other features such as progress tracking, practice exercises, and teaching tools. The material can also be accessed through mobile applications.\n\nThe videos display a recording of drawings on an electronic blackboard, which are similar to the style of a teacher giving a lecture. The narrator describes each drawing and how they relate to the material being taught. Non-profit groups have distributed offline versions of the videos to rural areas in Asia, Latin America, and Africa. Videos range from all subjects covered in school and for all grades from kindergarten up to high school. The Khan Academy website also hosts content from educational YouTube channels and organizations such as Crash Course and the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nAfter you watch the videos you can ask questions, and others will assist you.\n\nIt also provides online courses for preparing for standardized tests, including the SAT and MCAT and released LSAT preparation lessons in 2018. \n\nIn July 2017, Khan Academy became the official practice partner for the College Board's Advanced Placement.\n\nKhan Academy videos have been translated into several languages, with close to 20,000 subtitle translations available. These translations are mainly volunteer-driven with help from international partnerships. The Khan Academy platform is fully available in English (en), Spanish (es), Portuguese (pt), Turkish (tr), French (fr) and Bangla (bn), and partially available in 26 other languages.\n\nSince 2015, Khan Academy has been the official SAT practicing website. And reports says that studying for the SAT for 20 hours on Khan Academy associated with 115-point average score increase. Many exercises books select questions from the Khan Academy site to be published.\n\nKhan Academy and Pixar made the Pixar in a Box where everyone can learn to animate bouncing balls, build a swarm of robots, and make virtual fireworks explode.\n\nKhan Academy introduced a new way of learning for kids in July, 2018. It inspires a lifetime of learning and discovery with free, fun educational program for children ages two to six.\n\nKhan Academy has been criticized because its creator Salman Khan lacks a formal background or qualifications in pedagogy, or teaching. Statements made in several videos have been questioned for their technical accuracy, especially in the area of history. In response to these criticisms, the organization has corrected errors in its videos, expanded its faculty and formed a network of over 200 content experts.\n\nIn an interview from January 2016, Khan defended the value of Khan Academy online lectures while acknowledging their limitations: \"I think they're valuable, but I'd never say they somehow constitute a complete education.\" Khan Academy positions itself as a supplement to in-class learning, with the ability to improve the effectiveness of teachers by freeing them from traditional lectures and giving them more time to tend to individual students' needs.\n\nKhan Academy has gained recognition both nationally and internationally:\n"}
{"id": "51335252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51335252", "title": "Knight-Hennessy Scholars", "text": "Knight-Hennessy Scholars\n\nKnight-Hennessy Scholars is an international graduate-level scholarship program for study at Stanford University. Established in 2016, the program prepares students to take leadership roles in finding creative solutions to complex global issues. Scholars receive full funding to pursue any graduate degree at Stanford and have additional opportunities for leadership training, mentorship, and experiential learning across multiple disciplines.\n\nOn February 22, 2016, Stanford University announced that Nike co-founder and Stanford Graduate School of Business alumnus Phil Knight had pledged $400 million to Stanford to establish the Knight-Hennessy Scholars program. It was the largest ever one-time donation to Stanford. In total, the program raised a $750 million endowment, making it the largest fully endowed scholarship program in the world. The program is named for Phil Knight and John L. Hennessy, Stanford's tenth president, who stepped down in the summer of 2016 after 16 years in the role, and was named chairman of Alphabet Inc. in 2018. Hennessy, who conceived of the Knight-Hennessy Scholars program as \"an interdisciplinary intellectual home that stresses collaboration,\" serves as the program's inaugural director. Jeff Wachtel serves as executive director, with Derrick Bolton as dean of admission.\n\nThe Knight-Hennessy Scholars program is inspired by programs such as the Rhodes Scholarship, with a focus on attracting students with a wide range of backgrounds from around the world. In addition to their graduate studies, scholars participate in leadership development programs and immersive study trips, and have opportunities for mentorship with thought leaders in business, government and nonprofit fields.\n\nStarting in 2018, the program will annually offer financial support comprising full tuition and fees, room and board, related academic expenses, and a stipend for living expenses. Successful applicants to the Knight-Hennessy Scholars program will demonstrate leadership, independent thought, and civic commitment.\n\nPotential applicants apply to the Knight-Hennessy Scholars program and also apply separately to a graduate degree program at one of Stanford's seven schools. The inaugural class of 51 scholars from 21 countries, pursuing degrees in 31 academic departments at all seven of Stanford's schools, was announced on February 15, 2018. Chosen from 3,601 applicants, the inaugural cohort is 57% female, majority nonwhite, and 23% first-generation US citizens. They earned undergraduate degrees at 38 different schools, and 63% hold non-US passports, from countries including Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Colombia, Egypt, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Myanmar, New Zealand, Nigeria, Romania, South Korea, Syria, Tajikistan, and the United Kingdom. The inaugural cohort will arrive at Stanford in the fall of 2018, with up to 100 scholarships awarded annually in subsequent years. In 2019, a class of 75 scholars is anticipated. Students will receive funding for up to three years toward a master's degree. Scholars pursuing doctorates or medical degrees can receive additional funding beyond the three years from their departments.\n\nScholars will be housed among Stanford's graduate students, approximately 80% of whom live on campus. Stanford is constructing Denning House on the shore of Lake Lagunita; the on-campus building will serve as the center for the Knight-Hennessy Scholars community. Scholars will gather at Denning House for presentations, workshops and social events. New York architectural firm Ennead designed the two-story building, which will have classrooms, a dining area, and meeting and lecture rooms, as well as office space for a fellow-in-residence and for the program's administrative staff. The building is a gift from Steven A. Denning, chair of the school's Board of Trustees, and his wife, Roberta Bowman Denning, chair of the Arts Advisory Board and the Humanities & Science Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "48059741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48059741", "title": "List of archives in Portugal", "text": "List of archives in Portugal\n\nThis is a list of archives in Portugal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are many other archives in Portugal, such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355747", "title": "Little Blue Book", "text": "Little Blue Book\n\nLittle Blue Books are a series of small staple-bound books published from 1919 through 1978 by the Haldeman-Julius Publishing Company of Girard, Kansas. They were extremely popular, and achieved a total of 300-500 million booklets sold over the series' lifetime. A Big Blue Book range was also published.\n\nEmanuel Haldeman-Julius, an atheist-Jew, socialist, and newspaper publisher, and his wife, Marcet, set out to publish small low price paperback pocketbooks that were intended to sweep the ranks of the working class as well as the \"educated\" class. Their goal was to get works of literature, a wide range of ideas, common sense knowledge and various points of view out to as large an audience as possible. These books, at approximately 3½ by 5 inches (8½ by 12¾ cm) easily fit into a working man's back pocket or shirt pocket. The inspiration for the series were cheap 10-cent paperback editions of various expired copyright classic works that Haldeman-Julius had purchased as a 15-year-old (the \"Ballad of Reading Gaol\" being especially enthralling). He wrote:\nIt was winter, and I was cold, but I sat down on a bench and read that booklet straight through, without a halt, and never did I so much as notice that my hands were blue, that my wet nose was numb, and that my ears felt as hard as glass. Never until then, or since, did any piece of printed matter move me more deeply...I'd been lifted out of this world - and by a 10¢ booklet. I thought, at the moment, how wonderful it would be if thousands of such booklets could be made available.\n\nIn 1919 they purchased a publishing house in Girard, Kansas from their employer \"Appeal to Reason\", a socialist weekly which had seen better days and that Haldeman-Julius edited. Though the \"Appeal to Reason\" was not the influential newspaper it had been, its printing presses (and more importantly the 175,000 names on its subscriber lists) would prove to be crucial. Haldeman-Julius, before anything had even been printed, sent an appeal to the \"Appeal to Reason\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s subscribers to send him a prepayment of $5; at 10 cents a pamphlet, he would then send them at staggered intervals 50 pamphlets which he would be able to print with the advanced monies. Things went very well:\nFive thousand readers took me up, which meant I had $25,000 to work with. I hurried through the 50 titles (and they were good ones, too, for I haven't believed in trash at any time in my life) and got many letters expressing satisfaction with the venture. Encouraged, I announced a second batch of 50 titles, and called for $5 subscriptions...Meanwhile, the booklets were selling well to readers who hadn't subscribed for batches of 50.\nIn 1919 they began printing these works at a rate of 24,000 a day in a series called Appeal's Pocket Series on cheap pulp paper, stapled and bound with a red stiff paper cover for 25 cents. The name changed over the first few years (as did the color of the binding), at times known as the People's Pocket Series, the Appeal Pocket Series, the Ten Cent Pocket Series, the Five Cent Pocket Series, and finally the one that took, Little Blue Books in 1923. The price remained at 5-cents a copy for many years.\n\nIn just nine years the idea caught on all around the globe as the Little Blue Books were finding their ways into the pockets of laborers, scholars, and the average citizen. The St. Louis Dispatch called Haldeman-Julius \"the Henry Ford of literature\". Among the better known names of the day to support the Little Blue Books were Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, W. E. B. Du Bois, Admiral Richard Byrd, who took along a set to the South Pole, and Franklin P. Adams of Information, Please!\n\nMost were sold by mail order and promoted through sensationalistic advertisements (e.g. “At last! Books are cheaper than hamburgers!”) in newspapers and magazines such as \"Life\", \"Popular Science\", and \"Ladies’ Home Journal\". To save ad space, only the book titles were listed, organized by topic headings such as “Philosophy,” “How-To,” or “Sex.” Many classics were cut down to fit the publishing requirements, which Haldeman-Julius justified as \"boring text\", pioneering the concept later used by \"Reader's Digest\". A pioneer in guerrilla marketing, Haldeman-Julius sold his books not only in bookstores but everywhere he could reach the consumer, including drugstores, toy stores, even his own line of vending machines. Mail-order customers checked-off the titles they wanted and mailed in the order form, with $1 (20 books) being the minimum order. Many bookstores kept a book rack stocked with many Little Blue Book titles. Their small size and low price made them especially popular with travelers and transient working people.\n\nIf a book sold less than 10,000 copies in one year, Haldeman-Julius would remove it from his line, but usually only after trying a new title, often creating a hit. For instance, \"The Tallow Ball\" by Guy de Maupassant sold 15,000 copies one year, but 54,700 the next year after the title was changed to \"A French Prostitute's Sacrifice\".\nMany famous people grew up on Little Blue Books. Louis L'Amour cites them as a major source of his own early reading in his autobiography \"Education of a Wandering Man\". Other writers who recall reading the series in their youth include Saul Bellow, Harlan Ellison, Jack Conroy, Ralph Ellison, William S. Burroughs and Studs Terkel.\n\nThe works covered were frequently classics of Western literature. Goethe and Shakespeare were well represented, as were the works of the Ancient Greeks, and more modern writers like Voltaire, Émile Zola, H. G. Wells. Some of the topics the Little Blue Books covered were on the cutting edge of societal norms. Alongside books on making candy (#518 - \"How to Make All Kinds of Candy\" by Helene Paquin) and classic literature (#246 - Hamlet by William Shakespeare) were ones exploring homosexuality (#692 - \"Homo-Sexual Life\" by William J Fielding) and agnostic viewpoints (#1500 - \"Why I Am an Agnostic: Including Expressions of Faith from a Protestant a Catholic and a Jew\" by Clarence Darrow). Shorter works from many popular authors such as Jack London and Henry David Thoreau were published, as were a number of anti-religious tracts written by Robert Ingersoll, ex-Catholic priest Joseph McCabe, and Haldeman-Julius himself. A young Will Durant wrote a series of Blue Books on philosophy which were republished in 1926 by Simon & Schuster as \"The Story of Philosophy\", a popular work that remains in print today.\n\nDemand for existing titles remained steady throughout the Depression although only about 300 new titles would be released during the 1930s, the bulk appearing prior to 1932. Following World War II, the FBI under J. Edgar Hoover viewed the Little Blue Books' inclusion of such subjects as socialism, atheism, and frank treatment of sexuality as a threat and put Haldeman-Julius on their enemies list, getting him convicted of income tax evasion. This persecution caused a rapid decline in the number of bookstores carrying the Little Blue Books, and they slowly sank into obscurity by the 1950s, although still well remembered by older people who had read them in the 1920s and 1930s. The Cardinal Francis Spellman FBI file contains clear indications concerning the interest of the FBI on Haldeman-Julius Publications by 1955, after an anonymous letter in late 1954 alerted the government to a book that was under press \"vilifying\" the Cardinal. Spellman maintained a deep personal friendship with J. Edgar Hoover.\n\nAt the time of Emanuel Haldeman-Julius's death on July 31, 1951, the series would support 1873 active titles. The works continued to be reprinted until the Girard printing plant and warehouse was destroyed by fire in 1978 with 1914 total titles published. In the 1950s the San Diego, California-based atheist-Freethinker publication \"The Truth Seeker\" bought out most of their supply and raised prices.\n\nSeveral complete collections are known to exist including one at Pittsburg State University's Leonard H Axe Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4237582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4237582", "title": "Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board", "text": "Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board\n\nMadhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB), popularly known as Vyapam (व्यापम; an abbreviation of its Hindi name Madhya Pradesh \"Vyavsayik Pariksha Mandal\", व्यवसायिक परीक्शा मण्डल), is a professional examination board of Madhya Pradesh, India. It conducts various tests for admission to professional courses and streams. It is the largest examination conducting body of Madhya Pradesh and comes directly under the Directorate of Technical Education (Government of Madhya Pradesh). The Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board is a self-financed, autonomous incorporated body of State Govt. The Government has re-constituted the Board of Directors for taking decisions on policy and organizational matters through Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board Act. 2007.\n\nIt was in national news for the Vyapam scam, which was a massive admission and recruitment scam involving politicians, senior officials and businessmen. After the scam was unearthed, 2000 people were arrested, including the state's former education minister Laxmikant Sharma and MPPEB's exam controller Pankaj Trivedi.\n\nVyapam scam was a massive admission and recruitment scam involving politicians, senior officials and businessmen. Indore Bench of Madhya Pradesh High Court served notices to Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB) and Medical Council of India (MCI) following a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by parents of some students after reports that more than 300 ineligible candidates managed to get into the merit list. Complaints of irregularities and crooked deals in pre-medical test (PMT) were surfacing since 2009 but in the year 2013, a major scam was unearthed involving several officials and politicians from the state ruling party. The kingpin of the impersonation racket Dr. Jagdish Sagar was arrested and subsequently several other influential people were arrested including ex-Education Minister Laxmikant Sharma, MPPEB’s exam controller Pankaj Trivedi, MPPEB’s system analysts Nitin Mahendra and Ajay Sen and state PMT’s examination in-charge C. K. Mishra. The credit to expose the scam goes to Indore-based medical practitioner Dr. Anand Rai.\n\nThe Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board was initially set-up as Pre Medical Test Board by Government of Madhya Pradesh in the year 1970. Later, in the year 1981, Pre Engineering Board was constituted. Soon after, in the year 1982 both these Boards were amalgamated and named as Professional Examination Board (P.E.B.). Professional Examination Board by Govt. Order No.1325-1717-42-82 dated 17.04.1982 has been assigned the responsibility of conducting entrance tests for admission to various colleges in the state\n\nVyapam conducts the following examinations:\n\nMP Vyapam Recruitment 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "33541433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33541433", "title": "Mayadhar Raut", "text": "Mayadhar Raut\n\nGuru Mayadhar Raut (born 6 July 1930) is an Indian classical Odissi dancer, choreographer and Guru.\n\nRaut was born in the village Kantapenhara in Cuttack district, subsequently he received his dance training under the Guru-shishya tradition of Odissi by Rukmini Devi Arundale at Kalakshetra.\n\nHe is married to Mamta Khuntia, and they have one daughter and two sons; daughter Madhumita Raut is also a noted Odissi dancer.\n\nMayadhar Raut has played a major role in giving Odissi its classical 'shastra' based status. He introduced Mudra Vinyoga in 1955. His notable compositions include ‘Pashyati Dishi Dishi’ and ‘Priya Charu Shile’, composed in 1961.\n\nMayadhar Raut is considered a master of Natyashastra and Abhinaya Darpana, and has enriched the Abhinaya vocabulary of Odissi. He taught in Kala Vikas Kendra founded by Babulal Josi in Orissa, and trained dancers Surendranath Jena, Hare Krishna Behera and Ramani Ranjan Jena. Raut taught at Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra from 1970 until 1995.\n\nAs one of the founder member of Jayantika, an association formed in the 1950s, Guruji Mayadhar Raut has played a major role in giving Odissi its classical status. He is the first Odissi Guru to introduce MUDRA VINYOGA in the study of Odissi in 1955 and SANCHARIBHAVA in the Odissi dance items and also the first to present on stage enchanting Gitagovinda ASHTAPADIS, portraying SHRINGARA RASA. His notable compositions include ‘Pashyati Dishi Dishi’. ‘Priya Charu Shile’, composed in 1961. Earlier, only the Oriya songs or the ASHTAPADI ‘Lalit Lavanga Lata’ and ‘Dashavatar’ were taught and performed.\n\nGuru Mayadhar Raut has been honoured with - Padma Shri by the President of India, Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, Sahitya Kala Parishad Award, Utkal Pratibha Puraskar, Odissi Sangeet Natak Academy Award, Rajeev Gandhi Samman, Kavi Samrat Upendra Bhanja Award and Tagore Akademi Ratna - one-time honour of Tagore Samman as a part of the ongoing commemoration of the 150th Birth Anniversary of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore by the Sangeet Natak Akademy, National Academy of Music, Dance and Drama.\n\nIn 2010, his 80th birthday was marked by a five-day international festival of music and dance titled \"Yaatra\" in Delhi. On this occasion, a book titled, \"Odissi Yaatra - Journey of Guru Mayadhar Raut\", written by Aadya Kaktikar and edited by Madhumita Raut, was also released.\n\nA short documentary on the life and works of Guru Mayadhar Raut is available.\n\nIn August 2015, his 85th birthday was celebrated with a series of functions in Delhi and Jaipur by his disciple and daughter Madhumita Raut\n\nMayadhar Raut has received the following awards:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5395288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5395288", "title": "National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union", "text": "National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union\n\nThe National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union (NEHAWU) is a trade union in South Africa. With a membership of 235,000 it is the largest public sector union in the country. It organizes State, Health, Education and Welfare workers.\n\nThe NEHAWU is affiliated with the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU), and Public Services International and the [[Trade Union International of Public and Allied EmplNEHAWU AFFILIATION</ref>Mandela’s work dictates this work\n\n\n[[Category:Organisations based in Johannesburg]]\n[[Category:Congress of South African Trade Unions]]\n[[Category:Public Services International]]\n[[Category:Medicine and healthcare trade unions]]\n[[Category:Education trade unions]]\n[[Category:World Federation of Trade Unions]]\n[[Category:Trade unions established in 1987]]\n[[Category:Trade unions in South Africa]]\n[[Category:Medical and health organisations based in South Africa]]\n"}
{"id": "43099300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43099300", "title": "National Michael Chekhov Association", "text": "National Michael Chekhov Association\n\nThe National Michael Chekhov Association (NMCA) is an accredited actor training and teacher certification program in the Michael Chekhov Acting Technique.\n\nThe National Michael Chekhov Association (NMCA) began informally during the 1993 Association for Theatre in Higher Education (ATHE) conference at which the three founders, Mala Powers, Chekhov Estate Executrix; Lisa Dalton (actor), American representative on the International Michael Chekhov Association's Board; and Wil Kilroy, Professor, University of Southern Maine, were presenting workshops on the Michael Chekhov Acting Technique.\n\nWil Kilroy initiated the Chekhov Theatre Institute in 1994 during the University of Southern Maine (USM) Summer Sessions. Several years later, the course was granted full graduate and undergraduate accreditation from the State of Maine Educational System. From 1994 through 2006, the three teachers team-taught the program at USM, initiating the first Michael Chekhov Teacher Certification Track globally.\n\nIn 2008 Charlie Bowles hosted the NMCA's summer training intensive in Arlington, TX. His involvement quickly escalated, becoming the Secretary and Treasurer on the NMCA Board. Charlie also acts as the Executive Producer of NMCA programming and was responsible for the creation the current NMCA training format and its sister publications.\n\nNMCA holds weeklong, 55-hour training intensives in various parts of the United States every year. Currently, the two main intensives are held in January at the University of Florida and in July at the University of Southern Maine.\n\nParticipants attend a weeklong intensive, learning the various tools of the technique while applying them to scene work, culminating in a final performance showcase.\n\nParticipants attend two weeklong intensives, learning the various tools of the technique while applying them to scene work, culminating in a final performance. Toward the end of the course, the teacher candidate will lead the attending class in a selected tool, as well as, attend an additional day at the end the intensive to synthesize their understanding through discussion. Finally, the teacher candidate must complete and present an approved project that demonstrates their mastery of the technique and ability to effectively communicate its use to others.\n\nCharlie Bowles\n\nLisa Dalton\n\nWill Kilroy\n\nMala Powers\nNMCA at University of Florida\n\nNMCA at University of Southern Maine\n"}
{"id": "8935913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8935913", "title": "OSS Watch", "text": "OSS Watch\n\nOSS Watch is the United Kingdom's advisory service for issues relating to free software and open source software based at the University of Oxford.\n\nOSS Watch started as a pilot project funded by Jisc in July 2003. It has provided consultations and briefing materials about the legal, social, technical and economic aspects of open source software. OSS Watch also organises and attends conferences and workshops relating to free and open source software both within and outside the academic sector.\n\nFrom 2003 until 2013, OSS Watch received funding via the Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) to provide support to the Further Education (FE) and Higher Education (HE) sectors. From 2013, OSS Watch is funded partly from the University of Oxford, and partly from consultancy, training and other services, and is not restricted to supporting education.\n\nOSS Watch is not an advocacy group. Instead it seeks to provide rounded and unbiased advice and guidance, both for organisations selecting software solutions, and for those creating software.\n\nOSS Watch provides assistance to organisations, communities and projects including\n\nIn 2013, OSS Watch began publishing Open Source Options for Education, a list of free and open source software packages that could be used in place of commonly used closed-source solutions. This built upon the work of the UK Cabinet Office, which released a list for the UK public sector.\n\nOSS Watch provides both reactive and proactive support to a wide range of projects. Their mission is to ensure that software developed using public funding is, wherever possible, made available under free and open source licenses. Recent success stories have seen them participate in the creation of Opencast Matterhorn, a worldwide community project building audio and video capture and delivery software, as well as the migration of a W3C Widget standards compliant widget engine from an EU funded project into the Apache Software Foundations Incubator.\n\nThe organisation also produces a wide range of high quality and regularly reviewed briefing notes on topics relating to open source use, development and adoption. An index of these documents can be found one the OSS Watch Website. All OSS Watch materials are available for reuse under a creative commons license.\n\nBeing a non-advocacy service OSS Watch is uniquely positioned to provide an unbiased opinion on free and open source in general, without the influence of commercial need. For this reason their materials are often regarded as the clearest and most thorough on the subject of Free and Open Source Software since there is little need to \"read between the lines\" in order to interpret opinion against the potential for a hidden agenda.\n\nIn addition to consultations and the production of briefing materials OSS Watch organise a number of education and training events each year. As with their publications, OSS Watch are able to use their non-advoacy status to attract speakers from all areas of the computing sphere in order to create extremely well informed events.\n\nMembers of OSS Watch also attend events both nationally and internationally to engange with the wider software and education communities.\n\nThe OSS Watch team is made up of a balance of academic and business oriented people with a wide range of backgrounds. Between June 2007 and June 2010 the team was led by Ross Gardler, a recognised open source participant (Ross has served in many roles, including Vice President of Community Development, a member of the Board of Directors at The Apache Software Foundation, President of the ASF and mentor for many other project communities). In June 2011 Ross left to form a spin-out company (and later joined Microsoft Open Technologies, Inc in 2013) and was replaced as OSS Watch manager by Sander van der Waal. In September 2012, Scott Wilson of CETIS and the Apache Wookie project joined OSS Watch replacing Sander as Service Manager. The current team features three full-time staff and several other members with a variety of backgrounds from Computer Science to Anthropology. The organisation's advisory committee includes representatives from the academic, not-for-profit and business sectors.\n\nThis mix of skills and resources allows the team to examine free and open source software from many different angles, including practical, statistical and cultural.\n\nAlthough OSS Watch is a group within the IT Services unit of the University of Oxford (formerly Oxford University Computing Services), for most of its history it has been funded to operate as a national service rather than to support the University of Oxford. However, one impact of the changes to national funding in 2013 has been that the organisation has focused more of its effort on supporting academic departments and central IT services at the University of Oxford.\n\nBeing an organisation based in an academic institution and targeting academic developers may be somewhat limiting to for OSS Watch. Although there are many excellent minds in the sector their primary job function is rarely to develop software. As a result, the driving forces behind these individuals may be quite different from those in for-profit organisations. Even where individuals are employed as software developers, in administration and support teams for example, the sector usually sees itself as being unique and therefore with little to share.\n\nSimilarly, most academic related software development projects are short lived experimental projects. This often means that they are never intended to be long lived, only to prove or disprove the applicability of an approach. Some people therefore question the value of academically developed software.\n\nMoving from a funded service within the education sector to a self-sustaining model addresses some of these limitations, but will bring other challenges.\n\nIn June 2011 Ross Gardler and Steve Lee span out a company from OSS Watch. This company, OpenDirective, provides very similar services to OSS Watch in both the public and private sectors. This company remains closely connected with the University of Oxford and OSS Watch and seeks to expand the revenue streams available to OSS Watch as well as to provide more proactive support rather than just advice. OpenDirective is providing support to a number of the flagship projects that are of interest to the commercial sector while OSS Watch continues to provide services to those projects that are solely of interest to the academic sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "556651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556651", "title": "Oersted Medal", "text": "Oersted Medal\n\nThe Oersted Medal recognizes notable contributions to the teaching of physics. Established in 1936, it is awarded by the American Association of Physics Teachers. The award is named for Hans Christian Ørsted. It is the Association's most prestigious award.\n\nWell-known recipients include Nobel laureates Robert Andrews Millikan, Edward M. Purcell, Richard Feynman, Isidor I. Rabi, Norman F. Ramsey, Hans Bethe, and Carl Wieman; as well as Arnold Sommerfeld, George Uhlenbeck, Jerrold Zacharias, Philip Morrison, Melba Phillips, Victor Weisskopf, Gerald Holton, John A. Wheeler, Frank Oppenheimer, Robert Resnick, Carl Sagan, Freeman Dyson, Daniel Kleppner, and Lawrence Krauss, and Anthony French, David Hestenes, Robert Karplus, Robert Pohl, and Francis Sears.\n\nThe 2008 medalist, Mildred S. Dresselhaus, is the third woman to win the award in its 70-plus-year history.\n\n"}
{"id": "38959898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38959898", "title": "OpenCoffee Club", "text": "OpenCoffee Club\n\nThe OpenCoffee Club is an open concept originated in 2007 in London by Saul Klein, one of the founders of Skype. The goal was to encourage entrepreneurs, developers and investors to become acquainted with each other in informal gatherings so that the investment industry become more transparent and thus to encourage entrepreneurship.\n\nMeetings are held worldwide every week at over 100 locations as the timing and content varies by city.\n\n"}
{"id": "26932955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26932955", "title": "Paul Harding (author)", "text": "Paul Harding (author)\n\nPaul Harding (born 1967) is an American musician and author, best known for his debut novel \"Tinkers\" (2009), which won the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the 2010 PEN/Robert W. Bingham Prize among other honors. Harding was the drummer in the band Cold Water Flat throughout its existence from 1990 to 1996.\n\nPaul Harding grew up on the north shore of Boston in the town of Wenham, Massachusetts. As a youth he spent a lot of time \"knocking about in the woods,\" which he attributes to his love of nature. His grandfather fixed clocks and he apprenticed under him, an experience that found its way into his novel \"Tinkers\". Harding has a B.A. in English from the University of Massachusetts Amherst and an MFA from the Iowa Writers' Workshop and has taught writing at Harvard University and the University of Iowa.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Massachusetts, he spent time touring with his band Cold Water Flat in the US and Europe. He had always been a heavy reader and recalls reading Carlos Fuentes' \"Terra Nostra\" and thinking \"this is what I want to do\". In that book Harding \"saw the entire world, all of history\". When he next had time off from touring with the band he signed up for a summer writing class at Skidmore College in New York. His teacher was Marilynne Robinson and through her he learned about the Iowa Writers' Workshop writing program. There he studied with Barry Unsworth, Elizabeth McCracken and later Robinson. At some point he realized some of the people he admired most were \"profoundly religious\" and so he spent years reading theology, and was \"deeply\" influenced by Karl Barth and John Calvin. He considers himself a \"self-taught modern New England transcendentalist\".\n\nHarding's second novel, \"Enon\" (2013), concerns characters from his first novel, \"Tinkers\", looking at the lives of George Crosby's grandson, Charlie Crosby, and his daughter Kate.\n\nMusically, he admires jazz drummers and considers John Coltrane's drummer, Elvin Jones, the greatest.\n\nHarding lives near Boston with his wife and two sons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21932654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21932654", "title": "Perth Institute of Business and Technology", "text": "Perth Institute of Business and Technology\n\nEdith Cowan College (ECC) was previously known as Perth Institute of Business and Technology (PIBT) is an Australian tertiary education provider.\nEdith Cowan College (ECC) is located in Perth, Western Australia and is accredited by Government under the Higher Education Act 2004 to provide a range of higher education courses. Edith Cowan College has been in partnership with Edith Cowan University (ECU) since 1994. Since then over 9,000 students have successfully transitioned into Edith Cowan University (ECU).\n\nECC is the founding college of Navitas, a public company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange and the largest group of Higher Education colleges in Australia. Navitas has colleges in most state capitals plus sister colleges in London, Africa and Canada. Since 1994 ECC and Edith Cowan University have worked together to provide pathway programs to university in Australia.\n\nChief Executive Officer – Mr Rod Jones Appointed 18 June 2004\nMr Jones has 30 years experience in educational administration and has held a number of senior administrative positions within the Government and the private education sectors. His background covers both secondary and university education including being Deputy Director of the Tertiary Institutions Service Centre and the Secondary Education Authority. Mr Jones has been involved in international education since 1987 and is recognized as one of the leaders in the successful establishment of the sector in Australia. He is one of the co-founders of Navitas and has been instrumental in the expansion and development of the Navitas model into the various markets which it now operates. In April 2007 Mr Jones received an Honorary Doctor of Education from Edith Cowan University in recognition of his contributions to increasing student participation in education.\n\nCampus Location\nECC is located on ECU’s Mt Lawley and Joondalup campuses. The Mt Lawley campus is 10 minutes from Perth central business district. The Joondalup campus is 25km from Perth.\n\nEnrolments\nECC has approximately 900 students from over 90 countries and 9,000 graduates of both Australian and International students. It provides an alternative entry to university studies and a guaranteed pathway into the second year of a Bachelor degree at Edith Cowan University.\n\nECC provides (Diploma) pathway programs in the areas of Commerce, Hotel Management, Communications and Creative Industries, Science (Computer / IT), Science (Engineering Studies), and Science (Health Studies) including Nursing, which lead into the 2nd Year of the respective Degree courses at Edith Cowan University (ECU). A three-semester system allows students to complete most courses in 8 months.\n\nECC also offers English Language courses for people from non-English speaking countries and direct entry pathways for International students wishing to undertake university study. ECC offers the Academic English program at all levels from beginner to advanced.\n\nThe Student Support Program has been established to link new students with senior ECC and University students to assist with everyday matters relating to living and studying in Australia. All new students are assigned a Student Leader who assists them over the first few weeks of their arrival. A Student Counsellor is available to assist with welfare and pastoral care and all discussions are kept confidential. The Student Counsellor is available to meet with students.\n\n"}
{"id": "13531511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13531511", "title": "Riding school bus", "text": "Riding school bus\n\nA riding school bus is a group of schoolchildren supervised by one or more adults, riding pedal cycles along a set route, picking children up at \"bus stops\" along the way until they all arrive at school. Riding school buses are similar to walking bus programs. Like a traditional bus, riding school buses (also known as RSBs) have a fixed route with designated \"bus stops\" and \"pick up times\" in which they pick up children. Ideally the riding school bus will include at least 1 adult ‘driver’, who leads the group, and an adult ‘conductor' who supervises from the end of the group.\n\nRiding school bus programs have been developed in a number of local councils in Victoria, Australia, including City of Moreland and Shire of East Gippsland\n\nRiding school bus programs deliver a number of benefits:\n\nRiding school buses are also known as pedal pods or Cycling School Buses \n\n"}
{"id": "1967202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1967202", "title": "School band", "text": "School band\n\nA school band is a group of student musicians who rehearse and perform instrumental music together. A concert band is usually under the direction of one or more conductors (band directors). A school band consists of woodwind instruments, brass instruments and percussion instruments, although upper level bands may also have string basses or bass guitar.\n\nSchool bands in the United Kingdom are generally similar to those in the US although pure brass bands are more commonplace in schools than in the US. Some countries usually prefer certain special types of bands, usually drums, over conventional ones. The school band movement in Japan is unusually strong, organized around an enormous competition system administered by the All-Japan Band Association. Many international observers of Japanese school bands consider them to be the most impressive in the world, particularly among very young students, and Japan is also home to one of the world's leading professional concert bands, the Tokyo Kosei Wind Orchestra.\n\nAlthough some children learn an instrument prior to entering a middle school (or junior high), students in music education programs within the United States and Canada generally start daily band classes in the 6th or 7th Grade. Many band programs begin as early as 4th or 5th grade. The students usually make up a band based upon their grade, which may then be broken up into sectionals to provide better instrument-specific instruction. It is sometimes required for beginner students to play a recorder for a year before learning another instrument, so that basics, such as scales, embouchure, etc. can be taught easily. Other requirements may include learning a piano or guitar to understand basic music theory, notation, etc.\n\nA \"beginning\" band, consisting of the youngest students in the school, usually gives two or three concerts a year, and may participate in a local/state contest. These bands are given easy music to learn, often with many duplicate parts and simple rhythms. Students sometimes may be required to memorize the 12 major scales.\nDepending upon the size of the school, there may be one to three \"higher level\" bands after the beginning band. These bands are usually divided similarly to high school bands. Some schools require students to audition and be placed in a band according to their ability on their instrument. Others will assign students based on their performance as seen in class. Yet others will simply sort the students according to their age or grade level. Most of these decisions are decided by the conductor. These higher level bands will occasionally play in high school games and pep rallies to augment the local high school band, although in small schools they always come to these events. Beginning bands usually are used in the spot of an elective.\n\nInstruments typically in beginning bands:\n\n\nSome bands will also have a \"percussion kit\", which will allow them to play bells and drums\n\nHigh school bands typically challenge students musically more than those in middle school. Music is much more difficult with more complex passages, intricate rhythms and more involved phrasing. Selections also vary in style. A well-rounded band is expected to be able to play a wide variety of music, ranging from serious 'program music' to lighter 'pop-style' music. For many high school students, school bands are the main form of music education available to them in school. Marches were the first major contributions to the wind band repertoire. There are many pieces other than marches written for wind band at present, but there are some historical standards that should be included into the repertoire of advanced ensembles. Some of the most notable of these pieces are Holst's \"First Suite in E-flat\" and \"Second Suite in F\", and Grainger's \"Children's March\" and \"Lincolnshire Posy\" among others.\n\nBelow is a list of the instrumentation in a typical concert band at the high school level. The number of instruments in each section varies, but listed below are usually the average number of members. Middle school/junior high bands are usually around the upper values for each instrument. Instrumentation in beginner bands is usually much larger than this. College and professional bands generally have smaller numbers of players. These numbers may vary widely, based on the instrument and the people playing them (as many people playing instruments such as trombones may drop out, causing others to change instruments to fill the need). Some bands have a set number of performers per section while other bands have open unlimited participation.\n\nWoodwind\n\nBrass\n\nStrings\n\nPercussion\n\nIn most middle school bands, strings (besides the string bass) are not used. If they are, the band is generally considered an orchestra.\n\nThe first high school band in the United States was the Boston Farm and Trade School Band, founded in 1856.\nThe oldest high school band in America is The Christian Brothers Band (Memphis) founded in 1882.\n\nMany colleges/universities have band as a class. Some are integrated within a 'Music' course while others are not. They tend to be larger than a high school band and play at a higher level.\n\nThere are many other school band opportunities for students. Most of these fall under the jurisdiction of the director that teaches the daily band classes, whether or not the smaller groups meet daily or during school hours.\n\nMany schools, especially high schools in the United States, have a marching band. A school marching band may contain from 11 to over 500 students. Marching bands often practice frequently during the late summer and early fall and most often attend their school's football games, playing music in the stands, and marching a show during halftime. A show is usually between 6 and 10 minutes long, but many competitions place restrictions on length. Bands often compete in marching band competitions throughout the marching season (typically the same time as football season). Competitions vary in intensity. Some areas have many smaller, local competitions hosted by individual schools. Others host a regional competition. Others, such as Bands of America competitions are nationally known and take place in professional arenas.\n\nIn addition to their show, marching bands often march parades. Often this is limited to their city or town's municipal parades, but some bands travel to participate in well known parades, such as the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade or the Tournament of Roses Parade on New Years Day.\n\nMany schools have jazz programs in addition to their concert program. Different schools have different time slots for their jazz band. Some meet as an actual class during the school day. Others choose to practice after school or before school two or three times a week. Meeting as a class during school can often cause schedule conflicts with students' academic classes. Many times jazz band may rehearse during the study hall, free period, or part of the lunch period. Typical instrumentation for jazz ensembles will include trumpets, trombones, alto, tenor and baritone saxophones, a drum set (often called a \"trap set\",) guitar, bass guitar, piano, clarinet and often, a vibraphone or marimba. Many areas have jazz festivals, but the popularity of these widely vary from different regions of the country. Jazz bands are most often used as an ambassador ensemble for the band program as a whole. In addition, jazz education is seen as growing in popularity as a specialty area within school music departments. Possibly a person can only be in the jazz band if they are 7th grade or higher.\n\nSchools rarely have chamber music ensembles that meet as real classes, usually depending on the region, state and budget. Most of these groups are \"ad hoc\" ensembles put together by the director or the students themselves for a contest or recital. Examples would be clarinet quartets, woodwind quintet, brass quintet, duets, and trios. Groups consisting of the entire woodwind or brass section, or even percussion section of a band are also sometimes formed.\n\nPerhaps not associated with the individual school, All-Region bands are audition-only groups for the most advanced players in each school. There are many different \"All-Region\" bands, ranging from the most local \"All-County\" or \"All-District\"(when referring to school districts) to the more prestigious \"All-State\". Many states also have a level between County and State bands which varies in name according to the area. These events are often highly enjoyed by the students that attend them. Musical literature is often increased in difficulty for the concerts, providing a challenge that isn't seen at schools. Students also get to meet new players on their instrument and share stories from their own band experiences. Region bands typically last over a weekend, though some may meet for over a week before performing a concert.\n\nThough not associated with All-State, Florida has a statewide band festival called Festival of Winds, held in Tampa at The University of South Florida in the first weekend of December. Also, Florida, Alabama, and Georgia have a band festival called Tri-State, held in Tallahassee, Florida at Florida State University in the same time period as Festival of Winds.\n\nModern band is an instrumental and vocal school music program taught in a growing number of public schools systems in the U.S. Instrumentation typically includes acoustic guitar, electric guitar, electric bass, keyboard, vocals, computers and percussion instruments. The repertoire of modern band is evolving as it draws from commercially dominant and contemporary music styles of the day such as pop, rock, disco, reggae, hip-hop and more.\n\nMajor public school systems that offer Modern Band programming include those in the New York City Department of Education, Los Angeles Unified School District, Chicago Public Schools and others. Modern band is a new movement in public school music education circles. The term \"Modern Band\" was coined by a music education non-profit, Little Kids Rock, who partners with school districts from economically challenged communities to expand their music programs.\n\n\"Band geek\" or \"band nerd\" is a high school stereotype of a person obsessed with playing band music. However, the term usually relates to the belief that most people who are in school bands are socially inept. The term is sometimes used to describe any student who plays an instrument and is in a band class (including students in the orchestra). \"Orch dork\" is a variation specifically for members of school orchestras. These terms have become a label of pride for many band members, being found on T-shirts, bumper stickers, etc.\n\nIn school bands, more girls than boys tend to play most woodwind instruments, especially flute, and more boys than girls tend to play brass instruments, saxophone, and percussion. However, this is not always the case.\n\nThese stereotypes can be avoided when band directors assess each student for musical capacity, as well as, meet with students individually to analyze their physical characteristics. For example, petite students would be more successful playing the clarinet over the tuba. Additionally, the role of gender bias in musical instrument assignment is highly debated in the field of music education. Some feel that it should be left alone while others want to combat it. One way band directors can overcome these stereotypes is to have live demonstrations from musicians playing gender atypical instruments (i.e., males playing flute, females playing tuba).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43261698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43261698", "title": "Sharon Lamb", "text": "Sharon Lamb\n\nSharon Lamb (born September 11, 1955), is an American professor in the Department of Counseling and School Psychology at the University of Massachusetts Boston's, College of Education and Human Development, and a fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA). She also sits on the editorial board of the academic journals \"Feminism & Psychology,\" and \"Sexualization, Media, and Society\".\n\nLamb is one of the authors of the APA's report into the sexualization of girls, which according to an article on \"Women and Hollywood\" is \"the most downloaded document in the history of the APA’s website\". She is also a co-author for the APA's Guidelines for Psychological Practice with Girls and Women. \n\nSharon Lamb also practices psychology in Shelburne Vermont where she performs evaluations for the courts, attachment evaluations and custody evaluations, and sees private therapy clients.\n\nLamb gained both her EdD in Human Development, and her EdM in Counseling and Consulting Psychology from Harvard Graduate School of Education. She also obtained her PhD at the Free University (Vrije Universiteit) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, under the supervision of philosophers Doret de Ruyter and Jan Steutel.\n\nShe is married to the pianist Paul Orgel and has/had two sons. Her younger son died on July 6, 2018 at the age of 26. Her older son lives with his family in Austin, Texas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57341101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57341101", "title": "Stand for the Second", "text": "Stand for the Second\n\nStand for the Second was a student-led demonstration in support of the United States Second Amendment held on May 2, 2018. The demonstration was in response to the March for Our Lives protest held on March 24, 2018. \n\nWill Riley, an 18 year old high school senior from Carlsbad High School in Carlsbad, New Mexico, organized the event with the help of the Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund. Riley stated in the aftermath of the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, \"I'm watching the news and I see they're saying, 'We have to do something about this. We have to enact some sort of gun control legislation because this is what the kids are asking for.' And I'm thinking, 'I'm not asking for that. I look at my friends and I think 'They're not asking for that.'\"\n\nRiley wrote an op-ed for the \"Carlsbad Current-Argus\" on April 11, 2018, where he wrote about the walkout to garner interest.\n\nThe event's website stated \"We have not ignored the huge movement of our peers against these fundamental human rights and liberties, but the American people must know not all of our generation shares in the shortsighted destruction of our Constitution.\" \n\nThe protests started at 10:00AM and lasted for 16 minutes, one minute less than the March for our Lives protest. The official website listed over 500 schools in 40 states across the U.S. participating in the event, but the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote those numbers could not be independently verified.\n\n\"The Washington Times\" reported no celebrities endorsed or attended the event and it received much less media attention.\n\nKyle Kashuv, a survivor of the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, tweeted \"I will not be walking out today. I don't believe it is the correct thing to do. Disrupting 1000s of classrooms around the country isn't the answer. There's a time and place for civil disobedience, I just don't believe that time is now. Instead, let's all #WalkUp!#FIXIT\"\n\nRiley was commended for the protest by the Eddy County Sheriff Mark Cage on April 25, 2018. Riley was sworn in as an honorary sheriff's deputy for his efforts. It was the first time Cage had presented the honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "12262449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12262449", "title": "State School Teachers Union of Western Australia", "text": "State School Teachers Union of Western Australia\n\nThe State School Teachers Union of W.A. (Inc.) (SSTUWA) is an Australian trade union. It represents teachers working in the Western Australian state school system, which includes public schools and TAFE institutes, and is affiliated with the federal Australian Education Union. It has been in continuous existence since 1898.\n\nThe SSTUWA has a number of roles, including\n\n"}
{"id": "40776697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40776697", "title": "Tombi Bell", "text": "Tombi Bell\n\nTombi Bates (born April 19, 1979), formerly known as Tombi Bell, is an American former professional basketball player, who last played for the Minnesota Lynx of the WNBA.\n\nBell played for Miami Norland Senior High School, and during her tenure there, was one of the top players in her county.\n\nBell played for the Florida Gators from 1997 to 2001. She was featured in an April 2001 article for \"The Gainesville Sun\".\n\nBell was drafted by the Minnesota Lynx in 2001.\n\nBell spent the 2005-2006 season as an assistant coach of the Miami Hurricanes. Bell later became an NCAA certified referee and a FIBA certified official.\n\nBell graduated from Florida with bachelor's degree in exercise and sports sciences with a specialization in sport management in 2002. Bell is the sister of NBA player, Raja Bell. As of 2013, Bell is a physical education teacher at José Martí MAST 6-12 Academy.\n"}
{"id": "18183106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18183106", "title": "United Nations Institute for Namibia", "text": "United Nations Institute for Namibia\n\nThe United Nations Institute for Namibia (UNIN) was an educational body set up by the United Nations Council for Namibia from 1976-1990. Based in Zambia's capital of Lusaka, UNIN was the brainchild of United Nations Commissioner for Namibia Seán MacBride, the proposal creating UNIN was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1974. The forerunner to the current University of Namibia, UNIN sought to educate Namibians for roles in an independent Republic of Namibia.\n\nAs states across Africa achieved independence, Namibia remained illegally ruled by Apartheid South Africa. Treated as a fifth province, Namibia did not have its own tertiary educational system. Bantu Education, or purposely inferior education for Black Namibians, was the norm education in Namibia for Black Namibians. The United Nations Council for Namibia under Seán MacBride put forth a plan in February 1974 for a tertiary educational institution for Namibia in Africa, preferably Zambia. On 26 August 1976 (Namibian Heroes' Day), President of Zambia Kenneth Kaunda formally inaugurated the institute in Lusaka.\n\nFunding for UNIN was provided for, on a short term basis, by the United Nations Fund for Namibia, itself funded by individual government donations and private organizations such as the Ford Foundation.\n\nClosing in September 1990 (6 months after formal independence was achieved), UNIN's files have been transferred to the archival unit at the University of Namibia.\n\n"}
{"id": "33411597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33411597", "title": "Video games in education", "text": "Video games in education\n\nThis page includes some history of video games being used as an additional or alternative method to education. It also goes over whether or not it may be beneficial to use video games for educational purposes in the classroom and the limitations that teachers have to using video games in the classroom. This page additionally discusses how learning from video games outside the classroom is possible as well. \n\nVideo games have been found to be more engaging; instead of providing information over an extended class period, games provide small amounts of information at relevant stages. It is traditionally considered optimal for a game to provide gameplay that is doable but challenging enough that the player must work at its completion. Because games follow this model, they create a certain degree of frustration in the player; however, this does not deter them from wanting to play, instead giving them more motivation to continue playing. Whether this engagement facilitates learning is still uncertain. \n\nAs early as 1978, research was conducted relating video games to the motivational effects involved in learning as well as their cognitive potential. As video games spread in the 1980s, the research became more diversified. Its findings showed that the visual and motor coordination of game players was better than that of non-players. Initial research also indicated the importance of electronic games for children who proved to have difficulty learning basic subjects and skills. It also found that:\n\nOne common argument for the use of video games in education is that they enable learning from the simulation while having no danger associated with mistakes. For instance, the Air Force uses piloting simulations in order to teach their pilots how to fly the airplanes. These simulations are meant to prepare the training pilot for real-world flight conditions while at the same time preventing any damage or loss of life in the process. A pilot could crash in the simulation, learn from their mistake and then reset and try again. This process leads to distinct levels of mastery over the simulation and in turn the plane they will also be flying in the future. The military also utilizes games such as the \"ARMA\" and \"Socom\" franchises in their training. Games like these immerse the gamer into the realm of the game and will attempt to achieve whatever objective is set out for them using their tactical skills. This allows for the military to show their soldiers how to engage certain situations without the risk of injury.\n\nGames of all types have been shown to increase a different array of skills for players. Attempts have been made to show that arcade-style action and platforming games can be used to develop motor co-ordination, manual skills, and reflexes. Many authors have noted the educational potential of games like \"The Sims\" (for its social simulation) or the \"Civilization\" series (for its historical and strategy elements), concluding that video games as a whole promote intellectual development, and suggest that players can use them to develop knowledge strategies, practice problem-solving, and can improve spatial skills.\n\nSome teachers have attempted to use video games within a classroom setting. There is some evidence which shows that for young children, educational video games promote student engagement.\n\nVideo games are inherently incentive-based systems with the player being rewarded for solving a problem or completing a mission, while meeting certain criteria. As a result, video games train a systematic way of thinking as well as an understanding for how different variables affect each other. Furthermore, video games can constantly and automatically assess the learner's ability at any given moment due to the software-based nature of the medium; modular education structures tend to deliver assessments in large chunks and present a relatively limited picture of student progress.\n\nVideo games such as \"Minecraft\" and \"Portal\" have been suggested as platforms for teachers to experiment with their educational abilities. \"Minecraft\" is a sandbox game in which the user can create objects using the crafting system, while \"Portal\" is a physics game: the player uses the laws of physics, such as gravity and inertia, to advance through the game's series of test chambers. Critical thinking and problem solving are inherent in the latter game's design. Both \"Minecraft\" and \"Portal\" are adaptable to some learning environments; for instance, \"Minecraft\" has been used for young children while \"Portal\" has been used by high school physics teachers. \"Portal 2\" has also been used to develop cognitive skills in older undergraduate students, however. A 2017 study found that games including \"Portal 2\", \"Borderlands 2\", \"Gone Home\" and \"Papers, Please\" may be used to develop a range of skills in undergraduate students, such as communication, resourcefulness and adaptability.\n\nOne study showed that using a video game as part of class discussions, as well as including timely and engaging exercises relating the game to class material, can improve student performance and engagement. Instructors assigned groups of students to play the video game \"SPORE\" in a freshman undergraduate biology course on evolution. The group of students that was assigned to play SPORE and complete related exercises, in a total of five sessions throughout the semester, had average class scores about 4% higher than the non-gaming group. The game's inaccuracies helped to stimulate critical thinking in students; one student said it helped her understand \"the fine parts of natural selection, artificial selection, survival of the fittest, and genetic diversity because of the errors within the game. It was like a puzzle.\" However, because the game was accompanied by additional exercises and instructor attention, this study is not overwhelming evidence for the hypothesis that video games in isolation increase student engagement.\n\nStudents who have played \"Europa Barbarorum\" had knowledge of historical geography beyond the scope taught during the basic ancient history course. They were able to identify the most important stages of civilization development in the case of states of the Hellenistic era and were very knowledgeable about military history and history of art. This knowledge was in large part derived from the comprehensive descriptions included in the game; students also admitted that after playing the game they were much more eager to turn to books dealing with the given historical period. However, Whether or not this intention materialized into more reading of historical periods is not clear. \n\nAnother source studied teachers using \"Civilization III\" in high school history classrooms, both during and after school. In this study, not all students were in favor of using the game. Many students found it too difficult and tedious. Some students, particularly high-performing students, were concerned about how it could affect their studies; they felt that \"Civilization III was insufficient preparation for the 'game' of higher education.\" However, students who were failing in the traditional school setting often did significantly better in the game-based unit, and the game seemed to get their attention where traditional schooling did not.\n\nAccording to an article on interactive video games in physical education, many of these types of games are not just animated exercise. Many have different assessments and scores based on performance of skills. Some have heart rate monitors and estimate caloric expenditure. Others are designed with enhancing motor abilities in mind. Abilities such as balance, hand-eye coordination, agility and core strength are a few of the motor skills enhanced. These engaging and interactive games have the ability to teach kids about the some physiological functions of the body. One example is that these games can help show kids how their heart reacts to different activities by using the heart rate monitor within the game.\n\nOne study took the game Semideus to see if it could help to improve performance on rational number tasks, the understanding of whole numbers and mathematical thinking in general. The study concluded if kids were introduced to games that have math well integrated into the gameplay then it kids then it will help them with their skills. the study recommended that the teacher be involved the game based learning to improve its effectiveness in the students learning.\n\nAccording to journal article, simulation video games makes the player to learn to think critically while gaining knowledge of the environment. The player learns to solve problems through trial and error. Players are able to learn by doing. They learn by experiencing things first-hand and role-playing. These virtual environments enable better learning, collaboration, and enhanced practical reasoning skills.\n\nOne argument for possible negative effects explains how kids are already spending too much time with technology outside the classroom. It explains that over seven and a half hours a day are being used by children eight to eighteen on media outside of school. With the large amount of time technology is being used by children, this argument claims that the time spent on screens may be replacing critical face to face communication may be negatively affecting children's face to face communication skills. To find out if this was true or not an experiment was done where two groups were taken from the same school. One group had many different bonding activities without access to a screen throughout the course of five days. While the second group was allowed to use their screens how they normally do. To test their face to face communication skills both groups took pre and post tests for comparison. The results suggested that those who were went away for the five days did much better in reading facial emotion than the control group.\n\nMany teachers have reservations about using video games. One study asked teachers who had some experience using games in class why they didn't do it more often. Six general categories of factors were identified as problem areas:\n\n\nSome teachers were more concerned about some problems than others. Male teachers were less concerned about limited budgets, fixed class hours, and the lack of supporting materials than were female teachers. Inexperienced teachers were more worried about fixed class schedules and the lack of supporting materials than were experienced teachers.\n\nCommercial video games in general, referred to as commercial off the shelf (COTS) games, have been suggested as having a potentially important role to assist learning in a range of crucial transferable skills. One example of this would be in first-person shooter games such as the \"Call of Duty\" franchise (although these games are violent by nature, and they have been subject to massive negative reception by parents with varying justification). While the \"Call of Duty\" franchise itself falls short of actual tactical strategy or realism in depth, there are many games in the same \"genre\" (first-person shooters) from which one can learn key skills from the games: they stimulate the player at the cognitive level as they move through the level, mission, or game as a whole. They also teach strategy, as players need to come up with ways to penetrate enemy lines, stealthily avoid the enemy, minimize casualties, and so on. Players can test their usage of these skills using the multiplayer aspect of these games. These games also allow players to enhance their peripheral vision, because they need to watch for movement on the screen and make quick decisions about whether it is a threat, to avoid wasting ammunition or harming allied players.\n\nOther games, such as the \"Guitar Hero\" and \"Rock Band\" franchises, have been used to provide insight to the basic nature of education in video games. Success at these games requires the player to first fail multiple times – this is the only way to learn the proper actions. These games also provide real-time feedback on how well the player is doing, an area in which traditional educational systems are lacking. The main advantage with video games is that there is nothing to lose from failing, unlike in real life, where failing usually results in negative consequences.\n\nA research project involving positive use of video games is outlined in an article that focuses on studies that suggest there are health benefits to playing video games. This article presents information from studies from the University of Utah, Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia, 2009's \"Annual Review of Cybertherapy and Telemedicine\", University of Washington, Visual Development Lab of Ontario's McMaster University, University of Rochester in New York, and North Carolina State University. The researchers from these universities found that video games are therapeutic for children with chronic illnesses, can improve preschoolers' motor skills, reduce stress and depression, provide relief from pain, improve vision, improve decision making skills, and maintain happiness in old age as well.\n\nOne study suggests that commercial video games can help players to improve in certain skills such as communication, resourcefulness, and adaptability. In this study undergraduate students were assigned at random to be in either an intervention or a control group. To measure adaptability, resourcefulness and communication, there were self-report instruments given to both groups.\n\nAs noted above games are potentially a useful learning tool, but there are significant barriers to the use of video games in the classroom, including the time to learn and play, teacher and parent support, relevance to the Common Core (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Core_State_Standards_Initiative), and uncertain overall educational benefits of the medium as a whole. While video games have been found to promote student engagement, whether video games also promote subject learning or other benefits over the traditional classroom model is uncertain.\n\n"}
