{"id": "14827553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14827553", "title": "An Act further to protect the commerce of the United States", "text": "An Act further to protect the commerce of the United States\n\nAn Act further to protect the commerce of the United States, (5th Congress, Sess. 2, ch. 68, ) is an act of Congress approved July 9, 1798, authorizing the President of the United States to use military force in the Quasi-War with France.\n\nOn June 28, 1798 a committee appointed to consider President Adams' recommendations to Congress reported a bill further to protect the commerce of the United States which was received and read the first and second time. On July 2, 1798 the bill was amended and engrossed and the next day was read the third time, passed and sent to the Senate for concurrence.\n\nOn July 3, 1798 the Senate received the bill from the House and read it the first and second time. On July 6, 1798 the Senate passed the bill by a vote of 18 ayes and 4 nays. The bill was signed into law by President Adams on July 9, 1798.\n\nSECTION 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the President of the United States shall be, and he is hereby authorized to instruct the commanders of the public armed vessels which are, or which shall be employed in the service of the United States, to subdue, seize and take any armed French vessel, which shall be found within the jurisdictional limits of the United States, or elsewhere, on the high seas, and such captured vessel, with her apparel, guns and appurtenances, and the goods or effects which shall be found on board the same, being French property, shall be brought within some port of the United States, and shall be duly proceeded against and condemned as forfeited; and shall accrue and be distributed, as by law is or shall be provided respecting the captures which shall be made by the public armed vessels of the United States.\n\nSEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That the President of the United States shall be, and he is hereby authorized to grant to the owners of private armed ships and vessels of the United States, who shall make application therefor, special commissions in the form which he shall direct and under the seal of the United States; and such private armed vessels, when duly commissioned, as aforesaid, shad have the same license and authority for the subduing, seizing and capturing any armed French vessel, and for the recapture of the vessels, goods and effects of the people of the United States, as the public armed vessels of the United States may by law have; and shall be, in like manner, subject to such instructions as shall be ordered by the President of the United States, for the regulation of their conduct. And the commissions which shall be granted, as aforesaid, shall be revocable at the pleasure of the President of the United States.\n\nSEC. 3. Provided, and be it further enacted, That every person intending to set forth and employ an armed vessel, and applying for a commission, as aforesaid, shall produce in writing the name, and a suitable description of the tonnage and force of the vessel, and the name and place of residence of each owner concerned therein, the number of the crew and the name of the commander, and the two officers next in rank, appointed for such vessel; which writing shall be signed by the person or persons making such application, and filed with the Secretary of State, or shall be delivered to any other officer or person who shall be employed to deliver out such commissions, to be by him transmitted to the Secretary of State.\n\nSEC. 4. And provided, and be it further enacted, That before any commission, as aforesaid, shall be issued, the owner or owners of the ship or vessel for which the same shall be requested, and the commander thereof, for the time being, shall give bond to the United States, with at least two responsible sureties, not interested in such vessel in the penal sum of seven thousand dollars; or if such vessel be provided with more than one hundred and fifty men, then in the penal sum of fourteen thousand dollars; with condition that the owners, and officers, and crews who shall be employed on board of such commissioned vessel, shall and will observe the treaties and laws of the United States, and the instructions which shall be given them for the regulation of their conduct: And will satisfy all damages and injuries which shall be done or committed contrary to the tenor thereof, by such vessel, during her commission, and to deliver up the same when revoked by the President of the United States.\n\nSEC. 5. And be it further enacted, That all armed French vessels, together with their apparel, guns and appurtenances, and any goods or effects which shall be found on board the same, being French property, and which shall be captured by any private armed vessel or vessels of the United States, duly commissioned, as aforesaid, shall be forfeited, and shall accrue to the owners thereof, and the officers and crews by whom such captures shall be made; and on due condemnation had, shall be distributed according to any agreement which shall be between them; or in failure of such agreement, then by the discretion of the court before whom such condemnation shall be.\n\nSEC. 6. And be it further enacted, That all vessels, goods and effects, the property of any citizen of the United States or person resident therein, which shall be recaptured, as aforesaid, shall be restored to the lawful owners, upon payment by them, respectively, of a just and reasonable salvage, to be determined by the mutual agreement of the parties concerned, or by the decree of any court of the United States having maritime jurisdiction according to the nature of each case: Provided, that such allowance shall not be less than one eighth, or exceeding one half of the full value of such recapture, without any deduction. And such salvage shall be distributed to and among the owners, officers and crews of the private armed vessel or vessels entitled thereto, according to any agreement which shall be between them; or in case of no agreement, then by the decree of the court who shall determine upon such salvage.\n\nSEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That before breaking bulk of any vessel which shall be captured, as aforesaid, or other disposal or conversion thereof, or of any articles which shall be found on board the same, such capture shall be brought into some port of the United States, and shall be libelled and proceeded against before the district court of the same district; and if after a due course of proceedings, such capture shall be decreed as forfeited in the district court, or in the circuit court of the same district, in the case of any appeal duly allowed, the same shall be delivered to the owners and captors concerned therein, or shall be publicly sold by the marshal of the same court, as shall be finally decreed and ordered by the court. And the same court, who shall have final jurisdiction of any libel or complaint of any capture, as aforesaid shall and may decree restitution, in whole or in part, when the capture and restraint shall have been made without just cause, as aforesaid and if made without probable cause, or otherwise unreasonably, may order and decree damages and costs to the party injured, and for which the owners, officers, and crews of the private armed vessel or vessels by which such unjust capture shall have been made, and also such vessel or vessels shall be answerable and liable.\n\nSEC. 8. And be it further enacted, That all French persons and others, who shall be found acting on board any French armed vessel, which shall be captured, or on board of any vessel of the United States, which shall be recaptured, as aforesaid, shall be reported to the collector of the port in which they shall first arrive, and shall be delivered to the custody of the marshal, or of some civil or military officer of the United States, or of any state in or near such port; who shall take charge for their safe keeping and support, at the expense of the United States.\n\nAPPROVED, July 9, 1798.\n\n"}
{"id": "41916538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41916538", "title": "Armistice of Versailles", "text": "Armistice of Versailles\n\nThe Armistice of Versailles that came into effect on 28 January 1871 brought to an end the active phase of the Franco-Prussian War. The signatories were Jules Favre, foreign minister in the provisional Government of National Defence, for the French and Otto von Bismarck, chancellor of the newly established German Empire, for Prussia and her allies. The suspension of hostilities initially lasted until 19 February, when it was extended through 26 February, when a preliminary peace treaty was signed, also at Versailles. The definitive Treaty of Frankfurt was signed on 10 May. Although technically an armistice, the military position of France at the time and the terms were such that it was \"de facto\" a conditional surrender by the vanquished to the victors.\n\nOn the morning of 2 September, with the battle of Sedan raging about him, Napoleon III, Emperor of the French, ordered a white flag hoisted above the fortress of Sedan. The emperor then order the commander of the XII Corps, General Barthélémy Lebrun, to send a negotiator (\"parlementaire\") to the Prussians with a request for an armistice. The chief of staff of the Army of Châlons refused to sign any such agreement on behalf of the nominal, but wounded commander, Patrice de Mac-Mahon, and General Auguste-Alexandre Ducrot disclaimed any authority to do so because he had already been countermanded once by his superior, General Emmanuel de Wimpffen. Nevertheless, Lebrun and a non-commissioned officer with a white pennant crossed the lines to seek an armistice \"equally acceptable to both armies\", bearing a formal letter to that effect. Wimpffen, who would have signed the local armistice, only learned of the effort when he saw the white flag moving along the road. He refused to allow it.\n\nWhen the Prussian commander, Helmuth von Moltke, saw the white flag, he sent Fritz Bronsart von Schellendorf to find out what it meant. Napoleon sent him back with one of his own officers, General A.-C.-V. Reille, who carried a letter offering to surrender. After reading it, von Moltke sent Reille back with a letter of acceptance. Wimpffen was ordered to arrange the surrender. This day, \"Sedantag\" in German (French \"journée de Sedan\"), became a holiday in the German Empire. The first, brief attempt to avoid disaster through an armistice had failed and the emperor had become a prisoner of war.\n\nFavre, a staunch republican, was appointed vice president and minister of foreign affairs in the provisional government declared on 4 September 1870, after the capture of the Emperor Napoleon III. Like President Louis Jules Trochu, Favre did not believe France held a realistic chance of winning the war or even of defending Paris. Soon after the formation of the new government, Favre proposed to the cabinet that Germany be offered an indemnity in return for evacuating French territory. This was rejected, and Favre opened a channel of communications with Bismarck through the British ambassador in Paris, Lord Lyons. Bismarck questioned the legitimacy of the French government. On 17 September, Favre left Paris for the Prussian military headquarters to confer with Bismarck about an armistice. Only President Trochu and Minister of War Adolphe LeFlô of all the members of the government had knowledge of his plan.\n\nFavre crossed the German lines with a flag of truce and met Bismarck at Montry. From there they proceeded to the headquarters at Château de Ferrières, where two full days were exhausted in discussion, but no armistice was arranged before Favre returned to Paris on 19 September. Favre offered an indemnity of 500,000,000 francs, but refused Bismarck's request for territorial concessions. Favre's early public pronouncement that \"We will not surrender an inch of our territory, nor a stone of our fortresses!\" had become a slogan in Paris and was posted all over the city in September–October 1870.\n\nFavre argued that an armistice would allow the French to hold elections to an assembly that would have political legitimacy. Bismarck agreed, but refused to sign an armistice for such elections unless certain Parisian forts were surrendered in compensation for the advantage France would gain in time. Finally, Favre offered to surrender Strasbourg if its defenders received the honours of war. Bismarck demanded they become prisoners of war and discussion broke off. Before leaving Bismarck, Favre wept. On 20 September Favre reported his results to the cabinet, and Bismarck's terms were rejected completely. On 24 September the government indefinitely postponed local and national elections. In the words of Léon Gambetta, \"We could not have elections without an armistice, and the effect of an armistice would be to relax the efforts of the defence.\"\n\nOn 1 October two neutral American officers, General Ambrose Burnside and Colonel Paul Forbes, were granted permission by the Germans to visit Paris as observers. When they returned they reported to the Germans the French conditions for an armistice: that it last two weeks, that elections be held, that Paris be revictualled and that no territory be ceded—although Favre had apparently come to accept the loss of Alsace. The American effort had no effect but to clarify to each side what was unacceptable to the other: the revictualling of Paris to the Germans and territorial concessions to the French.\n\nAfter the failure of the first effort at an armistice, the Government of National Defence sent Louis Adolphe Thiers on a diplomatic mission to the capitals of neutral Europe. At London Lord Granville offered to help negotiate an armistice, which offer was never taken up. When Thiers was granted a safe conduct through the German siege lines around Paris, he briefly met Bismarck, only to tell him that he was unauthorised to speak to the enemy. Bismarck told him that Metz had surrendered. When Thiers reported the results of his mission to the cabinet that evening, they agreed that an armistice was needed. Thiers volunteered to negotiate it, and was duly deputised. He was given two conditions that any armistice should meet: it should allow for free elections (including in France's occupied territories) to be held and it should allow the provisioning of Paris. On the morning of 31 October, the \"Journal officiel\" carried the first public notice that an armistice may be sought.\n\nThiers arrived at Versailles on 31 October and negotiations began the next day (1 November). Thiers initially asked for a 28-day armistice with provisioning of Paris and all besieged cities. Bismarck refused and countered by asking for one of the Parisian forts to balance the military advantages France would accrue from a ceasefire. Thiers rejected the surrender of any fortress. He later claimed that Bismarck had been amenable to French demands until news of the popular uprising in Paris had reached him. This uprising—accompanied by shouts of \"Pas d'armistice!\" (No armistice!)—had been a response to rumours of Thiers's negotiations. According to Thiers it caused Bismarck to increase his demands, but Lord Lyons believed that the chancellor was merely looking for an excuse to break off talks.\n\nHaving failed to reach an agreement on armistice terms, Thiers tried to uncover the Germans' intentions for the peace treaty. Bismarck threatened that the terms for peace would get harsher the longer the war lasted. As of 5 November, he was demanding Alsace with Strasbourg, part of Lorraine not including Metz and an indemnity of 4,000,000,000 francs. On that date, on the Pont de Sèvres, between the German and French lines, Thiers met Favre and counselled acceptance of Bismarck's terms. He offered to take \"the responsibility and odium of signing a treaty\", according to a letter of Lord Lyons, but Favre would not agree. On 6 November Thiers was back at Versailles when Favre ordered him to break off negotiations and go to Tours. He was escorted to the French lines by German soldiers and from there took a train to Tours. He arrived sitting atop a heap of coal.\n\nThere was no effort to end the war by diplomatic means between 6 November 1870 and 23 January 1871. During that period Favre and Ernest Picard were the only voices in the government advocating a capitulation or a \"sortie torrentielle\", a major military undertaking. By 27 December, when howitzers had begun to strike the Parisian fortresses, the city was facing famine and loss of morale. On 5 January the residential areas of the city fell under bombardment. The last gasp of French military resistance came at the battle of Buzenval on 19 January. They were defeated. On 20 January Trochu asked for a local armistice to bury the dead, but Bismarck refused. The French president resigned, and on 22 January when a council of war proposed a second mass sortie, there was no officer willing to lead it.\n\nOn 23 January, Favre was empowered by the cabinet to seek a general armistice, as opposed to the armistice limited to Paris that Trochu favoured. Such a local ceasefire, Favre argued, would only give the Germans the freedom to concentrate their military power on the provincial armies. Favre was not empowered to negotiate a treaty, since that was supposed to only follow elections to a national assembly. He was to permit the disarming of regular soldiers, but not of the National Guard, whose disarming was either feared lest it result in a popular uprising or promoted lest the Guard initiate an uprising. He was not to concede the Germans entry into Paris. He arrived at Versailles under a safe conduct later that evening.\n\nFavre admitted to the Germans that Paris was starving, and at Bismarck's request he wrote down an outline of an armistice, including in it the cession of one of the Parisian forts, which would effectively end the siege of Paris in Germany's favour. Bismarck agreed not to enter Paris and to allow the defenders to remain in the city; he would permit a free election and allow the Guard and one regular division to remain armed. The disarming of the rest made it impossible later on for the government to suppress the Paris Commune, whose uprising was possible because the Guard retained its arms.\n\nOn 24 January Bismarck agreed to abandon his other negotiations—with the exiled Empress Eugénie and her representative, Clément Duvernois—and on 25 January the government authorised Favre to sign an armistice for three weeks. On 26 January Bismarck graciously offered to cease the bombardment of Paris and Favre accepted. A general Parisian ceasefire was agreed for midnight (27 January) and commanders on both sides were given advanced notice. \"A few stray shots were fired after the deadline\", the armistice was \"de facto\" in effect from that moment. The oral accord in effect from this time mandated that:\nThese terms were to be in effect until 19 February. Owing to a lack of information about operations in the departments of Jura, Doubs and Côte-d'Or, these areas were exempted from the general armistice terms in order to preserve the fortified region of Belfort, then under siege. The primary source for the extent of the agreement reached on the date of the ceasefire is the diary of the future German emperor Frederick III, based on his contacts with Bismarck.\n\nIn Paris Favre requested an officer to help him negotiate the technical articles of the formal armistice. He and General Charles de Beaufort d'Hautpoul returned to Versailles on 27 January, but, according to German accounts, the latter got drunk at the dinner celebration and Favre had to get a postponement of the final negotiations to the next day (28 January). On this second try a more competent officer, Charles Horix de Valdan, chief of staff to the commander of Paris, Joseph Vinoy, was sent along. Lacking sources of information on the disposition of his own troops at the time, Valdan relied on that supplied by von Moltke in demarcating the lines of control of the two sides. Both sides were to withdraw ten miles from the lines of control and the area between the German siege works and the disarmed Parisian forts was to be neutral. When Valdan had completed the technical military matters, Favre and Bismarck signed the final document on 28 January 1871. It immediately came into effect in Paris, and on 31 January in the other pertinent areas.\n\nThe Army of the East under General Justin Clinchant, still operating in Jura, Doubs and Côte-d'Or, was not informed that the armistice did not apply to its area. Favre had neglected to inform the government in Bordeaux. It mistakenly halted and was surrounded by the better-informed German troops of the Army of the South under General Edwin von Manteuffel. On 31 January, having already negotiated safe passage for wounded soldiers into Switzerland and having received from his government confirmation that no armistice for his zone would be forthcoming, Clinchant signed a convention with the Swiss at the border post of Les Verrières, allowing his army to retreat across the frontier. On 1 February the whole road from Pontarlier to the border was filled with retreating toops, and the last skirmish of the war was fought at La Cluse by men of the reserve, who held off the Germans before joining their comrades in Switzerland.\n\nOn 2 February news reached Versailles that on 27 January the Delegation of the Government of National Defence at Bordeaux had publicly proclaimed that \"[w]e cannot believe that negotiations of this kind could have been undertaken without the Delegation being previously notified.\" The late arrival of this news had no effect on the armistice, and in the interim the Delegation had obeyed the order from Versailles to publish the armistice, inform the provincial armies and begin preparations for a general election. Nonetheless, when Jules Simon, representing the government, met the Delegation in Bordeaux on 31 January, he ordered removed the placards that read:\n\nLet us make use of the Armistice as a school for instruction for our young troops. . . In place of the reactionary and cowardly Assembly of which the enemy dreams, let us install an Assembly that is truly national and republican, desiring peace, if peace assures our honour ... but capable of willing war also, ready for anything rather than lend a hand in the murder of France.\n\nOn 6 February the leader of the Delegation, Gambetta, resigned. On 8 February the promised elections to the National Assembly took place. The body met in Bordeaux on 12 February. It had a monarchist majority and a mandate for peace. On 15 February the fort of Belfort under Colonel Pierre Philippe Denfert-Rochereau was finally incorporated into the armistice. Its defenders marched out with the honours of war on 18 February. On 19 February the members of the National Assembly swore the \"Pact of Bordeaux\", a truce between the parties until the Third Republic was established.\n\nThe armistice remained in effect even after the preliminary treaty of 26 February. Either was permitted to denounce it any day after 3 March, and to renew the fighting three days after that. On 1 March the Germans began their occupation of Paris. On 3 March they began to pull their troops out, yet riots erupted in Paris as the German troops marched out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13020544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13020544", "title": "Arthur Cheney Train", "text": "Arthur Cheney Train\n\nArthur Cheney Train (September 6, 1875 – December 22, 1945), also called Arthur Chesney Train, was an American lawyer and writer of legal thrillers, particularly known for his novels of courtroom intrigue and the creation of the fictional lawyer Mr. Ephraim Tutt.\n\nTrain was born in Boston, Massachusetts on September 6, 1875. His father was lawyer Charles Russell Train, who served for many years as attorney general of Massachusetts, and his mother was Sara Maria Cheney.\n\nAfter attending St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, Train graduated with a BA from Harvard University in 1896 and LLB from Harvard Law School in 1899.\n\nIn January 1901, Train became assistant in the office of the New York County District Attorney. In 1904 he started his literary career with the publication of the short story \"The Maximilian Diamond\" in \"Leslie's Monthly\". He ran the two careers in parallel until 1908 when he left the District Attorney's office to open a general law practice in the Mutual Life Building at 34 Nassau Street in New York City. His 1907 novel, \"Mortmain\", was one of the earliest works in the alien hand syndrome genre and was adapted into a 1915 film of the same name that is now lost. Several other works by Train were filmed, including \"Illusion\" (1929), \"His Children's Children\" (1923), and \"The Blind Goddess\" (1926).\n\nFrom 1915 to 1922, Train was in private practice as a lawyer with Charles Albert Perkins while continuing to write, not just novels but short stories, plays, and journalism. In 1919, he created the popular character of Mr. Ephraim Tutt, a wily old lawyer who supported the common man and always had a trick up his sleeve to right the law's injustices.\n\nTrain wrote dozens of stories about Tutt in the \"Saturday Evening Post\". The fictional Ephraim Tutt became \"the best known lawyer in America,\" particularly after the appearance of \"Yankee Lawyer,\" an immensely popular book that purported to be Tutt's autobiography. Train also coauthored two science fiction novels with eminent physicist Robert W. Wood. After 1922, he devoted himself to writing.\n\nIn 1897, Train married Ethel Kissam (1876–1923). Ethel was the daughter of Benjamin Kissam and Lucy (née Warren) Kissam, the niece of Maria (née Kissam) Vanderbilt and the first cousin of William, Cornelius, Margaret, Emily, Florence, Frederick, Eliza, and George Washington Vanderbilt II. Together, they had four children, including Arthur Kissam Train.\n\nEthel died in 1923 and Train married Helen Coster Gerard in 1926, with whom he had one child John Train.\n\nTrain died on December 22, 1945 in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10556401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10556401", "title": "Assessor (law)", "text": "Assessor (law)\n\nIn some jurisdictions, an assessor is a judge's or magistrate's assistant. This is the historical meaning of this word.\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, assessors are usually non-lawyers who sit together with a judge to provide either expert advice (such as on maritime matters) or guidance on local practices. The use of assessors nowadays is quite rare. In some jurisdictions, such as Fiji, assessors are used in place of juries. An assessor's opinion or view of a case is not binding on a judge.\n\nThe term \"assessor\" is also very generally applied to persons appointed to ascertain and fix the value of rates, taxes, &c., and in this sense the word is used in the United States (see Assessor (property)).\n\nIn France and in all European countries where the civil law system prevails, the term \"assesseur\" is applied to those assistant judges who, with a president, compose a judicial court.\n\nIn Denmark, it was the former title given to Supreme Court judges. Today the title is given to Deputy Judges. See Courts of Denmark.\n\nIn Germany, \"Rechtsassessor\" (\"assessor of law\") is a title held by graduates of law who have passed both the first and the second of the two state exams (finishing law school and a two-year legal clerkship) qualifying for a career in a legal profession such as judge or prosecutor, attorney at law or civil-law notary.\n\nIn Italy, an assessor (in Italian: \"assessore\") is a member of a \"Giunta\", the executive body in all levels of local government: regions, provinces and communes.\n\nIn Norway, the title was used for any judge before 1927.\n\nIn Sweden, a judge who has been a district court clerk for two years, an appeal court clerk for at least one year, a deputy district judge for at least two years and a deputy appeal court judge for one year gets, if he or she is approved, the title assessor. Hovrättsassessor = assessor of the civil and criminal appeal court. Kammarrättsassessor = assessor of the administrative appeal court. Having the degree of assessor is the most common way of getting a constitutionally protected position as a judge (ordinarie domare), but increasingly advocates, prosecutors and doctors of law are also appointed to these positions.\n\nIn the former Soviet Union and modern People's Republic of China, a judge presiding at trial is assisted by two \"people's assessors\" drawn much like jurors from citizens in the community. They do not rule on matters of law but can allow or deny objections. When the trial is completed the judge and people's assessors decide on a verdict.\n\nIn the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, assessors were also members of the judiciary, sitting on the so-called kanclerz's courts or assessor's courts.\n\nSerious criminal trials are conducted by a judge sitting with four lay assessors.\n\nS.53 of the High Court Ordinance provides that a judge in the Court of First Instance may sit with one or more assessor who holds special qualifications. It is not normal practice for the court to sit with assessors.\n\nIn serious criminal cases (such as murder) appearing before the High Court, two assessors may be appointed to assist the judge. Assessors are usually advocates or retired magistrates. They sit with the judge during the court case and listen to all the evidence presented to the court. At the end of the court case they give the judge their opinion. The judge does not have to listen to the assessors' opinions but it usually helps the judge to make a decision. The assessors may also only make decisions on facts, not on the law, which is solely the authority of the judge.\n\n"}
{"id": "31883468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31883468", "title": "Block Exemption Regulation", "text": "Block Exemption Regulation\n\nThe Block Exemption Regulation is an exemption in a business line or industry, which debars organizations in the industry from some business activities in order to create competition. The regulation is highly known in the automobile industry due to the effect caused by the Block Exemption Regulation (BER) from the European Commission. BER has changed the automobile industry in the last decade. Prior to 2003 automobile owners in the EU region risk nullifying their vehicle warranty when the vehicles were serviced or repaired in workshops not belonging to the vehicle manufacturer or its dealers. This barrier was broken in October 2003, when the European Commission (EC) passed a law allowing vehicle owners the freedom of having their servicing and repairs done at their chosen workshop. \n\nAccording to the UK Department of Business Education & Skills, the empowerment created by this law provides competition in the automobile industry as vehicle owners now have the opportunity to repair and service their vehicle at alternative workshops to the automobile manufacturers. BER provides automobile users the flexibility and benefit to reduce the amount spent on servicing, thereby providing consumers more choice and better value for money.\n\nThe block exemption regulations are updated regularly to create competition among the Member State of the European Union. According to a White Paper by Dr.Jai Ganesh, Dr. Srinivas Padmanabhuni and Anandhi r, \"Changes to the block exemption regulations (BER) are meant to increase competitiveness in the automobile retail industry in Europe\"\n\nIn October 2002 a BER was passed into law and it came fully into effect in October 2003. The regulation was passed into law because the preceding law did not cover adequately some key point. The October 2002 BER focused on new automobile sales, after-sales and distribution. The preceding BER did not cover the following points adequately:\n\nThe AIRC, Association International des Reparateurs en Carrosserie, made clear that the after sales market needed a satisfactory framework that would not threaten consumers’ freedom,insurance companies freedom, fleet owners freedom and leasing companies freedom to have their\nvehicles repaired in the workshop of their choice. ( AIRC General Secretary Karel Bukholczer, see source http://ec.europa.eu/competition/consultations/2010_motor_vehicles/airc_en.pdf )\n\nRecently, in May 2010 a new law has passed by the European Commission Competition legislatives and it came into effect from June 1, 2010.\n\nSeveral countries in the EU region responded to the EC block exemption regulations with strategies to enforce them, making competition better among automobile dealers and manufacturers in their countries. An example of this is the ‘Car Notice’ passed by the Swiss Competition Commission in 2002.\n\nA transition period was provided by the European Commission extends the previous 2002 for three years, till 2013. During this three years only the sales of new cars are affected by the new BER passed by the EC which came into effect on 1 June 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57837583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57837583", "title": "Chief Public Prosecutor (BES Islands)", "text": "Chief Public Prosecutor (BES Islands)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Security of the Netherlands oversees the heads the Public Prosecution Service. The Public Prosecutor typically leads the investigation in a criminal matter, and the Public Prosecution Service ensures that the sentence given by the judges are properly executed. In addition. the service monitors any fines and penalties, the imprisonment process, and any required community service. \n\nIn turn, the Public Prosecution Service BES is responsible for the criminal enforcement of the legal order on Bonaire, Saba, and Sint Eustatius. Each island has an independent Public Prosecution's Office that contains a Public Prosecutor—all of whom are under the leadership of a Chief Prosecutor. \n\nThe Public Prosecution Service overall works in tandem with a joint Attorney General and Advocate General.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7267151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7267151", "title": "Collections of ancient canons", "text": "Collections of ancient canons\n\nCollections of ancient canons contain collected bodies of canon law that originated in various documents, such as papal and synodal decisions, and that can be designated by the generic term of canons.\n\nCanon law was not a finished product from the beginning, but rather a gradual growth. This is especially true of the earlier Christian centuries. Such written laws as existed were not originally universal laws, but local or provincial statutes. Hence arose the necessity of collecting or codifying them. Earlier collections are brief and contain few laws that are chronologically certain. Only with the increase of legislation did a methodical classification become necessary.\n\nThese collections may be genuine (e. g. the \"Versio Hispanica\"), or apocryphal, i.e. made with the help of documents forged, interpolated, wrongly attributed or otherwise defective (e. g. the Pseudo-Isidore collection). They may be official and authentic (i.e. promulgated by competent authority) or private, the work of individuals. The forged collections of the middle of the ninth century are treated in the article on False Decretals.\n\nIn the primitive Christian ages there were apocryphal collections attributed to the Apostles, which belong to the \"genre\" of the Church Orders. The most important of these are the Doctrine of the Twelve Apostles, the Apostolic Constitutions, and the Apostolic Canons.\n\nThe Apostolic Constitutions, though originally accepted throughout the Orient, were declared apocryphal in the Trullan Council of 692; they were never accepted as ecclesiastical law in the West. The Apostolic Canons (eighty-five) were, on the other hand, approved by the Trullan Council.\n\nDionysius Exiguus, a Western canonist of the first half of the sixth century, noted that \"many accept with difficulty the so-called canons of the Apostles\". Nevertheless, he admitted into his collection the first fifty of these canons. The so-called \"Decretum Gelasianum\", \"de libris non recipiendis\" (about the sixth century), puts them among the apocrypha.\n\nFrom the collection of Dionysius Exiguus they passed into many Western collections, though their authority was never on one level. They were admitted at Rome in the ninth century in ecclesiastical decisions but in the eleventh century Cardinal Humbert accepts only the first fifty. Only two of them (20, 29) found their way into the \"Decretals of Gregory IX\".\n\nIn primitive Christian centuries, the popes carried on ecclesiastical government by means of an active and extensive correspondence. We learn from a synod of the year 370, under Pope Damasus, that the minutes of their letters or decretals were kept in the papal archives; these Vatican Archives have perished up to the time of pope John VIII (died 882). In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries attempts were made to reconstruct them. During the period under discussion (i. e. to the middle of the eleventh century) there was a constant use of the papal decretals by the compilers of canonical collections from the sixth century on.\n\nIn 451 there was quoted at the Council of Chalcedon a collection of councils no longer extant, nor has the name of the compiler ever transpired. At the beginning of the collection were then placed the decrees of Nicæa (325); subsequently the canons of Antioch (341) were included, in which shape it was known to the Fathers of Chalcedon. In the latter part of the fifth century the canons of Laodicæa (343-81), Constantinople (381), Ephesus (431) and Chalcedon (451), were incorporated with this ecclesiastical code, and finally (after the canons of Neo-Cæsarea) the decrees of Sardica (343-44), in which form the collection was in use during the sixth century. Though unofficial in character, it represents (inclusive of sixty-eight canons taken from the \"Canonical Epistles\" of St. Basil, I, III) the conciliar discipline of the Greek Church between 500 and 600.\n\nThis collection was chronological in order. Towards 535 an unknown compiler classified its materials in a methodical way under sixty titles, and added to the canons twenty-one imperial constitutions relative to ecclesiastical matters taken from the Code of Justinian. This collection has been lost.\n\nSome years later (540-550) Johannes Scholasticus, Patriarch of Constantinople, made use of this code to compile a new methodical collection, which he divided into fifty books. After the emperor's death (565), the patriarch extracted from ten of the former's constitutions, known as \"Novellæ\", some eighty-seven chapters and added them to the aforesaid collection.\n\nIn this way arose the mixed collections known as Nomocanons (Greek \"nomoi\" \"laws\", \"kanones\" \"canons\"), containing not only ecclesiastical laws but also imperial laws pertaining to the same matters. The first of these was published under Emperor Maurice (582-602); under each title were given, after the canons, the corresponding civil laws.\n\nThe Quinisext Council (695) of Constantinople, called Trullan from the hall of the palace (\"in trullo\") where it was held, issued 102 disciplinary canons; it included also the canons of the former councils and certain patristic regulations, all of which it considered constitutive elements of the ecclesiastical law of the East. This collection contains, therefore, an official enumeration of the canons which then governed the Eastern Church, but no official approbation of a given collection or particular text of these canons. It is to be noted that the Apostolic See never fully approved this council. In 787 a similar recapitulation of the ancient canons was made by the Second Council of Nicæa.\n\nThe former council (325) was held in repute throughout the West, where its canons were in vigour together with those of Sardica, the complement of the anti-Arian legislation of Nicæa, and whose decrees had been drawn up originally in both Latin and Greek. The canons of the two councils were numbered in running order, as though they were the work of but one council (a trait met with in divers Latin collections), which explains why the Council of Sardica is sometimes called œcumenical by earlier writers, and its canons attributed to the Council of Nicæa. The oldest versions of these canons quoted in the papal decretals are no longer extant.\n\nTowards the middle of the fifth century, perhaps earlier, there appeared a Latin version of the aforesaid canons of Nicæa, Ancyra, Neo-Cæsarea and Gangra, to which were added a little later those of Antioch, Laodicæa and Constantinople; the canons of Sardica were inserted about the same time after those of Gangra. Bickell considers it possible that this version was made in Northern Africa, while Walter inclines to Spain; it is now generally believed that the version was made in Italy. It was long believed, however, that it came from Spain, hence the name of \"Hispana\" or \"Isidoriana\", the latter term derived from its insertion in the collection attributed to St. Isidore of Seville (see below, Spanish Collections), in which it was edited, of course according to the text followed by the Spanish compiler.\n\nThis too seems to have grown up gradually in the course of the fifth century, and in its present shape exhibits the aforementioned canons of Ancyra, Neo-Cæsarea, Nicæa, Sardica, Gangra, Antioch, Chalcedon and Constantinople. It came to be known as \"Itala\" from the place of its origin, and as \"Prisca\" because of an overhasty conclusion that Dionysius Exiguus referred to it in the preface of his first collection when he wrote: \"Laurentius offended by the confusion that reigned in the ancient version [priscœ versionis]\".\n\nAt the beginning of the sixth century there arose in Italy an extensive collection, based apparently on the \"Antiqua Isidoriana\" and the African collections, and which, besides the earliest Eastern and the African councils, includes papal decretals (especially Leonine), letters of Gallican bishops and other documents. Older scholarship, beginning with the Ballerinis, argued that the \"Quesnelliana\" was a Gallic collection, though one with an admittedly \"Roman colour\". More recent scholarship has argued for an Italian, possibly even Roman origin. Its name is derived from the Oratorian P. Quesnel, its first editor. With its focus on Chalcedon and the letters of Leo, the \"Quesnelliana\" is quite obviously meant as a manifesto against the Acacian schism, in which eastern Bishops led by Acacius, patriarch of Constantinople, challenged the decisions of the council of Chalcedon and the Christology set down in Pope Leo’s \"Tomus\". The compiler’s principal of selection thus seems to have been any and all documents that support doctrinal unity in general and Leonine Christology in particular. Of the large chronological canon collections to have come out of the early Middle Ages, the \"Quesnelliana\" is perhaps the oldest surviving collection and, after the \"Collectio Dionysiana\" and \"Collectio Hispana\", probably the most influential. It remained a popular work well into the ninth century, particularly in Francia. Most likely this was because of the numerous papal letters it contained that dealt with disciplinary matters that retained ecclesiastical importance throughout the Middle Ages. The Quesnelliana played a particularly important role in the spread of Leo’s letters in Western canonistic literature, and was notably instrumental in the compilations of pseudo-Isidore for just this reason. Manuscript evidence alone indicates that the Quesnelliana had a fairly wide dissemination in Gaul during the eighth and ninth centuries; though it had perhaps already found a welcome audience with Gallo-Frankish bishops in the sixth century, when it may have been used as a source (along with the \"Sanblasiana\") for the \"Collectio Colbertina\" and the \"Collectio Sancti Mauri\". By the mid-eighth century, the \"Quesnelliana\" had secured its place as an important lawbook within the Frankish episcopate, for whom it served as the primary source during the influential council of Verneuil in 755.\n\nFurther collections were called for by the increasing canonical material of the Latin West in the course of the fifth century. They were far from satisfactory.\n\nTowards 500 a Scythian monk, known as Dionysius Exiguus, who had come to Rome after the death of Pope Gelasius (496), and who was well skilled in both Latin and Greek, undertook to bring out a more exact translation of the canons of the Greek councils. In a second effort he collected papal decretals from Siricius (384-89) to Anastasius II (496-98), inclusive, anterior therefore, to Pope Symmachus (514-23). By order of Pope Hormisdas (514-23), Dionysius made a third collection, in which he included the original text of all the canons of the Greek councils, together with a Latin version of the same; but the preface alone has survived. Finally, he combined the first and second in one collection, which thus united the canons of the councils and the papal decretals; it is in this shape that the work of Dionysius has reached us. This collection opens with a table or list of titles, each of which is afterwards repeated before the respective canons; then come the first fifty canons of the Apostles, the canons of the Greek councils, the canons of Carthage (419), and the canons of preceding African synods under Aurelius, which had been read and inserted in the Council of Carthage. This first part of the collection is closed by a letter of Pope Boniface I, read at the same council, letters of Cyril of Alexandria and Atticus of Constantinople to the African Fathers, and a letter of Pope Celestine I. The second part of the collection opens likewise with a preface, in the shape of a letter to the priest Julian, and a table of titles; then follow one decretal of Siricius, twenty-one of Innocent I, one of Zozimus, four of Boniface I, three of Celestine I, seven of pope Leo I, one of Gelasius I and one of Anastasius II. The additions met with in Voel and Justel are taken from inferior manuscripts.\n\nIt is so called because its oldest known manuscript was bought for the abbey of Santa Croce Avellana by St. Peter Damian (died 1073), probably dates from the middle of the sixth century. It follows neither chronological nor logical order, and seems to have grown to its present shape according as the compiler met with the materials that he has transmitted to us. Nevertheless, Girolamo Ballerini and Pietro Ballerini pronounce it a valuable collection because of the great number of early canonical documents (nearly 200) that are found in no other collection.\n\nAll its texts are authentic, save eight letters from divers persons to Peter, Bishop of Antioch. The best edition is Otto Günther: \"Epistvlae imperatorvm pontificvm aliorvm inde ab a. CCCLXVII vsqve ad a. DLIII datae Avellana qvae dicitvr collectio.\" Corpus scriptorum ecclesiasticorum latinorum, vol. 35. Vindobonae: F. Tempsky, 1895.\n\nDespite the popularity of Dionysius Exiguus, which caused the previous compilations to be disused, several of them were preserved, as also were some other contemporary collections. Suffice it to mention the collection known as the \"Chieti\" or \"Vaticana Reginæ\", through which a very old and distinct version of the decrees of the Council of Nicæa has reached us.\n\nFrom the Eastern Church Northern Africa received only the decrees of Nicæa (325), which it owed to Cæcilianus of Carthage, one of the Nicene Fathers. The African Church created its domestic code of discipline in its own councils. It was customary to read and confirm in each council the canons of preceding councils, in which way there grew up collections of conciliar decrees, but purely local in authority. Their moral authority, however, was great, and from the Latin collections they eventually made their way into the Greek collections. The best-known are: (a) the Canons of the Council of Carthage (August, 397) which confirmed the \"Breviarium\" of the canons of Hippo (393), one of the chief sources of African ecclesiastical discipline; (b) the Canons of the Council of Carthage (419), at which were present 217 bishops and among whose decrees were inserted 105 canons of previous councils.\n\nIn the second part of the \"Hispana\" (see below) and in other collections are found, together with other African councils, 104 canons which the compiler of the \"Hispana\" attributes to a Pseudo-Fourth Council of Carthage of 398. These canons are often known as \"Statuta Ecclesiæ Antiqua\", and in some manuscripts are entitled \"Statuta antiqua Orientis\".\n\nHefele maintains that in spite of their erroneous attribution, these canons are authentic, or at least summaries of authentic canons of ancient African councils, and collected in their present shape before the end of the sixth century. On the other hand, Maassen, Louis Duchesne, and Arthur Malnory believe them a compilation made at Arles in the first part of the sixth century; Malnory specifies Caesarius of Arles as their author.\n\nCompiled c. 546 by Fulgentius Ferrandus, it is a methodical collection and under its seven titles disposes 230 abridged canons of Greek (\"Hispana\" text) and African councils. Fulgentius was a deacon of Carthage and disciple of St. Fulgentius of Ruspe.\n\nCresconius Africanus, apparently a bishop, compiled his collection about 690. It is based on that of Dionysius Exiguus; only, in place of reproducing in full each canon, it cuts it up to suit the demands of the titles used; hence its name of \"Concordia\". Between the preface and the text of the collection the writer inserted a resume of his work.\n\nThese comprise the collections that arose in the lands once under Visigothic rule — Spain, Portugal, and Southern Gaul. In this territory councils were very frequent, especially after the conversion of King Reccared (587), and they paid much attention to ecclesiastical discipline.\n\nSuch collections contain, besides the decrees of Spanish synods, the canons also of Nicæa and Sardica (accepted in the Spanish Church from the beginning), those of the Greek councils known through the \"Itala\", and those of the Gallican and African Councils, quite influential in the formation of Spanish ecclesiastical discipline. Three of these collections are important.\n\nIt is divided into two parts, one dealing with the bishop and his clergy, the other relative to the laity; in both the author classifies methodically the canons of the councils in eighty-four chapters. He says himself in the preface that he does not pretend to reproduce the text literally, but with set purpose breaks up, abridges, or glosses the same, in order to make it more intelligible to \"simple people\"; possibly he has occasionally modified it to suit the Spanish discipline of his time. Though much has been borrowed from Latin, Gallican and African Councils, the Greek Councils furnish the greater part of the canons. The \"Capitula\" were read and approved at the Second Council of Braga in 572. Some writers, misled by the name, attributed them to Pope Martin I; they are in reality the work of Martin of Pannonia, better known as Martin of Braga, of which place he was archbishop in the sixth century. Their text was incorporated with the \"Isidoriana\", from which they were taken and edited apart by Merlin and by Gaspar Loaisa, and in the first volume of the oft-quoted work by Voel and Justel, after collation of the variants in the best manuscripts.\n\nThis is the name of the collection edited by the Ballerini from two manuscripts (Verona and Lucca). It has two parts: one includes the canons of Greek, African, Gallican and Spanish councils; the other divers papal decretals from Siricius to Pope Vigilius (384-555), with two apocryphal texts of St. Clement and an extract from St. Jerome. The compiler designedly abridged his texts, and mentions only three sources, a Braga collection (the \"Capitula Martini\", his first chapter being a resume of that work), an Alcalá (\"Complutum\") collection, and one of Cabra (Agrabensis). Though characterized by lack of order and exactness, the \"Epitome\" interests us because of the antiquity of its sources. Maassen thinks it connected with the \"Codex Canonum\", the nucleus of the group of collections whence eventually issued the \"Hispana\", and of which we shall treat apropos of the latter.\n\nThis must not be confused with the above-described \"Versio Hispanica\" or \"Isidoriana\", among the earlier Latin collections, and which contained only canons of Greek councils.\n\nThe collection in question, like that of Dionysius Exiguus on which it is based, contains two parts: the first includes canons of Greek, African, Gallican and Spanish councils, with some letters of St. Cyril of Alexandria and Atticus of Constantinople, while the second has the papal decretals as found in Dionysius, together with some others, most of the latter addressed to Spanish bishops. This is the chronological \"Hispana\". Somewhat later, towards the end of the seventh century, it was recast in logical order, by some unknown writer, and divided into ten books, which were again subdivided into titles and chapters. This is the methodical \"Hispana\". Finally, the copyists were wont to place at the beginning of the chronological \"Hispana\" a table of contents of the methodical collection, but with references to the text of the chronological: in this shape it was known as the \"Excerpta Canonum\". The chronological \"Hispana\" seems to have been originally the \"Codex Canonum\" mentioned at the Fourth Council of Toledo (633), with later additions. In the ninth century it was attributed, with insufficient evidence, to St. Isidore of Seville.\n\nIn spite of this erroneous attribution, the \"Hispana\" contains very few documents of doubtful authenticity. Later on, additions were made to it, the latest being taken from the seventeenth council of Toledo (694). In this enlarged form, i. e. the \"Codex Canonum\", the \"Hispana\" was approved by Pope Alexander III as authentic.\n\nUntil the thirteenth century, its authority was great in Spain. Pseudo-Isidore made a generous use of its materials.\n\nThe \"Codex Carolinus\" is a collection of papal decretals addressed to the Frankish rulers Charles Martel, Pippin the Younger and Charlemagne, compiled by the latter's order in 791 (\"Patrologia Latina\" XCVIII), not to be confounded with the \"Libri Carolini\" in which were set forth for Pope Adrian I various points concerning the veneration of images.\n\nMichael Elliot has characterized the history of canon law collections in Anglo-Saxon England as follows:\n[B]oth the dissemination of canon law collections within the Anglo-Saxon church and the study of canon law collections by Anglo-Saxon clergy were considerable indeed; even if they were not as popular as in some Continental churches, canon law collections served the Anglo-Saxon church as indispensable disciplinary, educational and administrative tools. Beginning in the seventh and eighth centuries, and fuelled by the early Anglo-Saxon church’s strong ties to Roman models, one sees in England the considerable influence of Italian canon law collections, most notably the \"collectiones Dionysiana\", \"Sanblasiana\" and \"Quesnelliana\". It was particularly at York and especially at Canterbury under the guidance of Archbishop Theodore that instruction in and study of these collections appears to have been carried out with the most fervour. In the eighth century, imbued with the legal teachings of these collections, reform-minded Anglo-Saxon personnel descended on the Low Countries and the lands east of the Rhine, bringing with them the institutional framework and disciplinary models they had inherited from their Roman and Celtic mentors. These included the collections already mentioned and also copies of the Collectio Hibernensis and several different types of penitential handbooks. It was also during this time that an important redaction of the Collectio vetus Gallica was disseminated on the Continent, due in part to the activities of Anglo-Saxon personnel. This acme of Anglo-Saxon canonical scholarship―exemplified from the seventh to late eighth century by such figures as Wilfrid, Ecgberht, Boniface, and Alcuin―seems to have ended sometime in the ninth century, probably as a result of the devastation of the Viking raids, which inflicted heavy losses upon England’s material and intellectual culture. In England, interest in and the manuscript resources necessary to carry out the study of Continental canonical sources would never again under the Anglo-Saxons reach the level they had attained in the first two hundred years of the English church's existence. Following the eighth century, the Anglo-Saxon church seems to have developed an increasingly strong tradition of operating juridically within the pre-existing secular legal framework. In this tradition―which lasted from at least the end of the ninth century until the Conquest and beyond―the legal and disciplinary spirit of the English church stood close to and drew support from the emerging strength of West Saxon kingship. Consequently, for the duration of the Anglo-Saxon period Continental canon law collections played a correspondingly smaller role in influencing the law and discipline of the church and its members. But they never became obsolete, and indeed an upsurge of interest in these collections can be seen taking place in the tenth and early eleventh centuries. New genres of canonical literature had been gaining in popularity on the Continent since the early ninth century. Most important among these, as far as Anglo-Saxon history is concerned, were the large penitential and canonico-penitential collections of the Carolingian period. A number of these collections crossed the Channel into England during the tenth century and were well received by the Anglo-Saxon episcopacy. By the beginning of the eleventh century, especially with the activities of Abbot Ælfric and Archbishop Wulfstan, study of canon law collections had once again attained a degree of sophistication in England. Nevertheless, despite England’s increasingly tight connections to the ecclesiastical traditions of the Continent―where the study of canon law thrived in the eleventh century―there are few signs that Ælfric’s and Wulfstan’s achievements in canonical scholarship were continued by their Anglo-Saxon successors in any significant way. Following the Conquest England saw the introduction of Norman libraries and personnel into England, a development that marks a very real terminus to the history of the Anglo-Saxon canonical tradition. The new ecclesiastical reforms and drastically different canonical preoccupations of Archbishop Lanfranc put the study of canon law in England upon entirely new foundations. With the accumulation of new texts and collections, and with the development of new scientific principles for their interpretation, ground was laid for Anglo-Norman England’s contribution to the monumental canonical reforms of the twelfth century―reforms in which the by now long outmoded Anglo-Saxon canonical tradition played (almost) no part.\nThe most celebrated of the Celtic canonical productions is the \"Collectio Hibernensis\", of the early part of the eighth century, whose compiler put together previous ecclesiastical legislation in sixty-four to sixty-nine chapters, preceded by extracts from the \"Etymologiæ\" of St. Isidore of Seville concerning synodal regulations. The preface states that for the sake of brevity and clearness and to reconcile certain juridical antinomies, effort is made to render the sense of the canons rather than their letter. It is a methodical collection to the extent that the matters treated are placed in their respective chapters, but there is much confusion in the distribution of the latter. In spite of its defects, this collection made its way into France and Italy and until the twelfth century influenced the ecclesiastical legislation of churches in both countries (Paul Fournier, De l'influence de la collection irlandaise sur les collections canoniques).\n\nApart from the above-described general collections there are some special or particular collections that deserve brief mention. \n\nThe civil law as such has no standing in the canonical forum but in her first centuries of existence the Church often rounded out her canonical legislation by adopting certain provisions of the secular laws. Moreover, either by mutual agreement, as under the Carolingian kings, or by the civil power's usurpation of ecclesiastical domain, as frequently happened under the Byzantine emperors, the civil authority legislated on matters in themselves purely canonical; such laws it behooved an ecclesiastic to know. Moreover, the priest often needs some acquaintance with the pertinent civil law in order to decide properly even in purely secular matters that are occasionally submitted to him. Hence the utility of collections of civil laws concerning ecclesiastical matters or the administration of the canonical laws (\"praxis canonica\"). We have already noted in the East the collections known as \"Nomocanones\"; the West also had mixed collections of the same nature. \n\nThis rapid sketch exhibits the vitality of the Church from the earliest centuries, and her constant activity for the preservation of ecclesiastical discipline. During this long elaboration the Greek Church unifies her legislation, but accepts little from beyond her own boundaries. On the other hand, the Western Church, with perhaps the sole exception of Africa, makes progress in the development of local discipline and exhibits an anxiety to harmonize particular legislation with the decretals of the popes, the canons of general councils, and the special legislation of the rest of the Church. Doubtless in the above-described collection of canons, the result of this long disciplinary development, we meet with forged decrees of councils and decretals of popes, even with forged collections, e. g. the collections of pseudo-Apostolic legislation. Nevertheless, the influence of these apocryphal works on other canonical collections was restricted. The latter were, almost universally, made up of authentic documents. Canonical science in the future would have been nourished exclusively from legitimate sources had not a larger number of forged documents appeared about the middle of the ninth century (Capitula of Benedict Levita, Capitula Angilramni, Canons of Isaac of Langres, above all the collection of Pseudo-Isidore. See False Decretals). But ecclesiastical vigilance did not cease; in the West especially, the Church kept up an energetic protest against the decay of her discipline; witness the many councils, diocesan synods and mixed assemblies of bishops and civil officials, also the numerous (over forty) new canonical collections from the ninth to the beginning of the twelfth century and whose methodical order foreshadows the great juridical syntheses of later centuries. Being compiled, however, for the most part not directly from the original canonical sources, but from immediately preceding collections, which in turn often depend on apocryphal productions of the ninth century, they appear tainted to the extent in which they make use of these forgeries. Such taint, however, affects the critical value of these collections rather than the legitimacy of the legislation which they exhibit. While the \"False Decretals\" affected certainly ecclesiastical discipline, it is now generally recognized that they did not introduce any essential or constitutional modifications. They gave a more explicit formulation to certain principles of the constitution of the Church, or brought more frequently into practice certain rules hitherto less recognized in daily use. As to the substance of this long development of disciplinary legislation, we may recognize with Paul Fournier a double current. The German collections, while not failing to admit the rights of the papal primacy, are seemingly concerned with the adaptation of the canons to actual needs of time and place; this is particularly visible in the collection of Burchard of Worms. The Italian collections, on the other hand, insist more on the rights of the papal primacy, and in general of the spiritual power. M. Fournier indicates, as especially influential in this sense, the Collection in Seventy-four Titles. Both tendencies meet and unite in the works of Yvo of Chartres. The compilations of this epoch may, therefore, be classed in these two broad categories. We do not, however, insist too strongly on these views, as yet somewhat provisory, and proceed to describe the principal collections of the next period, following, as a rule, the chronological order.\n\nIn these two centuries the ecclesiastical authorities were quite active in their efforts to withstand the decay of Christian discipline; the evidence of this is seen in the frequency of councils, mixed assemblies of bishops and imperial officials and diocesan synods whose decrees (capitularies) were often published by the bishops. In this period many new collections of canons were made, some forty of which, as already said, are known to us.\n\nIts twelve books treat hierarchy, judgments, ecclesiastical persons, spiritual things (rules of faith, precepts, sacraments, liturgies) and persons separated from the Church. Its sources are the \"Dionysiana\", the \"Hispana\", the correspondence (Registrum) of Gregory I and various collections of civil laws. Unfortunately it has also drawn on Pseudo-Isidore.\n\nIt is dedicated to Anselm, doubtless Anselm II of Milan (833-97), and is held to have been compiled in Italy towards the end of the ninth century. It is certainly anterior to Burchard of Worms (1012–23), whose work depends on this collection. The author is unknown.\n\nRegino of Prüm's work is entitled \"De ecclesiasticis disciplinis et religione Christianâ\" (on the discipline of the Church and the Christian religion). According to the preface it was put together by order of Ratbod, metropolitan of Trier, as a manual for episcopal use in the course of diocesan visitations.\n\nIts two books treat of the clergy and ecclesiastical property viz. of the laity.\nEach book begins with a list (\"elenchus\") of questions that indicate the points of chief importance in the eyes of the bishop. After this catechism, it adds the canons and ecclesiastical authorities relative to each question.\n\nThe collection was made about 906 and seems to depend on an earlier one edited by Richter entitled \"Antiqua Canonum collectio qua in libris de synodalibus causis compilandis usus est Regino Prumiensis\" (Marburg, 1844).\n\nAbbo, Abbot of Fleury (died 1004), dedicated to Hugues Capet and his son Robert Capet a collection in fifty-six chapters.\n\nIt deals with the clergy, ecclesiastical property, monks and their relations with the bishops. Besides the canons and papal decretals, Abbo made use of the Capitularies, the Roman civil law, and the laws of the Visigoths; his collection is peculiar in that he enclosed within his own context the texts quoted by him.\n\nThis collection in twenty books, often called \"Brocardus\", was compiled by Burchard, an ecclesiastic of Mainz, later Bishop of Worms (1002–25), at the suggestion of Brunicho, provost of Worms, and with the aid of Walter, Bishop of Speyer, and the monk Albert. Burchard follows quite closely the following order: hierarchy, liturgy, sacraments, delicts, sanctions and criminal procedure. The nineteenth book was familiarly known as \"Medicus\" or \"Corrector\", because it dealt with the spiritual ailments of different classes of the faithful; it has been edited by Wasserschleben in \"Bussordnungen der abendländischen Kirche\" (Leipzig, 1851). The twentieth, which treats of Providence, predestination and the end of the world, is therefore a theological treatise.\nThe collection, composed between 1013 and 1023 (perhaps in 1021 or 1022), is not a mere compilation, but a revision of the ecclesiastical law from the standpoint of actual needs, and an attempt to reconcile various juridical antinomies or contradictions. Burchard is a predecessor of Gratian and, like the latter, was a very popular canonist in his time. He depends on the above-mentioned ninth-century collections and even added to their apocryphal documents and erroneous attributions. The two collections just described (\"Regino\" and \"Collectio Anselmo dedicata\") were known and largely used by him. Pseudo-Isidore also furnished him more than 200 pieces. The entire collection is in \"Patrologia Latina\", CXL.\n\nYet unedited, is by an unknown, probably German, author. It includes a great deal of Burchard, follows quite closely his order, and by most is held to have copied his material, though some believe it older than Burchard.\n\n\"The Collection in Seventy-four Books\", or \"Diversorum sententia Patrum\", known to the Ballerini brothers and Augustin Theiner, is the subject of a study by Paul Fournier. He considers it a compilation of the middle of the eleventh century, done about the reign of St. Leo IX (1048–54), and in the entourage of that pope and Hildebrand.\n\nIt was well known in and out of Italy and furnished to other collections not only their general order, but also much of their material. Fournier believes it the source of the collection of Anselm of Lucca, of the \"Tarraconensis\" and the \"Polycarpus\", also of other collections specified by him.\n\nThis collection is divided into thirteen books. It is based on Burchard and the \"Collectio Anselmo dedicata\" and contains many apocryphal pieces and papal decretals not found in other collections.\n\nIt has no preface; from the beginning (\"Incipit\") of a Vatican manuscript it is clear that Anselm of Lucca compiled the work during the pontificate and by order of Pope Gregory VII (died 1085). It passed almost entire into the Decretum of Gratian.\n\nCardinal Deusdedit was enabled to use the correspondence (\"Registrum\") of Pope Gregory VII, also the Roman archives.\n\nHis work is dedicated to Pope Victor III (1086–87), the successor of Gregory, and dates therefore from the reign of Victor; its four books on the papal primacy, the Roman clergy, ecclesiastical property and the Patrimony of Peter, reflect the contemporary anxieties of the papal entourage during this phase of the conflict of Investiture between the Church and the Holy Roman empire.\n\nBonizo, Bishop of Sutri near Piacenza, published, apparently a little later than 1089, a collection in ten books preceded by a brief preface which treats successively the catechism and baptism, then the duties of divers classes of the faithful: ecclesiastical rulers and inferior clergy, temporal authorities and their subjects, finally of the cure of souls and the penitential canons. The fourth book only (\"De excellentiâ Ecclesiæ Romanæ\") has found an editor, Cardinal Mai, in the seventh volume of his \"Nova Bibliotheca Patrum\" (Rome, 1854).\n\nA collection in eight books so called by its author, Gregory, Cardinal of San Crisogono (q.v.), and dedicated to Diego Gelmírez, Archbishop of Compostella, of whose name only the initial \"D.\" is given; also known as Didacus, he was archbishop of that see from 1101 to 1120, which is therefore the approximate date of the \"Polycarpus\" (now given as around 1113). It depends on Anselm of Lucca and on the \"Collectio Anselmo dedicata\", and the above-mentioned \"Collection in Seventy-four Books\"; the author, however, must have had access to the Roman archives.\n\nYvo of Chartres exercised a pronounced influence on the development of canon law (he died 1115 or 1117). We owe to Paul Fournier a study of his juridical activity.\n\nHe has left us: \n\nAll three of these above-described collections (Decretum, Panormia, Tripartita) called for and found abridgements. Moreover, new collections arose, owing to fresh additions to these major compilations and new combinations with other similar works. Among them are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24425155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24425155", "title": "Comparison of U.S. state governments", "text": "Comparison of U.S. state governments\n\nIn the United States, the government of each of the 50 states is structured in accordance with its individual constitution. In turn, each state constitution must be grounded in republican principles. of the United States Constitution tasks the federal government with assuring that each state’s government is so organized. \n\nAll state governments are modeled after the federal government and consist of three branches (although the three-branch structure is not Constitutionally required): executive, legislative, and judicial. All state governments are also organized as presidential systems where the governor is both head of government and head of state (even though this too is not required). The government of each of the five permanently inhabited U.S. territories is modeled and organized in a like fashion. \n\nEach state is itself a sovereign entity, and as such, reserves the right to organize in any way (within the above stated parameter) deemed appropriate by its people. As a result, while the governments of the various states share many similar features, they often vary greatly with regard to form and substance. No two state governments are identical. The following tables compare and contrast some of the features of U.S. state, and territorial governments, and also the government of the District of Columbia, its capital city.\nWith the exception of Nebraska, all American state legislatures are bicameral, meaning there is one legislative body separated into two units. Nebraska eliminated its lower house with a referendum during the 1936 elections. Also, some systems, such as New York's, have two legislative bodies while never technically referring to them in the state constitution as a single body. These dual systems are generally considered bicameral.\n\nThe following table compares common legislative features of each state, the District of Columbia and the five U.S. territories.\n\nWhile only 13 states have a filibuster, there are often restrictions on the majority a state needs to raise taxes.\n\nThe Governor is the chief executive official in all states. D.C. has a mayor which serves executive functions in the District, although constitutionally it is controlled by Congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179419", "title": "Demilitarized zone", "text": "Demilitarized zone\n\nA demilitarized zone, DMZ or DZ is an area in which treaties or agreements between nations, military powers or contending groups forbid military installations, activities or personnel. A DMZ often lies along an established frontier or boundary between two or more military powers or alliances. A DMZ may sometimes form a \"de facto\" international border, such as the 38th parallel between North and South Korea. Other examples of demilitarized zones are a wide area between Iraq and Kuwait, Antarctica (preserved for scientific exploration and study) and outer space (space more than from the earth's surface).\n\nMany demilitarized zones are considered neutral territory because neither side is allowed to control it, even for non-combat administration. Some zones remain demilitarized after an agreement has awarded control to a state which (under the DMZ terms) had originally ceded its right to maintain military forces in the disputed territory. It is also possible for powers to agree on the demilitarization of a zone without formally settling their respective territorial claims, enabling the dispute to be resolved by peaceful means such as diplomatic dialogue or an international court.\n\nSeveral demilitarized zones have also unintentionally become wildlife preserves because their land is unsafe for construction or less exposed to human disturbances (including hunting). Examples include the Korean Demilitarized Zone, the Vietnamese Demilitarized Zone, and the Green Line in Cyprus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4944927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4944927", "title": "European Convention on the International Classification of Patents for Invention", "text": "European Convention on the International Classification of Patents for Invention\n\nThe European Convention on the International Classification of Patents for Invention was signed on December 19, 1954, in Paris, France, by members of the Council of Europe. It entered into force on August 1, 1955, and it was denounced by all Parties and ceased to be in force as from February 18, 1999. The Convention created the International Classification of Patents for Invention. The Convention is written in English and French, both texts being equally authoritative.\n\nThe Convention, along with the European Convention relating to the Formalities required for Patent Applications of 1953, resulted from the work of the Council of Europe's Committee of Experts in patent matters in the early 1950s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2837919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2837919", "title": "Evidence-based policy", "text": "Evidence-based policy\n\nEvidence-based policy (EBP) is a term often applied in multiple fields of public policy to refer to situations whereby policy decisions are informed by rigorously established objective evidence. Underlying many of the calls for 'evidence based policy' is often a (stated or unstated) concern with fidelity to scientific good practice, reflecting the belief that social goals are best served when scientific evidence is used rigorously and comprehensively to inform decisions, rather than in a piecemeal, manipulated, or cherry-picked manner. \n\nConceptually the term has been seen as an extension of the Scientific method or evidence-based medicine to all areas of public policy. \n\nSome have promoted particular types of evidence as 'best' for policy makers to consider, including scientifically rigorous evaluation studies such as randomized controlled trials to identify programs and practices capable of improving policy-relevant outcomes. However, some areas of policy-relevant knowledge are not well served by quantitative research, leading to debate about the methods and instruments that are considered critical for the collection of relevant evidence. For instance, policies that are concerned with human rights, public acceptability, or social justice may require other evidence than what randomized trials provide, or may require moral philosophical reasoning in addition to considerations of evidence of intervention effect (which randomised trials are principally designed to provide ). Good data, analytical skills and political support to the use of scientific information, as such, are typically seen as the important elements of an evidence-based approach.\n\nAlthough evidence-based policy can be traced as far back as the fourteenth century, it was more recently popularized by the Blair Government in the United Kingdom. The Blair Government said they wanted to end the ideological led-based decision making for policy making. For example, a UK Government white paper published in 1999 (\"Modernising Government\") noted that Government must \"produce policies that really deal with problems, that are forward-looking and shaped by evidence rather than a response to short-term pressures; that tackle causes not symptoms\".\n\nEvidence-based policy is associated with Adrian Smith because in his 1996 presidential address to the Royal Statistical Society, Smith questioned the current process of policy making and urged for a more “evidence-based approach” commenting that it has “valuable lessons to offer”.\n\nSome policy scholars now avoid using the term 'evidence based' policy, using others such as 'evidence informed'. This language shift allows continued thinking about the underlying desire to \"improve\" evidence use in terms of its rigor or quality, while avoiding some of the key limitations or reductionist ideas at times seen with the 'evidence based' language. Still, the language of 'evidence based' policy is widely used and, as such, can be interpreted to reflect a desire for evidence to be used well or appropriately in one way or another - such as by ensuring systematic consideration of rigorous and high quality policy relevant evidence, or by avoiding biased and erroneous applications of evidence for political ends.\n\nThe earliest form of evidence-based policy was tariff-making in Australia which was required under legislation to be educated by the public report issued by the Tariff Board. These reports were initially only reporting on the impacts but changed to also report on the effects of industries and the economy.\n\nMany scholars see the term \"evidence-based policy\" as evolving from \"evidence-based medicine\", in which research findings are used as the support for clinical decisions and evidence is gathered by randomized controlled trials (RCTs), which is comparing a treatment group with a placebo group to measure results. In 1993, the Cochrane Collaboration was established in the UK, and works to keep all RCTs up-to-date and provides \"Cochrane reviews\" which provides primary research in human health and health policy. There was then an increase in research and policy activists pushing for more evidence-based policy-making which led to the formation of the sister organization to Cochrane Collaboration, the Campbell Collaboration in 1999. The Campbell Collaboration conducts reviews on the best evidence that analyzes the effects of social and educational policies and practices.\n\nThe Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) became involved in the push for more evidence-based policy making with its 1.3 million pound grant to the Evidence Network in 1999. The Evidence Network is a center for evidence-based policy and practice and is similar to both the Campbell and Cochrane Collaboration.\n\nMore recently the Alliance for Useful Evidence has been established, with funding from ESRC, Big Lottery and Nesta, to champion the use of evidence in social policy and practice. The Alliance is a UK-wide network that promotes the use of high quality evidence to inform decisions on strategy, policy and practice through advocacy, publishing research, sharing ideas and advice, and holding events and training.\n\nRecently questions have been raised about the conflicts-of-interest inherent to evidence-based decision-making used in public policy development. In a study of vocational education in prisons operated by the California Department of Corrections, Andrew J. Dick, William Rich, and Tony Waters found that political considerations inevitably intruded into “evidence-based decisions” which were ostensibly technocratic in nature. They point out that this is particularly where evidence is paid for by policy makers who have a vested interest in having past political judgments confirmed, evidence based research is likely to be corrupted.\n\nThere are many methodologies for evidence-based policy but they all share the following characteristics:\n\nThe form of methodology used with evidence-based policy fit under the category of a cost-benefit framework and are created to estimate a net payoff if the policy was to be implemented. Because there is a difficulty in quantifying some effects and outcomes of the policy, it is mostly focused broadly on whether or not benefits will outweigh costs, instead of using specific values.\n\nSeveral critiques have emerged. Paul Cairney, professor of politics and public policy at the University of Stirling in Scotland, argues that supporters of the idea underestimate the complexity of policy-making and misconstrue the way that policy decisions are usually made. Moreover, evidence has emerged of front-line public servants, like hospital managers, making decisions that actually worsen patients' care in order to hit pre-ordained targets. This argument was put forward by Professor Jerry Muller of the Catholic University of America in a book called The Tyranny of Metrics. A comprehensive list of critiques, including the fact that policies shown to be successful in one place often fail in others, despite reaching a gold standard of evidence, has been compiled by the policy platform Apolitical. \nThe Overseas Development Institute has pioneered RAPID Outcome Mapping Approach (ROMA) over the past five years as a means to help aid donors and partners better transform research into policy initiatives. This approach is supported by other research within the development community. For instance, in a literature review focused on development, an integrated, participatory, structured and empowering approach to using evidence and data in decision-making to inform development decisions was tied to improved results. \n\nSix key lessons have been developed, which are:\n\n\nThese lessons show that the relationship between research, policy and practice is complex, multi-factoral, non-linear, and highly context specific. What works in one situation may not work in another. Developing effective strategies in complex environments is not straightforward. Simple tools such as cost–benefit analysis, logical frameworks, traditional project management tools and others may not work on their own, as they fail to take into account the existing complexity.\n\nBased on research conducted in six Asian and African countries, the Future Health Systems consortium has identified a set of key strategies for improving uptake of evidence in to policy, including: improving the technical capacity of policy-makers; better packaging of research findings; use of social networks; establishment of fora to assist in linking evidence with policy outcomes.\n\nROMA approach takes these lessons into account has been field tested through more than 40 workshops and training courses worldwide. It is an eight-step approach for each of which the ODI has developed resources and policy tools to ensure each step is comprehensively addressed:\n\n\nAn example of ROMA approach can be seen in the case of the Wildlife Enforcement Monitoring System (WEMS) Initiative where a systematic approach of agreement has brought its implementation in Africa.\n\nThis has resulted in:\n\n\nThe Coalition is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, whose mission is to increase government effectiveness through the use of rigorous evidence about “what works.” Since 2001, the Coalition's work with U.S. Congressional and Executive Branch officials has advanced evidence-based reforms in U.S. social programs, which have been enacted into law and policy. The Coalition has no affiliation with any programs or program models, and no financial interest in the policy ideas it supports, enabling it to serve as an independent, objective source of expertise to government officials on evidence-based policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287078", "title": "Expatriate", "text": "Expatriate\n\nAn expatriate (often shortened to expat) is a person temporarily or permanently residing in a country other than their native country. In common usage, the term often refers to professionals, skilled workers, or artists taking positions outside their home country, either independently or sent abroad by their employers, who can be companies, universities, governments, or non-governmental organisations. Effectively migrant workers, they usually earn more than they would at home, and more than local employees. However, the term 'expatriate' is also used for retirees and others who have chosen to live outside their native country. Historically, it has also referred to exiles.\n\nThe word \"expatriate\" comes from the Latin terms \"ex\" (\"out of\") and \"patria\" (\"native country, fatherland\"). Dictionary definitions for the current meaning of the word include:\n\nThese contrast with definitions of other words with a similar meaning, such as:\n\nThe varying use of these terms for different groups of foreigners can thus be seen as implying nuances about wealth, intended length of stay, perceived motives for moving, nationality, and even race. This has caused controversy, with many asserting that the traditional use of the word has had racist connotations. For example, a British national working in Spain or Portugal is commonly referred to as an 'expatriate', whereas a Spanish or Portuguese national working in Britain is referred to as an 'immigrant', thus indicating Anglocentrism.\n\nAn older usage of the word \"expatriate\" was to refer to an exile. Alternatively, when used as a verb, \"expatriation\" can mean the act of someone renouncing allegiance to their native country, as in the preamble to the United States Expatriation Act of 1868 which says, 'the right of expatriation is a natural and inherent right of all people, indispensable to the enjoyment of the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.'\n\nSome neologisms have been coined, including:\n\nSince antiquity, people have gone to live in foreign countries, whether as diplomats, merchants or missionaries. The numbers of such travellers grew markedly after the 15th century with the dawn of the European colonial period.\n\nIn the 19th century, travel became easier by way of steamship or train. People could more readily choose to live for several years in a foreign country, or be sent there by employers. The table below aims to show significant examples of expatriate communities which have developed since that time:\n\nDuring the 1930s, Nazi Germany revoked the citizenship of many opponents, such as Albert Einstein, Oskar Maria Graf, Willy Brandt and Thomas Mann, often expatriating entire families.\n\nAfter World War II, decolonisation accelerated. However, lifestyles which had developed among European colonials continued to some degree in expatriate communities. Remnants of the old British Empire, for example, can still be seen in the form of gated communities staffed by domestic workers. Social clubs which have survived include the Hash House Harriers and the Royal Selangor. Homesick palates are catered for by specialist food shops, and drinkers can still order a gin and tonic, a pink gin, or a Singapore Sling. Although pith helmets are mostly confined to military ceremonies, civilians still wear white dinner jackets or even Red Sea rig on occasion. The use of curry powder has long since spread to the metropole.\n\nFrom the 1950s, scheduled flights on jet airliners further increased the speed of international travel. This enabled a hypermobility which led to the jet set, and eventually to global nomads and the concept of a perpetual traveler.\n\nIn recent years, terrorist attacks against Westerners have at times curtailed the party lifestyle of some expatriate communities, especially in the Middle East.\n\nThe number of expatriates in the world is difficult to determine, since there is no governmental census. The international market research and consulting company Finaccord estimated the number to be 56.8 million in 2017. That would resemble the population of Tanzania or Italy.\n\nIn 2013, the United Nations estimated that 232 million people, or 3.2 per cent of the world population, lived outside their home country.\n\nMany multinational corporations send employees to foreign countries to work in branch offices or subsidiaries. Expatriate employees allow a parent company to more closely control its foreign subsidiaries. They can also improve global coordination.\n\nSuurati and Mäkelä discovered the key drivers for expatriates to pursue international careers were: breadth of responsibilities, nature of the international environment (risk and challenge), high levels of autonomy of international posts and cultural differences (rethinking old ways). \n\nHowever, expatriate professionals and independent expatriate hires are often more expensive than local employees. Expatriate salaries are usually augmented with allowances to compensate for a higher cost of living or hardships associated with a foreign posting. Other expenses may need to be paid, such as health care, housing, or fees at an international school. There is also the cost of moving a family and their belongings. Another problem can be government restrictions in the foreign country.\n\nSpouses may have trouble adjusting due to culture shock, loss of their usual social network, interruptions to their own career, and helping children cope with a new school. These are chief reasons given for foreign assignments ending early. However, a spouse can also act as a source of support for an expatriate professional. Families with children help to bridge the language and culture aspect of the host and home country, while the spouse plays a critical role in balancing the families integration into the culture. Some corporations have begun to include spouses earlier when making decisions about a foreign posting, and offer coaching or adjustment training before a family departs. According to the 2012 Global Relocation Trends Survey Report, 88 per cent of spouses resist a proposed move. The most common reasons for refusing an assignment are family concerns and the spouse's career.\n\n\"Expatriate failure\" is a term which has been coined for an employee returning prematurely to their home country, or resigning. One study found that the expatriate failure rate is put at 20 to 40 per cent by 69 per cent of executives with multinational corporations.\n\nAnother issue with expatriate children is that often when children are raised in a country that is not their passport country, when they go back to their home country or leave their known community, they find themselves lost and without friends or peers to relate to. Children or young adults like this are called Third culture kids. This means that they have essentially two cultures within themselves- the country in which they are living and the country they identify with as their passport country. This creates an assortment of issues- including the fact that they do not have an exact culture. Because they are a jumble of cultures, they don't feel as if they have a category in this world. Therefore, this creates a middle zone called the \"third culture.\" The culture is a safe haven for misunderstood expatriate children to reside in.\n\nThere are many questions third culture kids face, such as the most commonly struggled with one- \"Where are you from?\" These types of questions are incredibly difficult for expats to explain. Even expat parents may not be able to answer the burning questions they have been asked by their children. Students living abroad also have to choose schools- often opting for international schools, due to the fact that the environment is an area that is practically a habitat to cultivate understanding between third culture kids. Students going to international schools often feel understood more deeply by going to the school- rather than how understood they would feel at any other school that is on their passport. This is simply because of the subconscious understanding between children who are struggling in the same ways with their identity.\n\nThere are also downsides to expatriate life, however. Expatriate life is difficult- it is not for the faint of heart. Because of the trauma of moving from place to place; young children, specifically between the ages 10-15, experience what is called Expat Child Syndrome. Expat Child Syndrome is defined as \"..a term that has been coined by psychologists to describe an emotional stress in children caused by a move abroad.\" Expat Child Syndrome is present in many ways- some visible and some invisible. Some children may be more affected by it than others. The more severe cases include behavior of seclusion, loneliness, withdrawn behavior and uncooperative or even disruptive behavior. Nevertheless, abrupt movement between cultures and communities is uprooting and terrifying for children and young adults.\n\nTrends in recent years among business expatriates have included:\n\nExpatriate milieus are the setting of many novels and short stories, including works by:\n\nMemoirs of expatriate life include those by authors such as:\nFilms have also been made about the subject, often dealing with issues of culture shock experienced by expatriates. Examples, grouped by host country, include:\nTelevision programmes made about expatriate life include comedies, dramas, documentaries and reality series, such as:\n"}
{"id": "6799653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6799653", "title": "Fire-retardant fabric", "text": "Fire-retardant fabric\n\nFire-retardant fabrics are textiles that are naturally more resistant to fire than others through chemical treatment or manufactured fireproof fibers.\n\nThe term \"fire-retardant\" as applied to organic (i.e., containing carbon) materials, is intended to refer to \"reduced\" fire hazard, as all will burn under certain circumstances. The tests used specified in building codes, such as NFPA 701, are more correctly \"flame resistance\" tests, which test a fabric's ability to resist ignition with the flame size and duration in the test conditions. The result is a comparative test, which provides a measure of the material's resistance to propagating combustion caused by small scale ignition sources. These tests do not predict the burning characteristics of full scale hazards. In many cases, if exposed to a sufficiently large and sustained exposure fire, the fire-retardant fabrics will burn vigorously. Polyester is inherently flame retardant, and therefore doesn't flare up when applied to various tests. Any amount of heat delivered within a long enough time interval will have no impact on the fabrics' integrity while a limited amount of heat delivered within short enough time interval may ignite or melt the fabric. A simple method for evaluating the threshold incident energy for ignition or melting of fabrics as a function of convective and radiant heat flux has been developed.\n\nInherently flame-retardant fabrics are certified in the United Kingdom by various British Standards. Fire-retardant fabrics sold in the UK for use as curtains must abide by BS 5867 Part 2 B & C, a British Standard. Other relevant UK standards include BS 5815-1 2005, BS 7175, Crib 5, IMO A563 and NFPA 701.\n\nFabric flammability is an important textile issue, especially for stage drapery that will be used in a public space such as a school, theatre or special event venue. In the United States, Federal regulations require that drapery fabrics used in such spaces be certified as flame or fire-retardant. For draperies and other fabrics used in public places, this is known as the NFPA 701 Test, which follows standards developed by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). Although all fabrics will burn, some are naturally more resistant to fire than others. Those that are more flammable can have their fire resistance drastically improved by treatment with fire-retardant chemicals.\n\nInherently flame-retardant fabrics such as polyester are commonly used for flame retardant curtain fabrics.\n\nFire-retardant fabrics are normally treated to different British Standards; normally this depends on the end usage of the fabrics. BS 476 is a fire treatment for fabrics that are normally for wall hanging, and must only be used as for that purpose, where as CRIB 5 is a fabric fire treatment for upholstery and must only be used for furnishing and upholstery purposes, even if both fabrics have been treated for fire-retardancy.\nThe relevant standards for fire-retardant fabrics include:\n\nThe M1 standard is a European standard that is widely used in Europe only. Most UK fire officers are reluctant to accept MI certification, they prefer BS certificates.\n\nWhen a fabric is designated as \"inherently fire-retardant\", \"permanently fire-retardant\", or \"durably fire-retardant\", the flame retardancy will last for the life of the fabric as it has been woven into the fabric fiber itself. The drapery can be laundered or dry-cleaned as recommended by the drapery manufacturer. In the case of fabrics that are designated as \"fire-retardant\", that have been topically treated with chemicals, the flame retardancy of the fabric will dissipate over time, particularly with repeated cleaning. As these chemicals are soluble in liquids-either water or dry cleaning fluid, these fabrics must be dry-cleaned with a non-liquid cleaning agent. The flame retardants work by coating the flammable fabrics with a mineral based barrier, preventing fire from reaching the fibres. \n\nTypically, the flame retardancy of topically treated fabric is certified for one year, though the actual length of time in which the treatment remains effective will vary based on the number of times the drapery is dry-cleaned and the environmental conditions in the location in which the drapery is used. It is recommended that topically treated drapery be re-tested for fire-retardancy on an annual basis and re-treated by a qualified professional as needed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25887068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25887068", "title": "France–Solomon Islands Maritime Delimitation Agreement", "text": "France–Solomon Islands Maritime Delimitation Agreement\n\nThe France – Solomon Islands Maritime Delimitation Agreement is a 1990 treaty in which France and the Solomon Islands agreed to a maritime boundary between the Solomon Islands and the French territory of New Caledonia.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Honiara on 12 November 1990. The text of the treaty is brief and sets out a boundary of three straight-line maritime segments defined by four individual coordinate points. The boundary runs roughly east to west and represents an approximate equidistant line between New Caledonia and the Solomon Islands.\n\nThe treaty came into force on the day it was signed. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement on maritime delimitation between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Solomon Islands\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11646", "title": "Friedrich Hayek", "text": "Friedrich Hayek\n\nFriedrich August von Hayek (; ; 8 May 1899 – 23 March 1992), often referred to by his initials F. A. Hayek, was an Austrian economist and philosopher best known for his defense of classical liberalism. Hayek shared the 1974 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Gunnar Myrdal for his \"pioneering work in the theory of money and economic fluctuations and [...] penetrating analysis of the interdependence of economic, social and institutional phenomena\". Hayek was also a major social theorist and political philosopher of the 20th century and his account of how changing prices communicate information that helps individuals co-ordinate their plans is widely regarded as an important achievement in economics, leading to his Nobel Prize.\n\nHayek served in World War I and said that his experience in the war and his desire to help avoid the mistakes that had led to the war drew him into economics. Hayek lived in Austria, Great Britain, the United States and Germany and became a British subject in 1938. He spent most of his academic life at the London School of Economics, the University of Chicago and the University of Freiburg.\n\nHayek was appointed a Companion of Honour in 1984 for \"services to the study of economics\". He was the first recipient of the Hanns Martin Schleyer Prize in 1984. He also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1991 from President George H. W. Bush. In 2011, his article \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" was selected as one of the top 20 articles published in \"The American Economic Review\" during its first 100 years.\n\nFriedrich August von Hayek was born in Vienna to August von Hayek and Felicitas Hayek (\"née\" von Juraschek). His father, from whom he received his middle name, was born in 1871 also in Vienna. He was a medical doctor employed by the municipal ministry of health with a passion for botany, about which he wrote a number of monographs. August von Hayek was also a part-time botany lecturer at the University of Vienna. His mother was born in 1875 to a wealthy conservative and land-owning family. As her mother died several years prior to Hayek's birth, Felicitas received a significant inheritance, which provided as much as half of her and her husband's income during the early years of their marriage. Hayek was the oldest of three brothers, Heinrich (1900–1969) and Erich (1904–1986), who were one-and-a-half and five years younger than him.\n\nHis father's career as a university professor influenced Hayek's goals later in life. Both of his grandfathers, who lived long enough for Hayek to know them, were scholars. was a leading economist in Austria-Hungary and a close friend of Eugen Böhm von Bawerk, one of the founders of the Austrian School of Economics. Hayek's paternal grandfather, Gustav Edler von Hayek, taught natural sciences at the Imperial \"Realobergymnasium\" (secondary school) in Vienna. He wrote systematic works in biology, some of which are relatively well known.\n\nOn his mother's side, Hayek was second cousin to the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein. His mother often played with Wittgenstein's sisters and had known him well. As a result of their family relationship, Hayek became one of the first to read Wittgenstein's \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" when the book was published in its original German edition in 1921. Although he met Wittgenstein on only a few occasions, Hayek said that Wittgenstein's philosophy and methods of analysis had a profound influence on his own life and thought. In his later years, Hayek recalled a discussion of philosophy with Wittgenstein when both were officers during World War I. After Wittgenstein's death, Hayek had intended to write a biography of Wittgenstein and worked on collecting family materials and later assisted biographers of Wittgenstein. He was related to Wittgenstein on the non-Jewish side of the Wittgenstein family. Since his youth, Hayek frequently socialized with Jewish intellectuals and he mentions that people often speculated whether he was also of Jewish ancestry. That made him curious, so he spent some time researching his ancestors and found out that he has no Jewish ancestors for five generations in all directions. Surname Hayek is German spelling of Czech surname Hájek.\n\nHayek displayed an intellectual and academic bent from a very young age. He read fluently and frequently before going to school. At his father's suggestion, as a teenager he read the genetic and evolutionary works of Hugo de Vries and August Weismann and the philosophical works of Ludwig Feuerbach. In school, Hayek was much taken by one instructor's lectures on Aristotle's ethics. In his unpublished autobiographical notes, Hayek recalled a division between him and his younger brothers who were only a few years younger than him, but he believed that they were somehow of a different generation. He preferred to associate with adults.\nIn 1917, Hayek joined an artillery regiment in the Austro-Hungarian Army and fought on the Italian front. Much of Hayek's combat experience was spent as a spotter in an aeroplane. Hayek suffered damage to his hearing in his left ear during the war and was decorated for bravery. During this time, Hayek also survived the 1918 flu pandemic.\n\nHayek then decided to pursue an academic career, determined to help avoid the mistakes that had led to the war. Hayek said of his experience: \"The decisive influence was really World War I. It's bound to draw your attention to the problems of political organization\". He vowed to work for a better world.\n\nAt the University of Vienna, Hayek earned doctorates in law and political science in 1921 and 1923 respectively and also studied philosophy, psychology and economics. For a short time, when the University of Vienna closed he studied in Constantin von Monakow's Institute of Brain Anatomy, where Hayek spent much of his time staining brain cells. Hayek's time in Monakow's lab and his deep interest in the work of Ernst Mach inspired his first intellectual project, eventually published as \"The Sensory Order\" (1952). It located connective learning at the physical and neurological levels, rejecting the \"sense data\" associationism of the empiricists and logical positivists. Hayek presented his work to the private seminar he had created with Herbert Furth called the Geistkreis.\n\nDuring Hayek's years at the University of Vienna, Carl Menger's work on the explanatory strategy of social science and Friedrich von Wieser's commanding presence in the classroom left a lasting influence on him. Upon the completion of his examinations, Hayek was hired by Ludwig von Mises on the recommendation of Wieser as a specialist for the Austrian government working on the legal and economic details of the Treaty of Saint Germain. Between 1923 and 1924, Hayek worked as a research assistant to Professor Jeremiah Jenks of New York University, compiling macroeconomic data on the American economy and the operations of the Federal Reserve.\nInitially sympathetic to Wieser's democratic socialism, Hayek's economic thinking shifted away from socialism and toward the classical liberalism of Carl Menger after reading von Mises' book \"Socialism\". It was sometime after reading \"Socialism\" that Hayek began attending von Mises' private seminars, joining several of his university friends, including Fritz Machlup, Alfred Schutz, Felix Kaufmann and Gottfried Haberler, who were also participating in Hayek's own more general and private seminar. It was during this time that he also encountered and befriended noted political philosopher Eric Voegelin, with whom he retained a long-standing relationship.\nWith the help of Mises, in the late 1920s he founded and served as director of the Austrian Institute for Business Cycle Research before joining the faculty of the London School of Economics (LSE) in 1931 at the behest of Lionel Robbins. Upon his arrival in London, Hayek was quickly recognised as one of the leading economic theorists in the world and his development of the economics of processes in time and the co-ordination function of prices inspired the ground-breaking work of John Hicks, Abba P. Lerner and many others in the development of modern microeconomics.\n\nIn 1932, Hayek suggested that private investment in the public markets was a better road to wealth and economic co-ordination in Britain than government spending programs as argued in an exchange of letters with John Maynard Keynes, co-signed with Lionel Robbins and others in \"The Times.\" The nearly decade long deflationary depression in Britain dating from Winston Churchill's decision in 1925 to return Britain to the gold standard at the old pre-war and pre-inflationary par was the public policy backdrop for Hayek's dissenting engagement with Keynes over British monetary and fiscal policy. Well beyond that single public conflict, regarding the economics of extending the length of production to the economics of labour inputs, Hayek and Keynes disagreed on many essential economics matters. Their economic disagreements were both practical and fundamental in nature. Keynes called Hayek's book \"Prices and Production\" \"one of the most frightful muddles I have ever read\", famously adding: \"It is an extraordinary example of how, starting with a mistake, a remorseless logician can end in Bedlam\". Many other notable economists have also been staunch critics of Hayek, including John Kenneth Galbraith and later Paul Krugman, who wrote that \"the Hayek thing is almost entirely about politics rather than economics\".\n\nNotable economists who studied with Hayek at the LSE in the 1930s and 1940s include Arthur Lewis, Ronald Coase, William Baumol, the aforementioned John Kenneth Galbraith, Leonid Hurwicz, Abba Lerner, Nicholas Kaldor, George Shackle, Thomas Balogh, L. K. Jha, Arthur Seldon, Paul Rosenstein-Rodan and Oskar Lange. Some were supportive and some were critical of his ideas. Hayek also taught or tutored many other LSE students, including David Rockefeller.\n\nUnwilling to return to Austria after the \"Anschluss\" brought it under the control of Nazi Germany in 1938, Hayek remained in Britain. Hayek and his children became British subjects in 1938. He held this status for the remainder of his life, but he did not live in Great Britain after 1950. He lived in the United States from 1950 to 1962 and then mostly in Germany, but also briefly in Austria.\n\nIn 1947, Hayek was elected a Fellow of the Econometric Society.\n\nHayek was concerned about the general view in Britain's academia that fascism was a capitalist reaction to socialism and \"The Road to Serfdom\" arose from those concerns. It was written between 1940 and 1943. The title was inspired by the French classical liberal thinker Alexis de Tocqueville's writings on the \"road to servitude\". It was first published in Britain by Routledge in March 1944 and was quite popular, leading Hayek to call it \"that unobtainable book\" also due in part to wartime paper rationing. When it was published in the United States by the University of Chicago in September of that year, it achieved greater popularity than in Britain. At the instigation of editor Max Eastman, the American magazine \"Reader's Digest\" also published an abridged version in April 1945, enabling \"The Road to Serfdom\" to reach a far wider audience than academics. The book is widely popular among those advocating individualism and classical liberalism.\n\nIn 1950, Hayek left the London School of Economics. After spending the 1949–1950 academic year as a visiting professor at the University of Arkansas, Hayek was brought on by the University of Chicago, where he became a professor in the Committee on Social Thought. Hayek's salary was funded not by the university, but by an outside foundation, the William Volker Fund.\n\nHayek had made contact with many at the University of Chicago in the 1940s, with Hayek's \"The Road to Serfdom\" playing a seminal role in transforming how Milton Friedman and others understood how society works. Hayek conducted a number of influential faculty seminars while at the University of Chicago and a number of academics worked on research projects sympathetic to some of Hayek's own, such as Aaron Director, who was active in the Chicago School in helping to fund and establish what became the \"Law and Society\" program in the University of Chicago Law School. Hayek, Frank Knight, Friedman and George Stigler worked together in forming the Mont Pèlerin Society, an international forum for neoliberals. Hayek and Friedman cooperated in support of the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, later renamed the Intercollegiate Studies Institute, an American student organisation devoted to libertarian ideas.\nHayek's first class at Chicago was a faculty seminar on the philosophy of science attended by many of the University of Chicago's most notable scientists of the time, including Enrico Fermi, Sewall Wright and Leó Szilárd. During his time at Chicago, Hayek worked on the philosophy of science, economics, political philosophy and the history of ideas. Hayek's economics notes from this period have yet to be published. Hayek received a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1954.\n\nAfter editing a book on John Stuart Mill's letters he planned to publish two books on the liberal order, \"The Constitution of Liberty\" and \"The Creative Powers of a Free Civilization\" (eventually the title for the second chapter of \"The Constitution of Liberty\"). He completed \"The Constitution of Liberty\" in May 1959, with publication in February 1960. Hayek was concerned that \"with that condition of men in which coercion of some by others is reduced as much as is possible in society\". Hayek was disappointed that the book did not receive the same enthusiastic general reception as \"The Road to Serfdom\" had sixteen years before.\n\nFrom 1962 until his retirement in 1968, he was a professor at the University of Freiburg, West Germany, where he began work on his next book, \"Law, Legislation and Liberty\". Hayek regarded his years at Freiburg as \"very fruitful\". Following his retirement, Hayek spent a year as a visiting professor of philosophy at the University of California, Los Angeles, where he continued work on \"Law, Legislation and Liberty\", teaching a graduate seminar by the same name and another on the philosophy of social science. Preliminary drafts of the book were completed by 1970, but Hayek chose to rework his drafts and finally brought the book to publication in three volumes in 1973, 1976 and 1979.\nHayek became a professor at the University of Salzburg from 1969 to 1977 and then returned to Freiburg, where he spent the rest of his days. When Hayek left Salzburg in 1977, he wrote: \"I made a mistake in moving to Salzburg\". The economics department was small and the library facilities were inadequate.\n\nOn 9 October 1974, it was announced that Hayek would be awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics along with Swedish economist Gunnar Myrdal. The reasons for the two of them winning the prize are described in the Nobel committee's press release. He was surprised at being given the award and believed that he was given it with Myrdal to balance the award with someone from the opposite side of the political spectrum.\n\nDuring the Nobel ceremony in December 1974, Hayek met the Russian dissident Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. Hayek later sent him a Russian translation of \"The Road to Serfdom\". He spoke with apprehension at his award speech about the danger the authority of the prize would lend to an economist, but the prize brought much greater public awareness to the then controversial ideas of Hayek and has been described by his biographer as \"the great rejuvenating event in his life\".\n\nIn February 1975, Margaret Thatcher was elected leader of the British Conservative Party. The Institute of Economic Affairs arranged a meeting between Hayek and Thatcher in London soon after. During Thatcher's only visit to the Conservative Research Department in the summer of 1975, a speaker had prepared a paper on why the \"middle way\" was the pragmatic path the Conservative Party should take, avoiding the extremes of left and right. Before he had finished, Thatcher \"reached into her briefcase and took out a book. It was Hayek's \"The Constitution of Liberty\". Interrupting our pragmatist, she held the book up for all of us to see. 'This', she said sternly, 'is what we believe', and banged Hayek down on the table\".\n\nIn 1977, Hayek was critical of the Lib–Lab pact in which the British Liberal Party agreed to keep the British Labour government in office. Writing to \"The Times\", Hayek said: \"May one who has devoted a large part of his life to the study of the history and the principles of liberalism point out that a party that keeps a socialist government in power has lost all title to the name 'Liberal'. Certainly no liberal can in future vote 'Liberal'\". Hayek was criticised by Liberal politicians Gladwyn Jebb and Andrew Phillips, who both claimed that the purpose of the pact was to discourage socialist legislation.\n\nLord Gladwyn pointed out that the German Free Democrats were in coalition with the German Social Democrats. However, Hayek was defended by Professor Antony Flew, who stated that—unlike the British Labour Party—the German Social Democrats had since the late 1950s abandoned public ownership of the means of production, distribution and exchange and had instead embraced the social market economy.\n\nIn 1978, Hayek came into conflict with Liberal Party leader David Steel, who claimed that liberty was possible only with \"social justice and an equitable distribution of wealth and power, which in turn require a degree of active government intervention\" and that the Conservative Party were more concerned with the connection between liberty and private enterprise than between liberty and democracy. Hayek claimed that a limited democracy might be better than other forms of limited government at protecting liberty, but that an unlimited democracy was worse than other forms of unlimited government because \"its government loses the power even to do what it thinks right if any group on which its majority depends thinks otherwise\".\n\nHayek stated that if the Conservative leader had said \"that free choice is to be exercised more in the market place than in the ballot box, she has merely uttered the truism that the first is indispensable for individual freedom while the second is not: free choice can at least exist under a dictatorship that can limit itself but not under the government of an unlimited democracy which cannot\".\n\nPresident Ronald Reagan listed Hayek as among the two or three people who most influenced his philosophy and welcomed Hayek to the White House as a special guest. In the 1970s and 1980s, the writings of Hayek were also a major influence on many of the leaders of the \"velvet\" revolution in Central Europe during the collapse of the old Soviet Empire. Some supporting examples include the following:\n\nIn 1980, Hayek, a non-practising Roman Catholic, was one of twelve Nobel laureates to meet with Pope John Paul II \"to dialogue, discuss views in their fields, communicate regarding the relationship between Catholicism and science, and 'bring to the Pontiff's attention the problems which the Nobel Prize Winners, in their respective fields of study, consider to be the most urgent for contemporary man'\".\n\nHayek was appointed a Companion of Honour (CH) in the 1984 Birthday Honours by Elizabeth II on the advice of British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for his \"services to the study of economics\". Hayek had hoped to receive a baronetcy and after being awarded the CH sent a letter to his friends requesting that he be called the English version of Friedrich (i.e. Frederick) from now on. After his twenty-minute audience with the Queen, he was \"absolutely besotted\" with her according to his daughter-in-law Esca Hayek. Hayek said a year later that he was \"amazed by her. That ease and skill, as if she'd known me all my life\". The audience with the Queen was followed by a dinner with family and friends at the Institute of Economic Affairs. When later that evening Hayek was dropped off at the Reform Club, he commented: \"I've just had the happiest day of my life\".\n\nIn 1991, President George H. W. Bush awarded Hayek the Presidential Medal of Freedom, one of the two highest civilian awards in the United States, for a \"lifetime of looking beyond the horizon\". Hayek died on 23 March 1992 in Freiburg, Germany and was buried on 4 April in the Neustift am Walde cemetery in the northern outskirts of Vienna according to the Catholic rite. In 2011, his article \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" was selected as one of the top 20 articles published in \"The American Economic Review\" during its first 100 years.\n\nThe New York University \"Journal of Law and Liberty\" holds an annual lecture in his honour.\n\nHayek's principal investigations in economics concerned capital, money and the business cycle. Ludwig von Mises had earlier applied the concept of marginal utility to the value of money in his \"Theory of Money and Credit\" (1912) in which he also proposed an explanation for \"industrial fluctuations\" based on the ideas of the old British Currency School and of Swedish economist Knut Wicksell. Hayek used this body of work as a starting point for his own interpretation of the business cycle, elaborating what later became known as the Austrian theory of the business cycle. Hayek spelled out the Austrian approach in more detail in his book, published in 1929, an English translation of which appeared in 1933 as \"Monetary Theory and the Trade Cycle\". There, Hayek argued for a monetary approach to the origins of the cycle. In his \"Prices and Production\" (1931), Hayek argued that the business cycle resulted from the central bank's inflationary credit expansion and its transmission over time, leading to a capital misallocation caused by the artificially low interest rates. Hayek claimed that \"the past instability of the market economy is the consequence of the exclusion of the most important regulator of the market mechanism, money, from itself being regulated by the market process\".\n\nHayek's analysis was based on Eugen Böhm von Bawerk's concept of the \"average period of production\" and on the effects that monetary policy could have upon it. In accordance with the reasoning later outlined in his essay \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945), Hayek argued that a monopolistic governmental agency like a central bank can neither possess the relevant information which should govern supply of money, nor have the ability to use it correctly.\n\nIn 1929, Lionel Robbins assumed the helm of the London School of Economics (LSE). Eager to promote alternatives to what he regarded as the narrow approach of the school of economic thought that then dominated the English-speaking academic world (centred at the University of Cambridge and deriving largely from the work of Alfred Marshall), Robbins invited Hayek to join the faculty at LSE, which he did in 1931. According to Nicholas Kaldor, Hayek's theory of the time-structure of capital and of the business cycle initially \"fascinated the academic world\" and appeared to offer a less \"facile and superficial\" understanding of macroeconomics than the Cambridge school's.\n\nAlso in 1931, Hayek critiqued John Maynard Keynes's \"Treatise on Money\" (1930) in his \"Reflections on the pure theory of Mr. J. M. Keynes\" and published his lectures at the LSE in book form as \"Prices and Production\". For Keynes, unemployment and idle resources are caused by a lack of effective demand, but for Hayek they stem from a previous unsustainable episode of easy money and artificially low interest rates. Keynes asked his friend Piero Sraffa to respond. Sraffa elaborated on the effect of inflation-induced \"forced savings\" on the capital sector and about the definition of a \"natural\" interest rate in a growing economy (see Sraffa–Hayek debate). Others who responded negatively to Hayek's work on the business cycle included John Hicks, Frank Knight and Gunnar Myrdal. Kaldor later wrote that Hayek's \"Prices and Production\" had produced \"a remarkable crop of critics\" and that the total number of pages in British and American journals dedicated to the resulting debate \"could rarely have been equalled in the economic controversies of the past\".\n\nHayek continued his research on monetary and capital theory, revising his theories of the relations between credit cycles and capital structure in \"Profits, Interest and Investment\" (1939) and \"The Pure Theory of Capital\" (1941), but his reputation as an economic theorist had by then fallen so much that those works were largely ignored, except for scathing critiques by Nicholas Kaldor. Lionel Robbins himself, who had embraced the Austrian theory of the business cycle in \"The Great Depression\" (1934), later regretted having written the book and accepted many of the Keynesian counter-arguments.\n\nHayek never produced the book-length treatment of \"the dynamics of capital\" that he had promised in the \"Pure Theory of Capital.\" After 1941, he continued to publish works on the economics of information, political philosophy, the theory of law and psychology, but seldom on macroeconomics. At the University of Chicago, Hayek was not part of the economics department and did not influence the rebirth of neoclassical theory that took place there (see Chicago school of economics). When in 1974 he shared the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics with Myrdal, the latter complained about being paired with an \"ideologue\". Milton Friedman declared himself \"an enormous admirer of Hayek, but not for his economics. I think \"Prices and Production\" is a very flawed book. I think his [\"Pure Theory of Capital\"] is unreadable. On the other hand, \"The Road to Serfdom\" is one of the great books of our time\".\n\nBuilding on the earlier work of Mises and others, Hayek also argued that while in centrally planned economies an individual or a select group of individuals must determine the distribution of resources, these planners will never have enough information to carry out this allocation reliably. This argument, first proposed by Max Weber, says that the efficient exchange and use of resources can be maintained only through the price mechanism in free markets (see economic calculation problem).\n\nIn 1935, Hayek published \"Collectivist Economic Planning\", a collection of essays from an earlier debate that had been initiated by Mises. Hayek included Mises's essay in which Mises argued that rational planning was impossible under socialism.\n\nSome socialists such as H. D. Dickinson and Oskar Lange responded by invoking general equilibrium theory, which they argued disproved Mises's thesis. They noted that the difference between a planned and a free market system lay in who was responsible for solving the equations. They argued that if some of the prices chosen by socialist managers were wrong, gluts or shortages would appear, signalling them to adjust the prices up or down, just as in a free market. Through such a trial and error, a socialist economy could mimic the efficiency of a free market system while avoiding its many problems.\n\nHayek challenged this vision in a series of contributions. In \"Economics and Knowledge\" (1937), he pointed out that the standard equilibrium theory assumed that all agents have full and correct information. However, in the real world different individuals have different bits of knowledge and furthermore some of what they believe is wrong.\n\nIn \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945), Hayek argued that the price mechanism serves to share and synchronise local and personal knowledge, allowing society's members to achieve diverse and complicated ends through a principle of spontaneous self-organization. He contrasted the use of the price mechanism with central planning, arguing that the former allows for more rapid adaptation to changes in particular circumstances of time and place. Thus, Hayek set the stage for Oliver Williamson's later contrast between markets and hierarchies as alternative co-ordination mechanisms for economic transactions. He used the term catallaxy to describe a \"self-organizing system of voluntary co-operation\". Hayek's research into this argument was specifically cited by the Nobel Committee in its press release awarding Hayek the Nobel prize.\n\nHayek was one of the leading academic critics of collectivism in the 20th century. Hayek argued that all forms of collectivism (even those theoretically based on voluntary co-operation) could only be maintained by a central authority of some kind. In Hayek's view, the central role of the state should be to maintain the rule of law, with as little arbitrary intervention as possible. In his popular book \"The Road to Serfdom\" (1944) and in subsequent academic works, Hayek argued that socialism required central economic planning and that such planning in turn leads towards totalitarianism.\n\nIn \"The Road to Serfdom\", Hayek wrote:\n\nHayek posited that a central planning authority would have to be endowed with powers that would impact and ultimately control social life because the knowledge required for centrally planning an economy is inherently decentralised, and would need to be brought under control.\n\nThough Hayek did argue that the state should provide law centrally, others have pointed out that this contradicts his arguments about the role of judges in \"discovering\" the law, suggesting that Hayek would have supported decentralized provision of legal services.\n\nHayek also wrote that the state can play a role in the economy, specifically in creating a safety net, saying: There is no reason why, in a society which has reached the general level of wealth ours has, the first kind of security should not be guaranteed to all without endangering general freedom; that is: some minimum of food, shelter and clothing, sufficient to preserve health. Nor is there any reason why the state should not help to organize a comprehensive system of social insurance in providing for those common hazards of life against which few can make adequate provision.\n\nPerhaps more fully than any other economist, Hayek investigated the choice theory of investment. He examined the inter-relations between non-permanent production goods and \"latent\" or potentially economic permanent resources, building on the choice theoretical insight that \"processes that take more time will evidently not be adopted unless they yield a greater return than those that take less time\".\n\nHayek's work on the microeconomics of the choice theoretics of investment, non-permanent goods, potential permanent resources and economically-adapted permanent resources mark a central dividing point between his work in areas of macroeconomics and that of almost all other economists. Hayek's work on the macroeconomic subjects of central planning, trade cycle theory, the division of knowledge and entrepreneurial adaptation especially, differ greatly from the opinions of macroeconomic \"Marshallian\" economists who follow the tradition of John Maynard Keynes and the microeconomic \"Walrasian\" economists who follow the tradition of Abba Lerner.\n\nDuring World War II, Hayek began the Abuse of Reason project. His goal was to show how a number of then-popular doctrines and beliefs had a common origin in some fundamental misconceptions about the social science. In his philosophy of science, which has much in common with that of his good friend Karl Popper, Hayek was highly critical of what he termed \"scientism\", a false understanding of the methods of science that has been mistakenly forced upon the social sciences, but that is contrary to the practices of genuine science. Usually, scientism involves combining the philosophers' ancient demand for demonstrative justification with the associationists' false view that all scientific explanations are simple two-variable linear relationships.\n\nHayek points out that much of science involves the explanation of complex multivariable and nonlinear phenomena and the social science of economics and undesigned order compares favourably with such complex sciences as Darwinian biology. These ideas were developed in \"The Counter-Revolution of Science\" in 1952 and in some of Hayek's later essays in the philosophy of science such as \"Degrees of Explanation\" (1955) and \"The Theory of Complex Phenomena\" (1964).\n\nIn \"Counter-Revolution\", for example, Hayek observed that the hard sciences attempt to remove the \"human factor\" to obtain objective and strictly controlled results: \n\nMeanwhile, the soft sciences are attempting to measure human action itself: \n\nHe notes that these are mutually exclusive and that social sciences should not attempt to impose positivist methodology, nor to claim objective or definite results:\n\nIn \"The Sensory Order: An Inquiry into the Foundations of Theoretical Psychology\" (1952), Hayek independently developed a \"Hebbian learning\" model of learning and memory—an idea he first conceived in 1920 prior to his study of economics. Hayek's expansion of the \"Hebbian synapse\" construction into a global brain theory has received attention in neuroscience, cognitive science, computer science, behavioural science and evolutionary psychology by scientists such as Gerald Edelman and Joaquin Fuster.\n\n\"The Sensory Order\" can be viewed as a development of his attack on scientism. Hayek posited two orders, namely the sensory order that we experience and the natural order that natural science has revealed. Hayek thought that the sensory order actually is a product of the brain. He described the brain as a very complex yet self-ordering hierarchical classification system, a huge network of connections. Because of these nature of the classifier system, richness of our sensory experience can exist. Hayek's description posed problems to behaviorism, whose proponents took the sensory order as fundamental.\n\nIn the latter half of his career, Hayek made a number of contributions to social and political philosophy which he based on his views on the limits of human knowledge and the idea of spontaneous order in social institutions. He argues in favour of a society organised around a market order in which the apparatus of state is employed almost (though not entirely) exclusively to enforce the legal order (consisting of abstract rules and not particular commands) necessary for a market of free individuals to function. These ideas were informed by a moral philosophy derived from epistemological concerns regarding the inherent limits of human knowledge. Hayek argued that his ideal individualistic and free-market polity would be self-regulating to such a degree that it would be \"a society which does not depend for its functioning on our finding good men for running it\".\n\nAlthough Hayek believed in a society governed by laws, he disapproved of the notion of \"social justice\". He compared the market to a game in which \"there is no point in calling the outcome just or unjust\" and argued that \"social justice is an empty phrase with no determinable content\". Likewise, \"the results of the individual's efforts are necessarily unpredictable, and the question as to whether the resulting distribution of incomes is just has no meaning\". He generally regarded government redistribution of income or capital as an unacceptable intrusion upon individual freedom, saying that \"the principle of distributive justice, once introduced, would not be fulfilled until the whole of society was organized in accordance with it. This would produce a kind of society which in all essential respects would be the opposite of a free society\".\n\nHayek viewed the free price system not as a conscious invention (that which is intentionally designed by man), but as spontaneous order or what Scottish philosopher Adam Ferguson referred to as \"the result of human action but not of human design\". For instance, Hayek put the price mechanism on the same level as language.\n\nHayek attributed the birth of civilisation to private property in his book \"The Fatal Conceit\" (1988). He explained that price signals are the only means of enabling each economic decision maker to communicate tacit knowledge or dispersed knowledge to each other to solve the economic calculation problem. Alain de Benoist of the \"Nouvelle Droite\" (New Right) produced a highly critical essay on Hayek's work in an issue of \"Telos\", citing the flawed assumptions behind Hayek's idea of \"spontaneous order\" and the authoritarian and totalising implications of his free-market ideology.\n\nHayek's concept of the market as a spontaneous order has been recently applied to ecosystems to defend a broadly non-interventionist policy. Like the market, ecosystems contain complex networks of information, involve an ongoing dynamic process, contain orders within orders and the entire system operates without being directed by a conscious mind. On this analysis, species takes the place of price as a visible element of the system formed by a complex set of largely unknowable elements. Human ignorance about the countless interactions between the organisms of an ecosystem limits our ability to manipulate nature. Since humans rely on the ecosystem to sustain themselves, we have a \"prima facie\" obligation to not disrupt such systems. This analysis of ecosystems as spontaneous orders does not rely on markets qualifying as spontaneous orders. As such, one need not endorse Hayek's analysis of markets to endorse ecosystems as spontaneous orders.\n\nWith regard to a social safety net, Hayek advocated \"some provision for those threatened by the extremes of indigence or starvation due to circumstances beyond their control\" and argued that the \"necessity of some such arrangement in an industrial society is unquestioned—be it only in the interest of those who require protection against acts of desperation on the part of the needy\". Summarizing Hayek's views on the topic, journalist Nicholas Wapshott has argued that \"[Hayek] advocated mandatory universal health care and unemployment insurance, enforced, if not directly provided, by the state\". Critical theorist Bernard Harcourt has argued further that \"Hayek was adamant about this\". In 1944, Hayek wrote in \"The Road to Serfdom\": \n\nIn 1973, Hayek reiterated in \"Law, Legislation and Liberty\": There is no reason why in a free society government should not assure to all, protection against severe deprivation in the form of an assured minimum income, or a floor below which nobody need to descend. To enter into such an insurance against extreme misfortune may well be in the interest of all; or it may be felt to be a clear moral duty of all to assist, within the organised community, those who cannot help themselves. So long as such a uniform minimum income is provided outside the market to all those who, for any reason, are unable to earn in the market an adequate maintenance, this need not lead to a restriction of freedom, or conflict with the Rule of Law.\n\nArthur M. Diamond argues Hayek's problems arise when he goes beyond claims that can be evaluated within economic science. Diamond argued: The human mind, Hayek says, is not just limited in its ability to synthesize a vast array of concrete facts, it is also limited in its ability to give a deductively sound ground to ethics. Here is where the tension develops, for he also wants to give a reasoned moral defense of the free market. He is an intellectual skeptic who wants to give political philosophy a secure intellectual foundation. It is thus not too surprising that what results is confused and contradictory.\n\nChandran Kukathas argues that Hayek's defence of liberalism is unsuccessful because it rests on presuppositions that are incompatible. The unresolved dilemma of his political philosophy is how to mount a systematic defence of liberalism if one emphasizes the limited capacity of reason. Norman P. Barry similarly notes that the \"critical rationalism\" in Hayek's writings appears incompatible with \"a certain kind of fatalism, that we must wait for evolution to pronounce its verdict\". Milton Friedman and Anna Schwartz argue that the element of paradox exists in the views of Hayek. Noting Hayek's vigorous defense of \"invisible hand\" evolution that Hayek claimed has created better economic institutions than could be created by rational design, Friedman pointed out the irony that Hayek was then proposing to replace the monetary system thus created with a deliberate construct of his own design. John N. Gray summarized this view as \"his scheme for an ultra-liberal constitution was a prototypical version of the philosophy he had attacked\". Bruce Caldwell wrote that \"[i]f one is judging his work against the standard of whether he provided a finished political philosophy, Hayek clearly did not succeed\", although he thinks that \"economists may find Hayek's political writings useful\".\n\nHayek sent António de Oliveira Salazar a copy of \"The Constitution of Liberty\" (1960) in 1962. Hayek hoped that his book—this \"preliminary sketch of new constitutional principles\"—\"may assist\" Salazar \"in his endeavour to design a constitution which is proof against the abuses of democracy\".\n\nHayek visited Chile in the 1970s and 1980s during the Government Junta of general Augusto Pinochet and accepted being appointed Honorary Chairman of the Centro de Estudios Públicos, the think tank formed by the economists who transformed Chile into a free market economy. \n\nAsked about the liberal non-democratic rule by a Chilean interviewer, Hayek is translated from German to Spanish to English as having said the following: As long term institutions, I am totally against dictatorships. But a dictatorship may be a necessary system for a transitional period. [...] Personally I prefer a liberal dictatorship to democratic government devoid of liberalism. My personal impression – and this is valid for South America – is that in Chile, for example, we will witness a transition from a dictatorial government to a liberal government.\n\nIn a letter to the \"London Times\", he defended the Pinochet regime and said that he had \"not been able to find a single person even in much maligned Chile who did not agree that personal freedom was much greater under Pinochet than it had been under Allende\". Hayek admitted that \"it is not very likely that this will succeed, even if, at a particular point in time, it may be the only hope there is\", but he explained that \"[i]t is not certain hope, because it will always depend on the goodwill of an individual, and there are very few individuals one can trust. But if it is the sole opportunity which exists at a particular moment it may be the best solution despite this. And only if and when the dictatorial government is visibly directing its steps towards limited democracy\".\n\nFor Hayek, the distinction between authoritarianism and totalitarianism has much importance and he was at pains to emphasise his opposition to totalitarianism, noting that the concept of transitional dictatorship which he defended was characterised by authoritarianism, not totalitarianism. For example, when Hayek visited Venezuela in May 1981, he was asked to comment on the prevalence of totalitarian regimes in Latin America. In reply, Hayek warned against confusing \"totalitarianism with authoritarianism\" and said that he was unaware of \"any totalitarian governments in Latin America. The only one was Chile under Allende\". For Hayek, the word \"totalitarian\" signifies something very specific, namely the intention to \"organize the whole of society\" to attain a \"definite social goal\" which is stark in contrast to \"liberalism and individualism\".\n\nHayek's influence on the development of economics is widely acknowledged. With regard to the popularity of his Nobel acceptance lecture, Hayek is the second-most frequently cited economist (after Kenneth Arrow) in the Nobel lectures of the prize winners in economics. Hayek wrote critically there of the field of orthodox economics and neo-classical modelisation. A number of Nobel Laureates in economics, such as Vernon Smith and Herbert A. Simon, recognise Hayek as the greatest modern economist. Another Nobel winner, Paul Samuelson, believed that Hayek was worthy of his award, but nevertheless claimed that \"there were good historical reasons for fading memories of Hayek within the mainstream last half of the twentieth century economist fraternity. In 1931, Hayek's \"Prices and Production\" had enjoyed an ultra-short Byronic success. In retrospect hindsight tells us that its mumbo-jumbo about the period of production grossly misdiagnosed the macroeconomics of the 1927–1931 (and the 1931–2007) historical scene\". Despite this comment, Samuelson spent the last 50 years of his life obsessed with the problems of capital theory identified by Hayek and Böhm-Bawerk and Samuelson flatly judged Hayek to have been right and his own teacher Joseph Schumpeter to have been wrong on the central economic question of the 20th century, the feasibility of socialist economic planning in a production goods dominated economy.\n\nHayek is widely recognised for having introduced the time dimension to the equilibrium construction and for his key role in helping inspire the fields of growth theory, information economics and the theory of spontaneous order. The \"informal\" economics presented in Milton Friedman's massively influential popular work \"Free to Choose\" (1980) is explicitly Hayekian in its account of the price system as a system for transmitting and co-ordinating knowledge. This can be explained by the fact that Friedman taught Hayek's famous paper \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\" (1945) in his graduate seminars.\n\nIn 1944, he was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy after he was nominated for membership by Keynes.\n\nHarvard economist and former Harvard University President Lawrence Summers explains Hayek's place in modern economics: \"What's the single most important thing to learn from an economics course today? What I tried to leave my students with is the view that the invisible hand is more powerful than the [un]hidden hand. Things will happen in well-organized efforts without direction, controls, plans. That's the consensus among economists. That's the Hayek legacy\".\n\nBy 1947, Hayek was an organiser of the Mont Pelerin Society, a group of classical liberals who sought to oppose socialism. Hayek was also instrumental in the founding of the Institute of Economic Affairs, the right-wing libertarian and free-market think tank that inspired Thatcherism. He was in addition a member of the conservative and libertarian Philadelphia Society.\n\nHayek had a long-standing and close friendship with philosopher of science Karl Popper, who was also from Vienna. In a letter to Hayek in 1944, Popper stated: \"I think I have learnt more from you than from any other living thinker, except perhaps Alfred Tarski\". Popper dedicated his \"Conjectures and Refutations\" to Hayek. For his part, Hayek dedicated a collection of papers, \"Studies in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics\", to Popper and in 1982 said that \"ever since his \"Logik der Forschung\" first came out in 1934, I have been a complete adherent to his general theory of methodology\". Popper also participated in the inaugural meeting of the Mont Pelerin Society. Their friendship and mutual admiration do not change the fact that there are important differences between their ideas.\n\nHayek also played a central role in Milton Friedman's intellectual development. Friedman wrote: My interest in public policy and political philosophy was rather casual before I joined the faculty of the University of Chicago. Informal discussions with colleagues and friends stimulated a greater interest, which was reinforced by Friedrich Hayek's powerful book The Road to Serfdom, by my attendance at the first meeting of the Mont Pelerin Society in 1947, and by discussions with Hayek after he joined the university faculty in 1950. In addition, Hayek attracted an exceptionally able group of students who were dedicated to a libertarian ideology. They started a student publication, The New Individualist Review, which was the outstanding libertarian journal of opinion for some years. I served as an adviser to the journal and published a number of articles in it...\n\nHayek's greatest intellectual debt was to Carl Menger, who pioneered an approach to social explanation similar to that developed in Britain by Bernard Mandeville and the Scottish moral philosophers in the Scottish Enlightenment. He had a wide-reaching influence on contemporary economics, politics, philosophy, sociology, psychology and anthropology. For example, Hayek's discussion in \"The Road to Serfdom\" (1944) about truth, falsehood and the use of language influenced some later opponents of postmodernism.\n\nHayek received new attention in the 1980s and 1990s with the rise of conservative governments in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. After winning the United Kingdom general election, 1979, Margaret Thatcher appointed Keith Joseph, the director of the Hayekian Centre for Policy Studies, as her secretary of state for industry in an effort to redirect parliament's economic strategies. Likewise, David Stockman, Ronald Reagan's most influential financial official in 1981, was an acknowledged follower of Hayek.\n\nHayek wrote an essay, \"Why I Am Not a Conservative\" (included as an appendix to \"The Constitution of Liberty\"), in which he disparaged conservatism for its inability to adapt to changing human realities or to offer a positive political program, remarking: \"Conservatism is only as good as what it conserves\". Although he noted that modern day conservatism shares many opinions on economics with classical liberals, particularly a belief in the free market, he believed it is because conservatism wants to \"stand still\" whereas liberalism embraces the free market because it \"wants to go somewhere\". Hayek identified himself as a classical liberal, but noted that in the United States it had become almost impossible to use \"liberal\" in its original definition and the term \"libertarian\" has been used instead. In this text, Hayek also opposed conservatism for \"its hostility to internationalism and its proneness to a strident nationalism\", with its frequent association with imperialism.\n\nHayek also found libertarianism a term \"singularly unattractive\" and offered the term \"Old Whig\" (a phrase borrowed from Edmund Burke) instead. In his later life, he said: \"I am becoming a Burkean Whig\". However, Whiggery as a political doctrine had little affinity for classical political economy, the tabernacle of the Manchester School and William Gladstone. His essay has served as an inspiration to other liberal-minded economists wishing to distinguish themselves from conservative thinkers, for example James M. Buchanan's essay \"Why I, Too, Am Not a Conservative: The Normative Vision of Classical Liberalism\".\n\nHis opponents have attacked Hayek as a leading promoter of neoliberalism. A British journalist, Samuel Brittan, concluded in 2010 that \"Hayek's book [\"The Constitution of Liberty\"] is still probably the most comprehensive statement of the underlying ideas of the moderate free market philosophy espoused by neoliberals\". Brittan adds that although Raymond Plant (2009) comes out in the end against Hayek's doctrines, Plant gives \"The Constitution of Liberty\" a \"more thorough and fair-minded analysis than it has received even from its professed adherents\".\n\nIn \"Why F A Hayek is a Conservative\", British policy analyst Madsen Pirie claims Hayek mistakes the nature of the conservative outlook. Conservatives, he says, are not averse to change, but like Hayek they are highly averse to change being imposed on the social order by people in authority who think they know how to run things better. They wish to allow the market to function smoothly and give it the freedom to change and develop. It is an outlook, says Pirie, that Hayek and conservatives both share.\n\nHayek's ideas on spontaneous order and the importance of prices in dealing with the knowledge problem has inspired a debate on economic development and transition economies after the fall of the Berlin wall. For instance, Peter Boettke elaborated in detail on why reforming socialism failed and the Soviet Union broke down. Ronald McKinnon uses Hayekian ideas to describe challenges of transition from a centralized state and planned economy to a market economy. Former World Bank Chief Economist William Easterly emphasizes why foreign aid tends to have no effect at best in bestsellers such as White Man's Burden.\n\nSince the 2007–2008 financial crisis, there is a renewed interest in Hayek's core explanation of boom-and-bust cycles, which serves as an alternative explanation to that of the savings glut as launched by Bernanke. Economists at the Bank of International Settlements, e.g. William White, emphasize the importance of Hayekian insights and the impact of monetary policies and credit growth as root causes of financial cycles. A. Hoffmann and G. Schnabl provide an international perspective and explain recurring financial cycles in the world economy as consequence of gradual interest rate cuts led by the central banks in the large advanced economies since the 1980s. N. Cachanosky outlines the impact of American monetary policy on the production structure in Latin America.\n\nIn line with Hayek, an increasing number of contemporary researchers sees expansionary monetary policies and too low interest rates as mal-incentives and main drivers of financial crises in general and the subprime market crisis in particular. To prevent problems caused by monetary policy, Hayekian and Austrian economists discuss alternatives to current policies and organizations. For instance, L. White favors free banking in the spirit of Hayek's \"Denationalization of Money\".\n\nHayek's ideas find their way into the discussion of the post-Great Recession issues of secular stagnation. Monetary policy and mounting regulation is argued to have undermined the innovative forces of the market economies. Quantitative easing following the financial crises is argued to have not only conserved structural distortions in the economy, leading to a fall in trend-growth. It also created new distortions and contributes to distributional conflicts.\n\nIn August 1926, Hayek married Helen Berta Maria von Fritsch (1901–1960), a secretary at the civil service office where Hayek worked, on the rebound upon hearing of his cousin's marriage. They had two children together. Upon the close of World War II, Hayek restarted a relationship with his cousin, who had married since they first met, but kept it secret until 1948. Hayek and Fritsch divorced in July 1950 and he married his cousin Helene Bitterlich (1900–1996) just a few weeks later after moving to Arkansas to take advantage of permissive divorce laws. His wife and children were offered settlement and compensation for accepting a divorce. The divorce caused some scandal at LSE where certain academics refused to have anything to do with Hayek. In a 1978 interview to explain his actions, Hayek stated that he was unhappy in his first marriage and as his wife would not grant him a divorce he had to enforce it. He rarely visited his children after the divorce.\n\nHayek was brought up in non-religious setting and decided that he was an agnostic from age 15. He died in 1992 in Freiburg, Germany, where he had lived since leaving Chicago in 1961.\n\nEven after his death, Hayek's intellectual presence is noticeable, especially in the universities where he had taught, namely the London School of Economics, the University of Chicago and the University of Freiburg. A number of tributes have resulted, many established posthumously:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5208065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208065", "title": "Gemini house", "text": "Gemini house\n\nThe Gemini house is a prototype design for a house that uses solar energy and efficient design.\n\nRoland Mösl wrote the house's concept in autumn 1991. The name expresses a design goal: The real estate used should serve two purposes simultaneously -- living and generating solar electricity. Ten years later, in 2001, the (up to now) only prototype was built in Weiz, a small town north of Graz in Austria as part of a national exhibition about energy. The cylindric house rotates to follow the sun. It is equipped with up to 150m² of photovoltaic panels. Extreme thermal insulation and heat recovery from waste air are also included.\n\n"}
{"id": "24103304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24103304", "title": "Glossary of HVAC terms", "text": "Glossary of HVAC terms\n\nHVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) is a major subdiscipline of mechanical engineering. The goal of HVAC design is to balance indoor environmental comfort with other factors such as installation cost, ease of maintenance, and energy efficiency. The discipline of HVAC includes a large number of specialized terms and acronyms, many of which are summarized in this glossary.\n\nThe SEER (Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio) rating of a unit is the cooling output during a typical cooling-season divided by the total electric energy input during the same period. The higher the unit's SEER rating the more energy efficient it is.\n\n"}
{"id": "194431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194431", "title": "Henry Ireton", "text": "Henry Ireton\n\nHenry Ireton (1611 – 26 November 1651) was an English general in the Parliamentary army during the English Civil War, the son-in-law of Oliver Cromwell.\n\nIreton was the eldest son of German Ireton of Attenborough, Nottinghamshire, and was baptised in St Mary's Church on 3 November 1611. He became a gentleman commoner of Trinity College, Oxford in 1626, graduated BA in 1629 and entered the Middle Temple the same year.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Civil War, he joined the parliamentary army, fighting at the Battle of Edgehill in October 1642, and at the Battle of Gainsborough in July 1643. He was made deputy-governor of the Isle of Ely by Cromwell and served under Earl of Manchester in the Yorkshire campaign and at the second Battle of Newbury, afterwards supporting Cromwell in his accusations of incompetency against the Earl.\n\nOn the night before the Battle of Naseby, in June 1645, Ireton succeeded in surprising the Royalist army and captured many prisoners. The next day, on the suggestion of Cromwell, he was made commissary-general and appointed to the command of the left wing, Cromwell himself commanding the right. The wing under Ireton was completely broken by the impetuous charge of Rupert and Ireton was wounded and taken prisoner, but Cromwell charged and successfully routed the Royalists, freeing prisoners including Ireton.\n\nIreton was at the siege of Bristol in September 1645 and took part in the subsequent campaign that succeeded in overthrowing the royal cause. On 30 October 1645 Ireton entered parliament as member for Appleby. On 15 June 1646, during the siege of Oxford he married Bridget Cromwell, eldest daughter of Oliver Cromwell. The marriage brought Ireton's career into parallel with Cromwell's.\n\nIreton was initially a moderate. At the Putney Debates he opposed extremism, disliked the views of the Republicans and the Levellers, which he considered impractical and dangerous to the foundations of society, and wished to retain the constitution of King, Lords and Commons. He argued for these in the negotiations of the army with Parliament, and in the conferences with the king, being the person chiefly entrusted with the drawing up of the army proposals, including the manifesto called \"The Heads of the Proposals\" which proposed a constitutional monarchy. He tried to prevent the breach between the army and parliament, but when it happened, he supported the negotiations with the king till his actions made him unpopular.\n\nIreton finally became convinced of the hopelessness of dealing with King Charles, and, after the king's flight to the Isle of Wight, treated his further proposals with coldness and urged the parliament to establish an administration without him. Ireton served under Thomas Fairfax in the second civil war in the campaigns, in Kent and Essex, although it was Fairfax, as Lord General, and not Ireton as is sometimes believed, who was responsible for the executions of Sir Charles Lucas and Sir George Lisle at Colchester. After the rejection by the king of the last offers of the army, Ireton zealously supported bringing him to trial. He wrote the Army's statement about the regicide—the Remonstrance of the Army—with Hugh Peters. He was active in the choice to purge rather than reelect Parliament and supported the second Leveller \"Agreement of the People\". He sat on the king's trial and was one of the commissioners who signed the death warrant.\n\nIreton's regiment was chosen by lot to accompany Cromwell in his Irish campaign. Ireton arrived in Dublin two days after Cromwell on 17 August 1649, with 77 ships full of troops and supplies. Ireton was appointed major-general and after the conquest of the south of Ireland, Lord President of Munster. He went over with John Cook with a brief to reform the law of Ireland, to anglicise it, and to make it a model for a new settlement of English law.\n\nIn May 1650 Cromwell was recalled to England to command a Parliamentary force preparing to invade Scotland, and Ireton assumed command of the New Model Army in Ireland with the title and powers of Lord Deputy to complete the conquest of the country. This he proceeded to do, becoming noted as much by the savagery of his methods as for his military skill. By the middle of 1650 Ireton and his commanders faced two problems. One was the capture of the remaining cities held by the Irish Confederate and Royalists forces. The other was an escalating guerrilla war in the countryside as Irish fighters called tories attacked his supply lines. Ireton appealed to the English Parliament to publish lenient surrender terms for Irish Catholics, in order to end their resistance, but this was refused.\n\nHis first action after the refusal was to mount a counter-guerrilla expedition into the Wicklow Mountains early in June 1650, in order to secure his lines of supply for the Siege of Waterford in Ireland's southeast. Ireton then blockaded Waterford into surrender by August 1650. Ireton systematically constructed trenches to bring his siege guns within range of the walls and stationed a Parliamentary fleet off the city to prevent its re-supply. Thomas Preston surrendered Waterford after a three-month siege. Ireton then advanced to Limerick by October, but had to call off the siege due to cold and bad weather. Early in 1651 Ireton ordered that areas harbouring the guerrillas should be systematically stripped of food – a scorched earth policy that caused a famine in Ireland by the end of the year. Ireton returned to Limerick in June 1651 and besieged the city for five months until it surrendered in October 1651. At the same time, Galway was under siege by Parliamentarian forces, and Ireton rode to inspect the command of Charles Coote, who was blockading that city. The physical strain of his command took hold on Ireton, however, and he fell ill.\n\nAfter the capture of Limerick, Ireton had dignitaries of Limerick hanged for their defence of the city, including an Alderman, Bishop (Turlough O'Brien) Terence Albert O'Brien and an English Royalist officer, Colonel Fennell. He also wanted the Irish commander, Hugh Dubh O'Neill hanged, but Edmund Ludlow cancelled the order after Ireton's death.\n\nIreton fell ill of the plague that was raging through the town, and died on 26 November. His loss reportedly \"struck a great sadness into Cromwell\" and he was considered a great loss to the administration. There are various anecdotes about his demise from Irish ecclesiastical and English royalist sources. Thus, his death has been depicted as divine punishment for the execution of Bishop O'Brien, who prior to his death had called upon Ireton to answer at God's judgment seat for his murders; the Hibernica Dominicana claims that on his death bed Ireton was \"privately muttering to himself 'I never gave the aid of my counsel towards the murder of that bishop; never, never; it was the council of war did it… I wish I had never seen this popish bishop'.\" Philip Warwick stated that among Ireton's last words were \"blood! blood! I must have more blood!\". \n\nAt Ireton's funeral, in Westminster Abbey, John Watson and others wore new tabards that replaced the royal arms with the new arms of the commonwealth.\n\nOn 30 January 1661, following the Restoration of the English monarchy of 1660, Charles II had Ireton's corpse exhumed from Westminster and mutilated in a posthumous execution, along with those of Cromwell and John Bradshaw, in retribution for signing his father's death warrant. The date was symbolic, being the 12th anniversary of the execution of Charles I.\n\nBy his wife, Bridget Cromwell, Ireton left one son, Henry Ireton (c.1652–1711), and four daughters, one of whom, Bridget Bendish (she married Thomas Bendish in 1670) is said to have compromised herself in the Rye House Plot of 1683, as did Henry. Ireton's widow Bridget afterwards married General Charles Fleetwood. Another daughter Elizabeth married Thomas Polhill, their son was David Polhill.\n\nIn the 1970 film \"Cromwell\" starring Richard Harris and Alec Guinness, Michael Jayston plays Ireton as a subtle but well-meaning manipulator who hates Charles I and pushes Cromwell into actions which Cromwell at first considers neither desirable nor possible but then pursues all the way. This version of Ireton is ready to denounce the King and plunge England into civil war before Cromwell becomes convinced that this is a necessary step. In the film, he and Cromwell are also among the five members whom Charles I attempts to arrest on the eve of the war (when in fact they were not) and, after the King is executed, is upbraided by Cromwell as being too ambitious. There is no mention in the film of Ireton marrying Cromwell's daughter.\n\nIreton is portrayed as a minor character in Rosemary Sutcliff's 1953 historical fiction novel \"Simon\".\n\nIreton is the main character in John Attenborough's 1987 historical fiction novel \"Destiny Our Choice\", which gives a generally positive view of Ireton, claiming that he was influential in saving the life of Hugh O'Neill after the Siege of Limerick in 1650-51.\n\nThe town of Ireton, Iowa was named after Henry Ireton.\n\nIreton Road in Colchester was named after Henry Ireton. Ireton Road adjoins Honywood Road, named after Sir Thomas Honywood who led the Essex forces at the Siege of Colchester under the command of Thomas Fairfax.\nIreton Road in Market Harborough was named after Henry Ireton.\nIreton Way is now a very straight part of the A142 between Ely and Chatteris, built by him when he was commanding East Anglian forces as a causeway across the flooded Fens around the Ouse river to rush troops and supplies over when resisting Royalist attack from Lincolnshire and the Midlands.\nHis portrait continues to hang in the dining hall of Trinity College, Oxford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38812258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38812258", "title": "Hoffman's Course of Legal Study", "text": "Hoffman's Course of Legal Study\n\nA Course of Legal Study, addressed to Students, and the Profession generally is a book by David Hoffman.\n\nIn 1847, J G Marvin said:\n\n"}
{"id": "19398507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19398507", "title": "Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994", "text": "Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994\n\nIn September 1994, President Bill Clinton signed into law the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, written by US Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy (D-Mass). The law requires certain disclosures and clamps restrictions on lenders of high-cost loans.\n\nImplemented via Regulation Z at 12 CFR 226.32, it only applies to non-purchase-money transactions.\nThe law gives the Federal Reserve Board the power to administer the act and to adjust the implementing regulations. Critics of Alan Greenspan argue that he failed to properly use these powers when subprime mortgage problems became apparent in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "20222181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20222181", "title": "IRZ", "text": "IRZ\n\nThe German Foundation for International Legal Cooperation (Deutsche Stiftung für Internationale Rechtliche Zusammenarbeit e.V. or IRZ) was set up in 1992 on the initiative of the German Federal Minister of Justice, Dr. Klaus Kinkel, as a registered non-profit association. Its headquarters are in Bonn, with an additional office in Berlin.\n\nThe IRZ works with institutions involved in legal and judicial reform in almost 30 partner states. This cooperation covers the states of Eastern and South-East Europe, the MENA region and the South Caucasus, central Asia and Vietnam.\n\nWithin the framework of providing advice on legislation, the IRZ organises expert discussions, helps with the development of draft legislation and promotes the continued training and education of law professionals from all kinds of disciplines. To this end, seminars, workshops and conferences are organised in the relevant partner states. The main focus here is on national legal reforms and German and European law. Working visits, work placements and job shadowing are also made available in Germany for training and education purposes, allowing a direct, practice-oriented exchange of experiences with German experts. The IRZ also does everything it can to support law students by working with universities, providing supplementary studies, seminars and lectures.\n\nThe IRZ is supported and assisted by its members and the board of trustees. These include personalities from the worlds of politics, business, management, academia and legal associations and companies. The IRZ can also rely on support from numerous other experienced experts from a wide variety of specialist areas of the law. This means that the IRZ can guarantee specialist expert advice and non-bureaucratic, fast, flexible and coordinated support over the long term for its partner states.\n\nTogether with its partners, the IRZ develops and consolidates:\n\nThe IRZ is commissioned by the German Federal Government and is therefore primarily financed by the budget of the German Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection and by project funding from the German Federal Foreign Office. The IRZ also carries out projects as part of the European Union Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations.\n\n"}
{"id": "7712095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7712095", "title": "Information Technology Act, 2000", "text": "Information Technology Act, 2000\n\nThe Information Technology Act, 2000 (also known as ITA-2000, or the IT Act) is an Act of the Indian Parliament (No 21 of 2000) notified on 17 October 2000. It is the primary law in India dealing with cybercrime and electronic commerce. It is based on the \"United Nations Model Law on Electronic Commerce 1996\" (UNCITRAL Model) recommended by the General Assembly of United Nations by a resolution dated 30 January 1997.\n\nThe bill was passed in the budget session of 2000 and signed by President K. R. Narayanan on 9 May 2000. The bill was finalised by group of officials headed by then Minister of Information Technology Pramod Mahajan.\n\nThe original Act contained 94 sections, divided in 13 chapters and 4 schedules. The laws apply to the whole of India. Persons of other nationalities can also be indicted under the law, if the crime involves a computer or network located in India.\n\nThe Act provides legal framework for electronic governance by giving recognition to electronic records and digital signatures. The formations of Controller of Certifying Authorities was directed by the Act, to regulate issuing of digital signatures. It also defines cyber crimes and prescribed penalties for them. It also established a Cyber Appellate Tribunal to resolve disputes rising from this new law. The Act also amended various sections of Indian Penal Code, 1860, Indian Evidence Act, 1872, Banker's Book Evidence Act, 1891, and Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 to make them compliant with new technologies.\n\nA major amendment was made in 2008. It introduced the Section 66A which penalized sending of \"offensive messages\". It also introduced the Section 69, which gave authorities the power of \"interception or monitoring or decryption of any information through any computer resource\". It also introduced for child porn, cyber terrorism and voyeurism. It was passed on 22 December 2008 without any debate in Lok Sabha. The next day it was passed by the Rajya Sabha. It was signed by the then President (Pratibha Patil) on 5 February 2009.\n\nList of offences and the corresponding penalties:\n\n\n\nFrom its establishment as an amendment to the original act in 2008, Section 66A attracted controversy over its unconstitutional nature:\n\nIn December 2012, P Rajeev, a Rajya Sabha member from Kerala, tried to pass a resolution seeking to amend the Section 66A. He was supported by D. Bandyopadhyay, Gyan Prakash Pilania, Basavaraj Patil Sedam, Narendra Kumar Kashyap, Rama Chandra Khuntia and Baishnab Charan Parida. P Rajeev pointed that cartoons and editorials allowed in traditional media, were being censored in the new media. He also said that law was barely debated before being passed in December 2008.\n\nRajeev Chandrasekhar suggested the 66A should only apply to person to person communication pointing to a similar section under the Indian Post Office Act, 1898. Shantaram Naik opposed any changes, saying that the misuse of law was sufficient to warrant changes. Then Minister for Communications and Information Technology Kapil Sibal defended the existing law, saying that similar laws existed in US and UK. He also said that a similar provision existed under Indian Post Office Act, 1898. However, P Rajeev said that the UK dealt only with communication from person to person.\n\nIn November 2012, IPS officer Amitabh Thakur and his wife social activist Nutan Thakur, filed a petition in the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court claiming that the Section 66A violated the freedom of speech guaranteed in the Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. They said that the section was vague and frequently misused.\n\nAlso in November 2012, a Delhi-based law student, Shreya Singhal, filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court of India. She argued that the Section 66A was vaguely phrased, as result it violated Article 14, 19 (1)(a) and Article 21 of the Constitution. The PIL was accepted on 29 November 2012. A similar petition was also filed by the founder of MouthShut.com, Faisal Farooqui, and NGO Common Cause represented by Prashant Bhushan\nIn August 2014, the Supreme Court asked the central government to respond to petitions filed by Mouthshut.com and later petition filed by the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) which claimed that the IT Act gave the government power to arbitrarily remove user-generated content.\n\nOn 24 March 2015, the Supreme Court of India, gave the verdict that Section 66A is unconstitutional in entirety. The court said that Section 66A of IT Act 2000 is \"arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately invades the right of free speech\" provided under Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India. But the Court turned down a plea to strike down sections 69A and 79 of the Act, which deal with the procedure and safeguards for blocking certain websites. \n\nThe data privacy rules introduced in the Act in 2011 have been described as too strict by some Indian and US firms. The rules require firms to obtain written permission from customers before collecting and using their personal data. This has affected US firms which outsource to Indian companies. However, some companies have welcomed the strict rules, saying it will remove fears of outsourcing to Indian companies.\n\nThe Section 69 allows intercepting any information and ask for information decryption. To refuse decryption is an offence. The Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 allows the government to tap phones. But, according to a 1996 Supreme Court verdict the government can tap phones only in case of a \"public emergency\". But, there is no such restriction on Section 69.\n\nOn 2 April 2015, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis revealed to the state assembly that a new law was being framed to replace the repealed Section 66A. Fadnavis was replying to a query Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe. Gorhe had said that repeal of the law would encourage online miscreants and asked whether the state government would frame a law to this regard. Fadnavis said that the previous law had resulted in no convictions, so the law would be framed such that it would be strong and result in convictions.\n\nOn 13 April 2015, it announced that the Ministry of Home Affairs would form a committee of officials from the Intelligence Bureau, Central Bureau of Investigation, National Investigation Agency, Delhi Police and ministry itself to produce a new legal framework. This step was reportedly taken after complaints from intelligence agencies that, they were no longer able to counter online posts that involved national security matter or incite people to commit an offence, such as online recruitment for ISIS. Former Minister of State with the Ministry of Information Technology, Milind Deora has supported a new \"unambiguous section to replace 66A\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11180304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11180304", "title": "Inter-American Convention Against Terrorism", "text": "Inter-American Convention Against Terrorism\n\nThe Inter-American Convention Against Terrorism was adopted by the member countries of the Organization of American States (OAS) at its General Assembly held in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 3 June 2002. The Convention, negotiated pursuant to a mandate from the OAS Foreign Ministers shortly after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 in the United States, reflects the Americas' hemispheric-wide commitment to enhancing cooperation in the fight against terrorism.\n\nIn brief, the Convention:\n\n, the Convention has been signed by 33 of the 34 active member states and ratified by 24.\n\nConvention oversight is the task of the OAS's Inter-American Committee Against Terrorism.\n\n"}
{"id": "959070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959070", "title": "Jim Henson Pictures", "text": "Jim Henson Pictures\n\nJim Henson Pictures is an American film studio, owned by The Jim Henson Company and operated by Brian and Lisa Henson. It was founded on July 21, 1995, as a joint venture between Jim Henson Productions and Sony Pictures Entertainment. However, the company's films suffered from poor box office performances, which led to Sony breaking from the joint venture after the release of \"The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland\"; further films were released under the name of The Jim Henson Company, although they were credited under their former name on \"Good Boy!\" in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21123473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21123473", "title": "Joseph Henry Beale", "text": "Joseph Henry Beale\n\nJoseph Henry Beale (October 12, 1861 – January 20, 1943) was an American law professor at Harvard Law School and served as the first dean of University of Chicago Law School. He was notable for his advancement of legal formalism, as well as his work in Conflict of Laws, Corporations, and Criminal Law.\n\nBeale was born in the neighborhood of Dorchester in Boston, Massachusetts. He attended Harvard University as an undergraduate, distinguishing himself in classics and mathematics. He graduated fifth in his class in 1882.\n\nHe studied law at Harvard Law School. Upon graduation, he declined an offer to clerk for the United States Supreme Court, and opened his own practice.\n\nBeale worked for several years in his own practice, authoring or co-authoring several treatises during this time, including an influential treatise on damages. Based upon the reputation of this treatise, Beale was offered the post of assistant professor at Harvard Law School in 1892.\n\nDuring his career at Harvard Law School, Beale was a renowned and influential legal scholar. One of Beale's most famous works of scholarship was his 1916 essay entitled \"The Nature of Law\" which appeared in the treatise \"Treatise on the Conflict of Laws.\" Beale was best known, along with Christopher Columbus Langdell, as an influential proponent of the model of legal thought known as legal formalism. Harvard Law School awards the Joseph H. Beale prize to the student who obtains the highest grade during the academic year in the course on Conflict of Laws.\n\nIn 1902, at the request of William Rainey Harper, first President of the University of Chicago, for assistance from Harvard's faculty in setting up a law school at Chicago, Beale was \"lent\" by Harvard to become the first dean of the University of Chicago Law School. During his two-year tenure (a leave of absence from Harvard), Beale hired numerous faculty and established Chicago's law school as \"one of the best in the country,\" garnering Beale honorary degrees from Chicago and the University of Michigan. Chicago continues to award the Joseph Henry Beale prize for outstanding performance in legal research and writing to first-year students every year. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1906.\n\nBeale retired from teaching in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "37717008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37717008", "title": "Jus scriptum", "text": "Jus scriptum\n\nJus scriptum or ius scriptum is Latin for \"written law\". The Roman lawyers saw this law as a law issued by public authorities with legislative function. Such law was typically redacted in writing. In later Roman law and in present-day law written laws (\"leges\") which are made by legislative organs of a state predicted by a constitution are considered \"jus scriptum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46612960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46612960", "title": "Keech v Metropolitan Health Service", "text": "Keech v Metropolitan Health Service\n\nKeech v Metropolitan Health Service was a court case decided in the Federal Court of Australia in which the exemption relating to acts of a State or Territory contained within the Age Discrimination Act 2004 was considered.\n\nThe applicant, Keech, was injured at work at the age of 66. RiskCover, the insurance company of the Metropolitan Health Service, accepted liability and paid compensation under the \"Workers’ Compensation and Injury Management Act 1981 (WA)\" (the WA Act). The WA Act provided different schemes of payment whereby workers injured before attaining the age of 64 would be entitled to compensation until they turned 65, and workers injured after attaining this age would be entitled to compensation for a year after the date of the injury.\n\nKeech argued that by paying her compensation for the period prescribed by the WA Act, the Metropolitan Health Service had treated her less favourably than a younger employee who incurred a workplace injury at the same time as she did. She also argued that the conduct of the Metropolitan Health Service was not exempt from the Age Discrimination Act as it was not in direct compliance with the WA Act - that is, the WA Act prescribed a date at which entitlements to compensation could cease, but it did not oblige employers to stop paying at this time.\n\nSiopis J considered that the Metropolitan Health Service's conduct was unlikely to constitute age discrimination but found it unnecessary to finally determine this issue, because in any case they had directly complied with the WA Act. His Honour interpreted the WA Act as imposing an obligation on employers to pay compensation for a prescribed period and the respondent had directly complied with this requirement. As such, the employer's conduct was exempt from the Age Discrimination Act.\n\n\"This article contains content derived from the October 2011 edition of \"Federal Discrimination Law\", produced by the Australian Human Rights Commission, which is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Australia License.\"\n"}
{"id": "924166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=924166", "title": "LGBT rights by country or territory", "text": "LGBT rights by country or territory\n\nLaws affecting lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people vary greatly by country or territory — encompassing everything from the legal recognition of same-sex marriage to the death penalty for homosexuality.\n\nLaws that affect LGBT people include, but are not limited to, the following:\n\n\nNotably, 25 countries, all of which being developed democracies or developing democracies, recognized same-sex marriage as of 2018. By contrast, 10 countries or jurisdictions, all of which are Islamic and ruled by sharia, were imposing the death penalty for homosexuality.\n\nIn 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council passed its first resolution recognizing LGBT rights, following which the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a report documenting violations of the rights of LGBT people, including hate crimes, criminalization of homosexual activity, and discrimination. Following the issuance of the report, the United Nations urged all countries which had not yet done so to enact laws protecting basic LGBT rights.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, although most \"belligerent nations\" were strongly influenced by their women, the Celts were unusual because their men openly preferred male lovers (\"Politics\" II 1269b). H. D. Rankin in \"Celts and the Classical World\" notes that \"Athenaeus echoes this comment (603a) and so does Ammianus (30.9). It seems to be the general opinion of antiquity.\" In book XIII of his \"Deipnosophists\", the Roman Greek rhetorician and grammarian Athenaeus, repeating assertions made by Diodorus Siculus in the 1st century BC (\"Bibliotheca historica\" 5:32), wrote that Celtic women were beautiful but that the men preferred to sleep together. Diodorus went further, stating that \"the young men will offer themselves to strangers and are insulted if the offer is refused\". Rankin argues that the ultimate source of these assertions is likely to be Poseidonius and speculates that these authors may be recording \"some kind of bonding ritual ... which requires abstinence from women at certain times\".\n\nThroughout Hindu and Vedic texts there are many descriptions of saints, demigods, and even the Supreme Lord transcending gender norms and manifesting multiple combinations of sex and gender. There are several instances in ancient Indian epic poetry of same sex depictions and unions by gods and goddesses. There are several stories depicting love between those of the same sex, especially among kings and queens. Kamasutra, the ancient Indian treatise on love talks about feelings for same sexes. Transsexuals are also venerated e.g. Lord Vishnu as Mohini and Lord Shiva as Ardhanarishwara (which means half woman).\n\nThe ancient Law of Moses (the Torah) forbids men lying with men (intercourse) in Leviticus 18 and gives a story of attempted homosexual rape in Genesis in the story of Sodom and Gomorrah, the cities being soon destroyed after that. The death penalty was prescribed. In Deuteronomy 22:5, cross-dressing is condemned as being \"abominable\".\n\nIn Persia homosexuality and homoerotic expressions were tolerated in numerous public places, from monasteries and seminaries to taverns, military camps, bathhouses, and coffee houses. In the early Safavid era (1501–1723), male houses of prostitution (\"amrad khane\") were legally recognized and paid taxes. Persian poets, such as Sa'di (d. 1291), Hafiz (d. 1389), and Jami (d. 1492), wrote poems replete with homoerotic allusions. The two most commonly documented forms were commercial sex with transgender young males or males enacting transgender roles exemplified by the köçeks and Sufi spiritual practices in which the practitioner admired the form of a beautiful boy in order to enter ecstatic states and glimpse the beauty of God.\n\nIn Assyrian society, sex crimes were punished identically whether they were homosexual or heterosexual. An individual faced no punishment for penetrating someone of equal social class, a cult prostitute, or with someone whose gender roles were not considered solidly masculine. Such sexual relations were even seen as good fortune, with an Akkadian tablet, the \"Šumma ālu\", reading, \"If a man copulates with his equal from the rear, he becomes the leader among his peers and brothers\". However, homosexual relationships with fellow soldiers, slaves, royal attendants, or those where a social better was submissive or penetrated, were treated as bad omens.\n\nMiddle Assyrian Law Codes dating 1075 BC has a particularly harsh law for homosexuality in the military, which reads: \"If a man have intercourse with his brother-in-arms, they shall turn him into a eunuch.\" A similar law code reads, \"If a seignior lay with his neighbor, when they have prosecuted him (and) convicted him, they shall lie with him (and) turn him into a eunuch\". This law code condemns a situation that involves homosexual rape. Any Assyrian male could visit a prostitute or lie with another male, just as long as false rumors or forced sex were not involved with another male.\n\nThe \"conquest mentality\" of the ancient Romans shaped Roman homosexual practices. In the Roman Republic, a citizen's political liberty was defined in part by the right to preserve his body from physical compulsion or use by others; for the male citizen to submit his body to the giving of pleasure was considered servile. As long as a man played the penetrative role, it was socially acceptable and considered natural for him to have same-sex relations, without a perceived loss of his masculinity or social standing. The bodies of citizen youths were strictly off-limits, and the \"Lex Scantinia\" imposed penalties on those who committed a sex crime \"(stuprum)\" against a freeborn male minor. Acceptable same-sex partners were males excluded from legal protections as citizens: slaves, male prostitutes, and the \"infames\", entertainers or others who might be technically free but whose lifestyles set them outside the law.\n\n\"Homosexual\" and \"heterosexual\" were thus not categories of Roman sexuality, and no words exist in Latin that would precisely translate these concepts. A male citizen who willingly performed oral sex or received anal sex was disparaged, but there is only limited evidence of legal penalties against these men, who were presumably \"homosexual\" in the modern sense. In courtroom and political rhetoric, charges of effeminacy and passive sexual behaviors were directed particularly at \"democratic\" politicians \"(populares)\" such as Julius Caesar and Mark Antony.\n\nRoman law addressed the rape of a male citizen as early as the 2nd century BC, when a ruling was issued in a case that may have involved a man of same-sex orientation. It was ruled that even a man who was \"disreputable and questionable\" had the same right as other citizens not to have his body subjected to forced sex. A law probably dating to the dictatorship of Julius Caesar defined rape as forced sex against \"boy, woman, or anyone\"; the rapist was subject to execution, a rare penalty in Roman law. A male classified as \"infamis\", such as a prostitute or actor, could not as a matter of law be raped, nor could a slave, who was legally classified as property; the slave's owner, however, could prosecute the rapist for property damage.\n\nIn the Roman army of the Republic, sex among fellow soldiers violated the decorum against intercourse with citizens and was subject to harsh penalties, including death, as a violation of military discipline. The Greek historian Polybius (2nd century BC) lists deserters, thieves, perjurers, and \"those who in youth have abused their persons\" as subject to the \"fustuarium\", clubbing to death. Ancient sources are most concerned with the effects of sexual harassment by officers, but the young soldier who brought an accusation against his superior needed to show that he had not willingly taken the passive role or prostituted himself. Soldiers were free to have relations with their male slaves; the use of a fellow citizen-soldier's body was prohibited, not homosexual behaviors per se. By the late Republic and throughout the Imperial period, there is increasing evidence that men whose lifestyle marked them as \"homosexual\" in the modern sense served openly.\n\nAlthough Roman law did not recognize marriage between men, and in general Romans regarded marriage as a heterosexual union with the primary purpose of producing children, in the early Imperial period some male couples were celebrating traditional marriage rites. Juvenal remarks with disapproval that his friends often attended such ceremonies. The emperor Nero had two marriages to men, once as the bride (with a freedman Pythagoras) and once as the groom. His consort Sporus appeared in public as Nero's wife wearing the regalia that was customary for the Roman empress.\n\nApart from measures to protect the prerogatives of citizens, the prosecution of homosexuality as a general crime began in the 3rd century of the Christian era when male prostitution was banned by Philip the Arab. By the end of the 4th century, after the Roman Empire had come under Christian rule, passive homosexuality was punishable by burning. \"Death by sword\" was the punishment for a \"man coupling like a woman\" under the Theodosian Code. Under Justinian, all same-sex acts, passive or active, no matter who the partners, were declared contrary to nature and punishable by death.\n\nE. E. Evans-Pritchard recorded that in the past male Azande warriors in the northern Congo routinely took on young male lovers between the ages of twelve and twenty, who helped with household tasks and participated in intercrural sex with their older husbands. The practice had died out by the early 20th century, after Europeans had gained control of African countries, but was recounted to Evans-Pritchard by the elders to whom he spoke.\n\nIn feudal Japan, homosexuality was recognized, between equals (bi-do), in terms of pederasty (wakashudo), and in terms of prostitution. The younger partner in a pederastic relationship often was expected to make the first move; the opposite was true in ancient Greece. In religious circles, same-sex love spread to the warrior (samurai) class, where it was customary for a boy in the \"wakashū\" age category to undergo training in the martial arts by apprenticing to a more experienced adult man. The man was permitted, if the boy agreed, to take the boy as his lover until he came of age; this relationship, often formalized in a \"brotherhood contract\", was expected to be exclusive, with both partners swearing to take no other (male) lovers. The Samurai period was one in which homosexuality was seen as particularly positive. Later when Japanese society became pacified, the middle classes adopted many of the practices of the warrior class.\n\nAnthropologists Stephen Murray and Will Roscoe reported that women in Lesotho engaged in socially sanctioned \"long term, erotic relationships\" called \"motsoalle.\"\n\nIn Papua New Guinea, same-sex relationships were an integral part of the culture of certain tribes until the middle of the last century. The Etoro and Marind-anim for example, even viewed heterosexuality as wasteful and celebrated homosexuality instead. They believed that in sharing semen, they are sharing their life force, yet women simply wasted this force any time they didn't get pregnant after sex. In many traditional Melanesian cultures a prepubertal boy would be paired with an older adolescent who would become his mentor and who would \"inseminate\" him (orally, anally, or topically, depending on the tribe) over a number of years in order for the younger to also reach puberty.\n\n"}
{"id": "34402893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34402893", "title": "Legal financing industry", "text": "Legal financing industry\n\nThe legal financing industry provides non-recourse legal financing to litigants. Sometimes this financing is funded from outside of the firm or from individual lawyer's finances, and then funneled through a third-party company. Financing is often for plaintiffs involved in personal injury, workers' compensation, and civil rights. The industry provides litigants with cash in a lump sum form upfront in exchange for a share of the litigant's future settlement or trial award. While the litigant awaits the resolution of their case, the legal financing industry provides for immediate relief from financial burdens such as mortgage payments, rent, medical bills, educational bills, daily expenses, or even legal fees.\n\nLegal financing is a fairly recent phenomenon, beginning on or around 1997. Lending to plaintiffs began as part of a trend in which banks, hedge funds, and private investors put money into other people’s lawsuits. While every case is different, legal financing companies generally only advance 10% to 15% of the likely settlement. On the other hand, legal financing companies charge high fees for the advances that they provide.\n\nThe American Legal Financing Association (ALFA) was established in New York City as a nonprofit in July 2004 and it represents about 20 legal funding companies nationwide for personal injury victims. The organization's main goals are to establish voluntary standards for the legal financing industry, and to advocate on behalf of the industry.\n\nAs of 2011 the industry was lending plaintiffs over $100 million a year and remained unregulated in most states. Commentators have noted that the industry is free to ignore laws that protect consumers who borrow from other kinds of lenders. The industry, however, asserts that they are not lenders because plaintiffs are not required to repay the money if they lose their cases. The industry refers to the transactions as investments, advances, financing or funding, as opposed to loans. This is an argument that has persuaded regulators in many states, including New York, that lawsuit lenders are not subject to existing lending laws. The companies and lawyers who support the industry have also lobbied state legislatures to establish rules like licensing and disclosure requirements.\n\nIn 2003, the Ohio Supreme Court struck down a legal financing agreement. A legal financing company advanced $7,000 to a woman injured in a car accident. The woman prevailed, and the company was allowed to claim over $30,000 of her future winnings. The court refused to allow this, noting that an \"intermeddler is not permitted to gorge upon the fruits of litigation\". This decision was superseded five years later, when the Ohio General Assembly passed legislation that made lawsuit funding legal.\n\nThe industry has obtained lobbying victories in many other states. In Texas, the industry fought a bill introduced in 2005 that would have subjected litigation financing to the same standards as loans. The bill was ultimately defeated. There was similar success in Ohio, where a bill legalizing lawsuit lending passed in 2008 with little or no opposition. In 2009, the industry also defeated efforts by Maryland legislators that would have reined in lawsuit funding. Maine and Connecticut allow litigation funding by statute, and similar legislation is pending in Kentucky. Furthermore, courts in Texas, Florida, New Jersey, Mississippi, Massachusetts, North Carolina, South Carolina, and New Hampshire have allowed litigation funding contracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "19011538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19011538", "title": "Legality of recording by civilians", "text": "Legality of recording by civilians\n\nThe legality of recording by civilians refers to laws regarding the recording of other persons and property by means of still photography, videography, and audio recording in various locations. In many places, it is common for the recording of public property, persons within the public domain, and of private property visible or audible from the public domain to be legal. However, laws have been passed restricting such activity in order to protect the privacy of others. To make matters even more complicated, the laws governing still photography may be vastly different from the laws governing any type of motion picture photography.\n\nIn the United States, anti-photography laws have been passed following the September 11, 2001 attacks and the increased popularity of camera phones. There might be local laws and policies governing the specific landmark or property in which one seeks to photograph. Laws on private property differ. Owners of private property in most places must authorize recording on their own property.\n\nSigns posted around many bridges, including the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, state that filming the structure is prohibited. The legality of such restrictions is problematic; in view of the First Amendment, restrictions on taking pictures of a public structure in public may be unconstitutional, (in view of the fact that prohibiting taking pictures will probably neither prevent nor reduce the potential for such attacks, nor do such prohibitions necessarily mean it will in any way hinder someone from committing an attack in the first place.) The courts have held, however, that in some cases, restrictions on taking pictures on military reservations such as military bases, can be constitutionally valid, so a restriction on taking a picture of a structure that is operated by the military or is on a military reservation might be constitutional, but even then, such restrictions must be reasonable and have some relevant purpose. Forbidding pictures of a weapons system on a military base would have relevance to preventing enemy acquisition of technology and would be such a legitimate purpose, but the mere forbidding of taking pictures of a latrine, a post exchange (PX) or a mess hall probably would not.\n\nIn August 2004, an Annandale, Virginia, man was arrested and detained when his wife was observed by a police officer filming the Chesapeake Bay Bridge as he drove across. He was held as a material witness after he was found to have ties to Hamas. He was later released on bail without being charged.\n\nMany places have passed or considered legislation that prohibits voyeurism with phones and other similar devices, commonly referred to as \"upskirting\" or \"downblousing.\" Such behaviors have become common since camera phones have become popular, thereby raising such concerns.\nOn March 7th, 2014, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court hearing ruled that taking photos of someone up their skirt was not specifically prevented by peeping tom laws. The Massachusetts Supreme Court Judges concluded that since the current laws didn't make any distinction for clothed individuals, only for 'partially or completely' undressed ones, it was legal under current Massachusetts law. The very next day, legislation was introduced to ban upskirting in its entirety. It soon received bipartisan support and was approved and enacted on March 8th, 2014.\n\nLaws prohibiting the photography of citizens for public display have prevented the creation of recordings for Google Street View in some countries in Europe.\n\nLaws differ in the United States on how many parties must give their consent before a conversation may be recorded. In 38 states and the District of Columbia, conversations may be recorded if the person is party to the conversation, or if at least one of the people who are party to the conversation have given a third party consent to record the conversation. As of 2010, in California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and Washington State, the consent of all parties of the conversation must be obtained in order to record a conversation.\n\nIn Canada, telephone calls may be recorded without a court order if one of the parties to the call consents to the recording. It is to a judge's discretion as to whether or not to admit the recording into evidence if both parties are not aware of the conversation having been recorded.\n\n"}
{"id": "5700051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5700051", "title": "Letters of Gediminas", "text": "Letters of Gediminas\n\nThere are 6 surviving transcripts of letters of Gediminas written in 1323–1324 by Grand Duke Gediminas. These letters are one of the first surviving documents from the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Since they were sent to the Western Europe, the pope, merchants, and craftspeople, they were written in Latin.\n\nThe first letter was written to Pope John XXII. Gediminas claimed that the Teutonic Knights did not act in the interest of the Catholic faith. Instead, they brutally devastated the land. The people were forced into resistance. Gediminas enumerated many crimes and damages done by the knights; for example, he claimed that his predecessor Vytenis sent a letter to the Franciscan monks asking for two brothers who could come to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania to look after a local church. When the Teutonic Knights learned about the letter, they sent their army and destroyed the church. In the last sentence Gediminas vaguely promised to accept Christianity and obey the pope.\n\nThe second letter was written on January 25, 1323 to the German cities of Lübeck, Sund, Bremen, Magdeburg, Cologne and other cities in the Holy Roman Empire. Gediminas explained that the Grand Duchy of Lithuania was very tolerant to the Christians, but remained pagan and did not accept Christianity only because of brutal Teutonic Knights. He told about the first letter sent to the pope and his intentions to baptize in the Catholic rite. Gediminas invited knights, squires, merchants, doctors, smiths, wheelwrights, cobblers, skinners, millers, and others to come to the Grand Duchy and practice their trade and faith without any restrictions. The peasants were promised tax exemption for ten years. The merchants were also exempt from any tariffs or taxes. This letter is best known because Vilnius, capital of Lithuania, was mentioned in written sources for the first time. Therefore, 1323 is considered to be the official founding year of Vilnius. Gediminas is considered to be the city's founder even though the city existed years before Gediminas' reign. Also, Vilnius is unambiguously mentioned as the capital city. His invitation notably included German Jews as well as Christians, and its issuance is closely linked to the establishment of the Jewish community in Lithuania.\n\nThe third letter addressed to Lübeck, Rostock, Sund, Greifswald, Stetin, Gotland cities was written on May 26, 1323. In essence it repeated the second letter. It asked for various craftspeople (the list of crafts was expanded) to come to Lithuania and practice their trade. It said that there were three churches in the duchy: two Franciscan (in Vilnius and in Navahradak) and one Dominican. Everyone was free to use them.\n\nThe fourth and the fifth letters were also written on May 26, 1323 and were addressed to the Franciscan and Dominican Orders. Gediminas, in anticipation of his baptism, invited priests and monks to come to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. He also asked to spread the word to craftspeople that they were welcome in Lithuania. In the letter to the Dominicans, Gediminas mentioned that his seal was burned by the Teutonic Knights.\n\nThe last surviving letter was written on September 22, 1324 and was addressed to the bishop of Tartu, Erzel, ruler of Tallinn land, and Council of Riga. It reported that the Teutonic Knights violated a peace treaty signed earlier. The Knights attacked border regions, killed residents, and took all valuables. Many messengers were captured and killed. Gediminas asked for help enforcing the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "8662588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8662588", "title": "List of cases of police brutality", "text": "List of cases of police brutality\n\nThis list compiles incidents alleged or proved to be due to police brutality that attracted significant media or historical attention. Many cases are alleged to be of brutality; some cases are more than allegations, with official reports concluding that a crime was committed by police, with some criminal convictions for offences such as grievous bodily harm, planting evidence and wrongful arrest.\nThis list should include only cases outside of the following countries, each of which has their own list:\n\nIf you find a case from one of those countries on this list, please move it to the correct country list.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27725497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27725497", "title": "List of composers who studied law", "text": "List of composers who studied law\n\nThe following is a list of composers who studied law.\n\n"}
{"id": "3908696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908696", "title": "List of methods of capital punishment", "text": "List of methods of capital punishment\n\nThis is a list of methods of capital punishment, also known as execution. \n\n"}
{"id": "58636022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58636022", "title": "Metropolitan Police Act 1856", "text": "Metropolitan Police Act 1856\n\nThe Metropolitan Police Act 1856 (19 Vict c 2) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, passed on 28 February 1856. The Act modified the previous two Metropolitan Police Acts of 1829 and 1839, merging the two roles of First Commissioner and Second Commissioner into the single role of Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis and setting up a system of two Assistant Commissioners under him. The roles of First and Second Joint Commissioner had been filled by Richard Mayne and William Hay until the latter's death in 1855. The Act provided for one of the First and Second Commissioners to become the sole Commissioner as soon as the other one died - effectively it meant that no new Second Joint Commissioner was appointed and Mayne became sole Commissioner. The Act also set the maximum for the Commissioner's annual salary at £1500 and that for each Assistant Commissioner at £800.\n\nThe Act also established the Assistant Commissioners as ex officio Justices of the Peace for all counties then partly or wholly covered by the Metropolitan Police District (i.e. Middlesex, Surrey, Hertfordshire, Essex, Kent, Berkshire and Buckinghamshire). He was not to act as a JP, however, \"at any Court of General or Quarter Sessions, or in any Matter out of Sessions, except for the Preservation of the Peace, the Prevention of Crimes, the Detention and Committal of Offenders, and in carrying into execution the Purposes of this Act and the said recited Acts\" and like usual JPs could not be elected as a Member of Parliament or vote in some General Elections. In the case of the Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis being ill or the post being left vacant, either Assistant Commissioner could be authorised by one of the Principal Secretaries of State to act as acting Commissioner. The Assistant Commissioners were also to be \"within the Provisions of the Act of the Session holden in the Fourth and Fifth Years of King William the Fourth, Chapter Twenty-four, in like Manner as if their Offices were enumerated in the Schedule to that Act\".\n"}
{"id": "30135076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30135076", "title": "Nationwide Suspicious Activity Reporting Initiative", "text": "Nationwide Suspicious Activity Reporting Initiative\n\nThe Nationwide Suspicious Activity Reporting (SAR) Initiative (NSI) is a program of the United States Government used to collect and share reports of suspicious activity by people in the United States.\n\nSuspicious activity is defined in the \"ISE-SAR Functional Standard (ISE-SAR FS) Version 1.5\" as \"observed behavior reasonably indicative of pre-operational planning related to terrorism or other criminal activity.\" It is important to note that the NSI is a behavior-focused approach to identifying suspicious activity. Factors such as race, ethnicity, national origin, or religious affiliation are NOT considered as factors that create suspicion (except if used as part of a specific suspect description). The behaviors outlined in the ISE-SAR FS were identified by subject-matter experts; validated through implementation in the Los Angeles, California, Police Department and the application of ten years of State and Local Anti-Terrorism Training (SLATT) Program\n\nThe NSI is currently being implemented through a partnership between the national network of fusion centers and key federal agencies that will coordinate with law enforcement officers in their states. This partnership spans the spectrum of customized technology solutions and includes training and the development of comprehensive privacy, civil rights and civil liberties policies at both the federal and fusion center levels. This approach also provides for a decentralized process that respects the state's unique requirements but maintains national standards that permit the interoperability of information exchanges and the consistent application of a privacy framework, and is consistent with the allocation of responsibilities to the 72 designated State and major urban area fusion centers.\n\nOn December 17, 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice was named the Executive Agent to establish and operate the Program Management Office (PMO) for the NSI, taking on responsibility for coordinating existing resources and managing additional support to further develop and deploy the NSI. In March 2010, the PMO was established within the Bureau of Justice Assistance.\n\nThe goal of the PMO is to facilitate the implementation of the NSI across all levels of government, and assist participating agencies to adopt compatible processes, policies, and standards that foster broader sharing of SARs, while ensuring that privacy and civil liberties are protected in accordance with local, state, and federal laws and regulations. Primary functions of the Program Management Office include advocating on behalf of the NSI, providing guidance to participants at all levels, and coordinating various efforts within the NSI. Given the criticality of privacy and civil liberties issues, the PMO works collaboratively with, and is supported by, the DOJ Privacy and Civil Liberties Office.\n\nTo ensure that the behavior-focused approach that is outlined in the ISE-SAR Functional Standard is institutionalized, the NSI created a multifaceted training approach designed to increase the effectiveness of federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement professionals in identifying, reporting, evaluating, and sharing pre-incident terrorism indicators to prevent acts of terrorism.\n\nThere are currently three briefings/trainings available through the NSI PMO, with several others under development:\nLaw enforcement executives play a vital role in ensuring that the SAR process is not only successfully implemented but effectively supported. The SAR Executive Briefings focus on executive leadership, policy development, privacy and civil liberties protections, agency training, and community outreach. Fusion centers, law enforcement professional associations, and additional entities conduct these types of briefings in a variety of venues.\nEnsuring that SARs are properly reviewed and vetted is critical to promoting the integrity of information submitted; protecting citizens' privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties; and successfully implementing the SAR process. The SAR Analytic Role Training focuses on the evaluation of SARs to identify behaviors that may be associated with pre-incident terrorism planning and the process for sharing terrorism-related SARs nationwide. Through this curriculum, analysts and investigators are trained to recognize terrorism-related pre-incident indicators and to validate—based on a combination of knowledge, experience, and available information—whether the behavior has a potential nexus to terrorism and meets criteria for submission. The training is delivered in an eight-hour workshop format.\nFrontline law enforcement personnel are trained to recognize behavior and incidents that may indicate criminal activity associated with terrorism. Their routine duties position them to observe and report suspicious behaviors or activities. The SAR Line Officer Training focuses on the critical role line officers have in the effective implementation of the SAR process by identifying and documenting suspicious activity. To efficiently deliver training to a large number of line officers in a timely manner, this training is delivered through a 15-minute CD that has been posted to several online/distance-learning formats.\n\nNSI program administrators claim they are aware of the importance of protecting the personal privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties of all Americans, and in response have developed and implemented a comprehensive NSI Privacy Protection Framework that is required for agencies at all levels of government prior to participation in the NSI. Participating agencies must have an approved privacy policy that specifically addresses the SAR process; applies the protections outlined in the ISE-SAR Functional Standard (Version 1.5) and the ISE Privacy Guidelines; and participate in each of the three training programs described above. The NSI PMO also requires that participating fusion centers have policies that address how the center incorporates applicable state laws, agency rules, and regulations into the sharing of terrorism-related SAR information.\n\nThe NSI requires each site to consider privacy throughout the SAR process by fully adopting the following NSI Privacy Protection Framework prior to NSI participation:\n\nA key aspect of the NSI is the SAR vetting process. Before an agency can move SARs from the agency systems to the ISE, two forms of vetting must occur. Supervisors who initially receive a SAR from law enforcement officers, public safety agencies, private sector partners, or citizens must initially review the SAR to determine whether it has a nexus to terrorism and whether it includes the behaviors identified in the ISE-SAR FS. Trained analysts must then analyze the SAR against the behaviors identified in the ISE-SAR FS. Throughout the vetting process, privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties are vigilantly and actively protected through the training that analysts receive and through the system attributes that are a part of the NSI.\n\nThe success of the NSI largely depends on the ability of law enforcement agencies to earn and maintain the public's trust, which is accomplished through a transparent process that addresses the concerns of citizens and by engaging collaboratively with advocacy groups. To support a fusion center's efforts to interact with its community, as well as local law enforcement, the NSI Program Management Office (PMO) led the development and participation in the \"Building Communities of Trust (BCOT) initiative\". This initiative is designed to assist fusion centers in engaging community leaders in a dialogue about the center's functions, including the SAR process, the NSI, and the need for interaction with community leaders. Outreach to advocacy groups has served an essential role in shaping the NSI Privacy Protection Framework and will continue to play an important role in the NSI as it moves forward.\n\nIn addition to multiple levels of SAR review by trained personnel, there are system attributes that support privacy protections for the gathering, collection, storage, and sharing of SAR information, such as:\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice's (DOJ) Global Justice Information Sharing Initiative Criminal Intelligence Coordinating Council developed the \"Privacy, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties Compliance Verification for the Intelligence Enterprise\", which is a compliance verification document, for the purpose of assisting intelligence enterprises in complying with all applicable privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties protection laws, regulations, and policies while sharing appropriate intelligence and information needed to safeguard America.\n\nAccording to an investigation by the Washington Post, this program, \"by far the largest and most technologically sophisticated in the nation's history, collects, stores and analyzes information about thousands of U.S. citizens and residents, many of whom have not been accused of any wrongdoing.\" Reports of suspicious behavior noticed by local law enforcement, or even by private citizens, are forwarded to the program, and profiles are constructed of persons who are merely under suspicion, without adjudicated evidence or reasonable suspicion that a crime is being committed. It has been described as \"a vast domestic spying network to collect information on Americans\". According to the American Civil Liberties Union, the program's fusion centers \"raise very serious privacy issues at a time when new technology, government powers and zeal in the \"war on terrorism\" are combining to threaten Americans' privacy at an unprecedented level.\"\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, fifty-three individuals involved with peace groups, the anti-death penalty movement, and other causes were improperly added to a terrorist and drug trafficking data base by the Maryland State Police. Former Maryland Attorney General Stephen Sachs said the 14 months of covert police surveillance, which took place in 2005 and 2006, was \"not predicated on any information indicating that those individuals or groups had committed or planned any criminal misconduct.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9394175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9394175", "title": "New York University Law Review", "text": "New York University Law Review\n\nThe New York University Law Review is a flagship generalist law review journal publishing legal scholarship in all areas, including legal theory and policy, environmental law, legal history, international law, and more. Each year, its six issues publish legal scholarship written by professors, judges, and legal practitioners, as well as Notes written by current students at New York University School of Law, who are members of the \"Law Review\".\n\nThe \"New York University Law Review\" was founded in 1924 as a collaborative effort between law students and members of the local bar. Its first editor-in-chief was Paul D. Kaufman. Between 1924 and 1950, it was variously known as the \"Annual Review of the Law School of New York University\", the \"New York University Law Quarterly Review\", and the \"New York University Law Review\". Since 1950, it has been known exclusively as the \"New York University Law Review\".\n\nThe \"Law Review\" publishes six issues per year in April, May, June, October, November, and December. Circulation is about 1,500. The journal publishes a wide range of scholarship by professors and judges, with a particular emphasis on legal theory, administrative law, environmental law, legal history, and international law. In addition, the \"Law Review\" is known for its commitment to student scholarship. In 2006, it published twenty-six articles written by law students.\n\nThe \"Law Review\" ranks fourth in Washington & Lee Law School's overall law review rankings, following the \"Harvard Law Review\", \"Yale Law Journal\", and \"Columbia Law Review\". With Yale, it ranks first in \"impact factor,\" a measure of the average number of times each published article is cited.\n\nEach year, the \"Law Review\" selects 52 new members from a class of approximately 450. Members are selected using a competitive process, which takes into account an applicant's first-year grades, performance in a writing competition, and potential to contribute to diversity on the journal. The \"Law Review\", as is the case at virtually all law schools, is the most selective journal at New York University School of Law.\n\nOn October 6, 2018, a group that calls itself Faculty, Alumni, and Students Opposed to Racial Preferences (FASORP), filed a lawsuit against the law review over discrimination against white males both in selecting the staff editors and selecting articles to publish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4649271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4649271", "title": "Oppression remedy", "text": "Oppression remedy\n\nIn corporate law in Commonwealth countries, an oppression remedy is a statutory right available to oppressed shareholders. It empowers the shareholders to bring an action against the corporation in which they own shares when the conduct of the company has an effect that is oppressive, unfairly prejudicial, or unfairly disregards the interests of a shareholder. It was introduced in response to \"Foss v Harbottle\", which had held that where a company's actions were ratified by a majority of the shareholders, the courts will not generally interfere.\n\nIt has been widely copied in companies legislation throughout the Commonwealth, including:\n\nThe \"Companies Ordinance\" of Hong Kong also contains similar provisions.\n\nAn oppression remedy, intended to operate as an alternative to winding up a company, was adopted as s. 210 of the \"Companies Act 1948\", which declared:\n\nIn the \"Companies Act 2006\", the relevant provision is expressed in s. 994 (and the Secretary of State has similar authority under s. 995):\n\nConduct that is considered to constitute \"unfair prejudice\" has been given a broad interpretation, which can include:\n\nThe conduct is not confined to a specific group. In \"Re HR Harmer Ltd\", Jenkins LJ noted that the definition is \"wide enough to cover oppression by anyone who is taking part in the conduct of the affairs of the company whether \"de facto\" or \"de jure\".\" Therefore, it can cover the actions of:\n\nProvisions similar to s. 210 of the 1948 UK Act were first introduced into Canadian law through the 1975 passage of the \"Canada Business Corporations Act\". It incorporated recommendations made in 1962 by the UK Jenkins Committee on Company Law for removing the linkage of the remedy with that of winding-up and for broadening its scope. Canadian legislation (both federally and in all provinces other than Prince Edward Island) provides for a broad approach to the oppression remedy (). In \"Peoples Department Stores Inc. (Trustee of) v. Wise\", the Supreme Court of Canada noted:\n\nA \"complainant\" is deemed to be a current or former registered security holder, a current or former director or officer, the Director appointed under the \"CBCA\", or \"any other person who, in the discretion of a court, is a proper person to make an application under this Part.\" In that regard, it can include a creditor of the corporation (but not every creditor will qualify), as well as a trustee appointed under the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\" or a monitor appointed under the \"Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act\".\n\nAs in the United Kingdom, oppressive conduct is not restricted to that committed by corporations. In the case of corporate directors, the Supreme Court of Canada in 2017 held that they can be held personally liable for such conduct, but only where:\n\n\nApplications to the Court have been successful where:\n\n\nThe court's discretion is not unlimited, as the Court of Appeal of Newfoundland and Labrador observed in 2003:\n\nOppression claims are separate from derivative actions, but the two are not mutually exclusive. However, a derivative action claim can only be instituted by leave of the court, as it is brought by a complainant to sue on behalf of the corporation for a wrong done to the corporation, and any successful claim is binding on all shareholders. This is in contrast to the oppression remedy claim, where a complainant sues on behalf of himself for a wrong he suffers personally as a result of corporate conduct.\n\nS. 234 of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" provides that the following can apply for an order seeking relief for oppressive conduct:\n\nS. 232 states that the conduct of the company's affairs, an actual or proposed act or omission by or on behalf of a company, or a resolution or proposed resolution by all, or by a class, of the shareholders, must be:\n\nin order for an application to be considered.\n\nThe oppression remedy, together with the option available for winding up a company and ASIC's use of the public interest ground in that regard, has received greater exposure and legal development since the onset of the global financial crisis.\n\n"}
{"id": "44532849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44532849", "title": "PUD No. 1 of Jefferson County v. Washington Department of Ecology", "text": "PUD No. 1 of Jefferson County v. Washington Department of Ecology\n\nPUD No. 1 of Jefferson County v. Washington Department of Ecology, 511 U.S. 700 (1994), is a case decided by the United States Supreme Court that interpreted section 401 of the Clean Water Act. The case involved an application by the Jefferson County Public Utility District and Tacoma City Light in northwestern Washington to build a hydropower facility on the Dosewallips River, first proposed in 1982 and known as the \"Elkhorn Dam\" project. The Washington State Department of Ecology issued a certification to the project in 1986 that imposed minimum water flow requirements to protect species of salmon and steelhead under the federal Clean Water Act. Tacoma City Light argued that the dam project would only need to adhere to minimum flow standards set by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), who license dams. Environmentalist groups argued that the FERC was insensitive to recreation and protection of salmon and steelhead and asked the state to enforce its minimum flow standards.\n\nThe Washington State Supreme Court ruled in favor of the state Department of Ecology on April 1, 1993. The case was taken to the United States Supreme Court the following year, where the court ruled 7–2 in favor of the state.\n\nIn 1982, the Jefferson County Public Utility District (also known as PUD No. 1), in conjunction with Tacoma City Light, proposed the construction of a 10.4-megawatt hydroelectric dam on the Dosewallips River, near the Elkhorn Campground. The Dosewallips River, a glacier-fed stream that originates in the Olympic Mountains and empties into Hood Canal, passes through Olympic National Park and Olympic National Forest. The river, described as being in \"pristine condition\", supports populations of salmon, steelhead and trout native to the area. The Jefferson County PUD had looked to damming the Dosewallips River to provide hydroelectricity as well as drinking water to support long-term population growth.\n\nTacoma and Jefferson applied for a water quality certificate from the State of Washington in 1983 as part of requirements outlined by section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act; the certificate came in addition to a license from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) before beginning construction. After a two-year environmental study by Tacoma, Jefferson PUD and the state departments of Ecology, Fisheries and Wildlife, and the federal Fish and Wildlife Service, the dam was proposed to maintain minimum in-stream flows of per second, depending on the month. The Washington State Department of Ecology issued the section 401 certificate in 1986, with a condition to maintain minimum in-stream flows of per second.\n\nTacoma and Jefferson appealed the in-stream flows requirement to the Washington Pollution Control Hearings Board (PCHB), who initially ruled in 1987 that the Department of Ecology had acted within its authority in placing the requirements in order to preserve the fisheries of the Dosewallips River. At a second hearing, the PCHB considered an argument from Tacoma and Jefferson alleging that the Department of Ecology had exceeded its authority in imposing the in-stream flows requirement to enhance the fishery, rather than maintain and preserve it. As a result, the flow rates were reversed by the board, leading to a cross-appeal in the Thurston County Superior Court. The court ruled in 1991 that the Department of Ecology had the authority to require an enhancement of the Dosewallips fisheries and re-instated their proposed flow rates.\n\nThe case was heard by the Washington Supreme Court in 1993. The court ruled in favor of the Department of Ecology, finding that the department intended to preserve, not enhance, the Dosewallips fisheries and that the PCHB's findings were erroneous. The court also concluded that the Department of Ecology's permit was valid and was not preempted by the Federal Power Act and the FERC license.\n\nJustice O'Connor authored the opinion of the Court.\n\nTacoma City Light withdrew its application for the project in April 1995 and announced the following month that it would abandon plans to build the dam.\n\n"}
{"id": "10151664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10151664", "title": "Pandectists", "text": "Pandectists\n\nThe Pandectists were German university legal scholars in the early 19th century who studied and taught Roman law as a model of what they called Konstruktionsjurisprudenz (conceptual jurisprudence) as codified in the Pandects of Justinian (Berman).\n\nBeginning in the mid-19th century, the Pandectists were attacked in arguments by noted jurists Julius Hermann von Kirchmann and Rudolf von Jhering who favored a modern approach of law as a practical means to an end (Weber).\n\nIn the United States, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. and other legal realists pushed for laws based on what judges and the courts actually did, rather than the historical and conceptual or academic law of Friedrich Carl von Savigny and the Pandectists (Rosenberg).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11029712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11029712", "title": "Powell v. Texas", "text": "Powell v. Texas\n\nPowell v. Texas, 392 U.S. 514 (1968), was a United States Supreme Court case which ruled that a Texas statute criminalizing public intoxication did not violate the Eighth Amendment protection against cruel and unusual punishment. It was a 5-4 decision, and the majority opinion was by Justice Thurgood Marshall. Justice Hugo Black and Byron White each wrote separate concurring opinions, while Justice Abe Fortas dissented.\n\nThe defendant, Leroy Powell, worked in a tavern shining shoes, for which he received approximately $12/week. Though Powell had a family he provided no support to them; instead, he would use his paycheck to buy wine, which he drank daily, and about once a week to the point of intoxication.\n\nPowell was no stranger to the court system; \"appellant had been convicted of public intoxication approximately 100 times since 1949, primarily in Travis County, Texas\" (though he had a few convictions in neighboring Bastrop County, Texas). Each time, he would be fined $20 (for Travis County offenses) or $25 (for Bastrop County offenses); he would almost always have no means to pay the fine and was thus obliged to work off the fine in jail at the rate of $5/day.\n\nIn the specific case, Powell was arrested in Travis County in late December 1966 on yet another public intoxication charge. His case was heard before the Corporation Court of Austin, Texas (what the Austin municipal court was then called); Powell was once again found guilty and was once again fined $20. This time, though, his defense counsel appealed the conviction to the Travis County Court of Law No. 1 on the grounds that Powell could not be arrested for being an alcoholic. The County Court heard the case de novo and Powell was again found guilty, and fined him $50. As no further appeals were available for Powell within the Texas judicial system, his counsel appealed to the United States Supreme Court.\n\nFour members of the Court concluded that Powell, the defendant who was convicted of public intoxication, \"was convicted, not for being a chronic alcoholic, but for being in public while drunk on a particular occasion.\" Therefore, the Texas statute was not criminalizing the condition of alcoholism alone, but instead punishing the defendant for his public behavior. The majority distinguished the case from the earlier case \"Robinson v. California\" (1962), which ruled that drug addiction alone as a disease could not be criminalized.\n\nJustice Black, joined by Justice Harlan, wrote that striking down public intoxication laws \"would significantly limit the States in their efforts to deal with a widespread and important social problem and would do so by announcing a revolutionary doctrine of constitutional law that would also tightly restrict state power to deal with a wide variety of other harmful conduct.\"\n\nJustice White wrote that there was no Constitutional violation for being arrested while intoxicated in public, and therefore the conviction should stand.\n\nJustice Fortas, writing for the dissent, argued that chronic alcoholism was a disease, and in his opinion was no different than the case in \"Robinson\" which involved narcotic addiction. Therefore, regardless of where the intoxication took place, in his opinion Powell should not have been convicted.\n\n"}
{"id": "14439975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14439975", "title": "Privilege (evidence)", "text": "Privilege (evidence)\n\nIn the law of evidence, a privilege is a rule of evidence that allows the holder of the privilege to refuse to disclose information or provide evidence about a certain subject or to bar such evidence from being disclosed or used in a judicial or other proceeding.\n\nThere are a large number of such privileges recognised by the judicial system, some stemming from the common law and others from statute law. Each privilege has its own rules, which often vary between jurisdictions.\n\nOne well known privilege is the solicitor–client privilege, referred to as the attorney–client privilege in the United States and as the legal professional privilege in Australia. This protects confidential communications between a client and his or her legal adviser for the dominant purpose of legal advice. The rationale is that clients ought to be able to communicate freely with their lawyers, in order to facilitate the proper functioning of the legal system. \n\nOther common forms include privilege against compelled self-incrimination (in other proceedings), without prejudice privilege (protecting communications made in the course of negotiations to settle a legal dispute), public interest privilege (formerly Crown privilege, protecting documents for which secrecy is necessary for the proper functioning of government), spousal (marital) privilege, medical professional privilege, and clergy–penitent privilege.\n\nIn the US, several states have enacted the \"Uniform Mediation Act\" (UMA) which specifies a mediator's privilege with regard to state procedures.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 provides that evidence relating to spent convictions (those in respect of which the Act says the convicted person is rehabilitated, generally older and less serious ones) is inadmissible, and provides privilege against answering questions relating to such convictions; although some exceptions apply, in particular in criminal proceedings.\n\nThe effect of the privilege is usually a right on the part of a party or witness to a case, allowing them to refuse to produce evidence in the form of documents or testimony from the person entitled to the privilege. For example, a person can generally prevent their attorney testifying about the legal relationship between attorney and client, even if the attorney were willing to do so. In this case the privilege belongs to the client and not the attorney.\n\nIn a few instances, such as the marital privilege, the privilege is a right held by the potential witness. Thus, if a wife wishes to testify against her husband, she may do so even if he opposes this testimony; however, the wife has the privilege of refusing to testify even if the husband wishes her to do so.\n\nOn the other hand, the person entitled to a privilege is at liberty to waive the privilege.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2573109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2573109", "title": "Selective Service Act of 1917", "text": "Selective Service Act of 1917\n\nThe Selective Service Act of 1917 or Selective Draft Act () authorized the United States federal government to raise a national army for service in World War I through conscription. It was envisioned in December 1916 and brought to President Woodrow Wilson's attention shortly after the break in relations with Germany in February 1917. The Act itself was drafted by then-Captain (later Brigadier General) Hugh S. Johnson after the United States entered World War I by declaring war on Germany. The Act was canceled with the end of the war on November 11, 1918. The Act was upheld as constitutional by the United States Supreme Court in 1918.\n\nAt the time of World War I, the US Army was small compared with the mobilized armies of the European powers. As late as 1914, the Regular Army had under 100,000 men, while the National Guard (the organized militias of the states) numbered around 115,000. The National Defense Act of 1916 authorized the growth of the Army to 165,000 and the National Guard to 450,000 by 1921, but by 1917 the Army had only expanded to around 121,000, with the National Guard numbering 181,000.\n\nBy 1916, it had become clear that any participation by the United States in the conflict in Europe would require a far larger army. While President Wilson at first wished to use only volunteer troops, it soon became clear that this would be impossible. When war was declared, Wilson asked for the Army to increase to a force of one million. But by six weeks after war was declared, only 73,000 men had volunteered for service. Wilson accepted the recommendation of Secretary of War Newton D. Baker for a draft.\n\nGeneral Enoch H. Crowder, the Judge Advocate General of the United States Army, when first consulted, was opposed. But later, with the assistance of Captain Hugh Johnson and others, Crowder guided the bill through Congress and administered the draft as the Provost Marshal General.\n\nA problem that came up in the writing of the bill and its negotiation through Congress was the desire of former President Theodore Roosevelt to assemble a volunteer force to go to Europe. President Wilson and others, including army officers, were reluctant to permit this for a variety of reasons. The final bill contained a compromise provision permitting the president to raise four volunteer divisions, a power Wilson did not exercise.\n\nTo persuade an uninterested populace to support the war and the draft, George Creel, a veteran of the newspaper industry, became the United States' official war propagandist. He set up the Committee on Public Information, which recruited 75,000 speakers, who made 750,000 four-minute speeches in 5,000 cities and towns across America. Creel later helped form the American Alliance for Labor and Democracy, with union leader Samuel Gompers as president, to win working-class support for the war and \"unify sentiment in the nation\". The AALD had branches in 164 cities, and many labor leaders went along although \"rank-and-file working class support for the war remained lukewarm...\", and the campaign was ultimately unsuccessful. Many prominent Socialist leaders became pro-war, though the majority did not.\n\nBy the guidelines set down by the Selective Service Act, all males aged 21 to 30 were required to register to potentially be selected for military service. At the request of the War Department, Congress amended the law in August 1918 to expand the age range to include all men 18 to 45, and to bar further volunteering. By the end of World War I, some two million men volunteered for various branches of the armed services, and some 2.8 million had been drafted. This meant that more than half of the almost 4.8 million Americans who served in the armed forces were drafted. Due to the effort to incite a patriotic attitude, the World War I draft had a high success rate, with fewer than 350,000 men \"dodging\" the draft.\n\nThe biggest difference between the draft established by the Selective Service Act of 1917 and the Civil War draft was that substitutes were not allowed. During the Civil War, a drafted man could avoid service by hiring another man to serve in his place. This option was primarily used by wealthy men, and was resented by those who couldn't afford it or considered it dishonorable.\n\nThis practice was prohibited in Section Three of the Selective Service Act of 1917:\n\nNo person liable to military service shall hereafter be permitted or allowed to furnish a substitute for such service; nor shall any substitute be received, enlisted, or enrolled in the military service of the United States; and no such person shall be permitted to escape such service or to be discharged therefrom prior to the expiration of his term of service by the payment of money or any other valuable thing whatsoever as consideration his release from military service or liability there to.\n\nDuring World War I there were three registrations.\nThe Selective Service Act was upheld by the United States Supreme Court in the \"Selective Draft Law Cases\", . The Solicitor General's argument, and the court's opinion, were based primarily on \"Kneedler v. Lane\", 45 Pa. 238, 252 (1863), and Vattel's 1758 treatise \"The Law of Nations\".\n\nAfter the signing of the armistice of November 11, 1918, the activities of the Selective Service System were rapidly curtailed. On March 31, 1919, all local, district, and medical advisory boards were closed, and on May 21, 1919, the last state headquarters closed operations. The Provost Marshal General was relieved from duty on July 15, 1919, thereby finally terminating the activities of the Selective Service System of World War I.\n\nConscription was by class. The first candidates were to be drawn from Class I. Members of each class below Class I were available only if the pool of all available and potential candidates in the class above it were exhausted.\n\nThe American military was entirely segregated at the time of World War I. While the Army had several regiments of black \"Buffalo Soldiers\", many white supremacist politicians such as Sen. James K. Vardaman (D-Mississippi) and Sen. Benjamin Tillman (D-South Carolina) staunchly opposed any expanded military role for black Americans. Nevertheless, the War Department decided to include blacks in the draft. A total of 290,527 black Americans were ultimately registered for the draft during the two calls of June 2 and September 12, 1917 – 9.6 percent of the total American pool for potential conscription.\n\nDraft board officials were told to tear off the lower left-hand corner of the Selective Service form of a black registrant, indicating his designation for segregated units. The August 1917 Houston Riot, when armed black soldiers fired upon Houston police and civilians, also affected the War Department's decision-making. The great majority of black soldiers were employed only in labor functions, such as road-building and freight-handling. Only two black combat units of were ultimately established – the 92nd and 93rd Infantry Divisions. Black Americans were entirely excluded from the United States Marine Corps and were consigned to menial labor in the United States Navy for the duration of the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265454", "title": "South African nationality law", "text": "South African nationality law\n\nSouth Africa rewrote its nationality law since the end of Apartheid in 1994 and the establishment of majority rule in the country under the African National Congress. The 1995 South African Citizenship Act did away with the previous Apartheid-era 1949 and 1970 acts which had established separate bantustan citizenship to the country's African majority and inferior levels of citizenship to the country's Asian and coloured minorities.\n\nAccording to Chapter 2 of the 1995 law, anyone who was considered to be a \"citizen by birth\" prior to the enactment of the law or who is born in the Republic on or after the enactment of the law is a citizen by birth. Also, a person is a \"citizen by birth\" if they can be considered a citizen by descent and at the time of birth at least one parent was: 1) in the service of the government, 2) was employed by a person or group located in the Republic, or 3) was in the service of an international organization in which South Africa had membership.\n\nThere is an exception to the birthright citizenship provision: those born to visiting foreign diplomats or their employees, or nonresident aliens are not considered to be \"citizens by birth\" (unless their other parent is a citizen, in which case they are a citizen by birth).\n\nUnder the 1995 law, a person born outside South Africa to a South African parent is a South African citizen by descent upon registration of the birth under South African law. Those who did not retain their Citizenship after they applied for another Citizenship cannot transmit their previously held Citizenship.\n\nUnder Section 5 of the 1995 act, Citizenship can be acquired by adults through naturalisation if the following conditions are met:\n\nNaturalisation of an adult also confers South African citizenship upon that adult's minor children.\n\nNaturalised South Africans who left South Africa before 6 October 1988 and did not obtain a 'Letter of Exemption' from the South African authorities may have lost South African citizenship after seven years absence.\n\nVisa requirements for South African citizens are administrative entry restrictions enforced by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of South Africa. In 2017, South African citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 98 countries and territories, ranking the South African passport 55th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index. Presently, South African citizens have visa-free or visa-on-arrival access to 103 countries, according the February 2018 score ranking the South African passport 53rd in the world. There are many exemptions for South African citizens in lieu of obtaining a visa if in possession of an Exemption Document, see Visa requirements for South African citizens.\n\nPrior to 2004, South Africa in principle did not recognise the multiple citizenship of its nationals unless the citizen applied for an exemption or permission letter under a 1995 law permitting South African citizens to travel using foreign passports.\n\nSince 2004, South African dual nationals may travel without hindrance as long as they enter and leave South Africa on their South African passports. Dual nationals may petition for temporary, emergency or \"permanent\" South African passports for this purpose.\n\nHowever, a South African citizen who by a formal and voluntary act acquires the citizenship of another country, automatically loses his or her South African citizenship unless they apply for, and receive permission to retain their South African citizenship before acquiring the citizenship of the new country. A naturalized citizen however cannot apply for such a retention under the law. There is not a specific requirement to do so if residing in South Africa or if the claim is inevitable such as a dual Zimbabwean-South Africa possessing the Right of Abode in the UK then registering as a British Citizen but it is advised by the Department of Home Affairs. If a South African Citizen wishes to restore a previously lost Citizenship (usually by birth or of their ancestors) due to acquiring Citizenship of another country, for instance citizenship of one of the territories that the Soviet Union controlled, then it is not a Voluntary or Formal Act when applying and retention of South African Citizenship is not necessary. A South African citizen cannot possess the Right of Abode in the United Kingdom as they were not Commonwealth Citizens in 1983 unless they are a Commonwealth Citizen of another country, however if due to registration, British Citizenship and the Right of Abode is given simultaneously.\n\nSouth African citizens under the age of eighteen (18) years are exempt from the retention requirement and do not require permission as long as they acquire the foreign citizenship before their eighteen (18th) birthday by their parent's right or application. They automatically retain their South African citizenship for life unless; once they have reached the age of 18, they wish to acquire a further foreign citizenship. They will then have to apply for prior permission to retain their South African citizenship – failing to do so, they will automatically lose their South African citizenship.\n\nThese laws are not heavily guarded thus entering South Africa with a South African Passport will immediately suggest the holder's Citizenship.\n\nEntering South Africa on a foreign or another Commonwealth Passport is illegal when in the possession of South African Citizenship. If the holder is assumed to have renounced their South African Citizenship because there is no evidence to suggest that they are presently 'once were' South African, then they may pass under the assumption of another/ that citizen but when it is seems that they are a South African Citizen, then may they face interrogation when entering or leaving South Africa when entering on another passport. An example of a person still holding South African Citizenship to the officer would be: a child (under 18) seeking entry with a British Citizen Passport describing them as below 18, having been born in Republic of South Africa and the child's birth certificate stating their parent's place of birth and citizenship as South Africa. This provision of the Citizenship Act (section 26(B)) only applies to adults (\"major citizens\").\n\nThose who previously held South African Citizenship (other than by naturalization) are always entitled to permanent residence in South Africa and may apply to resume (naturalize) their South African citizenship after indefinitely returning so long there is sufficient proof of previously held South African Citizenship. The Permanent Residence holder will then be required to reside in South Africa until (they) become eligible to restore or naturalize as a South African Citizen. The application for resumption of South African citizenship requires proof of residence in South Africa for one year immediately prior to the application. Municipal rates and other utility bills are usually accepted.\n\nThose who naturalized after obtaining Permanent Residence (South African Citizenship not by birth or descent or registration ) cannot apply for Permanent Residence then Citizenship through their claim to previously being a South African Citizen as previously stated unless (they) re-reside in South Africa on a pathway to possible Permanent Residence with an eligible Visa again. This is not applicable to those who were born in South Africa or the UK and former Colonies or obtained their Citizenship by Descent and have since lost it.\n\nMany South Africans have claims to another citizenship (see: Demographics of South Africa).\n\nThe information below is informative and should be viewed as a summary of the influence and History of the presence of the British Nationality Law in South Africa as well as the present effects and entitlements:\n\n\nBetween 1949 and 1961, all South African citizens remained \"British subjects\" by virtue of their South African citizenship whilst South Africa remained an independent Commonwealth nation, this was known as a Dominion prior to 1949, similarly in what is known today as a Commonwealth citizen under the U.K. Nationality Law. During this period South Africans were regarded as: [British Subject: Citizen of the Union of South Africa/ Union National, a British Commonwealth Nation/ Citizen]. The passport’s format was similar to a CUKC passport and included the words “British Subject” inside as with all Commonwealth realms at the time.\n\nThis was ended in 1961 when South Africa left the British Commonwealth on becoming a Republic, and formally abandoned all of its connections, with Union nationals becoming citizens of the Republic of South Africa. By the time South Africa returned to the Commonwealth in 1994, the phrase \"British Subject\" had been replaced by \"Commonwealth citizen\". Australia was the last to phase out British Subject in the Citizenship law which was in 1986.\n\nThe full title of a South African Citizen presently is: Republic of South African Citizen, a Commonwealth Citizen either * with or without the Right of Abode in the United Kingdom \"(formerly British Subject).\"\n\nRight of Abode is the right for its holder to remain in the UK indefinitely (indefinite relationship) without immigration control or restrictions as long as the right can be proved. It is viewed as a status greater than Indefinite Leave to Enter/ Remain (also referred to as Permanent Residency).\n\nHolders of Right of Abode (except British Citizens) must have a Certificate of Entitlement in their passport as proof that their right exists or describing them as a British Subject with the Right of Abode in their British Subject Passport or hold a British Citizen (ROE co-exists with British Citizenship). Those who hold the ROE as a stand-alone status without Citizenship of the United Kingdom must be a Commonwealth Citizen, also applicable to some (British) Nationals which include some British Subjects and some British Overseas Citizens. All British Citizens have the ROE, however ulike British Citizenship which contains the Right of Abode regardless of personal circumstances, the Right of Abode as a Commonwealth Citizen including some forms of British Nationality can be revoked in cases such as in criminal conduct or applications made in fraud which are assessed incorrectly.\n\nAs South Africa was a foreign country (under United Kingdom law) between 1 January 1973, the date the Immigration Act 1971 came into force in the UK, and 1 January 1983 (when the British Nationality Act 1981 came into force) South African Citizens cannot have right of abode in the UK unless they also held before 1983 and still hold citizenship of another Commonwealth country (such as by descent from their parent, e.g. Australia or Zimbabwe which did not cease to be Commonwealth Nations under U.K. Law) or of the UK itself, the holders would most likely have acquired that Citizenship by descent from a parent who was a Citizen of that Commonwealth Country at the time of their birth or through marriage. A Present Day Commonwealth country refers to any country within the Commonwealth of Nations, for instance, Australia, New Zealand or Canada. Since Queen Elizabeth II is not the head of state in South Africa (Queen/ monarch), as South Africa is a Republic, the Queen is the head of the Commonwealth of Nations only and is not the Constitutional Monarch which is the case for systems of the Monarchy for 16 of the Commonwealth nations which are known as realms (including the United kingdom).\n\nThis particularly affects South Africans born before 1983 to a British mother, who would have otherwise acquired the right of abode in the UK on the 1st of January, 1983. Many South Africans possessing Zimbabwean Citizenship have the Right of Abode if their mother was born in the UK prior to 1983 even though Zimbabwe is not part of the Commonwealth under their own laws, but has since applied to re-join or “re-establish” the connection.\n\nBritish Nationality: Citizenship of the \n\nHowever, the changes to British nationality law on 30 April 2003 have since allowed those born in South Africa between 8 February 1961 and 31 December 1982 to a UK-born, naturalized or registered citizen mother to apply for registration as a British citizen (by descent) [which is a less regarded version of British Citizenship by Birth or Naturalization or *some registrations] and with this comes the right of abode in the UK as British Citizenship coexists with the Right Of Abode. This could also enable Citizenship to be passed onto the Grandchildren in various circumstances. This concession is not specific to South African citizens, this applies to all countries including non-Commonwealth realms and members such as the United States and its territories.\n\nIt remains very difficult to obtain many documents from South Africa's Department of Home Affairs for registration. Nationality was not considered something of great significance prior to 1983 (before many governments enforced major immigration changes), nor was this communicated by the U.K. Government frequently unless enquired about usually from the High Commissions. Travel was limited from South Africa due to strict laws imposed by the Apartheid regime, thus many individuals have misplaced their documents which could very well have helped many apply for Registration as a British Citizen by Descent today, many also never requested them.\n\nFor those with a UK born mother, it is important to note that applying for a UK Visa is particularly difficult as South Africa was not always part of the British Commonwealth although is part of the new Commonwealth. The individuals affected are those born to British mothers between 1961 and 1982. The rule of who can possess the Right of Abode is very controversial but in most instances, those who apply for a Visa will generally have their applications refused. Those who later apply for a Certificate of Entitlement as an alternative entry method will also have their applications refused which then leaves them in a difficult situation whereby both the Certificate of Entitlement and UK Standard Victor Visa (C) are usually refused due to the officer not being aware of these restrictions when a British-born mother is mentioned in applications. Therefore, it is imperative to make a claim to register as a British Citizen by Descent if born to a British Mother prior to 1983 to avoid any travel complications. The only associated cost is the Certificate of Citizenship collection of £80.00 as of September 2018.\n\nRegistration as a British Citizen by marriage is also one of the common ways to register if married to a British man prior to 1983.\n\nIt is possible to obtain British citizenship by double descent (from the grandparent) in numerous instances by registration of which some include:\n\n1) +The parent of the child has the Right of Abode and is some form of a British National (e.g. British Citizen) by descent and has spent 3 years in the UK either prior to their birth or before their 18th birthday which would allow their minor child to become registered through the child's grandparent as long as it is within a specific timeframe (must be registered before the child turns 18), child does not have to live in the UK.\n\n2)There is substantial proof that the Grandparent is/ was a British Citizen, their child was either born in a former Colony (between a certain number of years) or did not possess a passport, this will ultimately enable the grandchild to apply for British Citizenship by Registration but the law makes it unclear whether the parent would first have to be British / obtain or possess th ROA. This would essentially confer British Citizenship by 'Double Descent'.\n\n3) Another way is if the mother registered before 1983, the child could potentially become registered.\n\n4) There is the possibility for a child to become Registered as a British Citizen from their British Grandfather if the child's parent became British by Descent at birth automatically but was not able to register her child's birth at the High Commission due to discrimination in the past: the ability in the case: Grandfather whose female child had a child can apply to register.\n\nOther ways include:\n\n5) Children born prior tp 2006 to an unmarried British father can Register as a British Citizen.\n\nRegistration: The term registration refers to gaining British Citizenship where it was previously not available (obtained).\n\nRegistration of different forms can make one a Citizen by Descent, by Marriage and even by Double Descent in some instances, and so forth.\n\nSince claims by double descent are very difficult and require an explanation, the UK Ancestry Visa was introduced (read below); this enables the acquisition of Citizenship in the form of \"otherwise than by descent\" by Naturalization which can be transmitted by descent upon a successful application for British Citizenship after meeting the basic residence requirement of 5 year then a further 1 year as the holder of Indefinite Leave to Remain/ Enter, whereas Citizenship by Double \"Descent\" can only be transmitted in limited circumstances.\n\n+Registering as a British Citizen can sometimes assist the child of the grandparent to become British as Registration generally refers to (otherwise than by descent).\n\nNaturalization is a process of becoming a British Citizen after meeting a residence requirement of 5 years, then a further one year as a ' Permanent Resident' which differs from registration where there is generally no residence requirement.\n\nAs for people born on or after 1 January 1983, they can only possess the Right of Abode to the United Kingdom if they hold British Citizenship.\n\nIf South Africa had remained a Permanent Member of the Commonwealth, those born prior to 1983 to British mothers would have possessed the Right of Abode however, those born after 1983 are British Citizens by descent and can chose whether to have a Certificate of Entitlement in their South African (Commonwealth) Passport or hold a British Passport irrespective of the fact that South Africa became a Commonwealth Nation again in 1994 (period of rejoining), women could only pass on their citizenship after 1983.\n\nMuch of what is seen above is based on previous gender discriminatory laws where children could not enjoy the same rights had their father's been British at the time of birth and is a summary only.\n\nFollowing South Africa's return to the Commonwealth in 1994, South Africans are treated as \"Commonwealth citizens\" in the United Kingdom and amongst other Commonwealth Countries (formerly British Subjects). This includes the following benefits:\n\nThis is a five year's entry clearance (visa) which enables the holder to eventually apply for Indefinite Leave to Remain/ Enter (Permanent Residence) after five years of stay then eventually British Citizenship after a waiting period of one-year by Naturalization, which is in total 6 years of residence. Children (minor) of the qualifier are encouraged to join the UK Ancestry Visa holder as a dependent prior to their eighteenth as they will not be able to join the qualifier in the UK at the age of majority and will therefore be required to make their own method of entry unless they decide to join their parent's by switching from a Visa other than the Standard Visitor Visa (whilst in the UK) or whilst the parent is a Permanent Resident which is on an unlimited-time Family Visa, the child could become a British Citizen as well at a later date. There is no age restrictions for spouses. It is important to note that unlike other UK Work Visas, the Ancestry Visa cannot be revoked as it is ancestral right. Once the right is established, it is indefinite but the Visa will always need to be valid in order to use that right for entry/ re-entry into the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.\n\nThus, if a Five Year Entry Clearance/ Visa is approved, it will be the qualifier's responsibility to ensure that the visa is valid throughout the length (they) anticipate to remain in the UK and Crown Dependencies. Once the initial Visa expires, it can be extended whilst in the UK or a new Visa can be applied for outside the UK but the right would then need to be re-established (not applicable for extensions of visas from the UK). It should be noted that border processing is less demanding when in possession a UK Ancestry Visa.\n\n\n+A non-British Citizen from another Commonwealth Nation residing in the UK can simply vote.\n\nThere are no specific concessions in terms of eligibility for British citizenship, and South Africans must meet the same rules for registration or naturalisation as citizens of any other foreign country. It was however possible for a citizen of the British Commonwealth (other than UK) to register as a British Subject: Citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies (CUKC) prior to 1983 after 1 year's residence or even register without residing before 1961. South Africans that were in the United Kingdom after South Africa became a Republic were permitted to stay and even register as a CUKC. Those that left but did not register may have a Settled Status and can now register as a British Citizen. Those who do not have a Settled Status may apply for a Resident Return Visa if they are part of the Windrush Countries: Commonwealth Citizens that left the United Kingdom or never left.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5903274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5903274", "title": "Supersemar", "text": "Supersemar\n\nThe Supersemar, the Indonesian abbreviation for 'Surat Perintah Sebelas Maret' (Order of Eleventh March), was a document signed by the Indonesian President Sukarno on 11 March 1966, giving the army commander Lt. Gen. Suharto authority to take whatever measures he \"deemed necessary\" to restore order to the chaotic situation during the Indonesian killings of 1965–66. The abbreviation \"Supersemar\" is a play on the name of Semar, the mystic and powerful figure who commonly appears in Javanese mythology including wayang puppet shows. The invocation of Semar was presumably intended to help draw on Javanese mythology to lend support to Suharto's legitimacy during the period of the transition of authority from Sukarno to Suharto.\n\nIn effect, the Supersemar came to be seen as the key instrument of the transfer of executive power from Sukarno to Suharto.\n\nOn 30 September 1965, a group calling itself the 30 September Movement killed six senior army generals, seized temporary control of parts of the center of Jakarta and issued a number of decrees over Republic of Indonesia Radio. Suharto and his allies defeated the movement and in the rather drawn-out process which extended out for six months or more, Sukarno's formal position as president of the nation was slowly but steadily ebbed away. The armed forces accused its long-standing rival, the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI), of being behind the \"coup attempt\" and an anti-Communist purge ensued. Over the next few months Suharto and the armed forces seized the initiative. During a cabinet meeting (which Suharto did not attend), while student demonstrations protected by the army took place in Jakarta, troops without insignia surrounded the presidential palace where the meeting was being held. It later transpired that these were from Army special forces. Sukarno was advised to leave the meeting and did so, flying to the presidential palace in Bogor, 60 km south of Jakarta, by helicopter. Later that afternoon three army generals, Maj. Gen. Basuki Rahmat, Minister for Veteran Affairs, Brig. Gen. M Jusuf, Minister for Basic Industry and Brig. Gen. Amirmachmud, Commander of the 5th Military Region/Jaya, visited Sukarno and came away with the signed Supersemar which they then presented to Suharto. The next day Suharto used the powers thus conferred on him to ban the PKI, and on 18 March, fifteen Sukarno loyalist ministers were arrested. \n\nSuharto changed the composition of the Provisional People's Consultative Assembly (MPRS) and a year later, in March 1967, the MPRS voted to strip Sukarno of his powers and appointed Suharto acting president. In 1968 the MPRS removed the word 'acting' and over two years after the events of September 1965 Suharto became the president of Indonesia. The process of transferring the presidency from Sukarno to Suharto had taken over two years. Suharto remained in power as president until he resigned in during the political crisis in Indonesia in May 1998.\n\nThe Supersemar itself is a simple document of less than 200 words. It reads as follows:\n\nIndonesians usually end documents with the place and date of signing of the document. Given that the Supersemar was supposedly signed in Bogor, it is odd that the Supersemar is signed \"Djakarta\". In his account of the events of March 1966, Hanafi, a close friend of Sukarno and ambassador to Cuba says that he went to Bogor on 12 March and met with Sukarno. He says that Sukarno told him Suharto had sent three generals with a document they had already prepared for him to sign. He says that Sukarno felt he had to sign it because he was in a tight spot, but that the generals had promised to defend Sukarno and that the order would not be misused. However, Martoidjojo, the commander of the presidential bodyguard, who went with Sukarno in the helicopter to Bogor, says that the Supersemar was typed in Bogor by Sukarno's adjutant and military secretary, Brig. Gen. Mochammed Sabur. Djamaluddin corroborates this.\n\nThe wording of the Supersemar itself could be read as a threat, namely the section reading \"to guarantee the personal safety and authority of the leadership\" of Sukarno. However, in 1998, accusations appeared of an even more direct threat, namely that two members of the presidential guard had seen Gen. M. Jusuf and Gen M. Panggabean, second assistant to the Army minister, pointing their pistols at Sukarno. M. Jusuf and others have denied this, and that Panggabean was even present. They called into doubt the credibility of key parts of the accusations, and said it was impossible for the two men to be so close to the president at the time.\n\nOne of difficulties in historical research regarding the Supersemar is that the original document can no longer be found. When then-Vice President Megawati Sukarnoputri ordered the Indonesian National Archives to find it, they reported they only had two copies, one issued by the Army's Information Centre and another by the State Secretary, and that there were significant differences between them.\n\nOne of the publications to appear since the fall of Suharto alleges that there were several versions of the Supersemar. Even before the fall of Suharto, an official publication commemorating 30 years of Indonesian independence reproduced one version of Supersemar, while an officially sanctioned high school history textbook featured a different version.\n\nThere are a number of differences between the various versions of the Supersemar:\n\n\nAccording to Hanafi, in his discussions with Sukarno at the Bogor Palace on 12 March, Sukarno was angry that the Supersemar had been used to ban the PKI, as it was the prerogative of the president to ban political parties. He said he had asked Third Deputy Prime Minister Johannes Leimena to take a written order to Suharto, and that he would wait to see what Suharto's reaction was – whether he would obey it or not. He asked Hanafi to help Third Deputy Prime Minister Chaerul Saleh and First Deputy Prime Minister Subandrio The two men showed Hanafi the \"Order of 13 March\", which stated that the Order of 11 March was technical and administrative in nature, not political, warned General Suharto that he was not to take any actions outside the scope of the order and asked Suharto to report to the president at the palace. Saleh planned to make copies of the order and distribute them to loyal members of the palace guard and to Sukarno's young followers. Hanafi says 5,000 copies were made, and that he took a few back to Jakarta with him, but he does not know what happened to the others.\n\nIn the official biography of Suharto, it is also said that Sukarno questioned Suharto's use of the Supersemar and sent Leimena to ask Suharto to take responsibility for his actions. Saelan, deputy commander of the presidential guard says Suharto ignored the order, and Hanafi says that Suharto sent a message back via Leimena, who returned to Bogor later that evening, saying he would take responsibility for his actions, and that he was unable to come to Bogor as he was due to attend a meeting of all the military commanders at 11 am the following day, to which he invited Sukarno. Incidentally, Hanafi is ambiguous as to the dates in his account, as he says he was in Bogor on 12 March, but the \"correction\" to the Supersemar was known as the Order of 13 March.\n\n"}
{"id": "7193665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7193665", "title": "The Engineering of Consent", "text": "The Engineering of Consent\n\n\"The Engineering of Consent\" is an essay by Edward Bernays first published in 1947, and a book he published in 1955.\n\nIn his own words, Bernays describes engineering consent as \"use of an engineering approach—that is, action based only on thorough knowledge of the situation and on the application of scientific principles and tried practices to the task of getting people to support ideas and programs.\" \n\nBernays explained, \"Professionally, [public relations] activities are planned and executed by trained practitioners in accordance with scientific principles, based on the findings of social scientists. Their dispassionate approach and methods may be likened to those of the engineering professions which stem from the physical sciences.\"\n\nThe threat of engineered consent in democracy has been expressed in a textbook on American government:\n\nTo some observers, consumer psychologists have already made the choice for people before they buy a certain product. Marketing is often based on themes and symbols that unconsciously influence consumer behavior.\n\nThe essay first appeared in the \"Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\". The author's observations in the essay include the following:\n\nIn 1955 University of Oklahoma Press published Bernays' book \"The Engineering of Consent\". In fact Bernays contributed only the first chapter (22 pages) \"The Theory and Practice of Public Relations: A Resumé\". The seven other chapters were by his associates: \"Objectives\" by Howard Walden Cutler, \"Research\" by Sherwood Dodge, \"Strategy\" by Nicholas Samstag, \"Themes and Symbols\" by Doris Fleischman and H.W. Cutler, \"Organization for public relations\" by John Price Jones, \"Planning\" by Benjamin Fine, and \"The tactics of public relations\" by A. Robert Ginsburgh.\n\nThe longest chapter, the one on strategy, begins with sociological and psychological observations on human motivation drawn from Karl Menninger and Vilfredo Pareto. Samstag illustrates varieties of strategy with sample cases before the public. He details aspects of timing, forbearance, approach, surprise, participation, association, disassociation, crossroads, personalization, bland withdrawal, apparent withdrawal, apparent runner-up, omission, reversal, mosaic, and understatement.\n\nA. Edgar Schuler called the book a \"convenient and compact introduction to the field of public relations.\" He singles out Samstag’s chapter as \"interesting, enlightening, provocative, and poignant.\"\n\nM. Weisglas reviewed the book for International Communication Gazette, panning it saying \"Bernay’s and company have deluded their readers with false hopes about public relations- truths.\"\n\nIn a practical example of Edward Bernays’ theory detailed in his essay, George Washington Hill, president of the American Tobacco Company, hired Edward Bernays in 1928 to lead a campaign to entice more women to smoke in public. The campaign is believed to have helped converting attitudes towards women's smoking from a social taboo to a more socially acceptable act. Bernays did this by associating women’s smoking with the ideas of \"power\" and \"freedom\" which he did by using the slogan Torches of Freedom during a famous parade in New York City.\n\nThe idea of “Engineering of Consent” was motivated by Freud’s idea that humans are irrational beings, and are motivated primarily by inner desires hidden in their unconscious. If one understood what those unconscious desires were, then one could use this to one’s advantage to sell products and increase sales.\n\nThe Engineering of Consent also applies to the pioneered application of Freudian psychoanalytic concepts and techniques to business—in particular to the study of consumer behavior in the marketplace. Ideas established strongly influenced the practices of the advertising industry in the twentieth century.\n\nThe techniques applied developing the \"consumer lifestyle\" were also later applied to developing theories in cultural commodification; which has proven successful in the later 20th century (with diffusion of cultures throughout North America) to sell ethnic foods and style in popular mainstream culture by removing them from geography and ethnic histories and sanitizing them for a general public.\n\nErnest Dichter applied what he dubbed \"the strategy of desire\" for building a \"stable society,\" by creating for the public a common identity through the products they consumed; again, much like with cultural commodification, where culture has no \"identity,\" \"meaning,\" or \"history\" inherited from previous generations, but rather, is created by the attitudes which are introduced by consumer behaviors and social patterns of the period. According to Dichter, \"To understand a stable citizen, you have to know that modern man quite often tries to work off his frustrations by spending on self-sought gratification. Modern man is internally ready to fulfill his self-image, by purchasing products which compliment it.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42095352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42095352", "title": "TuneSat", "text": "TuneSat\n\nTuneSat is an online audio recognition service launched in 2009 which enables music copyright holders to detect where their work is being used. Rights owners upload their audio files, and TuneSat begins to search and track results of matches.\n\nFounders Chris Woods and Scott Schreer began by pitching their services to US television networks as an alternative to the cue sheet tracking which has been standard for many years from ASCAP and BMI .\nIn 2012, TuneSat launched a product to detect unlicensed streaming across the web, in podcasts, movie trailers, fan videos, and flash websites.\nIn the spring of 2013, TuneSat raised $1.223 million in equity funding to expand their tracking to more television networks around the world. At the time, TuneSat tracked 320 television networks in 14 countries, including the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain and Italy.\n"}
{"id": "1305395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1305395", "title": "United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs", "text": "United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs\n\nThe United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) is a part of the United Nations Secretariat, located at the United Nations Office in Vienna, Austria. It is tasked with implementing the decisions of the United Nations General Assembly and of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.\n\nOn , the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) was initially created as a small expert unit within the United Nations Secretariat in New York to assist the \"ad hoc\" Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space established by the General Assembly in its resolution 1348 (XIII).\n\nIn 1962, the unit became positioned within the Department of Political and Security Council Affairs (DPSCA), when the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space met for the first time.\n\nIn 1968, the unit was transformed into the Outer Space Affairs Division of DPSCA.\n\nIn 1992, the Division was transformed into the Office for Outer Space Affairs within the Department for Political Affairs, relocating to the United Nations Office at Vienna the following year, in 1993.\n\nIn 2005, the International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (ICG) was established under the umbrella of the United Nations.\n\nIn 2006, the UN-SPIDER programme was established to \"provide universal access to all countries and all relevant international and regional organizations to all types of space-based information and services relevant to disaster management to support the full disaster management cycle\".\n\nIn 2009, Takao Doi became Chief of Space Applications.\n\nIn 2010, the Human Space Initiative was launched.\n\nIn March 2014, the Secretary-General appointed Simonetta Di Pippo (Italy) as the new Director of the Office, having previously served as the Director of Human Spaceflight at the European Space Agency.\n\nIn September 2016, UNOOSA announced the first-ever United Nations space mission, partnering with the Sierra Nevada Corporation (SNC). Using the SNC Dream Chaser spaceplane, UNOOSA will enable developing nations to send microgravity payloads into low-Earth orbit, with a target launch in 2021.\n\nThe Office implements the decisions of the United Nations General Assembly and of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. The office has the dual objective of supporting the intergovernmental discussions in the Committee and its Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and Legal Subcommittee, and of assisting developing countries in using space technology for development.\n\nThe mandate has been adjusted a number of times to allow the Office to undertake, among other tasks, the coordination of the inter-agency cooperation within the United Nations on the use of space technology - UN-Space (resolution 3234 (XXIX)), implementing the United Nations Programme on Space Applications (resolution 2601A (XXIV)) and the UN-SPIDER Programme for disaster risk management and emergency response (resolution 61/110).\n\nThe Office also coordinates and cooperates with space agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations involved in space-related activities and, on behalf of the United Nations Secretary-General, the Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space. The office also helps poor nations suffering from climate change related problems by helping them access satellite images for free.\n\nThe Office is composed of the Committee, Policy, and Legal Affairs (CPLA) section, headed by Niklas Hedman, and the Space Applications Section (SAS), headed by Luc St- Pierre. These are coordinated by the Office of the Director managed by Simonetta Di Pippo.\n\nThe Committee, Policy, and Legal Affairs Section provides substantive secretariat services to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, its Subcommittees, and working groups, as well as contributing to the implementation of the recommendations of UN global conferences. The section further convenes and services the Inter Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities – UN-Space, which is the central inter-agency coordination mechanisms in the UN system on overarching space matters, and which meets annually to discuss current and future activities, emergent technologies of interest, and other related matters, in particular in relation to the global development agenda.\n\nFurthermore, the section is concerned with the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework governing space activities, and the office is actively fostering capacity-building in the area of space law and policy. In order to keep track of all objects in earth orbit, the office manages a searchable online register of objects launched into outer space, mandated under the Registration Convention.\n\nThe Space Applications Section works on building capacities in the practical application of space technology and space-derived information for development. The Programme concentrates its efforts on ensuring the equal access of all countries to new space-based technologies, especially developing nations. To facilitate the capacity building with focus on developing countries, the office provides three initiatives:\n\n\nThe Programme also focuses efforts on the potential of space-based information for disaster management and emergency response. The UN-SPIDER programme (established 2006) helps to achieve this objective by being a gateway to space information for disaster management support, serving as a bridge to connect the disaster management and space communities and being a facilitator of capacity-building and institutional strengthening, in particular for developing countries.\n\nThe International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (ICG) promotes voluntary cooperation on matters of mutual interest related to civil satellite-based positioning, navigation, timing, and value-added services. To support the work of ICG, the Office was designated as the Executive Secretariat of ICG. In that capacity, UNOOSA is organizing regional workshops, training courses, and international meetings focusing on capacity-building in the use of GNSS-related technologies in various rapidly growing fields of science and industry.\n\nCitizens of more than 50 countries have served as staff members, consultants, and interns.\n\nStaff members of the Office have a wide range of educational backgrounds, including space science (including interdisciplinary fields), physics, engineering, computer science, political science, international affairs, and law (including public international law and space law).\n\nBefore Simonetta Di Pippo became Director of the Office (2014), she was Director of Human Spaceflight at the European Space Agency. Mr. Niklas Hedman serves as Chief of the Committee, Policy and Legal Affairs Section Mr Luc St-Pierre as Chief of the Space Applications Section.\n\nAt different times, a number of other distinguished people, including Adigun Ade Abiodun, Vladimír Kopal, Mazlan Binti Othman, Luboš Perek, Nandasiri Jasentuliyana, and Takao Doi served at various positions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "960088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960088", "title": "Whitehouse v Lemon", "text": "Whitehouse v Lemon\n\nWhitehouse v Lemon is a 1977 court case involving the blasphemy law in the United Kingdom.\nJames Kirkup's poem \"The Love that Dares to Speak its Name\" was published in the 3 June 1976 issue of \"Gay News\". The poem, written from the viewpoint of a Roman centurion, graphically describes him having sex with Jesus after his crucifixion, and also claims that Jesus had had sex with numerous disciples, guards, and even Pontius Pilate.\n\nIn early November 1976, Mary Whitehouse obtained a copy of the poem and announced her intention to bring a private prosecution against the magazine. Leave to bring this prosecution was granted on 9 December 1976. The charges named Gay News Ltd and Denis Lemon as the publishers. A charge against Moore Harness Ltd for distributing was subsequently dropped. The indictment described the offending publication as \"a blasphemous libel concerning the Christian religion, namely an obscene poem and illustration vilifying Christ in his life and in his crucifixion\".\n\nThe Gay News Fighting Fund was set up in December 1976. Judge Alan King-Hamilton QC heard the trial at the Old Bailey on 4 July 1977, with John Mortimer QC and Geoffrey Robertson QC representing the accused and John Smyth representing Mary Whitehouse. On Monday 11 July, the jury found both defendants guilty. Gay News Ltd was fined £1,000. Denis Lemon was fined £500 and sentenced to nine months' imprisonment suspended. It had been \"touch and go\", said the judge, whether he would actually send Denis Lemon to jail.\n\nMary Whitehouse's costs of £7,763 were ordered to be paid four-fifths by Gay News Ltd and one-fifth by Lemon. Gay News Ltd and Denis Lemon appealed against conviction and sentence. On 17 March 1978, the Court of Appeal quashed Denis Lemon's suspended prison sentence but upheld the convictions on the basis that the law of blasphemy had been developed before \"mens rea\", literally, a \"guilty mind\", became an essential element of a crime. \"Gay News\" readers voted by a majority of 20 to 1 in favour of appealing to the House of Lords. The Law Lords heard the appeal against conviction and delivered their judgement on 21 February 1979.\n\nAt issue was whether or not the offence of blasphemous libel required specific intent of committing such a blasphemy. By a majority of 3 to 2, the Lords concluded that intention was not required. Lord Scarman was of the opinion that blasphemy laws should cover all religions and not just Christianity and sought strict liability for those who \"cause grave offence to the religious feelings of some of their fellow citizens or are such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely to read them\". The appeal was lost.\n\nThe European Commission of Human Rights declared the case inadmissible to be heard by the European Court of Human Rights on 7 May 1982. The £26,435 raised by the Gay News Fighting Fund through benefits and donations from the gay community and others, including a £500 donation from Monty Python, was sufficient to cover the costs of the trial and appeals.\n\nBlasphemous libel ceased to be a common law offence in England and Wales with the passing of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2405025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2405025", "title": "Yarankash", "text": "Yarankash\n\nYarankash (or Yaranqash) (died 1146) was a Frankish slave who assassinated his owner Zengi, the atabeg of the Seljukn city of Aleppo. According to Damascene chronicler Ibn al-Qalanisi:\n\nYaranqash stabbed the atabeg numerous times and then fled to the fortress of Dawsar, and then from there to Damascus, \"in the confident belief that he would be secure there, openly putting forward his action as a claim to consideration, and imagining that he would be made welcome.\" The governor, Mu'in ad-Din Unur, instead had him arrested and sent him to Zengi's son Nur ad-Din in Aleppo. Nur ad-Din sent him along to his brother Saif ad-Din Ghazi I in Mosul, who had him executed.\n\n"}
