{"id": "2492179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2492179", "title": "Aeschynite-(Nd)", "text": "Aeschynite-(Nd)\n\nAeschynite-(Nd) is a rare earth mineral of neodymium, cerium, calcium, thorium, titanium, niobium, oxygen, and hydrogen with formula: (Nd,Ce,Ca,Th)(Ti,Nb)(O,OH). Its name comes from the Greek word for \"shame\". Its Mohs scale rating is 5 to 6. It is a member of the hydroxide minerals.\n\nIt was first reported for an occurrence in Bayan Obo Inner Mongolia in 1982. In that rare earth mining deposit it occurs in veins within metamorphosed dolomite and slate. It occurs associated with aegirine, riebeckite, barite, fluorite, albite, phlogopite and magnetite.\n\n"}
{"id": "51507225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51507225", "title": "All Tomorrows", "text": "All Tomorrows\n\nAll Tomorrows is a science fiction novel written and illustrated by the Turkish artist C. M. Kosemen, under the pen name Nemo Ramjet. It tells the journey of the evolution of human race over the next billion years, counting from the date man colonized the solar system, to their galactic dominance and ultimate disappearance.\n\nThe story starts with the world more or less as it is known in the early 21st century. Then, it describes the colonization of Mars. The Martian society begins as a colony of Earth, but asserts its independence in a war rather similar to the American Revolution. After the war a new human species, the Star People are created. These perfected humans colonize the entire Solar Systems and many others, but are eventually destroyed by the Qu, an insect-like expansionist species who excel at nanotechnology and genetic engineering. The Qu manipulate human DNA and revert the Star People to animal status. Some of the new post-human species eventually evolve sentience again, only to fall prey to sentient machines developed by one of them. The machines are however defeated by the Astromorphs – descendants of Star People who escaped the Qu into interstellar space and developed enormous brains, such as are possible only in a weightless environment. A galactic utopia follows until all the post-human civilizations mysteriously disappear.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30522000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30522000", "title": "Beaver Hills (Alberta)", "text": "Beaver Hills (Alberta)\n\nThe Beaver Hills (), also known as the Beaver Hills Moraine and the Cooking Lake Moraine, are a rolling upland region in Central Alberta, just to the east of Edmonton, the provincial capital. It consists of of \"knob and kettle\" terrain, containing many glacial moraines and depressions filled with small lakes. The landform lies partly within five different counties, Strathcona, Leduc, Beaver, Lamont and Camrose. The area is relatively undeveloped compared to the surrounding region, and is protected by in part by Elk Island National Park, the Cooking Lake–Blackfoot Provincial Recreation Area, the Ministik Bird Sanctuary, Miquelon Lake Provincial Park and a number of smaller provincial natural areas.\n\nThe \"hills\" are very low and not very prominent, as the region is actually just a slight rise above the surrounding region which also happens to be rough and rolling due to a different history during the end of the last ice age. Being at a slightly higher elevation, the bedrock in what would become the hills only briefly covered by glacial Lake Edmonton, which deposited a thick layer of silt on the rest of the region, the basis of the modern agricultural soils now found in the areas around the hills, but left mostly gravel and boulder-sized debris on the hills, along with much water in the depressions left behind by ice and stone during the preceding glacial era.\n\nThe vegetation is typically of part of the dry mixedwood boreal forest natural subregion, a transitional zone on the south edge of the boreal forest, but is surrounded by aspen parkland. This island of boreal forest in the south means that both boreal animal species (moose, black bear, Canada lynx) and grassland animal species (sharp-tailed grouse, mule deer) live in the region. Nearby landscapes include Beaverhill Lake just to the east, and the North Saskatchewan River to the north.\n\nAs a well wooded and watered area near to more open grasslands, the Beaver Hills were an important camping place for nomadic peoples making a seasonal migration between the plains and the hills. It was a place that Aboriginal people \"could replenish and recoup after spending extended periods on the plains, a place where they could hunt, fish, and gather other needed resources\". Because the hills were not ploughed under, unlike the rest of region, much archaeological evidence remains here, including 227 Native sites recorded by Parks Canada in Elk Island Park alone.\n\nThe Sarcee are the first ethnic group known to have inhabited the region in the period after European contact (and thus the beginning of a written historical record). Sometime before 1800 Cree people migrating from the east displaced the Sacree from the hills onto the plains. The Cree called the region Amiskwaciy, which literally means \"beaver hills\" and is the origin of the region's later names in French, and then English. The Cree pursued an economy based around trapping and trading with Euro-Canadian fur companies as well as the more traditional forms of hunting gathering, and fishing. The Cree also adopted buffalo hunting techniques from plains peoples to the south, including the use of buffalo pounds. The beaver and other game species in the area eventually became trapped out, and they largely abandoned the area as a permanent home, though continued to travel through the area.\n\nTwo major Aboriginal and fur trade trails border the hills, the Victoria Trail to the north and the Battle River Trail to the south. The Beaver Hills are mentioned in Euro-Canadian records as early as Peter Fidler's sketches of 1793. David Thompson's map of 1814 mentions the hills prominently as place of refuge for both the Sarcee and Cree. They are also reported on by the Palliser Expedition of the 1850s and by Joseph B. Tyrell of the Geological Survey of Canada in the 1880s.\n\nThis is one of oldest protected areas in Canada, having originally been a forest reserve set aside by the federal Department of the Interior in 1892, during the homesteading era. It was formalized as the Cooking Lake Forest Reserve in 1899, the first such reserve in Canada. A part of the reserve was given further protection in 1906 as Elk Park, later to become Elk Island National Park. In 1930, Crown lands in Alberta passed from the federal government to the provincial government, Elk Park became formalized as a national park while the rest of the Cooking Lake Forest Reserve became a provincial responsibility.\n\nIn 2002 the Beaver Hills Initiative was created to coordinate land-use planning in the municipalities in the area surrounding the protected parks. This resulted in a scheme of tradable development credits. In 2006 the area became recognized as a dark sky preserve by the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada. In 2016 it was named a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "11708788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11708788", "title": "Biotic component", "text": "Biotic component\n\nBiotic components or biotic factors, can be described as any living component that affects another organism, or shapes the ecosystem. This includes both animals that consume other organisms within their ecosystem, and the organism that is being consumed. Biotic factors also include human influence, pathogens, and disease outbreaks. Each biotic factor needs the proper amount of energy and nutrition to function day to day. \n\nBiotic components are typically sorted into three main categories:\n\n\nNearly all species are influenced by biotic factors in one way or another. If the number of predators was to increase, the entire food chain would be affected as any prey falling below that specified predator in the food chain will become prey. If the prey is not given enough time by the predator to repopulate, this could not only cause endangerment and extinction in the prey, but the predator as well. Contradicting a decrease in population size, if a particular species reproduces too rapidly, this will cause an increase in population size, thus affecting the environment around them. \n\nWhen disease outbreaks occur, it can be detrimental to an ecosystem. When a disease hits, it will usually affect more than one species, thus causing a serious outbreak. This has the potential to set off a chain reaction thus, causing endangerment to a variety of species within that ecosystem. \n\nHumans make the most sudden and long-term changes in an environment (e.g. pollution and waste). These changes either drive species out of their territory or force them to adapt to their new surroundings. These changes have the largest impact on an ecosystems population size, typically causing a serious decrease.\n\nBiotic components are the living things that shape an ecosystem. Examples of biotic components include animals, plants, fungi, and bacteria. Abiotic components are non-living components that influence an ecosystem. Examples of abiotic factors are temperature, air currents, and minerals.\n\nThe factors mentioned above may either cause an increase or decrease in population size depending on the organism and ecosystem in question. \n\n"}
{"id": "6304332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6304332", "title": "Blanket bog", "text": "Blanket bog\n\nBlanket bog or blanket mire, also known as featherbed bog, is an area of peatland, forming where there is a climate of high rainfall and a low level of evapotranspiration, allowing peat to develop not only in wet hollows but over large expanses of undulating ground. The blanketing of the ground with a variable depth of peat gives the habitat type its name. Blanket bogs are found extensively throughout the northern hemisphere - well-studied examples are found in Ireland and Britain, but vast areas of the Russian and North American tundra also qualify as blanket bogs.\n\nIn the southern hemisphere they are less well-developed due to the relatively low latitudes of the main land areas, though similar environments are reported in Patagonia, the Falkland Islands and New Zealand. The blanket bogs known as 'featherbeds' on subantarctic Macquarie Island occur on raised marine terraces; they may be up to 5 m deep, tremble or quake when walked on and can be hazardous to cross. It is doubtful whether the extremely impoverished flora of Antarctica is sufficiently well developed to be considered as blanket bogs.\n\nIn some areas of Europe, the spread of blanket bogs is traced to deforestation by prehistoric cultures.\n\nIn many areas peat is cultivated as a fossil fuel and used either in electricity generation or domestic solid fuel for heating. In the Republic of Ireland a state owned agency, Bord na Móna, owns large areas of bog land and harvests peat for electricity generation but that peat is mainly from the raised bogs in the central plains. Bord na Móna used to burn peat in the peat fired generating station at Bellacorick but that closed down many years ago and the area now houses a large windfarm.\n\nSome blanket bogs are now preserved by government organisations in both Ireland and Britain, as this habitat is now under threat from extensive harvesting. Examples of protected blanket bogs include Sliabh Beagh, Bellacorick and Airds Moss.\n\n"}
{"id": "5639875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5639875", "title": "Borneo peat swamp forests", "text": "Borneo peat swamp forests\n\nThe Borneo peat swamp forests ecoregion, within the tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests biome, are on the island of Borneo, which is divided between Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia.\n\nPeat swamp forests occur where waterlogged soils prevent dead leaves and wood from fully decomposing, which over time creates thick layer of acidic peat. The peat swamp forests on Borneo occur in the Indonesian state of Kalimantan, the Malaysian state of Sarawak and in the Belait District of Brunei on coastal lowlands, built up behind the brackish mangrove forests and bounded by the Borneo lowland rain forests on better-drained soils. There are also areas of inland river-fed peat forest at higher elevations in central Kalimantan around the Mahakam Lakes and Lake Sentarum on the Kapuas River. Borneo has a tropical monsoon climate.\n\nOver the past decade, the government of Indonesia has drained over 1 million hectares of the Borneo peat swamp forests for conversion to agricultural land under the Mega Rice Project (MRP). Between 1996 and 1998, more than 4,000 km of drainage and irrigation channels were dug, and deforestation accelerated in part through legal and illegal logging and in part through burning. The water channels, and the roads and railways built for legal forestry, opened up the region to illegal forestry. In the MRP area, forest cover dropped from 64.8% in 1991 to 45.7% in 2000, and clearance has continued since then. It appears that almost all the marketable trees have now been removed from the areas covered by the MRP. What happened was not what had been expected: the channels drained the peat forests rather than irrigating them. Where the forests had often flooded up to 2m deep in the rainy season, now their surface is dry at all times of the year. The Indonesian government has now abandoned the MRP.\n\nFires were used in an attempt to create agricultural lands, including large palm tree plantations to supply palm oil. The dried-out peat ignites easily and also burns underground, travelling unseen beneath the surface to break out in unexpected locations. Therefore, after drainage, fires ravaged the area, destroying remaining forest and large numbers of birds, animals, reptiles and other wildlife along with new agriculture, even damaging nature reserves such as Muara Kaman and filling the air above Borneo and beyond with dense smoke and haze and releasing enormous quantities of CO into the atmosphere. The destruction had a major negative impact on the livelihoods of people in the area. It caused major smog-related health problems amongst half a million people, who suffered from respiratory problems.\n\nThe dry years of 1997-8 and 2002-3 (see El Niño) in particular saw huge fires in the drained and drying-out peat swamp forests. A study for the European Space Agency found that the peat swamp forests are a significant carbon sink for the planet, and that the fires of 1997-8 may have released up to 2.5 billion tonnes, and the 2002-3 fires between 200 million to 1 billion tonnes, of carbon into the atmosphere. Using satellite images from before and after the 1997 fires, scientists calculated (Page \"et al\", 2002) that of the that had burned 91.5% was peatland . Using ground measurements of the burn depth of peat, they estimated that 0.19–0.23 gigatonnes (Gt) of carbon were released into the atmosphere through peat combustion, with a further 0.05 Gt released from burning of the overlying vegetation. Extrapolating these estimates to Indonesia as a whole, they estimated that between 0.81 and 2.57 Gt of carbon were released to the atmosphere in 1997 as a result of burning peat and vegetation in Indonesia. This is equivalent to 13–40% of the mean annual global carbon emissions from fossil fuels, and contributed greatly to the largest annual increase in atmospheric CO concentration detected since records began in 1957.\n\nIndonesia is currently the world's third largest carbon emitter, to a large extent due to the destruction of its ancient peat swamp forests (Pearce 2007).\n\nAbout 62% of the world's tropical peat lands occur in the Indo-Malayan region (80% in Indonesia, 11% in Malaysia, 6% in Papua New Guinea, with small pockets and remnants in Brunei, Vietnam, the Philippines and Thailand). They are unusual ecosystems, with trees up to 70 m high - vastly different from the peat lands of the north temperate and boreal zones (which are dominated by Sphagnum mosses, grasses, sedges and shrubs). The spongy, unstable, waterlogged, anaerobic beds of peat can be up to 20 m deep with low pH (pH 2.9 – 4) and low nutrients, and the forest floor is seasonally flooded. The water is stained dark brown by the tannins that leach from the fallen leaves and peat – hence the name ‘blackwater swamps’. During the dry season, the peat remains waterlogged and pools remain among the trees.\n\nDespite the extreme conditions the Borneo peat swamp forests have as many as 927 species of flowering plants and ferns recorded (In comparison, a biodiversity study in the Pekan peat swamp forest in Peninsular Malaysia reported 260 plant species). Patterns of forest type can be seen in circles from the centre of the swamps to their outer fringes which are made up of most of the tree families recorded in lowland dipterocarp forests although many species are only found here . Many trees have buttresses and stilt roots for support in the unstable substrate, and pneumatophores and hoop roots and knee roots to facilitate gas exchange. The trees have thick, root mats in the upper 50 cm of the peat to enable oxygen and nutrient uptake.\n\nThe lowland peat swamps of Borneo are mostly geologically recent (<5000 years old), low-lying coastal formations above marine muds and sands but some of the lakeside peat forests of Kalimantan are up to 11,000 years old.\n\nOne reason for the low nutrient conditions is that streams and rivers do not flow into these forests (if they did, nutrient rich freshwater swamps would result), water only flows out of them, so the only input of nutrients is from rainfall, marine aerosols and dust. In order to cope with the lack of nutrients, the plants invest heavily in defences against herbivores such as chemical (toxic secondary compounds) and physical defences (tough leathery leaves, spines and thorns). It is these defences that prevent the leaves from decaying and so they build up as peat. Although the cellular contents quickly leach out of the leaves when they fall, the physical structure is resistant to both bacterial and fungal decomposition and so remains intact, slowly breaking down to form peat (Yule and Gomez 2008). This is in stark contrast to the lowland dipterocarp forests where leaf decomposition is extremely rapid, resulting in very fast nutrient cycling on the forest floor. If non-endemic leaf species are placed in the peat swamp forests, they break down quite quickly, but even after one year submerged in the swamp, endemic species remain virtually unchanged (Yule and Gomez 2008). The only nutrients available for the trees are thus the ones that leach from the leaves when they fall, and these nutrients are rapidly absorbed by the thick root mat. It was previously assumed that the low pH and anaerobic conditions of the tropical peat swamps meant that bacteria and fungi could not survive, but recent studies have shown diverse and abundant communities (albeit not nearly as diverse as dry land tropical rainforests, or freshwater swamps) (Voglmayr and Yule 2006; Jackson, Liew and Yule 2008).\n\nThese forests are home to wildlife including gibbons, orangutans, and crocodiles. In particular the riverbanks of the swamps are important habitats for the crab-eating macaque (\"Macaca fascicularis\") and the silvery lutung (\"Presbytis cristata\") and are the main habitat of Borneo's unique and endangered proboscis monkey (\"Nasalis larvatus\") which can swim well in the rivers, and the Borneo roundleaf bat (\"Hipposideros doriae\"). There are two birds endemic to the peat forests, the Javan white-eye (\"Zosterops flavus\") and the hook-billed bulbul (\"Setornis criniger\") while more than 200 species of birds have been recorded in Tanjung Puting National Park in Kalimantan. Rivers of the peat swamps are home to the rare arowana fish (\"Scleropages formosus\"), otters, waterbirds, false gharials and crocodiles.\nAnother small species of fish, are the Parosphromenus which are also extremely endangered. The parosphromenus species are small fish of extreme beauty.\n\nAttempts at preservation have been minimal in comparison to recent devastation while commercial logging of peat swamp forest in Sarawak is ongoing and planned to intensify in Brunei. One plan by the environmental NGO Borneo Orangutan Survival is to preserve the peat swamp forest of Mawas using a combination of carbon finance and debt-for-nature-swap. Peatland conservation and rehabilitation are more efficient undertakings than reducing deforestation (in terms of claiming carbon credits through REDD initiatives) due to the much larger reduced emissions achievable per unit area and the much lower opportunity costs involved. About 6% of the original peat-forest area is contained within protected areas, the largest of which are Tanjung Puting and Sabangau National Parks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12025137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12025137", "title": "British Tortricoid Moths", "text": "British Tortricoid Moths\n\nBritish Tortricoid Moths is a two-volume publication by John David Bradley, W. G. Tremewan and Arthur Smith, published by the Ray Society. It is the standard work on the tortricoid moths of Britain.\n\nVolume 1 (), viii + 251 pages, with a green dustjacket, published in 1973, covered the Cochylinae and the Tortricinae. \n\nVolume 2 (), viii + 336 pages, with a blue dustjacket, published in 1979, covered the Olethreutinae.\n\nThe two volumes include colour plates, containing painted illustrations of set specimens by Brian Hargreaves of the species covered. \n\nThe work was reproduced in CD format by Pisces publications in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "23609827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23609827", "title": "Broken-Boosey State Park", "text": "Broken-Boosey State Park\n\nBroken-Boosey State Park is a linear corridor along sections of Nine Mile Creek, Boosey Creek, and Broken Creek, between Shepparton and Tocumwal, in Victoria's north. It covers , and was declared in 2002. It protects some of the few remaining stands of native vegetation in this part of Victoria, including threatened species such as coolibah grass, spiny-fruit saltbush and pepper grass.\n"}
{"id": "37921471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37921471", "title": "Collision between MV Testbank and MV Seadaniel", "text": "Collision between MV Testbank and MV Seadaniel\n\nThe collision between MV \"Testbank\" and MV \"Seadaniel\" took place in the Mississippi River – Gulf Outlet Canal (MRGO) on July 22, 1980 when the outbound German container ship \"Testbank\" and inbound Panamanian-flagged bulk carrier \"Seadaniel\" collided near mile 41 of the canal.\n\nAs a result of the collision, some hazardous cargo from \"Testbank\" was released. Specifically, four cargo containers carrying mixed freight were lost overboard, releasing a significant amount of pentachlorophenol (PCP) into the canal waters. The amount of PCP lost was reported as between 12 and 12.5 tons. There were two other damaged containers containing PCP reported on the deck of \"Testbank\". In addition, a number of barrels containing hydrobromic acid were lost overboard, and others broke open and spilled onto the deck of \"Testbank\", creating a cloud of gas around both ships. Crews were able to clean up the hydrobromic acid within a few days, but the PCP proved to be a greater challenge. Stored in paper sacks, the coarse granules of PCP rapidly sank to the bottom of the channel where visibility was nearly zero. Chemical analysis of the PCP product revealed primarily PCP, tetrachlorphenol and trichlorophenol. Notably, the product also contained several polychlorinated dibenzodioxins, which are known for their toxicity and bioaccumulation. At the time, this was the largest spill of pentachlorophenol in United States history. The United States Coast Guard closed the canal until August 10, 1980. Additionally, all fishing and shrimping operations in a area were temporarily suspended.\n\nThe Coast Guard ultimately attributed the collision to the helmsman aboard \"Seadaniel\", who was evidently having difficulty controlling the ship immediately before the collision, and failed to notify the ship's pilot, captain or first mate. A length of the canal was closed for six weeks as an estimated $2 million cleanup effort managed to clean up some 90% of the spill. The Port of New Orleans lost $1.5 million in revenue, while the vessels involved in the collision sustained $1.5 million in damage.\n\nIn \"Louisiana ex rel. Guste v. M/V Testbank\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit heard the consolidated claims of some forty-one lawsuits originally filed in the Eastern District of Louisiana. The claims in these suits stemmed from what the court held were pure economic losses in \"shipping interests, marina and boat rental operators, wholesale and retail seafood enterprises not actually engaged in fishing, seafood restaurants, tackle and bait shops, and recreational fishermen\". The court examined the holding in \"Robins Dry Dock & Repair Co. v. Flint\", 275 U.S. 303 (1927).\n\n\"Testbank\" was chartered by the Bank Line and owned by the Partenreederei MS \"Charlotta\". She was a three-hold container ship, built in 1978, diesel powered, with a single right-hand propeller. She measured in length, in breadth, , and . She had a capacity of 517 twenty-foot equivalent units, and operated at a speed of . \"Seadaniel\" was owned and operated by Fortune Sea Transport of Panama. She was a six-hold bulk carrier, built in 1976, diesel powered, with a single screw. She measured in length, in breadth, , and . \"Seadaniel\" was carrying baryte at the time of the collision.\n"}
{"id": "27612945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27612945", "title": "Cyclic ozone", "text": "Cyclic ozone\n\nCyclic ozone is a theoretically predicted form of ozone. Like ordinary ozone (O), it would have three oxygen atoms. It would differ from ordinary ozone in how those three oxygen atoms are arranged. In ordinary ozone, the atoms are arranged in a bent line; in cyclic ozone, they would form an equilateral triangle.\n\nSome of properties of cyclic ozone have been predicted theoretically. It should have more energy than ordinary ozone.\n\nThere is evidence that tiny quantities of cyclic ozone exist at the surface of magnesium oxide crystals in air. Cyclic ozone has not been made in bulk, although at least one researcher has attempted to do so using lasers. Another possibility to stabilize this form of oxygen is to produce it inside confined spaces, e.g., fullerene.\n\nIt has been speculated that, if cyclic ozone could be made in bulk, and if it proved to have good stability properties, it could be added to liquid oxygen to improve the specific impulse of rocket fuel.\n\nCurrently, the possibility of cyclic ozone is confirmed within diverse theoretical approaches.\n"}
{"id": "28437161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28437161", "title": "Earth Economics", "text": "Earth Economics\n\nEarth Economics is a 501c3 non-profit headquartered in Tacoma, Washington, United States. The organization uses natural capital valuation to help decision makers and local stakeholders understand the value of natural capital assets. By identifying, monetizing, and valuing natural capital and ecosystem services, Earth Economics helps communities and organizations make sound investment and policy decisions that mitigate risk, add value, and build resilience. The organization has a small in-house staff of economists that collaborate with experts in economics, ecology, hydrology, policy and systems modeling.\n\nEarth Economics' current mission states, \"We quantify and value the benefits nature provides. Our work drives effective decisions and systemic change through a combination of education, natural capital analysis, and policy recommendations.\"\n\nAccording to its website, Earth Economics offers \"a pragmatic, collaborative approach to help organizations make sound investment and policy decisions that mitigate risk, add value, and build resilience by taking nature into account.\" The organization currently focuses on the global and regional priorities of working lands, freshwater, oceans, forests, and communities.\n\nEarth Economics offers five types of services: \n\nOriginally known as the Asia-Pacific Environmental Exchange (APEX), the organization was founded as a project of The Tides Center. The initial co-founders were David Batker, Jim Puckett, Annie Leonard, Joshua Farley, Joshua Reyneveld, and Isabel De La Torre. Earth Economics evolved into an autonomous organization and received IRS 501(c)3 tax exempt, public charity status in March 2006.\n\nFrom 2006 until 2016, co-founder David Batker acted as Earth Economics' Executive Director and Chief Economist. In 2016, Batker moved to a joint President and Chief Economist position. Batker's research and advocacy focuses on the value that natural systems have in providing food, water, flood risk reduction, climate stabilization, and other benefits. His work has been used to establish the value of watersheds and new funding mechanisms for maintaining natural capital.\n\nEarth Economics has a track record of working alongside NGOs, businesses, and governmental organizations to inform investment and shift local and international policy in ways that account for the benefits of ecosystem services. Since 2013, Earth Economics has been working to incorporate ecosystem services in federal benefit-cost analysis and accounting practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "16657323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16657323", "title": "Energy in Germany", "text": "Energy in Germany\n\nEnergy in Germany is sourced predominantly by fossil fuels, followed by nuclear power, biomass (wood and biofuels), wind, hydro and solar.\n\nThe German economy is large and developed, ranking fourth in the world by GDP. Because of this, Germany ranked sixth in global energy consumption between 2004 and 2007. Germany was Europe's largest consumer of electricity in 2002; electricity consumption that year totaled 512.9 terawatt-hours. In 2013 Germany's electricity production reached 631.4 TWh.\n\nKey to Germany's energy policies and politics is the \"Energiewende\", meaning \"energy turnaround\" or \"energy transformation\". Germany intends to eliminate current use of nuclear power by 2022. Some plants have already been closed ahead of their intended retirement dates. It is presumed that fossil fuels, wind power, solar power, biofuels, and energy conservation will be enough to replace the existing capacity from nuclear power. The policy includes phasing out nuclear power, and progressive replacement of fossil fuels by renewables.\n\nGermany is one of the largest consumers of energy in the world. More than half of its energy is imported.\nThe country is the fifth-largest consumer of oil in the world. \nRussia, Norway, and the United Kingdom are the largest exporters of oil to Germany, in that order.\n\nGermany is the world's largest natural gas importer, as 22.6% of its primary energy use comes from gas. \nGermany imports gas from the Netherlands and Norway. \nIn addition, gas comes from Russia via the Nord Stream; in 2016, Germany imported 49.8 billion cubic metres (bcm) of gas from Gazprom. \nA terminal in Emden opened for gas from Norway in 2016.\n\nBecause of its rich coal deposits, the country has a long tradition of using coal.\nIt still is the fourth-largest consumer of coal in the world, even though domestic coal mining has been almost completely phased out, because German coal is a lot more expensive to mine than coal in China or Australia. Germany has the largest national market of electricity in Europe.\n\nThe main source of electricity is coal. The 2007 plan to build 26 new coal plants is controversial in light of Germany's commitment to curbing emissions. By 2015, the growing share of renewable energy in the national electricity market (26% in 2014, up from 4% in 1990) and the government's mandated CO emission reduction targets (40% below 1990 levels by 2020; 80% below 1990 levels by 2050) have increasingly curtailed previous plans for new, expanded coal power capacity.\n\nLignite is extracted in the extreme western and eastern parts of the country, mainly in Nordrhein-Westfalen, Sachsen and Brandenburg. Considerable amounts are burned in coal plants near the mining areas to produce electricity and transporting lignite over far distances is not economically feasible; therefore, the plants are located near the extraction sites.\n\nBituminous coal is mined in Nordrhein-Westfalen and Saarland. Most power plants burning bituminous coal operate on imported material, therefore, the plants are located not only near to the mining sites, but throughout the country.\n\nIn 2013 coal made up about 45% of Germany's electricity production (19% from hard coal and 26% from lignite). German coal-fired power plants are being designed and modified so they can be increasingly flexible to support the fluctuations resulting from increased renewable energy. Existing power plants in Germany are designed to operate flexibly. Load following is achieved by German natural gas combined cycle plants and coal-fired power plants. New coal-fired power plants have a minimum load capability of approximately 40%, with further potential to reduce this to 20–25%. The reason is that the output of the coal boiler is controlled via direct fuel combustion and not, as is the case with a gas combined-cycle power plant, via a heat recovery steam generator with an upstream gas turbine.\n\nIn 2014 Germany's coal consumption dropped, for the first time since the 2009 recession.\n\nNuclear power has been a topical political issue in recent decades, with continuing debates about when the technology should be phased out. A coalition government of Gerhard Schroeder took the decision in 2002 to phaseout all nuclear power by 2022. The topic received renewed attention at the start of 2007 due to the political impact of the Russia-Belarus energy dispute and in 2011 after the Fukushima I nuclear accidents in Japan. Within days of the March 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, large anti-nuclear protests occurred in Germany. Protests continued and, on 29 May 2011, Merkel's government announced that it would close all of its nuclear power plants by 2022. Eight of the seventeen operating reactors in Germany were permanently shut down following Fukushima in 2011. German coal consumption has risen during 2011, 2012 and 2013.\n\nChancellor Angela Merkel said the phase-out of plants, previously scheduled to go offline as late as 2036, would give Germany a competitive advantage in the renewable energy era, stating, \"As the first big industrialized nation, we can achieve such a transformation toward efficient and renewable energies, with all the opportunities that brings for exports, developing new technologies and jobs\". Merkel also pointed to Japan's \"helplessness\" – despite being an industrialized, technologically advanced nation – in the face of its nuclear disaster.\n\nIn September 2011, German engineering giant Siemens announced a complete withdrawal from the nuclear industry, as a response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster. Remaining nuclear companies in Germany are E.ON Kernkraft GmbH, Vattenfall Europe Nuclear Energy GmbH, RWE Power AG, and EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG.\n\nThe share of electricity produced from renewable energy in Germany has increased from 6.3 percent of the national total in 2000 to over 25 percent in the first half of 2012. Germany renewable power market grew from 0.8 million residential customers in 2006 to 4.9 million in 2012, or 12.5% of all private households in the country. In 2011, they purchased 15 terawatt-hours (TWh) of green power, and commercial customers bought a further 10.3 TWh. Renewable energy share of gross electricity consumption rose from 10% in 2005 to 20% in 2011. Main renewable electricity sources were in first half of 2012: Wind energy 36.6%, biomass 22.5%, hydropower 14.7%, photovoltaics (solar) 21.2% and biowaste 3.6%. Wood-fire plants fuelled by wood pellets are included in biomass. Half of Germany's timber production is consumed by wood fired plants. Wood fired plants are counted as renewable energy by Germany and the European Union counting them as \"carbon neutral\".\n\nIn 2010, investments totaling 26 billion euros were made in Germany’s renewable energies sector. Germany spends about 20 billion euros per year subsidizing renewable energy. According to official figures, some 370,000 people in Germany were employed in the renewable energy sector in 2010, especially in small and medium-sized companies. This is an increase of around 8 percent compared to 2009 (around 339,500 jobs), and well over twice the number of jobs in 2004 (160,500). About two-thirds of these jobs are attributed to the Renewable Energy Sources Act\n\nGermany has been called \"the world's first major renewable energy economy\". In the first half of 2012 25.1% of Germany's electricity supply was produced from renewable energy sources, more than the electricity generated by nuclear power stations.\n\nIn end of 2011, the cumulative installed total of renewable power was 65.7GW. Although Germany does not really have a very sunny climate, solar photovoltaic power is used massively (4% of annual electricity needs). On 25 May 2012, a Saturday, solar power reached a new record with feeding 22 GW, as much as can be produced by 20 nuclear reactors, into the German power grid. This met 50% of the nation's mid-day electricity demand on that day.\n\nIn 2016 renewable energy based electricity generation almost reached the 30% mark. That makes Renewables the most important energy source in Germany for three years in a row. Wind was the leading source at 12.3%, followed by biomass at 7.9% and solar PV at 5.9%.\n\nIn October 2016 the German Biomass Research Center (\"\") (DBFZ) launched an online biomass atlas for researchers, investors and the interested public.\n\nThe energy efficiency bottom-up index for the whole economy (ODEX) in Germany decreased by 18% between 1991–2006, which is equivalent to an energy efficiency improvement by 1.2% per annum on average based on the ODEX, which calculates technical efficiency improvements. Since the beginning of the new century, however, the efficiency improvement measured by the ODEX has slowed down. While a continuous decrease by 1.5%/y could be observed between 1991 and 2001, the decrease in the period from 2001 to 2006 only amounted to 0.5%, which is below the EU-27 level.\nBy 2050 Germany projects a 25% drop in electricity demand.\n\nGermany is the fourth-largest producer of nuclear power in the world, but in 2000, the government and the German nuclear power industry agreed to phase out all nuclear power plants by 2021, as a result of an initiative with a vote result of 513 Yes, 79 No and 8 Empty. The seven oldest reactors were permanently closed after the Fukushima accident. However, being an integral part of the EU's internal electricity market, Germany will continue to consume foreign nuclear electricity even after 2022.\nIn September 2010, Merkel's government reached a late-night deal which would see the country's 17 nuclear plants run, on average, 12 years longer than planned, with some remaining in production until well into the 2030s. Then, following Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, the government changed its mind again, deciding to proceed with the plan to close all nuclear plants in the country by 2022.\n\nGovernment policy emphasizes conservation and the development of renewable sources, such as solar, wind, biomass, water, and geothermal power. As a result of energy saving measures, energy efficiency (the amount of energy required to produce a unit of gross domestic product) has been improving since the beginning of the 1970s. The government has set the goal of meeting 80% of the country's energy demands from alternative energy by 2050.\n\nAfter becoming Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel expressed concern for overreliance on Russian energy, but she received little support from others in Berlin.\nEco tax per MWh for industry is €0.33 on natural gas and €12.3 on electricity\n\nMinor taxes are called \"Contribution to emergency storage fund\".\n\nIn September 2010, the German government announced a new aggressive energy policy with the following targets:\n\n\nForbes ranked German Aloys Wobben ($3B), founder of Enercon, as the richest person in the energy business (wind power) in Germany in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7635170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7635170", "title": "Energy in the United States", "text": "Energy in the United States\n\nThe United States was the second-largest energy consumer in 2010 (after China) considering total use. The nation is ranked seventh in energy consumption per-capita after Canada and several small nations. Not included is the significant amount of energy used overseas in the production of retail and industrial goods consumed in the U.S.\n\nMost of this energy comes from fossil fuels: in 2010, data showed that 25% of the nation's energy originates from petroleum, 22% from coal, and 22% from natural gas. Nuclear power supplied 8.4% and renewable energy supplied 8%, mainly from hydroelectric dams and biomass; however, this also includes other renewable sources like wind power, geothermal, and solar energy. As of 2006, energy consumption had increased more rapidly than domestic energy production over the last 50 years in the nation (when they were roughly equal). This difference was largely met through imports.\n\nAccording to the Energy Information Administration's statistics, the per-capita energy consumption in the US has somewhat been consistent from the 1970s to the present time. The average was about 334 million British thermal units (BTUs) per person from 1980 to 2010. One explanation suggested that the energy required to increase the nation's consumption of manufactured equipment, cars, and other goods has been shifted to other countries producing and transporting those goods to the US with a corresponding shift of green house gases and pollution. In comparison, the world average increased from 63.7 in 1980 to 75 million BTUs per person in 2008.\n\nFrom its founding until the late 18th century, the United States was a largely agrarian country with abundant forests. During this period, energy consumption overwhelmingly focused on readily available firewood. Rapid industrialization of the economy, urbanization, and the growth of railroads led to increased use of coal, and by 1885 it had eclipsed wood as the nation's primary energy source.\n\nCoal remained dominant for the next seven decades, but by 1950, it was surpassed in turn by both petroleum and natural gas. The 1973 oil embargo precipitated an energy crisis in the United States. In 2007, coal consumption was the highest it has ever been, with it mostly being used to generate electricity. Natural gas has replaced coal as the preferred source of heating in homes, businesses and industrial furnaces, which burns cleaner and is easier to transport.\n\nAlthough total energy use increased by approximately a factor of 50 between 1850 and 2000, energy use per capita increased only by a factor of four.\nAs of 2009, United States per capita energy use had declined to 7075 (kilograms of oil-equivalent), 12% less than 2000, and in 2010 to levels not seen since the 1960s.\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, petroleum was a minor resource used to manufacture lubricants and fuel for kerosene and oil lamps. \nOne hundred years later it had become the preeminent energy source for the United States and the rest of the world. \nThis rise closely paralleled the emergence of the automobile as a major force in American culture and the economy.\n\nWhile petroleum is also used as a source for plastics and other chemicals, and powers various industrial processes, today two-thirds of oil consumption in the U.S. is in the form of its derived transportation fuels. \nOil's unique qualities for transportation fuels in terms of energy content, cost of production, and speed of refueling all contributed to it being used over other fuels.\n\nIn June 2010, the American Energy Innovation Council, a group which includes Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft; Jeffrey R. Immelt, chief executive of General Electric; and John Doerr, has urged the government to more than triple spending on energy research and development, to $16 billion a year. \nGates endorsed the administration's goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent by 2050, but said that was not possible with today's technology or politicism. He said that the only way to find such disruptive new technology was to pour large sums of money at the problem. The group notes that the federal government spends less than $5 billion a year on energy research and development, not counting one-time stimulus projects. About $30 billion is spent annually on health research and more than $80 billion on military research and development. They advocate a jump in spending on basic energy research.\n\nNote: Sum of components may not equal 100 percent due to independent rounding.\n\nPrimary energy use in the United States was 25,155 TWh or about 81,800 kWh per person in 2009. \nPrimary energy use was 1,100 TWh less in the United States than in China in 2009. \nThe share of energy import was 26% of the primary energy use. \nThe energy import declined about 22% and the annual CO2 emissions about 10% in 2009 compared to 2004.\n\nOil is one of the largest sources of energy in the United States.\nThe United States influences world oil reserves for both growth and development. \nAs the 20th century progressed, petroleum gained increasing importance by providing heating and power to the commercial and industrial sectors. Oil was also used in transportation; first for railroads and later for motor vehicles.\n\nAs automobiles became more affordable, demand for oil quickly rose. \nSince the rise of the automobile industry, oil price, demand, and production have all increased as well. Between 1900 and 1980, fuel was directly correlated with Gross National Product (GNP). Furthermore, oil shocks have often coincided with recessions, and the government has responded to oil shocks in several ways. In the 1920s, oil prices were peaking and many commentators believed that oil supplies were running out. Congress was confronted by requests to augment supplies, so a generous depletion allowance was enacted for producers in 1926, which increased investment returns substantially. This change induced additional exploration activity, and subsequently the discovery of large new oil reservoirs.\n\nThe next decade the situation was reversed, with prices low and dropping. This resulted in demands for more \"orderly\" competition and set minimum oil prices. Rather than repealing the previous policies enacted in the 1920s, Congress enacted a price-support system. Similar cycles have occurred in the 1950s and '70s.\n\nNatural gas was the largest source of energy production in the United States in 2016, representing 33 percent of all energy produced in the country. \nNatural gas has been the largest source of electrical generation in the United States since July 2015.\n\nThe United States has been the world's largest producer of natural gas since 2009, when it surpassed Russia. \nUS Natural gas production achieved new record highs for each year from 2011 through 2015. \nMarketed natural gas production in 2015 was 28.8 trillion cubic feet, a 5.4% increase over 2014, and a 52% increase over the production of 18.9 trillion cubic feet per day in 2005.\n\nBecause of the greater supply, consumer prices for natural gas are significantly lower in the United States than in Europe and Japan. \nThe low price of natural gas, together with its smaller carbon footprint compared to coal, has encouraged a rapid growth in electricity generated from natural gas.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2014, US production of natural gas liquids (NGLs) increased 70%, from 1.74 million barrels per day in 2005 to 2.96 million barrels per day in 2014. \nThe US has been the world's leading producer of natural gas liquids since 2010, when US NGL production passed that of Saudi Arabia.\n\nAlthough the United States leads the world in natural gas production, it is only fifth in proved reserves of natural gas, behind Russia, Iran, Qatar, and Turkmenistan.\n\nGeneration of electricity is the largest user of coal, although its use is in decline. \nAbout 50% of electric power was produced by coal in 2005, declining to 30% in 2016.\nElectric utilities buy more than 90% of the coal consumed in the United States.\n\nThe United States is a net exporter of coal. Coal exports, for which Europe is the largest customer, peaked in 2012, and have declined since. \nIn 2015, the U.S. exported 7.0% of mined coal.\n\nCoal has been used to generate electricity in the United States since an Edison plant was built in New York City in 1882. \nThe first AC power station was opened by General Electric in Ehrenfeld, Pennsylvania in 1902, servicing the Webster Coal and Coke Company. \nBy the mid-20th century, coal had become the leading fuel for generating electricity in the US. \nThe long, steady rise of coal-fired generation of electricity shifted to a decline after 2007. \nThe decline has been linked to the increased availability of natural gas, decreased consumption, renewable power, and more stringent environmental regulations. \nThe Environmental Protection Agency has advanced restrictions on coal plants to counteract mercury pollution, smog, and global warming.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Energy tracks national energy consumption in four broad sectors: industrial, transportation, residential, and commercial. The industrial sector has long been the country's largest energy user, currently representing about 33% of the total. Next in importance is the transportation sector, followed by the residential and commercial sectors.\n\nHousehold energy use varies significantly across the United States. An average home in the Pacific region (consisting of California, Oregon, and Washington) consumes 35% less energy than a home in the South Central region. Some of the regional differences can be explained by climate. The heavily populated coastal areas of the Pacific states experience generally mild winters and summers, reducing the need for both home heating and air conditioning. The warm, humid climates of the South Central and South Atlantic regions lead to higher electricity usage, while the cold winters experienced in the Northeast and North Central regions result in much higher consumption of natural gas and heating oil. The state with the lowest per capita energy use is New York, at 205 million Btu/yr, and the highest is Wyoming, at slightly over 1 billion Btu/yr.\n\nOther regional differences stem from energy efficiency measures taken at the local and state levels. California has some of the strictest environmental laws and building codes in the country, leading its per-household energy consumption to be lower than all other states except Hawaii.\n\nThe land-use decisions of cities and towns also explain some of the regional differences in energy use. Townhouses are more energy efficient than single-family homes because less heat, for example, is wasted per person. Similarly, areas with more homes in a compact neighborhood encourage walking, biking and transit, thereby reducing transportation energy use. A 2011 U.S. E.P.A. study found that multi-family homes in urban neighborhoods, with well-insulated buildings and fuel-efficient cars, can save more than 2/3 of the energy used by conventionally built single-family houses in suburban areas (with standard cars).\n\nThe United States is the world's second largest producer and consumer of electricity. It consumes about 20% of the world's electricity supply. This section provides a summary of the consumption and generation of the nation's electric industry, based on data mined from US DOE Energy Information Administration/Electric Power Annual 2015 files. Data was obtained from the most recent DOE Energy Information Agency (EIA) files. Consumption is detailed from the residential, commercial, industrial, and other user communities. Generation is detailed for the major fuel sources of coal, natural gas, nuclear, petroleum, hydro, and the other renewables of wind, wood, other biomass, geothermal, and solar. Changes to the electrical energy fuel mix and other trends are identified. Progress in wind and solar contributing to the energy mix are addressed. Expected changes in the generation environment during the next 5 years are discussed.\n\nElectricity consumption data in this section is based upon data mined from US DOE Energy Information Administration/Electric Power Annual 2016 files \nIn 2016 the total US consumption of electricity was 4,137.1 terawatt-hours (TWh).\nConsumption was essentially flat from 2015, with a 6 TWh or 0.15% drop. \nThis is broken down as:\n\nA profile of the electric energy consumption for 2016 is shown in the following graph. The April minimum of 298 TWh to the July peak of 417 TWh shows the monthly range of consumption variations.\nThe following table derived from data mined from Electric Power Annual. identifies those states which must import electrical energy from neighboring states to meet their consumption needs. Each state's total electric generation for 2016 is compared with the states consumption and its share of the system loss and the difference between the generated electric energy and its total consumption (including its share of the system loss) is the amount of energy it imports. For Hawaii (HI) total consumption equals generated energy. For the other states, multiplying their direct consumption by 1.099688991 (4127150643/3753016241), results in United States supply (including net imports) being equal to the country's total consumption.\nThe following chart provides the details. The graphic shows each import states situation with respect to electric energy consumption being greater than its generation.\n\nUnited States has an installed electricity generation capacity of 1,074.3 GW.\nThe electricity generation was 4,076.8 TWh in 2016.\n\nUnited States net imports were 60.27 TWh, for a total of 4,137.1 TWh of electrical energy use. \nElectrical energy generated from coal was 1,239.15 TWh (29.95%); Natural and other Gases, 1,391.11 TWh (33.63%); Nuclear, 805.69 TWh (19.47%); Hydro, 269.81 TWh (6.47%); Renewables (other than Hydro), 341.64 TWh (8.26%); Imports less exports, 60.27 TWh (1.46%); Petroleum, 24.20 TWh (0.59%); and Misc (including pumped storage) 7.22 TWh (0.18%). \nUnited States renewable sources (hydro reported separately) are wind, 226.99 TWh (5.49%); wood, 40.95 TWh (0.99%); other biomass, 21.81 TWh (0.53% ); geothermal, 15.83 TWh (0.38%) and solar, 36.05 TWh (0.87%).\nSmall scale solar is estimated to have produced an additional 12.77 TWh. \nNatural gas electricity generation exceeded generation from coal for the first time in 2016.\n\nThe following tables summarize the electrical energy generated by fuel source for the United States. Data from Electric Power Annual 2016 was used throughout this section.\n\nNote: Biomass includes wood and wood derived fuel, landfill gas, biogenic municipal solid waste and other waste biomass.\n\nUsing the data from the US DOE Energy Information Administration/Electric Power Annual 2015 files Data was obtained from the most recent DOE Energy Information Agency (EIA) full year files.\nThe following table derived from data mined from Electric Power Annual . identifies those states which generate more electrical energy than they need to meet their consumption needs. They supply those that need additional energy. Each states total electric generation for 2016 is compared with the states consumption and its share of the system loses and the difference between the generated electric energy and its total consumption (including its share of the system loses) is the amount of energy it exports. For Hawaii (HI), total consumption equals generated energy. For the other states multiplying their direct consumption by 1.1099688991 (4127150643/3753016241) results in United States supply (including net imports) being equal to the country's total consumption usage. State export is determined by subtracting the state's total consumption from its generation.\n\nRenewable energy in the United States accounted for 13.2 percent of the domestically produced electricity in 2014, and 11.2 percent of total energy generation. As of 2014, more than 143,000 people work in the solar industry and 43 states deploy net metering, where energy utilities buy back excess power generated by solar arrays.\n\nRenewable energy reached a major milestone in the first quarter of 2011, when it contributed 11.7 percent of total U.S. energy production (2.245 quadrillion BTUs of energy), surpassing energy production from nuclear power (2.125 quadrillion BTUs). 2011 was the first year since 1997 that renewables exceeded nuclear in US total energy production.\n\nHydroelectric power is currently the largest producer of renewable power in the U.S. It produced around 6.2% of the nation's total electricity in 2010 which was 60.2% of the total renewable power in the U.S. The United States is the fourth largest producer of hydroelectricity in the world after China, Canada and Brazil. The Grand Coulee Dam is the 5th largest hydroelectric power station in the world.\n\nU.S. wind power installed capacity now exceeds 65,000 MW and supplies 4% of the nation's electricity. Texas is firmly established as the leader in wind power development, followed by Iowa and California.\n\nThe U.S. has some of the largest solar farms in the world. Solar Star is a 579 megawatt (MW) farm near Rosamond, California. The Desert Sunlight Solar Farm is a 550 MW solar power plant in Riverside County, California and the Topaz Solar Farm, a 550 MW photovoltaic power plant, is in San Luis Obispo County, California. The solar thermal SEGS group of plants in the Mojave Desert has a total generating capacity of 354 MW.\n\nThe Geysers in Northern California is the largest complex of geothermal energy production in the world.\n\nThe development of renewable energy and efficient energy use marks \"a new era of energy exploration\" in the United States, according to President Barack Obama. Studies suggest that if there is enough political will it is feasible to supply the total United States with 100% renewable energy by 2050.\n\nIn 2015 electrical energy usage in the United States was 1.6% more than in 2005 and 1% less than the peak in 2007. \nPer capita consumption has decreased about 7% since its peak in 2007 and every year since has shown a decrease in individual consumption. Conservation efforts are helping.\nAt least, for the next decade, coal, natural gas, and nuclear will remain the top three fuels for electric energy generation in the USA. Coal will continuously decrease its contribution with natural gas increasing its contribution. Nuclear will have some downs (decommissionings) and ups (new online plants) but probably remain about constant. Hydro will maintain. Petroleum will continue to decrease in importance. Wind and solar will continue to grow in importance; their combined generation was 5.29% of US electric generation for 2015 or 5.20% of total US consumption.\nFrom the beginning of the United States until 1973, total energy (including electrical) use increased by about 3%/year, while population increased an average of 2.2%/year. Per capita energy use from 1730 to 1870 was about 100 million Btu/person. In the 20th century this increased to 300 million (332 million Btu/person/year, 97 thousand kWh/person/year in 1981).\n\nIn 2001, Vice President Dick Cheney said the US would need \"at least 1,300 new power plants over the next 20 years.\"\n\nEfficiency improvements could cause energy use to drop considerably.\n\nA concentrating solar array (CSP) with thermal storage has a practical capacity factor of 33% and could provide power 24 hours a day. Prior to 2012, in six southwestern states (Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, and Utah) the US Bureau of Land Management (BLM) owned nearly 98 million acres (an area larger than the state of Montana) that was open to proposals for solar power installations. To streamline consideration of applications, the BLM produced a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS). By the subsequent Record of Decision in October 2012, the BLM withdrew 78 percent of its land from possible solar development, leaving 19 million acres still open to applications for solar installations, an area nearly as large as South Carolina. Of the area left open to solar proposals, the BLM has identified 285 thousand acres in highly favorable areas it calls Solar Energy Zones. In Spain, with natural gas backups, CSP has reached a capacity factor of 66%, with 75% being a theoretical maximum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "623501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623501", "title": "Forb", "text": "Forb\n\nA forb (sometimes spelled phorb) is an herbaceous flowering plant that is not a graminoid (grasses, sedges and rushes). The term is used in biology and in vegetation ecology, especially in relation to grasslands and understory.\n\n\"Forb\" is derived from the Greek φορβή (\"phorbḗ\"), \"pasture\" or \"fodder\". The spelling \"phorb\" is sometimes used, and in older usage this sometimes includes graminids and other plants currently not regarded as forbs.\n\nForbs are members of a guild – a group of plant species with broadly similar growth form. In certain contexts in ecology, guild membership may often be more important than the taxonomic relationships between organisms.\n\nIn addition to its use in ecology, the term \"forb\" may be used for subdividing popular guides to wildflowers, distinguishing them from other categories such as grasses, sedges, shrubs, and trees.\n\nSome examples of forbs are clover, sunflower, daylily, and milkweed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "568972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568972", "title": "Geocentric orbit", "text": "Geocentric orbit\n\nA geocentric orbit or Earth orbit involves any object orbiting Planet Earth, such as the Moon or artificial satellites. In 1997 NASA estimated there were approximately 2,465 artificial satellite payloads orbiting the Earth and 6,216 pieces of space debris as tracked by the Goddard Space Flight Center. Over 16,291 previously launched objects have decayed into the Earth's atmosphere.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of different geocentric orbit classifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14680221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14680221", "title": "Grazing marsh", "text": "Grazing marsh\n\nGrazing marsh is a British Isles term for flat, marshy grassland in polders. It consists of large grass fields separated by fresh or brackish ditches, and is often important for its wildlife.\n\nGrazing marshes were created from medieval times by building sea walls (earth banks) across tidal mudflats and salt marsh to make polders (though the term \"polder\" is little used in Britain). Polders in Britain are mostly drained by gravity, rather than active pumping. The original tidal drainage channels were augmented by new ditches, and flap valves in the sea walls let water drain out at low tide and prevent the sea or tidal river from entering at high tide. Constructing polders in this way is called \"inning\" or \"reclaiming\" from the sea.\n\nGrazing marshes have been made in most lowland estuaries in Britain, often leaving only the river channel and the lowest part of the estuary tidal. In a few cases (such as Newtown Harbour on the Isle of Wight, and Pagham Harbour in West Sussex) the sea walls have been breached, and the estuaries have returned to a tidal state. Grazing marshes have also been made on low-lying open coasts.\n\nMany grazing marshes were inned in stages, and the old sea walls (called \"counter walls\") may be found marooned far from the current sea wall. Land levels on either side of a counter wall often differ by several metres. Paradoxically, the lower side is the land inned earlier, because sediment continued to build up on the side that remained tidal.\n\nWintering wildfowl are characteristic of grazing marshes, often including large flocks of Eurasian wigeon, brent goose, white-fronted goose and Bewick's swan. Many of these birds are hunted by predators such as peregrine and marsh harrier.\n\nIn summer, waders such as common redshank, Eurasian curlew and northern lapwing breed.\n\nThe ditches often have a range of salinity, depending on how close to the sea wall they are. The more saline ditches host specialist brackish-water plants and animals. These include, for example, the rare brackish amphipod \"Gammarus insensibilis\" and sea club-rush (\"Bolboschoenus maritimus\"). Fresher ditches may support rare animals, such as the great silver water beetle (\"Hydrophilus piceus\") and the great raft spider (\"Dolomedes plantarius\"), and a wide range of pondweeds (\"Potamogeton\" and relatives).\n\nThe grassland vegetation usually has a fairly small number of species, but those present are often scarce elsewhere, such as sea arrowgrass (\"Triglochin maritimum\"), divided sedge (\"Carex divisa\") and strawberry clover \"Trifolium fragiferum\".\n\nMany grazing marshes have been converted into arable land, often using pumped drainage to lower the water levels enough to grow crops. The low ditch levels and agricultural runoff combine to remove much of the aquatic wildlife, although the arable fields may still be used by some wintering wildfowl.\n\nSome areas of grazing marsh and other polder land have been used to recreate tidal habitats by a process of managed retreat.\n\nMany of the larger areas of grazing marsh bear nature conservation designations, including Site of Special Scientific Interest, Special Protection Area, Special Area of Conservation and Ramsar Site.\n\n"}
{"id": "42112784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42112784", "title": "Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation Act of 2014", "text": "Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation Act of 2014\n\nThe Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation Act of 2014 () or HHEATT Act of 2014 is an act that created an emergency exception to existing Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) regulations. The exceptions allow truckers to drive for long hours if they are delivering home heating fuels, such as propane, to places where there is a shortage. The exemption lasts until May 31, 2014. An existing suspension was scheduled to expire on March 15, 2014.\n\nThe bill was introduced into the United States House of Representatives during the 113th United States Congress. On March 21, 2014, President Barack Obama signed the bill into law. It became .\n\nThe winter of 2013-2014 has been described as \"especially cold,\" \"exceptionally cold,\" and \"brutal.\" This cold winter \"made it a challenge to move home heating fuel quickly enough to meet increased demand.\"\n\nExisting Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration regulations require freight truckers to \"drive up to 11 hours occurring within a 14-hour period and must have at least 34 consecutive hours off every seven days.\" The FMCSA says these rules to make roads safer by preventing truck drivers from getting too tired.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation Act of 2014 or HHEATT Act of 2014 would declare that a covered emergency exemption from federal motor carrier safety regulations issued by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) shall remain in effect until May 31, 2014, unless the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) determines that the emergency for which the exemption was provided ends before that date.\n\nThe bill would define \"covered emergency exemption\" as one issued or extended between February 5, 2014, and the date of enactment of this Act to effect regulatory relief for commercial motor vehicle operations directly assisting the delivery of propane and home heating fuels.\n\nThe bill states that nothing in this Act may be construed to prohibit the FMCSA from issuing or extending a covered emergency exemption beyond May 31, 2014, under other federal law.\n\nThe Home Heating Emergency Assistance Through Transportation Act of 2014 was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on February 25, 2014 by Rep. Bill Shuster (R, PA-9). The bill was referred to the United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. On February 29, 2014, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor announced that H.R. 4076 would be considered under a suspension of the rules on March 4, 2014. The House passed the bill in a voice vote on March 4, 2014. On March 13, 2014, the United States Senate voted by unanimous consent to pass the bill. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on March 21, 2014.\n\nAccording to Majority Leader Eric Cantor, the issue of household energy costs need to be addressed because \"the Energy Information Administration predicted that 90 percent of U.S. households would see higher home heating costs this year, and low income families already spend 12 percent of their household budget on energy costs.\"\n\nRep. Shuster argued in favor of the bill saying that the bill \"will provide relief for millions of Americans suffering from the current propane and home heating fuel emergency.\" According to the Congressman, an \"exceptionally cold winter\" increased demand on propane, \"which is used for heating approximately 12 million homes in the United States.\" The bill was supposed to solve shortages and lower prices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9501027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9501027", "title": "Horse sacrifice", "text": "Horse sacrifice\n\nMany Indo-European religious branches show evidence for horse sacrifice, and comparative mythology suggests that they derive from a Proto-Indo-European (PIE) ritual.\n\nHorses are often sacrificed in a funerary context, and interred with the deceased, a practice called horse burial. There is evidence but no explicit myths from the three branches of Indo-Europeans of a major horse sacrifice ritual based on a mythical union of Indo-European kingship and the horse. The Indian Aśvamedha is the clearest evidence preserved, but vestiges from Latin and Celtic traditions allow the reconstruction of a few common attributes.\nSome scholars, including Edgar Polomé, regard the reconstruction of a PIE ritual as unjustified due to the difference between the attested traditions.\n\nThe Gaulish personal name \"Epomeduos\" is from \"ek'wo-medhu-\" (\"horse + mead\"), while \"aśvamedha\" is either from \"ek'wo-mad-dho-\" (\"horse + drunk\") or \"ek'wo-mey-dho-\" (\"horse + strength\").\n\nThe reconstructed myth involves the coupling of a king with a divine mare which produced the divine twins. A related myth is that of a hero magically twinned with a horse foaled at the time of his birth (for example Cuchulainn, Pryderi), suggested to be fundamentally the same myth as that of the divine twin horsemen by the mytheme of a \"mare-suckled\" hero from Greek and medieval Serbian evidence, or mythical horses with human traits (Xanthos), suggesting totemic identity of the Indo-European hero or king with the horse.\n\nThe Indian Ashvamedha involves the following:\n\nThe Roman \"Equus October\" ceremony involved:\n\nGeraldus Cambrensis recorded a ceremony among the Irish: \n\nThere is in a northern and remote part of Ulster, among the Kenelcunil, a certain tribe which is wont to install a king over itself by an excessively savage and abominable ritual. In the presence of all the people of this land in one place, a white mare is brought into their midst. Thereupon he who is to be elevated, not to a prince but to a beast, not to a king but to an outlaw, steps forward in beastly fashion and exhibits his bestiality. Right thereafter the mare is killed and boiled piecemeal in water, and in the same water a bath is prepared for him. He gets into the bath and eats of the flesh that is brought to him, with his people standing around and sharing it with him. He also imbibes the broth in which he is bathed, not from any vessel, nor with his hand, but only with his mouth. When this is done right according to such unrighteous ritual, his rule and sovereignty are consecrated.\n\nThe major points of comparison involve: \n\nThe Norse ceremony according to the description in \"Hervarar saga\" of the Swedish inauguration of Blot-Sweyn, the last or next to last pagan Germanic king, c. 1080: \n\nThe \"Völsa þáttr\" mentions a Norse pagan ritual involving veneration of the penis of a slaughtered stallion. A freshly cut horse head was also used in setting up a nithing pole for a Norse curse.\n\nThe primary archaeological context of horse sacrifice are burials, notably chariot burials, but graves with horse remains reach from the Eneolithic well into historical times. Herodotus describes the execution of horses at the burial of a Scythian king, and Iron Age kurgan graves known to contain horses number in the hundreds. There are also frequent deposition of horses in burials in Iron Age India. The custom is by no means restricted to Indo-European populations, but is continued by Turkic tribes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59613", "title": "Ionization energy", "text": "Ionization energy\n\nThe ionization energy (British spelling: ionisation energy) (\"E\") is qualitatively defined as the minimum amount of energy required to remove the most loosely bound electron, the valence electron, of an isolated neutral gaseous atom, molecule or ion. It is quantitatively expressed in symbols as \nwhere is any atom, molecule or ion capable of being ionized, is that atom or molecule with an electron removed, and is the removed electron. This is generally an endothermic process.\n\nGenerally, the closer the electrons are to the nucleus of the atom, the higher the atom's ionization energy.\n\nThe units for ionization energy are different in physics and chemistry. In physics, the unit is the amount of energy required to remove a single electron from a single atom or molecule: expressed as an electron volt. In chemistry, the units are the amount of energy it takes for all of the atoms in a mole of substance to lose one electron each: molar ionization energy or enthalpy, expressed as kilojoules per mole (kJ/mol) or kilocalories per mole (kcal/mol).\n\nComparison of \"E\" of atoms in the periodic table reveals two patterns:\n(The latter is due to the outer electron shell being progressively further away from the nucleus with the addition of one inner shell per row as one moves down the column.)\n\nThe \"n\"th ionization energy refers to the amount of energy required to remove an electron from the species with a charge of (\"n\"-1). For example, the first three ionization energies are defined as follows:\n\nThe term \"ionization potential\" is an older name for ionization energy, because the oldest method of measuring ionization energies was based on ionizing a sample and accelerating the electron removed using an electrostatic potential. However this term is now considered obsolete.\nSome factors affecting the ionization energy include:\n\nGenerally, the (\"n\"+1)th ionization energy is larger than the \"n\"th ionization energy. When the next ionization energy involves removing an electron from the same electron shell, the increase in ionization energy is primarily due to the increased net charge of the ion from which the electron is being removed. Electrons removed from more highly charged ions of a particular element experience greater forces of electrostatic attraction; thus, their removal requires more energy. In addition, when the next ionization energy involves removing an electron from a lower electron shell, the greatly decreased distance between the nucleus and the electron also increases both the electrostatic force and the distance over which that force must be overcome to remove the electron. Both of these factors further increase the ionization energy.\n\nSome values for elements of the third period are given in the following table:\n\nLarge jumps in the successive molar ionization energies occur when passing noble gas configurations. For example, as can be seen in the table above, the first two molar ionization energies of magnesium (stripping the two 3s electrons from a magnesium atom) are much smaller than the third, which requires stripping off a 2p electron from the neon configuration of Mg. That electron is much closer to the nucleus than the previous 3s electron.\n\nIonization energy is also a periodic trend within the periodic table organization. Moving left to right within a period, or upward within a group, the first ionization energy generally increases, with some exceptions such as aluminum and sulfur in the table above. As the nuclear charge of the nucleus increases across the period, the atomic radius decreases and the electron cloud becomes closer towards the nucleus.\n\nAtomic ionization energy can be predicted by an analysis using electrostatic potential and the Bohr model of the atom, as follows (note that the derivation uses Gaussian units).\n\nConsider an electron of charge \"-e\" and an atomic nucleus with charge \"+Ze\", where \"Z\" is the number of protons in the nucleus. According to the Bohr model, if the electron were to approach and bond with the atom, it would come to rest at a certain radius \"a\". The electrostatic potential \"V\" at distance \"a\" from the ionic nucleus, referenced to a point infinitely far away, is:\n\nformula_1\n\nSince the electron is negatively charged, it is drawn inwards by this positive electrostatic potential. The energy required for the electron to \"climb out\" and leave the atom is:\n\nformula_2\n\nThis analysis is incomplete, as it leaves the distance \"a\" as an unknown variable. It can be made more rigorous by assigning to each electron of every chemical element a characteristic distance, chosen so that this relation agrees with experimental data.\n\nIt is possible to expand this model considerably by taking a semi-classical approach, in which momentum is quantized. This approach works very well for the hydrogen atom, which only has one electron. The magnitude of the angular momentum for a circular orbit is:\n\nformula_3\n\nThe total energy of the atom is the sum of the kinetic and potential energies, that is:\n\nformula_4\n\nVelocity can be eliminated from the kinetic energy term by setting the Coulomb attraction equal to the centripetal force, giving:\n\nformula_5\n\nSolving the angular momentum for \"v\" and substituting this into the expression for kinetic energy, we have:\n\nformula_6\n\nThis establishes the dependence of the radius on \"n\". That is:\n\nformula_7\n\nNow the energy can be found in terms of \"Z\", \"e\", and \"r\". Using the new value for the kinetic energy in the total energy equation above, it is found that:\n\nformula_8\n\nAt its smallest value, \"n\" is equal to 1 and \"r\" is the Bohr radius \"a\" which equals formula_9. Now, the equation for the energy can be established in terms of the Bohr radius. Doing so gives the result:\n\nformula_10\n\nAccording to the more complete theory of quantum mechanics, the location of an electron is best described as a probability distribution within an electron cloud, i.e. atomic orbital. The energy can be calculated by integrating over this cloud. The cloud's underlying mathematical representation is the wavefunction which is built from Slater determinants consisting of molecular spin orbitals. These are related by Pauli's exclusion principle to the antisymmetrized products of the atomic or molecular orbitals.\n\nIn general, calculating the \"n\"th ionization energy requires calculating the energies of formula_11 and formula_12 electron systems. Calculating these energies exactly is not possible except for the simplest systems (i.e. hydrogen), primarily because of difficulties in integrating the electron correlation terms. Therefore, approximation methods are routinely employed, with different methods varying in complexity (computational time) and in accuracy compared to empirical data. This has become a well-studied problem and is routinely done in computational chemistry. At the lowest level of approximation, the ionization energy is provided by Koopmans' theorem.\n\nIonization of molecules often leads to changes in molecular geometry, and two types of (first) ionization energy are defined – \"adiabatic\" and \"vertical\".\n\nThe adiabatic ionization energy of a molecule is the \"minimum\" amount of energy required to remove an electron from a neutral molecule, i.e. the difference between the energy of the vibrational ground state of the neutral species (v\" = 0 level) and that of the positive ion (v' = 0). The specific equilibrium geometry of each species does not affect this value.\n\nDue to the possible changes in molecular geometry that may result from ionization, additional transitions may exist between the vibrational ground state of the neutral species and vibrational excited states of the positive ion. In other words, ionization is accompanied by vibrational excitation. The intensity of such transitions are explained by the Franck–Condon principle, which predicts that the most probable and intense transition corresponds to the vibrational excited state of the positive ion that has the same geometry as the neutral molecule. This transition is referred to as the \"vertical\" ionization energy since it is represented by a completely vertical line on a potential energy diagram (see Figure).\n\nFor a diatomic molecule, the geometry is defined by the length of a single bond. The removal of an electron from a bonding molecular orbital weakens the bond and increases the bond length. In Figure 1, the lower potential energy curve is for the neutral molecule and the upper surface is for the positive ion. Both curves plot the potential energy as a function of bond length. The horizontal lines correspond to vibrational levels with their associated vibrational wave functions. Since the ion has a weaker bond, it will have a longer bond length. This effect is represented by shifting the minimum of the potential energy curve to the right of the neutral species. The adiabatic ionization is the diagonal transition to the vibrational ground state of the ion. Vertical ionization involves vibrational excitation of the ionic state and therefore requires greater energy.\n\nIn many circumstances, the adiabatic ionization energy is often a more interesting physical quantity since it describes the difference in energy between the two potential energy surfaces. However, due to experimental limitations, the adiabatic ionization energy is often difficult to determine, whereas the vertical detachment energy is easily identifiable and measurable.\n\nWhile the term ionization energy is largely used only for gas-phase atomic or molecular species, there are a number of analogous quantities that consider the amount of energy required to remove an electron from other physical systems.\n\nElectron binding energy is a generic term for the ionization energy that can be used for species with any charge state. For example, the electron binding energy for the chloride ion is the minimum amount of energy required to remove an electron from the chlorine atom when it has a charge of -1. In this particular example, the electron binding energy has the same magnitude as the electron affinity for the neutral chlorine atom. In another example, the electron binding energy refers the minimum amount of energy required to remove an electron from the dicarboxylate dianion OC(CH)CO.\n\nWork function is the minimum amount of energy required to remove an electron from a solid surface.\n\n"}
{"id": "56892858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56892858", "title": "Kagome metal", "text": "Kagome metal\n\nKagome metal is a quantum material created in 2018. In the material, metal atoms are arranged in a lattice resembling Japanese \"kagome\" basket weaving pattern. The material was announced in \"Nature\" by investigators from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, all in the United States.\n\nElectrons in the metal experience a \"three-dimensional cousin of the quantum Hall effect\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1640708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640708", "title": "Lester R. Brown", "text": "Lester R. Brown\n\nLester Russel Brown (born March 28, 1934) is a United States environmental analyst, founder of the Worldwatch Institute, and founder and former president of the Earth Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization based in Washington, D.C. BBC Radio commentator Peter Day referred to him as \"one of the great pioneer environmentalists.\"\n\nBrown is the author or co-author of over 50 books on global environmental issues and his works have been translated into more than forty languages. His most recent book is \"The Great Transition: Shifting from Fossil Fuels to Solar and Wind Energy\" (2015), in which he explains that the global economy is now undergoing a transition from fossil and nuclear energy to clean power from solar, wind, and other renewable sources. His previous book was \"Full Planet, Empty Plates: The New Geopolitics of Food Scarcity\" (2012).\n\nBrown emphasizes the geopolitical effects of fast-rising grain prices, noting that \"the biggest threat to global stability is the potential for food crises in poor countries,\" and one that could \"bring down civilization.\" In \"Foreign Policy\" magazine, he describes how the \"new geopolitics of food\" has, in 2011, already begun to contribute to revolutions and upheaval in various countries.\n\nThe recipient of 26 honorary degrees and a MacArthur Fellowship, Brown has been described by the \"Washington Post\" as \"one of the world's most influential thinkers.\" As early as 1978, in his book \"The Twenty-Ninth Day\", he was already warning of \"the various dangers arising out of our manhandling of nature...by overfishing the oceans, stripping the forests, turning land into desert.\" In 1986, the Library of Congress requested his personal papers noting that his writings \"have already strongly affected thinking about problems of world population and resources,\" while president Bill Clinton has suggested that \"we should all heed his advice.\" In 2003 he was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Brown helped pioneer the concept of sustainable development, during a career that started with farming. Since then, he has been the recipient of many prizes and awards, including, the 1987 United Nations Environment Prize, the 1989 World Wide Fund for Nature Gold Medal, and the 1994 Blue Planet Prize for his \"contributions to solving global environmental problems.\" In 1995, \"Marquis Who's Who\" selected Brown as one of its \"50 Great Americans.\" He was recently awarded the Presidential Medal of Italy and was appointed an honorary professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He lives in Washington, D.C. and retired in June 2015.\n\nBrown was born and raised on a farm without running water or electricity in Bridgeton, New Jersey near the Delaware River. He learned to read early and was a voracious reader. He was fascinated by World War II and would borrow day-old papers from the next door farm to follow it. He especially enjoyed reading biographies including those of America's founding fathers and others such as Abraham Lincoln, George Washington Carver, and Marie Curie. From his earliest years, he worked on the farm, milking cows, pulling weeds, and cleaning the stable. An enterprising youth, he involved his younger brother, Carl, in various businesses, such as growing pheasants and chickens for sale. In 1951, they started a tomato growing business, which eventually grew to become one of New Jersey's largest, with sales of over a year. He later said, \"farming is all I ever wanted to do with all my life. You have to know soils, weather, plant pathology, entomology, management, even politics. It's the ideal interdisciplinary profession.\"\n\nShortly after earning a degree in agricultural science from Rutgers University in 1955, through the International Farm Youth Exchange Program, he spent six months living in rural India where he became intimately familiar with food and population issues. \"His experiences in Indian villages changed his life,\" wrote biographer David De Leon. \"Although he went back to growing tomatoes when he returned to the United States, this no longer seemed like exciting work.\" \n\nBrown decided that to work on the global food issue, he would need to work for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS). He learned that before they would hire him, he needed to have a degree in agricultural economics. Brown took nine months to earn a master's degree in agricultural economics from the University of Maryland and in 1959 joined FAS as an international agricultural analyst in the Asia branch. A year or so later, he took a nine-month leave to earn a master of public administration from the Harvard Graduate School of Public Administration which was later to become the John F. Kennedy School of Government.\n\nIn 1963, just four years later, he published Man, Land and Food, the first comprehensive projection of world food, population, and land resources to the end of the century. The study was a cover story in the January 6, 1963 issue of U.S. News & World Report where it came to the attention of Secretary of Agriculture, Orville Freeman. Freeman appreciated Brown's bold analysis and offered him a job on his staff, saying \"you sketched the problems. Now you have to do something about them.\" He was soon elevated to being the resident specialist on global issues. In this capacity, he advised the secretary of agriculture on his overseas agricultural policies. He also headed USDA's International Agricultural Development Service from 1966 to 1969. His primary job was to \"increase food production in underdeveloped countries.\" \n\nIn early 1969, he left government to help establish the Overseas Development Council. He also became an enthusiastic believer in the promise of a Green Revolution, with the hope of using better seeds and cultivation methods to help solve global problems of poverty and hunger. In his opinion, \"this technology was the most crucial historical event since the steam engine.\" In subsequent years, however, he realized that rapid population growth in undeveloped countries was overwhelming the gains in increased food production.\n\nIn 1974, with support of a $500,000 grant from the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Brown founded the Worldwatch Institute, the first research institute devoted to the analysis of global environmental issues. While there he launched the Worldwatch Papers, the annual State of the World reports, World Watch magazine, a second annual entitled \"Vital Signs: The Trends That are Shaping Our Future\", and the Environmental Alert book series. According to De Leon, \"he gathered a staff of young idealists just out of college. They were expected to be 'professional generalists,' rather than narrow specialists with advanced degrees.\"\n\nThe institute eventually became noted for being an independent and respected think tank focusing on environmental issues and also a storehouse for a large amount of environmental information. Their goal is to educate the public and government about environmental problems and to recommend actions. The institute has refused to become a lobbying organization, with Brown saying, \"the world is filled with specialists who dig deep burrows into the earth and bring up these nuggets of insight, but there's no one up on top pulling it all together. That's our job.\" As a result, he has been described as \"one of the world's most influential thinkers\" and was granted a $250,000 \"genius award\" by the MacArthur Foundation in 1986.\n\nIn 2001, he left Worldwatch Institute to establish the Earth Policy Institute, devoted to providing a plan to save civilization. At the Institute, his years of working on global issues through an interdisciplinary lens has enabled him to identify trends those working in specialized areas might not see. They have also allowed him to consider global solutions to the many environmental concerns of today. Some of the more important works Brown has written at the Institute include \"World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse\" (2011), \"Eco-Economy: Building an Economy for the Earth\" (2001), and the \"Plan B\" series. His most recent book is \"The Great Transition: Shifting from Fossil Fuels to Solar and Wind Energy\" (2015) co-authored with Janet Larsen, J. Matthew Roney, and Emily E. Adams.\n\nOn June 30, 2015, he officially retired and closed the Earth Policy Institute. His legacies will live on through a Lester R. Brown Reading Room at Rutgers University (his alma mater). The room will house the collection of his books along with their translations, honorary degrees, and awards. His electronic collection of presentations, radio and television interviews, and documentaries in which he is featured will be accessioned into the Rutgers University library system. Rutgers is also hosting the Earth Policy Institute's website so that the information remains available.\n\nThe Library of Congress is receiving his personal papers from his early years, through his career spanning the United States Department of Agriculture, the Overseas Development Council, Worldwatch Institute, and the Earth Policy Institute.\n\n\"Lester Brown is one of the most important voices in the world, regarding the creation of a new conscience of humanity toward a sustainable society.\" -Jose Jaime Maussan\n\n\"Keep up the good work! Some of us are getting in the habit of relying on you all for valuable information and solid analysis.\" –Eric Britton, The New Mobility Agenda\n\n\"…a small think tank with a knack of spotting new trends…\" –Geoffrey Lean, Telegraph \n\nThe following have been consistent themes in Brown's work over the years:\n\nAfter a talk at Catawba College in 2008, the college newspaper referred to him as an \"environmental Paul Revere,\" [as] he warned his audience that \"unless civilization changes its ways, its end is truly near... we're in a race between natural tipping points and political tipping points, - 'what we need most of all is for the market to tell the environmental truth.' \" He added, \"We don't need to go beyond our ice melts to know that we're in trouble. How much are we willing to spend to avoid a 23 foot rise in sea level?\" He explained that \"indirect costs are shaping our future,\" and by ignoring these, \"we're doing exactly the same thing as Enron- leaving costs off the books. Consuming today with no concern for tomorrow is not a winning philosophy.\" He spoke of rapid population growth, deforestation, and \"two new stresses – rising food and oil prices.\" \"As oil prices go up, grain prices will follow,\" he said.\n\nIn 2001 Brown suggested a \"tax shifting\" structure which would reduce income taxes and offsett them with taxes on environmentally destructive activities such as carbon emissions. It would lead to an \"honest market, he said, by adding a tax on carbon to pay for the hidden costs of climate change. It would also account for the environmental costs of things such toxic waste, the overuse of raw materials, mercury emissions, the generation of garbage, the use of pesticides, and the use of throwaway products such as plastic bottles, all activities that would be discouraged by taxing. He says that by keeping such environmental costs \"off the books,\" and thereby hidden, society risks the same fate as a large company such as Enron, which failed immediately after auditors learned they had kept major costs off their books.\n\nBrown subsequently added that such a tax shift would amount to an \"honest market,\" explaining, \"The key to restructuring the economy is the creation of an honest market, one that tells the ecological truth.\" In 2011 he estimated the cost of such a tax shift, including the effects of better technology, the use of renewables and \"updating the concept of national security.\"\n\nIn December 2008, Brown presented ways of creating new jobs by public investment in both the renewable energy industry and in energy efficiency technology. He gave growth statistics along with the calculated number of jobs that would be created:\nHe notes that \"historically, it is rare for so many emerging threats to have a common solution.\"\n\nBrown has authored or co-authored over 50 books. which have appeared in some 40 languages. Among his earlier books are \"Man, Land and Food\", \"World Without Borders\", and \"Building a Sustainable Society\". His 1995 book \"Who Will Feed China?\" challenged the official view of China's food prospect, spawning many conferences and seminars. \n\nIn May 2001, he founded the Earth Policy Institute to provide a vision and a road map for achieving an environmentally sustainable economy. In November 2001, he published \"Eco-Economy: Building an Economy for the Earth\", which was hailed by E.O. Wilson as \"an instant classic.\" In 2009 he published \"\"Plan B 4.0\"\" and in 2011 \"World on the Edge\". In 2012 he published \"Full Planet, Empty Plates\".\n\nIn this book, published in 1995, Brown highlights the pressure on world resources as more countries, especially China, become developed. He writes, \"To feed its 1.2 billion people, China may soon have to import so much grain that this action could trigger unprecedented rises in world food prices.\"\n\nIn February 2014, he updated that forecast stating that China had since become a leading world grain importer, \"set to buy a staggering 22 million tons\" in the 2013-2014 trade year and their grain use climbing by 17 million tons per year.\n\nThis book, published in 2004, is a more recent description of \"the ways in which human demands are outstripping the earth's natural capacities, and how the resulting environmental damage is undermining food production on a global scale. He documents that the decrease of crop production is due to global warming, water shortages, decreasing cropland in developing countries like China, and population growth that is still increasing world population by 76 million each year.\n\nThis book, published in 2009, continues the themes of his earlier books, and is written as a final warning call for the leaders of the world to begin \"mobilizing to save civilization\" and stresses even more that time is of the essence.\n\nAt California State University, Chico, \"Plan B\" has become \"required reading for all incoming freshmen.\" The university says that it is being used in many courses in History, English, Philosophy, Communications, Political and Social Science.\n\nIn the fall of 2013, Brown published his autobiography. In \"Breaking New Ground\", Brown details the seminal events of his life that led him to establish the first research institute devoted to an interdisciplinary analysis of global environmental issues. Of the book, David Orr said, \"This is the life story of a true American hero . . . as a scientist and public intellectual dedicated to the cause of sustainability Lester Brown is in a class by himself.\" David Suzuki said, \"Lester Brown is one of humanity's great eco-warriors, constantly updating the state of the planet while ceaselessly seeking solutions and a path to sustainability. Breaking New Ground is an inspirational story of what one person is capable of achieving. Every aspiring activist will find much to learn from Lester Brown's life story.\"\n\nThe book covers the rapid growth of global energy revolution using renewable sources. Countries are replacing coal and nuclear power as their energy sources and moving toward renewable energies. While solar energy was originally developed for small-scale residential use, today major utility-scale solar projects are being built globally. Single wind farm complexes in some countries will produce as much electricity as several nuclear power plants. New transport systems in countries like China are also relying on electricity, while more people use bicycles for local commuting.\n\nLester Brown is the recipient of many prizes and awards, including 25 honorary degrees, and is an honorary professor of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3634697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634697", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on chestnut trees", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on chestnut trees\n\nChestnuts (\"Castanea\" species) are used as food plants by the larvae of a number of Lepidoptera species including:\n\nSpecies which feed exclusively on \"Castanea\"\n\n\nSpecies which feed on \"Castanea\" and other plants\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3688079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3688079", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on goldenrods", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on goldenrods\n\nGoldenrods, \"Solidago\" species, are used as food plants by the larvae (caterpillars) of a number of Lepidoptera species including:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5894139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5894139", "title": "List of Mysmenidae species", "text": "List of Mysmenidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Mysmenidae as of Oct. 28, 2013.\n\n\"Brasilionata\" \n\n\"Calodipoena\" \n\n\"Calomyspoena\" \n\n\"Chanea\" \n\n\"Gaoligonga\" \n\n\"Iardinis\" \n\n\"Isela\" \n\n\"Itapua\" \n\n\"Kekenboschiella\" \n\n\"Kilifina\" \n\n\"Leviola\" \n\n\"Maymena\" \n\n\"Microdipoena\" \n\n\"Mosu\" \n\n\"Mysmena\" \n\n\"Mysmenella\" \n\n\"Mysmeniola\" \n\n\"Mysmenopsis\" \n\n\"Phricotelus\" \n\n\"Simaoa\" \n\n\"Tamasesia\" \n\n\"Trogloneta\" \n\n"}
{"id": "5867158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5867158", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Wiltshire", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Wiltshire\n\n<onlyinclude> The following is a list of Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Wiltshire, England, United Kingdom. In England the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which chooses a site because of its fauna, flora, geological or physiographical features. As of 2006, there are 134 sites designated in this Area of Search, of which the vast majority, 108, have been designated due to their biological interest, with just 21 due to their geological interest (and 5 for both).\n\n</includeonly></onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "35975145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35975145", "title": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth", "text": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth\n\nThis is a list of examples where an asteroid or meteoroid travels close to the Earth. Some are regarded as potentially hazardous objects if they are estimated to be large enough to cause regional devastation.\n\nNear-Earth object detection technology greatly improved about 1998, so objects being detected as of 2004 could have been missed only a decade earlier due to a lack of dedicated Near-Earth sky surveys. As dedicated Near-Earth sky surveys improve, smaller and smaller asteroids are regularly being discovered. The small near-Earth asteroids , 2014 AA, and 2018 LA are the only three asteroids discovered before impacting into Earth (see Asteroid impact prediction). Scientists estimate that several dozen asteroids in the size range fly by Earth at a distance closer than the moon every year, but only a fraction of these are actually detected.\n\nThe average distance to the Moon (or lunar distance LD) is about , which is around 30 times the width of the earth. Below are lists of close approaches less than one LD for a given year. (See also near-Earth asteroids published by the International Astronomical Union and NEO Earth Close Approaches).\n\nFrom the list in the first section, these are the closest known asteroids per year that approach Earth within one lunar distance LD. More than one asteroid per year may be listed if its geocentric distance is within a tenth of the lunar distance, or 0.10 LD. For comparison, since a satellite in a geostationary orbit has an altitude of about , then its geocentric distance is 0.11 LD (approximately 3 times the width of the Earth).\n\nThe table shows that the years 2016 and 2017 had a total of 13 such close encounters that are known. Of these, eight were undetected until after they'd happened and only one was detected with more than 24 hours notice. 2018 has fared better so far, with five out of the six known close encounters being detected beforehand, albeit with less than 24 hours notice in each case.\n\nThis list does not include any of the hundreds of objects that collided with earth, which were not discovered in advance, but were recorded by sensors designed to detect detonation of nuclear devices. Of the objects so detected, 78 had an impact energy greater than that of a 1 kiloton device, including 11 which had an impact energy greater than that of a 10 kiloton device i.e. comparable to the atomic bombs used in the Second World War. .\n\nNotable cases are the relatively large asteroids and Duende, with the latter coincidentally approaching just a few hours after the unrelated Chelyabinsk meteor.\n\nFrom the lists in the first section, these are the largest known asteroids per year that approach Earth within one LD. (More than one asteroid per year may be listed if its size is or more.) For comparison, the 1908 Tunguska event was caused by an object about in size, while the 2013 Chelyabinsk meteor which injured thousands of people and buildings when it generated a large airburst over Russia was estimated to be just across.\n\nThe table shows about 14 events in the 12 decades of 1900-2020 involving a body with an upper size estimate of or more making a close approach to Earth within one LD, with one (the Tunguska object) making impact.\n\nThe year 2011 was notable as two asteroids with size or more approached within one lunar distance.\n\nObjects with distances greater than are listed here, although there is no discrete beginning of space. The lists do not pretend to completeness.\n\nAsteroids smaller than about .\n\nAsteroids larger than about .\n\nIncomplete list of asteroids larger than about predicted to pass close to Earth (see also Asteroid impact prediction):\n\nA list of predicted NEO approaches at larger distances is maintained as a database by the NASA Near Earth Object Program.\n\nObjects which enter and then leave Earth's atmosphere, the so-called 'Earth-grazers,' are a distinct phenomenon, in as much as entering the lower atmosphere can constitute an impact event rather than a close pass. Earth grazer can also be short for a body that \"grazes\" the orbit of the Earth, in a different context.\n\n"}
{"id": "2863963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2863963", "title": "List of constant species in the British National Vegetation Classification", "text": "List of constant species in the British National Vegetation Classification\n\nThe following is a list of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens which are constant species in one or more community of the British National Vegetation Classification system.\n"}
{"id": "30519628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30519628", "title": "List of loughs of County Mayo", "text": "List of loughs of County Mayo\n\nThis is a list of loughs in County Mayo, Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "22906401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22906401", "title": "List of mountain passes of Gauteng", "text": "List of mountain passes of Gauteng\n\nThis is a list of publicly accessible, motorable passes in the Gauteng Province, South Africa.\nSee Mountain Passes of South Africa\n"}
{"id": "7406830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7406830", "title": "List of national parks of Morocco", "text": "List of national parks of Morocco\n\nThere are 11 national parks in Morocco. Toubkal National Park, established in 1942, is the oldest and by far the most visited. The parks are situated rather well in-line, so it already allows wildlife migration to some extent. The only missing component in this wildlife corridor is a gap between Al-Hoceima and Seghir (so roughly at the location of Hakkama). Closing this gap would facilitate wildlife passage (of mainly birds) to the Spanish park of Los Alcornocales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38658422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38658422", "title": "List of nature centers in Alaska", "text": "List of nature centers in Alaska\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Alaska. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n"}
{"id": "675151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675151", "title": "List of rivers of the Americas by coastline", "text": "List of rivers of the Americas by coastline\n\nThis list of rivers of the Americas by coastline includes the major rivers of the Americas arranged according to their positions along the ocean coastlines:\n\nThis is a counterpart to the primarily alphabetical List of rivers of the Americas although only rivers which reach the ocean are included here, not tributaries.\n\n\n\n\nGreat Salt Lake Basin\n"}
{"id": "8200802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8200802", "title": "List of vascular plants of Norfolk Island", "text": "List of vascular plants of Norfolk Island\n\nThis is a list of vascular plants that are indigenous to, or naturalised on, Norfolk Island. The list is based on the most recent authoritative treatment of Norfolk Island, the 1994 \"Flora of Australia\" 49. That source is dated in places; for example its classification of the flowering plants uses the Cronquist system, aspects of which are no longer accepted. This list therefore differs from the \"Flora of Australia\" treatment in several areas; these are footnoted.\n\nNorfolk Island has 523 taxa of vascular plants, 136 of which are indigenous, and 387 naturalised. Forty-four of the indigenous taxa are endemic. There are two endemic genera, \"Ungeria\" and \"Streblorrhiza\".\n\nThe eudicots are represented on Norfolk Island by 75 families, 220 genera, and 287 species.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Monocotyledons (monocots) are represented on Norfolk Island by 16 families, 81 genera, and 110 species. Most of them are naturalised, with naturalised grasses account for 5 families, 47 genera and 67 species. Of the 43 indigenous species, 9 are endemic.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTwo species of Pinophyta (conifers) occur on Norfolk Island: the popular endemic \"Araucaria heterophylla\" (Norfolk Island Pine), and the naturalised \"Cupressus lusitanica\".\n\nThe Pteridophyta (ferns) are represented on Norfolk Island by 14 families, 24 genera, and 37 species. Seven species are endemic; none are naturalised.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNorfolk Island has two species of Lycopodiophyta, the indigenous club moss \"Lycopodiella cernua\" and the naturalised spikemoss \"Selaginella kraussiana\".\n\n\n\nNorfolk Island has two species of Psilotophyta.\n\n\nNorfolk Island has one species of Ophioglossophyta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21801574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21801574", "title": "Modderpoort Sacred Sites", "text": "Modderpoort Sacred Sites\n\nThe Sacred Sites of Modderpoort are located in the Eastern Free State of South Africa. Four sites are included in the overall collection:\n\nThe collection of sites was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on June 30, 1998 in the Cultural category, and removed from the list in 2011\n\n"}
{"id": "8338953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8338953", "title": "Moreton wave", "text": "Moreton wave\n\nA Moreton wave or Moreton-Ramsey wave is the chromospheric signature of a large-scale solar coronal shock wave. Described as a kind of solar \"tsunami\", they are generated by solar flares. They are named for American astronomer Gail Moreton, an observer at the Lockheed Solar Observatory in Burbank, and Harry E. Ramsey, an observer who spotted them in 1959 at The Sacramento Peak Observatory. He discovered them in time-lapse photography of the chromosphere in the light of the Balmer alpha transition.\n\nThere were few follow-up studies for decades. Then the 1995 launch of the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory led to observation of coronal waves, which cause Moreton waves. Moreton waves were a research topic again. (SOHO's EIT instrument discovered another, different wave type called \"EIT waves\".)\nThe reality of Moreton waves (a.k.a. fast-mode MHD waves) has also been confirmed by the two STEREO spacecraft. They observed a 100,000-km-high wave of hot plasma and magnetism, moving at 250 km/s, in conjunction with a big coronal mass ejection in February 2009.\n\nMoreton measured the waves propagating at a speed of 500–1500 km/s. Yutaka Uchida interpreted Moreton waves as MHD fast mode shock waves propagating in the corona. He links them to type II radio bursts, which are radio-wave discharges created when coronal mass ejections accelerate shocks.\nMoreton waves can be observed primarily in the Hα band.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21017709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21017709", "title": "Mount Qaf", "text": "Mount Qaf\n\nMount Qaf, also known as Qaf-Kuh, Cafcuh, Kafkuh, Djebel Qaf, or Jabal Qaf ( \"Qâf-Kūh\" or کوهٔ قاف \"Kuh-e Qaaf\"; \"Jabal Qāf\" or \"Djebel Qaf\") is a mountain in Middle Eastern mythology.\n\nHistorically Iranian power never extended over all of the Northern Caucasus and ancient lore shrouded these high mountains in mystery.\nIn Iranian tradition this mountain could be any of the following:\n\nMount Qaf in Arabic tradition is a mysterious mountain renowned as the \"farthest point of the earth\" owing to its location at the far side of the ocean encircling the earth. Because of its remoteness, the North Pole is sometimes identified with this mountain. It is also the only place in this world where the roc will land.\n\nZakariya al-Qazwini published ʿAjā'ib al-makhlūqāt wa gharā'ib al-mawjūdāt (\"The Wonders of Creation\", literally \"Marvels of things created and miraculous aspects of things existing\") in the 16th century, a book that was influential in early modern Islamic society. According to Qazwini's cosmology, the sky is held by Allah so that it does not fall on Earth. The Earth is considered flat and surrounded by a series of mountains —including Mount Qaf— that hold it in its place like pegs; the Earth is supported by an ox that stands on Bahamut, a giant fish ( \"Bahamūt\") dwelling in a cosmic ocean; the ocean is inside a bowl that sits on top of an angel or jinn.\n\nAccording to certain authors, the \"Jabal Qaf\" of Muslim cosmology is a version of Rupes Nigra, a mountain whose ascent —such as Dante's climbing of the Mountain of Purgatory, represents the pilgrim's progress through spiritual states. In some traditions —such as in a hadith quoted by Al-Tabari— Mount Qaf is a mountain range that surrounds the farthest edges of the Earth, instead of a single mountain.\n\nMount Qaf is associated with Surah Qaf in certain interpretations of the Quran \"(Tafsir)\" because of ayah 7 referring to mountains.\n\n\"Mount Qaf\" (original Turkish title \"Kafdağı\") is also the title of a novel by Turkish author Müge İplikçi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2539254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2539254", "title": "Optical theorem", "text": "Optical theorem\n\nIn physics, the optical theorem is a general law of wave scattering theory, which relates the forward scattering amplitude to the total cross section of the scatterer. It is usually written in the form\nwhere (0) is the scattering amplitude with an angle of zero, that is, the amplitude of the wave scattered to the center of a distant screen, and is the wave vector in the incident direction. \n\nBecause the optical theorem is derived using only conservation of energy, or in quantum mechanics from conservation of probability, the optical theorem is widely applicable and, in quantum mechanics, formula_2 includes both elastic and inelastic scattering. Note that the above form is for an incident plane wave; a more general form involving arbitrary outgoing directions k' invented by Werner Heisenberg can be written\n\nThe optical theorem implies that an object that scatters any light at all (or electrons, neutrons, etc) will have a nonzero forward scattering amplitude (0). However, the physically observed field in the forward direction is the sum of the (nonzero) scattered field and the incident field, which may add to zero.\n\nThe optical theorem was originally invented independently by Wolfgang von Sellmeier and Lord Rayleigh in 1871. Lord Rayleigh recognized the forward scattering amplitude in terms of the index of refraction as\n(where is the number density of scatterers),\nwhich he used in a study of the color and polarization of the sky. \n\nThe equation was later extended to quantum scattering theory by several individuals, and came to be known as the Bohr–Peierls–Placzek relation after an unpublished 1939 paper. It was first referred to as the \"optical theorem\" in print in 1955 by Hans Bethe and Frederic de Hoffmann, after it had been known as a \"well known theorem of optics\" for some time.\n\nThe theorem can be derived rather directly from a treatment of a scalar wave. If a plane wave is incident along positive z axis on an object, then the wave amplitude a great distance away from the scatterer is approximately given by\n\nAll higher terms, when squared, vanish more quickly than formula_6, and so are negligible a great distance away. For large values of formula_7 and for small angles, a Taylor expansion gives us\n\nWe would now like to use the fact that the intensity is proportional to the square of the amplitude formula_9. Approximating formula_10 as formula_11, we have\n\nIf we drop the formula_13 term and use the fact that formula_14, we have\n\nNow suppose we integrate over a screen far away in the \"xy\" plane, which is small enough for the small-angle approximations to be appropriate, but large enough that we can integrate the intensity from formula_16 to formula_17 with negligible error. In optics, this is equivalent to including many fringes of the diffraction pattern. To further simplify matters, let's approximate formula_18. We obtain\n\nwhere \"A\" is the area of the surface integrated over. Although these are improper integrals, by suitable approximations the exponentials can be treated as Gaussians, and\n\nThis is the probability of reaching the screen if none were scattered, lessened by an amount formula_21, which is therefore the effective scattering cross section of the scatterer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007305", "title": "Outer trench swell", "text": "Outer trench swell\n\nThe outer trench swell, outer trench high, or outer rise is a subtle ridge on the seafloor near an oceanic trench, where a descending plate begins to flex and fault in preparation for its descent into the mantle at a subduction zone. The lithosphere is bent upwards by plate stresses, and is not in isostatic equilibrium (distinguish from the \"outer ridge\" of a forearc).\n\nTypically, the gravity field over the outer swell is about 50 mGal (0.5 mm/s²) higher than expected from isostasy, while gravity over the trench is about 200 mGal (2 mm/s²) less than that expected from isostatic considerations.\n\nThe bending of the plate is associated with tension in the upper 20 km, and shallow earthquakes, caused by tensional failure induced by the downward bending of the oceanic plate are common; about 20 extensional outer rise earthquakes with magnitude 5 or greater occur annually. Most tension axes are perpendicular to the trench, independent of the direction of relative motion between the two plates, indicating that failure is controlled by bending stresses in the plate. Plate bending also causes deeper (down to 50 km) earthquakes due to compression.\n\nThe wavelength and amplitude of this flexure can be used to constrain the state of stress across the plate boundary. The width of the outer rise is directly related to the flexural rigidity of the lithosphere. The thickness of the elastic lithosphere varies between 20 and 30 km for most trench profiles. Faulting related to plate bending and stair-stepping of the descending slab into the trench may allow seawater to infiltrate deep into the crust and perhaps upper mantle. This may lead to large scale formation of serpentinite in the upper mantle of the downgoing plate (Ranero et al., 2003).\n\nFaulting of the downgoing plate results in a horst and graben structure that allows sediment that reaches the trench to be deposited in graben and carried downward. This faulting also breaks up seamounts as they approach the trench. The principal mechanism of frontal erosion may reflect combined effects of seamount tunneling, mass wasting and transport to the trench, deposition in a graben on the downgoing plate, and descent into the mantle.\n\nOuter trench swells are geoscientific frontiers and much remains to be learned about them. Recent volcanoes have been discovered on ~135-million-year-old Pacific Plate east of Japan (Hirano et al., 2006). These small alkalic volcanoes are small percent melts of asthenosphere that exploit bending-related lithospheric faults to reach the seafloor. Hirano et al., (2006) proposed that these small volcanoes erupted along lithospheric fractures in response to plate flexure during subduction. If bending-related faulting and serpentinization is an important process beneath outer trench swells, there are probably also abundant low-temperature hydrothermal vents on the swells, similar to those of the Lost City (hydrothermal field).\n\n"}
{"id": "35213384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35213384", "title": "Pi Cancri", "text": "Pi Cancri\n\nThe Bayer designation π Cancri (Pi Cancri) is shared by two stars in the constellation Cancer:\n\n\nρ Cancri\n"}
{"id": "155715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155715", "title": "Pyroelectricity", "text": "Pyroelectricity\n\nPyroelectricity (from the Greek \"pyr\", fire, and electricity) is a property of certain crystals which are naturally electrically polarized and as a result contain large electric fields. Pyroelectricity can be described as the \nability of certain materials to generate a temporary voltage when they are heated or cooled. The change in temperature modifies the positions of the atoms slightly within the crystal structure, such that the polarization of the material changes. This polarization change gives rise to a voltage across the crystal. If the temperature stays constant at its new value, the pyroelectric voltage gradually disappears due to leakage current (the leakage can be due to electrons moving through the crystal, ions moving through the air, or current leaking through a voltmeter attached across the crystal).\n\nPyroelectricity should not be confused with thermoelectricity, a different thermal effect with a different mechanism.\n\nPyroelectricity can be visualized as one side of a triangle, where each corner represents energy states in the crystal: kinetic, electrical and thermal energies. The side between electrical and thermal corners represents the pyroelectric effect and produces no kinetic energy. The side between kinetic and electrical corners represents the piezoelectric effect and produces no heat.\n\nPyroelectric charge in minerals develops on the opposite faces of asymmetric crystals. The direction in which the propagation of the charge tends is usually constant throughout a pyroelectric material, but, in some materials, this direction can be changed by a nearby electric field. These materials are said to exhibit ferroelectricity. All pyroelectric materials are also piezoelectric, the two properties being closely related. However, note that some piezoelectric materials have a crystal symmetry that does not allow pyroelectricity.\n\nPyroelectric materials are mostly hard and crystals, however, soft pyroelectricity can be achieved by using electrets. \n\nPyroelectricity is measured as the change in net polarization (a vector) proportional to a change in temperature. The total pyroelectric coefficient measured at constant stress is the sum of the pyroelectric coefficients at constant strain (primary pyroelectric effect) and the piezoelectric contribution from thermal expansion (secondary pyroelectric effect). Under normal circumstances, even polar materials do not display a net dipole moment. As a consequence there are no electric dipole equivalents of bar magnets because the intrinsic dipole moment is neutralized by \"free\" electric charge that builds up on the surface by internal conduction or from the ambient atmosphere. Polar crystals only reveal their nature when perturbed in some fashion that momentarily upsets the balance with the compensating surface charge.\n\nSpontaneous polarization is temperature dependent, so a good perturbation probe is a change in temperature which induces a flow of charge to and from the surfaces. This is the pyroelectric effect. All polar crystals are pyroelectric, so the 10 polar crystal classes are sometimes referred to as the pyroelectric classes. Pyroelectric materials can be used as infrared and millimeter wavelength radiation detectors.\n\nAn electret is the electrical equivalent of a permanent magnet.\n\nThe pyroelectric coefficient may be described as the change in the spontaneous polarization vector with temperature:\nwhere \"p\" (CmK)\nis the vector for the pyroelectric coefficient.\n\nThe first reference to the pyroelectric effect is found in writings by Theophrastus (c. 314 BC), who noted that \"lyngourion\", tourmaline, could attract sawdust or bits of straw when heated. Tourmaline's properties were rediscovered in 1707 by Johann Georg Schmidt, who noted that the stone attracted only hot ashes, not cold ones. In 1717 Louis Lemery noticed, as Schmidt had, that small scraps of non-conducting material were first attracted to tourmaline, but then repelled by it once they contacted the stone. In 1747 Linnaeus first related the phenomenon to electricity (he called tourmaline \"Lapidem Electricum\", \"the electric stone\"), although this was not proven until 1756 by Franz Ulrich Theodor Aepinus. \n\nResearch into pyroelectricity became more sophisticated in the 19th century. In 1824 Sir David Brewster gave the effect the name it has today. Both William Thomson in 1878 and Woldemar Voigt in 1897 helped develop a theory for the processes behind pyroelectricity. Pierre Curie and his brother, Jacques Curie, studied pyroelectricity in the 1880s, leading to their discovery of some of the mechanisms behind piezoelectricity. \n\nAll crystal structures belong to one of thirty-two crystal classes based on the number of rotational axes and reflection planes they possess that leave the crystal structure unchanged (point groups). Of the thirty-two crystal classes, twenty-one are non-centrosymmetric (not having a centre of symmetry). Of these twenty-one, twenty exhibit direct piezoelectricity, the remaining one being the cubic class 432. Ten of these twenty piezoelectric classes are polar, i.e., they possess a spontaneous polarization, having a dipole in their unit cell, and exhibit pyroelectricity. If this dipole can be reversed by the application of an electric field, the material is said to be ferroelectric. Any dielectric material develops a dielectric polarization (electrostatics) when an electric field is applied, but a substance which has such a natural charge separation even in the absence of a field is called a polar material. Whether or not a material is polar is determined solely by its crystal structure. Only 10 of the 32 point groups are polar. All polar crystals are pyroelectric, so the ten polar crystal classes are sometimes referred to as the pyroelectric classes.\n\nPiezoelectric crystal classes: 1, 2, m, 222, mm2, 4, -4, 422, 4mm, -42m, 3, 32, 3m, 6, -6, 622, 6mm, -62m, 23, -43m\n\nPyroelectric: 1, 2, m, mm2, 3, 3m, 4, 4mm, 6, 6mm\n\nTwo effects which are closely related to pyroelectricity are ferroelectricity and piezoelectricity. Normally materials are very nearly electrically neutral on the macroscopic level. However, the positive and negative charges which make up the material are not necessarily distributed in a symmetric manner. If the sum of charge times distance for all elements of the basic cell does not equal zero the cell will have an electric dipole moment (a vector quantity). The dipole moment per unit volume is defined as the dielectric polarization. If this dipole moment changes with the effect of applied temperature changes, applied electric field, or applied pressure, the material is pyroelectric, ferroelectric, or piezoelectric, respectively. \n\nThe ferroelectric effect is exhibited by materials which possess an electric polarization in the absence of an externally applied electric field such that the polarization can be reversed if the electric field is reversed. Since all ferroelectric materials exhibit a spontaneous polarization, all ferroelectric materials are also pyroelectric (but not all pyroelectric materials are ferroelectric).\n\nThe piezoelectric effect is exhibited by crystals (such as quartz or ceramic) for which an electric voltage across the material appears when pressure is applied. Similar to pyroelectric effect, the phenomenon is due to the asymmetric structure of the crystals that allows ions to move more easily along one axis than the others. As pressure is applied, each side of the crystal takes on an opposite charge, resulting in a voltage drop across the crystal. \n\nPyroelectricity should not be confused with thermoelectricity: In a typical demonstration of pyroelectricity, the whole crystal is changed from one temperature to another, and the result is a temporary voltage across the crystal. In a typical demonstration of thermoelectricity, one part of the device is kept at one temperature and the other part at a different temperature, and the result is a \"permanent\" voltage across the device as long as there is a temperature difference. Both effects convert temperature change to electrical potential, but the pyroelectric effect converts temperature change over \"time\" into electrical potential, while the thermoelectric effect converts temperature change with \"position\" into electrical potential.\n\nAlthough artificial pyroelectric materials have been engineered, the effect was first discovered in minerals such as tourmaline. The pyroelectric effect is also present in bone and tendon.\n\nThe most important example is gallium nitride, a semiconductor. The large electric fields in this material are detrimental in light emitting diodes (LEDs), but useful for the production of power transistors. \n\nProgress has been made in creating artificial pyroelectric materials, usually in the form of a thin film, using gallium nitride (GaN), caesium nitrate (CsNO), polyvinyl fluorides, derivatives of phenylpyridine, and cobalt phthalocyanine. Lithium tantalate (LiTaO) is a crystal exhibiting both piezoelectric and pyroelectric properties, which has been used to create small-scale nuclear fusion (\"pyroelectric fusion\").\n\nVery small changes in temperature can produce a pyroelectric potential. Passive infrared sensors are often designed around pyroelectric materials, as the heat of a human or animal from several feet away is enough to generate a voltage. \n\nA pyroelectric can be repeatedly heated and cooled (analogously to a heat engine) to generate usable electrical power. One group calculated that a pyroelectric in an Ericsson cycle could reach 50% of Carnot efficiency, while a different study found a material that could, in theory, reach 84-92% of Carnot efficiency (these efficiency values are for the pyroelectric itself, ignoring losses from heating and cooling the substrate, other heat-transfer losses, and all other losses elsewhere in the system). Possible advantages of pyroelectric generators for generating electricity (as compared to the conventional heat engine plus electrical generator) include: potentially lower operating temperatures, less bulky equipment, and fewer moving parts. Although a few patents have been filed for such a device, such generators do not appear to be anywhere close to commercialization.\n\nPyroelectric materials have been used to generate large electric fields necessary to steer deuterium ions in a nuclear fusion process. This is known as pyroelectric fusion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161253", "title": "Quantum fluctuation", "text": "Quantum fluctuation\n\nIn quantum physics, a quantum fluctuation (or vacuum state fluctuation or vacuum fluctuation) is the temporary change in the amount of energy in a point in space, as explained in Werner Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.\n\nThis allows the creation of particle-antiparticle pairs of virtual particles. The effects of these particles are measurable, for example, in the effective charge of the electron, different from its \"naked\" charge.\n\nQuantum fluctuations may have been very important in the origin of the structure of the universe: according to the model of expansive inflation the ones that existed when inflation began were amplified and formed the seed of all current observed structure. Vacuum energy may also be responsible for the current accelerating expansion of the universe (cosmological constant).\n\nAccording to one formulation of the principle, energy and time can be related by the relation\n\nIn the modern view, energy is always conserved, but because the particle number operator does not commute with a field's Hamiltonian or energy operator, the field's lowest-energy or ground state, often called the vacuum state, is not, as one might expect from that name, a state with no particles, but rather a quantum superposition of particle number eigenstates with 0, 1, 2...etc. particles.\n\nA quantum fluctuation is the temporary appearance of energetic particles out of empty space, as allowed by the uncertainty principle. The uncertainty principle states that for a pair of conjugate variables such as position/momentum or energy/time, it is impossible to have a precisely determined value of each member of the pair at the same time. For example, a particle pair can pop out of the vacuum during a very short time interval.\n\nAn extension is applicable to the \"uncertainty in time\" and \"uncertainty in energy\" (including the rest mass energy formula_2). When the mass is very large like a macroscopic object, the uncertainties and thus the quantum effect become very small, and classical physics is applicable.\n\nIn quantum field theory, fields undergo quantum fluctuations. A reasonably clear distinction can be made between quantum fluctuations and thermal fluctuations of a quantum field (at least for a free field; for interacting fields, renormalization substantially complicates matters). For the quantized Klein–Gordon field in the vacuum state, we can calculate the probability density that we would observe a configuration formula_3 at a time formula_4 in terms of its Fourier transform formula_5 to be\nIn contrast, for the classical Klein–Gordon field at non-zero temperature, the Gibbs probability density that we would observe a configuration formula_3 at a time formula_4 is\nThe amplitude of quantum fluctuations is controlled by Planck's constant formula_10, just as the amplitude of thermal fluctuations is controlled by formula_11, where formula_12 is Boltzmann's constant. Note that the following three points are closely related:\n\n\nWe can construct a classical continuous random field that has the same probability density as the quantum vacuum state, so that the principal difference from quantum field theory is the measurement theory (measurement in quantum theory is different from measurement for a classical continuous random field, in that classical measurements are always mutually compatible — in quantum mechanical terms they always commute). Quantum effects that are consequences only of quantum fluctuations, not of subtleties of measurement incompatibility, can alternatively be models of classical continuous random fields.\n\nIn the 1930s, Pascual Jordan knew that a star could equal zero energy because its matter energy was positive and its gravitational energy was negative and they cancelled each other out. And this led him to speculate what would prevent a quantum transition from creating a new star. And he had this idea because he was trying to figure out where matter might come from if we existed in an always-here \nuniverse.\n\nIn December, 1973, the British scientific journal \"Nature\" published an article by Edward P. Tryon titled \"Is the Universe a Vacuum Fluctuation?\" In this paper Tryon said our universe may have originated as a quantum fluctuation of the vacuum. Yet, the idea of our universe coming from a quantum fluctuation or quantum process was not taken seriously until inflationary theory came and was able to explain how our universe could inflate from a tiny particle.\n\nThe success of quantum fluctuation theories have given way to metaphysical interpretations on the nature of reality and their potential role in the origin and structure of the universe:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4999193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4999193", "title": "Radicidation", "text": "Radicidation\n\nRadicidation is a specific case of food irradiation where the dose of ionizing radiation applied to the food is sufficient to reduce the number of viable specific non-spore-forming pathogenic bacteria to such a level that none are detectable when the treated food is examined by any recognized method. The required dose is in the range of 2 - 8 kGy. The term may also be applied to the destruction of parasites such as tapeworm and trichina in meat, in which case the required dose is in the range of 0.1 - 1 kGy. When the process is used specifically for destroying enteropathogenic and enterotoxinogenic organisms belonging to the genus Salmonella, it is referred to as Salmonella radicidation.\n\nThe term Radicidation is derived from radiation and 'caedere' (Latin for fell, cut, kill).\n"}
{"id": "3188227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3188227", "title": "Radioisotope piezoelectric generator", "text": "Radioisotope piezoelectric generator\n\nA Radioisotope piezoelectric generator converts energy stored in the radioactive material directly into motion to generate electricity by the repeated deformation of a piezoelectric material. This approach creates a high-impedance source and, unlike chemical batteries, the devices will work in a very wide range of temperatures.\n\nA piezoelectric cantilever is mounted directly above a base of the radioactive isotope nickel-63. All of the radiation emitted as the millicurie-level nickel-63 thin film decays is in the form of beta radiation, which consists of electrons. As the cantilever accumulates the emitted electrons, it builds up a negative charge at the same time that the isotope film becomes positively charged. The beta particles essentially transfer electronic charge from the thin film to the cantilever. The opposite charges cause the cantilever to bend toward the isotope film. Just as the cantilever touches the thin-film isotope, the charge jumps the gap. That permits current to flow back onto the isotope, equalizing the charge and resetting the cantilever. As long as the isotope is decaying - a process that can last for decades - the tiny cantilever will continue its up-and-down motion. As the cantilever directly generates electricity when deformed, a charge pulse is released each time the cantilever cycles.\n\nRadioactive isotopes can continue to release energy over periods ranging from weeks to decades. The half-life of nickel-63, for example, is over 100 years. Thus, a battery using this isotope might continue to supply useful energy for at least half that time. Researchers have demonstrated devices with about 7% efficiency with high frequencies of 120 Hz to low-frequency (every three hours) self-reciprocating actuators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30635101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30635101", "title": "Regius Professor of Natural History (Aberdeen)", "text": "Regius Professor of Natural History (Aberdeen)\n\nThe Regius Professor of Natural History is a Regius Professorship at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland. It was originally called the Regius Professor of Civil and Natural History at Marischal College until in 1860 Marischal College and King's Colleges merged to form the University of Aberdeen, and the title changed to Natural History.\n"}
{"id": "664649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=664649", "title": "SCISAT-1", "text": "SCISAT-1\n\nSCISAT-1 is a Canadian satellite designed to make observations of the Earth's atmosphere. Its main instruments are an optical Fourier transform infrared spectrometer, the ACE-FTS Instrument, and an ultraviolet spectrophotometer, MAESTRO. These devices record spectra of the Sun, as sunlight passes through the Earth's atmosphere, making analyses of the chemical elements of the atmosphere possible.\n\nSCISAT is a relatively small satellite weighing . It is partly drum shaped with a diameter of about five feet and a depth of about five feet. The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) coordinated its design, launch and use. The main contractors were Bristol Aerospace of Winnipeg, Manitoba, who were prime contractor for the bus, and ABB Bomem Inc. of Quebec City, Quebec who developed the ACE-FTS instrument. The total development cost of SCISAT, as estimated by the CSA in 2003, was about CDN$60M. As of years after launch, the satellite and its instruments are still operating.\n\nThe ACE-FTS instrument is the main payload of the SCISAT-1 spacecraft. The primary scientific goal of the Atmospheric Chemistry Experiment (ACE) is to measure and understand the chemical and dynamical processes that control the distribution of ozone in the upper troposphere and stratosphere. The principle of ACE measurement is the solar occultation technique. A high inclination (74 degrees), low Earth orbit will provide ACE coverage of tropical, mid-latitudes and polar regions.\n\nThe spectrometer is an adapted version of the classical Michelson interferometer using an optimized optical layout. Its highly folded double-pass optical design results in a very high performance instrument with a compact size. A signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) better than 100 is achieved, with a field-of-view (FOV) of 1.25 mrad and an aperture diameter of 100 mm (4\"). A semiconductor laser is used as the metrology source of the interferometer sub-system.\n\nThe auxiliary Visible/Near-infrared Imager (VNI) monitors aerosols based on the extinction of solar radiation using two filtered detectors at 0.525 and 1.02 micrometres. The instrument also includes a Suntracker mechanism providing fine pointing toward the radiometric center of the Sun with stability better than 3 μrad. The ACE-FTS instrument was launched on August 12, 2003.\n\nABB was the prime contractor for the design and manufacturing of the ACE-FTS instrument.\n\nThe Measurements of Aerosol Extinction in the Stratosphere and Troposphere Retrieved by Occultation (MAESTRO) instrument aboard SCISAT-1 measures the vertical distribution of ozone, nitrogen dioxide, water vapour, and aerosols in the Earth's atmosphere. MAESTRO consists of a UV-VIS-NIR spectrophotometer that measures the 285-1030 nm spectral region.\n\nSCISAT passes through the Earth's shadow 15 times per day, profiting from the occultation of the Sun to make a spectrographic analysis of the structure and chemistry of those parts of the upper atmosphere that are too high to be reached by balloons and airplanes and too low to be visited by orbiting satellites. This kind of analysis can help understand the depletion of the ozone layer and other upper atmosphere phenomena.\n\nSCISAT was placed in low Earth orbit, or LEO, by a Pegasus rocket launched from a NASA Lockheed L-1011 carrier aircraft on August 12, 2003 from Vandenberg Air Force Base. Expected to operate for two to five years, it was still operational in 2018. Current information may be obtained from the ACE Mission Information for Public Data Release report.\n\nThe University of Waterloo, York University, the University of Toronto, and several other Canadian universities collaborated in the design of the experiments, and in several aspects of the testing of the satellite.\n\n"}
{"id": "5988682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5988682", "title": "Silcrete", "text": "Silcrete\n\nSilcrete is an indurated soil duricrust formed when surface sand and gravel are cemented by dissolved silica. The formation of silcrete is similar to that of calcrete, formed by calcium carbonate and ferricrete, formed by iron oxide. It is a hard and resistant material, and though different in origin and nature, appears similar to quartzite. It is common in the arid regions of Australia and Africa often forming the resistant cap rock on features such as the \"breakaways\" of the Stuart Range of South Australia. Silcrete can be found at a lesser extent throughout the world especially England and France.\n\nIn Australia, silcrete was widely used by Aboriginal people for stone tool manufacture, and as such, it was a tradeable commodity, and silcrete tools can be found in areas that have no silcrete groundmass at all, similar to the European use of flint.\n\nTools made out of silcrete which has not been heat treated are difficult to make with flintknapping techniques. It is widely believed by stone tool experts that the technology to treat silcrete by burying under a hot fire was known 25,000 years ago in Europe. Heating changes the stone structure making it more easily flaked. This process may have been the first use of so-called pyrotechnology by early mankind. \nIn South Africa at Pinnacle Point researchers have determined that two types of silcrete tools were developed between 60,000 and 80,000 years ago and used the heat treatment technique. There is evidence to suggest the technique may have been known as early as 164,000 years ago.\n\nThe peoples of the African Middle Stone Age (MSA) showed a preference for silcrete tools, sourcing the material from up to 200 km to use in place of more accessible quartz and quartzite. MSA quarries have recently been found in Botswana south of the Okavango Delta. Evidence was found that raw silcrete blanks and blocks were transported prior to heat treating during the MSA. The geochemical signatures of the fragments can be used to identify where many of the individual pieces were quarried.\n"}
{"id": "37396683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37396683", "title": "Suncup (snow)", "text": "Suncup (snow)\n\nSuncups are bowl-shaped open depressions into a snow surface, normally wider than they are deep. They form closely packed, honeycomb, often hexagonal patterns with sharp narrow ridges separating smoothly concave hollows. For a given set of suncups, the hollows are normally all around the same size, meaning that the pattern is quasi-periodic on 20–80 cm scales. The depressions are typically 2–50 cm deep.\n\nSuncups form during the ablation (melting away) of snowy surfaces. It is thought they can form in a number of different ways. These include melting of clean snow by incident solar radiation in bright sunny conditions, but also during melting away of dirty snow under windy or overcast conditions, during which particles in the snow accumulate on the crests between hollows, insulating them.\n\n"}
{"id": "190933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190933", "title": "Sunset", "text": "Sunset\n\nSunset or sundown is the daily disappearance of the Sun below the horizon due to Earth's rotation. As viewed from the Equator, the equinox Sun sets exactly due west in both spring and fall. As viewed from the middle latitudes, the local summer Sun sets to the northwest for the Northern Hemisphere, but to the southwest for the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThe time of sunset is defined in astronomy as the moment when the upper limb of the Sun disappears below the horizon. Near the horizon, atmospheric refraction causes sunlight rays to be distorted to such an extent that geometrically the solar disk is already about one diameter below the horizon when a sunset is observed.\n\nSunset is distinct from twilight, which is divided into three stages, the first being \"civil\" twilight, which begins once the Sun has disappeared below the horizon, and continues until it descends to 6 degrees below the horizon; the second phase is \"nautical\" twilight, between 6 and 12 degrees below the horizon; and the third is \"astronomical\" twilight, which is the period when the Sun is between 12 and 18 degrees below the horizon. \"Dusk\" is at the very end of astronomical twilight, and is the darkest moment of twilight just before night. Night occurs when the Sun reaches 18 degrees below the horizon and no longer illuminates the sky.\n\nLocations further north than the Arctic Circle and further south than the Antarctic Circle experience no full sunset or sunrise on at least one day of the year, when the polar day or the polar night persists continuously for 24 hours, but full polar night occurs only at a latitude of more than about 72.5 degrees.\n\nSunset creates unique atmospheric conditions such as the often intense orange and red colors of the Sun and the surrounding sky.\n\nThe time of sunset varies throughout the year, and is determined by the viewer's position on Earth, specified by longitude and latitude, and elevation. Small daily changes and noticeable semi-annual changes in the timing of sunsets are driven by the axial tilt of Earth, daily rotation of the Earth, the planet's movement in its annual elliptical orbit around the Sun, and the Earth and Moon's paired revolutions around each other. During winter and spring, the days get longer and sunsets occur later every day until the day of the latest sunset, which occurs after the summer solstice. In the Northern Hemisphere, the latest sunset occurs late in June or in early July, but not on the summer solstice of June 21. This date depends on the viewer's latitude (connected with the Earth's slower movement around the aphelion around July 4). Likewise, the earliest sunset does not occur on the winter solstice, but rather about two weeks earlier, again depending on the viewer's latitude. In the Northern Hemisphere, it occurs in early December or late November (influenced by the Earth's faster movement near its perihelion, which occurs around January 3).\n\nLikewise, the same phenomenon exists in the Southern Hemisphere, but with the respective dates reversed, with the earliest sunsets occurring some time before June 21 in winter, and latest sunsets occurring some time after December 21 in summer, again depending on one's southern latitude. For a few weeks surrounding both solstices, both sunrise and sunset get slightly later each day. Even on the equator, sunrise and sunset shift several minutes back and forth through the year, along with solar noon. These effects are plotted by an analemma.\n\nNeglecting atmospheric refraction and the Sun's non-zero size, whenever and wherever sunset occurs, it is always in the northwest quadrant from the March equinox to the September equinox, and in the southwest quadrant from the September equinox to the March equinox. Sunsets occur almost exactly due west on the equinoxes for all viewers on Earth. Exact calculations of the azimuths of sunset on other dates are complex, but they can be estimated with reasonable accuracy by using the analemma.\n\nAs sunrise and sunset are calculated from the leading and trailing edges of the Sun, respectively, and not the center, the duration of a daytime is slightly longer than nighttime (by about 10 minutes, as seen from temperate latitudes). Further, because the light from the Sun is refracted as it passes through the Earth's atmosphere, the Sun is still visible after it is geometrically below the horizon. Refraction also affects the apparent shape of the Sun when it is very close to the horizon. It makes things appear higher in the sky than they really are. Light from the bottom edge of the Sun's disk is refracted more than light from the top, since refraction increases as the angle of elevation decreases. This raises the apparent position of the bottom edge more than the top, reducing the apparent height of the solar disk. Its width is unaltered, so the disk appears wider than it is high. (In reality, the Sun is almost exactly spherical.) The Sun also appears larger on the horizon, an optical illusion, similar to the moon illusion.\n\nLocations north of the Arctic Circle and south of the Antarctic Circle experience no sunset or sunrise at least one day of the year, when the polar day or the polar night persist continuously for 24 hours.\n\nAs a ray of white sunlight travels through the atmosphere to an observer, some of the colors are scattered out of the beam by air molecules and airborne particles, changing the final color of the beam the viewer sees.\nBecause the shorter wavelength components, such as blue and green, scatter more strongly, these colors are preferentially removed from the beam.\nAt sunrise and sunset, when the path through the atmosphere is longer, the blue and green components are removed almost completely, leaving the longer wavelength orange and red hues we see at those times. The remaining reddened sunlight can then be scattered by cloud droplets and other relatively large particles to light up the horizon red and orange. The removal of the shorter wavelengths of light is due to Rayleigh scattering by air molecules and particles much smaller than the wavelength of visible light (less than 50 nm in diameter). The scattering by cloud droplets and other particles with diameters comparable to or larger than the sunlight's wavelengths (> 600 nm) is due to Mie scattering and is not strongly wavelength-dependent. Mie scattering is responsible for the light scattered by clouds, and also for the daytime halo of white light around the Sun (forward scattering of white light).\nSunset colors are typically more brilliant than sunrise colors, because the evening air contains more particles than morning air.\n\nAsh from volcanic eruptions, trapped within the troposphere, tends to mute sunset and sunrise colors, while volcanic ejecta that is instead lofted into the stratosphere (as thin clouds of tiny sulfuric acid droplets), can yield beautiful post-sunset colors called afterglows and pre-sunrise glows. A number of eruptions, including those of Mount Pinatubo in 1991 and Krakatoa in 1883, have produced sufficiently high stratospheric sulfuric acid clouds to yield remarkable sunset afterglows (and pre-sunrise glows) around the world. The high altitude clouds serve to reflect strongly reddened sunlight still striking the stratosphere after sunset, down to the surface. Sometimes just before sunrise or after sunset a green flash can be seen.\n\nSome of the most varied colors at sunset can be found in the opposite or eastern sky after the Sun has set during twilight. Depending on weather conditions and the types of clouds present, these colors have a wide spectrum, and can produce unusual results.\n\nIn some languages, points of the compass bear names etymologically derived from words for sunrise and sunset. The English words \"orient\" and \"occident\", meaning \"east\" and \"west\", respectively, are descended from Latin words meaning \"sunrise\" and \"sunset\". The word \"levant\", related e.g. to French \"(se) lever\" meaning \"lift\" or \"rise\" (and also to English \"elevate\"), is also used to describe the east. In Polish, the word for east \"wschód\" (\"vskhud\"), is derived from the morpheme \"ws\" – meaning \"up\", and \"chód\" – signifying \"move\" (from the verb \"chodzić\" – meaning \"walk, move\"), due to the act of the Sun coming up from behind the horizon. The Polish word for west, \"zachód\" (\"zakhud\"), is similar but with the word \"za\" at the start, meaning \"behind\", from the act of the Sun going behind the horizon. In Russian, the word for west, \"запад\" (\"zapad\"), is derived from the words \"за\" – meaning \"behind\", and \"пад\" – signifying \"fall\" (from the verb \"падать\" – \"padat\"'), due to the act of the Sun falling behind the horizon. In Hebrew, the word for east is 'מזרח', which derives from the word for rising, and the word for west is 'מערב', which derives from the word for setting.\n\nThe 16th-century astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus was the first to present to the world a detailed and eventually widely accepted mathematical model supporting the premise that the Earth is moving and the Sun actually stays still, despite the impression from our point of view of a moving Sun.\n\nSunsets on other planets appear different because of differences in the distance of the planet from the Sun and non-existent or differing atmospheric compositions.\n\nOn Mars, the setting Sun appears about two-thirds the size it appears on Earth because of its greater distance from the Sun, but some Martian sunsets last significantly longer and appear far redder than is typical on Earth.\n\nThe colors of the Martian sunset differ from those on Earth. Mars has a thin atmosphere, lacking oxygen and nitrogen, so the light scattering is not dominated by a Rayleigh Scattering process. Instead, the air is full of red dust, blown into the atmosphere by high winds, so its sky color is mainly determined by a Mie Scattering process. One study also reported that Martian dust high in the atmosphere can reflect sunlight up to two hours after the sun has set, casting a diffuse glow across the surface of Mars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7438468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7438468", "title": "Tunda", "text": "Tunda\n\nThe Tunda () is a myth of the Pacific coastal region of Colombia and Ecuador, and particularly in the Afro-American community of the Chocó department, about a shapeshifting entity, resembling a human female, that lures people into the forests and keeps them there.\n\nIt is capable to change its shape to appear in the form of a loved one, as in the likeness of a child's mother, to would lure its victims into the forest and feed it with shrimps (\"camarones peneídos\") to keep it docile. This is called \"entundamiento\" and a person in this state is \"entundado(a)\".\n\nHer shapeshifting abilities are said to be imperfect, as this \"doppelgänger\" of sorts would always have a wooden leg in the shape of a \"molinillo\", or wooden kitchen utensil used to stir hot drinks such as chocolate or \"aguapanela\". The monster, however, is very cunning when trying to hide this defect from its would-be victims. In other versions, it appears to male loggers or hunters working deep into the jungle as a beautiful woman that tries to lure a man away, so it can reveal its hideous nature and suck his blood or devour him as a wild animal.\n\n\n"}
