{"id": "14175787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14175787", "title": "1973–74 Quebec Nordiques season", "text": "1973–74 Quebec Nordiques season\n\nThe 1973–74 Quebec Nordiques season was the Nordiques second season, as they were coming off a 33–40–5 record, earning 71 points, failing to qualify for the playoffs in their first season.\n\nThe Nordiques would replace head coach Maurice Filion in the off-season, and name recently retired NHL superstar goaltender Jacques Plante as head coach of the team. The club also acquired Serge Bernier from the Los Angeles Kings and Rejean Houle from the Montreal Canadiens of the NHL to try to spark the offense.\n\nThe Nordiques would improve and finish over .500 for the first time in team history with a 38–36–4 record, however, they would once again come up short for a playoff berth, finishing only 1 point behind the Chicago Cougars for the final spot.\n\nOffensively, Quebec was led by Serge Bernier, as he would post a team best 86 points, scoring a Nordiques record 37 goals along the way. Bob Guindon would have a very solid season, scoring 31 goals and 70 points, while Alain Coron would also score 31 goals while appearing in only 59 games due to injuries. Defenseman J. C. Tremblay would anchor the defense, scoring 9 goals and earning 53 points, while Pierre Roy supplied the team toughness, recording 137 penalty minutes in only 44 games.\n\nIn goal, Richard Brodeur would lead the Nordiques in wins with 15 and save percentage at .901, while Michel DeGuise would post a team best 3.29 GAA, playing in a team high 32 games. Serge Aubry also had some playing time, winning 11 games.\n\nQuebec's draft picks from the 1973 WHA Amateur Draft.\n\n"}
{"id": "29438305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29438305", "title": "2009 Abierto Internacional Varonil Casablanca Cancún", "text": "2009 Abierto Internacional Varonil Casablanca Cancún\n\nThe 2009 Abierto Internacional Varonil Casablanca Cancún was a professional tennis tournament played on outdoor red clay courts. It was the second edition of the tournament which was part of the 2009 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Cancún, Mexico between 16 and 22 November 2009.\n\n\nThe following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:\n\nThe following players received entry from the qualifying draw:\n\n Nicolás Massú def. Grega Žemlja, 6–3, 7–5\n\n Andre Begemann / Leonardo Tavares def. Greg Ouellette / Adil Shamasdin, 6–1, 6–7(6), [10–8]\n\n"}
{"id": "25155390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25155390", "title": "2009 European football betting scandal", "text": "2009 European football betting scandal\n\nThe 2009 European football betting scandal was an attempt to influence the outcome of professional association football matches in Europe, and to defraud the gambling industry by betting on the results. The investigation centres on around two-hundred fixtures, including domestic league games in nine European countries: Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Croatia, Slovenia, Turkey, Hungary, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Austria. It also involved twelve qualifying matches in the UEFA Europa League, and three in the UEFA Champions League. Peter Limacher, a spokesman for European football's governing body UEFA, described it as \"the biggest match-fixing scandal ever to hit Europe.\"\n\nThe 2009 European football betting scandal was considered to be the biggest affair in European football since the 2005 football scandal of referee Robert Hoyzer and the Bundesliga-scandal in the 1970/71 season when numerous players, coaches and officials were involved in game shifts. The extent and effects were regarded as even greater than in the previous manipulations in football. Some newspapers refer to this scandal as the \"biggest fraud scandal of all time\" and Peter Limacher, head of the disciplinary department of UEFA, spoke of it as the \"biggest fraud scandal ever in European football\".\n\nAccording to information from the Bochum prosecutor's office on 20 November 2009, at least 200 football matches had been manipulated in nine European countries since the beginning of 2009. The fraudsters had bribed players, coaches and officials to influence gameplay.\n\nThe two Croatian brothers Ante and Milan Sapina were arrested on 19 November 2009 and held responsible for fraud involving the betting manipulated games in Asia (provider: SBOBET with license in the Philippines and Europe, totaling about 10 million Euro. They had already been given a prison sentence after the 2005 football scandal. A further 15 persons were arrested in Germany. More than 50 house searches were carried out in North Rhine-Westphalia, Baden-Wurttemberg, Bavaria, Berlin, Lower Saxony, Schleswig-Holstein, Switzerland, Austria and the United Kingdom. Cash and assets of more than one million Euro were ceased.\n\nThe UEFA European Football Association suspended the Ukrainian referee Oleg Orijechow, in connection with the betting scandal, and who had supposedly been in personal contact with a member of the betting mafia, according to Spiegel Online. He was summoned to Nyon for a personal hearing at the Federation Center following an investigation by UEFA's anti-corruption unit.\nUEFA revealed in March 2009 that they were bringing charges against an unnamed European club, later revealed to be Macedonian side FK Pobeda. Pobeda were found guilty of match-fixing in a tie against Armenian club Pyunik in 2004. As a consequence, the club was handed an eight-year ban from all European competitions, and club president Aleksandar Zabrčanec and former captain Nikolce Zdravevski were given lifetime European football bans. UEFA president Michel Platini revealed that his organisation were stepping up their efforts to eradicate match fixing in the game, and that 27,000 fixtures would be monitored in the 2009–10 season.\n\nThe fraud was discovered through telephone tapping of organized crime activities and has been investigated by the Prosecutorial Office at Bochum, Germany. On 19 November 2009 a series of raids were conducted in the UK, Germany, Switzerland and Austria in relation to the betting investigation. They resulted in fifteen arrests in Germany, and a further two in Switzerland, as well as the seizure of cash and property.\n\nIn Germany at least 32 games from the 2. Bundesliga to the junior area were manipulated. Including four games of the 2. Bundesliga, three games of the 3. Liga, 18 games in the Regionalliga, Oberliga games and two games from the U-19 division.\n\nIn September 2010, the public-law TV magazine Fakt reported that thirteen 2nd and five 3rd league games, 20 regional league games, five league games, as well as, two games in the DFB-Pokal, five U-19 games and other individual friendly games, were under suspicion of manipulation.\n\nA DFB referee was also accused of having been bribed by the alleged fraudulent betters in a regional league game in May 2009.\n\nIn course of the investigation, basketball player of the Brose Baskets from Bamberg, Ivan Pavic, and the Würzburger landes league player, Kristian Sprećaković, were also arrested on 19 November 2009.\n\nFour games of the SSV Ulm 1846 in the final phase of the Regionalliga season 2008/09 were under suspicion of manipulation. On 27 November 2009, the club announced the denunciation of the Croatian players Davor Kraljevic, Marijo Marinovic and Dinko Radojevic in association with the betting scandal.\n\nOn 24 November 2009, football regional league club SC Verl, suspended midfielders Patrick Neumann and Tim Hagedorn from games and training. The club received indications of attempted tampering for the game against Borussia Mönchengladbach II (4-3) and 1. FC Köln II (0-1) in the 2008/09 season. On 28 November 2009, Neumann admitted to Bochum prosecutor's office that he receive 500 Euro, making him the first professional to sign a confession in the betting scandal. However, he continued to deny any activity in the manipulations.\n\nDefencemen Marcel Schuon confirmed to the Bochum prosecutor's office, that during his time at VfL Osnabrück, manipulation took place in the second league game against FC Augsburg (0-3) on 17 April 2009. In which he refused to inform anyone of until after the game, which ended as planned 0-3, therefore Schuon was issued a five-digit fine. At the beginning of the 2009/10 season, Schuon switched to the third division team SV Sandhausen, where he was removed by the team at the end of November 2009 due to his involvement in the betting scandal.\n\nIn Austria, 11 matches of the Bundesliga and the First League were affected.\n\nAccording to UEFA, no Austrian clubs were specifically involved in the betting scandal. Only two European League qualifying matches of the SK Rapid Wien against KS Vllaznia Shkodra (5-0 and 3-0 for Rapid) were suspected of manipulation according to press reports. At the beginning of March 2011, betting allegations about the Austrian Bundesliga club Kapfenberger SV were announced, where, according to various media reports, players of the club had been handed large sums of money, and accused of having perilously lost the 2009/10 season games against FC Red Bull Salzburg (0-4), the SK Rapid Wien (0-1) and FK Austria Wien (0-1). Also at this time, a defensive player from Kapfenberg, among others, was reported to have received €200,000 through a middleman.\n\nIn Switzerland, 22 matches of the Challenge League and six test games were affected. At least one attempt to manipulate games of the Super League had occurred, but the addressed player reported the bribery attempt to the federation. Two suspects have been arrested.\n\nThe federal prosecutor suspected FC Thun players to have manipulated the game against Yverdon Sport FC on 26 April. The suspicion was that FC Thun should lose the game with four goals difference, and the game actually ended 5-1. The Thun striker Pape Omar Faye was interrogated by the police, the week before the trophy game against Winterthur (22 November 2009) and then suspended by the club. Since a striker, from his playing position, can hardly be responsible for five goals against, other players were suspected of having received several 10,000 euros.\n\nFC Gossau suffered a striking series of defeats at the end of the 2008/09 season. The federal prosecutor suspected specifically players of FC Gossau of having manipulated the games against FC Locarno on 24 May 2009 and against Servette FC. FC Gossau was expected to lose the game against Locarno with at least four goals difference and the game actually ended 0-4. The then goalkeeper of Gossau, Darko Damjanovic, was said have been taken into custody by police, but went undercover. Gossau’s midfielder, Mario Bigoni, publicly stated that a previous season's game was \"not clean\" and that he had received a bid from a fellow player. Although it was not known if Bigoni had accepted the offer, he was suspended by his club. Also supposedly Gossau received tens of thousands of euros, 20,000 alone for the game against Locarno. On 26 October 2011, the police confirmed that Bigoni had been found dead three days earlier in the Alter Rhein near Rheineck.\n\nThe Bosnian club, NK Travnik, completed a training camp in Switzerland in the summer of 2009, with test matches against the clubs Neuchâtel Xamax (2-3), Servette FC Genève (1-3) and FC Sion (1-4). It became known that a betting syndicate from Asia was financially involved in the costs of the training camp. The president of FC Sion, Christian Constantin, publicly voiced the suspicions that the Bosnians let win FC Sion.\n\nThe Chinese police arrested a total of 16 people, including 12 club members and four high-ranking football officials, including the former vice president of the Chinese Football Association, Yang Xu, on 25 November 2009, in the wake of the international inquiries of the betting scandal.\n\nAll matches under investigation were played in 2009.\nUEFA revealed on 25 November 2009 that seven matches played in UEFA competitions would be investigated in further detail, and that five clubs were under investigation; KF Tirana, FC Dinaburg, KS Vllaznia, NK IB Ljubljana and Budapest Honvéd. It also revealed that it was conducting its own investigation of three referees and one other individual connected with UEFA in relation to these games.\n\n2nd qualifying round for the Champions League\n\n2nd qualifying round for the Europa League\n\n3rd qualifying round for the Europa League\n\nIndependent from the investigations conducted by the Bochum prosecutor's office, another betting scandal was reported in Italy on 23 November 2009. The President of the Italian football club Potenza, Giuseppe Postiglione, and eight other officials (including Antonio Lopiano and Antonio De Angelis) of Potenza, and Antonio Possidente, a member of the Mafia, were arrested by the Carabinieri for tampering Football matches. The several month long investigation involved a game of the Serie B in the 2007/08 season, as well as, seven games of the Lega Pro Prima Divisione in the 2008/09 season.\n\nOn 14 April 2011, the 13th Criminal Court of the Bochum District, sentenced better Tuna A. and the betting office operator Stevan R., to three years and eight months and three years and eleven months, on the account of fraud. Betting office operator Nürretin G. was given a three-year prison sentence on the account of fraud. Tuna A. and Nurretin G. had already spent 13 months of their sentence while being held during examination. In the course of the trial, all three defendants had admitted to the manipulation of 32 games and of having bribed players.\n\nIn May 2011, Ante Sapina was sentenced to five and a half years' imprisonment by the District Court of Bochum. Marijo Cvrtak was also sentenced to five and a half years' imprisonment and Dragan M. received a probation sentence of one year and six months.\n\nIn December 2012, the Federal Court of Justice declared the previous rulings against Sapina and an accomplices for non-appealable and dismissed them.\n\nIn March 2013, Milan Sapina was sentenced to ten months' imprisonment by the district court of Bochum, the sentence was largely waived in March 2014, leaving only a four-month imprisonment time.\n\nIn April 2014, Ante Sapina was sentenced to five years' imprisonment by the District Court of Bochum.\n\n"}
{"id": "6549393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6549393", "title": "AT&amp;T Stadium", "text": "AT&amp;T Stadium\n\nAT&T Stadium, formerly Cowboys Stadium, is a retractable roof stadium in Arlington, Texas, United States. It serves as the home of the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League (NFL) and was completed on May 27, 2009. It is also the home of the Cotton Bowl Classic and the Big 12 Championship Game. The facility, owned by the city of Arlington, can also be used for a variety of other activities such as concerts, basketball games, college and high school football contests, soccer matches, rodeos and motocross and Spartan races. It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium, which served as the Cowboys' home from 1971 through the 2008 season.\n\nThe stadium is sometimes referred to as \"Jerry World\" after Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, who originally envisioned it as a large entertainment mecca. The stadium seats 80,000, making it the fourth largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity. The maximum capacity of the stadium with standing room is 105,000. The record attendance for an NFL game was set in 2009 with a crowd of 105,121. The Party Pass (open areas) sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways. It also has the world's 29th largest high definition video screen, which hangs from 20-yard line to 20-yard line.\n\nOriginally estimated to cost $650 million, the stadium's current construction cost was $1.15 billion, making it one of the most expensive sports venues ever built. To aid Cowboys owner and general manager Jerry Jones in paying the construction costs of the new stadium, Arlington voters approved the increase of the city's sales tax by 0.5%, the hotel occupancy tax by 2%, and car rental tax by 5%. The City of Arlington provided over $325 million (including interest) in bonds as funding, and Jones covered any cost overruns. Also, the NFL provided the Cowboys with an additional $150 million loan, following its policy for facilitating financing for the construction of new stadiums.\n\nA pair of nearly -tall arches spans the length of the stadium dome, anchored to the ground at each end. The new stadium also includes \"more than 3,000 Sony LCD displays throughout the luxury suites, concourses, concession areas and more, offering fans viewing options that extend beyond the action on the field\". It also houses a center-hung Mitsubishi video display board that was the largest high-definition television screen in the world at the time of their installation. It has since been surpassed in size by the Panasonic \"Big Hoss\" video board (218 feet (66 m) wide and 94.6 feet (28.8 m) tall) at Texas Motor Speedway. Glass doors, allowing each end zone to be opened, were designed and constructed by Dallas-based Haley-Greer glass systems.\n\nThe retractable roof was designed by structural engineering firm Walter P Moore and the systems were implemented by mechanization consultants Uni-Systems. The electrification of Cowboys Stadium's retractable roof was developed by VAHLE, Inc. These Kinetic Architecture fundamentals will be employed in order to create quick conversions of the facility to accommodate a variety of events. When the design was officially unveiled on December 12, 2006, it showed that, from inside the stadium, the roof (membrane installed by K Post Company of Dallas) will look very similar to the Texas Stadium roof, with its trademark hole. However, it can be covered by the retractable roof panel to protect against the elements.\n\nThe football turf field was built by Hellas Construction. They developed a special SoftTop Convertible Turf System that has 26 interchangeable panels to allow the stadium to host a variety of events from concerts, dirt bike and monster truck rallies to college football, basketball, and soccer games.\n\nA Dallas Cowboys Hall of Fame is planned for the Hall of Fame level. The drawings also include a site for a large sculpture northeast of the stadium, close to Randol Mill Road.\n\nMayor Robert Cluck claimed to use eminent domain as a last resort but most of the properties refused to sell to the city, indicating that the incentive program was not adequate according to Glenn Sodd, an attorney representing some home owners in the area. Attorney Bob Cohen, who is representing some of the property owners, said the city gave many of his clients little incentive to sell. He said he represents the owners of some rental properties who were counting on that monthly revenue for their retirement and said most homeowners cannot afford to re-build or buy in that area with the incentive package.\n\nIt is claimed that the stadium uses more electricity than the whole country of Liberia.\n\n\n\nAlthough the stadium had yet to sell naming rights, many fans started referring to the project with various nicknames such as Jerry World, the \"Death Star\", \"The Palace in Dallas\" (for which announcer Bob Costas was criticized by the Arlington mayor), \"Cowboys Cathedral\", \"Jerrassic Park\" and others. There was also a petition by some fans to have the stadium named after longtime Cowboys' coach Tom Landry.\n\nOn May 13, 2009, Jerry Jones announced the official name as Cowboys Stadium.\n\nOn July 25, 2013, Jerry Jones announced that the Dallas Cowboys had agreed to grant naming rights to AT&T. The name change from Cowboys Stadium to AT&T Stadium took effect immediately. The sponsorship deal was reported to be worth about $17–19 million per year. Facility Solutions Group installed the \"AT&T Stadium\" letters on the top of the stadium. Signage includes two sets of letters tall stretching . The letters are made of lightweight components and aluminum and are insulated and heated to melt ice and snow.\n\nThis is AT&T's fourth major sports venue where it holds the naming rights. The others are AT&T Park in San Francisco, AT&T Center in San Antonio, and Jones AT&T Stadium in Lubbock.\n\nGuinness World Records was on hand at the September 28, 2009 game against the Carolina Panthers to award certificates to the Chairman of Mitsubishi Electric and Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones for the World's Largest High-Definition Video Display. For basketball events played in Cowboys Stadium, such as the 2010 NBA All-Star Game, the video board is actually larger than the court. It has since been surpassed in size by the video boards at TIAA Bank Field.\n\nDuring the debut preseason game of Cowboys Stadium on August 21, 2009, a punt by Tennessee Titans punter A. J. Trapasso hit the 175 feet (53.34 m) wide screen above the field. The punt deflected backwards and was ruled in-play until Titans coach Jeff Fisher informed the officials that the punt struck the scoreboard. By rule, the down was replayed. Jerry Jones believes that Trapasso was trying to hit the scoreboard, saying, \"If you look at how you punt the football, unless you're trying to hit the scoreboard, you punt the ball to get downfield. You certainly want to get some hangtime, but you punt the ball to get downfield, and you sure don't punt the ball down the middle. You punt it off to the side.\" Whether the screen would affect an opposing team's punting strategy has been debated. For teams with strategies centered on maximizing hang-time, physicist Christopher Moore of Longwood University has shown via computer simulation that well-kicked punts have the potential to hit the screen no matter the field position. Trapasso disputed Jones' suggestion that he was intentionally trying to hit the board, and other NFL punters have suggested that the board may pose a problem for longer hang-time punts. The screen was retrofitted with 16 custom winches using 11,000 feet (3.35 km) of domestic galvanized wire rope from Tway Lifting Products to accomplish the safe, efficient transport of the video board in time to make room for U2's massive set during their 360° Tour, and was moved back down after the concert. The video board is also the primary attachment point for up to 370,000 lb (168 metric tons) of concert and theatrical rigging.\n\nOn August 24, 2013, Cowboys punter Chris Jones became the second player to hit the scoreboard. He conceded a touchdown on the re-kick.\n\nOn February 14, 2010, the stadium hosted the 2010 NBA All-Star Game. With an announced crowd of 108,713, the game became the highest-attended basketball game in history, setting a new Guinness World Record. The East squad prevailed with a 141–139 victory over the West.\n\n\n\nAT&T Stadium, then known as Cowboys Stadium, was the site of the 2009 and 2010 Big 12 Championship Games, the last two held prior to the 2010–13 Big 12 Conference realignment. On December 5, 2009, the Texas Longhorns defeated the Nebraska Cornhuskers 13–12 in the 2009 Big 12 Championship Game, the first to be held in the stadium with attendance announced at 76,211. The following year, on December 4, 2010, the Oklahoma Sooners and Nebraska Cornhuskers rekindled their rivalry as the Sooners won 23–20 in the final Big 12 Championship game to date and will return starting with the 2017 season. The stadium was scheduled to host the games through the 2013 season, but the realignment of the Big 12 Conference to 10 teams meant they were not allowed to host a championship game because of NCAA rules requiring conferences to have at least 12 teams divided into two divisions in order to stage a championship game.\n\n\n\nThe Arkansas Razorbacks vs. Texas A&M Aggies football rivalry, which began in 1903, was renewed in 2009 as the Southwest Classic, and was played at Cowboys Stadium from 2009 through 2011. In 2012, Texas A&M joined Arkansas in the Southeastern Conference, and the series reverted to the schools' home fields, Kyle Field in College Station, Texas for the 2012 game and Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium in Fayetteville, Arkansas in 2013. The Southwest Classic returned to AT&T Stadium in 2014 and will remain there through at least 2020.\n\n\nIn 2009, the Big 12 Conference game between the Baylor Bears and Texas Tech Red Raiders was held at Cowboys Stadium, the first time in the series the match-up was held on a neutral site. The game was the highest attended in the series' history, with 71,964 in attendance.\n\nAfter the 2010 game was held at the Cotton Bowl in Fair Park, Dallas during the State Fair of Texas, the series returned to AT&T Stadium for the 2011 and 2012 games. The series' neutral site contract at AT&T Stadium could continue until 2014.\n\n\n\nThe stadium has hosted three world championship boxing fights since its opening, as the large capacity and retractable roof make it an ideal venue for boxing events throughout the year. Two of the sports biggest stars in Manny Pacquiao and Saul \"Canelo\" Álvarez have headlined championship bouts there, with top level boxing set to return on March 16, 2019 when unbeaten champions Errol Spence Jr. and Mikey Garcia square off for the IBF Welterweight Championship.\n\n\n\n\nAT&T Stadium has hosted a round of the AMA Supercross Championship since 2010, replacing Texas Stadium which had been host since 1975.\n\n\n\nOn October 20, 2008, Cowboys owner Jones and New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner announced a joint business venture called Legends Hospitality Management LLC which would operate the concessions and merchandising sales at the new Cowboys stadium in Arlington, Texas, and at the new Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York, along with the stadiums of the Yankees' minor league affiliates. Former Pizza Hut President Michael Rawlings will run the company from its new headquarters in Newark, New Jersey. The company was also backed by Wall Street investment firm Goldman Sachs and Dallas private equity firm CIC Partners LP.\n\nThe Jones family commissioned 18 contemporary artists to create site-specific artworks for the stadium. The stadium features paintings, sculptures, and installations by Franz Ackerman, Doug Aitken, Ricci Albenda, Mel Bochner, Daniel Buren, Olafur Eliasson, Teresita Fernandez, Wayne Gonzales, Terry Haggerty, Trenton Doyle Hancock, Jacqueline Humphries, Jim Isermann, Annette Lawrence, Dave Muller, Gary Simmons, and Lawrence Weiner.\n\nThe fees for premium parking at Dallas Cowboys games are estimated at $75 per game, based on season ticket holder parking charges. The fees to park at major concerts and other sporting events will be nearly $40 per space at the new stadium. A shuttle operates between the T&P Station and Cowboys Stadium for all Cowboys regular season and postseason games and selected college football games, which averages approximately 900 riders per game. For special events like Super Bowl XLV parking prices can increase to as much as $990.\n\nThe stadium was only accessible via the Metro Arlington Xpress (MAX) bus system; a walk from the Collins and Andrews stop which connected with the Trinity Rail Express (TRE) station at CentrePort/DFW Airport. The bus system was an experimental program which commenced in April 2013 and was replaced by a ride-sharing service in December 2017.\n"}
{"id": "582130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582130", "title": "BBC Overseas Sports Personality of the Year", "text": "BBC Overseas Sports Personality of the Year\n\nThe BBC Overseas Sports Personality of the Year is an award presented at the annual BBC Sports Personality of the Year award ceremony. The award is presented to a non-British sportsperson considered to have made the most substantial contribution to a sport in that year. The award was decided by a panel of over 30 sporting journalists. Each panellist voted for their top two choices; their first preference was awarded two points, and their second preference was awarded one point. The winning sportsperson had the most total points. In the case of a points tie, the sportsperson chosen as first preference by the most panellists is the winner. If this is also a tie the award is shared. In 2015 the public voted for this award.\n\nThe Overseas Personality award was first presented in 1960, six years after the BBC Sports Personality of the Year award was introduced. The first recipient of the award was Australian middle distance runner Herb Elliott. Since then, the award has been presented to 49 sportspersons. Swiss tennis player Roger Federer has won the award four times. American boxer Muhammad Ali and Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt have both won the award three times. The award has been shared on three occasions—by Ron Clarke and Gary Player in 1965, Eusébio and Garfield Sobers in 1966, and Evander Holyfield and Michael Johnson in 1996. The husband-and-wife skating duo of Oleg Protopopov and Ludmila Belousova are the only pair to have won the award, doing so in 1968. Belousova was the first woman to become Overseas Personality—she was also the oldest, aged 33. George Moore is the oldest recipient of the award, winning in 1967 aged 44. The youngest recipient of the award is Nadia Comăneci, who won in 1976 at age 15. Boris Becker, who was 18 when he won in 1985, is the youngest male to have won.\n\nTwenty different countries have been represented by the award winners. United States sportspersons have won the award the most times, having had nineteen recipients, two of whom shared the award. Three cricketers have received the award -- Garfield Sobers of Barbados, Brian Lara of Trinidad and Tobago (both of whom played for the West Indies cricket team), and Shane Warne of Australia. Thirteen sporting disciplines have been represented; tennis has the highest representation, with fifteen recipients. The most recent recipient in 2017 was Swiss tennis player Roger Federer.\n\nOnly one winner has ever been stripped of the award – US cyclist Lance Armstrong, whose 2003 award was rescinded by the BBC following the UCI's 2012 decision to strip Armstrong of his titles and ban him for life from the sport.\n\nThis table lists the total number of awards won by nationality based on the principle of \"jus soli\".\nThis table lists the total number of awards won by recipient's sporting profession.\nThis table lists the total number of awards won by gender.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55236308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55236308", "title": "Baxter Cup", "text": "Baxter Cup\n\nThe Baxter Cup is the oldest New Zealand trophy in the sport of curling. First contested in 1884, it is thought to be the oldest still-contested New Zealand sporting trophy.\n\nThe trophy competition was initially held in Dunedin at the Dunedin Curling Club, but went into abeyance in 1895 after that club was dissolved. The competition was next held in Central Otago in 1900, and has been contested irregularly since that time. The competition is currently organised by the Naseby Curling Council as a one-day bonspiel.\n\nThe Baxter Cup was named after David Baxter, a founding member of the Dunedin Curling Club who, who donated the trophy.\n\nThe current (2017) champions are the Kyeburn Curling Club from Kyeburn, who won the final in July 2017 against Ranfurly's Mount Ida Curling Club.\n"}
{"id": "42055509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42055509", "title": "Borleske Stadium", "text": "Borleske Stadium\n\nBorleske Stadium is a multi-purpose outdoor athletic stadium in Walla Walla, Washington.\n\nThe stadium is named for Raymond Vincent Borleske (1887–1957), a legendary Whitman College athlete (class of 1910) and coach. It has served as the home for a variety of professional and amateur teams in both football and baseball.\n\nThe stadium is part of the Borleske Stadium Complex containing Borleske Stadium, Martin Field, and Memorial Pool. It is the home venue of the Whitman College baseball team, the Walla Walla Sweets baseball team (WCL), and the football team of Walla Walla High School. The elevation of the field is approximately above sea level.\n\nThe layout of Borleske Stadium is like most minor league ballparks, although it is unconventionally oriented southeast. The entrance gate is just beyond right field. From the entrance you will find customer service, only in use during Walla Walla Sweets games, here you can get Borleske Bulletins, Walla Walla Sweets newsletter, and any regular customer service needs. To the right of customer service you will find the general admission area known as section F, also you will find the Laht Neppur Outfield Pub, only during Sweets games. Continuing left of customer service, going down the path you will find, on your right, you will find the grill also known as The Sweets spot. On you left you will find the main concession stand dubbed Sluggers:Ballpark Favorites. Here you can find a wide range of ballpark favorites found Here. To the right of Sluggers you will find the Sweets Shoppe, where you can find all your Walla Walla Sweets gear. Going down the path, on the left you can see the marvelous Grandstands of Borleske Stadium. They are broken into 4 parts, seating sections A, B, C, and D they are broken up by a set of staircases. On the opposite side of the Grandstands and before the playing field you will see the box seats, only available during Sweets games, they are the closest to the action. Continuing down the main walkway you will see the visiting team's dugout. Then, up ahead, you will find the crown jewel of Borleske Stadium, the Diamond and Premier Sections of Borleske Stadium. Used during all games of Borleske Stadium, they are the only stadium style seating in the stadium. Then continuing down the main walkway, and to the right, you will find the other section of Bleachers. Section E is the last seating are in the park. It is made of a combination on plastic, wood, and metal. Finally, the last part of Borleske Stadium is the Budweiser Beer Garden. It is the only part of Borleske that is not to move that is not part of seating part of Borleske Stadium that is not seating related. Alcohol is only available during Sweets games. Also, absolutely no external food or drink is allowed past the gates of Borleske Stadium.\n\nSix field boxes were added right along the fence along the first base line. Each field box holds 10 seats and every two boxes are served by a stadium waiter. The first three boxes include protective netting - an indicator of just how close to the action these boxes are! All six come with drink/snack trays and daily, complimentary Sweets programs, stuffed with a Budweiser scorecard and the daily Sherwin Williams Borleske Bulletin.\n\nThe Diamond (AA & BB) and Premier (CC & DD) seating sections are located directly behind home plate. A total of 252 stadium-style seats were added, 14 of which are Physically Disabled Accessible along with 14 companion seats. The premier seats come with waiter service for your convenience, so you will never miss any of the action!\n\nThe Sweets Shoppe at Borleske Stadium is a fully functioning point of sale for all Sweets' merchandise, hats, clothing and apparel. It opens one hour before first pitch and closes during the 9th inning on a daily basis. The Sweets Shoppe is located on the main concourse directly across from the Concessions Stand.\n\nThe complete overhaul of the Borleske Stadium Concessions Stand included a new range and freezer/refrigeration system, a new three-section sink for proper cleaning, a new floor, new walls and three new points of sale to allow customers to move in and out of the concessions area quickly.\n\nLocated down the right field line, nestled up against the visiting bullpen is the Sweet Spot presented by Key Technology. The Sweet Spot serves as a party deck for group ticket holders over 20 that elect for an all-you-can-eat BBQ starting a half hour before gates open to the public and running up to first pitch. The Sweet Spot has a 100-person capacity and houses the Borleske Stadium covered grill.\n\nThe new and improved dugouts at Borleske Stadium are sunken into the ground and feature a double-deck seating area, artificial surface at ground level to walk on and view the game, a storage area for helmets and bats and a protective netting that runs the length of each dugout to keep foul balls from screaming into the sitting area without obstructing the view from within.\n\nMany adults at Borleske Stadium find their way down the left field line to the Budweiser Beer Garden. The Bud Barn serves Budweiser products and local micro brews along with several local wines. It is a popular spectating area, providing umbrella-covered tables and chairs and starting in 2011, pub tables and bar stools.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25441095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25441095", "title": "Brunei at the 2009 Southeast Asian Games", "text": "Brunei at the 2009 Southeast Asian Games\n\nBrunei participated in the 2009 Southeast Asian Games in the city of Vientiane, Laos from 9 December 2009 to 18 December 2009.\n"}
{"id": "21433498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21433498", "title": "Capannelle Racecourse", "text": "Capannelle Racecourse\n\nCapannelle Racecourse (Italian: Ippodromo delle Capannelle) is a horse racing venue in Rome, Italy. The course was constructed in 1881, and it was rebuilt in 1926 to a design by Paolo Vietti-Violi.\n\nIt is the venue of three Group 1 flat races – the Premio Presidente della Repubblica, the Premio Lydia Tesio and the Premio Roma. The track also stages the most valuable flat race in Italy, the Derby Italiano, which was downgraded to Group 2 status in 2009.\n\nGroup 2 races include the Premio Ribot. Group 3 races include the Premio Carlo Chiesa, Premio Carlo e Francesco Aloisi, Premio Carlo d'Alessio, and Premio Guido Berardelli.\n\nIt is also home ground of Italy's premier cricket club, Capannelle Roma.\n\n"}
{"id": "22792109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22792109", "title": "Central Stadium (Tbilisi)", "text": "Central Stadium (Tbilisi)\n\nCentral Stadium, was a multi-purpose stadium in Tbilisi, Georgia. Its official name between 1937 and 1953 was the Beria Dinamo Stadium which it was named in honor of Lavrentiy Beria. It was the home ground of the FC Dinamo Tbilisi until the current Boris Paichadze Stadium opened in 1976. The stadium held 35,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "1380584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1380584", "title": "Coasteering", "text": "Coasteering\n\nCoasteering is a physical activity that encompasses movement along the intertidal zone of a rocky coastline on foot or by swimming, without the aid of boats, surf boards or other craft. It is difficult to define the precise boundaries between, for example, rockpooling and ocean swimming. Coasteering may include all or some of the following:\n\nA defining factor of coasteering is the opportunity provided by the marine geology for moving in the “impact zone” where water, waves, rocks, gullies, caves etc., come together to provide a very high energy environment.\n\nAlthough all aspects of coasteering have been informally practised by people for a very long time, if only as a means of access to a cut-off cove beyond a headland, the term appears first to have been used in 1973. In the book \"Sea Cliff Climbing\", John Cleare and Robin Collomb said \"A few enthusiasts believe that coasteering will become popular and has a big future\".\n\nIn the 1990s, it emerged as a commercially guided recreational activity initially along the cliff coastline of Pembrokeshire in Wales. By 1997 write-ups started appearing in the travel/recreational pages of the newspapers showing that several commercial companies were offering such activity.\n\nIn 1999, one guide company licensed a trade mark incorporating the word \"Coasteering\" in a distinctive script. However, the word was by then in general use to describe the activity.\n\nThe activity then spread to all regions of the UK where there are suitable rocky coasts, including Cornwall, Pembrokeshire, Anglesey and the Highlands and Isles of Scotland.\n\nDorset was one of the last counties with a suitable coastline to offer coasteering, with commercial providers starting to offer the activity as late as 2009; However Dorset is now arguably the busiest coasteering destination in the UK with upwards of 10,000 paying clients every year.\n\nThe advisory organisation for coasteering is the National Coasteering Charter (NCC).\n\nIn the UK the activity is recognized by the Adventure Activities Licensing Authority which is a department of the Health and Safety Executive.\n\nThe rocky cliff coasts of western Britain provide the world's principal location for organised guided coasteering, where it is available from over 100 activity centres. Usually half day or one day trips are offered at a variety of levels catering for beginners, intermediates and advanced. Some trips are especially slanted towards study of the coastal ecology.\n\nSome centres cater for parties of school children.\n\nCoasteering may be included as one of the disciplines for a stage of an adventure race. This is especially common in New Zealand, but is also to be found in Australia, Canada, and the USA.\n\nIn the UK, the HSE has an information sheet of good practice for the Adventure Activities Industry .\n\nSafety equipment reflects the environment in which the sport is performed and often includes:\n\nBecause of the diverse practices involved in the sport there are a number of hazards.\n\n"}
{"id": "25502652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25502652", "title": "Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement", "text": "Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement\n\nThe Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) is a free-trade agreement between Canada, the European Union and its member states. It has been provisionally applied, so the treaty has eliminated 98% of the tariffs between Canada and the EU.\n\nThe negotiations were concluded in August 2014. All 28 European Union member states approved the final text of CETA for signature, with Belgium being the final country to give its approval. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada, travelled to Brussels on 30 October 2016 to sign on behalf of Canada. The European Parliament approved the deal on 15 February 2017. The agreement is subject to ratification by the EU and national legislatures and can only enter into force if no adverse opinion is given by the European Court of Justice following a request for an opinion by Belgium. Until its formal entry into force, substantial parts are provisionally applied from 21 September 2017.\n\nThe European Commission indicates the treaty will lead to savings of just over half a billion euros in taxes for EU exporters every year, mutual recognition in regulated professions such as architects, accountants and engineers, and easier transfers of company staff and other professionals between the EU and Canada. The European Commission claims CETA will create a more level playing field between Canada and the EU on intellectual property rights.\n\nProponents of CETA emphasize that the agreement will boost trade between the EU and Canada and thus create new jobs, facilitate business operations by abolishing customs duties, goods checks, and various other levies, facilitate mutual recognition of diplomas and regulate investment disputes by creating a new system of courts. Opponents consider that CETA would weaken European consumer rights, including high EU standards concerning food safety, and criticize it as a boon only for big business and multinational corporations, while risking net-losses, unemployment, and environmental damage impacting individual citizens. The deal also includes a controversial investor-state dispute settlement mechanism which makes critics fear that multinational corporations could sue national governments for billions of dollars if they thought that the government policies had a bad impact on their business. A poll conducted by Angus Reid Institute in February 2017 concluded that 55 percent of Canadians support CETA, while only 10 percent oppose it. The support, however, has waned when compared to the poll conducted in 2014. In contrast, the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has a 44 percent support rate among Canadians in February 2017. In contrast to Canada, the agreement has prompted protests in a number of European countries.\n\nCETA is Canada's biggest bilateral initiative since NAFTA. It was started as a result of a joint study \"Assessing the Costs and Benefits of a Closer EU-Canada Economic Partnership\", which was released in October 2008. Officials announced the launch of negotiations on 6 May 2009 at the Canada-EU Summit in Prague. This, after the Canada-EU Summit in Ottawa on 18 March 2004 where leaders agreed to a framework for a new Canada-EU Trade and Investment Enhancement Agreement (TIEA). The TIEA was intended to move beyond traditional market access issues, to include areas such as trade and investment facilitation, competition, mutual recognition of professional qualifications, financial services, e-commerce, temporary entry, small- and medium-sized enterprises, sustainable development, and sharing science and technology.\nThe TIEA was also to build on a Canada-EU regulatory co-operation framework for promoting bilateral co-operation on approaches to regulatory governance, advancing good regulatory practices and facilitating trade and investment. In addition to lowering barriers, the TIEA was meant to heighten Canadian and European interest in each other's markets. The TIEA continued until 2006 when Canada and the EU decided to pause negotiations. This led to negotiations on a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), and this agreement will go beyond the TIEA toward an agreement with a much broader and more ambitious scope.\nAn agreement in principle was signed by Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and European Commission President José Manuel Barroso on 18 October 2013. The negotiations were concluded on 1 August 2014.\nThe trade agreement was officially presented on 25 September 2014 by Harper and Barroso during an EU - Canada Summit at the Royal York Hotel in downtown Toronto. The Canada Europe Roundtable for Business has served as the parallel business process from the launch to the conclusion of the CETA negotiations.\n\nAfter it had been leaked by German public television on 14 August, the 1634 pages long Consolidated CETA text was published on the EU's official website on 26 September 2014.\n\nCompletion, translation of the final text into 24 EU languages, and ratification is expected to take years since the passage of the deal approval of the European Parliament and the European Council as well as Canada and the individual 28 EU member states as well.\n\nThe EU-Canada Trade Sustainability Impact Assessment (SIA), a three-part study commissioned by the European Commission to independent experts and completed in September 2011, provides a comprehensive prediction on the impacts of CETA. It predicts a number of macro-economic and sector-specific impacts, suggesting the EU may see increases in real GDP of 0.02–0.03% in the long-term from CETA, whereas Canada may see increases of 0.18–0.36%; the Investment section of the report suggests these numbers could be higher when factoring in investment increases. At the sectoral level, the study predicts the greatest gains in output and trade to be stimulated by services liberalization and by the removal of tariffs applied on sensitive agricultural products; it also suggests CETA could have a positive social impact if it includes provisions on the ILO's Core Labour Standards and Decent Work Agenda. The study details a variety of impacts in various \"cross-cutting\" components of CETA: it advocates against controversial NAFTA-style ISDS provisions; predicts potentially imbalanced benefits from a government procurement (GP) chapter; assumes CETA will lead to an upward harmonization in IPR regulations, particularly changing Canadian IPR laws; and predicts impacts in terms of competition policy and several other areas.\n\nCanada and the EU have a long history of economic co-operation. Comprising 28 Member States with a total population of over 500 million and a GDP of €13.0 trillion in 2012, the European Union (EU) is the world's largest single market, foreign investor and trader. As an integrated bloc, the EU represents Canada's second largest trading partner in goods and services. In 2008, Canadian goods and services exports to the EU totalled C$52.2 billion, an increase of 3.9% from 2007, and imports from the EU amounted to $62.4 billion.\n\nAccording to Statistics Canada, the EU is also the second largest source of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Canada, with the stock of FDI amounting to $133.1 billion at the end of 2008. In 2008, the stock of Canada's direct investment in the EU totalled $136.6 billion, and the EU is the destination of 21.4% of Canadian direct investment abroad. According to Eurostat, the EU identified Canada as its third largest destination and its fourth largest source of FDI in 2007.\n\nMany of its provisions on copyright were initially thought to be identical to the controversial ACTA, which was rejected by the European Parliament in 2012. The European Commission has indicated that this is not the case.\n\nPart of the Agreement is stricter enforcement of intellectual property, including liability for Internet Service Providers, a ban on technologies that can be used to circumvent copyright. After failure of ACTA the copyright language in CETA was substantially watered down. The following provisions remain:\n\nOn 22 October 2012, five Polish NGOs criticized the secrecy surrounding the negotiations, the similarities to ACTA, and demanded more disclosures about the negotiations from the Polish government.\n\nIn the Consolidated CETA Text a long section on \"Intellectual Property Rights\", IPR, (pp. 339–375) deals comprehensively with copyrights, trademarks, patents, designs, trade secrets and licensing. Here reference is made to the TRIPS agreement (p. 339 f). \nIn addition to the interests of the pharmaceutical and software industries CETA encourages to prosecute \"Camcording\" (the so-called \"film piracy\", Art. 5.6, p. 343). Especially the negotiations on food exports lasted very long. The interests connected with European cheese exports and Canadian beef exports led to a protection of these kinds of intellectual properties and long lists of \"Geographical Indications Identifying a Product Originating in the European Union\" (pp. 363–347).\n\nCETA does not alter EU non-tariff barriers such as European regulations on beef, which include a ban on the use of growth hormones. Canadian stakeholders have criticized the EU's delays in the approval process for genetically modified organisms (GMOs), and GMO traceability and labelling requirements, none of which are addressed in CETA.\n\nBoth the EU and Canada will retain the right to regulate freely in areas of public interest such as environmental protection, or people's health and safety.\n\nThe provincial government of Newfoundland and Labrador has argued that the Federal government of Canada in Ottawa reneged on a deal to pay $280 million in exchange for its relinquishment of minimum processing requirements as part of CETA. Those rules helped protect jobs in fish plants, especially in rural areas hit hard by the cod moratorium, which was instituted in 1992. The exclusive economic zone of Canada, which was the subject of the 1992 Canada–France Maritime Boundary Case dispute, will no longer be in force where fishing boats from Europe are concerned. Overly permissive Spanish fishing practices, as evinced by the Turbot War, have been reduced, and the European practice of Factortame Ltd will be pursued.\n\nThe Czech Republic, Romania and Bulgaria had declared they would not endorse the agreement, in effect scuppering the entire agreement, until the visa requirements for their citizens entering Canada were lifted. All other EU countries already had visa free travel to Canada. Visas requirements were lifted for the Czech Republic on November 14, 2013. Canada has given a written undertaking to cancel visa requirements for Bulgarian and Romanian nationals visiting Canada for business and tourism, within a timeframe no later than the end of 2017. Canada lifted visa requirements for Bulgarian and Romanian citizens on 1 December 2017.\n\nSection 4 of the CETA agreement (pages 158–161) provides Investment Protection to foreign investors, and guarantees a \"fair and equitable treatment and full protection and security\".\n\nCETA allows foreign corporations to sue states before arbitral tribunals if they claim to have suffered losses because a state had violated its Non Discriminatory Treatment obligations (CETA, section 3, p 156 f) or because of a violation of the guaranteed investment protection.\n\nThis license exists only in one direction—states cannot sue companies in these investor-state arbitrations. Such investors complaints are nothing new under public international law (UNCTAD listed 514 such cases at the end of 2012, most from the United States, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Germany) but for transatlantic trade and investment, this comprehensive level of parallel justice is new.\n\nAfter much criticism of the hitherto often confidential arbitral proceedings, CETA now provides for a certain amount of transparency by declaring the UNCITRAL Rules on Transparency in Treaty-based Investor-State Arbitration applicable to all proceedings (article X.33: Transparency of proceedings, p. 174).\n\nWhile there is no appeal mechanism against arbitration awards comparable to scrutiny of court judgments, awards made under CETA are subject to ICSID (International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes) annulment proceedings if the claim is brought under the ICSID Rules, or setting-aside proceedings if the claim is brought under the UNCITRAL Rules or any other rules the parties have agreed on. Only after time limits set for these review mechanisms have lapsed, is the tribunal's final award to \"be binding between the disputing parties and in respect of that particular case\". (article X.39: Enforcement of awards, p. 177)\n\nOn 26 March 2014, German Economics Minister Sigmar Gabriel wrote an open letter to EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht, stating that investment protection was central sensitive point, which could in the end decide whether a transatlantic free trade agreement would meet with German approval. He further stated that investment arbitration was unnecessary between countries with well-developed legal systems.\n\nThe CETA \"Investor-State Dispute Settlement\" (ISDS) provisions could create a precedent for similar arrangements within TTIP. Furthermore, critics allege that CETA would allow US companies to sue EU states through Canadian subsidiaries.\n\nIn 2016, the EU Commission announced that it had agreed with the Canadian government to replace \"ad hoc\" arbitral tribunals in CETA with a permanent dispute settlement tribunal. The tribunal will consist of 15 members named by Canada and the EU, dealing with individual cases in panels of three. An appeals mechanism will be established to ensure \"legal correctness\" of awards. The tribunal's members may not appear as experts or party counsel in other investment cases.\n\nIt was initially unclear whether or not the EU member states had to ratify the agreement, as the European Commission considered the treaty to be solely in the competence of the EU. However, in July 2016 it was decided that CETA be qualified as a \"mixed agreement\" and thus be ratified through national procedures as well.\n\nShortly before the scheduled signature of CETA on 27 October 2016, Belgium announced it was unable to sign the treaty, as assent is required by all regional governments. The federal government and Flanders, which are governed by the centre-right Michel and Bourgeois governments respectively, are in favour, whereas the French Community, Wallonia and Brussels, which are led by centre-left parties that are in opposition at federal level, rejected signature in its current form. On 27 April 2016, the Walloon Parliament had already adopted a resolution in opposition to CETA. On 13 October 2016, David Lametti defended CETA before a Walloon Parliament committee. However, the next day the Walloon Parliament affirmed its opposition. Walloon Minister-President Paul Magnette led the intra-Belgian opposition shortly before the planned signature.\n\nThe intra-Belgian disagreement was solved in the final days of October, paving the way for CETA's signature. On 28 October, the Belgian regional parliaments allowed Full Powers to be given to the federal government, and the following day Minister of Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders gave his signature on behalf of Belgium. The next day, on Sunday 30 October 2016, the treaty was signed by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, President of the European Council Donald Tusk, President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker and Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico (as Slovakia held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2016).\n\nFollowing the signature, the consent by the European Parliament and the ratification by Canada, CETA applies provisionally since 21 September 2017, awaiting its ratification by the European Union member states.\n\n\nEleven states have deposited their instruments of ratification: Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and the UK.\n\nIn September 2017, Belgium requested the opinion of the European Court of Justice on whether the dispute resolution system of CETA is compatible with EU law. The agreement cannot come into force until the ECJ has given its opinion nor if the ECJ opinion is that CETA is incompatible with EU law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10041323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10041323", "title": "Deportivo Humaitá", "text": "Deportivo Humaitá\n\nDeportivo Humaitá is a Paraguayan football (soccer) club from the city of Mariano Roque Alonso, in the Gran Asunción area. The club was founded in 1932.\n\nThe club took its name from the historic Paraguayan city of Humaitá.\n\nIt is the third oldest team from Mariano Roque Alonso and won 12 titles from the regional league of that city, before joining the Liga Paraguaya de Futbol and participating in the lower divisions with other metropolitan area teams. Its biggest achievement was promotion to the Paraguayan first division in 1993. It competed in the for three years before being relegated to the .\n\nHumaitá currently plays in the \"Primera División Chilo\" which is equivalent to the fourth division.\n\n\nRunner-up (1): 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "4593116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4593116", "title": "Estadio Elías Aguirre", "text": "Estadio Elías Aguirre\n\nEstadio Capitán Remigio Elías Aguirre Romero is a multi-purpose stadium administrated by the governmental \"Instituto Peruano del Deporte\" in Chiclayo, Peru. It was built in 1970 named after the 19th century Peruvian sailor Elías Aguirre Romero. Its current spectator capacity is 23,000 (can be limited to 20,000 for safety reasons) after the renovations performed for the 2004 Copa América, and had artificial turf installed for the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Championship. The most recognized club to play at this stadium is Juan Aurich.\n\nEstadio Capitán Remigio Elías Aguirre Romero was built in 1970 and renovated in 2004 for the Copa América Peru was to host. The stadium hosted 5 matches for this tournament in which the national football teams of Peru, Argentina, Mexico, Uruguay, and Ecuador participated. The game that opened the Elías Aguirre's participation in this tournament was a group stage 2–2 draw between Mexico and Uruguay, and the game that closed its participation was a 1–0 Argentina win over hosts Peru in the quarterfinals. The stadium received a minor renovation for the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Championship. The renovations consisted of installing Polytan Ligaturf which received the FIFA 1 star recommended rating. During this championship, the Elías Aguirre hosted 6 matches; 5 group stage matches and 1 semifinal match.\n\nThe stadium is administrated by the regional government of Lambayeque and principally used by local teams of Chiclayo which participate in the Copa Perú. Additionally, football club Juan Aurich gained promotion to the Primera División in 2007 after conquering the 2007 Copa Perú. They play in the Primera División since 2008 and qualified to the 2010 Copa Libertadores in which the stadium hosted international matches against the Argentinian defending champions Estudiantes de La Plata and Bolivian Bolívar, Mexican Estudiantes Tecos in addition to local Alianza Lima.\n\nIn addition to football events, the stadium can host track and field events and is located within a sports complex.\n"}
{"id": "54625557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54625557", "title": "Fiji women's national under-20 football team", "text": "Fiji women's national under-20 football team\n\nThe Fiji women's national under-17 football team is the second highest women's youth team of women's football in Fiji and is controlled by the Fiji Football Association.\n\nTonga's greatest football triumph to date was their triumph in the first ever Polynesian Cup held in 1993 over Samoa and the Cook Islands. Although local players have not yet made their mark on big leagues abroad, the Chief Executive of the Tonga Football Association, Joe Topou, was appointed to the FIFA Executive Committee in 2002. The Tonga association is the only sports organization on the island that employs full-time administrative staff.\n\nTonga's second Goal project will develop and improve the national football academy and the associations headquarters in Atele, Tongatapu, which was built in the country's first Goal project. This development work will ensure that all of the Tonga Football Associations needs are fully satisfied. Local matches will be held at the football academy, while the administration's requirements, including the needs of players, officials and spectators, will also be covered. The football school will be transformed into a House of Football.\nThe following players were called up for the 2017 OFC U-19 Women's Championship\n\n\"Caps and goals correct after match against New Caledonia on July 24, 2017.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11563899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11563899", "title": "Forecheck", "text": "Forecheck\n\nThe forecheck is an ice hockey defensive play made in the offensive zone with the objective of applying pressure to the opposing team to regain control of the puck. Forechecking is generally executed in one of three situations: recovery of the puck after a dump in, after the rebound on a scoring attempt, or immediately after a turnover to regain possession. Forechecking can be aggressive or conservative depending on the coaching style and on the skating skills of the players. Aggressive forechecking strategies are more suited for players with good skating mobility, while more conservative plays such as the neutral zone trap are better suited for players with less agility.\n\n"}
{"id": "4391539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4391539", "title": "France at the 2006 Winter Paralympics", "text": "France at the 2006 Winter Paralympics\n\nFrance participated in the ninth Winter Paralympics in Turin, Italy. \n\nFrance entered 19 athletes in the following sports:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19478522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19478522", "title": "Franjo Bučar State Award for Sport", "text": "Franjo Bučar State Award for Sport\n\nFranjo Bučar State Award for Sport () is the highest recognition that Republic of Croatia gives for extraordinary achievements and contributions of remarkable meaning for the development of sport in Croatia.\n\nThis award has been given since 1991. It came as successor of awards of SR Croatia: \"Majska nagrada fizičke kulture\" and \"Republička nagrada fizičke kulture\".\n\nThis award is given to professional and public workers in the area of sport, sportsmen, legal and physical entities the perform sports activity, as well as other entities whose work is meritorious for the development of sport.\n\nIt is named after Croatian writer and sports activist Franjo Bučar, person that popularized sport in Croatia in many ways.\n"}
{"id": "5568077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5568077", "title": "General physical preparedness", "text": "General physical preparedness\n\nGeneral Physical Preparation, also known as GPP, lays the groundwork for later Specific Physical Preparation, or SPP. In the GPP phase, athletes work on general conditioning to improve strength, speed, endurance, flexibility, structure and skill. GPP is generally performed in the off-season, with a lower level of GPP-maintenance during the season, when SPP is being pursued. GPP helps prevent imbalances and boredom with both specific and non-specific exercises by conditioning the body to work.\n\nGPP is the initial stage of training. It starts every cycle of training from the macro-, meso- and microcycle after restoration and recovery. It consists primarily of general preparatory and some specialized conditioning exercises to work all the major muscles and joints. This preparation prepares the athlete for the more intense training such as explosive plyometrics. This period is also used for rehabilitation of injured muscles and joints, strengthening or bringing up to par the lagging muscles and improvement of technique. \n\nFor the high-level and elite athlete, GPP is used more for recovery and warm up rather than for developmental purposes. This is based on the premise that high level and elite athletes maintain their physical conditioning throughout the year and train throughout the year on a specific periodization scheme. This is a major distinguishing characteristic of the high-level athlete.\n"}
{"id": "11820371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11820371", "title": "Gordon McKellen", "text": "Gordon McKellen\n\nGordon Riley \"Gordie\" McKellen Jr. (born August 26, 1953) is an American former competitive figure skater. He is the 1973–75 U.S. national champion and placed tenth at the 1972 Winter Olympics.\n\nMcKellen is now providing \"Virtual\" coaching assistance to figure skating coaches with respect to teaching technical elements of figure skating through his website at .\n\nMcKellen was born on August 26, 1953, in Reading, Pennsylvania. His parents, Leila and Gordon \"Tuffy\" Sr., owned an ice rink, and his father was a member of the 1940s ice skating duo, the McKellen Brothers. In 1977, McKellen married American figure skater Kath Malmberg, who gave birth to their two children in the 1980s.\n\nMcKellen won three consecutive U.S. national titles. He was selected to represent the United States at the 1972 Winter Olympics and finished tenth. His highest placement at the World Championships was 5th, in 1975.\n\nAlthough other skaters had practiced triple axels before then, McKellen was the first skater to attempt them in public performances. He landed several in exhibition in 1974–1975, as King of the Lake Placid Winter Festival exhibition and during the exhibitions following his third National championship win in Providence. The triple axel was not landed in competition until Vern Taylor did it in 1978.\n\nMcKellen retired from competitive skating after the 1975 season after his coach, Slavka Kohout, left her position at the Wagon Wheel rink in Rockton, Illinois, where McKellen had been training. He toured with Toller Cranston's \"The Ice Show\" company after turning professional.\n\nMcKellen was inducted into the United States Figure Skating Hall of Fame in 1998. In July 2001, he was banned for life from U.S. Figure Skating because of allegations of inappropriate behavior and actions with underage female skaters.\n\n"}
{"id": "10704616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10704616", "title": "Habib Bank Limited cricket team", "text": "Habib Bank Limited cricket team\n\nThe Habib Bank Limited cricket team are a first-class cricket side, sponsored by the Habib Bank Limited, who have competed in Pakistan domestic cricket since the 1975-76 season.\n\nAs of mid-January 2014 they had played 378 first-class matches, with 166 wins, 70 losses, 141 draws and 1 tie. They had also played 257 List A matches, with 181 wins, 73 losses and 3 no-results, and 10 Twenty20 matches, with 4 wins, 5 losses and 1 tie.\n\n Patron's Trophy (9) \nPentangular Trophy (5) \nQuaid-e-Azam Trophy (2)\n National One Day Championship (5) \n\n"}
{"id": "50798707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50798707", "title": "Hong Kong at the 1992 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Hong Kong at the 1992 Summer Paralympics\n\nHong Kong competed at the 1992 Summer Paralympics in Barcelona, Spain. 21 competitors from Hong Kong won 11 medals, 3 gold, 4 silver and 4 bronze and finished 28th in the medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "52893564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52893564", "title": "I, Tonya", "text": "I, Tonya\n\nI, Tonya is a 2017 American biographical film directed by Craig Gillespie and written by Steven Rogers. It follows the life of figure skater Tonya Harding and her connection to the 1994 attack on her rival Nancy Kerrigan. The film states that it is based on \"contradictory\" and \"true\" interviews with Tonya Harding and her ex-husband Jeff Gillooly, suggesting they are unreliable narrators. It features darkly comedic interviews with the characters in mockumentary-style, set in the modern day, and breaks the fourth wall. Margot Robbie (who also produced) stars as Harding, Sebastian Stan plays Harding's husband Jeff Gillooly, and Allison Janney plays Harding's mother LaVona Golden; Julianne Nicholson, Caitlin Carver, Paul Walter Hauser, and Bobby Cannavale also star.\n\n\"I, Tonya\" premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 8, 2017, and was theatrically released in the United States on December 8, 2017, and grossed $53 million worldwide on an $11 million budget. The film received critical acclaim, with major praise drawn towards the performances of Robbie and Janney.\n\nAt the 90th Academy Awards, Janney won for Best Supporting Actress, while the film also earned nominations for Best Actress for Robbie and Best Editing. It earned three nominations at the 75th Golden Globe Awards, winning Best Supporting Actress for Janney, and at the 24th Screen Actors Guild Awards, it won Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role for Janney and was nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role (Robbie). At the 71st British Academy Film Awards, the film earned five nominations, winning Best Actress in a Supporting Role for Janney.\n\nIn 1970s Portland, Oregon, four year-old Tonya Harding is forced to ice skate by her abusive mother, LaVona Golden. As Tonya grows up, her parents take her out of school to focus on her skating career, and she trains under coach Diane Rawlinson. Tonya rapidly becomes one of the best figure skaters in the United States, but is held back by her \"white trash\" reputation, home-made costumes and unconventional choice of performance music. At 15, she begins dating 18-year-old Jeff Gillooly, and the two marry, but Jeff becomes abusive. When LaVona scorns Tonya for putting up with it, Tonya blames LaVona for her raising her badly.\n\nAfter a dispute with Diane, Tonya fires her and hires Dody Teachman as her coach. Tonya becomes the first female figure skater to complete two triple Axel jumps in competition. At the 1992 Winter Olympics, Tonya fails to stick her landings and finishes fourth. Defeated, she moves in again with Jeff and takes a job as a waitress, but Diane convinces her to train for the 1994 Winter Olympics. On the day of her November 1993 competition at the Northwest Pacific Regional Championships in Portland, Tonya receives a death threat and chooses not to compete. In retaliation, Jeff instructs his friend Shawn Eckardt (who says he's Tonya's \"bodyguard\") to send death threats to Tonya's rival Nancy Kerrigan. Tonya makes a phone call trying to locate Nancy Kerrigan's training arena and her practice times. Eckardt hires two inept crooks to attack Kerrigan after a practice session in Detroit. On January 6, 1994, Eckardt’s henchmen strike Kerrigan's knee; she cannot compete at the next day's National competition. The hired henchmen are arrested.\n\nEckardt's bragging quickly leads the FBI to him. He points the finger at Jeff, who is horrified to learn that Eckardt gave orders beyond sending the letters. Tonya qualifies for the Olympic team and is in turn horrified by Jeff, realizing that she will be found guilty by association. She goes to the FBI and tells them what Jeff and Eckardt did, but they show her interview transcript to Jeff after his arrest, and he races home to confront her. She briefly speaks to Jeff, then climbs out the window, leaving him for good. Jeff implicates Tonya, saying she knew about the attack.\n\nLaVona visits Tonya and offers her kind words; however, when LaVona asks if Tonya knew anything about the crime, Tonya reaches into LaVona's jacket pocket, finds a tape recorder, and throws her mother out of her home. Jeff, Eckardt, and the henchmen are charged, with Tonya's hearing postponed until after the Olympics. Tonya finishes eighth and Nancy Kerrigan wins the silver medal. Tonya avoids jail but is banned from competitive figure skating for life. Heartbroken, she begs the judge to give her jail time but not to take away the one thing she knows how to do; the judge refuses and tells her his decision is made. Jeff acknowledges with honest regret that he ruined Tonya's career. He changes his name, remarries, opens a hair salon, divorces; he currently lives near Tonya, albeit having no contact with her, with his third wife and two children. LaVona moves to Washington state and has no contact with Tonya. Tonya remarries, divorces, takes up professional boxing, becomes a landscaper, house painter and deck builder. She lives happily with her seven-year-old son and third husband.\n\nScreenwriter Steven Rogers was inspired to write the film after watching a documentary about ice skating which mentioned Tonya Harding. Rogers arranged separate interviews with Harding and her ex-husband Jeff Gillooly. Both remembered the events of the 1994 scandal very differently. Rogers decided, \"Well, that's my way in - to put everyone's point of view out there, and then let the audience decide.\" He later said that the film was really about \"things we tell ourselves in order to…live with ourselves…how we change the narrative, and then want that to be the narrative.\"\n\nRegarding Gillooly, Rogers stated \"What's curious about Jeff is that he refused to take any money for life rights, for his interview, for anything.\" He remembered Jeff Gillooly saying that Harding was a great figure skater. According to Rogers, Gillooly also said that it was his own idea to threaten Nancy Kerrigan's ability to perform and took responsibility for his part in Harding's 1994 ruin: \"he doesn't want to profit from it.\"\n\nMargot Robbie, who played Harding and co-produced the film, did not realize the screenplay was based on a real event until after she finished reading it. Immediately prior to filming, Robbie flew from Los Angeles to Portland, Oregon to meet Harding. To prepare for the skating scenes, Robbie trained for four months. Heidi Munger and Anna Malkova served as skating doubles and Sarah Kawahara provided coaching and choreography.\n\nRogers wrote the role of Tonya's mother LaVona for Allison Janney; she was a longtime friend of Rogers, but the \"stars had [not] aligned\" for them to work together until he completed the script for \"I, Tonya\". Janney said the part was one of the most challenging of her career. Shortly after the film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival, she said \"I think LaVona was actually a very smart woman, very articulate….She was not messing around and didn't want [Tonya] distracted….She wanted [Tonya] to know that it was going to be hard work, and knowing her daughter needed to be told she couldn't do it in order to do it was LaVona's way of saying, 'I was there to inspire her'.\"\n\nDirector Craig Gillespie was interested in the project because \"I realized it was a great opportunity to revisit the story and make a commentary about how the media treats people.\" He did add that \"I don't feel great about having to drag Nancy's name back into this\". Gillespie said that he tried, in the film, to present Harding \"in a very honest way\" without \"trying to pull those heartstrings…just showing you why she is the way she is.\"\n\nPrincipal photography began in late January 2017 in Macon, Georgia, where Macon Coliseum was used as a set. Throughout the shoot, Robbie suffered from a herniated disc in her neck and had routine MRIs to ensure it was safe for her to continue filming skating scenes. Filming wrapped in late February of that year, with pickups in Atlanta on May 16.\n\nSome of the songs of the soundtrack were used in Harding's real routines, such as ZZ Top's \"Sleeping Bag\". Others were selected by music supervisor Susan Jacobs: tracks from 1970s such as Fleetwood Mac's \"The Chain\" or Supertramp's \"Goodbye Stranger\" came from an era when music was \"powerful and full\" and \"warm.\" Jacobs felt the \"classic rock songs filled the picture without getting in the way of the story.\" Critic Emily Manning found that others, such as En Vogue's \"Free Your Mind\" and Heart's \"Barracuda\", created \"an interesting parallel between Tonya's tenacity and ambition.\" The film ends with Siouxsie and the Banshees' cover of \"The Passenger\"; Manning wrote: \"There was something really right about seeing Tonya skate to Siouxsie.\" Jacobs said that \"The Passenger\" was \"something obviously female and the lyrics [resonated]\". The lyrics of Dire Straits' \"Romeo and Juliet\" were also important as \"they felt like the story\".\n\nA soundtrack was released on December 8, 2017, by Milan Records, featuring songs used in the film by various artists and tracks from the original score.\n\n original score track\n\n\"I, Tonya\" premiered at the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival on September 8, 2017. Shortly after, Neon and 30West acquired domestic distribution rights to the film. It was theatrically released on December 8, 2017.\n\nIn January 2018, Dan Shaughnessy, columnist for \"The Boston Globe\", asked Nancy Kerrigan in a telephone interview if she had seen the film – she had not. When Shaughnessy posited that Kerrigan was once \"a victim of Harding's dysfunctional life\", she agreed but emphasized that she was occupied with living her own life. Shaughnessy also asked Kerrigan to comment on whether she was \"bothered by Hollywood's portrayal of Tonya\"; she replied that the issue was no longer her business. Nancy Kerrigan said that her only \"role\" in the 1994 scandal was recovering from an attack, \"That's it\", she finished. She went on, during the interview, to speak about how she remembered the scandal as \"A bizarre thing. The whole thing was crazy, being that it's a story. I mean, come on.\"\n\nThe film was released on DVD and Blu-Ray on March 13, 2018.\n\n\"I, Tonya\" has grossed $30 million in the United States and Canada, and $23.9 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $53.9 million.\n\nAfter making $11.6 million over a month in limited release, the film made $2.9 million from 799 theaters in its wide weekend. After the film earned its three Oscar nominations, it was added to 161 theaters the following week and made $3 million.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, \"I, Tonya\" holds an approval rating of 89% based on 338 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"Led by strong work from Margot Robbie and Alison Janney, \"I, Tonya\" finds the humor in its real-life story without losing sight of its more tragic — and emotionally resonant — elements.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 77 out of 100, based on 47 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nChristy Lemire of \"RogerEbert.com\" described it as \"an irresistible, soapy mix of jealousy, competition and class warfare, fortified by powerful performances and unexpected emotional resonance.\" Lemire also complimented Gillespie for \"what would seem to be an impossible high-wire act: He's made a movie that's affectionately mocking—of this theatrical sport, of the idiots who surrounded Harding, of this hideous moment in fashion and pop culture—without actually mocking Harding herself.\" In \"Rolling Stone,\" Peter Travers wrote that the film holds \"a mirror up to the class-conscious America most of us tend to ignore or dismiss – and makes us see ourselves reflected in it, too. \"I, Tonya\" is funny as hell, but the pain is just as real. You'll laugh till it hurts.\" \"Vulture\" praised Robbie's performance, feeling she had found a new \"weight\".\n\nTy Burr of \"The Boston Globe\" wrote that it was one of the most surprising films of the year - a \"multi-layered saga of talent and class resentment\". He praised Rogers' script as \"sympathetic but clear-eyed, foul-mouthed but fair-minded\". Burr wrote that the domestic abuse scenes are presented effectively because of the film's style of \"ironic as-told-to comedy that intentionally curdles when the extent of [violence]...and Harding's grim acceptance...of it become obvious\". However, when writing of the scene where Harding voices how she has internalized a victim-like identity, Burr believed the filmmakers failed to appreciate the scope of what that really means to her. He considered whether the filmmakers had an obligation not to be among \"the many vultures picking at [Tonya's] pop-culture corpse\". Burr did not think the filmmakers properly addressed the predicament of making a film about Harding's media over-exposure.\n\nRichard Brody of \"The New Yorker\" felt the film failed to find an original depiction of the working class, and \"treats Tonya's background, her tastes, her habits, her way of talking, as a joke... The result is a film that's as derisive and dismissive toward Tonya Harding as it shows the world at large to have been\". In \"The Guardian\", Jean Hannah Eldestein felt that the film was \"played for laughs\" at the expense of its subject.\n\nAllison Janney was widely lauded for her performance as LaVona Golden, singled out for praise by critics. Christy Lemire of \"Roger Ebert.com\" said: \"Janney absolutely tears it up as the profane, chain-smoking LaVona Harding, constantly insulting Tonya and messing with her mind in the name of making her a champion. It's a showy, scenery-chewing performance but it's not one-note; Janney brings an undercurrent of sorrow to the part in revealing LaVona's twisted methodology.\" Michael O'Sullivan of \"The Washington Post\" wrote that : “Janney steals every scene she's in, playing LaVona, a harridan whose nodding goes beyond tough love.” Helen O'Hara from \"Empire\" called Janney's performance flawless and flamboyant, and an unforgettable one. \"USA Today\" said; “Janney is magnificent as Tonya Harding's villainous and abusive mommy dearest. No curse word goes unused and no scenery is left unchewed by the actress, who takes over whenever she's onscreen, whether dealing with a pesky parakeet or breaking the fourth wall.”\n\n\"I, Tonya\" earned various awards and nominations following its release. At the 7th AACTA International Awards, Robbie won Best Actress, while Janney won Best Supporting Actress. \"I, Tonya\" received five nominations at the 71st British Academy Film Awards, including Best Actress in a Leading Role for Robbie, Best Original Screenplay for Rogers and winning Best Actress in a Supporting Role for Janney. The film also garnered five Critics' Choice Movie Awards, with Robbie winning Best Actress in a Comedy and Janney winning Best Supporting Actress. At the 75th Golden Globe Awards, Janney received the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress – Motion Picture, while the film was nominated for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy and Robbie was nominated for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy \"I, Tonya\" gathered three Independent Spirit Awards nominations, and a Producers Guild of America Award nomination. Robbie and Janney were nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role and Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role respectively at the 24th Screen Actors Guild Awards. Rogers earned a nomination for Best Original Screenplay from the Writers Guild of America. Tatiana S. Riegel won the American Cinema Editors Award for Best Edited Film (Comedy or Musical).\n\nAt the 90th Academy Awards, Janney won Best Supporting Actress. Robbie earned a nomination for Best Actress and Tatiana S. Riegel earned a nomination for Best Film Editing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7863593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7863593", "title": "Ivory Coast at the 1968 Summer Olympics", "text": "Ivory Coast at the 1968 Summer Olympics\n\nIvory Coast competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico under the IOC country code CML due to the Ivory Coast in Spanish being Costa de Marfil.\n\nMen's 100 metres\n\nMen's 400 metres\n\nMen's 100 metres hurdles\n\nMen's 4x100 metres relay\n\nMen's discus throw\n\nMen's K-1 1000 metres\n\nMen's K-2 1000 metres\n"}
{"id": "27861243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27861243", "title": "Izabal JC", "text": "Izabal JC\n\nIzabal Juventud Católica, also known as \"Juca de Izabal\", is a Guatemalan football club based in Puerto Barrios, Izabal Department. \n\nNicknamed \"Los Tiburones\" (the Sharks), they play their home games in the Estadio Roy Fearon.\n\nIzabal were founded in 1951. Most recently they have again been playing in the Primera División Group \"A\" or \"B\", but got relegated after the 2009/2010 season.\n"}
{"id": "5488512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5488512", "title": "James Goldstein", "text": "James Goldstein\n\nJames F. Goldstein (born January 5, 1940) is an American millionaire \"NBA superfan\", who attends over one hundred NBA games each season typically in courtside seats, including approximately 95 percent of home games for the Los Angeles Lakers and the Los Angeles Clippers.\n\nHe also travels from city to city to catch games, especially during the NBA playoffs (and not necessarily Lakers and Clippers playoff games). He also frequently attends post-game press conferences. His unique and flamboyant clothing makes him fairly easy to spot on television. His passion for the NBA has been featured in \"USA Today\", the \"Detroit Free Press\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"Boston Globe\", and \"ESPN the Magazine\".\n\n\"He has so much invested in our sport,\" Former NBA commissioner David Stern said. \"He probably has the largest investment of any fan in America, so we get a kick out of him. He has got quite a flair, and we love him as a sort of a superfan.\"\n\nThe son of Nanette (née Gamse) and Milwaukee department store owner, C. Ellis Goldstein. Goldstein said he began watching NBA games as a 10-year-old. At the age of 15 he was hired to keep game statistics by the Milwaukee Hawks. \"Once I did that and sat courtside for the games, I was totally hooked\", he said. \"My entire life has been devoted to professional basketball since then. I have such a passion for the game. I think there's more athleticism displayed in basketball than in any other sport.\" Goldstein graduated from Nicolet High School in Milwaukee, Wisconsin where he played on the basketball team. He then attended Stanford University and has remained in California ever since.\n\nHaving attended over 2,000 games, Goldstein befriended several current and former NBA players, including Wilt Chamberlain, Clyde Drexler, Hakeem Olajuwon, Shaquille O'Neal, Sam Cassell, and Dennis Rodman.\n\nUnlike some other \"super fans\" however, Goldstein is content to simply observe the games and enjoy them, without yelling at referees or taunting players. He claims to have no favorite team, in spite of his Lakers and Clippers season tickets. He describes himself as a fan of the NBA in general.\n\nGoldstein refuses to disclose how he made his fortune or his net worth, although the \"Wall Street Journal\" speculated that Goldstein made billions in real estate (notably Century City in Los Angeles). When asked, he typically responds, \"Let’s just say I had some investments that worked out pretty well.\" \"I try not to think about the cost,\" he said. \"It's worth it to me.\"\n\nHe has never married, nor has had any children. He has stated that he doesn't believe in marriage.\n\nGoldstein's house, known as Sheats Goldstein Residence, has been featured in \"Architectural Digest\", DOLCE magazine, \"The New York Times\", Robb Report, and \"Town & Country\". The house was designed in 1963 by John Lautner, a student of Frank Lloyd Wright. Goldstein purchased the property in the 1970s from previous owners who did not keep the house in good condition. Goldstein commissioned Lautner to make changes and improvements to the house. Below the main residence is an installation by light artist James Turrell known as \"Skyspace\" or \"Sky Box\".\n\nGoldstein worked closely with Lautner and Duncan Nicholson, who took over after Lautner's death in 1994. Nicholson is now chief architect. \"I wanted to remake the house exactly as John [Lautner] would have wanted it, and to introduce technology that didn't exist 30 years ago\", Goldstein explained. The property next door to his also had a Lautner designed house on it, which Goldstein bought and tore down to build a party house, tennis court and office. He continues to make improvements. In 2016, Goldstein promised that the house eventually will become the property of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.\n\nThe residence has also been featured in a number of movies, including \"\", \"French Exit\", and \"The Big Lebowski\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47680001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47680001", "title": "Jerai Torres", "text": "Jerai Torres\n\nJerai Torres (born 25 May 1994) is a male Gibraltarian sprinter. He represented his country in the 200 metres at the 2013 and 2015 World Championships in Athletics without advancing from the first round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31714248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31714248", "title": "Kukri Sports", "text": "Kukri Sports\n\nKukri Sports Ltd (pron: \"kuk-ree\") is an international sportswear brand specialising in manufacturing bespoke sportswear for over 100 sports, including rugby league, rugby union, netball, hockey, cricket and football.\n\nThe name 'Kukri' is taken from a well travelled Rugby team, The Flying Kukri's, who were inspired by the Gurkhas and their Kukri knife.\n\nKukri provide sportswear - playing kit, training kit, leisurewear and accessories - for over 100 sports worldwide.\n\nOn April 24, 2013, Kukri announced a deal to supply all delegation and teamwear for the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow for Commonwealth Games England. The announcement was made at St George's Park National Football Centre on St. George's Day (April 23, 2013). Kukri supplied apparel for over 500 team members for the Games, including all their formal wear for the opening ceremony, competition teamwear and delegation wear, including ceremonial tracksuits.\n\nThe Commonwealth Games England kit was revealed for the first time with a fashion show at the Trafford Centre on Wednesday, 28 May 2014. Kukri and Commonwealth Games England then began kitting out Team Members with a kitting out distribution session spread over two weeks at St George's Park National Football Centre.\n\nAs well as kitting out Commonwealth Games England, Kukri also provided kit to other nations including Canada, Wales, Scotland, Jersey, Papua New Guinea, Isle of Man, Northern Ireland, Gibraltar, Anguilla and Guernsey.\n\nFor the first time a range of Team England merchandise was available to purchase.\n"}
{"id": "610380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610380", "title": "Kwik cricket", "text": "Kwik cricket\n\nKwik cricket (known as MILO Kanga cricket in Australia, and MILO Kiwi cricket in New Zealand) is a high-speed version of cricket aimed mainly at encouraging children to take part in the main sport, with an emphasis on participation and enjoyment.\n\nMany of the rules are adapted from cricket, but Kwik cricket is played with a plastic bat and ball (for obvious safety and physical reasons), and plastic cones to mark the maximum width of a legally bowled ball. The rules can be altered so that virtually any number of children can play in the time available, and the game can be made easier or more difficult by changing the physical dimensions of the pitch (changing the width of the wickets, increasing the distance between the wickets, widening or narrowing the crease, pulling in or pushing out the boundary, etc.).\n\nFor example, continuous KwikcCricket can be played by two groups of 10 or 12, with each batting for a set period of time, the Lord's Game can be played by two groups of four or five, and pairs Kwik cricket works for groups of 8, each playing as a pair and rotating the roles (batsmen; bowler and wicket-keeper; leg side and off side fielders).\n\nEquipment:\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand the game is more formal than in the UK, where the rules include a one-handed catch resulting in the dismissal of the entire team, and rather than plastic cones a nearby landmark is used as a theoretical boundary.\n\nCones are placed next to the batsman's left and right leg (about one metre away), Tennis balls are placed on these cones. In most cases in Australia, if the bowler bowls a no-ball, wide, dead ball, etc., the person batting would hit either of the cones for a \"free shot\". The fielders cannot move until the batsman hits the ball.\n\n"}
{"id": "7984047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7984047", "title": "Law Enforcement Torch Run", "text": "Law Enforcement Torch Run\n\nThe Law Enforcement Torch Run (LETR) is a campaign to benefit the Special Olympics. It began in 1981 in Wichita, Kansas, and is the largest grass-roots fundraising movement for the Special Olympics.\n\nLETR is run by police officers, sheriff's deputies, correction officers, support staff, police volunteers and other law enforcement professionals from around the world.\nClose to 97,000 police professionals in over 45 countries participate in this worldwide effort to raise money and awareness for Special Olympics.\nParticipants in the LETR help spread the word about the benefits of Special Olympics and how the program helps define the brave participants of these programs as athletes, and not define them by their disabilities. Since its inception in 1981, LETR has raised $619,187,626.\n\nSimilar in many ways to the Olympic Torch Relay, the Law Enforcement Torch Run consists of scheduled relay events, usually held in conjunction and coordination with Special Olympics functions (like the Special Olympics Summer and Winter Games). While carrying the flame, officers and athletes are referred to as \"Guardians of the Flame\".\nIn the broader sense, the LETR is used to define all of the special events, and fundraising activities that law enforcement conducts to contribute to this campaign. This includes (but is not limited to), tip-a-cop events, car washes, Polar Plunges, roof sits, motorcycle runs, online fundraising, T-shirt and hat sales, media events, and more.\n\nEvery two years, the Special Olympics World Games are held. This brings about a special torch run called the Final Leg Run, during which, law enforcement, together with Special Olympic athletes, run the Flame of Hope throughout the host country for the games, spreading awareness for Special Olympics. This culminates with the lighting of the cauldron for the Flame of Hope at the opening ceremonies for the Special Olympics World Games.\n\nEvery year, members of the LETR converge at the International LETR conference to exchange ideas, and network about Special Olympics awareness and fundraising techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "25035612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25035612", "title": "Lebanese Basketball Federation", "text": "Lebanese Basketball Federation\n\nThe Lebanese Basketball Federation, known in French as the Fédération Libanaise de Basketball (FLB or FLBB), is the governing body of basketball in Lebanon.\n\nThe federation founded in 1947, represents basketball with public authorities as well as with national and international sports organizations and as such with Lebanon in international competitions. It also defends the moral and material interests of Lebanese basketball. It is affiliated with FIBA and FIBA Asia.\n\nThe federation also organizes the Lebanon national basketball team and the Lebanon women's national basketball team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40873213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40873213", "title": "Macedonian Volleyball Federation", "text": "Macedonian Volleyball Federation\n\nVolleyball Federation was established in 1946 in the framework of physical culture Association of Macedonia. It was one of the founding members of the World Volleyball Federation (FIVB) (with Belgium, Brazil, Egypt, France, the Netherlands, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Uruguay and the US). On 13 February 1949, the Macedonian volleyball federation has become an independent sports organization.\n"}
{"id": "4220881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4220881", "title": "Makomanai Open Stadium", "text": "Makomanai Open Stadium\n\nThe Makomanai Sekisui Heim Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Sapporo, Japan. During the 1972 Winter Olympics, it hosted the opening and closing ceremonies and the speed skating events. Located inside the Makomanai Park, the stadium holds 17,324 people.\n\nCurrently the stadium holds the speed skating Winter Annual National Competition, and until 2011 the Toyota Big Air snowboarding contest.\n\nDuring summer it is used as tennis courts (up to 8 at the same time) or futsal fields (up to 2 at the same time).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31538626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31538626", "title": "Mohamed Harouna", "text": "Mohamed Harouna\n\nMohamed Salem Ould Harouna, familiarly known as Sneïdry (born 1950 in Atar) is a Mauritanian footballer and coach. \n\nAfter completing graduate study in Algiers and CREPS Reims, Haroun was a professor at the \"Centre National de Formation des Cadres de la Jeunesse et des Sports\" (CNFCJS) in Nouakchott. From 1982 to 1983, he coached the Mauritania national football team. From 1984 to 1988 he was director of studies at CNFCJS. From 1988 to 1990, Sneïdry was director of physical education and sports.\n\nHe led a rich sporting career. Sneïdry was university champion in 1975 in Algeria (100 m and long jump). In 1977, he became champion of the University of France in football (CREPS Reims). Chebab player in 1978, the Wharf and the Ksar until 1988, he holds several championship trophies and a national cup. He coached the Ksar repeatedly and the team representing Air Mauritania from 1999 to 2007.\n"}
{"id": "27254582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27254582", "title": "Moldavian Cycling Federation", "text": "Moldavian Cycling Federation\n\nThe Moldavian Cycling Federation (), abbreviated to FCM, is the national governing body of cycle racing in Moldova.\n\nThe FCMis a member of the UCI and the UEC.\n"}
{"id": "7479692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7479692", "title": "Netherlands at the 1932 Summer Olympics", "text": "Netherlands at the 1932 Summer Olympics\n\nThe Netherlands competed at the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, United States. 45 competitors, 31 men and 14 women, took part in 29 events in 9 sports.\n\n\n\nTwo cyclists, both men, represented the Netherlands in 1932.\n\n\n\n\nTwo fencers, one man and one woman, represented the Netherlands in 1932.\n\n\n\n\n\nOne male pentathlete represented the Netherlands in 1932.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "592625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592625", "title": "Padding", "text": "Padding\n\nPadding is thin cushioned material sometimes added to clothes. Padding may also be referred to as batting when used as a layer in lining quilts or as a packaging or stuffing material. When padding is used in clothes, it is often done in an attempt to soften impacts on certain zones of the body or enhance appearance by 'improving' a physical feature, often a sexually significant one. In fashion, there is padding for:\n\n\nSome padding is added to emphasize particular physical features that are usually not present. Women, for instance, rarely have prominent shoulders, but for some years shoulder pads have been added to dresses (blouses, etc.). The effect was unnatural for women, but gave them a more masculine outline which was sometimes thought to be of benefit in business situations.\n\nPadding in undergarments is also used by some crossdressers. This may include a form of padding in the shape of male genitals worn in the underwear of a female who is passing as a male, or hip and buttock padding worn by a male who is passing as a female.\n\nPadding is also added to clothing for insulation or cushioning reasons. Thus, many coats and outergarments (especially those for outdoor use in cold climates) are padded with such materials as felt or down or feathers or artificial insulations. Cushioning padding is included in some sporting goods, especially those intended for use in combat sports (e.g., fencing, some martial arts, etc.). Garments intended for actual use in combat were once commonly padded (e.g., by the ancient Greeks under armor, or by the Japanese until the mid-19th century), but have largely been replaced by light armor made of, for instance, Kevlar. If included in a vest, such armor makes a bullet-proof vest. Padding is also used by athletes in sports where friction is an issue, most notably in cycling shorts where it is termed a cycling pad.\n"}
{"id": "17890660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17890660", "title": "Persepolis VC", "text": "Persepolis VC\n\nPersepolis Volleyball Club () is an Iranian Volleyball club based in Tehran, Iran.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54255093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54255093", "title": "Required run rate", "text": "Required run rate\n\nThe required run rate, or asking rate, in the sport of cricket is the number of runs per over the batting side must score in order to win the present match. Expressed differently, it is the total number of runs required of the batting team to win the match, divided by the total number of overs remaining in the match.\n\nThe required run rate is typically a statistic that is tracked in real-time during a limited-overs match, including Twenty20 and One Day International matches. It is usually shown in the second innings, when the side batting in that innings is chasing the other's run total from the first innings. Higher required run rates are more difficult to achieve, since batsmen are forced to score more runs within a limited number of deliveries from the bowling side. The required run rate can also be used in Test cricket, usually in the fourth innings of a match, when the batting side is chasing the opposing team's total with a limited number of possible overs left to play, though use of the term is less common in this form of the game.\n\nIn recent times, required run rates have often tended to be particularly high as batting sides have grown increasingly accustomed to chasing high run totals, especially in Twenty20 cricket.\n\n"}
{"id": "967802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967802", "title": "Rip Curl", "text": "Rip Curl\n\nRip Curl is a major Australian designer, manufacturer, and retailer of surfing sportswear (also known as \"boardwear\") and accompanying products, and a major athletic sponsor. Rip Curl has become one of the largest surfing companies in Australia, Europe, South America, North America and South Africa. Globally, Rip Curl is considered a successful member of the \"Big Three\", of the surf industry alongside Quiksilver and Billabong.\n\nRip Curl is still owned by the founders. , Michael Daly is the chief executive officer (CEO) of Rip Curl Group.\n\nThe company was founded in 1969 by Doug Warbrick and Brian Singer in Torquay, Victoria, Australia, and initially produced surfboards. In 1970, they decided to begin production of wetsuits, with an emphasis on transforming diving technology into a wetsuit suitable for surfing. Alan Green (co-founder of Quiksliver) was a Rip Curl employee in 1969 and developed the first Quiksilver boardshorts at the Rip Curl Factory in April 1970.\n\nIn mid-2012, Singer and Warbrick engaged the services of Bank of America Merrill Lynch to sell the brand, but the plan was abandoned in March 2013.\n\nRip Curl is responsible for one of the most powerful campaigns in surfing history: The Search.\nPivotal surf films by legendary filmmaker Sonny Miller were created as part of the Search campaign:\nThe Search (1992) \nThe Search II (1993)\nBeyond the Boundaries: The Search III (1994) \nFeral Kingdom (1995)\nTripping the Planet (1996)\nand Searching for Tom Curren (1996), which was awarded Video of the Year by Surfer magazine in 1997.\nIn 2015 Rip Curl relaunched The Search.\n\nRip Curl is known for manufacturing technical products and innovation in the surf industry. Rip Curl's \"FlashBomb Wetsuit\" won three consecutive SIMA (Surf Industry Manufacturers Association) awards for \"Wetsuit of the Year\" in 2011, 2012 and 2013.\n\nThe Rip Curl Group took home six wins at the 2017 SBIA Awards in Australia.\n\nRip Curl's Marketing Campaign \"My Bikini\" took home the SIMA Award for \"Women's Campaign of the Year\" in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016.\n\nRip Curl Received 2015 SIMA awards for:\nWomen’s Marketing Campaign of the Year - My Bikini\nWetsuit Brand of the Year – Flash Bomb Zip Free\nAccessory Product of the Year – SearchGPS Watch\nWomen’s Swim Brand of the Year\nMen’s Boardshort of the Year – Mirage MF Driven\n\n\n\nTom Curren, a legend and iconic Surfer Won the World Title in 1985, 1986, 1990.\n\nTyler Wright won the WSL World Title in 2016.\n\nMick Fanning has Won the ASP World Title three times, in 2007, 2009 and 2013.\n\nGabriel Medina won the ASP World Title in 2014.\n\nBethany Hamilton and Mick Fanning were inducted into the iconic Surfer's Hall of Fame in Huntington Beach in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "4941882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4941882", "title": "Riverside Stadium, Drumahoe", "text": "Riverside Stadium, Drumahoe\n\nRiverside Stadium, formerly the YMCA Grounds, is a football stadium in Drumahoe, County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. It is the home ground of Institute F.C. of the NIFL Championship. The stadium holds 3,110 people with 1,540 seated. \n\nIn 1980, a site at Drumahoe was purchased jointly by the Presbyterian Working Men's Institute (of which Institute was the football team) and the local YMCA. The new football grounds were not opened officially until January 1985, but Institute had been playing at the YMCA Grounds since 1980.\n\nThe development of a stadium began in 1995 when the club established a committee to plan the its development with a view to gaining entry to the Irish League B Division, the top level of intermediate football. The ground was enclosed by a new security fence, and new changing rooms, toilets, facilities for disabled fans, rooms for hospitality and a shop, and two new turnstiles were added and admission to the B Division was achieved in 1996. A second phase of development resulted in the erection of a new 300-seater stand and floodlights. This was enough to gain senior status with admission to the Irish League First Division in 1999.\n\nIn May 2008, the club secured £800,000 worth of funding for improvements to the ground. In May 2009, the club installed new floodlights at each corner of the ground, and in November 2010, more ground development began, involving the building of a new 800-seater stand at one of the goal-mouths. This work was completed in August 2011.\n\nSevere flooding through the North-West of Northern Ireland on the evening of 22 August 2017 devastated Institute when the ground was destroyed by water reaching as high as 7 foot inside changing rooms and with 5 foot of sediment piled on top of what was left of the playing surface (which would later develop Japanese Knotweed). The perimeter fence was ripped out and nearby trees were uprooted, some of which were washed onto the pitch.\n"}
{"id": "51536308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51536308", "title": "Russia women's national under-23 volleyball team", "text": "Russia women's national under-23 volleyball team\n\nThe Russia women's national under-23 volleyball team represents Russia in international women's volleyball competitions and friendly matches under the age 23 and it is ruled by the Russian Volleyball Federation That is an affiliate of Federation of International Volleyball FIVB and also a part of European Volleyball Confederation CEV.\n\n Champions   Runners up   Third place   Fourth place\n\n"}
{"id": "53974221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53974221", "title": "Slovak National Football League", "text": "Slovak National Football League\n\nThe Slovak National Football League was the second-tier football league of Czechoslovakia and the top division in Slovak Socialist Republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "24423000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24423000", "title": "Spartakiad (Czechoslovakia)", "text": "Spartakiad (Czechoslovakia)\n\nThe Spartakiads or Spartakiades in Czechoslovakia (, ) were mass gymnastics events, designed to celebrate the Red Army's liberation of Czechoslovakia in 1945. They were organised by the Communist government as a replacement of the similar Sokol gatherings, which were disapproved by the regime and discontinued after World War II. The Spartakiads took place at the Strahov Stadium, the largest stadium ever built and the venue of the last pre-war Sokol gathering.\n\nThe first Spartakiad took place in 1955, and was subsequently held every five years. The Spartakiad scheduled for 1970 was canceled in the wake of the Prague Spring and the beginning of normalization. Preparations for the Spartakiad scheduled for 1990 were interrupted by the Velvet Revolution, but the event still took place, although on a much smaller scale than the previous ones.\n\nThe Spartakiads were attended by large numbers of people; for example, at the 1960 Spartakiad about 750,000 gymnasts from the whole country took part and over 2,000,000 spectators witnessed the event.\n\nMen and women of all ages practiced their exercising routines for the event. Appearance was originally mandatory for students and servicemen of the armed forces and police. During the Normalization years, it became more voluntary.\n\n"}
{"id": "11437069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11437069", "title": "Stade Larbi Zaouli", "text": "Stade Larbi Zaouli\n\nStade Larbi-Zaouli is a multi-use stadium in Casablanca, Morocco. It is used mostly for football matches and TAS de Casablanca are the current tenants. The stadium has a capacity of 30,000 people.\n\nGroundhopping Links: Homegame-Impressions of the Stade Larbi-Zaouli\n"}
{"id": "3088567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3088567", "title": "Ten Essentials", "text": "Ten Essentials\n\nThe Ten Essentials are survival items that hiking and Scouting organizations recommend for safe travel in the backcountry.\n\nThe Ten Essentials first appeared in print in the third edition of \"\" (January 1974). Many regional organizations and authors recommend that hikers, backpackers, and climbers rigorously ensure they have the ten essentials with them. However, personal preferences and differences in conditions may dictate otherwise and with experience most adventurers add and subtract from the list depending on the situation. Some lightweight hikers do not always carry all of the items and believe it is an acceptable risk they take in order to travel light and fast.\n\nAccording to the eighth edition of \"\" book there are ten essentials, which are now referred to as the \"classic\" essentials. While still valid and widely used they do not reflect modern outdoor sports and all of the new gadgets that now are common.\n\nIn 2003, the essential list was revised as part of the seventh edition of \"\" to keep up with modern equipment. The current edition, 8th edition continues with the new essentials list with no major revisions. The new list takes a \"systems\" or functional approach.\n\n\nThe textbook recommends supplementing the \"ten essentials\" with:\n\nSome experts recommend having duplicates of the Essentials in different sized kits: in pockets, on key rings, in pocket kits, belt pouches, belt packs, day packs, and backpacks.\n\nOther outdoor organizations have variations of the \"Ten Essentials\" pertinent to local conditions. \n\nBoy Scouts of America's \"Scout Basic Essentials\" are quite similar (Map and Compass, Sun Protection, Extra Clothing, Flashlight, First-Aid Kit, Matches and Fire-starters, Pocketknife, Trail Food, Water Bottle, and Rain Gear.)\n\nUtah's Wasatch Mountain Club lists extra water in place of food, as Utah is mostly desert terrain, and water is more difficult to find.\n\nThe Spokane Mountaineers list \"thirteen essentials\", which supplement the list with emergency shelter such as a space blanket, signaling device, and toilet paper and trowel (for sanitary disposal of human waste; the toilet paper also doubles as tinder for starting a fire).\n\nThe \"Ten Essential Groups\" is an alternative approach to essential gear selection. Items from each group should be chosen depending on the season, geographic location, and trip duration. In 2011, Columbia Sportswear adopted the \"Ten Essential Groups\" concept for their iOS app \"Take Ten to the Greater Outdoors\".\n\nCentral Arizona Mountain Rescue Association promotes the 12 Essentials, which includes Signaling Devices and Personal Items.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31766832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31766832", "title": "The Experts Network", "text": "The Experts Network\n\nThe Experts Network, also known as TXN and TXN Sports, is an interactive digital sports network consisting of sports analysts Cris Collinsworth, Boomer Esiason, Nick Faldo, Howie Long, Cal Ripken Jr. and Phil Simms.\n\nTXN specializes in the development of digital and original programming, repurposed content, and high-end special events. TXN formulates strategic distribution partnerships with online sports networks and serves as the online \"destination\" sports property.\n\nThe digital network launched on April 26, 2011. The presenters collaborate on digital and social media programming delivering their knowledge, opinions, and personal stories on topics in sports news and culture.\n\nMost recently, Big Lead Sports, an independent digital sports company with more than 19 million users, partnered with TXNSPORTS.com to deliver NFL Draft content through an array of different channels.\n\nOn April 25, 2011 The Experts Network produced its first-ever sports show previewing the NFL Draft. The TXN NFL Draft Preview Show presented by Men's Wearhouse included exclusive draft breakdown by the top expert voices in NFL television. It was streamed and promoted exclusively on TXNSPORTS.com and across all of Big Lead Sports' digital platforms.\n\nOn October 1, 2010, TXN launched its first digital effort with Turner/SI.com and Allstate Insurance to produce Behind-The-Mic, a series of web-based vignettes providing analysis on news and issues in sports. The SI.com video series showcases the candid views, insights and expertise of some of the biggest names in sports broadcasting.\n\nEach week Behind the Mic presented by Allstate features multiple 90-second video segments with the analysts offering their insights and opinions on topics impacting the sports they are most associated with, as well as responding to comments made by newsmakers that have resonated within their sport. Additional video segments are added during each sport’s respective postseasons and championships.\n\nThe collection of on-air personalities includes multiple Hall of Famers, MVPs, World Champions, All-Stars, Pro Bowlers and Emmy Award winners including Turner Sports roster of marquee on-air personalities. Featured Analysts for Behind the Mic presented by Allstate include:\n\nCharles Barkley, 1993 NBA MVP & Basketball Hall of Famer (NBA)\n\nCris Collinsworth, 3-time Pro Bowler (NFL)\n\nBoomer Esiason, 1988 NFL MVP & 4-time Pro Bowler (NFL)\n\nNick Faldo, 6-time Major Winner (Golf)\n\nDoug Flutie, Heisman Trophy Winner (NCAA Football)\n\nHowie Long, 8-time Pro Bowler & Pro Football Hall of Famer (NFL)\n\nKevin McHale, 7-time NBA All-Star & Basketball Hall of Famer\n\nReggie Miller, 5-time NBA All-Star\n\nCal Ripken, 19-time MLB All-Star & MLB Hall of Famer (MLB)\n\nPhil Simms, 2-time Super Bowl Champion & Super Bowl XX MVP (NFL)\n\nKenny Smith, 2-time NBA Champion (NBA)\n\nhttp://sportsillustrated.cnn.com/behindthemic/\n\nCris Collinsworth is the Emmy Award-winning analyst and the lead analyst of NBC Sports Sunday Night Football and contributor to Showtime's Inside the NFL.\n\nBoomer Esiason is an analyst for CBS Sports The NFL Today and the co-host of Boomer and Carton on WFAN NY. He is also the lead analyst of Monday Night Football on Westwood One Radio Network.\n\nNick Faldo is the lead analyst of golf for CBS Sports and The Golf Channel.\n\nHowie Long is a lead analyst for NFL on FOX pre-game show.\n\nCal Ripken Jr. is an analyst for MLB on Turner.\n\nPhil Simms is the lead analyst for the NFL on CBS, and a contributor to INSIDE THE NFL on Showtime.\n\nTXN plans to add new Experts to its already impressive line-up, as each professional sports season arrives, in order to provide a large array of content to supply the demand of sports fans everywhere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26284441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26284441", "title": "Uganda at the 1996 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Uganda at the 1996 Summer Paralympics\n\nUganda sent a delegation to compete at the 1996 Summer Paralympics in Atlanta, United States. The country thus made its return to the Summer Paralympic Games after a twenty-year absence. It entered only one athlete, who competed in powerlifting. He did not win a medal.\n\nRichard Bogere, Uganda's only representative, competed in the 67.5 kg event. He finished 21st (last of those who completed the event), with a lifted weight of 110 kg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9230749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9230749", "title": "Uzbekistan at the 2007 Asian Winter Games", "text": "Uzbekistan at the 2007 Asian Winter Games\n\nUzbekistan participatied in the 2007 Asian Winter Games held in Changchun, China from January 28, 2007 to February 4, 2007.\n\nMedals as of January 30, 2007\n"}
{"id": "12729441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12729441", "title": "Volta ao Distrito de Santarém", "text": "Volta ao Distrito de Santarém\n\nThe Volta ao Distrito de Santarém (Tour of Santarém District) is a road bicycle racing stage race held annually in the District of Santárem, Portugal. Since 2006, it has been organised as a 2.1 event on the UCI Europe Tour.\n\n"}
