{"id": "36395332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36395332", "title": "Abelardo Lafuente García-Rojo", "text": "Abelardo Lafuente García-Rojo\n\nAbelardo Lafuente Garcia-Rojo (Madrid 1871 – Shanghai 1931) was a Spanish architect and entrepreneur who had his own studio in colonial Shanghai. Between 1913 and 1931 he was the only Spaniard to have an architect studio registered in the city; Lafuente collaborated with several contemporary architects. Lafuente blended the mozarab and moorish styles from Spain into Chinese architecture. In 2009, the Spanish architect Alvaro Leonardo Perez established the \"Lafuente Research Project\". The findings of this project were first presented at the Shanghai World Expo in 2010 in collaboration with the Instituto Cervantes. The Lafuente Research Project is ongoing.\n\nLafuente's professional career began in Manila. His studio was named \"A. Lafuente Architect & Contractor\". In 1913 Lafuente moved to Shanghai where he opened a new studio named \"A. Lafuente Garcia-Rojo, Architect & Contractor\". Later, Lafuente joined American architect G. O. Wootten to form the \"Lafuente & Wootten\" studio. The two architects worked together for several years, their most notable work being the ballroom at the Astor House Hotel, built in 1917. After this period he maintained the studio on his own and called it \"A. Lafuente Gª Rojo Architect\". Afterwards he partnered with Russian architect A. J. Yaron, changing the studio's name once again to \"Lafuente & Yaron\".\n\nFor the better part of the following 10 years Lafuente worked for the biggest hotel company in Asia at the time: the Hong Kong and Shanghai Hotels Ltd., rehabilitating and refurbishing their buildings. His most important work during this project was the Majestic Hotel (1924) where he designed its new ballroom (the most luxurious in Asia at that time). Some of his other projects included churches, mosques, private villas, apartment buildings, movie theaters, private clubs, and hospitals, among others.\n\nHis reputation in the Spanish colony is described in the book by Vicente Blasco Ibanez \"La vuelta al mundo de un novelista\". Spanish entrepreneur Antonio Ramos was his most important influence during his time in China and his most outstanding client. Ramos brought motion pictures to China. Lafuente was commissioned to build some of Ramos' most important cinemas.\n\nLafuente also worked in North America. In Los Angeles and in Tijuana he built houses. During 1927–1930, Lafuente maintained operations in Shanghai while he developed his business in California and Mexico. At the end of this period, after being significantly affected by the Crash of 1929, he decided to return to Shanghai and undertake more projects there. He died in Shanghai at the Shanghai General Hospital in 1931, aged 60.\n"}
{"id": "29379772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29379772", "title": "Ali Ghandour", "text": "Ali Ghandour\n\nAli Ghandour (born 1931) is the president of ARAM Trading and Technology. He is a native of Lebanon and a Jordanian citizen.\n\nGhandour grew up in Beirut, Lebanon where he spent most of his youth, he was admitted to IC, a private co-educational preparatory school to the American University of Beirut which he graduated from later with Aerospace engineering degree. he also went for further education at New York University - United States.\nGandour went back to Lebanon in 1954 and joined the Lebanese Civil Aviation Authority as an engineer and Head of aviation Safety.\n\nGhandour's political tendencies led him to join the Syrian Social Nationalist Party (SSNP) whose members were chased after by the Lebanese government due to a failed coup which the party attempted in 1961. Despite the fact that Ghandour was in Paris on a training course during the coup, he was wanted by the Lebanese government and considered a fugitive. Thus, Gandour took refuge at Paris then Côte d'Ivoire which he left later to Kuwait.\n\nGhandour's refuge to Kuwait was accepted by the Kuwaiti authorities as long as no conviction was issued by the Lebanese government for his arrest. Ghandour remained and worked for the Directorate General of Civil Aviation in Kuwait not long before a death sentence \"in absentia\" was issued by Lebanon which forced him to Leave immediately to Jordan.\n\nGhandour and colleagues from the (SSNP) went to meet up with King Hussein to thank him for Jordan's acceptance of refuge. The meeting was Ghandour's life turning point when King Hussein asked him about his future plans to which Ghandour's intentions were to travel back to West Africa, King Hussein did not recommend Ghandour's plans, instead he offered him to remain in Jordan in order to establish a new national airline to which Ghandour accepted.\n\nGandour presented the Feasibility study to King Hussein which he liked and gave orders to commence the project backed up by a Royal decree in 1963 . A week later, a DCC plane were leased from Lebanese International Airways and were scheduled to fly to Jerusalem and Beirut. 2 more Dart Herald of Royal Jordanian Air Force were provided by King Hussein to convert into civilian planes for usage in the newly established airline.\n\nGandour's recommendation to name the new airline Royal Jordanian was approved by King Hussein, the name was also extended to ALIA after the king's eldest daughter Princess Alia. (It is a common misconception that the airline was named after the King's third wife, Queen Alia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48842881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48842881", "title": "Amblin Partners", "text": "Amblin Partners\n\nAmblin Partners (legally known as Storyteller Holding Co., LLC and Storyteller Distribution Co., LLC) is an American content creation and entertainment company which produces and develops films and television programming. Amblin is a restructured DreamWorks Studios.\n\nAmblin Partners was founded by Steven Spielberg, Jeff Skoll of Participant Media, Anil Ambani of Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group and Darren Throop of Entertainment One on December 16, 2015. The company will primarily focus on producing and distributing films and television using the DreamWorks Pictures, Amblin Entertainment and Participant Media brands. For films, it will use the DreamWorks label for mature content, Amblin label for family-friendly content, and Participant label for social justice content, although the latter will remain a separate company.\n\nOn the same day as the company's formation, Amblin Partners announced that it entered into a five-year distribution deal with Universal Pictures by which the films will be distributed and marketed by either the main Universal label or its specialty label, Focus Features. \"The Girl on the Train\" was the first film released under the new agreement.\n\nOn October 9, 2016, Amblin Partners struck a deal with China's Alibaba Pictures, in which Alibaba acquired a minority equity stake in the company and will handle marketing, distribution support and merchandising of Amblin Partners films in China in addition to co-financing Amblin and DreamWorks films worldwide. On February 15, 2017, Universal acquired a minority stake in Amblin Partners, strengthening the relationship between Universal and Amblin, and reuniting a minority percentage of the DreamWorks Pictures label with its former animation division DreamWorks Animation.\n\nIn December 2017, Amblin Partners signed a music publishing deal with BMG Rights Management, covering music from its films and TV series.\n"}
{"id": "13614850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13614850", "title": "Anatoly Nikolaievich Demidov, 1st Prince of San Donato", "text": "Anatoly Nikolaievich Demidov, 1st Prince of San Donato\n\nCount Anatoly Nikolaievich Demidov, 1st Prince of San Donato (; 5 April OS: 24 March 1813 – 29 April 1870) was a Russian industrialist, diplomat and arts patron of the Demidov family.\n\nBorn in Saint Petersburg or Moscow, he was the second surviving son of Count Nikolai Nikitich Demidov and Baroness Elisabeta Alexandrovna Stroganova. He grew up in Paris, where his father was ambassador. He served briefly as a diplomat himself in Paris (living in the hôtel built by Charles de Wailly for the sculptor Augustin Pajou, at 87 rue de la Pépinière, now the rue La Boétie), Rome and Venice. Upon his father's death in 1828, Anatole settled for good in western Europe, returning to Russia as little as possible. This attitude alienated him from tsar Nicholas I of Russia, who always had an antipathy towards him.\n\nIn 1837–38, he organised a scientific expedition of 22 scholars, writers and artists (of which Auguste Raffet and the critic Jules Janin became Demidov's friends) to southern Russia and the Crimea, headed up by Frédéric Le Play. It cost 500,000 francs and its results were published as \"Voyage dans la Russie méridionale et la Crimée\" (4 vol., 1840–1842), with 100 original lithographs by Raffet and dedicated to the tsar despite his not having taken any interest in the book (irritated as he was that most of the expedition's members had been French). Demidov also financed a trip to Russia by André Durand to relieve the peasants, the results of which were published as \"Voyage pittoresque et archéologique en Russie\" (1839). In 1840, Demidov himself published a series of articles on Russia in the \"Journal des Débats\" – these were collected as \"Lettres sur l’Empire de Russie\" (1840) with the aim of fighting certain received French ideas about Russia. Nevertheless, these works irritated Nicholas I due to their description of Russia's feudal system. In 1847 Demidov made a trip to Spain with Raffet, publishing an account of it later as \"Etapes maritimes sur les côtes d’Espagne\" (1858). In 1842, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nHe also considerably expanded the Demidov collection assembled by his father at the Villa San Donato near Florence, being particularly interested in Romantic art. In the Paris Salon of 1834 he acquired Paul Delaroche's \"The Execution of Lady Jane Grey\" (now in the National Gallery, London). In 1833, he bought François Marius Granet's \"The Death of Poussin\", which caused a sensation at the 1834 Salon. He commissioned paintings from Eugène Delacroix and watercolours from Richard Parkes Bonington and Théodore Géricault, as well as Briullov's \"The Last Day of Pompeii\". His collection was split up in public sales in Paris in 1863 and shortly before the prince's death in 1870.\n\nLike his parents, Demidov was a great admirer of Napoleon I of France. He built a museum below the house of San Martino on Elba, where Napoleon had lived during his first exile, and he caused a mass to be sung at Portoferraio every 5th of May (which is still sung today). In 1839, he was introduced by Jules Janin into the circle of Jérôme Bonaparte, former king of Westphalia, who was living in exile at the Villa di Quarto in Florence. A plan to marry Jérôme's daughter princess Mathilde-Létizia Bonaparte to Demidov was quickly formed. It was agreed that she would receive a dowry of 50,000 francs in jewels (bought by Demidov for 1 million francs from Jérôme, always short of money) and 240,000 francs in money, payable in instalments. A decree of 20 October 1840 also made Demidov the Prince of San Donato to allow the princess to hold onto her title, though Demidov's princely title was never recognised in Russia. The marriage took place in Rome or Florence on 1 November 1840.\n\nIn March 1841, the couple went to Saint Petersburg, where the Tsar was full of attention for his cousin (through the Württembergs) the princess and losing no opportunity to humiliate Demidov by any means possible. In spite of this, Anatole began his own infidelities. On 17 August 1841, the couple arrived in Paris, where they lived at hôtel Demidoff at 109 rue Saint-Dominique until June 1842, when they moved to spend a year in Saint Petersburg before finally setting up home at the Villa San Donato. Their relationship soon soured, with the princess taking Count Émilien de Nieuwerkerke as a lover, and Demidov taking Valentine de Sainte-Aldegonde, duchesse de Dino, as a mistress.\n\nMathilde made a violent scene with Valentine during a ball and in reply Demidov slapped her twice in public. Separated since 1843, in September 1846 Mathilde fled to Paris to take refuge with Nieuwerkerke, taking with her the jewels from her dowry. Even so, Demidov was condemned by a tribunal in Saint Petersburg to send Mathilde an annual pension of 200,000 francs and was never able to recover his jewels. In many ways, Demidov felt he deserved such punishment, and their separation was authorised in 1847 by a personal decision of tsar Nicholas I. Demidov's many other mistresses included Maria Calergis, considered one of the most beautiful women of her era, Ernestine Duverger, and Fanny de la Rochefoucauld (daughter of Francois, 8th duc de la Rochefoucauld, with whom he had an illegitimate son).\n\nDemidov tried to repair the damage the separation had done to his social standing by increasing his charitable donations. He created hospitals, orphanages and started an international committee to aid prisoners of the Crimean War, as well as giving 1 million roubles to finance that war (for which Alexander II of Russia made him chamberlain and councillor of state). In 1860, he, the duc de Morny and doctor Oliffe made up the consortium of investors which founded the bathing resort at Deauville, and he took part in the famous Carnival de Paris (a painting at the musée Carnavalet shows his team taking part).\n\nA bon viveur, two chicken dishes were named after him, including Chicken Demidoff (elaborately stuffed, smothered, tied up and garnished), and the Demidoff name is also applied to dishes of rissoles and red snapper. He died in 1870 of a pulmonary congestion in his hotel on rue Saint-Dominique in Paris. Dying without legitimate issue, his title of Prince of San Donato passed to his nephew Pavel Pavlovitch Demidov.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2149946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149946", "title": "Bank of America Tower (Manhattan)", "text": "Bank of America Tower (Manhattan)\n\nThe Bank of America Tower (BOAT) at One Bryant Park is a skyscraper in the Midtown area of Manhattan in New York City. It is located on Avenue of the Americas, between 42nd and 43rd Streets, opposite Bryant Park.\n\nThe project was designed by COOKFOX Architects, and advertised to be one of the most efficient and ecologically friendly buildings in the world. It is the fifth tallest building in New York City, after One World Trade Center, 432 Park Avenue, 30 Hudson Yards, and the Empire State Building, and the seventh tallest building in the United States. Construction was completed in 2009.\n\nThe building's Urban Garden Room at 43rd Street and 6th Avenue is open to the public.\n\nThe tower's architectural spire is tall and was placed on December 15, 2007. The building is 55 stories high and contains of office space, three escalators and a total of 52 elevators--50 to serve the offices and two leading to the New York City Subway's mezzanine below ground, for the 42nd Street – Bryant Park / Fifth Avenue station.\n\nSeveral buildings were demolished to make way for the tower. Among them was the Hotel Diplomat, a 13-story structure which had occupied the site at 108 West 43rd Street since 1911, and Henry Miller's Theatre, which was rebuilt and reopened at its previous location. The building's tenants include Bank of America as the anchor tenant and Marathon Asset Management, and the tower's platinum LEED rating and modern column-free office space has enticed tenants from all over the city. The Bank of America Tower is considered a worldwide model for green architecture in skyscrapers.\n\nThe design of the building makes it environmentally friendly, using technologies such as floor-to-ceiling insulated glazing to contain heat and maximize natural light, and an automatic daylight dimming system. The tower also features a greywater system, which captures rainwater for reuse. Bank of America states that the building is made largely of recycled and recyclable materials. Air entering the building is filtered, as is common, but the air exhausted is cleaned as well. Bank of America Tower is the first skyscraper designed to attain a Platinum LEED Certification.\n\nThe Bank of America Tower is constructed using a concrete manufactured with slag, a byproduct of blast furnaces. The mixture used in the tower concrete is 55% cement and 45% slag. The use of slag cement reduces damage to the environment by decreasing the amount of cement needed for the building, which in turn lowers the amount of carbon dioxide greenhouse gas produced through the normal cement manufacturing process. Each ton of regular cement produced creates about one ton of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.\n\nTemperature control and the production of some of its energy are accomplished in an environmentally friendly manner for the tower. Insulated glazing reduces thermal loss, lowering energy consumption and increasing transparency. Carbon dioxide sensors signal increased fresh air ventilation when elevated levels of carbon dioxide are detected in the building. Conditioned air for the occupants is provided by multiple air column units located in the tenant space that deliver 50 °F air into a raised access floor plenum. This underfloor air system provides users with the ability to control their own space temperature as well as improving the ventilation effectiveness. When building churn occurs, workstation moves can be performed more easily with lower cost and less product waste. The cooling system produces and stores ice during off-peak hours, and allows the ice to melt to help cool the building during peak load, similar to the ice batteries in the 1995 Hotel New Otani Tokyo in Japan. Ice batteries have been used since absorption chillers first made ice commercially available 150 years ago, before the invention of the electric light bulb.\n\nWater conservation features in the tower include waterless urinals, which are estimated to save of water per year and reduce CO emissions by per year (as calculated with the Pacific Institute water-to-air model). The tower has a 4.6-megawatt cogeneration plant, which provides part of the base-load energy requirements.\n\n\"Time\" magazine reported in August 2013 that the Bank of America Tower used twice as much energy overall as the Empire State Building, due to the large energy usage in the Bank of America Tower and the comparatively small occupancy rate of the Empire State Building.\n\nIn summer 2013, the Durst Organization employed Brooklyn Grange Rooftop Farm to install and maintain two honeybee hives on the building.\n\nWith the architectural spire included, the structural height of the Bank of America Tower is , making it the fifth tallest building in New York City (after One World Trade Center, 432 Park Avenue, 30 Hudson Yards, and the Empire State Building). A formal ruling by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat confirmed this.\n\nIn June 2008, the New York Academy of Sciences launched a podcast that highlights these green features.\n\nIn October 2009, the building was featured on episode 100 of the National Geographic Channel television series \"MegaStructures\".\n\nIn June 2010, the Bank of America Tower was the recipient of the 2010 Best Tall Building Americas award by the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat.\n\nMaterials fell from the building on three occasions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3099233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099233", "title": "Broad Street (Manhattan)", "text": "Broad Street (Manhattan)\n\nBroad Street is a narrow street located in the Financial District in the New York City borough of Manhattan. It stretches from South Street to Wall Street.\n\nOriginally the Broad Canal in New Amsterdam drawing from the East River, the canal was filled in 1676 after numerous fruit and vegetable vendors made it difficult for boats to enter the canal. Early establishments on Broad Street in the 1600s included the Fraunces Tavern and the Royal Exchange. Later on the area became the center of financial activity, and all smaller buildings in turn were replaced with grand banks and stock exchange buildings. Most of the structures that stand today date from the turn of the 20th century, along with more modern buildings constructed after the 1950s.\n\nBroad Street in old New Amsterdam was named for the Broad Canal, which it replaced. Originally an inlet from the East River, the canal was flanked by two solid ranks of three-story houses, with paths in front. Built during the administration of Peter Stuyvesant, the Broad Canal was the original Manhattan landing of the first ferry between Manhattan and Brooklyn, later the Fulton Ferry. The Lovelace Tavern, in business from 1670 to 1706 and owned by the then-New York colonial governor Colonel Francis Lovelace, occupied part of the current site of 85 Broad Street; however, the bar itself only had frontage on Pearl Street. New York Mayor Stephanus van Cortlandt built his home in 1671 on Broad Street, on the future site of Fraunces Tavern. Built as a one-story building in 1675, the Royal Exchange (later known as the Old Royal Exchange and the Merchants Exchange) was a covered marketplace located near the foot of Broad Street close to its intersection with Water Street. 30 Broad Street was once owned by the Dutch church which had erected the city’s second almshouse on the site before 1659. Broad Street was originally a canal first known as “Common Ditch” then later “The Prince’s Ditch”.\n\nThe canal was filled in 1676 because fruit and vegetable vendors, including Native Americans who came by canoe from Long Island, left the area littered, and fewer and fewer water craft were small enough to use the canal. The paths in front of the rows of houses by the canal were paved in 1676 as well. The road was first paved in 1693. The street saw a lot of change as the centuries progressed from Dutch to British rule and finally independent America. Among the tenants of Broad Street in the 18th century was bookseller Garrat Noel.\n\nThe city's first firehouse for the New York City Fire Department was built in 1736 in front of City Hall on Broad Street. A year later, on December 16, 1737, the colony's General Assembly created the Volunteer Fire Department of the City of New York.\n\nThe Broad Street building for the Fraunces Tavern was bought in 1762 by Samuel Fraunces, who converted the home into the popular tavern first named the Queen's Head. Before the American Revolution, the building was one of the meeting places of the secret society, the Sons of Liberty. In 1768, the New York Chamber of Commerce was founded by a meeting in the building.\n\nAfter a rebuilt in 1752 that added a meeting hall on the upper story, the Royal Exchange building was the location of the Chamber of Commerce in the City of New York (later Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York) from 1770 until the Revolutionary War. The United States District Court for the District of New York was one of the original 13 courts established by the Judiciary Act of 1789, and it first sat at the Royal Exchange (Merchants Exchange) building on Broad Street.\n\nThe 1835 Great Fire of New York destroyed whatever historical buildings were left from the early times of New Amsterdam/New York. Much of the street was destroyed again in the Great New York City Fire of 1845. In the first two hours of the fire's spread, it reached a large multi-story warehouse occupied by Crocker & Warren on Broad Street, where a large quantity of combustible saltpeter was stored. In July 1863, the New York Draft Riot in Manhattan became the largest civil insurrection in American history apart from the Civil War. Upon the outbreak of this riot, Jacob B. Warlow and his police unit contended with a mob on Broad Street, with Warlow also helping quell other riots throughout the city from his station house on Broad Street. As the area became the center of financial activity, all smaller buildings in turn were replaced with grand banks. Most of the structures that stand today date from the turn of the 20th century.\nA curb market of curbstone brokers became established on Broad Street in the mid-1800s, growing in part out of the Open Board of Brokers, previously in a building on New Street established in 1864. The Open Board was located at 16 and 18 Broad Street until 1869. After the Open Board joined the Consolidated Exchange, Open Board members specializing in unlisted stocks were left without \"a roof over their heads and took to meeting casually in the course of the day in convenient lobbies in the [financial] district.\" In August 1865, a reporter described the curb market in front of the new exchange building on Broad Street. \"There were at least a thousand people on the sidewalk and street... Buyer and seller, speculator and investor, operator and spectator, agent and principal, met face to face, upon the curb and beneath the sweltering sun, opened their mouths wide and screamed all manner of seeming nonsense at each other, while their hats tipped far toward the small of their backs, their eyes strained fiercely and their arms waved wildly above their heads, from which rolled rivers of profuse perspiration.\" In 1877, a new organization the New-York Open Board of Stock Brokers commissioned the same building at 16 and 18 Broad Street used by the old Open Board.\n\nThe Mills Building was completed in 1882 as a 10-story structure that stood at 15 Broad Street and Exchange Place, with an \"L\" to 35 Wall Street. It adjoined the building that was the home of Equitable Trust Company. It also adjoined the J. P. Morgan & Company Building on both Broad and Wall streets. The curb brokers were ousted by a number of buildings as their numbers grew, until they ended up in front of the Mills Building entrance on Broad Street. The Mills building would be replaced by the Equitable Trust Building skypscraper in 1928. The Stock Exchange Luncheon Club was a members-only dining club of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) founded on August 3, 1898 at 70 Broadway. It moved to 11 Wall Street in 1903.\n\nThe Broad Exchange Building at 25 Broad Street was built in 1900 to provide office space for financial companies including Paine Webber. At the time of its completion it was the largest office building in Manhattan. In 1903, NYSE moved into new quarters at 18 Broad Street, between the corners of Wall Street and Exchange Place.\n\nIn the mining boom of 1905 and 1906, the Curb market on Broad Street attracted some negative publicity for the \"wholesale use of the Curb for swindling.\" As of 1907, the curb brokers intentionally avoided organizing. The curb brokers had been kicked out of the Mills Building front by 1907, and had moved to the pavement outside the Blair Building where cabbies lined up. There they were given a \"little domain of asphalt\" fenced off by the police on Broad Street between Exchange Place and Beaver Street, after Police Commissioner McAddo took office. As of 1907, the curb market operated starting at 10'clock in the morning, each day except Sundays, until a gong at 3 o'clock. Orders for the purchase and sale of securities were shouted down from the windows of nearby brokerages, with the execution of the sale then shouted back up to the brokerage. The noise caused by the curb market led to a number of attempts to shut it down. In August 1907, for example, a Wall Street lawyer sent an open letter to the newspapers and the police commissioner, begging for the New York Curb Market on Broad Street to be immediately abolished as a public nuisance. He argued the curb exchange served \"no legitimate or beneficial purpose\" and was a \"gambling institution, pure and simple.\" He further cited laws relating to street use, arguing blocking the thoroughfare was illegal. The \"New York Times,\" reporting on the open letter, wrote that brokers informed of the letter \"were not inclined to worry.\" The article described \"their present ground on the broad asphalt in front of 40 Broad Street, south of the Exchange Place, is the first haven of which they have had anything like indisputed possession.\"\n\nIn 1908, the New York Curb Market Agency was established, which developed appropriate trading rules for curbstone brokers under \"curb agent\" E. S. Mendels. In 1910, Mendels testified before the Wall Street Investigating Committee on behalf of the curb brokers, when an attempt was made to dislodge them from Broad Street. In 1908, 70 Broad Street, between Marketfield and Beaver Street, became the American Bank Note Company Building, the headquarters of the American Bank Note Company. Built in 1913, 23 Wall Street or \"The Corner\", is an office building formerly owned by J.P. Morgan & Co. – later the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company – located at the southeast corner of Wall Street and Broad Street. So well known as the \"House of Morgan\" – that it was deemed unnecessary to mark the exterior with the Morgan name. In 1920, journalist Edwin C. Hill wrote that the curb exchange on lower Broad Street was a roaring, swirling whirlpool” that \"tears control of a gold-mine from an unlucky operator, then pauses to auction a puppy-dog. It is like nothing else under the astonishing sky that is its only roof.” After a group of Curb brokers formed a real estate company to design a building, Starrett & Van Vleck designed the new exchange building on Greenwich Street in Lower Manhattan between Thames and Rector, at 86 Trinity Place. It opened in 1921,< and the curbstone brokers moved indoors on June 27, 1921.\n\nWhen the high-profile New York firm Edward M. Fuller & Company went bankrupt in 1922, it had offices at 50 Broad Street. Next to the New York Stock Exchange, in 1929, a new 50-story Continental Bank Building was announced at 30 Broad Street (location of the former 15-story Johnston Building) to house the Continental Bank and Trust Company and various brokers. The building opened for occupancy on April 27, 1932.\n\nThe now-famous sculpture \"Charging Bull\" was installed on December 15, 1989 beneath a Christmas tree in the middle of Broad Street in front of the New York Stock Exchange as a Christmas gift to New Yorkers. After NYSE officials called police, it was later reinstalled two blocks south of the Exchange, in Bowling Green.\n\nIn 2011, the New York City Opera moved its offices to 75 Broad Street in Lower Manhattan. Some re-shooting for the film \"Money Monster\" took place in mid-January 2016 in New York City on William Street and Broad Street.\n\nNorth of Wall Street, Broad Street continues onto Nassau Street. The two southernmost skyscrapers in Manhattan are 1 New York Plaza on the west side of Broad Street, and 125 Broad Street on the east. The famous neo-Roman facade of the New York Stock Exchange and its main entrance is located on 18 Broad Street. Opposite it is the former J.P. Morgan headquarters 23 Wall Street and 15 Broad Street, which has been converted into a luxury condominium. Other buildings of note are the Broad Exchange Building at number 25, the Continental Bank Building at number 30 and the American Bank Note Company Building at number 70.\n\n\nThe Broad Street station ( trains) of the New York City Subway is located at the corner of Broad and Wall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4614696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4614696", "title": "Capitalization-weighted index", "text": "Capitalization-weighted index\n\nA capitalization-weighted (or \"cap-weighted\") index, also called a market-value-weighted index is a stock market index whose components are weighted according to the total market value of their outstanding shares. Every day an individual stock's price changes and thereby changes a stock index's value. The impact that individual stock's price change has on the index is proportional to the company's overall market value (the share price multiplied by the number of outstanding shares), in a capitalization-weighted index. In other types of indices, different ratios are used.\n\nFor example, the AMEX Composite Index (XAX) had more than 800 component stocks. The weighting of each stock constantly shifted with changes in the stock's price and the number of shares outstanding. The index fluctuates in line with the price move of the stocks.\n\nStock market indices are a type of economic index.\n\nThe formula underneath is a simple way of seeing the percent changes that your ETF (or any other shares of stock, for that matter) has gained (or lost). If an investor purchases 100 shares of AAPL at $1.00 and a month later the purchased AAPL is trading at $1.10, the investment yielded a 10% gain/return (($110/$100)-1=0.1, or 10%).\n\nformula_1\n\nA common version of capitalization weighting is the \"free-float\" weighting. With this method a \"float factor\" is assigned to each stock to account for the proportion of outstanding shares that are held by the general public, as opposed to \"closely held\" shares owned by the government, royalty, or company insiders (see float). For example, if for some stock 15% of shares are closely held, and the other 85% are publicly held, the float factor will be 0.85, by which the company's market capitalization will be multiplied before weighting its value against the rest of the index. In other words, the number of shares used for calculation is the number of shares \"floating\", rather than outstanding.\n\nAn index that is weighted in this manner is said to be \"float-adjusted\" or \"float-weighted\", in addition to being cap-weighted. For example, the S&P 500 index is both cap-weighted and float-adjusted.\n\nHistorically, in the United States, capitalization-weighted indices tended to use full weighting, i.e., all outstanding shares were included, while float-weighted indexing has been the norm in other countries, perhaps because of large cross-holdings or government ownership. More recently, many of the U.S. indices, such as the S&P 500, have been changed to a float-adjusted weighting which makes their calculation more consistent with non-U.S. indices.\n\nAn index may also be classified according to the method used to determine its price. In a price-weighted index such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the price of each component stock is the only consideration when determining the value of the index. Thus, price movement of even a single security will heavily influence the value of the index even though the dollar shift is less significant in a relatively high-value name. In a fundamentally weighted index, stocks are weighted by fundamental factors like sales or book value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2766095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2766095", "title": "Carroll Livingston Wainwright I", "text": "Carroll Livingston Wainwright I\n\nCarroll Livingston Wainwright (December 2, 1899 – July 6, 1967) was an artist.\n\nWainwright was born on December 2, 1899 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Stuyvesant Wainwright (1863–1930) and Caroline Smith Snowden (1865–1960). His siblings included Stuyvesant Wainwright (1891–1975) J. Howard Wainwright, and Loudon Snowden Wainwright (1898–1942). After his parent's divorce, his mother remarried to Dr. Carl F. Wolff (1864–1934), and his father remarried to Sarah Hughes.\n\nHe was a nephew of General Jonathan Mayhew Wainwright (1883–1953), a four star-general who was the hero of Bataan and commander of the U.S. forces in the Philippines during World War II. Through his brother, Loudon, he was the uncle of Loudon Wainwright Jr., and the grand-uncle of Loudon Wainwright III, the singer and songwriter, himself the father of Rufus Wainwright, Martha Wainwright, and Lucy Wainwright Roche.\n\nHis paternal grandparents were Margaret (née Livingston) Wainwright and John Howard Wainwright, who was the son of the Bishop of New York, Jonathan Mayhew Wainwright. His maternal grandparents were Elizabeth Robinson Smith (1841–1910) and Archibald Loudon Snowden (1835–1912), who served as U.S. Ambassador to Spain, Serbia, Romania and Greece. He was a direct descendant of Peter Stuyvesant, the last Dutch governor of New York.\n\nAfter his marriage in 1920, he became a Wall Street broker. In 1923, he left Wall Street and became a painter, continuing nearly the rest of his life. He focused his art on painting miniatures.\n\nIn 1927, the family moved to East Hampton, New York where they built an imposing house called \"Gulf Crest,\" that was valued at $350,000 in 1937.\n\nDuring World War I, he left the Pawling School, and enlisted in the U.S. Naval Reserve, where he served patrol boat duty. In 1942, Wainwright again enlisted, serving on an anti-submarine patrol sailing ship out of Greenport.\n\nOn May 27, 1920, Wainwright eloped and married 18 year-old Edith Catherine Gould (1900–1937). She was the daughter of millionaire George Jay Gould I (1864-1923) and Edith M. Kingdon (1864-1921). Before their divorce in 1932, they became the parents of:\n\n\nIn February 1931, he was committed to the Bloomingdale Hospital at White Plains by his brothers. In their suit, they claimed he had been subject to hallucinations since 1916, when he had pneumonia and an appendicitis operation. They claimed he had suffered breakdowns in 1916, 1923 and 1929 because of overwork and the strenuous demands of society. Three months later, he was released.\n\nAfter their divorce in January 1932, his ex-wife immediately married Sir Hector MacNeal, the Scottish shipowner. There was no property settlement.\n\nWainwright died in 1967 in East Hampton on Long Island.\n"}
{"id": "42345661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42345661", "title": "Clésio Andrade", "text": "Clésio Andrade\n\nClésio Soares de Andrade (born October 12, 1952) is a Brazilian politician and businessman. He represented Minas Gerais in the Federal Senate from 2011 to 2014. Previously, he was Vice-Governor of Minas Gerais from 2003 to 2006. He is a member of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party.\n\nAs president of the National Confederation of Transport (CNT) he has defended tax cuts for public transport corporations.\n"}
{"id": "17474450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17474450", "title": "Dey Street", "text": "Dey Street\n\nDey Street is a short street in Lower Manhattan, in New York City. It passes the west side of the World Trade Center site and the World Trade Center Transportation Hub. It runs for one block between Church Street and Broadway. It originally ran to West Street, but the western reaches were demolished to make way for the World Trade Center in the late 1960s. It now extends to Greenwich Street. 15 Dey Street is the site of the first transcontinental telephone call.\n\nThe origins of the streets name are rather ambiguous. It is possible that it was named after John Dies, who was in charge of building a fleet of batteaux for use against the French in 1755.\n\nAccording to estimations made by map makers, Dey Street did not exist in 1742. It appears in a map dated to 1767, documented as ‘Dyes Street’. It reached from Broadway to Greenwich Street, which ran along the edge of the Hudson River at that time. As the island was built outward with landfill, the street gradually lengthened.\n\nDey's or Dies Dock. (M-L18) On the Hudson River at Dey Street, built in 1743.\n\nBatteau or Battoe Street. (M-L18) The name refers to a type of boat used on inland waters. According to du Simitiere (1767), it was a commonly used name for what is now spelled Dey Street. In 1755 John Dies was in charge of building a fleet of batteaux for use against the French.\n\n"}
{"id": "18199221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18199221", "title": "Directors' duties", "text": "Directors' duties\n\nDirectors' duties are a series of statutory, common law and equitable obligations owed primarily by members of the board of directors to the corporation that employs them. It is a central part of corporate law and corporate governance. Directors' duties are analogous to duties owed by trustees to beneficiaries, and by agents to principals.\n\nAmong different jurisdictions, a number of similarities between the framework for directors' duties exist.\n\n\nDirectors have Fiduciary Duties under general law in Australia. They are:\n\nDirectors also have duties under Corporations Act 2001: \n\nThere is an important distinction between the general law and statute in that there are different consequences when it comes for breach\n\nIn Canada, a debate exists on the precise nature of directors' duties following the controversial landmark judgment in \"BCE Inc. v. 1976 Debentureholders\". This Supreme Court of Canada decision has raised questions as to the nature and extent to which directors owe a duty to non-shareholders. Scholarly literature has defined this as a \"tripartite fiduciary duty\", composed of (1) an overarching duty to the corporation, which contains two component duties — (2) a duty to protect shareholder interests from harm, and (3) a procedural duty of \"fair treatment\" for relevant stakeholder interests. This tripartite structure encapsulates the duty of directors to act in the \"best interests of the corporation, viewed as a good corporate citizen\".\n\n\n\nDirectors are also strictly charged to exercise their powers only for a proper purpose. For instance, were a director to issue a large number of new shares, not for the purposes of raising capital but to defeat a potential takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions that would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle should be capable of being abrogated in the company's constitution.\n\nDirectors must exercise their powers for a proper purpose. While in many instances an improper purpose is readily evident, such as a director looking to feather his or her own nest or divert an investment opportunity to a relative, such breaches usually involve a breach of the director's duty to act in good faith. Greater difficulties arise where the director, while acting in good faith, is serving a purpose that is not regarded by the law as proper.\n\nThe seminal authority in relation to what amounts to a proper purpose is the Privy Council decision of \"Howard Smith Ltd v. Ampol Ltd\". The case concerned the power of the directors to issue new shares. It was alleged that the directors had issued a large number of new shares purely to deprive a particular shareholder of his voting majority. The court rejected an argument that the power to issue shares could only be properly exercised to raise new capital as too narrow, and held that it would be a proper exercise of the director's powers to issue shares to a larger company to ensure the financial stability of the company, or as part of an agreement to exploit mineral rights owned by the company. If so, an incidental result (even desirable) that a shareholder lost his majority, or a takeover bid was defeated would not itself make the share issue improper. But if the sole purpose was to destroy a voting majority, or block a takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nNot all jurisdictions recognised the \"proper purpose\" duty as separate from the \"good faith\" duty however.\n\n\nThis represents a considerable departure from the traditional notion that directors' duties are owed only to the company. Previously in the United Kingdom, under the Companies Act 1985, protections for non-member stakeholders were considerably more limited (see e.g., s.309, which permitted directors to take into account the interests of employees but that could be enforced only by the shareholders, and not by the employees themselves. The changes have therefore been the subject of some criticism. Directors must act honestly and in \"bona fide\". The test is a subjective one—the directors must act in \"\"good faith\" in what they consider—not what the court may consider—is in the interests of the company...\" per Lord Greene MR. However, the directors may still be held to have failed in this duty where they fail to direct their minds to the question of whether in fact a transaction was in the best interests of the company.\n\nDifficult questions arise when treating the company too abstractly. For example, it may benefit a corporate group as a whole for a company to guarantee the debts of a \"sister\" company, even if there is no \"benefit\" to the company giving the guarantee. Similarly, conceptually at least, there is no benefit to a company in returning profits to shareholders by way of dividend. However, the more pragmatic approach illustrated in the Australian case of \"Mills v. Mills\" normally prevails:\n\n\"[directors are] not required by the law to live in an unreal region of detached altruism and to act in the vague mood of ideal abstraction from obvious facts which [sic] must be present to the mind of any honest and intelligent man when he exercises his powers as a director.\"\n\n\"money which [sic] is not theirs but the company’s, if they are spending it for the purposes which are reasonably incidental to the carrying on of the business of the company. That is the general doctrine. Bona fides cannot be the sole test, otherwise you might have a lunatic conducting the affairs of the company, and paying away its money with both hands in a manner perfectly bona fide yet perfectly irrational… It is for the directors to judge, provided it is a matter which is reasonably incidental to the carrying on of the business of the company… The law does not say that there are to be no cakes and ale, but there are to be no cakes and ale except such as are required for the benefit of the company.\"\n\n\n\nDirectors cannot, without the consent of the company, fetter their discretion in relation to the exercise of their powers, and cannot bind themselves to vote in a particular way at future board meetings. This is so even if there is no improper motive or purpose, and no personal advantage to the director.\n\nThis does not mean, however, that the board cannot agree to the company entering into a contract that binds the company to a certain course, even if certain actions in that course will require further board approval. The company remains bound, but the directors retain the discretion to vote against taking the future actions (although that may involve a breach by the company of the contract that the board previously approved).\n\nTraditionally, the level of care and skill a director must demonstrate has been framed largely with reference to the non-executive director. In \"Re City Equitable Fire Insurance Co\" [1925] Ch 407, it was expressed in purely subjective terms, where the court held that:\n\nHowever, this decision was based firmly in the older notions (see above) that prevailed at the time as to the mode of corporate decision making, and effective control residing in the shareholders; if they elected and put up with an incompetent decision maker, they should not have recourse to complain.\n\nHowever, a more modern approach has since developed, and in \"Dorchester Finance Co Ltd v Stebbing\" [1989] BCLC 498 the court held that the rule in \"Equitable Fire\" related only to skill, and not to diligence. With respect to diligence, what was required was:\n\nThis was a dual subjective and objective test, and one deliberately pitched at a higher level.\n\nMore recently, it has been suggested that both the tests of skill and diligence should be assessed objectively and subjectively; in the United Kingdom the statutory provisions relating to directors' duties in the new Companies Act 2006 have been codified on this basis.\n\n\nDirectors also owe strict duties not to permit any conflict of interest or conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the company. This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v. Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that,\n\n\"A corporate body can only act by agents, and it is, of course, the duty of those agents so to act as best to promote the interests of the corporation whose affairs they are conducting. Such agents have duties to discharge of a fiduciary nature towards their principal. And it is a rule of universal application that no one, having such duties to discharge, shall be allowed to enter into engagements in which he has, \"or can have\", a personal interest conflicting \"or which possibly may conflict\", with the interests of those whom he is bound to protect... So strictly is this principle adhered to that no question is allowed to be raised as to the fairness or unfairness of the contract entered into...\"\n\n\nAs fiduciaries, the directors may not put themselves in a position where their interests and duties conflict with the duties that they owe to the company. The law takes the view that good faith must not only be done, but must be manifestly seen to be done, and zealously patrols the conduct of directors in this regard; and will not allow directors to escape liability by asserting that his decision was in fact well founded. Traditionally, the law has divided conflicts of duty and interest into three sub-categories.\n\nBy definition, where a director enters into a transaction with a company, there is a conflict between the director's interest (to do well for himself out of the transaction) and his duty to the company (to ensure that the company gets as much as it can out of the transaction). This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v. Blaikie\" Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that:\n\n\"A corporate body can only act by agents, and it is, of course, the duty of those agents so to act as best to promote the interests of the corporation whose affairs they are conducting. Such agents have duties to discharge of a fiduciary nature towards their principal. And it is a rule of universal application that no one, having such duties to discharge, shall be allowed to enter into engagements in which he has, \"or can have\", a personal interest conflicting \"or which possibly may conflict\", with the interests of those whom he is bound to protect... So strictly is this principle adhered to that no question is allowed to be raised as to the fairness or unfairness of the contract entered into...\"\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle should be capable of being abrogated in the company's constitution.\n\nIn many countries there is also a statutory duty to declare interests in relation to any transactions, and the director can be fined for failing to make disclosure.\n\nDirectors must not, without the informed consent of the company, use for their own profit the company's assets, opportunities, or information. This prohibition is much less flexible than the prohibition against the transactions with the company, and attempts to circumvent it using provisions in the articles have met with limited success.\n\nIn \"Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver\" [1942] All ER 378 the House of Lords, in upholding what was regarded as a wholly unmeritorious claim by the shareholders, held that:\n\nAnd accordingly, the directors were required to disgorge the profits that they made, and the shareholders received their windfall.\n\nThe decision has been followed in several subsequent cases, and is now regarded as settled law.\n\nDirectors cannot, clearly, compete directly with the company without a conflict of interests arising. Similarly, they should not act as directors of competing companies, as their duties to each company would then conflict with each other.\n\n\nAs in most jurisdictions, the law provides for a variety of remedies in the event of a breach by the directors of their duties:\n\nS 176 A Duty not to accept benefits from third parties.\n\nA director must not accept financial or non financial benefits from third parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "8178352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178352", "title": "Draško Petrović", "text": "Draško Petrović\n\nDraško Petrović, MSc (; born 1965 in Belgrade) is a Serbian politician and businessman.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Belgrade's Law School before going on to obtain a master's degree from the Faculty of Transport at the same university.\n\nIn May 1990 he became one of the founding members of the Democratic Party's (DS) Youth Wing. In July 1992, he was amongst the group that left DS and led by Vojislav Koštunica founded the Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS). Between 1992 and 1997 he was a Member of the Serbian Parliament on the DSS list as part of the DEPOS coalition.\n\nFrom December 2000 until February 2008, Petrović was the CEO of Telekom Srbija, the biggest telecommunications company in Serbia. He was one of the longest serving CEOs of a state controlled company in Serbia and gained a reputation as an exceptional manager. He was succeeded at the post by Branko Radujko. Since March 2009 Draško has been appointed to the Democratic Party of Serbia (DSS) Economic Advisory Committee.\n"}
{"id": "40991582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40991582", "title": "East forum Berlin", "text": "East forum Berlin\n\nEvery year, the east forum Berlin brings together opinion leaders from the political and business worlds in the East and the West to discuss challenges and opportunities faced by the economic area from Lisbon to Vladivostok and beyond. It was founded in 2013.\nThe overall aim of the east forum Berlin is to facilitate dialogue in order to overcome barriers for prosperity, to exchange know-how and intensify networks. In addition, this international event is an opportunity to present Berlin as a vibrant location of political and economic debate. \neast forum Berlin 2016 took place during Germany's OSCE Chairmanship in the middle of new deadlocks and new dynamics that characterise the transforming economic and political realities in the region from Europe to Asia. The two opposing trends are embedded in new division lines leading to an unfamiliar status quo of alienation. Secondly, they are surrounded by recently formed alliances consisting of as yet poorly known stakeholders, which create new spheres of influence. These dynamics offer potential for growth but also involve geopolitical and geo-economic challenges for all stakeholders in the region.\n\nThe east forum Berlin has been founded by Achim Oelgarth, Rainer Lindner as well as Ivonne Bollow and is organized by UniCredit, Metro Group, and the Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations () in cooperation with the Federal State of Berlin. Since 2016 and DIHK have joined as well. Media partners are eastonline and Ost-Ausschuss Informationen. Participation is by invitations only, which are extended to representatives from politics and business.\n\n"}
{"id": "2061965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2061965", "title": "Economic integration", "text": "Economic integration\n\nEconomic integration is the unification of economic policies between different states through the partial or full abolition of tariff and non-tariff restrictions on trade taking place among them prior to their integration. This is meant in turn to lead to lower prices for distributors and consumers with the goal of increasing the level of welfare, while leading to an increase of economic productivity of the states.\n\nThe trade stimulation effects intended by means of economic integration are part of the contemporary economic Theory of the Second Best: where, in theory, the best option is free trade, with free competition and no trade barriers whatsoever. Free trade is treated as an idealistic option, and although realized within certain developed states, economic integration has been thought of as the \"second best\" option for global trade where barriers to full free trade exist.\n\nIn economics the word \"integration\" was first employed in industrial organisation to refer to combinations of business firms through economic agreements, cartels, concerns, trusts, and mergers—horizontal integration referring to combinations of competitors, vertical integration to combinations of suppliers with customers. In the current sense of combining separate economies into larger economic regions, the use of the word \"integration\" can be traced to the 1930s and 1940s. Fritz Machlup credits Eli Heckscher, Herbert Gaedicke and Gert von Eyern as the first users of the term \"economic integration\" in its current sense. According to Machlup, such usage first appears in the 1935 English translation of Hecksher's 1931 book \"Merkantilismen\" (\"Mercantilism\" in English), and independently in Gaedicke's and von Eyern's 1933 two-volume study \"Die produktionswirtschaftliche Integration Europas: Eine Untersuchung über die Aussenhandelsverflechtung der europäischen Länder\".\n\nThere are economic as well as political reasons why nations pursue economic integration. The economic rationale for the increase of trade between member states of economic unions rests on the supposed productivity gains from integration. This is one of the reasons for the development of economic integration on a global scale, a phenomenon now realized in continental economic blocs such as ASEAN, NAFTA, SACN, the European Union, and the Eurasian Economic Community; and proposed for intercontinental economic blocks, such as the Comprehensive Economic Partnership for East Asia and the Transatlantic Free Trade Area.\n\nComparative advantage refers to the ability of a person or a country to produce a particular good or service at a lower marginal and opportunity cost over another. Comparative advantage was first described by David Ricardo who explained it in his 1817 book \"On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\" in an example involving England and Portugal. In Portugal it is possible to produce both wine and cloth with less labour than it would take to produce the same quantities in England. However the relative costs of producing those two goods are different in the two countries. In England it is very hard to produce wine, and only moderately difficult to produce cloth. In Portugal both are easy to produce. Therefore, while it is cheaper to produce cloth in Portugal than England, it is cheaper still for Portugal to produce excess wine, and trade that for English cloth. Conversely England benefits from this trade because its cost for producing cloth has not changed but it can now get wine at a lower price, closer to the cost of cloth. The conclusion drawn is that each country can gain by specializing in the good where it has comparative advantage, and trading that good for the other.\n\nEconomies of scale refers to the cost advantages that an enterprise obtains due to expansion. There are factors that cause a producer’s average cost per unit to fall as the scale of output is increased. Economies of scale is a long run concept and refers to reductions in unit cost as the size of a facility and the usage levels of other inputs increase. Economies of scale is also a justification for economic integration, since some economies of scale may require a larger market than is possible within a particular country — for example, it would not be efficient for Liechtenstein to have its own car maker, if they would only sell to their local market. A lone car maker may be profitable, however, if they export cars to global markets in addition to selling to the local market.\n\nBesides these economic reasons, the primary reasons why economic integration has been pursued in practise are largely political. The \"Zollverein\" or German Customs Union of 1867 paved the way for partial German unification under Prussian leadership in 1871. \"Imperial free trade\" was (unsuccessfully) proposed in the late 19th century to strengthen the loosening ties within British Empire. The European Economic Community was created to integrate France and Germany's economies to the point that they would find it impossible to go to war with each other.\n\nThe degree of economic integration can be categorized into seven stages:\n\n\nThese differ in the degree of unification of economic policies, with the highest one being the completed economic integration of the states, which would most likely involve political integration as well.\n\nA \"free trade area\" (FTA) is formed when at least two states partially or fully abolish custom tariffs on their inner border. To exclude regional exploitation of zero tariffs within the FTA there is a rule of certificate of origin for the goods originating from the territory of a member state of an FTA.\n\nA \"customs union\" introduces unified tariffs on the exterior borders of the union (CET, common external tariffs). A \"monetary union\" introduces a shared currency. A \"common market\" add to a FTA the free movement of services, capital and labor.\n\nAn \"economic union\" combines customs union with a common market. A \"fiscal union\" introduces a shared fiscal and budgetary policy. In order to be successful the more advanced integration steps are typically accompanied by unification of economic policies (tax, social welfare benefits, etc.), reductions in the rest of the trade barriers, introduction of supranational bodies, and gradual moves towards the final stage, a \"political union\".\n\nThe framework of the theory of economic integration was laid out by Jacob Viner (1950) who defined the trade creation and trade diversion effects, the terms introduced for the change of interregional flow of goods caused by changes in customs tariffs due to the creation of an economic union. He considered trade flows between two states prior and after their unification, and compared them with the rest of the world. His findings became and still are the foundation of the theory of economic integration. The next attempts to enlarge the static analysis towards three states+world (Lipsey, et al.) were not as successful.\n\nThe basics of the theory were summarized by the Hungarian economist Béla Balassa in the 1960s. As economic integration increases, the barriers of trade between markets diminish. Balassa believed that supranational common markets, with their free movement of economic factors across national borders, naturally generate demand for further integration, not only economically (via monetary unions) but also politically—and, thus, that economic communities naturally evolve into political unions over time.\n\nThe dynamic part of international economic integration theory, such as the dynamics of trade creation and trade diversion effects, the Pareto efficiency of factors (labor, capital) and value added, mathematically was introduced by Ravshanbek Dalimov. This provided an interdisciplinary approach to the previously static theory of international economic integration, showing what effects take place due to economic integration, as well as enabling the results of the non-linear sciences to be applied to the dynamics of international economic integration.\n\nEquations describing:\nwere successfully applied towards:\nThe straightforward conclusion from the findings is that one may use the accumulated knowledge of the exact and natural sciences (physics, biodynamics, and chemical kinetics) and apply them towards the analysis and forecasting of economic dynamics.\n\nDynamic analysis has started with a new definition of gross domestic product (GDP), as a difference between aggregate revenues of sectors and investment (a modification of the value added definition of the GDP). It was possible to analytically prove that all the states gain from economic unification, with larger states receiving less growth of GDP and productivity, and vice versa concerning the benefit to lesser states. Although this fact has been empirically known for decades, now it was also shown as being mathematically correct.\n\nA qualitative finding of the dynamic method is the similarity of a coherence policy of economic integration and a mixture of previously separate liquids in a retort: they finally get one colour and become one liquid. Economic space (tax, insurance and financial policies, customs tariffs, etc.) all finally become the same along with the stages of economic integration.\n\nAnother important finding is a direct link between the dynamics of macro- and micro-economic parameters such as the evolution of industrial clusters and the GDP's temporal and spatial dynamics. Specifically, the dynamic approach analytically described the main features of the theory of competition summarized by Michael Porter, stating that industrial clusters evolve from initial entities gradually expanding within their geographic proximity. It was analytically found that the geographic expansion of industrial clusters goes along with raising their productivity and technological innovation.\n\nDomestic savings rates of the member states were observed to strive to one magnitude, and the dynamic method of forecasting this phenomenon has also been developed. Overall dynamic picture of economic integration has been found to look quite similar to unification of previously separate basins after opening intraboundary sluices, where instead of water the value added (revenues) of entities of member states interact.\n\nAmong the requirements for successful development of economic integration are \"permanency\" in its evolution (a gradual expansion and over time a higher degree of economic/political unification); \"a formula for sharing joint revenues\" (customs duties, licensing etc.) between member states (e.g., per capita); \"a process for adopting decisions\" both economically and politically; and \"a will to make concessions\" between developed and developing states of the union.\n\nA \"coherence\" policy is a must for the permanent development of economic unions, being also a property of the economic integration process. Historically the success of the European Coal and Steel Community opened a way for the formation of the European Economic Community (EEC) which involved much more than just the two sectors in the ECSC. So a coherence policy was implemented to use a different speed of economic unification (coherence) applied both to economic sectors and economic policies. Implementation of the coherence principle in adjusting economic policies in the member states of economic block causes economic integration effects.\n\nWith economics crisis started in 2008 the global economy has started to realize quite a few initiatives on regional level.\nIt is unification between the EU and US, expansion of Eurasian Economic Community (now Eurasia Economic Union) by Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. It is also the creation of BRICS with the bank of its members, and notably high motivation of creating competitive economic structures within Shanghai Organization, also creating the bank with many multi-currency instruments applied. Engine for such fast and dramatic changes was insufficiency of global capital, while one has to mention obvious large political discrepancies witnessed in 2014-2015. Global economy has to overcome this by easing the moves of capital and labor, while this is impossible unless the states will find common point of views in resolving cultural and politic differences which pushed it so far as of now.\n\nGlobalization refers to the increasing global relationships of culture, people, and economic activity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36937551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36937551", "title": "Elias Elia (businessman)", "text": "Elias Elia (businessman)\n\nElias Elia is a Greek Cypriot businessman whose profile made headlines after multiple airlines across Europe collapsed. He was the owner of E-Clear, a $ billion company that handled payments mostly for the travel industry.\n\nElias was successful in the travel payment industry. In an interview he said, \"We're here today to expand on the collaborations with airlines\".\n\nHe tried to prop up another company after buying E-Clear back from its administrators. A report claimed that Elia bought a brand-new £135,000 Ferrari in the spring of 2008 and a £155,000 Rolls-Royce Phantom, in May of the same year.\n\nLinks were found from Elias to Elian properties and the Allbury Travel Group, both of which also went into administration soon after E-Clear's demise.\n"}
{"id": "2503676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503676", "title": "Financial distress", "text": "Financial distress\n\nFinancial distress is a term in corporate finance used to indicate a condition when promises to creditors of a company are broken or honored with difficulty. If financial distress cannot be relieved, it can lead to bankruptcy. Financial distress is usually associated with some costs to the company; these are known as \"costs of financial distress\".\n\nA common example of a cost of financial distress are bankruptcy costs. These direct costs include auditors' fees, legal fees, management fees and other payments. Cost of financial distress can occur even if bankruptcy is avoided (indirect costs).\n\nFinancial distress in companies requires management attention and might lead to reduced attention on the operations of the company.\n\nAnother source of indirect costs of financial distress are higher costs of capital as usually banks increase the interest rates if a state of financial distress occurs.\n\nIf high debt burden is the cause of financial distress, the company can undergo a debt restructuring. If operational issues are the reason for the distress, the company can negotiate a payment holiday with its creditors and improve operations to be able to service its debt.\n\n"}
{"id": "6668894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6668894", "title": "Ford R. Bryan", "text": "Ford R. Bryan\n\nFord Richardson Bryan (May 13, 1912 – May 14, 2004) was a member of the Ford family of Dearborn, who provided authentic historical information about the Ford family based almost entirely the Ford Archives of Henry Ford Museum and associated Greenfield Village. \n\nBorn in Crystal, Michigan, Bryan graduated from Eastern Michigan University in 1934; he then received his master's degree from University of Michigan in 1941. From family bibles, family legend, correspondence, and the historical archives of Dearborn, he traced the family history from England to Ireland, then to America, and in 1832 to the wilderness of the Michigan Territory, much of which was included in his book \"The Fords of Dearborn\" () includes genealogical tables and more than 125 illustrations depicting family members, their farms, homes, and their relationships. Bryan joined Ford Motor Company as a spectrochemical analyst following World War II. Over the course of thirty-three years, he would move on to the Ford Scientific Laboratory, publishing more than seventy technical papers on optical spectroscopy. Following his retirement from Ford, he became a volunteer at the Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Village. His yen for writing led him to the Ford Archives, where he found a gold mine of material about his own family and about his favorite subject, Henry Ford. \n\nBryan wrote many books about Henry Ford including:\n"}
{"id": "40753120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40753120", "title": "Foreign Direct investment in the banking sector of emerging markets", "text": "Foreign Direct investment in the banking sector of emerging markets\n\nDespite the increasing literature related to the topics of Foreign Direct Investment(FDI) in manufacturing sector of European transitional economies, the ones related to FDI in the banking sector have received little attention. Nevertheless, over the past years numerous studies and theories have emerged in an attempt to explain the motives behind foreign bank entry in CEE countries. Although there is not a universally accepted theory explaining the motives behind a Banks decision to start it operations abroad several reasons are addressed in the existing literature.). Research has revealed factors like the degree of economic integration between the home and host country, market opportunities available and entry restrictions like the factors that affect a banks decision to start its operations on a foreign market.\n\nOne of the most important reason that affects a banks decision to entry a foreign market is to “follow the customer” also called the defensive hypothesis. Foreign banks building upon the expertise in their home country they can differentiate themselves from their competitors in the host country by offering complex and specialized services to their home country corporate customers. Years of long-lasting relationship have provided the banks with crucial information about the unique financial needs that their clients have, the knowledge of which is unavailable to host country institutions. In addition, through this relationship banks are able to develop a competitive advantage stemming through the lower marginal costs that those banks experience when dealing with loan renewals over their local competitors. Unlike manufacturing where knowledge can be protected through patterns and other means, commercial intelligence can be easily gained by any bank with an interest in starting its operations in specific market or industries. In addition, letting other financial institutions to develop a relationship with its existing corporate clients can result in the loss of market share in the banks home county. In order to prevent this from happening banks are obliged to follow the client by opening an office (branch, subsidiary) abroad themselves in order to defend their unique bank client relationship.\n\nThe attractiveness of the host country is another motive that according to scholars drives foreign bank entry into a foreign market. According to this argument a number of factors like GDP, size, distance, financial development, and profit opportunities are identified as the ones that shape the overall attractiveness of the market.\n\nForeign banks will to engage themselves in banking FDI may have long existed, however the ability to do so was restricted by barriers to entry that existed in many Emerging Markets Economies until recently. Only after the authorities of those countries in the mid-1990s begun to actively pursue a policy aiming to the privatisation of their domestic banking institutions through the participation of foreign investors’ foreign bank entry was allowed. The effects of host country regulations on foreign bank entry are straightforward since restrictions on foreign bank present generally limits competition and protect inefficient domestic banks. Since the majority of those countries are now in a transition process towards a democratic market economy the degree to which the reform process has taken place (level of economic reforms, and political freedom) is an important consideration that foreign banks are taken into account before entering the country. Countries that have successfully introduced reforms aiming at establishing transparent and enforceable rules regarding their financial markets are the ones that considered more attractive for foreign banks.\n"}
{"id": "3717133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3717133", "title": "Francis Gurney du Pont", "text": "Francis Gurney du Pont\n\nFrancis Gurney du Pont (May 27, 1850 – November 7, 1904) was the creator of smokeless gunpowder. Du Pont served as superintendent of the Upper and Lower Hagley Yards and later as general manager of Carney's Point, New Jersey, in 1891. His invention was assisted by cousin Pierre S. du Pont. His son was E. Paul du Pont, founder of Du Pont Motors.\n\nHe was the youngest son of Alexis I. du Pont and the grandson of E. I. du Pont.\n\nJoining the firm as partner in 1873, he became one of the three vice presidents. Even with the death of Eugene du Pont in 1902, Francis Du Pont declined the presidency of the firm due to ill health. He wanted to sell the company to competitor Laflin & Rand. A traditionalist, Du Pont mistrusted the modern business practices that he correctly believed the younger generation would implement at DuPont. He lost control to the company to Alfred I. du Pont, T. Coleman du Pont and Pierre S. du Pont in 1902 with the formation of the E. I du Pont de Nemours Company.\n\nHe died in 1904.\n\n"}
{"id": "22081576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22081576", "title": "George Mason II", "text": "George Mason II\n\nGeorge Mason II (16601716) was an early American planter and statesman. Mason was the grandfather of George Mason IV, a Founding Father of the United States.\n\nMason was born in 1660 at Accokeek plantation in Stafford County, Virginia. He was the only son of George Mason I and his first wife Mary French. He was the first of Virginia's Mason family to be born in British America.\n\nLike his father, Mason served as a colonel in the Stafford County militia and represented Stafford in the House of Burgesses. He also served as the county's sheriff and justice of the peace between 1699 and 1700. Mason also received funding from the county to build what was probably Stafford's first jail in 1690. Also between 1699 and 1700, Mason was county lieutenant of Stafford County, under General Nicholson, and was engaged in the defense of the Potomac region against Native Americans.\n\nIn 1691, the town of Marlborough was laid out on the same neck of land in the Potomac River that included Accokeek plantation. Mason was granted multiple lots in Marlborough and may have built a tavern there.\n\nMason sold Accokeek after his father's death and relocated to a plantation on Chopawamsic Creek which he named Chopawamsic. At Chopawamsic, Mason planted an orchard, grew tobacco, and raised sheep and cattle.\n\nMason married his cousin Mary Fowke, daughter of Gerard Fowke and Ann Thorogood, in 1688. The couple had the following children:\n\n\nMason married secondly to Elizabeth Waugh in Stafford County, Virginia in 1706. George and Elizabeth had one daughter:\n\n\nMason married for a third time to Sarah Taliaferro, daughter of Francis Taliaferro and Elizabeth Catlett, in 1710. George and Sarah had four children:\n\n\nMason died in 1716 in Port Tobacco, Charles County, Maryland. He was interred on a hillside with his father near the site of the old Accokeek estate near Accokeek Creek in Stafford County, Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "33441004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33441004", "title": "George Stonbely", "text": "George Stonbely\n\nGeorge N. Stonbely (born December 7, 1945) is an American advertising entrepreneur and civic leader known for his work and advocacy in New York's Times Square.\n\nBorn in 1945 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, New York, George N. Stonbely graduated from New York University in 1967. While still in college, he first volunteered then worked as a legislative researcher for Robert F. Kennedy, who was the United States Senator from New York at the time. Stonbely worked briefly in sales promotion and advertising for the \"New York Times\", then in 1975, he founded Spectacolor, Inc., an advertising company that pioneered the first full-color, computer-programmed, changeable message billboard. This groundbreaking innovation introduced the concept of selling \"time\" on billboards, rather than the customary practice of selling \"space\", a change that would pave the way for outdoor advertising to become a multibillion-dollar industry.\n\nThe first Spectacolor sign was installed at One Times Square, the building from which the world-famous Times Square Ball is dropped every New Year's Eve. Eventually more than 60 Spectacolor signs (including static signs, video displays, and 3D spectacular signs) were installed in Times Square, along with more than 50 Spectacolor systems in 30 cities in Europe, South America, the Middle East, and across the United States. In 1984, Spectacolor was chosen by the Marriott Corporation to develop the premiere signage on its new Marriott Marquis Hotel, the first of the developments that led to the rebirth of Times Square that began in the 1980s. The flagship sign, the Eastman Kodak Company's \"Kodarama\" display, signaled the return of corporate America to Times Square for the first time since the end of World War II. Soon Kodak was joined by Hertz, AT&T, JVC, Chock Full o' Nuts, Maxwell House Coffee Company, Planters Peanuts, and Wrigley, to name a few of the iconic brands that helped reestablish a mainstream marketing presence in Times Square.\n\nBy 2000, Spectacolor was the world leader in spectacular advertising, operating in over 30 cities around the globe. That year, Stonbely partnered with Arizona entrepreneur Karl Eller and Clear Channel Communications to form Clear Channel Spectacolor, which he sold to Clear Channel in 2006.\n\nA long-time Times Square advocate, Stonbely is a founding director of the Times Square Alliance and serves on the Mayor's Midtown Citizens Committee. He is also active in numerous international and local charitable organizations, including UNICEF, Partnership for a Drug Free America, and the Greater New York Boy Scouts. He serves on the Board of Directors of Inside Broadway and The Town Hall.\n\nUpon his death in 1999, legendary outdoor advertising designer Douglas Leigh willed Stonbely his famous lighted snowflake, which has been suspended above the intersection of Fifth Avenue and 57th Street in Manhattan every holiday season since 1984. In 2001, Stonbely dedicated the snowflake to UNICEF, for which more than $50 million has been raised since the UNICEF Snowflake Ball gala was launched in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "47623441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47623441", "title": "Herbert Louis", "text": "Herbert Louis\n\nHerbert Johnson \"Tim\" Louis (April 22, 1928 – February 16, 2016) was an American orthopedic surgeon and billionaire heir.\n\nHerbert Johnson Louis was born on April 22, 1928, in Evanston, Illinois, the son of Henrietta Johnson Louis and John Jeffry Louis, and the great grandson of the S. C. Johnson & Son company founder Samuel Curtis Johnson, Sr.. He was educated at Deerfield Academy, and Northwestern University Medical School in Chicago. He served in the United States Army His brother John J. Louis, Jr. (1925–1995), was the US Ambassador to the United Kingdom.\n\nLouis was an orthopedic surgeon.\n\nAs of August 2015, he had a net worth of $2.7 billion.\n\nIn 1950, Louis married Julie deLescaille, his college sweetheart. They had six children, Henry \"Hank\" Louis, Margaret \"Peggy\" Moreland, Clifton \"Clif\" Louis, Carrie Hulburd, Steven Samuel \"Steve\" Louis, and Timothy \"Tim\" Louis. They lived in Phoenix, Arizona, where they helped to found the Phoenix Children's Hospital in the 1980s.\n\nHe died at his home in Paradise Valley on February 16, 2016. He was survived by his wife Julie, their six children, 22 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "548739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548739", "title": "Hoffmann-La Roche", "text": "Hoffmann-La Roche\n\nF. Hoffmann-La Roche AG is a Swiss multinational healthcare company that operates worldwide under two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. Its holding company, Roche Holding AG, has bearer shares listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange. The company headquarters are located in Basel.\n\nThe company controls the American biotechnology company Genentech, which is a wholly owned affiliate, and the Japanese biotechnology company Chugai Pharmaceuticals, as well as the United States-based Ventana. Roche's revenues during fiscal year 2016 were 50.58 billion Swiss francs, or approximately US$51 billion. Roche is the third-largest pharmaceutical company worldwide.\nDescendants of the founding Hoffmann and Oeri families own slightly over half of the bearer shares with voting rights (a pool of family shareholders 45%, and Maja Oeri a further 5% apart), with Swiss pharma firm Novartis owning a further third of its shares. Roche is one of the few companies increasing their dividend every year, for 2016 as the 30th consecutive year. F. Hoffmann-La Roche is a full member of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA).\n\nFounded in 1896 by Fritz Hoffmann-La Roche, the company was early on known for producing various vitamin preparations and derivatives. In 1934, it became the first company to mass-produce synthetic vitamin C, under the brand name Redoxon. In 1957 it introduced the class of tranquilizers known as benzodiazepines (with Valium and Rohypnol being the best known members). It manufactures and sells several cancer drugs and is a leader in this field. In 1956, the first antidepressant, iproniazid, was accidentally created during an experiment while synthesizing isoniazid. Originally, it had been intended to create a more efficient drug at combatting Tuberculosis. Iproniazid, however, revealed to have its own benefits; some people felt it made them feel happier. It was withdrawn from the market in the early 1960s due to toxic side-effects.\n\nIn 1976, an accident at a chemical factory in Seveso, Italy, owned by a subsidiary of Roche, caused a large dioxin contamination; see Seveso disaster. In 1982, the United States arm of the company acquired Biomedical Reference Laboratories for US$163.5 million. That company dated from the late 1960s, and was located in Burlington, North Carolina. That year Hoffmann–La Roche then merged it with all of its laboratories, and incorporated the merged company as Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. in Burlington. By the early 1990s, Roche Biomedical became one of the largest clinical laboratory networks in the United States, with 20 major laboratories and US$600 million in sales.\n\nRoche has also produced various HIV tests and antiretroviral drugs. It bought the patents for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique in 1992. In 1995 the era of highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) was initiated by the United States FDA's approval of Hoffman LaRoche's HIV protease inhibitor saquinavir. Within 2 years of its approval (and that of ritonavir 4 months later) annual deaths from AIDS in the United States fell from over 50,000 to approximately 18,000 On 28 April 1995 Hoffmann–La Roche sold Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. to National Health Laboratories Holdings Inc. (which then changed its name to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings). Roche acquired Syntex in 1994 and Chugai Pharmaceuticals in 2002.\n\nOseltamivir is considered to be the primary antiviral drug used to combat avian influenza, commonly known as the bird flu. Roche is the only drug company authorized to manufacture the drug, which was discovered by Gilead Sciences. Roche purchased the rights to the drug in 1996 and in 2005 settled a royalty dispute, agreeing to pay Gilead tiered royalties of 14–22% of annual net sales without adjusting the payments for manufacturing costs, as had been allowedin the original licensing agreement.\n\nOn 20 October 2005, Hoffmann–La Roche decided to license other companies to manufacture Oseltamivir.\n\nAlso in 2005, Roche acquired the Swiss company GlycArt Biotechnology in order to acquire technology to afucosylate antibodies; one of its products in development was obinutuzumab, which gained FDA approval in November 2013 for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.\n\nOn 22 January 2008, Roche acquired Ventana Medical Systems for $3.4 billion. On 2 January 2009, Roche acquired Memory Pharmaceuticals Corp. On 26 March, Roche acquired Genentech for $46.8 billion.\n\nOn 12 March 2009 Roche agreed to fully acquire Genentech, in which it had held a majority stake since 1990, after 8 months of negotiations. As a result of the Genentech acquisition, Roche closed its Palo Alto based research facilities and moved them to their campus that straddles the border between Clifton, New Jersey and Nutley, New Jersey while Roche's United States headquarters, located on the site since 1929, was moved to Genentech's facility in South San Francisco. Genentech became a wholly owned subsidiary group of Roche on 25 March 2009.\n\nOn 13 April, Roche acquired Medingo Ltd., for $160 million. In August, Roche acquired BioImagene, Inc., for $100 million. \n\nIn 2011, the company received the ISPE Facility of the Year Award for Process Innovation for Roche’s \"MyDose\" Clinical Supply project. In March 2011, Roche acquired PVT Probenverteiltechnik GmbH for up to €85 million. In July 2010, Roche acquired mtm laboratories AG for up to 190 million EUR. On October, Roche acquired Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for $230 million. In December, Roche announced it would acquire Munich-based Verum Diagnostica GmbH, gaining entry to the fastest-growing field in the coagulation diagnostics market.\n\nOn 26 June 2012, Roche announced the closure of the Nutley/Clifton campus, which was completed in 2013. The property is in the process of remediation. \n\nIn July 2013, Roche Diagnostics acquired blood diagnostics company Constitution Medical Inc. for $220 million. Later, in September, Genentech announced it would acquire Arrayit Corporation.\n\nOn 7 April 2014, Roche announced its intention to acquire IQuum for up to $450 million, as well as the rights to an experimental drug (ORY-1001) from Spanish company Oryzon Genomics for $21 million and up to $500 million in milestone payments. On 2 June, Roche announced its intention to acquire Genia Technologies Inc. for up to $350 million. In August 2014, the company agreed to purchase Californian-based pharmaceutical firm InterMune for $8.3 billion, at $74 a share this represents a 38% premium over the final share closing price, as well as Santaris Pharma A/S for $450 million. In December 2014, the company acquired next-generation sequencing processing company Bina Technologies for an undisclosed sum and Dutalys GmbH a developer of next-generation anti-bodies.\n\nOn 16 January 2015, the company announced that they would acquire Trophos for €470 million ($543 million) in order to increase the company's neuromuscular disease presence. The deal will centre on the Phase II and III spinal muscular atrophy drug olesoxime (TRO19622).In April 2015, Roche acquired CAPP Medical, and its chief development of technology for cancer screening and monitoring via the detection of circulating tumor DNA.\n\nIn August, the company announced its intention to acquire GeneWEAVE BioSciences, Inc. for up to $425 million in order to strengthen its microbial diagnostics business. Days later the company acquired Kapa Biosystems, Inc. focussing on next generation sequencing and polymerase chain reaction applications. In October 2015, the company acquired Adheron Therapeutics for $105 million (plus up to $475 million in milestone payments).\n\nIn January 2016, the company announced it would acquire Tensha Therapeutics for $115 million upfront, with $420 million in contingent payments.\n\nIn January 2017, the company acquired ForSight VISION4. In June, the company acquired the diabetes management platform, mySugr GmbH for an undisclosed price. In November Roche acquired Viewics, Inc. In late December the company announced it would acquire Ignyta Inc, expanding its global oncology business.\n\nIn February 2018, Roche announced it would acquire Flatiron Health, a business specialising in US cancer data analytics, for $1.9 billion. In June of the same year the company announced it would acquire the outstanding shares of Foundation Medicine for $2.4 billion ($137 per share). Later in September Roche announced its intention to acquire Tusk Therapeutics for up to €655 million ($759 million) expanding Roche's oncology pipeline. Tusk announced that the anti-CD38 antibody it is developing will be spun off to form a new company, Black Belt Therapeutics. In late November, the company announced that Genentech would acquire Jecure Therapeutics, gaining access to Jecure's portfolio of NLRP3 inhibitors developed to fight inflammatory diseases like non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and liver fibrosis.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nHoffmann-La Roche is strong in the field pharmaceuticals for cancer treatment, against virus diseases and for treatment of metabolic diseases. The company is the world's largest spender in pharmaceutical R&D.<br>\n\nDrugs produced by Roche include:\n\nDiabetes management products produced by Roche under the Accu-Chek brand include Accu-Chek Mobile, Accu-Chek Aviva, Accu-Chek Compact Plus, Accu-Chek Aviva Expert, Accu-Chek Active, Accu-Chek Advantage, Accu-Chek Performa, Accu-Chek Aviva Nano, Accu-Chek Performa Nano blood glucose monitors. Accu-Chek Spirit and Accu-Chek Combo insulin pumps. Accu-Chek 360 and SmartPix diabetes management software.\n\nOther products include:\n\n\nStanley Adams, Roche's World Product Manager in Basel, contacted the European Economic Community in 1973 with evidence that Roche had been breaking antitrust laws, engaging in price fixing and market sharing for vitamins with its competitors. Roche was fined accordingly, but a bungle on the part of the EEC allowed the company to discover that it was Adams who had blown the whistle. He was arrested for unauthorised disclosure — an offence under Swiss law — and imprisoned. His wife, having learnt that he might face decades in jail, committed suicide.\n\nIn 1999 the firm pleaded guilty to participation in a worldwide conspiracy to raise and fix prices for vitamins sold in the US and globally. Hoffmann-La Roche paid $500 million in criminal fines to the United States.\n\nIn addition to internal research and development activities F. Hoffmann–La Roche is also involved in publicly funded collaborative research projects, with other industrial and academic partners. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox. The company is expanding its activities in joint research projects within the framework of the Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "789973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789973", "title": "Independent contractor", "text": "Independent contractor\n\nAn independent contractor is a natural person, business, or corporation that provides goods or services to another entity under terms specified in a contract or within a verbal agreement. Unlike an employee, an independent contractor does not work regularly for an employer but works as and when required, during which time he or she may be subject to law of agency. Independent contractors are usually paid on a freelance basis. Contractors often work through a limited company or franchise, which they themselves own, or may work through an umbrella company.\n\nIn the United States, any company or organization engaged in a trade or business that pays more than $600 to an independent contractor in one year is required to report this to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as well as to the contractor, using Form 1099-MISC. This form is merely a report of the money paid; independent contractors do not have income taxes withheld like regular employees.\n\nThe distinction between independent contractor and employee is an important one in the United States, as the costs for business owners to maintain employees are significantly higher than the costs associated with hiring independent contractors, due to federal and state requirements for employers to pay FICA (Social Security and Medicare taxes) and unemployment taxes on received income for employees. Likewise, employees are protected from being fired without cause, and if fired or let go for other reasons are entitled to unemployment benefits, whereas independent contractors have neither protection nor entitlement. Employees are also entitled to receive overtime pay for work performed over the 40-hour-per-week standard, whereas independent contractors may work any number of hours (including far above this standard) with no change in pay.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the IRS methodically began to look for employers who were misclassifying employees as independent contractors, and has since obtained billions of dollars in Social Security back taxes. Recently, worker classification initiatives have been a top priority for the IRS, the Department of Labor, and state agencies. In 2011, the IRS and the Department of Labor entered into a memorandum of understanding in an effort to jointly increase worker misclassification audits.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has offered the following guidelines to distinguish employees from independent contractors:\n\nThe IRS, for federal income tax, applies a \"right to control test\" which considers the nature of the working relationship. They highlight three general aspects of the employment arrangement:\n\n\nIn general, their criteria parallel those of the Supreme Court in sentiment. They include guidelines such as the amount of instruction, training, integration, use of assistants, length of professional relationship, regularity of work, location of work, payment schedule, source of funds for business expenditures, right to quit, and financial risk more typically seen with each work category. In their framework, independent contractors retain control over schedule and hours worked, jobs accepted, and performance monitoring. They also can have a major investment in equipment, furnish their own supplies, provide their own insurance, repairs, and other expenses related to their business. They may also perform a unique service that is not in the normal course of business of the employer. This contrasts with employees, who usually work at the schedule required by the employer, and whose performance the employer directly supervises. Independent contractors can also work for multiple firms, and offer their services to the general public.\n\nThe distinction between independent contractors and employees is not always clear, and continues to evolve. For example, some independent contractors may work for a number of different organizations throughout the year, while others retain independent contractor status although they work for the same organization the entire year. Other companies, for example in the freight transport industry, specify the schedule for the independent contractor, require purchase of vehicles from the company and prohibit work for other companies.\n\nIn July 2015, the U.S. Department of Labor issued new guidelines on the misclassification of employees as independent contractors. \"A worker who is economically dependent on an employer is suffered or permitted to work by the employer. Thus, applying the economic realities test in view of the expansive definition of \"employ\" under the Act, most workers are employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act.\"\n\nExamples of occupations where independent contractor arrangements are typical:\nIndependent contracting has both benefits and drawbacks to contractors.\n\n\nFirms in the sharing economy such as Uber can gain substantial advantages via the misclassification of employees as independent contractors.\n\n\nThe employer of an independent contractor is generally not held vicariously liable for the tortious acts and omissions of the contractor, because the control and supervision found in an employer–employee or principal–agent relationship is lacking. However, vicarious liability will be imposed in some circumstances:\n\nDue to the higher expense of maintaining employees, many employers needing to transition from independent contractors to employees may find the switch difficult. There is a transitional status for employees as an alternative to independent contracting known as being a statutory employee. Statutory employees are less expensive to hire than classic employees because the employer does not have to pay unemployment tax. However, they are more expensive than independent contractors because Social Security and Medicare taxes must be paid on wages. Similarly to independent contractors, statutory employees can deduct their trade or business expenses from their W2 earnings.\n\nA growing number of workers do not neatly fit the government's categorizations of independent contractors and statutory employees, and are increasingly being classified as dependent contractors. Some of these contingent workforce—independent contractors, temporary workers, and part-time workers, who work when and for how long they want, such as those who work for such companies as Uber, Handybook, Inc., and CrowdFlower—have filed lawsuits that argue that companies that substantially control workers' work and behaviors while working (such as at Handybook, Inc.: when to knock on customers' doors vs. ring the doorbells, and how to use the customers' bathrooms) should be covered by minimum-wage and overtime rules under the Fair Labor Standards Act, as well as receive other traditional employee protections. Wilma Liebman, former chairperson of the National Labor Relations Board, has observed that Canada and Germany have such protections in place for contingent workers. And UK Prime Minister David Cameron has appointed an overseer for freelance workers in that country, to determine how the government should support freelance workers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1251109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251109", "title": "Jacqueline Mars", "text": "Jacqueline Mars\n\nJacqueline Mars (born October 10, 1939) is an American heiress and investor. She is the daughter of Audrey Ruth (Meyer) and Forrest Mars, Sr., and granddaughter of Frank C. Mars, founders of the American candy company Mars, Incorporated. As of June 2018, Mars was ranked by \"Forbes\" as the 38th richest person in the world, with a net worth of $23.2 billion.\n\nJacqueline Mars was born on October 10, 1939. She attended and graduated from the boarding school Miss Hall's School in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1961 with a degree in anthropology.\n\nMars is a heiress to Mars, Inc. shares. As a member of the Mars family, Mars' shares of Mars, Incorporated and other assets were estimated by \"Forbes\" magazine in January 2018 to be worth $27.8 billion, making her the 17th richest American, and #22 on its list of \"The World's Billionaires\". Mars was active in Mars, Inc. from 1982, when she joined the company as Food Product Group President, until her retirement in 2001.\n\nMars married David H. Badger in 1961. They had three children: Alexandra Badger born , Stephen M. Badger born , and Christa Badger born . She divorced Badger in 1984. She married Hank Vogel in 1986, with whom she reside in Bedminster, New Jersey; they divorced in 1994.\n\nShe is a trustee of the US Equestrian Team, and owns a working organic farm, which is protected by the Land Trust of Virginia. She sits on the board of directors for the Washington National Opera, the National Sporting Library and Fine Arts Museum. Mars also sits on the National Advisory Council of the Journey through Hallowed Ground, a foundation promoting American heritage in the region stretching from Gettysburg, Pennsylvania to Thomas Jefferson's Monticello. Mars is a routine donor to the League of Conservation Voters. Mars received the inaugural Foundation for the National Archives' Heritage Award.\n\nOn October 4, 2013, Mars was involved in a car accident on U.S. Route 50 in Aldie, near her home in The Plains in Northern Virginia. Her vehicle crossed the highway center line and struck a Chrysler minivan carrying six passengers. One person died at the scene, while another was pregnant and subsequently miscarried. Mars was charged with reckless driving, and told a witness after the accident that she had fallen asleep at the wheel. Mars subsequently pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor charge of reckless driving, with tests having revealed no drugs, alcohol or medications in her system that could have caused a blackout.\n"}
{"id": "39021823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39021823", "title": "John E. Jeuck", "text": "John E. Jeuck\n\nJohn E. Jeuck (October 17, 1916 - December 18, 2009) was an American professor of business and dean (1952-1955) of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. He was best known for his work on business history and corporate strategy, especially his profile of Sears in his 1950 book \"Catalogues and Counters: A History of Sears, Roebuck and Company\" with Boris Emmet. The book received the national award of the American Marketing Association in 1951.\n\nJeuck spent most of his career at the University of Chicago, receiving his Bachelor of Arts in 1937, MBA in 1938, and PhD in 1949. A veteran of the United States Navy, he joined the University faculty three years before he received his PhD. As dean, he changed the school's curriculum and helped establish a downtown campus for part-time MBA students. Jeuck also increased faculty retention by eliminating a requirement that professors give their consulting fees to the school. The old policy often led to professors giving the University more money than they earned in salary. He served as a professor of business administration at Harvard Business School from 1955 to 1958. He returned in 1958 to the University of Chicago when he was named the Robert Law Professor of Business Administration. In 2003, former students and friends (including Philip J. Purcell of Morgan Stanley, J. William Uhrig, and Peter G. Peterson of the Blackstone Group) helped him establish the Distinguished Fellows Program at the University, which provides five MBA students with a scholarship, stipend, and mentoring by Harry Davis, The University of Chicago Booth School of Business Roger L. and Rachel M. Goetz Distinguished Service Professor of Creative Management.\n\nHe received the McKinsey Award for Excellence in Teaching in 1979 and retired from teaching in 1988. During his career, he served as a consultant to over a dozen companies, including Sears, IBM, and Coca-Cola. He also served as a director of The Walgreen Company and was a visiting professor at Stanford University, Dartmouth College, and the University of North Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "1652434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1652434", "title": "John M. Harbert", "text": "John M. Harbert\n\nJohn Murdoch Harbert III (July 19, 1921 – March 31, 1995) was an American businessman. He is best known for building his international construction company, Harbert Corporation, into one of the world's largest, along with creating a personal wealth of well over $1.7 billion. Harbert lived with his wife Marguerite in the Birmingham, Alabama suburb of Mountain Brook.\n\nJohn is also the older brother of late Birmingham businessman Bill L. Harbert, who was a co-founder of Harbert Corp. and who headed up the company's international operations. In 1993 Harbert Corp. sold its international construction division to Bill. Today the company's former international construction division is known as B.L. Harbert International and is run by Bill's son Billy.\n\nMr. Harbert served in the U.S. Army during World War II. He received a degree in civil engineering from Auburn University in 1946. In 1949, he founded the Harbert Corporation. The company main business was its domestic and international construction unit, which at the time was one of the largest in the country. In the early 1990s the company sold its domestic construction operation. It also sold its international construction division around the same time to John's brother Bill L. Harbert, which today is known as B.L. Harbert International. Other company subsidiaries engaged in mining, pipeline development, land development, limestone quarrying, road construction. Harbert projects are numerous in Alabama, but the company had many projects in the Middle East as well. In metro Birmingham, Harbert's best known projects include the Elton B. Stephens Expressway (also called the Red Mountain Expressway, U.S. Highway 280), the Riverchase planned community, the accompanying Riverchase Galleria, the state's largest shopping center, and the Regions-Harbert Plaza.\n\nA lengthy section of Interstate 459, the belt highway around the south side of metro Birmingham, is named for Harbert.\n\nHarbert was a noted philanthropist, with numerous contributions to Auburn University and to Birmingham-Southern College, where a building bears his wife's name.\n\nHarbert was married to the former Marguerite \"Wita\" Jones. The couple had three children, John Murdoch IV, Raymond, and Marguerite. John Harbert died on March 31, 1995. He was friends with T. Boone Pickens, and at one time was his business partner. His company continues to this day under the leadership of his son Raymond and operates under the name Harbert Management Corporation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55630113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55630113", "title": "Keith Barr (businessman)", "text": "Keith Barr (businessman)\n\nKeith Barr (born July 1970) is an American businessman, and the CEO of InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) since July 2017, succeeding Richard Solomons.\n\nBarr has a degree from Cornell University's School of Hotel Administration.\n\nBarr joined IHG in 2000, rising to CEO in July 2017, succeeding Richard Solomons.\n"}
{"id": "2657877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657877", "title": "Laura Lopes", "text": "Laura Lopes\n\nLaura Rose Lopes (née Parker Bowles; born 1 January 1978) is the daughter of Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, and Andrew Parker Bowles. Her mother's remarriage in 2005 made Charles, Prince of Wales, her stepfather.\n\nLaura Lopes grew up at Bolehyde Manor in Allington, and later Middlewick House in Corsham, both in Wiltshire. She and her brother Tom were raised as Roman Catholics. Both their father and their paternal grandmother, Ann, were also Catholic.\n\nLopes was educated at St Mary's Shaftesbury, a Catholic girls boarding school in Dorset. In the 1980s, she and her brother attended Heywood Preparatory School in Corsham. She later attended Oxford Brookes University, where she studied History of Art and Marketing.\n\nIn 2001, Lopes spent three months as an intern at the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice, where she said years later that she still visited when in Venice. She was \"Tatler\"s motoring correspondent in 2001 while her brother Tom was a food columnist at the same magazine. Lopes managed The Space Gallery in London's Belgravia area in the mid-2000s, and in October 2005 became a co-founding partner and gallery director of London's Eleven gallery.\n\nIn 2006, Lopes married chartered accountant Harry Lopes. He is the grandson of Massey Lopes, 2nd Baron Roborough and Helen Dawson, as well as of Gavin Astor, 2nd Baron Astor of Hever and Irene Haig of the Astor family.\n\nThe wedding took place on 6 May 2006 in St Cyriac's Church, an 11th-century Anglican church in Lacock, Wiltshire. Lopes wore a wedding dress by Anna Valentine, the designer known for designing her mother's dress for her wedding to the Prince of Wales in 2005. 400–500 guests attended the wedding and more than 2,000 well-wishers lined the streets after the ceremony. The reception was held at Ray Mill, the nearby estate of the bride's mother.\n\nIn July 2007, Lopes announced in the \"News of the World\" that she and her husband were expecting their first child in January 2008; she gave birth to a daughter, Eliza, on 16 January. In July 2009, it was announced that they were expecting twins and on 30 December 2009 she gave birth to fraternal twin boys who were named Gus and Louis. Eliza was a bridesmaid at the wedding of Prince William and Catherine Middleton on 29 April 2011.\n"}
{"id": "4760090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760090", "title": "Lemonade Tycoon 2", "text": "Lemonade Tycoon 2\n\nLemonade Tycoon 2 is the sequel to Lemonade Tycoon. This game contains more features, improved graphics, and is set in New York City, unlike its predecessor. Also, this version allowed the player to have more than one stand and the ability to have stands in more than one location at once.\n\nLemonade Tycoon 2 revolves around selling lemonade for a profit. The player can buy upgrades to make customers happier and make lemonade faster.\n\nLemonade Tycoon 2 has three modes:\n\nLemonade Tycoon has 19 locations where a stand can be located, which include The Bronx, Brooklyn, Greenwich Village, Central Park, Times Square, Statue of Liberty, and Grand Central Station.\n"}
{"id": "14140335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14140335", "title": "Lillie Mae Carroll Jackson", "text": "Lillie Mae Carroll Jackson\n\nLillie May Carroll Jackson (May 25, 1889 – July 5, 1975), pioneer civil rights activist, organizer of the Baltimore branch of the NAACP. Invariably known as \"Dr. Lillie\", \"Ma Jackson\", and the \"mother of the civil rights movement\", Lillie May Carroll Jackson pioneered the tactic of non-violent resistance to racial segregation used by Martin Luther King and others during the early civil rights movement.\n\nBorn in Baltimore, Maryland, Lillie May Carroll Jackson was the seventh child of Methodist Minister Charles Henry Carroll (who claimed descent from Charles Carroll of Carrollton, a signer of the Declaration of Independence) and Amanda Bowen Carroll who was said to be the granddaughter of a free-born African chief named John Bowen. After completing her public school education and graduating from the Colored High School and Normal School in 1909, Jackson became a second-grade teacher at the old Biddle Street School.\n\nJackson grew up singing soprano in the choir of the Sharp Street Baptist Church. On an occasion when the church was used to show religious motion pictures, she met Methodist evangelist Keiffer Albert Jackson of Carrollton, Mississippi. A promoter of religious films, Jackson requested that she sing a song entitled \"The Holy City\". Years later, in 1910, they were married. Once they were married they began to travel together, she sang while the silent pictures were shown and lectured wherever he showed his films.\n\nUpon the arrival of their first child, the Jackson family settled in Baltimore. In addition to her oldest child, Virginia, Mrs. Jackson gave birth to two other girls, Juanita Elizabeth (born January 2, 1913) and Marion, followed by one son, Bowen Keiffer.\n\nDuring 1918 Jackson experienced a life changing crisis. She underwent emergency surgery for mastoiditis. The procedure was so extensive her doctor told her that he \"had removed more decayed bone from her head than he thought possible to survive\". As a result, the right side of her face was permanently disfigured. Most photos of her henceforth were taken from the left side to conceal her scars.\n\nJackson was literally the mother of the civil rights movement. Her daughter Juanita, the first African-American woman to practice law in Maryland, married Clarence Mitchell Jr. September 7, 1938. Mitchell's brother Parren Mitchell was the first African-American congressman from Maryland. Juanita and Clarence had four sons: Clarence M. Mitchell, III (a former state senator), Michael Bowen Mitchell Sr.(former state senator and Baltimore City Council member), Keiffer Jackson Mitchell, M.D., and George Davis Mitchell. Kieffer Mitchell's son, Keiffer J. Mitchell Jr. was a Baltimore City Council member (and is currently a delegate) and Clarence M. Mitchell, IV was a member of the Maryland State Senate.\n\nAs a successful owner of rental property, Jackson was free to engage in activities which led to community improvement. She sponsored the City-Wide Young Peoples forum with her daughter Juanita in the leadership in the early 1930s. The forum conducted a campaign to end racial segregation beginning with the grassroots \"Buy Where You Can Work\" campaign of 1931. Jackson and her daughter Juanita along with the forums' members encouraged African-American residents of Baltimore to shop only at businesses where they could work, boycotting businesses with discriminatory hiring practices. The campaign's success led to similar protests in other cities around the country.\n\nAt one forum gathering, Charles Hamilton Houston, informed the audience \"we could sue Jim Crow out of Maryland\". Subsequently, Carl Murphy of the \"Afro-American\" newspaper suggested that Lillie join forces with the NAACP. That was the beginning of her 35-year tenure with the NAACP, in a role as president of the Baltimore branch in 1935, a position she held until retirement in 1970. 1934 saw the beginning of Thurgood Marshall's employment with the Baltimore NAACP branch. The next year he won a landmark case financed by the Baltimore NAACP, Murray v. Pearson, removing the color barrier from admissions to the University of Maryland School of Law. In 1946 she founded the Maryland state conference of the NAACP and was elected to the National Board of Directors in 1948.\n\nIn 1938 the NAACP won a historic legal challenge to racial barriers in publicly funded institutions. A court judgment overturned city policy assuring all Baltimore city school teachers received equal pay. Jackson's 1942 movement to register black voters began a shift in city politics. That same year she was named to Maryland's first Interracial Commission. She was also fundamental to Baltimore being the first Southern city to integrate its schools after the landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision. Baltimore's Fair Employment Practices law was passed in 1958. She was such a force in Maryland and Baltimore politics that Governor Theodore McKeldin was noted to have said of her, \"I'd rather have the devil after me than Mrs. Jackson. Give her what she wants.\"\n\nUltimately, her efforts built the Baltimore NAACP into the largest branch of the organization in the United States with a peak membership of 17,600.\n\nJackson died from a myocardial infarction and was interred at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Baltimore.\n\nJackson's will called for the home she lived in for twenty-two years, 1320 Eutaw Place in Baltimore, to be turned into a museum. As the only museum named after a woman and the only civil rights museum in the state of Maryland, it serves as a repository of civil rights artifacts including documents, framed memorabilia and household furnishings. Prominent amongst these was a life-sized photo of Jackson with Rosa Parks just inside the building's entrance.\n\nUpon its 1976 opening the museum enjoyed a modest flow of visitors. By mid 1990 its maintenance had become untenable to the extent that the structure was no longer viable as a museum. In 1997 Morgan State University took responsibility for the facility and as curators placed its contents in storage. The facility then became dormant, awaiting sufficient matching funds to put in use a grant which was received from the state of Maryland. A re-opening of the museum is currently planned for June 2016.\n\nIn 1986, Jackson was posthumously inducted into the Maryland Women's Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31755945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31755945", "title": "List of AICPA Issues Papers", "text": "List of AICPA Issues Papers\n\nAICPA Issues Papers new article content ...\nThe following list of AICPA Issues Papers have been compiled using the holdings of the University of Mississippi Libraries and the 2008 \"Technical Practice Aids\" section entitled \"Issues papers of the Accounting Standards Division.\" Issues Papers were originally intended to be an evenhanded discussion of topics that needed to be \"addressed or clarified by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.\" Issues Papers were the vehicle the AICPA's Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC) used to present emerging practice problems to the FASB and accounting practitioners. Issues Papers generally followed a standard format: (1) background, (2) analysis of current practice, (3) review of the literature, (4) statement of issues needing resolution, and (5) advisory conclusions.\n\nWhile Issues Papers were never enforceable standards, they became recognized (prior to the creation of the FASB Codification in 2009) as the fifth or lowest level in the GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (United States) hierarchy of standards Issues Papers often offered guidance in areas too narrow for FASB's attention or when guidance was required in a more timely fashion than permitted by the formulation and issuance of a FASB statement. Issues Papers then gained a level of authority as practitioners followed their guidance and different agencies accepted their recommendations. The U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) declared the 1984 Issues Paper, \"Identification and Discussion of Certain financial Accounting and Reporting Issues Concerning LIFO Inventories,\" as authoritative in 1985. The method of handling stock transaction in the 1980 Issues Paper, Accounting in Consolidation for Issuances of a Subsidiary Stock, was also accepted in 1983 by the SEC as acceptable practice. The 1986 Issues Paper, Accounting for Options, provided the \"first definitive professional opinion on how to account for options. \n\n"}
{"id": "13725692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13725692", "title": "List of smart cards", "text": "List of smart cards\n\nSome widely used contactless smart cards include Sydney's Opal Card, London's Oyster card, South Korea's T-money, Hong Kong's Octopus card, Stockholm's Access card, Japan's Suica and Pasmo cards, Manila's Beep cards, Nigeria's ETC Card, Paris' Calypso/Navigo, the Dutch OV-Chipkaart, Toronto's Presto card and Lisbon's LisboaViva card, which predate the ISO/IEC 14443 standard. The following tables list smart cards used for public transport and other electronic purse applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "1682758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1682758", "title": "Louis O. Coxe", "text": "Louis O. Coxe\n\nLouis Osborne Coxe (April 15, 1918 – May 25, 1993) was an American poet, playwright, essayist, and professor who was recognized by the Academy of American Poets for his \"long, powerful, quiet accomplishment, largely unrecognized, in lyric poetry.\" He was probably best known for his dramatic adaptation of Herman Melville's \"Billy Budd\", which opened on Broadway in 1951.\n\nBorn in Manchester, New Hampshire in 1918 but raised in Salem, Massachusetts (where his family had lived since 1640), Coxe was educated at St. Paul's School. He graduated from Princeton University in 1940, writing his senior thesis on Edwin Arlington Robinson.\n\nDuring World War II, Coxe served in the United States Navy, commanding the U.S.S. PC-549 in the South Pacific Theater during the Northern Solomon Islands campaign and the invasion of Guam and invasion of Saipan-Tinian (and later the U.S.S. PC-1195), an experience that would shape much of his poetry. After leaving active service in 1946, he married Edith Winsor, granddaughter of Boston financier Robert Winsor, and began teaching at Princeton. He was Briggs-Copeland Fellow at Harvard University from 1948 to 1949, and from 1949 to 1955, he taught at the University of Minnesota. Coxe then moved to Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine in 1956, where he remained (except for brief appointments at Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland, and the University of Aix-Marseilles, France) as head of the English department until his death in 1993 after 11 years suffering from Alzheimer's disease.\n\nCoxe received his largest critical recognition for his dramatic adaptation, with Robert Chapman, of Herman Melville's morality tale Billy Budd, which opened to critical acclaim on Broadway in 1951, winning both the Donaldson Awards and the Outer Critics Circle Award for best play. The New York Times' Brooks Atkinson called it \"extraordinarily well done,\" and said that \"the tragic portions are written with taste, firmness and intelligence.\" Coxe was also credited with co-writing the screenplay for Peter Ustinov's film version of the play. He wrote several other plays, most for local productions in Maine, one of which, \"Decoration Day\" (about Civil War general Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain), was published as a book along with his long narrative poem \"Nikal Seyn.\" He was also praised for his criticism, writing books on both Chaucer and Edwin Arlington Robinson.\n\nBut Coxe's main focus was his poetry, which U.S. Poet Laureate Howard Nemerov called \"terse, cryptic, almost savage in their beauty.\" Much of his work focused on his experience during World War II and the natural environment of his native New England. Several of his poems, reviews and essays appeared first in The New Yorker, The New Republic, Paris Review, and Atlantic Monthly. In 1972 the Maine State Commission on the Arts and Humanities presented him with a Maine State Award for his significant contributions to the cultural life of Maine. He was named the 36th fellow of the Academy of American Poets in 1977 and was awarded a creative writing grant from the National Endowment for the Arts that same year. One of the last poems he published, \"Nightsong\" (1983), was featured in the anthology \"Fifty Years of American Poetry\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33453847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33453847", "title": "Master of Counselling", "text": "Master of Counselling\n\nThe Master of Counselling or Counseling (MC, M.C., or M.Couns.) is a postgraduate professional degree. The degree prepares students for professional practice as counsellors or counselling psychologists in mental health clinics, community organizations, schools, post-secondary educational institutions, employee assistance programs, and private practice. Students typically choose a specialization, such as counselling psychology, school counselling, marital & couples counselling, career counselling, or art therapy.\n\nA number of Australian universities, including La Trobe University, The University of Queensland, Victoria University, Monash University, and Curtin University, offer a Master of Counselling degree.\n\nThe degree is awarded by a number of Canadian universities such as the University of Calgary, the University of Lethbridge, and Athabasca University. \nThe degree meets academic requirements to attain registration as a Canadian Certified Counsellor (CCC) with the Canadian Counselling and Psychotherapy Association or Registered Psychologist (R.Psych) in certain Canadian provinces, including Alberta.\nThe University of Waikato offers a Master of Counselling degree.\n\nThe University of Edinburgh offers a Master of Counselling (Interpersonal Dialogue) as a two-year full-time course.\n\nIdaho State University is among United States institutions offering a Master of Counseling (one \"L\" in US spelling).\n"}
{"id": "52650651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52650651", "title": "MormonLeaks", "text": "MormonLeaks\n\nMormonLeaks (formerly Mormon WikiLeaks) is a whistleblowing organization inspired by WikiLeaks, which focuses on exposing documents from the leadership of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). It began in October 2016 as a leaked series of videos on the YouTube channel Mormon Leaks. In total, 15 videos were initially leaked via the Mormon Leaks channel from meetings of high-ranking LDS leaders including the Quorum of the Twelve. They discussed topics including the \"homosexual agenda\", the subprime mortgage crisis, and a debate over the sexual orientation of Chelsea Manning. Politicians featured in the videos included former Utah governor Mike Leavitt and former U.S. Senator from Oregon Gordon H. Smith.\n\nRyan McKnight, founder of MormonLeaks, was interviewed by \"The New York Times\" about his YouTube channel Mormon Leaks, and this led to contacts from Reddit who asked him for a secure way to send files. He set up a website to allow whistleblowers to protect their anonymity. The submission process ensures confidentiality, including erasure of IP addresses, asking leakers to use the privacy browser Tor, sending documents via SecureDrop, and additional encryption methods. Initial funding was raised through GoFundMe, and an official Twitter account was set up. The site's intent is to increase transparency of LDS Church leadership, and would not leak names of lower-level employees, instead focusing on the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Presidency.\n\nUniversity of Tampa professor Ryan Cragun said scholars were interested in finding out what documents would be revealed, noting there was a dearth of information available about the finances of the LDS Church. He said active Mormons were unlikely to view the leaked materials, but the material would have a more significant impact on those who were questioning or had already resigned their membership status. Mormon scholar and columnist Jana Riess gave a mixed assessment, criticizing their tactics regarding privacy while saying it could help to increase LDS Church leadership transparency. Utah attorney and Mormon blogger Steve Evans said the practice of leaking was criminal publication of stolen property, and said LDS Church employees who leaked material were likely violating a non-disclosure agreement.\n\nRyan McKnight, the site's founder, had previously gained attention in October 2016 when he was interviewed by \"The New York Times\" about his YouTube channel \"Mormon Leaks\", which released videos of top LDS leadership executive discussions. McKnight is a former Mormon, having resigned from the LDS Church in 2014, residing in Las Vegas, Nevada. The anonymous individual who sent him the videos via email, according to McKnight, had been holding onto them for a period of years but with the intention to do something with them eventually. Within a time span of under a month the YouTube channel had garnered 2,200 followers.\n\nThe LDS Church did not publicly question the veracity of the videos, which included top leadership debating the \"homosexual agenda\". Additional topics discussed by the high-level LDS Church leadership in the videos included marijuana, Islam, the subprime mortgage crisis, and a debate over the sexual orientation of Chelsea Manning. LDS Church spokesman Eric Hawkins provided an official response, which stated: \"In these committee meetings, presentations are routinely received from various religious, political and subject matter experts on various topics. The purpose is to understand issues that may face the Church, and is in pursuit of the obligation Church leaders feel to be informed on and have open discussion about current issues. This is an informational forum, not a decision-making body.\" Hawkins pointed out the videos were from a timeframe of 2007 through 2012.\n\nIn total the 15 videos were published to YouTube on the last day of the October 2016 LDS General Conference. Most of the videos were from closed session events only attended by high-level LDS Church leadership. The majority of them depicted lectures given to the Quorum of the Twelve, the second-highest ranking leadership group within the LDS Church. Mike Leavitt, former governor of Utah, appeared in a video filmed in 2012 and gave a presentation on State Religious Freedom Restoration Acts. Gordon H. Smith, former U.S. senator from Oregon, was shown in another video talking to the LDS Church leadership. Smith lectured the LDS Church leaders about the \"inestimable power\" yielded from being able to contact U.S. Senators whenever necessary for assistance. The lectures given to LDS Church leadership in this fashion were businesslike, with statistics and Microsoft PowerPoint presentations.\n\nMcKnight suddenly found himself the point-person on the Internet for those wishing to maintain anonymity and yet simultaneously publicize secret documents from the LDS Church. After the videos engendered debate and attention from Mormons and the wider Internet community, McKnight was asked to add more videos from people who messaged him on Reddit. After another anonymous user on Reddit asked him, he publicized documents from the LDS Church detailing a rules modification about homosexual partners. Reddit users asked him for a more secure means of submitting documents about the LDS Church.\n\nMcKnight decided to found MormonLeaks so whistleblowers could protect their anonymity. Since his increased attention from the October videos and the November policy change leaks, McKnight has been contacted by 25 sources inside and outside of the LDS Church with potential material to release. McKnight and his team spent six months planning creation of the organization. He estimated approximately a potential for between hundreds to thousands of additional invididuals who may wish to leak information through the site. The organization has no affiliation with Fred Karger or his website MormonTips.com, which also publicizes confidential documents from the LDS Church. MormonLeaks takes steps to protect confidentiality of their sources, including erasing all IP addresses from submissions and removing watermarks from submitted materials. The site asks users who wish to submit secret documents to use the Tor privacy browser to protect themselves. Users then send the documents to MormonLeaks via SecureDrop. Encryption methods are further incorporated to mask the identity of the whistleblowers. The motivation behind the organization is to increase transparency of LDS Church leadership.\n\nMormonLeaks launched on December 19, 2016. The organization was started with a website and accompanying Twitter page. The MormonLeaks team works to verify documents before posting them live. This fact-checking team includes five volunteers and an attorney. MormonLeaks does not take funding through advertising. Funds to start MormonLeaks itself were initially raised through donations from GoFundMe. The hope of its founder was that MormonLeaks would demonstrate the LDS Church's profitable nature as a business as opposed to its assertion of religious status. The founder said it was highly unlikely the LDS Church would voluntarily publicize more of its innermost proceedings, saying it \"will never be voluntarily transparent, they have nothing to gain from it\". The site's intention was to avoid publishing specific lists of names of membership, and instead focus on economic information and internal organization policies and procedures. The site intended to limit disclosure of actual people's names to high-ranking officials including the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Presidency. \n\nThe organization's first leaks appeared on December 19, 2016, in the form of LDS Church documents from 2010. It published four files onto its account on Facebook as of December 20, 2016. The first documents publicized by MormonLeaks included memos about legal procedures, a letter to the temple department's executive director regarding unsanctioned materials on the Internet, and an organizational chart for the intellectual property division of the LDS Church. MormonLeaks asserts to have been offered documents from two separate individuals who were employees of the LDS Church concerning tithing information of famous Mormons, including American football quarterback Steve Young.\n\nAfter MormonLeaks had posted a handful a number of LDS Church documents for four months, the Church sent a cease-and-desist letter alleging copyright infringement with regard to a leaked Church leadership PowerPoint presentation published by MormonLeaks in February 2017. The PowerPoint discussed societal pressures that the Church felt had led some LDS members to apostasy, which included pornography, the issues agitated for by Ordain Women, and questions regarding Mormon history such as those promoted in books by lawyer / Fundamentalist Mormon Denver Snuffer or in online postings by psychologist social critic John Dehlin. MormonLeaks pulled the offending document for a short while, until its attorney, Marc Randazza, sent the LDS Church a letter which said, \"At this point, my client is willing to let bygones be bygones. If your client is willing to step back from the brink, and to cease efforts to censor this material, my client is willing to refrain from bringing a claim [of abusing copyright law].\"\n\nWikiLeaks was aware of the foundation under the site's original name of MormonWikiLeaks, and sent them a message on Twitter asking them to change their name. The founder stated he would retain the name as MormonWikiLeaks, and said a trademark application was pending.\n\nUniversity of Tampa professor Ryan Cragun said academics were excited to discover more information about the economics behind the LDS Church, as members tithe 10 percent of their earnings and there was not much in the way of transparent documents available to research their holdings and finances. Cragun said it was unlikely active members of the LDS Church would end up viewing the leaked documents because they were \"highly insulated\". However, he notes documents would have a greater impact on someone who is considering leaving the LDS Church: \"For someone in the middle of a faith transition, such information is more fuel for the fire.\"\n\nEditor-in-chief of \"The Nonprofit Quarterly\", Ruth McCambridge, wrote that the appearance of MormonLeaks was reflective of an increasing trend by individuals to use technology to force nonprofit organizations to be transparent and accountable to the public. MormonLeaks has an attorney on staff, which McCambridge notes may be beneficial given the prior litigation history where the LDS Church made a copyright infringement assertion against WikiLeaks for publishing the church's \"Handbook of Instructions\".\n\nMormon scholar and columnist Jana Riess was critical of the organization's tactics, stating: \"I am very concerned about privacy in our culture more generally. People in the workplace have the right to expect that intraoffice communication and their emails will stay private.\" She called MormonLeaks \"disturbing\" and said: \"It is not good news for any of us.\" On a positive note, Riess said it could motivate the upper LDS Church leadership to increase its transparency.\n\nUtah attorney and Mormon blogger Steve Evans called MormonLeaks \"a rebranding exercise of McKnight's existing practice of posting various confidential items.\" Evans said MormonLeaks had \"an added layer of cybersecurity, which won't necessarily protect the leakers, depending on their methods of obtaining the various stolen documents, videos, etc.\" Evans was critical of McKnight's encouragement to those who choose to leak information to MormonLeaks: \"the leakers are likely either church employees or consultants working for the church. In either of those situations, it's very likely that the leakers are violating their nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with the church. McKnight is now publicly encouraging people to violate these agreements.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12877165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12877165", "title": "Mugar family", "text": "Mugar family\n\nThe Mugar family of Greater Boston, Massachusetts, is a prominent Armenian-American family in New England business and in philanthropy, both in the United States and in Armenia. The best known member of the family is Stephen P. Mugar, (1901-1982), who founded the Star Market chain of super markets on which the family fortune was based. In its May, 2004, issue, Boston Magazine ranked the Mugar family sixth in its list of the 50 most influential Boston families.\n\nThe first family members to arrive in Boston were brothers, Charles and Martin Mugar (shortened from \"Mugardichian\"), who came from Kharpert, Ottoman Empire, in 1904. They were joined in 1906 by their brothers, Arthur, Gregory and Sarkis Mugar, along with Sarkis Mugar's wife and three children, one of whom was Stephen P. Mugar.\n\n\nThe major objects of Mugar family philanthropic giving have been:\n\n"}
{"id": "1176568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176568", "title": "National Digital Newspaper Program", "text": "National Digital Newspaper Program\n\nThe National Digital Newspaper Program is a joint project between the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Library of Congress to create and maintain a publicly available, online digital archive of historically significant newspapers published in the United States between 1836 and 1922. Additionally, the program will make available bibliographic records and holdings information for some 140,000 newspaper titles from the 17th century to the present. Further, it will include scope notes and encyclopedia-style entries discussing the historical significance of specific newspapers. Added content will also include contextually relevant historical information. \"One organization within each U.S. state or territory will receive an award to collaborate with relevant state partners in this effort.\" In March 2007 more than 226,000 pages of newspapers from California, Florida, Kentucky, New York, Utah, Virginia and the District of Columbia published between 1900 and 1910 were put online at a fully searchable site called \"Chronicling America.\" As of December 2007, the total number of pages is about 413,000. This further expanded to be 1 million pages in 2009. Funding through the National Endowment for the Humanities is carried out through their \"We The People\" initiative.\n\nThis project dovetails with the United States Newspaper Program which was a massive project to microfilm newspaper collections. The initiators of that earlier project asserted that the intellectual content of newspapers serves an important role for researchers as it is for all intents and purposes the first draft of history. Newspapers also provide unique access to \"diverse geographic viewpoints at the community level.\" Problematically, since the middle of the 19th century this \"first draft\" has been recorded on poor quality newsprint which is decaying rapidly. This digitization project's purpose is to continue preserving newspaper and newspaper collections while addressing the inadequacies of the prior program. Through digitization, it is more likely that images will be copied with fidelity and that the records will be more richly searchable. This latter point is huge as newspapers traditionally posed a research challenge due to density of text and inadequate cataloging of content.\n\nOn March 31, 2004, Bruce Cole, the directory of the NEH, and James Billington, the Librarian of Congress, signed an agreement creating the National Digital Newspaper Program. The NDNP follows in the footsteps of the successful United States Newspaper Program, a several-decade effort to catalog and microfilm the bulk of America's historic newspapers. The program is broken down into two phases. Each successive phase will both increase the scope of the program and refine the requirements for data collection.\n\nIn July 2004 the award guidelines were issued. Applications were due in October and awardees were announced the following March. The first phase took newspapers from a small subset of the states, limited to 1900 through 1910. After using this phase to improve technical requirements and specifications, the program was opened to other awardees in Phase 2.\n\nThe awardees for Phase 1 are:\n\nThe General-access Phase 1 website prototype was implemented in March 2007 and that May it was announced that phase 1 was completed.\n\nPhase 2 of NDNP expanded grants to an additional group of institutions. Awards granted in 2007 and 2008 included the following institutions:\n\n\nParticipants must follow the technical guidelines laid out in a 64-page PDF. The technology for the NDNP digital repository is being built using largely open source software, including:\nDigital objects are stored in .TIFF 6.0, .JPEG 2000, and .PDF formats. Metadata is provided in the METS/MODS version of XML and XML provides the basis for larger hierarchical structures as well.\n\nThe scanning efforts of the government entity has been dwarfed by the private efforts newspapers.com and newspaperarchive.com which as of March 2018 claim to each have scanned more than 350 million pages. Publishers, libraries and historical organizations find the private sector faster, less complicated and cheaper than the National Digital Newspaper Program. Both private organizations charge readers to read, but do not charge publishers to scan items.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294736", "title": "Nicholas Biddle (banker)", "text": "Nicholas Biddle (banker)\n\nNicholas Biddle (January 8, 1786 – February 27, 1844) was an American financier who served as the third and last president of the Second Bank of the United States (chartered 1816–1836). He also served in the Pennsylvania General Assembly. He is best known for his role in the Bank War.\n\nA member of the prominent Biddle family of Philadelphia, Nicholas Biddle worked for prominent officials such as John Armstrong Jr. and James Monroe in his youth. After returning to Philadelphia, he won election to the state legislature. While serving in the legislature, he successfully lobbied Congress and President Monroe for the creation of a new central bank, which became known as the Second Bank of the United States. In 1822, Monroe appointed Biddle as the third president of the bank. Biddle would continue to serve as the bank's president for several years, during which time he exercised power over the nation's money supply and interest rates, seeking to prevent economic crises. \n\nAt the request of Henry Clay and other Whigs, Biddle asked Democratic President Andrew Jackson to renew the bank's federal charter in 1832. Jackson, who held a deep hostility to many banks, declined to renew the charter, beginning a political debate known as the Bank War. When Jackson transferred the federal government's deposits to several state banks, Biddle raised interest rates, causing a mild economic recession. The federal charter expired in 1836, but the bank was re-chartered by Pennsylvania. Biddle continued to serve as president of the bank until 1839.\n\nNicholas Biddle was born in Philadelphia, in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Ancestors of the Biddle family immigrated to Pennsylvania when the proprietor, William Penn (of the Religious Society of Friends, or \"Quakers\") visited, and fought in the pre-Revolutionary colonial struggles. His father, Charles, was prominent in his devotion to the cause of American independence and served as Vice-President of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, alongside Council President, the famous Benjamin Franklin (1705/06–1790).\n\nAn uncle with the same name, Nicholas Biddle (1750–1778), whose residence was also in Philadelphia, was an early colonial and American Revolutionary War naval hero, who died during the rebellion. Another uncle, Edward Biddle, was also a member of the First Continental Congress of 1774. Young Nicholas's preparatory education was received at an academy in Philadelphia, where his progress was so rapid that he entered the class of 1799 in the University of Pennsylvania (formerly the \"Academy\", then the \"College of Philadelphia\" until 1791), and would have taken his degree at the age of thirteen had it not been deemed wise to keep him longer at his books. He was accordingly sent to Princeton (formerly the College of New Jersey), entered the sophomore class, and was graduated in 1801 as valedictorian, dividing the first honor of the class with his only rival. His younger brother Thomas Biddle, a War of 1812 hero who died in a duel, should not be confused with his cousin by the same name, who became a leading exchange broker in Philadelphia.\n\nBiddle was offered an official position before he had even finished his law studies. As secretary to John Armstrong Jr. (a Revolutionary War officer, delegate to the Continental Congress, later a U.S. Senator, United States minister to France, and Secretary of War under fourth President James Madison during the War of 1812), he went abroad in 1804 and was in Paris in the new French Empire at the time of Napoleon Bonaparte's coronation. Afterward he participated in an audit related to the \"Louisiana Purchase\" by the United States of the territory west of the Mississippi River, acquiring his first experience in financial affairs. Biddle traveled extensively through Europe, returning to England to serve as secretary for James Monroe, then United States minister to the Court of St. James's (Kingdom of Great Britain). At Cambridge University, Biddle took part in a conversation with Cambridge professors involving comparison between modern Greek dialect and that of Homer; the incident captured Monroe's attention.\n\nIn 1807, Biddle returned home to Philadelphia. He practiced law and wrote, contributing papers to different publications on various subjects, but chiefly in the fine arts. He became associate editor of a magazine called \"Port-Folio\", which was published from 1806–23. When editor Joseph Dennie died in 1812, Biddle took over the magazine and lived on 7th Street, near Spruce Street.\n\nBiddle also prepared western explorers Lewis and Clark's report for publication of their exploratory expedition up the Missouri River through the newly acquired Louisiana Purchase from France (previously recently owned for generations by Spain), across the Rocky Mountains and the Oregon Country of the Pacific Northwest to the mouth of the Columbia River on the far Pacific coast, and he encouraged third President Thomas Jefferson to write an introductory memoir of his former aide and private secretary, Captain Meriwether Lewis, (1774–1809). However, Biddle's name does not appear in the work, as he was elected to serve on the Pennsylvania state legislature (1810–1811) and was compelled to turn over the project to Paul Allen, (1775–1826), who then further supervised its publication. With the consent of all parties, Allen was then recognized as the editor.\n\nBiddle served in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in 1810, and then in the Pennsylvania State Senate in 1814. He originated a bill favoring popular education almost a quarter of a century in advance of the times. Though the bill was initially defeated, it resurfaced repeatedly in different forms until, in 1836, the Pennsylvania \"common-school\" system was inaugurated as an indirect result of his efforts.\n\nAfter Biddle moved to the Pennsylvania State Senate, he lobbied for the rechartering of the Second Bank of the United States. It was on this subject that he made his first speech, which attracted general attention at the time, and was warmly commended by Chief-Justice Marshall and other leaders of public opinion. \n\nThe Bank had been revived and reorganized from the earlier First Bank of the United States, established in 1791 under the administration of first President George Washington, and after a chartered term of 20 years, expired in 1811 on the eve of the monetary pressures of the coming War of 1812 era. After economic hardships and problems financing the Government and its war measures during the War of 1812 to 1815, and a period of dormancy, a newly revived and reorganized Second Bank of the United States was rechartered in 1816 under fifth President James Monroe, who appointed Biddle as a Federal Government director and representative. When the Bank's president, Langdon Cheves, resigned in 1822, Biddle became its president. During his association with the Bank, President Monroe, under authority from Congress, directed him to prepare a \"Commercial Digest\" of the laws and trade regulations of the world and the various nations. For many years after, this Digest was regarded as an authority on the subject. \n\nIn late 1818, $4 million of interest payments on the bonds previously sold in 1803 to pay for the \"Louisiana Purchase\" was due, in either gold or silver, to European investors. The U.S. Government had to get its hands on additional amounts of \"specie\", i.e., silver or gold. As the Government's fiscal agent, the Bank was required to make this payment on behalf of the Government. The Bank was forced to demand that the private commercial banks that had been lent money in the form of \"fiat\" paper must now repay in specie, which was then sent to Europe to pay the government's creditors. This rather sudden contraction of the country's monetary base after three currency and rampant speculation based on debt led to the financial Panic of 1819.\n\nMeanwhile, in Tennessee, General and future Presidential candidate, Andrew Jackson was hard-pressed to pay his debts during this period. He developed a lifelong hostility to all banks that were not completely backed by gold or silver deposits. This meant, above all, hostility to the new Second Bank of the United States..\n\nAs Bank president, Biddle occasionally engaged in the newly-developing national techniques of \"central banking\" – controlling the nation's money supply, regulating interest rates, lending to state banks, and acting as the U.S. Government's fiscal agent. When state banks became excessive in their lending practices, Biddle's Bank acted as a restraint. In a few instances, he even rescued state banks to prevent the risk of \"contagion\" spreading. He was also important in the 1833 establishment of Girard College, an early free private school for poor orphaned boys in Philadelphia, under the provisions of the will of his friend and former legal client, Stephen Girard (1750–1831), one of the wealthiest men in America. Girard had been the original promoter of the revival and reorganization of the Second Bank and its largest investor.\n\nOn August 26, 1831, Biddle's brother, Thomas, a War of 1812 veteran, was killed in a duel on \"Bloody Island\" on the Mississippi River at St. Louis, Missouri with U.S. Representative (Congressman) Spencer Pettis. Thomas had taken offense to Pettis' criticizing Nicholas at the bank. After an exchange of letters to the editor of a newspaper, Biddle accosted an ill Pettis in his hotel room. After Pettis recovered, he then challenged Thomas to a duel, and both were killed when they exchanged shots from five feet apart.\n\nThe Bank War began when seventh President Andrew Jackson began criticizing the Bank early in his first term. Biddle, at the urging of Henry Clay and other Bank supporters, upped the ante when he applied for the Bank's re-charter in January 1832. This was four years before the charter was scheduled to expire at the end of two decades, and the hope was to force Jackson into making an unpopular decision that might cost him during an election year. But, once challenged, President Jackson decided to veto the bill anyway. Jackson, well known for his stubborn personality and steadfast leadership, still harbored ill-will toward Henry Clay of Kentucky from the earlier \"Corrupt Bargain\" accusation following the Presidential Election of 1824 which made him Secretary of State when appointed by the administration of the winner, sixth President John Quincy Adams. \n\nAt Biddle's direction, the Bank poured thousands of dollars into a campaign to defeat Jackson in the 1832 election. Biddle was told that this would only give credence to Jackson's theory that the Bank interfered in the American political process, but chose to dismiss the warning. Ultimately, Clay's strategy failed, and in November he lost to Jackson, who was reelected to a second term.\n\nIn early 1833, Jackson, despite opposition from some members of his cabinet, decided to withdraw the Government's funds from the Bank. The incumbent Secretary of the Treasury, Louis McLane, a member of Jackson's Cabinet, professed moderate support for the Bank. He therefore refused to withdraw the Federal funds directed by the President and would not resign, so Jackson then transferred him to the State Department. McLane's successor, William J. Duane, was also opposed to the Bank, but would not carry out Jackson's orders either. After waiting four months, President Jackson summarily dismissed Duane, replacing him with Attorney General Roger B. Taney as a recess appointment when Congress was out of session. In September 1833, Taney helped transfer the public deposits from the Bank to seven state-chartered banks. Faced with the loss of the Federal deposits, Biddle decided to raise interest rates and deliberately induce a recession. A mild financial panic ensued from late 1833 to mid-1834. Intended to force Jackson into a compromise, the move backfired, increasing anti-Bank sentiment. Meanwhile, Biddle and other Bank supporters attempted to renew the Bank's charter through the Congress on numerous occasions. All their attempts failed under the threat of a Jackson presidential veto.\n\nFinally, after the requisite twenty-year term, the Bank's charter expired in April 1836, but the financial institution continued as a state-chartered bank under the laws of Pennsylvania for several more years. As the Bank wound up its operations in the next five years, state-chartered banks in the West and South relaxed their lending standards, maintaining unsafe reserve ratios and contributing to the Panic of 1837. In 1839 Biddle resigned from his post as bank president, and in 1841, amidst the post-Panic recession, the Bank finally failed. Biddle was arrested and charged with fraud, but was acquitted. He died soon after, on February 27, 1844, while still involved in the ensuing civil suits.\n\nIn 1811 Biddle married Jane Margaret Craig (born 1792); the couple had six children including Charles John Biddle, who served in the United States Army and in the House of Representatives.\n\nThe Nicholas Biddle Estate in Bensalem Township, Pennsylvania, also known as \"Andalusia\", is a National Historic Landmark, registered with the National Park Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior.\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1915189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915189", "title": "Pari passu", "text": "Pari passu\n\nPari passu is a Latin phrase that literally means \"with an equal step\" or \"on equal footing\". It is sometimes translated as \"ranking equally\", \"hand-in-hand\", \"with equal force\", or \"moving together\", and by extension, \"fairly\", \"without partiality\".\n\nThis term is commonly used in law. \"Black's Law Dictionary\" (8th ed., 2004) defines \"pari passu\" as \"proportionally; at an equal pace; without preference\". \n\nIn inheritance, an \"in pari passu\" (\"per capita\") distribution can be distinguished from a \"per stirpes\" (by family branch) distribution. \n\nFor example, suppose a testator had two children A and B. A has two children, and B has three. The testator leaves his entire estate to his grandchildren in equal shares \"in pari passu\", each grandchild would inherit one fifth of the estate. If the testator left his entire estate to his grandchildren \"per stirpes\" (by family branch), the children of A would share one half of the estate equally between the two of them, and the children of B would share one half of the estate equally amongst the three of them. \n\nThe problem with a per capita \"in pari passu\" distribution in the example given is as follows. Assume A dies before B. On A's death a distribution could not be made to his or her children: they would have to await the death of B – on the assumption that B could have additional children, and thereby consequently all grandchildren (of both A and B) would be entitled to less than one fifth each.\n\nThis term is also often used in the lending area and in bankruptcy proceedings, where creditors are said to be paid \"pari passu\", or each creditor is paid \"pro rata\" in accordance with the amount of his claim. Here its meaning is \"equally and without preference\".\nThere have been cases where decisions were based on different interpretations of the term.\n\nIn the European Union, as the result of the Greek government-debt crisis, a retroactive Collective action clause passed by the Greek government with the support of the ECB and IMF, enabled the debtor (who also controlled the courts) to impose a 70% loss on the creditors, more than 75% of whom had voted in favour of the cut. In this case, \"pari passu\" means that all private-sector investors are equally treated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12721713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12721713", "title": "Proteolix", "text": "Proteolix\n\nProteolix, Inc., was a private biotechnology company with headquarters in South San Francisco, California. Proteolix was founded in 2003 based on technology developed by co-founders Dr. Craig Crews (Yale University) and Dr. Raymond J. Deshaies (California Institute of Technology). Drs. Susan Molineaux and Phil Whitcome (deceased) joined Drs. Crews and Deshaies as co-founders. Proteolix was launched based on an $18.2 million A round comprising investments by Latterell Venture Partners, US Venture Partners, Advanced Technology Ventures, and The Vertical Group. Proteolix focused primarily on the proteasome as a therapeutic target. Its lead product candidate, carfilzomib (PR-171), is a tetrapeptide epoxyketone. At the time of its sale (see below), the company had two earlier-stage programs, an orally-bioavailable proteasome inhibitor for oncology (PR-047), and an agent preferentially targeting the immuno form of the proteasome (PR-957), with potential utility in areas such as rheumatoid arthritis. At the time of sale, Carfilzomib's route of administration was intravenous, and the company was exploring its potential utility in multiple myeloma, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and other cancers. \n\nProteolix was acquired by Onyx Pharmaceuticals in 2009 for $810 million (nominal value). Onyx renamed PR-047 to \"ONX 0912\" and PR-957 to \"ONX 0914\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8072920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8072920", "title": "Richard C. L. Moncure", "text": "Richard C. L. Moncure\n\nRichard Cassius Lee Moncure (December 11, 1805 – August 24, 1882) was a Virginia politician and jurist, serving for more than 25 years on what became the Virginia Supreme Court.\n\nBorn at the family estate \"Clermont\" in Stafford County, Virginia, in 1805 to one of the First Families of Virginia, Richard Cassius Lee Moncure was the great grandson of Rev. John Moncure, a Scottish Huguenot immigrant and longtime rector of Overwharton parish and friend of George Washington, George Mason and other founding fathers. His father and grandfather were both named John Moncure and active in the affairs of what was renamed Aquia Parish. His mother Alice Peachy Gaskins (1774-1860) bore ten children, of whom Richard Cassius Lee was the seventh child and fourth son. He received his early education in the local schools and read extensively. He married Mary Washington Conway (1807-1890) on December 29, 1825, and that year also bought Glencairne Farm, at which the couple lived the rest of their lives. They had thirteen children, eleven surviving to adulthood. At least three of their sons served as Confederate officers (John Conway Moncure, Thomas Gascoigne Moncure and Walter Peyton Moncure) the eldest of whom became Speaker of the Louisiana house and judge in Shreveport, Louisiana. His grandson Richard Henry Lee Chichester also became a justice of the Virginia Supreme Court.\n\nAfter his admission to the bar in 1825, Moncure practiced in Fredericksburg and surrounding counties. In 1849, he entered politics and won election to the legislature, which was then engaged in extensive revision of the state's legal code. He was appointed to the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals to replace Francis Taliaferro Brooke in 1851, but when the Virginia Constitution was changed that year, election to that court became required. Moncure was one of the five judges elected under that new Constitution, and one of three judges elected under the Constitution of 1864, becoming that Court's President in 1865.\n\nActive on the vestry of St. George's Episcopal Church (Fredericksburg, Virginia) and in the Diocese of Virginia for four decades, Moncure held seven slaves during the 1850 census and 14 slaves during the 1860 census. Before the American Civil War, Moncure was a relative moderate on the appellate court, vehemently dissenting from the decisions in 'Bailey v. Poindexter's Executor,' 55 Va. 132, 14 Gratton 132 (1858) and 'Williamson v. Coalter,' 14 Gratton 394 (1858), both of which postdated the Dred Scott decision and declared testamentary manumissions void because a majority of Moncure's colleagues decided slaves were legally incapable of choosing freedom (although even preceding generations of Virginia judges, including John Marshall had used similar choice language in their wills).\n\nHis tenure of office was temporarily suspended, however, during the Reconstruction period, from 1866 to 1869, when Major General John Schofield enforced a federal law prohibiting men with a record of service to the Confederate States of America to hold public office. Judge Moncure was again elected to a twelve-year term in 1870 with the adoption of the new constitution and again became the Court's President.\n\nHe remained on the Court of Appeals until his death at his home on August 26, 1882. He is buried in the estate's graveyard, although further generations of his descendants are buried at Aquia Church cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "471384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471384", "title": "Samer Majali", "text": "Samer Majali\n\nSamer Majali () is a Jordanian businessman and was the CEO of Gulf Air from 2009 until his resignation was announced on 2 December 2012. He remained CEO until 31 December 2012.And currently Samer Majali is the CEO of SaudiGulf Airlines \n\nMajali has also served as the CEO of Royal Jordanian airlines from 2002-2009, and was credited for transforming the airline into one of the most successful in the region. Under his management, the airline recorded its first ever net profit. Upon his successful management of RJ, he was persuaded by the Government of Bahrain to assume the position of CEO of Gulf Air in 2009. His career began in 1979.\n\nHe attended Dean Close School and Cranfield University in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "43437293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43437293", "title": "School-Based Family Counseling", "text": "School-Based Family Counseling\n\nSchool-Based Family Counseling (SBFC) is an integrated approach to mental health intervention that focuses on both school and family in order to help children overcome personal problems and succeed at school. SBFC is practiced by a wide variety of mental health professionals, including: psychologists, social workers, school counselors, psychiatrists, and marriage and family therapists, as well as special education teachers. What they all share in common is the belief that children who are struggling in school can be best helped by interventions that link family and school. SBFC is typically practiced at the school site, but may be based in a community mental health agency that works in close collaboration with schools.\n\nFamily problems, such as marital discord, divorce, financial difficulties, child abuse and neglect, life-threatening illness, sibling in a gang, and poor parenting skills are associated with a wide variety of children's problems, e.g. delinquency, depression, suicide attempts, and substance abuse. These family problems can have a negative effect on children's learning and school behavior. However, there is research showing that healthy families that cope effectively with their problems help children succeed at school.\nTraditionally trained school counselors and school psychologists may lack the family counseling training necessary to help students who are experiencing problems at home. If school personnel recommend that a parent seek counseling from a community agency for family problems, the parent and family may not go because of the stigma associated with therapy or because of restrictions imposed by managed care.\nSBFC reduces the stigma associated with therapy by emphasizing that counseling for family members has an educational goal: helping the student to succeed at school. Parents, guardians, and family members are approached as partners with the SBFC professional, all working together to promote school success.The SBFC professional is an advocate for the child, the family, and the school.\nSome of the problems SBFC approaches have been used to address are:bullying and cyber-bullying, depression, marital problems, school violence, grief and loss, trauma, life-threatening illness, school crises, learning disorders, immigrant families, suicide, and school suspension.\nSome examples of large SBFC programs are: \"The Copper River Project\" in Copper River District Alaskan schools; and \"Place2Be\" - a SBFC program based in over 200 British schools.\n\nThe earliest pioneer of SBFC was Alfred Adler, the Austrian psychiatrist who developed 30 guidance clinics attached to schools in Vienna in the 1920s. Through these guidance clinics Adler and his colleagues counseled parents and teachers (often both together in large meetings where both groups were present) on how to help children overcome problems at home and school. This Adlerian home-school approach to counseling was strength-based with its emphasis on helping children develop Social Interest.\n\nWith the advent of World War II, the Vienna guidance clinics closed. The psychiatrist Rudolf Dreikurs, who worked with Adler, emigrated to the USA in the 1930s and popularized the Adlerian approach to home-school intervention through books like: Children the Challenge (for parents), Maintaining Sanity in the Classroom (for teachers), and Discipline Without Tears (for parents and teachers). In the USA, during the 1950s, 60's, and 70's the mental health professions developed somewhat independently of each other with the result that children having difficulty at school would typically be seen by a school counselor or school psychologist. Children having difficulty at home would typically be seen by a community-based mental health professional. Beginning in the 1970s the mental health literature begins to show an increasing emphasis on linking home and school interventions. By 2000 there existed a substantial literature on the integration of family and school counseling approaches.\n\nSBFC is a strength-based approach to counseling that emphasizes working with parents and guardians as partners. It emphasizes integrating intervention (remedial) and prevention approaches at school and in the family. This emphasis on working collaboratively with parents and guardians in order to help their children succeed in school is appealing to families because of its educational focus. SBFC is a multiculturally sensitive counseling approach because it reduces the stigma associated with the mental health professions. This approach is practiced by many different mental health professionals and educators.\n\nMost of the research supporting SBFC is descriptive and correlational. There is a need for rigorous randomized controlled trials of a variety of SBFC approaches. Traditional mental health profession academic programs tend to emphasize interventions that focus on school intervention or family intervention, but not both. The development of SBFC programs requires both cross-disciplinary and cross-cultural thinking and a willingness to set aside mental health professional \"turf\" issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "4580087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4580087", "title": "Sven Hagströmer", "text": "Sven Hagströmer\n\nSven Johan Gösta Barthen Hagströmer (born 30 November 1943) is a Swedish business executive, best known as the founder of Avanza Bank and investment company Creades. He is also the initiator of the non-profit organizations AllBright and Berättarministeriet.\n\nSven Hagströmer studied economics at Stockholm University. He was a portfolio manager at Gränges AB from 1969 to 1973 and at Investor from 1973 to 1980. He started the firm Sven Hagströmer Fondkommission AB in 1981. It later turned into the commercial bank Hagströmer & Qviberg, publicly known as HQ Bank. HQ Bank was the principal owner of Investment AB Öresund, which was divided into two companies in 2012. Business partners Sven Hagströmer and Mats Qviberg went separate ways and Sven Hagströmer became the principal owner of the newly formed investment company Creades. Amongst a number of directorships, he is now Chairman of the Board of both Avanza Bank and Creades. Sven Hagströmer is a dedicated entrepreneur and was one of the venture capitalist \"dragons\" in the Swedish version of the television program Dragons’ Den on SVT.\n\nSven Hagströmer is involved in various social projects, including Arbetsmäklarna at Tensta School where he helps young students get in touch with employers. He believes that Swedish companies are not doing enough to bring in people from other cultures. Hagströmer is opposed to the euro and was one of the initiators to the political party Junilistan. He believes that the euro reduces the Riksbank's influence over monetary policy. Sven Hagströmer is a relative of Raoul Wallenberg and he founded the Raoul Wallenberg Academy in 2012. He is a passionate book collector and founded the publishing agency Fri Tanke together with Christer Sturmark and Björn Ulvaeus in 2007. Sven Hagströmer is one of the initiators of Berättarministeriet, which runs writing workshops in areas with high unemployment rates. He is also committed to gender issues and is frequently seen in the public gender equality debate. In 2011 he founded the AllBright foundation that works in order to increase the number of women holding positions of power within the business sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "1416740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416740", "title": "Thomas Sim Lee", "text": "Thomas Sim Lee\n\nThomas Sim Lee (October 29, 1745 – November 9, 1819) was an American planter and statesman of Frederick County, Maryland. Although not a signatory to the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation or the US Constitution, he was an important participant in the process of their creation. Thomas Sim Lee was the second State Governor of Maryland, serving twice, from 1779 to 1783 and again from 1792 to 1794. Thomas Sim Lee also served as a delegate of Maryland in the Congress of the Confederation in 1783 and was a member of the House of Delegates in 1787. He worked closely with many of the Founding fathers and played himself an important part in the birth of his state and the nation.\nLee was born in 1745 in Upper Marlboro in the Province of Maryland. He was the son of Thomas (died 1749) and Christiana (Sim) Lee, a grandson of Philip Lee, and descended from the \"Blenheim\" Line of the Lee family of Virginia. Richard Lee I was his great-great-grandfather. His education was attained in the private schools of his native colony. On October 27, 1771, Thomas Sim Lee married Mary Digges (1745–1805), whose father was a prominent Maryland landowner. They had eight children;\n\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War, he backed the patriot cause, and organized a local militia in which he served as colonel. Lee entered politics in 1777, serving as a member of the Maryland Legislature, a position he held two years. The Maryland Legislature elected Lee governor in 1779. He was reelected in 1780 and 1781. During his first tenure, issues regarding the war effort were dealt with. He won wide praise for his logistical abilities as governor. Lee consistently procured fresh troops and supplies for the Continental Army. George Washington was Lee's friend, and learning of the plan to pin down Cornwallis, Lee exerted all his energies to support the American troops. After completing his term, Lee left office on November 22, 1782. He then served in the Continental Congress in 1783 and 1784, and was a member of the State convention that ratified the U.S. Constitution in 1788. In 1792, Lee was again elected governor of Maryland. He was reelected to a second term in 1793, and to a third term in 1794. During his final tenure, the state militia was established, and the Whiskey rebellion was suppressed. Lee left office on November 14, 1794. Later that same year, he declined a seat in the U.S. Senate. He also declined a third tenure as governor in 1798.\n\nThomas Sim Lee was one of the participants of the Annapolis Convention in the mid-1770s, which produced a constitution for Maryland and transformed the colony into a state. On July 26, 1775 he was one of the signatories of the Declaration of the Association of the Freemen of Maryland, an influential statement in the Revolutionary War.\n\nAs Governor of Maryland, Thomas Sim Lee signed the Act on February 2, 1781, whereby the Maryland Legislature ratified the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union. As Maryland was the 13th and final state to ratify the Articles, the act established the \"requisite unanimous consent\" for the formation of a Perpetual Union of the states.\n\nPrior to this event, Maryland had held out and refused to ratify the Articles until every state had ceded its western land claims. After Governor Thomas Jefferson signed the Act of the Virginia legislature on January 2, 1781 to grant these concessions the way forward for Maryland was cleared. On this second day of February, a Friday, as the last piece of business during the afternoon Session, \"among engrossed Bills\" was \"signed and sealed by the Governor, in the Senate Chamber, in the presence of the members of both Houses...an Act to empower the delegates of this state in Congress to subscribe and ratify the articles of confederation.\" The Senate then adjourned \"to the first Monday in August next\". The formal signing of the Articles by the Maryland delegates took place in Philadelphia at noon time on March 1, 1781. With these events, the Articles entered into force and the United States came into being as a united and sovereign nation.\n\nIn his post-governor career, Thomas Sim Lee represented Maryland as a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1783 and 1784. He also was a member of the house of delegates in 1787. He declined the opportunity to serve in the convention that drafted the Constitution of the United States, but served in the state convention that ratified the Constitution in 1788. Lee voted for Washington's second term as a Federalist presidential elector.\n\nGovernor Lee's wife, Mary Digges Lee, responded to the need of the Revolutionary War troops from Maryland by rallying the women of Maryland to raise money in support of the war effort. She then established a correspondence with General George Washington, asking how these resources could be put to best use. General Washington responded suggesting that the money raised be put toward the purchase of much-needed shirts and black neck clothes for the troops in the Southern army. He expressed gratitude to Mrs. Lee for the \"patriotic exertions of the ladies of Maryland in favor of the army\".\nThe couple was very active in patriotic activities during the Revolutionary War. They were also very committed to their religious and community ties. They founded the St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Petersville, Maryland.\n\nAfter retiring from political life in 1794, Governor Lee focused his attention on his estate, Needwood, in Frederick County, Maryland, where he owned some two hundred slaves.\n\nLee set up a winter home in Georgetown, near the nation's capital. Federalists frequented the home, which became a meeting place for them.\n\nThomas Sim Lee was on the Board of directors of the Patowmack Canal, which was intended by George Washington to connect the Tidewater near Georgetown with Cumberland. The project, which started in 1785, was completed in 1802.\n\nMary Digges Lee died on January 25, 1805 at the age of 60. Thomas Sim Lee remained a widower in Needwood until his death on November 9, 1819 at the age of 74 years. He was first buried at Melwood Park, his wife's family home. In 1888 his and the Melwood Diggeses' graves were moved to a common grave in Mt. Carmel Roman Catholic Cemetery near Upper Marlboro, Maryland.\n\nA bronze plaque commemorating his life has been placed on a house he built in 1790 on 3001–3009 M Street (on the corner of M Street and 30th Street) in the Georgetown section of Washington D.C.. The site is now referred to as the Thomas Sim Lee Corner.\n"}
{"id": "19107850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19107850", "title": "Tom Rooney (Florida politician)", "text": "Tom Rooney (Florida politician)\n\nThomas Joseph Rooney (born November 21, 1970) is an American politician who is the U.S. Representative for , a post he has held since 2013. He previously represented from 2009 to 2013. He is a member of the Republican Party.\n\nRooney announced in February 2018 that he is retiring from Congress and will not seek re-election in 2018.\n\nRooney was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. When Tom was 14 his father, Patrick J. Rooney Sr., moved to Palm Beach Gardens, Florida where the family owned a dog track and gambling business. He graduated from the Benjamin School in North Palm Beach, Florida in 1989. In college, Rooney played football for Syracuse University and Washington & Jefferson College outside of Pittsburgh where he earned his B.A. in English Literature. He was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.\n\nRooney attended the University of Florida where he received his M.A. in Political Science. After that he went to the University of Miami School of Law where he received his J.D. and met his wife Tara Lombardi. They became members of The Florida Bar Association in 1999.\n\nHe is not related to fellow Republican representative Francis Rooney.\n\nAfter law school, both Rooney and his wife joined the U.S. Army JAG Corps. In 2001, Tom and Tara, along with their newborn son, were stationed at Fort Hood on 9/11. Rooney spent over four years on Active Duty in the United States Army JAG Corps. He served as Special Assistant U.S Attorney at Fort Hood in Texas, prosecuting all civilian crimes on post. Rooney also served in the 1st Cavalry Division.\n\nIn 2002, Rooney began teaching Constitutional and Criminal Law as an Asst. Prof. in the Dept. of Law at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York. He received two Army Commendation Medals for his service. Tom and Tara Rooney each completed active duty with the rank of Captain.\n\nDuring his active duty time in the JAG Corps, he served with fellow future Congressman Patrick Murphy, a Democrat from Pennsylvania who was the first Iraq War veteran elected to the U.S. Congress.\n\nAs his first job out of college, Tom Rooney worked for U.S. Senator Connie Mack III, who had worked with Tom's father, Patrick J. Rooney Sr., at one time. Tom started in Senator Mack's mailroom: \"We opened every letter and that's where I learned what people's issues were. It really helped shape a blank slate in my life.\" After getting his Masters, he returned to Florida, where he went to work as an Assistant Attorney General. While working as a criminal prosecutor for Attorney General Charlie Crist, he joined the Board of Directors with \"The Children's Place at Home Safe,\" a Palm Beach County shelter that helps abused, neglected, and abandoned children. In 2005, Tom was named CEO of Home Safe and because of his work there, Governor Jeb Bush appointed Rooney to the Children's Services Council of Palm Beach County Board of Directors in January 2006. After his second year as director, Rooney returned to the Board of Directors of Children's Place and resumed his practice of law in Stuart, Florida with the law firm of Kramer, Sopko & Levenstein, P.A. He is a graduate of Leadership Palm Beach County.\n\nRooney challenged Democratic incumbent Tim Mahoney. Mahoney had narrowly won the Republican-leaning district in 2006, after five-term incumbent Mark Foley abruptly resigned under a cloud of scandal. Since Foley resigned a little more than a month before the election, Florida election law required Foley's name to remain on the general election ballot, with votes for him being transferred to his replacement, State Representative Joe Negron. It was widely believed that this significantly undermined Negron's chances, as many voters would be reluctant to cast a ballot in Foley's name.\n\nGiven Mahoney's narrow margin of victory, coupled with the unusual circumstances surrounding the 2006 election and this district's Republican bent, the 16th District was viewed as one of Republicans' best opportunities to take a congressional seat from the Democrats in 2008. In the Republican Party primary, Rooney was endorsed by Florida's Governor, Charlie Crist, and defeated State Representative Gayle Harrell and investment banker Hal Valeche. Mahoney, aided by incumbency and having burnished his image as a moderate Blue Dog Democrat, consistently led Rooney in polls throughout the 2008 election cycle until mid-October 2008, when it was revealed that Mahoney, who had promoted a family values image and campaigned against corruption in contrast to the disgraced Foley, had engaged in multiple extramarital affairs and secretly paid off his mistresses to conceal them. This revelation shifted the race decisively in Rooney's favor, even causing the \"Palm Beach Post\" to take the rare step of rescinding its previous endorsement of Mahoney and endorsing Rooney instead.\n\nRooney ran unopposed in the Republican primary. In the general election, he defeated Democratic nominee Jim Horn and write-in candidate William Dean.\n\nFor his first two terms, Rooney represented a district stretching from the Treasure Coast through the Everglades to Port Charlotte on the other side of the state. Redistricting, however, saw the 16th renumbered as the 18th District and made significantly more compact. It lost most of its heavily Republican western portion to the new 17th District, which stretched from the Everglades to the outer suburbs of Tampa. Rooney opted to run for reelection in the 17th. He retained roughly one-third of his previous constituents. Most of them lived in the western portion of the old 16th. He sold his home in Tequesta, which remained in the 18th, and bought a home in Okeechobee as his official residence in the new 17th.\n\nIn the August 14 Republican primary—the real contest in this heavily Republican district—Rooney faced Joe Arnold, a Republican state committeeman for Okeechobee County and member of the school board. Rooney defeated Arnold in a landslide, getting 74% of vote. Rooney ran in the general election against a retired airline pilot, Democrat William Bronson (formerly an unsuccessful Republican candidate in Massachusetts and Georgia) as well as Socialist Workers Party write-in candidate Tom Baumann (who ran unsuccessful campaigns in Minnesota and in the Borough of Manhattan).\n\nRooney received endorsements in Florida from Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam, U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, U.S. Reps. Allen West and Dennis A. Ross as well as from the National Rifle Association. In their Saturday, October 13, edition the \"Tampa Bay Times\" recommended Tom Rooney for the District 17 seat, and on October 19, \"The Tampa Tribune\" endorsed him. \"The Bradenton Herald\" recommended Rooney on 26 October.\n\nOne of the first bills Rooney introduced in the House was to prevent any money being spent to bring prisoners to Florida from the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. Another was a bill he co-sponsored to try to reduce the number of military veteran suicides by mandating mental health screenings for returning troops. Although that bill did not pass, the military eventually adopted the reforms Rooney asked for. Rooney has been recognized by the city of Stuart, Florida for his efforts to prevent veteran suicides.\n\nRooney sponsored a bill to name a federal courthouse under construction in Fort Pierce in honor of a St. Lucie County rancher, and former Florida Supreme Court Chief Justice, Alto Lee Adams Sr.; Rooney's bill was approved by the House in September 2009, but was not passed by the Senate until September 2012, when the new courthouse had been open for eight months.\n\nSince 2009, Rooney has personally presented Congressional Award medals to young people in his district.\n\nIn April 2011, House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, traveled to Iraq with Rooney and four other members, who met with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Ambassador James Franklin Jeffrey. Rooney said that they discussed with Maliki how the United States and Iraq might interact diplomatically after the U.S. troop withdrawal scheduled for December of that year.\nOn the evening of February 19, 2012, a man crashed his pickup truck into Rooney's Stuart, Florida office. No one was inside the building at the time. The man claimed he tried to park in front of the building, but instead of pressing the brake, accidentally pressed the accelerator. The driver was cited for careless driving by the Stuart Police Department.\n\nRooney, as Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry, introduced The Defense of Environment and Property Act in March 2012. This act would make changes to federal water regulations and prevent some prosecutions of farmers and landowners by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the United States Army Corps of Engineers. In response to an expansion of federal power to regulate wetlands in a 2011 EPA and Army Corps document that redefined \"navigable waters,\" the Rooney bill defines navigable waters to exclude \"wetlands without a continuous surface connection\" to a body of water. The Rooney bill is a companion to a Senate bill introduced by Rand Paul.\n\nA June 2011 bill to defund U.S. operations in Libya was written by Rooney, but defeated on the floor of the House because 89 Republicans voted against it. Rooney accepted responsibility for defeat of the bill, which was in competition with a non-binding resolution to deny President Barack Obama authority to wage war against Libya, saying \"It was my bill. You can blame me. I think we tried to limit funds so our kids weren't in harm's way but not leave NATO on their own. People either wanted all or they wanted nothing.\"\n\nOn 13 September 2012, Rooney said that Obama should be blamed for attacks on U.S. embassies in the Middle East because the violence, and the deaths of four Americans in the U.S. Consulate attack in Benghazi, was foreseeable: \"We supported the rebels without taking into account their individual values or motives, and without understanding their ability or plan to govern. We helped these individuals topple a dictator, but then stood on the sidelines as radical extremists assumed power. It should come as no surprise that these movements in the region have given way to violent, anti-American actions.\"\n\nAlthough most of the voters in Rooney's old 16th District were in the new 18th District, in January 2012 Rooney announced that he would run for the neighboring 17th Congressional District seat, while Allen West declared in the new 18th. Redistricting had made West's old 22nd District, which already had a modest Democratic lean, even more Democratic, and West wanted to run in a friendlier district. As previously mentioned, Rooney's former district had been made somewhat friendlier to Democrats, and he opted to run in a more conservative district that included a large chunk of his old district's western portion.\n\nIn announcing his decision to run for reelection in Rooney's Congressional district, Allen West said:\n\nI have always believed the state of Florida would be best served by having both Congressman Tom Rooney and myself in the House of Representatives working to solve our nation's most pressing problems. I have never wavered from my vision; to work to create jobs, restrain federal government spending, reduce America's ever increasing national debt, and provide for a strong national defense to ensure a safer and more prosperous future for our children and grandchildren. Congressman Rooney is a statesman and has been an honorable public servant to the constituents of Florida's 16th Congressional district. It is my goal to continue the success Congressman Rooney has had in Florida's 16th Congressional district in the newly proposed 18th district.\n\n\n\nRooney has a score of 71% from Heritage Action for America regarding his conservative voting record, which is above the Republican House average.\n\nRooney favors agricultural subsidies, including crop insurance and sugar price supports, so that food production in this country can better compete with other countries that provide government subsidies to their farmers. Rooney explained that \"I don't want our country to depend on Mexico for our food, and I don't want Florida to lose agriculture jobs that we really need.\"\n\nRooney fought to remove spending for an alternate engine program (built by GE Aviation and Rolls-Royce plc) for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. The Pentagon had already taken the position that having a single contractor (Pratt & Whitney) will save money. \"The Pentagon has said repeatedly that they do not want it and do not need it, and the American taxpayers certainly cannot afford it,\" Rooney said.\n\nRooney sponsored an amendment to the 2012 House spending bill to end funding for the extra engine of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which passed with support from freshman members of the Tea Party Caucus. In December 2011 GE abandoned self-funding to continue development of its alternate engine, finally ending the project. Rooney said that the decision by GE \"will finally remove any risk that taxpayers may be saddled with the costs of sustaining an extra engine in the future.\"\n\nRooney criticised Justin Amash in May 2012, accusing the Michigan Republican of wanting to \"coddle foreign enemy combatants\" because he proposed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to stop the military from indefinitely detaining suspected terrorists who were caught in the United States. Amash and Congressman Adam Smith said they worried about civil liberties and the constitutionality of allowing indefinite detention of U.S. residents suspected of being terrorists. A Rooney press release said that \"the Amash amendment sacrifices our national security in order to coddle foreign enemy combatants. Never in our nation's history have we granted enemy combatants who attack our homeland during a time of war the same rights and privileges of American citizens, but that's exactly what the Amash amendment would do.\" Rooney's press release was criticised in turn by a statement from Ron Paul's Campaign for Liberty which accused Rooney of being \"disgracefully dishonest.\"\n\nFinally, Rooney issued a statement of support for a competing amendment to the NDAA by congressmen Jeff Landry, Louie Gohmert and Scott Rigell: \"The Landry/Gohmert/Rigell amendment explicitly re-affirms and protects the constitutional rights of American citizens, and states clearly that no citizens' constitutional rights can be denied under the provisions of the defense bill... While it's critical that we protect the rights of American citizens, we should absolutely not exploit legitimate concerns in a misguided effort to extend our rights and privileges to foreign terrorists who attack our homeland.\" The Amash/Smith amendment was defeated and the Landry/Gohmert/Rigell amendment was adopted, both by large margins.\n\nOn June 13, 2012, Rooney was one of five members of Congress (including Michele Bachmann, Trent Franks, Louie Gohmert and Lynn Westmoreland) to send letters to the Inspectors General of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice and the Department of State seeking investigations into what they claimed was the U.S. government's involvement with the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nOne of the letters in particular to Ambassador Harold W. Geisel, the Deputy Inspector General of the United States Department of State, used the Department's Deputy Chief of Staff, Huma Abedin, as an example of the undue influence. The letter said that Abedin \"has three family members–her late father, her mother and her brother–connected to Muslim Brotherhood operatives and/or organizations,\" referring to a study by the Center for Security Policy.\n\nRepublican Senators John McCain, Lindsey Graham, and Scott Brown, as well as Bachmann's former campaign chief Ed Rollins defended Abedin against these allegations.\nSpeaker of the House John Boehner told reporters: \"I don't know Huma. But from everything that I do know of her, she has a sterling character, and I think accusations like this being thrown around are pretty dangerous.\" Congressman Mike Simpson condemned the letter as a revival of McCarthyism, telling the \"Idaho Statesman\": \"Unfortunately, it's not just Michele. The public says, 'There go those Republicans again.' It's a bad reflection on all Republicans. I can't believe the other four members she got to sign the letter with her. Amazing... That doesn't reflect the House Republican Caucus.\"\n\nAn editorial in Scripps Treasure Coast Newspapers also brought up the ghost of McCarthyism, explicitly pronouncing disappointment in Rooney. On the other hand, Newt Gingrich argued in favor of investigation into the Muslim Brotherhood, characterizing Rooney and the rest as the \"National Security Five.\" Columnist Cal Thomas shrugged off the specter of McCarthyism, and said that the real possibility of infiltration by Islamic extremists deserves to be investigated.\n\nResponding to her critics, Bachmann said that \"The concerns I have and my colleagues have are real,\" and \"We cannot elevate political correctness over national security.\" Rooney expressed similar concerns: \"As a member of the House Armed Services and Intelligence committees, my top priority is ensuring the security of our nation.\" And that \"I regret that Mrs. Abedin has become the media focus of this story, because the intention of the letters was to bring greater attention to the legitimate national security risk.\" A couple of months later, Rooney admitted that it was an unfortunate mistake to include Mrs. Abedin: \"What got lost was a legitimate question, for the sake of using Congressman (Anthony) Weiner's wife and Sec. Clinton's assistant's name specifically in a letter.\"\n\nDuring an October campaign stop in Florida to support Mitt Romney, John McCain acknowledged that Rooney and Bachmann had realized that including Abedin's name in the letter to the State Department was a mistake. McCain then softened his earlier criticism from the Senate floor, saying \"I'm concerned, and they're concerned and I agree with them, about the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood. I'm not saying all members of the Muslim Brotherhood are extremists, but I am saying there are some extremists that are members of the Muslim Brotherhood. ... There is definitely a threat of radical Muslim extremism, some of whom are Muslim Brotherhood—not all, by far.\"\n\nNitrogen and phosphorus pollution provide nutrients that can cause algae blooms, which in turn produce toxins harmful to humans and animals across the state of Florida. Approximately 1,900 miles of rivers and streams in the state were impaired for nutrients in 2010, up from approximately 1,000 miles in 2008. Impaired acres of lakes in Florida were 378,000 in 2010, up from 350,000 acres in 2008.\n\nIn 2008 the public interest law firm Earthjustice sued the EPA on behalf of five environmental groups, claiming that delays by both state and federal governments in establishing quantitaive (rather than qualitative) limits for nutrient pollution of Florida's waters were unacceptable. In August 2009 the Obama administration settled the lawsuit by agreeing to begin the process of imposing enforceable EPA standards for nutrient levels in the public waters of Florida.\n\nNumerical nutrient level standards announced in November 2010 provoked the State of Florida to fight back by suing the EPA (enraging Earthjustice and environmentalists). Florida's outgoing (Bill McCollum) and incoming (Pam Bondi) Attorneys General, as well as the outgoing (Charles H. Bronson) and incoming (Adam Putnam) Agriculture Commissioners said that the EPA standards \"are not based on scientifically sound methodology, and were adopted in an arbitrary and capricious manner just to settle a lawsuit.\" The EPA said that the regulations would not be implemented for 15 months.\n\nOne year later, Earthjustice counterattacked by filing suit against the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP) claiming that the state agency had failed to protect Floridians and tourists from toxic algae outbreaks. Judge Bram Canter of the Florida Division of Administrative Hearings ruled against the Earthjustice lawsuit in June, 2012. The Obama administration then announced that EPA enforcement would be delayed until 2013, and that the EPA may defer to FDEP regulations.\n\nAfter the EPA said that it would establish numeric nutrient levels for waters in the state of Florida, as part of the 2009 consent decree with Earthjustice, Rooney led the state's congressional delegation by writing a letter asking the EPA to work with the state as it formulated rules for Florida. Rooney explained:\n\nFlorida has spent over $19 million and several years collecting the necessary data, sound science and community input to develop standards that are realistic and attainable for Florida. As the EPA begins to establish nutrient levels for Florida waters, it is important for the state to be a part of the decision process and to use the invaluable information that has been collected. This bipartisan letter signed by twenty-five members of our delegation simply asks EPA to work with Florida and utilize its data.\" \n\nFollowing the January 2010 publication of proposed EPA rules for Florida, Rooney said: \"There are still too many questions that must be answered regarding the science used by the EPA.\" Rooney and other members of Florida's Congressional delegation met with EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson in March, concerning the proposed Numeric Nutrient rules. At that meeting the agency agreed to extend the public comment period and to hold three more public meetings in Florida. Rooney also told Jackson that he was concerned, inasmuch as she had failed to meet personally with Florida Department of Environmental Protection Secretary Michael Sole. Rooney said: \"While there was progress in some areas the EPA proposal will have massive repercussions throughout our state. Therefore, this is something we cannot rush head-first into without knowing all the facts and science.\" Rooney pointed to studies concluding that the proposed rule would take $2 billion out of Florida's economy, and urged the EPA to do an economic analysis of the rule. He also called for the EPA to allow an independent, scientific review of the rule, which the EPA refused to do.\n\nAn April, 2010 report by the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, in conjunction with professors at the University of Florida Food and Resource Economics Department, and with Soil and Water Engineering Technology, Inc. concluded that compliance with the proposed numeric nutrient rule would subject 13.6 million acres of agriculture to direct costs of from $902 million to $1.605 billion annually, and indirect economic impacts of $1.148 billion per year to the state of Florida. \"This report confirms what we have all feared. The economic ramifications of this proposed rule would be devastating to our state,\" Rooney said. In August, Rooney again called for delay of final federal rulemaking, pending the results of a third-party analysis, in a bipartisan letter from Florida's Congressional delegation to Lisa Jackson.\n\nIn September, a federal judge temporarily stopped the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from imposing federal water quality standards on former croplands in the Everglades, ruling that the Corps had changed its rules about water quality standards on former croplands without proper public notice and hearing. In December, 2010, Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum and Attorney General-elect Pam Bondi decided to file a lawsuit against the EPA regarding its proposed numeric nutrient rule. Rooney endorsed that decision, saying that \"this lawsuit will put a stop to the EPA's misguided assaults on Florida's families and industries.\" Senator George LeMieux also endorsed the legal challenge to the EPA rule for Florida.\n\nAfter Lisa Jackson appeared before the House Agriculture Committee in March 2011, Rooney said: \"In all the hearings I've attended as a member of Congress, I've never been to one like Lisa Jackson's appearance before the House Agriculture Committee. All the members of the committee—Republicans and Democrats—were up in arms over the EPA's agenda. I've never seen a witness from the administration get attacked like that from members of the president's own party.\" Rooney sent a letter thanking Jackson for her promise that the EPA would cooperate with the state of Florida (and their Congressional delegation) to come up with reasonable nutrient levels, and for allowing both scientific review and economic analysis of the new regulations. Rooney's letter also asked the following questions:\n\nRooney and Senator Marco Rubio were criticised in the press for \"siding with polluters\" and \"greedy business interests,\" leading Rooney and Rubio to co-author an article explaining that \"half of the Democrats in Florida's House delegation supported our amendment to prevent the EPA from enforcing this new mandate until they complete an independent study of the science and a thorough economic analysis\" and that Lisa Jackson had recently committed to having the EPA work with Florida's DEP. Although the Rooney amendment was eventually dropped, the EPA agreed to a one-year delay of new water rules and that the National Academy of Sciences would conduct an unbiased review of the EPA cost estimate.\n\nRooney was criticized in an editorial for voting for a House bill sponsored by John Mica that would prohibit tightening water pollutant limits without a state's consent, a bill that the EPA protested would \"overturn almost 40 years of federal legislation by preventing EPA from protecting public health and water quality.\" In an October 2011 column, Rooney justified congressional review of EPA regulations, reduction of red tape and interference with new mandates as a means to \"get the federal government off the backs of famers.\"\n\nRooney welcomed amended rules for numeric nutrient standards, approved in December by the Florida Environmental Regulation Commission and submitted to the EPA. After final approval by the EPA, the federal standards would then be withdrawn. The EPA acknowledged that \"states have the primary role in establishing and implementing water quality standards for their waters.\" In June 2012, Florida submitted, and the EPA approved, a plan to improve water quality in the Everglades.\n\nRooney voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The bill includes disaster relief aid for Florida citrus growers who suffered loss due to Hurricane Irma, which Rooney calls a \"big win.\"\n\nRooney characterizes himself as a \"champion for Second Amendment rights,\" saying that the right to bear arms is \"one of our most sacred rights.\"\nAs of 2017, Rooney has an \"A-\" rating from the NRA, indicating a voting record that is generally pro-gun rights.\nAs a Congressman, Rooney has voted in favor of several pieces of legislation to expand gun rights, including a yes vote on H. R. 38 (the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act), which would enable concealed carry reciprocity among all States if and when it is signed into law.\nOf the Act, Rooney said, \"Just as a driver's license would be recognized in another state, a person who is legally permitted to carry a concealed handgun for their or their loved ones' own protection should have that ability anywhere in our nation.\"\nIn March 2017, Rooney voted in favor of the Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act, which, if signed into law, will allow veterans who are considered \"mentally incompetent\" to purchase ammunition and firearms unless declared a danger by a judge.\nRooney also voted in favor of H.J.Res.40, which successfully used the Congressional Review Act to block implementation of an Obama-era Amendment to the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 that was aimed at preventing the mentally-infirm from legally purchasing firearms.\n\nIn 2015, Rooney signed a letter to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives objecting to a proposed ban of a certain rifle cartridge due to its armor-piercing capabilities.\nIn the letter, it states that \"the idea that Congress intended LEOPA to ban one of the preeminent rifle cartridges in use by Americans for legitimate purposes is preposterous.\"\nThe attempt to ban the cartridges was abandoned shortly thereafter.\n\nRooney opened up more about his opinions on gun lobbyist groups after his February 2018 announcement that he would not be seeking reelection.\nRooney stated that even supporting a bump stock ban after the 2017 Las Vegas shooting was akin to \"political suicide\" and that \"the NRA has an extremely sophisticated ability to either help you or hurt you from being able to continue to call yourself 'Congressman.'\"\nRooney also questioned the role of AR-15 style rifles in society, saying \"What is the purpose of that gun, especially one with a bump stock on it?\"\n\nTom Rooney is a grandson of Pittsburgh Steelers founder Art Rooney Sr., a nephew of Pittsburgh Steelers owner and ambassador to Ireland Dan Rooney, and a first cousin, once removed, of actresses Kate Mara and Rooney Mara.\n\nRooney's younger brother, Brian J. Rooney, has a seat on the Pittsburgh Steelers Board of Directors which was previously held by their father. Brian, a veteran of the Iraq War, is a Deputy Director of Michigan Department of Human Services, and was a candidate in 2010 for Congress in Michigan's 7th congressional district. Tom's older brother, Patrick Rooney, Jr., serves in the Florida House of Representatives in District 83.\n\nTom, Tara and their three sons (Tommy, Sean, Seamus) formerly split their time between Tequesta, Florida and Washington, D.C. Rooney decided to run in the new District 17, and he promised to move into that district, but told \"The Ledger\" that he and his wife had not yet decided on which city. Rooney planned to move to Charlotte County, but he said that \"I'm leaving where I grew up. That's the hardest thing.\" Charlotte County has the largest percentage of voters in the newly-drawn district, and includes the city of Punta Gorda (where Rooney has his campaign office and one of his Congressional offices) as well as the larger, but unincorporated Port Charlotte as well as other unincorporated communities. The Rooneys ended up selling their Tequesta home and purchasing a home in Okeechobee.\n\nTom's grandfather, Art Rooney, bought the Palm Beach Kennel Club in West Palm Beach in 1969 and his father ran the business as president from 1984 until recently, when his brother, Patrick J. Rooney Jr., became president of the club. Tom Rooney lists ownership of stock in family businesses in his congressional financial disclosure form. Rooney has said that he has neither operational nor ownership responsibilities, and the stock is part of a trust with his children as beneficiaries. In 2010, Rooney stood at 346th place in terms of net worth among the members of the U.S. House.\n\nThe Palm Beach Kennel Club serves the product of yet another family business, Rooney's Old Irish Ale. The Palm Beach County Commission has approved a referendum for the November 2012 ballot to decide whether slot machines will be allowed at the Palm Beach Kennel Club. Tom's cousin Joe Rooney is a spokesman for, as well as Co-Chair and Treasurer of the coalition supporting the Palm Beach County slot machines referendum. Other Florida counties have put slot machine referendums on the November ballot, but Attorney General Palm Bondi issued an opinion that current state law does not allow slots outside of Miami-Dade and Broward counties. Joe Rooney said Palm Beach County will have several paths to follow if the referendum succeeds, including legislation and legal action.\n\nIn 2014 Rooney made a cameo appearance as a farmer in Walt Before Mickey starring Thomas Ian Nicholas, Jon Heder, and Armando Gutierrez.\n\n"}
{"id": "356861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356861", "title": "William Dawes", "text": "William Dawes\n\nWilliam Dawes Jr. (April 6, 1745 – February 25, 1799) was one of several men and a woman in April 1775 who alerted colonial minutemen in Massachusetts of the approach of British army troops prior to the Battles of Lexington and Concord at the outset of the American Revolution. For some years, Paul Revere had the most renown for his ride of warning of this event.\n\nDawes was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on April 6, 1745, to William and Lydia Dawes (née Boone), and baptized at Boston's Old South Church. He became a tanner and was active in Boston's militia. On May 3, 1768, Dawes married Mehitable May, the daughter of Samuel and Catherine May (née Mears). The \"Boston Gazette\" noted that for his wedding, he wore a suit entirely made in North America. At the time, Whigs were trying to organize a boycott of British products to pressure Parliament into repealing the Townshend Acts.\n\nOn April 8, 1768, Dawes was elected as a member of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company of Massachusetts. He was appointed as the Company's second sergeant in 1770. When the Company was revived in 1786, after becoming dormant during the American Revolution, he was appointed as the Company clerk. His father, William Dawes Sr., was also a member of the Company.\n\nIt is likely that in September 1774, Dawes was instrumental in helping Boston's militia artillery company secure its four small cannons from British army control. The Massachusetts Provincial Congress certainly sent word to him in February 1775 that it was time to move two of those weapons out of Boston.\n\nDawes was assigned by Doctor Joseph Warren to ride from Boston to Lexington, Massachusetts, on the night of April 18, 1775, when it became clear that a British column was going to march into the countryside. Dawes's mission was to warn John Hancock and Samuel Adams that they were in danger of arrest. Dawes took the land route out of Boston through the Boston Neck, leaving just before the British military sealed off the town.\n\nAlso acting under Dr. Warren, Paul Revere arranged for another rider waiting across the Charles River in Charlestown to be told of the army's route with lanterns hung in Old North Church. To be certain the message would get through, Revere rowed across the river and started riding westward himself. Later, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's historically inaccurate poem \"Paul Revere's Ride\" would focus entirely on Revere, making him a composite of the many alarm riders that night.\n\nDawes and Revere arrived at the Hancock-Clarke House in Lexington about the same time, shortly after midnight. Revere arrived slightly earlier, despite having stopped to speak to militia officers in towns along the way, as his route was shorter and his horse faster. After warning Adams and Hancock to leave, Revere and Dawes proceeded to Concord in case that was the British column's goal. Revere no doubt knew that the Provincial Congress had stored munitions there, including the cannon which Dawes had helped to secure. Along the way, the two men met Samuel Prescott, a local young physician, who joined them.\n\nA squad of mounted British officers awaited on the road between Lexington and Concord. They had already arrested some riders heading west with news of the troops, and they called for Dawes, Revere, and Prescott to halt. The three men rode in different directions, hoping one would escape. Dawes, according to the story he told his children, rode into the yard of a house shouting that he had lured two officers there. Fearing an ambush, the officers stopped chasing him. Dawes's horse bucked him off, however, and he had to walk back to Lexington. He later said that in the morning, he returned to the same yard and found the watch that had fallen from his pocket. Otherwise, Dawes's activity during the Battle of Lexington and Concord remains unknown.\n\nDawes and his companions' warnings allowed the town militias to muster a sufficient force for the first open battle of the American Revolutionary War and the first colonial victory. The British troops did not find most of the weapons they had marched to destroy, and sustained serious losses during their retreat to Boston while under attack by the colonists.\n\nOn September 9, 1776 Dawes was commissioned second major of the Boston militia regiment.\n\nAlso during the war, Dawes worked as a quartermaster in central Massachusetts. British POWs from the Battle of Saratoga complained to Parliament that he gave them short supplies; his family countered that Dawes believed that they were stealing from farmers while being marched to Boston – as most armies on the march were prone to do.\n\nDawes refused to join a punitive expedition against Indians ordered by Governor Phillip in December 1790.\n\nMehitable died in 1793, but he remarried (to Lydia) two years later. \n\nDawes died in Marlborough, Massachusetts, on February 25, 1799. He was believed to have been buried in the King's Chapel Burying Ground, but modern research points to his resting place now being in his first wife's family plot in Forest Hills Cemetery in Jamaica Plain.\n\nThe poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, \"Paul Revere's Ride\", has been criticized by modern historians for overstating the role of Revere in the night's events. Revere's may have been a better story, but Dawes and Prescott were more successful in achieving their missions. In 1896 Helen F. Moore, dismayed that William Dawes had been forgotten, penned a parody of Longfellow's poem.\nThe difference in Revere's and Dawes's achievement and legacy is examined by Malcolm Gladwell in his book \"The Tipping Point\", where he concludes that Revere would be classified as a connector whereas Dawes was an \"ordinary man.\"\n\nDawes's ride is commemorated on a traffic island in Cambridge, Massachusetts, heavily travelled by pedestrians, at the intersection of Garden Street and Massachusetts Avenue in Harvard Square, and known as \"Dawes Island\". Dawes's passage through the area is represented by bronze horseshoes embedded in the sidewalk, as hoofprints, accompanied by an inscription giving his name and the date (inaccurately stated as April 19, 1775), and by historical displays.\n\nIn the film \"Knowing\", the early events take place in Lexington, Massachusetts, at William Dawes Elementary School.\n\nWilliam Dawes' great-grandson, Rufus Dawes, was a Civil War military officer and congressman. Rufus Dawes' children included Charles G. Dawes, who served as Vice President of the United States under Calvin Coolidge, Rufus C. Dawes, a businessman, Beman Gates Dawes, a businessman and congressman, and Henry M. Dawes, a businessman and banker. Television personality Bill Schulz is another descendant of Dawes, as the grandson of Henry M. Dawes' daughter Mary.\n\nWilliam Dawes was also a first cousin of Thomas Dawes, who was a Revolutionary War colonel, a noted architect/builder, and held numerous government positions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899496", "title": "Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation", "text": "Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation\n\nThe Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation was adopted by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 1999 as ILO Recommendation No 190. The provisions of this Recommendation supplement those of the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (Convention No 182, referred to below as ‘the Convention’) and should be applied in conjunction with them. This article should be read together with that on the Convention.\n\nThe provisions of the Recommendation include the following:\n"}
{"id": "52055676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52055676", "title": "Yossi Maiman", "text": "Yossi Maiman\n\nYossi Maiman (born February 8, 1946) also known as Josef Maiman, is a German-born Israeli businessman. He is the founder and owner of the Merhav Group, and a shareholder of the East Mediterranean Gas Company. He is a former majority shareholder of Channel 10, an Israeli television channel. He is the former owner, chairman, chief executive officer and president of the Ampal-American Israel Corporation.\n\nYossi Maiman was born in a displaced persons camp in Landsberg am Lech, Bavaria, Germany. He is of Polish Jewish descent on his maternal side. His mother, Esfira Maiman, is a Holocaust survivor from Lodz; she escaped from the Warsaw Ghetto and hid in Grodzisk Mazowiecki during World War II. Her first husband was murdered by the Nazis. (In 2008, the Roman Catholic woman who saved her, Stanislawa Slawinska, was honored by Yad Vashem as Righteous Among the Nations.) After she remarried to Maiman's father, the family moved to Peru, where Maiman grew up. They emigrated to Israel in 1972.\n\nMaiman graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Texas at El Paso. He earned a master of arts degree in economics from Cornell University.\n\nMaiman founded the Merhav Group in 1975. He serves its president and chief executive officer. Through a subsidiary, it invests in sugarcane and ethanol production, It also owns a concession from the Egyptian government to export natural gas to Israel. Additionally, it \"modernized a refinery in Turkmenistan\" and a \"water treatment and sewage systems in Venezuela\".\n\nMaiman acquired the Ampal-American Israel Corporation from Beny Steinmetz for US $174 million in 2002. He served as its chairman from 2002 to 2013, and as its president and chief executive officer from 2006 to 2013. According to \"Globes\", Maiman stepped down as a result of losses incurred in the wake of the Egyptian revolution of 2011, when contracts for the distribution of gas between Egypt and Israel fell through.\n\nMaiman invested in Channel 10, an Israeli television channel, in 2003, becoming the largest shareholder alongside Arnon Milchan, Ron Lauder and Rupert Murdoch. However, he divested from the channel in 2009. Additionally, Maiman served as the chairman of Eltek, a manufacturer of printed circuit boards (publicly traded on the NASDAQ as \"ELTK\"), and Gadot. He is a shareholder of the East Mediterranean Gas Company.\n\nMaiman is the owner of Ecoteva Consulting, a real estate development and rental company in Peru. The company was founded in 2009 or 2011. After former president Alejandro Toledo was indicted on allegations of corruption over the purchase of property via the company in 2013, whereby he might have taken bribes from the Brazilian companies Camargo Corrêa and Odebrecht for the construction of the Interoceanic Highway, the company was accused of money laundering via an offshore company based in Costa Rica; the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority said the money went from Confiado International Corp, a Panama-based company, to Costa Rica. By 2015, Maiman responded by saying he was the victim of a smear campaign. The two men, alongside Tolerado's wife, Eliane Karp, and three others, were summoned to court in 2016. During the trial, the prosecutor, Marco Cárdenas, suggested Maiman's financial privacy should be lifted to complete his investigation.\n\nMaiman served as the honorary consul of Israel to Peru and the Special Ambassador of Israel to Turkmenistan. He serves on the board of governors of Tel Aviv University.\n\nMaiman is married, and he has three children. He resides in Herzliya, Israel, where he owns two properties, one of which is in Herzliya Pituah. He also owns apartments in Miami and New York in the United States, and two yachts, one of which he sold in 2012.\n"}
