{"id": "4110820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4110820", "title": "1932 Salvadoran peasant massacre", "text": "1932 Salvadoran peasant massacre\n\nThe 1932 Salvadoran peasant massacre occurred on January 22 of that year, in the western departments of El Salvador when a brief peasant-led rebellion was suppressed by the government, then led by Maximiliano Hernández Martínez. The Salvadoran army, being vastly superior in terms of weapons and soldiers, executed those who stood against it. The rebellion was a mixture of protest and insurrection which ended in ethnocide, claiming the lives of an estimated 10,000 and 40,000 peasants and other civilians, many of them indigenous people.\n\nSocial unrest in El Salvador had begun to grow in the 1920s, primarily because of the perceived abuses of the political class, and the broad social inequality between the landowners and the peasants. A U.S. Army officer stated in 1931 that, \"there appears to be nothing between these high-priced cars, and the oxcart with its barefoot attendant. There is practically no-middle class.\" The policies of the latifundia had left 90 percent of the country's land in the hands of 14 families, 'los catorce', who used the land for the cultivation of the cash-crop coffee.\n\nThe Salvadoran economy had largely depended on the coffee bean during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, so much so that this period is known as the \"Coffee Republic\" era. The national coffee-growing industry had grown with the accumulation of riches of a small group of landowners and merchants who had purchased large portions of land and employed a great number of peasants, many of whom were indigenous. Working conditions at the haciendas were very poor. By 1930, pay consisted of two tortillas and two spoonfuls of beans at the beginning and end of each day. Furthermore, workers were paid in scrip which could only be redeemed at stores controlled by the plantation owners. This led to local monopolies which drove up the price of food. It is estimated that food costs for laborers were no more than $0.01 per day, creating considerable profits for plantation owners.\n\nIn 1932, the head of a U.S. delegation in San Salvador, W.J. McCafferty, wrote a letter to his government explaining the Salvadoran situation, stating that farm animals were worth more than workers as they were in high demand and had better commercial value.\n\nThe global economic situation caused by the Great Depression fostered the lack of opportunities in countries such as El Salvador. Due to the drop in coffee prices, several haciendas were closed and many peasants lost their jobs, creating deep economic turmoil. Although the crisis affected people all over the country (and almost all of Latin America), the crisis was more acute in western El Salvador. The policies of presidents Pío Romero Bosque and Arturo Araujo had stripped almost all land from the local peasants. This area was heavily populated by the indigenous Pipils. The indigenous people, separated from the scarce economic progress, sought help from their own leaders. Although the law did not grant any powers or official recognition of the caciques, the natives respected and obeyed their authority. The political class had often sought the approval of the caciques in order to gain support of their people during elections.\n\nIn order to alleviate the economic crisis, the Pipil had organized themselves into cooperative partnerships, through which employment was provided in exchange for their participation in Catholic festivities. The cacicques led these partnerships, and represented the unemployed before the authorities and supervised their work. Feliciano Ama, for example, was one of the most active caciques and was highly esteemed by the indigenous population. Ama had arranged for economic assistance from president Romero in exchange for supporting his candidacy. On the other hand, the crisis intensified due to the permanent conflict between the indigenous and non-indigenous populations. Naturally, the non-indigenous people had better relations with the government; when riots or fighting occurred, it was indigenous leaders who were arrested and sentenced to death.\n\nThe rebellion was also preceded by political instability. El Salvador had been ruled since 1871 by economic liberal elites who had presided over a long period of relative stability. By World War I, the presidency effectively rotated between the Meléndez and Quiñónez families in quasi-dynastic succession. In 1927, Pío Romero Bosque was elected President and embarked on political liberalisation that led to what was arguably the first free election in Salvadoran history, which was held in 1931.\n\nArturo Araujo was elected during the 1931 elections, amid a severe economic crisis. After a military coup, vice president Maximiliano Hernández Martínez assumed control of the country in December 1931, marking the beginning of El Salvador’s military dictatorship. Hernández Martínez’s regime was characterized by the severity of its laws and punishments. For example, theft was punished with the amputation of a hand. Martínez strengthened police forces and was especially aggressive in matters of rebellion, issuing the death penalty against anyone who opposed the regime.\n\nThough Martínez's rule may have satisfied the military, popular discontent continued to build and the government's opponents continued to agitate. Within weeks, communists, believing the country was ready for a peasant rebellion, were plotting an insurrection against Martínez.\n\nMany incidents and situations directly influenced the conflict. On one side, the Salvadoran Army was organized to fend off any uprisings. The peasants (indigenous and non-indigenous) were beginning to rise up against the local authorities in an unorganized manner. Finally, the Communist Party of El Salvador (PCS) became involved in activities which led to the uprising.\n\nThe army was organized into regiments of infantry, artillery, machine guns and cavalry. The most commonly used weapon was the German-made Gewehr 98. The air force did not play a decisive role, as its participation at the time was limited to reconnaissance.\n\nThe army was under the direct orders of the President and had the defense of the State as its primary objective. The different security forces included the National Police, the National Guard and the Hacienda Police.\n\nGiven the circumstances of poverty and inequality, some peasants who were stripped of their land and subjected to poorly paid work began to rebel against the landlords and the authorities. This began on an individual basis, which made it easier for the authorities to detain or threaten the rebels. The big landlords had close ties to military authorities, so defense of the haciendas was performed by official security forces.\n\nAfter several arrests, the peasants began to organize in a low profile manner, lacking any hierarchical system. Therefore, efforts remained isolated and disperse and were easily suppressed. Security forces arrested rebels, many of whom were later sentenced to death by firing squad or hanging. There is no data on the number of executions carried out in the weeks prior to the massacre. However, it is known that many peasant leaders were convicted, as were many public officials who collaborated with them in any way.\n\nAt the same time as the conflicts between indigenous people, peasants, landowners and authorities, the Communist Party of El Salvador (PCS) began distributing pamphlets and registering new members. Activities were fuelled by frustration over broken promises by the government and political parties. The communist leaders, led by Farabundo Martí, had built a political organization that managed to obtain the sympathy of the population. After the coup d'état of 1931, the press gained more freedom to express dissenting views, and the PCS increased the spread of their revolutionary message.\n\nAlthough they lacked a definite party platform, the PCS registered candidates for the January 1932 elections. Electoral processes in that era were subject to serious criticism. Votes had to be made publicly with the authorities. This practice broadly favored official candidates by sowing fear among voters and hindering democratic participation.\n\nAfter the elections, accusations of fraud led the communist leadership to abandon faith in the electoral process and take the path of uprising.\n\nThe uprising was planned for mid-January 1932, and included the support of communist-sympathizers in the military. Before the revolt could take place, police arrested Martí and other communist leaders. Authorities seized documents proving the planned insurrection, which were used as evidence in military trials.\n\nDespite the moral and organizational blow suffered by the PCS, the insurrection was not canceled. By the end of January 1932, the national situation had become chaotic. Security forces detained any groups or individuals involved in subversive or revolutionary acts. Meanwhile, the indigenous population in the West began to revolt in protest of poor living conditions. There is no evidence to support the position that the peasant uprising was carried out by the PCS, but due to the dates on which both uprisings occurred, the armed forces responded equally to both movements.\n\nIn the late hours of January 22, 1932, thousands of peasants in the western part of the country rose up in rebellion against the regime. Rebels led by the Communist Party and Agustín Farabundo Martí, Mario Zapata and Alfonso Luna, attacked government forces with support that was largely from the indigenous Pipils. Armed primarily with machetes, peasants attacked haciendas and military barracks, gaining control over several towns, including Juayúa, Nahuizalco, Izalco, and Tlacopan. Barracks in towns such as Ahuachapán, Santa Tecla, and Sonsonate resisted the attack and remained under government control. It is estimated that peasant rebels killed no more than 100 people. Confirmed deaths include about twenty civilians and thirty soldiers.\n\nThe first city to be taken was Juayúa, where landowner Emilio Radaelli was assassinated. His wife was raped and later murdered. Several other military leaders and government officials were also executed.\n\nDiffering accounts of the event exist, and it is difficult to ensure which is correct since there were very few survivors of the rebellion. It is said that indigenous peoples attacked privated property and committed vandalism and other crimes against entire towns. There is evidence to support this claim, though it is possible that these were merely opportunists joining the uprising to carry out criminal acts. The participation of the indigenous peoples and peasants in the looting cannot be conclusively confirmed or denied. The primary motive of the events, however, can be guaranteed.\n\nThe relationship between the peasants and the Communist Party is also controversial. The coincidental timing of both uprisings and the similar causes lead to the conclusion that they were linked, or even coordinated. Some theories contend that the PCS used the economic turmoil to convince the peasants to act together and rise against the regime. Little to nothing is known about the relation between the two groups. Authors such as Erik Ching affirm that the PCS could not possibly have directed the insurrection, as the party held little influence over the peasant population and was hampered by in-fighting.\n\nRegardless, the government made no distinction between either movement.\n\nThe government reacted swiftly, recovering lost territory by means of a military deployment aimed at suppressing the rebellion. With their superior training and technology, the government troops needed only a few days to defeat the rebels.\n\nGeneral José Tomás Calderón enjoyed an abundance of troops and weapons:\n\nThe civil guards were volunteers who took up service for the security forces to assist in patrolling, and when necessary, fought alongside the military.\n\nOn January 23, the Canadian warships \"Skeena\" and \"Vancouver\" docked at the Port of Acajutla. The ships were requested by Britain, in order to protect any British citizens in the country. U.S. ships arrived shortly after. The ships' crews were also prepared to assist the Salvadoran government in quelling the rebellion. However, the chief of operations in El Salvador turned down the offer, stating:\n\nAlthough the exact number of deaths in the first 72 hours after the uprising is unknown, several historians agree that it was around 25,000 people. Those who were captured alive were sent to trial and inevitably sentenced to death.\n\nAfter the rebellion, peasant leader Francisco Sánchez was hanged. His counterpart, Feliciano Ama, was lynched and his body was later hung in the town square while schoolchildren were forced to attend.\n\nIn the areas around Izalco, anyone found carrying a machete, and anyone with indigenous features or clothing, was accused of subversion and found guilty. In order to ease the work of the security forces, all those who had not participated in the insurrection were invited to present themselves in order to obtain documents which declared their innocence. Upon arrival they were examined, and those with indigenous features were arrested. They were shot in groups of 50 in front of the wall of the town church, Iglesia de La Asunción. Several were forced to dig mass graves, which they were thrown into after being shot. The houses of those found guilty were burned and the surviving inhabitants were shot.\n\nAccording to the commander of the operacion, 4,800 members of the PCS were killed, although this figure is difficult to verify.\n\nAfter the conflict, survivors attempted to flee to Guatemala; in response, president Jorge Ubico ordered the border to be closed, handing over anyone who attempted to cross to the Salvadoran army.\n\nAs resolution of the conflict, the Legislative Assembly of El Salvador issued Legislative Decree No. 121 on July 11, 1932, which granted unconditional amnesty to anyone who committed crimes of any nature in order to \"restore order, repress, persecute, punish and capture those accused of the crime of rebellion of this year.\"\n\nHaving put down the rebellion, the government of Hernández Martínez began a process of repression of the opposition, and utilized the voter registry to intimidate or execute those who had declared themselves opponents of the government.\n\nAs the killings particularly targeted people of indigenous appearance, dress, or language, in the decades that followed, Salvadoran indigenous peoples increasingly abandoned their native dress and traditional languages from fear of further reprisals. The events brought about the extermination of the majority of the Pipil-speaking population, which led to a near total loss of the spoken language in El Salvador. The indigenous population abandoned many of their traditions and customs out of fear of being arrested. Many of the indigenous people who did not participate in the uprising stated that they did not understand the motivation of the government's persecution.\n\nOver the years, the indigenous population has fallen to the point of near extinction in the 21st century. In the decade following the uprising, military presence in the area was persistent with the objective of keeping the peasants under control so that the events did not recur. After the dictatorship of Hernández Martínez, the method of preventing peasant discontent changed from repression to social reforms which benefitted them (at least momentarily).\n\nIn 2010, president Mauricio Funes apologized to the indigenous communities of El Salvador for the brutal acts of persecution and extermination carried out by previous governments. The statement was made during the inauguration of the First Congress of Indigenous Peoples. \"In this context and this spirit, my government wishes to be the first government to, on behalf of the State of El Salvador, of the people of El Salvador, and of the families of El Salvador, make an act of contrition and apologize to the indigenous communities for the persecution and extermination of which they were victims during so many years,\" said the president.\n\nIn the town of Izalco, the uprising is commemorated on every January 22. Media coverage is moderate, but the commemoration is supported by municipal authorities who pay tribute to all who were killed during the event. Speakers include people who lived through the event, and relatives of Feliciano Ama.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "400976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400976", "title": "2000 millennium attack plots", "text": "2000 millennium attack plots\n\nOn or near January 1, 2000, a series of Islamist terrorist attacks linked to al-Qaeda were planned to occur in the context of millennium celebrations, including bombing plots against four tourist sites in Jordan, against the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and the , and the hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight 814. In Lebanon, dozens were killed in clashes in the Dinnieh district between radical Islamists with connections to the Jordan plots and the Lebanese Army. The plots in Jordan and against LAX were foiled by law enforcement agencies, while the attempted bombing of \"The Sullivans\" only failed because the boat filled with explosives sank before detonating. The revelation of the plot linked to the LAX \"Millennium Bomber\" Ahmed Ressam led to unprecedented investigations into possible other terrorist cells in the United States, dubbed Operation \"Borderbom\", and security measures around millennium celebrations. Other al-Qaeda-linked millennium attack plots may have been planned or foiled around the same time.\n\nIn Jordan, members of the Islamist terror organization al-Qaeda planned to bomb four sites: a fully booked Radisson hotel in Amman, Jordan; the border between Jordan and Israel; Mount Nebo, a Christian holy site; and a site on the Jordan River where John the Baptist is said to have baptized Jesus. These locations were chosen to target tourists from the United States and Israel. The most active participant was a Boston taxi driver named Raed Hijazi.\n\nOn November 30, 1999, Jordanian intelligence intercepted a call between Abu Zubaydah, the leader of the plot, and Khadr Abu Hoshar, a Palestinian militant terrorist. In the conversation, Zubaydah stated, \"The time for training is over.\" Sensing that the attack was imminent, Jordanian police arrested Hoshar and fifteen others on December 12, 1999.\n\nThe authorities put twenty-eight suspects on trial. Twenty-two of them were quickly found guilty. Six of them, thought to be linked to Osama bin Laden, including Hijazi, were sentenced to death. Abu Zubaydah was sentenced to death \"in absentia\". Luai Sakra and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi were sentenced \"in absentia\" in 2002 for their part in the plot, which included using poison gas during the bombing.\n\nAhmed Ressam, an Algerian citizen living in Montreal, Canada confessed after interrogation to having planned to bomb the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) on New Year's Eve. He was arrested by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer Diana Dean at Port Angeles, Washington, a U.S. port of entry, on December 14, 1999. Customs officials found a cache of explosives that could have produced \"a blast forty times greater than that of a devastating car bomb\" and four timing devices hidden in the spare tire well in the trunk of the rented car in which he had traveled from Canada. Ressam later asserted that the plot was facilitated by Zubaydah and known to bin Laden.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) conducted door-to-door interviews of up to 50 individuals across the country, made \"dozens of arrests\" as part of investigations into possible other individuals linked to the case, and reportedly \"questioned hundreds of Muslims from Los Angeles to Boston, wiretapped hundreds of conversations, and put hundreds of individuals under surveillance\". Abdelghani Meskini, a known criminal was arrested in Brooklyn, New York on December 30 by Joint Terrorism Task Force for his links to Ressam. In New York and Boston, nine other Algerians linked to Meskini were arrested by the FBI, as part of the largest counter-terrorism operation ever conducted in the United States, dubbed Operation \"Borderbom\". Most, including Meskini faced minor charges after no significant terrorism links could be proven, although a main suspected bomb-making accomplice, Abdelmajid Dahoumane had fled the country. Other suspected targets alleged by Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) sources included the Seattle Space Needle and Disneyland, California, with maps found with circles around \"three California airports—Los Angeles International, Long Beach and Ontario—as well as maps with San Francisco's landmark Transamerica building and Seattle's Space Needle.\"\n\nRessam began cooperating with investigators in 2001. He was initially sentenced to 22 years in prison, but in 2010 an appellate court reversed and remanded the case based on procedural errors and recommended that his sentence be extended. He was re-sentenced to 37 years' imprisonment in 2012. Another Algerian-Canadian, Mokhtar Haouari was sentenced to 24 years imprisonment for assisting Ressam in the plot. Abu Doha was indicted for the plot, but was denied extradition from the United Kingdom.\n\nIndian Airlines Flight 814, en route from Nepal to India was hijacked on December 24, 1999 by five militants of the al-Qaeda-linked Harkat-ul-Mujahideen group. The hijackers reportedly told the captain, \"Fly slowly, fly carefully, there is no hurry. We have to give India a millennium gift,\" as a bomb in the cargo room of the plane was timed to go off at midnight, December 31, 1999. The plane eventually landed in Taliban-controlled Kandahar, Afghanistan. On December 31, India agreed to release three captive militants in exchange for the nearly 200 passengers and crew that were being held hostage.\n\nOn December 31, 1999, attacks were launched by a group of up to 300 radical Islamists against Lebanese Army forces in the Dinnieh district in northern Lebanon. The group behind the attack, calling itself after the apocalyptic Takfir wal-Hijra group was led by Bassam Kanj, a close associate of Raed Hijazi who had been indicted for his involvement in the Jordan bombing plots. Kanj had met Hijazi in the Khalden training camp in Afghanistan, and they later worked for the same Boston taxi company in the United States in the 1990s. The fighting lasted for eight days, and killed eleven soldiers, five civilians, and 28 Islamists.\n\nLebanon being under Syrian occupation at the time, the Lebanon clashes followed clashes in Syria between Syrian security forces and Islamists, some of whom were accused of infiltrating the country from Jordan and Saudi Arabia, that began on 30 December when several Syrian intelligence agents were ambushed and killed. The clashes lasted for four days in Damascus, Homs and nearby villages, and the Hizb ut-Tahrir group claimed that 1,200 of its members had been arrested by January 2000.\n\nIn Yemen, members of al-Qaeda attempted to bomb the warship while it was refueling in Aden with a boat laden with explosives. Terrorists deployed a bomb-laden boat on January 3, 2000, but the over-loaded bomb boat sank before detonating. Richard A. Clarke (former US National Coordinator for Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Counter-terrorism), in his book \"Against All Enemies\", says that at the time, no law enforcement agency in the world knew about this plot.\n\nJamal Ahmad Mohammad Al Badawi and Fahd al-Quso were charged \"in absentia\" in 2003 for their alleged roles in several terrorist acts, including the attempted bombing of \"The Sullivans\". In 2011, Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, held in Guantanamo, was charged with planning the attack on \"The Sullivans\" along with other attacks, facing death penalty.\n\nAccording to National Security Advisor of the Clinton administration, Sandy Berger, terrorist cells had been disrupted in \"eight countries\" in the weeks before New Year's Eve, which was said to have \"almost certainly\" prevented additional attacks. The man behind the LAX plot, Ahmed Ressam, claimed there had been plans by other terrorist cells of millennium attacks \"in Europe, in the Gulf, against U.S. and Israel.\" Major security operations were launched to improve security for the millennium celebrations in Times Square, New York, along with several other cities in the United States and Europe.\n\nIn anticipation of the turn to the new millennium, official concerns by the FBI and U.S. authorities had focused on purported threats by \"apocalyptic\" religious or political groups, claimed to include lone wolf white supremacists, Christian apocalyptic cults or radical elements of militia organizations.\n\nWhile in prison, Ressam revealed that al-Qaeda sleeper cells existed within the United States. This information was included in the President's Daily Brief delivered to President George W. Bush on August 6, 2001, entitled \"Bin Laden Determined To Strike in US\".\n\nFBI special agent and counter-terrorism chief John P. O'Neill, who had been central in the investigation of al-Qaeda in the late 1990s and the millennium plot, and subsequently suspected the existence of sleeper cells in the United States, died in the September 11 attacks in 2001 as head of security of the World Trade Center. O'Neill had started his new job on August 23 less than a month before the attack, after he had been squeezed out of the bureau.\n\nOn July 19, 2004, it was revealed that the U.S. Justice Department was investigating former National Security Advisor of the Clinton administration, Sandy Berger, for unauthorized removal of classified documents in October 2003 from a National Archives reading room prior to testifying before the 9/11 Commission. The documents were five classified copies of a single report commissioned from Richard A. Clarke, covering internal assessments of the Clinton administration's handling of the plots. An associate of Berger said Berger took one copy in September 2003 and four copies in October 2003.\n\nAfter the unsuccessful attack on the USS \"The Sullivans\", al-Qaeda attempted the same type of attack for a second time, again in Aden, Yemen. They successfully bombed the on October 12, 2000, in an attack that claimed the lives of seventeen U.S. sailors.\n\nThe Radisson SAS hotel in Amman, Jordan, which was the target of a millennium attack plot, was one of three hotels in the city that were bombed by al-Qaeda in 2005. Thirty-eight people were killed in the bombing, which was the deadliest of the three hotels attacked.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13932099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13932099", "title": "Capital punishment in Georgia (country)", "text": "Capital punishment in Georgia (country)\n\nCapital punishment in Georgia was completely abolished on the May 1, 2000 when Protocol No. 6 to the ECHR was signed. Later Georgia also adopted the Second Optional Protocol to the ICCPR. The death penalty was replaced with life imprisonment.\n\nThe last death sentence carried out in Georgia took place in 1997. It was carried out for murder; the prisoner was executed by a single shot to the back of the head.\n\n"}
{"id": "44689286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44689286", "title": "Civil Service Yearbook", "text": "Civil Service Yearbook\n\nThe Civil Service Yearbook is an annual reference guide to the British civil service and non-departmental public bodies.\n\nThe book is now published by Dandy Booksellers and the fiftieth edition, for 2013-14, was published in March 2014.\n"}
{"id": "10690377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10690377", "title": "Community health council", "text": "Community health council\n\nCommunity health councils were established in 1974 to provide a voice for patients and the public in the National Health Service (NHS) in England and Wales.\n\nCommunity health councils were obliged to meet in public under the provisions of the Community Health Councils (Access to Information) Act 1988. They were entitled to be consulted about the provision of local pharmacies. Half the members were appointed by local authorities, a third by local voluntary organisations and a sixth by the Regional health authority, which provided the finance to pay staff and costs. They were entitled to be consulted on any substantial development of the health service and on any proposals to make any substantial variation in the service. The question of what constituted a substantial variation was subject to repeated litigation.\n\nThey were abolished in 2003 in England as part of the NHS Plan 2000. Unlike the other proposals in the Plan there was no preceding discussion about this move, nor any clear explanation for this decision, which aroused considerable unhappiness amongst the staff and members. In England a new structure, Public and Patient Involvement Forums, was established in 2003. These were replaced by local involvement networks (LINks) and these have now also been superseded in NHS England by the establishment - as a result of the English NHS reforms in 2012 - by new organisations called Healthwatch. These do not, however, have the same resources, statutory powers or responsibilities as CHCs.\n\nUp until 2010 there were 19 CHCs in Wales. However, as a result of the passing by the Welsh Assembly Government of the Community Health Councils (Constitution, Membership and Procedures) (Wales) Regulations 2010, these were replaced by eight CHCs. These covered larger geographical areas, and were largely co-terminus with the smaller number of health boards which had been established to replace most NHS Trusts in Wales. The community health councils in Wales work to enhance and improve the quality of your local health service. They are the patients statutory and independent voice in health services provided throughout Wales.\n\nMembers are drawn equally from three sources; local authority representatives, nominees from local third-sector bodies and members appointed by the Minister in response to advert. CHCs also have the right to co-opt non-voting members to the council.\n\nThe key function of the CHC is to represent the interests of the public in the health service in their district. Each CHC currently monitors and evaluates from the patient's viewpoint the effectiveness of NHS services provided by all NHS establishments, including hospitals, GPs, pharmacies, opticians, care homes, dentists, etc. Every autumn, the Hospital Patient Environment (HPE) visits take place, this is where all the CHCs collect data on their local district general and a selection of community hospitals and report on their finding. A report is produced on these findings by the Board of Community Health Councils and sent to the Welsh Assembly Government. The Board of Community Health Councils in Wales is the National body for all CHCs in Wales. The CHCs also provide a free, independent and confidential advocacy service to patients who seek advice and support in the process of pursuing a complaint against the NHS.\n\nAt the time of the launch of the new CHCs in 2010, the then Health Minister for Wales, Edwina Hart, indicated that they would be reviewed after two years, to evaluate how they were working. In February 2012 the then Minister for Health and Social Services at the Welsh Government, Mrs Lesley Griffiths, formally announced the Terms of Reference for this review, which was led by Professor Marcus Longley, Director of the Welsh Institute for Health and Social Care and reported back to the Minister in June 2012. This was followed in late 2012/early 2013 by a consultation on proposals for modernising and strengthening the role, organisation, accountability and visibility of CHCs in Wales. The proposals were accepted by the new Health Minister, Professor Mark Drakeford, in a report back to a Plenary Session of the National Assembly for Wales Senedd in March 2013, where the Minister confirmed his continuing support for CHCs in Wales. Although legislation will be required to implement some of the proposals, most are likely to be put in place without the need for legislation, with the Board of CHCs in wales taking the lead role in co-ordinating the work.\n\n"}
{"id": "9675036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9675036", "title": "Corruption in Nigeria", "text": "Corruption in Nigeria\n\nPolitical corruption is a persistent phenomenon in Nigeria. The rise of public administration and the discovery of oil and natural gas are two major events believed to have led to the sustained increase in the incidence of corrupt practices in the country.\n\nEfforts have been made by government to minimize corruption through the enactment of laws and the enforcement of integrity systems but with little success. In 2012, Nigeria was estimated to have lost over $400 billion to corruption since independence.\n\nGreed, ostentatious lifestyle, customs, and people's attitudes are believed to have led to corruption. Another root cause is tribalism. Friends and kinsmen seeking favor from officials can impose strains on the ethical disposition of the official as these kinsmen see government officials as holding avenues for their personal survival and gain.\n\nCorruption, though prevalent, was kept at manageable levels during the First Republic. However, the cases of corruption during the period were sometimes clouded by political infighting. \n\nCorruption for the most part of Yakubu Gowon's administration was kept away from public view until 1975. However, informed officials voiced concerns. Critics said Gowon's governors acted like lords overseeing their personal fiefdom. He was viewed as timid, faced with corrupt elements in his government.\n\nIn 1975, a corruption scandal surrounding the importation of cement engulfed many officials of the defense ministry and the central bank of Nigeria. Officials were later accused of falsifying ships manifestos and inflating the amount of cement to be purchased.\n\nDuring the Gowon administration, two individuals from the middle belt of the country were accused of corruption. The Nigerian government controlled the newspapers, so the Daily Times and the New Nigerian gave great publicity to denunciations of the administration of Gomwalk, and Federal Commissioner Joseph Tarka by the two critics. A situation which may signal a cause for exigent action on corruption.\n\nIn 1975, the administration of Murtala Mohammed made reformist changes. After a military coup brought it to power, the new government sacked a large number of prior government officials and civil servants, many of whom had been criticized for the misuse of power they wielded under the largely uneducated military of Gowon.\n\nThe first administration of Olusegun Obasanjo was a continuation of the Muritala Mohammed administration, and was focused on completing the transition program to democracy, as well as implementing the national development plans. Major projects including building new refineries, pipelines, expanding the national shipping and airlines as well as hosting FESTAC was done during the administration. A number of these national projects were conduits to distribute favors and enrich connected politicians. The famous Afrobeat musician, Fela Kuti, sang variously about major scandals involving the international telecommunication firm ITT led by Chief MKO Abiola in Nigeria, which the then Head of State, Gen Olusegun Obasanjo was associated with. In addition to this, the Operation Feed the Nation Program, and the associated land grab under the Land Use Decree implemented by the then Head of State was used as conduits to reward cronies, and his now famous Otta Farm Nigeria (OFN) was supposedly a project borne out of this scandal.\n\nCorruption was deemed pervasive during the administration of Shehu Shagari.\nA few federal buildings mysteriously caught fire after investigators started to probe the finances of the officials working in the buildings. \nIn late 1985, investigations into the collapse of the defunct Johnson Mathey Bank of London shed light on some of the abuses carried on during the second republic. The bank acted as a conduit to transfer hard currency for some party members in Nigeria. A few leading officials and politicians had amassed large amounts of money. They sought to transfer the money out of the country with the help of Asian importers by issuing import licenses.\n\nIn 1981, a rice shortage led to accusations of corruption against the NPN government. Shortages and subsequent allegations were precipitated by protectionism. After its election the Nigerian government decided to protect local rice farmers from imported commodities. A licensing system was created to limit rice imports. However, accusations of favoritism and government-supported speculation were leveled against many officials.\n\nIn 1985, a cross section of politicians were convicted of corrupt practices under the government of General Muhammadu Buhari, but the administration itself was only involved in a few instances of lapsed ethical judgment. Some cite the suitcases scandal which also coincidentally involved then customs leader Atiku Abubakar, who later became Vice President in 1999, and was indicted for various acts of corruption. \"The 53 suitcases saga arose in 1984 during the currency change exercise ordered by the Buhari junta when it ordered that every case arriving the country should be inspected irrespective of the status of the person behind such. The 53 suitcases were, however, ferried through the Murtala Muhammed Airport without a customs check by soldiers allegedly at the behest of Major Mustapha Jokolo, the then aide-de-camp to Gen. Buhari. Atiku was at that time the Area Comptroller of Customs in charge of the Murtala Muhammed Airport.\"\n\nThe regime of general Ibrahim Babangida or IBB, has been seen as the body that legalized corruption. His administration refused to give account of the Gulf War windfall, which has been estimated to be $12.4 billion. He rigged the only successful election in the history of Nigeria in June 12, 1993. He lives in a very exquisite mansion in his home state of Niger.\n\nDuring IBB's tenure, corruption became a policy of state. Vehicles and cash gifts were routinely disbursed to earn loyalty, and the discipline of the military force eroded. The term \"IBB Boys\" emerged, meaning fronts for the head of state in business realm, someone who will transact dirty deals from drug dealing to money laundering. The President was reportedly deeply involved in drug dealing through the first lady, Maryam Babangida, and Gloria Okon (his girlfriend). The near-revelation of that fact by Dele Giwa triggered the assassination of the journalist by the Presidential death squad using a letter bomb.\n\nIBB used various government privatization initiatives to reward friends and cronies, which eventually gave rise to the current class of nouveau riche in Nigeria. From banking to oil and import licenses, IBB used these favors to raise cash for himself and his family, and is regarded as one of the richest ex-rulers of Nigeria supposedly with significant investment in Globacom—one of the largest telecom operators in Nigeria, regarded as a front for his empire.\n\nThe death of the general Sani Abacha revealed the global nature of graft. French investigations of bribes paid to government officials to ease the award of a gas plant construction in Nigeria revealed the level of official graft in the country. The investigations led to the freezing of accounts containing about $100 million United States dollars.\nIn 2000, two years after his death, a Swiss banking commission report indicted Swiss banks for failing to follow compliance process when they allowed Abacha's family and friends of access to his accounts and to deposit amounts totaling $600 million US dollars into them. The same year, a total of more than $1 billion US dollars were found in various accounts throughout Europe.\n\nThe government of Gen. Abdusalami was short and focused on transiting the country quickly to democracy. Albeit, suspicion remains that quite a huge of wealth was acquired by him and his inner circle in such short period, as he lives in quite exquisite mansion of his own adjacent IBB's that exceeds whatever he might have earned in legitimate income. Indeed, the major Halliburton scandal implicated his administration, and this might have financed his opulence.\n\nVarious corruption scandals broke out under Olusegun Obasanjo's presidency, including one of international dimensions when his vice president was caught in cahoots with a US Congressman stashing cold hard cash (literally) in freezers. In addition to this, the KBR and Siemens bribery scandals broke out under his administration, which was serially investigated by the FBI and led to international indictments indicating high-level corruption in his administration. According to reports, \"while Nigeria dithered, the United States Department of Justice on January 18, 2012 announced that a Japanese construction firm, Marubeni Corporation, agreed to pay a $54.6 million criminal penalty for allegedly bribing officials of the Nigerian government to facilitate the award of the $6 billion liquefied natural gas contract in Bonny, Nigeria to a multinational consortium, TSKJ\". They paid bribes to Nigerian government officials between 1995 and 2004, in violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.\n\nSome other acts of corruption tied to Olusegun Obasanjo included the Transcorp shares scandal that violated the code of conduct standards for public officers, and the presidential library donations at the eve of his exit from power that pressured associates to donate. Obasanjo was also said to widely lobby for his failed campaign to alter the constitution to get a third term by actively bribing the legislators. further deepening corruption at the highest levels.\n\nYaradua's ascent and time in office was short, although a fair number of corruption scandals from previous administrations came to light under his tenure and went uninvestigated due to lack of political will and poor health. Yaradua's various acts of political corruption using his Attorney-General to frustrate ongoing local and international investigations of his powerful friends like Governor Ibori, Igbinnedion and Odili which led to massive losses to their states. Indeed, AG Aondakaa was legendary in his inability to obtain conviction in Nigeria even as UK and foreign courts successfully tried Nigeria's deeply corrupt governors from the Obasanjo era that helped Yaradua emerge as president. In addition, Wikileaks revealed that the Supreme Court Justices were bribed to legitimize the corrupt elections that saw to his emergence as president through massive rigging. Wikileaks documents also revealed the staying power of corruption under Yaradua, with illegal payments from NNPC to Presidents continuing unabated.\n\nIn 2014, Nigeria's rank improved from 143rd to the 136th position on Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index. In late 2013, Nigeria's then Central Bank governor Sanusi Lamido Sanusi informed President Goodluck Jonathan that the state oil company, NNPC, had failed to remit US$20 billion in oil revenues owed to the state. Jonathan however dismissed the claim and replaced Sanusi for his mismanagement of the central bank's budget. A Senate committee also found Sanusi’s account to be lacking in substance. After the conclusion of the NNPC's account audit, it was announced in January 2015 that NNPC's non-remitted revenue is actually US$1.48 billion, which it needs to refund to the government. Upon release of both the PwC and Deloitte report by the government at the eve of its exit, it was however determined that truly close to $20 billion was indeed missing or misappropriated or spent without appropriation.\n\nIn addition to these, the government of Goodluck Jonathan had several running scandals including the BMW purchase by his Aviation Minister, $250 million plus security contracts to militants in the Niger Delta, massive corruption and kickbacks in the Ministry of Petroleum, the Malibu Oil International scandal, and several scandals involving the Petroleum Ministry including accusations of sweetheart deals with select fronts and business people to divert public wealth. In the dying days of Goodluck Jonathan's administration, the Central Bank scandal of cash tripping of mutilated notes also broke out, where it was revealed that in a four-day period, 8 billion naira was stolen directly by low-level workers in the CBN. This revelation excluded a crime that is suspected to have gone on for years and went undetected until revealed by whistle-blower. The Central Bank claim the heist undermined its monetary policy. In 2014, UNODC began an initiative to help combat corruption in Nigeria.\n\nNew allegations of corruption have begun to emerge since the departure of President Jonathan on May 29, 2015, including:\n\n7. Diversion of $2.2 million vaccination medicine fund, by Ministry of Health \n\n8. Diversion of Ebola fight fund up to 1.9 bn naira \n\n9. NIMASA fraud under investigation by EFCC, inclusive of accusation of funding PDP and buying a small piece of land for 13 billion naira \n\n10. Ministry of Finance led by Okonjo Iweala hurried payment of $2.2 million to health ministry contractor in disputed invoices \n\n11. NDDC scams and multifarious scams including 2.7 billion naira worth of contracts that does not confirm to the Public Procurement Act\n\n12. Police Service Commission Scam investigated by ICPC that revealed misappropriation of over 150 million naira related to election related trainings. ICPC made refund recommendations, but many analyst indicated prosecution was more appropriate.\n\nIn 2016, the Senate ad-hoc committee on “mounting humanitarian crisis in the North East” led by Senator Shehu Sani indicted the then Secretary to the Government of the Federation appointed by Muhammadu Buhari, Mr. Babachir Lawal in a N200 million contract scandal for the clearing of “invasive plant species” in Yobe State by Rholavision Nigeria Limited; a company he owns.\n\nOn October 30, 2017, President Buhari sacked Lawal based on the report of a three-man panel led by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo that investigated him and one other.\n\nAbdulrasheed Maina was the head of the task force on pension reforms during the President Goodluck Jonathan led administration but fled Nigeria in 2015 after claims that he embezzled two billion naira ($5.6 million, 4.8 million euros). Despite the fact that an Interpol arrest warrant was issued, he still managed to return to Nigeria, where he was said to have enjoyed protection from the security.\n\nAccording to the senate through its committee on public accounts, 85 government parastatals under the present government under the leadership of Muhammadu Buhari are yet to submit their report since the inception of this government.\n\nThe flag bearer of the corruption fight in Nigeria, the EFCC has responded to the senate committee on public account's claim on the non submission of her account report by the institution and 84 others. The Economic and financial crimes commission denied the report issued by the committee claiming it was not true.\n\nThe following list contains the institutions perceived as the most corrupt. It is culled from the Nigeria Survey and Corruption Survey Study, Final Report (June 2003) Institute for Development Research, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria (IDR, ABU Zaria)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31361254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31361254", "title": "Cricket diplomacy", "text": "Cricket diplomacy\n\nCricket diplomacy consists of using the game of cricket as a political tool to enhance or worsen the diplomatic relations between two cricket playing nations. Cricket is the second-most widely played game in the world after football, and is thus used as a political tool to bridge the gap in the diplomatic vacuum.\n\nThe Bodyline controversy was detrimental to relations between England and Australia. The situation escalated into a diplomatic incident between the countries as the MCC—supported by the British public and still of the opinion that their \"fast leg theory\" tactic was harmless—took serious offence at being branded \"unsportsmanlike\" and demanded a retraction. Many people saw bodyline as fracturing an international relationship that needed to remain strong. Jardine, and by extension the entire English team, threatened to withdraw from the fourth and fifth Tests unless the Australian Board withdrew the accusation of unsporting behaviour. Public reaction in both England and Australia was outrage directed at the other nation. The Governor of South Australia, Alexander Hore-Ruthven, who was in England at the time, expressed his concern to British Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs James Henry Thomas that this would cause a significant impact on trade between the nations. The standoff was settled only when Australian prime minister Joseph Lyons met with members of the Australian Board and outlined to them the severe economic hardships that could be caused in Australia if the British public boycotted Australian trade. Given this understanding, the Board withdrew the allegation of unsportsmanlike behaviour two days before the fourth Test, thus saving the tour.\n\nThere were significant consequences for Anglo-Australian relations, which remained strained until the outbreak of World War II made cooperation paramount. Business between the two countries was adversely affected as citizens of each country displayed a preference for not buying goods manufactured in the other. Australian commerce also suffered in British colonies in Asia: the \"North China Daily News\" published a pro-bodyline editorial, denouncing Australians as sore losers. An Australian journalist reported that several business deals in Hong Kong and Shanghai were lost by Australians because of local reactions.\n\nEnglish immigrants in Australia found themselves shunned and persecuted by locals, and Australian visitors to England were treated similarly. In 1934–35 a statue of Prince Albert in Sydney was vandalised, with an ear being knocked off and the word \"BODYLINE\" painted on it.\n\nCricket has also had a hand to play in sporting diplomacy. Following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and Soviet pressure on India to deflect the tension they faced, in 1987 Pakistan's president at the time, General Zia ul-Haq, attended a test match between India and Pakistan in Jaipur - a visit that apparently helped cool a flare-up in tensions. Furthermore, in 2004 after a break of fifteen years, India toured Pakistan in the wake of diplomatic initiatives to bury half a century of mutual hostility. Both sides relaxed their tough visa regulations for each other, allowing thousands of fans to travel across the border.\n\nIn an attempt to replicate the cricket diplomacy of the past General Pervez Musharraf came to India in 2005 ostensibly for a cricket match. The trip, however, quickly took on the air of a summit as the sides were urged \"to seize a historic chance to end their dispute over Kashmir.\" Often this rivalry has been tinged with a religious-political bent to it. In 1991, the workers of the Indian political party Shiv Sena dug up the cricket pitch at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on the eve of an India-Pakistan Test match which was to be held there, forcing the entire series between the two nations to be cancelled. The Shiv Sena once again used this unique means of protest at the Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi in 2000 to protest against the Pakistan cricket team's proposed visit. Following the Kargil conflict, and at various other times, there have also been calls to suspend cricketing ties between the two countries.\n\nDuring the 2011 Cricket World Cup, is believed to have eased the relationship between India and Pakistan after the polarising 2008 Mumbai attacks. Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh used this opportunity and greeted his Pakistani counterpart Yousuf Raza Gilani to watch the match with him at Mohali. Gilani subsequently accepted the offer and agreed to watch the match with Singh. In 2015, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has requested Indian govt. to allocate a cricket stadium for Afghanistan Cricket team in India. \n\nIn 2008, the England and Wales Cricket Board cancelled Zimbabwe's 2009 tour of England, and the Government of the United Kingdom subsequently suspended all bilateral relations between the two states in response to the situation regarding the 2008 Zimbabwean presidential election. MPs Jack Straw and Tessa Jowell wrote to the International Cricket Council asking them to ban Zimbabwe from international cricket.\n\nExtending a form of cultural diplomacy popularly called stadium diplomacy, China has also joined cricket diplomacy. Cross-Strait relations have been the impetus for doing so. During the buildup to the 2007 World Cup, Antigua received a $55 million grant to build the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, while Jamaica received $30 million for a new Trelawny stadium. St. Lucia also built both a cricket and a football stadium courtesy of China. China spent a remarkable $132 million on cricket facilities in the West Indies over the past few years, compared to the International Cricket Council's 10-year budget of $70 million to promote cricket globally. The diplomacy paid off in the end as Grenada and Dominica derecognized Taiwan as an independent country. Further, \"Of the remaining 24 countries that recognize Taiwan, four are in the Caribbean and two of these play cricket.\" Grenada previously had a stadium built by Taiwan, but saw it flattened by a hurricane. To join the action, China quickly came in to erect another stadium. Consequently, Taiwan took Grenada to a New York City court to force the latter to return the original loan.\n\nTaiwan also used the World Cup to shore up its position among its shrinking West Indian support base. It doled out $21 million to St. Kitts and Nevis and $12 million to the even smaller St. Vincent and the Grenadines for cricket grounds. China's aggressive ambitions have benefited the Caribbean Islands as \"Strategic analysts say China is laying out more money than is needed to just isolate Taiwan. China, which has built large embassies in each of the islands, now has a bigger diplomatic presence in the Caribbean than the United States, the superpower next door.\" And that \"Mainland China's long-term strategy coincides with its foreign policy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2979642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2979642", "title": "Cryptographic key types", "text": "Cryptographic key types\n\nA cryptographic key is a string of data that is used to lock or unlock cryptographic functions, including authentication, authorization and encryption. Cryptographic keys are grouped into cryptographic key types according to the functions they perform.\n\nConsider a keyring that contains a variety of keys. These keys might be various shapes and sizes, but one thing is certain, each will generally serve a separate purpose. One key might be used to start an automobile, while another might be used to open a safety deposit box. The automobile key will not work to open the safety deposit box and vice versa. This analogy provides some insight on how cryptographic key types work. These keys are categorized in respect to how they are used and what properties they possess. \n\nA cryptographic key is categorized according to how it will be used and what properties it has. For example, a key might have one of the following properties: Symmetric, Public or Private. Keys may also be grouped into pairs that have one private and one public key, which is referred to as an Asymmetric key pair.\n\nAsymmetric keys differ from symmetric keys in that the algorithms use separate keys for encryption and decryption while a symmetric key’s algorithm uses a single key for both processes. Because multiple keys are used with an asymmetric algorithm, the process takes longer to produce than a symmetric key algorithm would. However, the benefits lay in the fact that an asymmetric algorithm is much more secure than a symmetric key algorithm is.\n\nWith a symmetric key, the key needs to be transmitted to the receiver where there is always the possibility that the key could be intercepted or tampered with. With an asymmetric key, the message and/or accompanying data can be sent or received by using a public key; however, the receiver or sender would use his or her personal private key to access the message and/or accompanying data. Thus, asymmetric keys are suited for use for transmitting confidential messages and data and when authentication is required for assurance that the message has not been tampered with. Only the receiver, whom is in possession of the public key’s corresponding private key, has the ability to decode the message. A public key can be sent back and forth between recipients, but a private key remains fixed to one location and is not sent back and forth, which keeps it safe from being intercepted during transmission.\n\nCryptographic keys may also have keys that designate they can be used for long-term (static, archived) use or used for a single session (ephemeral). The latter generally applies to the use of an Ephemeral Key Agreement Key. Most other key types are designed to last for long crypto-periods from about one to two years. When a shorter crypto-period is designed different key types may be used, such as Data Encryption keys, Symmetric Authentication keys, Private Key-Transport keys, Key-Wrapping keys, Authorization keys or RNG keys.\n\nThis page shows the classification of key types from the point of view of key management. In a key management system, each key should be labeled with one such type and that key should never be used for a different purpose.\n\nAccording to NIST SP 800-57 (Revision 4) the following types of keys exist:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51718327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51718327", "title": "Cryptographic splitting", "text": "Cryptographic splitting\n\nCryptographic splitting, also known as cryptographic bit splitting or cryptographic data splitting, is a technique for securing data over a computer network. The technique involves encrypting data, splitting the encrypted data into smaller data units, distributing those smaller units to different storage locations, and then further encrypting the data at its new location. With this process, the data is protected from security breaches, because even if an intruder is able to retrieve and decrypt one data unit, the information would be useless unless it can be combined with decrypted data units from the other locations.\n\nThe technology was filed for patent consideration in June 2003, and the patent was granted in June 2008.\n\nCryptographic splitting utilizes a combination of different algorithms to provide the data protection. A block of data is first encrypted using the AES-256 government encryption standard. The encrypted bits are then split into different shares and then each share is hashed using the National Security Agency's SHA-256 algorithm.\n\nOne application of cryptographic splitting is to provide security for cloud computing. The encrypted data subsets can be stored on different clouds, with the information required to restore the data being held on a private cloud for additional security. Security vendor Security First Corp uses this technology for its Secure Parser Extended (SPx) product line. \n\nIn 2009, technology services company Unisys gave a presentation about using cryptographic splitting with storage area networks. By splitting the data into different parts of the storage area network, this technique provided data redundancy in addition to security.\n\nComputer giant IBM has written about using the technology as part of its Cloud Data Encryption Services (ICDES).\n\nThe technology has also been written about in the context of more effectively using sensitive corporate information, by entrusting different individuals within a company (trustees) with different parts of the information.\n\n"}
{"id": "1424347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424347", "title": "Cândido Rondon", "text": "Cândido Rondon\n\nMarshal Cândido Mariano da Silva Rondon (5 May 1865 – 19 January 1958) was a Brazilian military officer who is most famous for his exploration of Mato Grosso and the Western Amazon Basin, and his lifelong support of Brazilian indigenous populations. He was the first director of Brazil's Indian Protection Bureau (SPI/FUNAI) and supported the creation of the Xingu National Park. The Brazilian state of Rondônia is named after him.\n\nHe was born on 5 May 1865 in Mimoso, a small village in Mato Grosso state. His father, Cândido Mariano da Silva, was of Portuguese ancestry, and his mother was a Native American from the Terena and Bororo. His father died of smallpox before Cândido was born, and his mother died when he was two years old. He was raised by his grandparents until they too died while he was still a boy. After this, he lived with his mother's brother, who adopted Cândido and gave him his family name, Rondon. His uncle raised him until he reached sixteen. \n\nAfter finishing high school at the age of 16, he taught elementary school for two years, and then joined the Brazilian army. He enrolled in the 3rd Regiment of Horse Artillery in 1881. Among other studies, he studied Mathematics and Physical and Natural Sciences of the . On joining the military, he entered officer's school and graduated in 1888 as a second lieutenant. He was also involved with the Republican coup that overthrew Pedro II, the last Emperor of Brazil.\n\nThe republican government was worried about the western region of Brazil, very isolated from the great centers and in border regions. In 1890, he was commissioned as an army engineer with the Telegraphic commission, and helped build the first telegraph line across the state of Mato Grosso. This telegraph line was finally finished in 1895, and afterwards, Rondon started construction on a road that led from Rio de Janeiro (then capital of the republic) to Cuiabá, the capital of Mato Grosso. Until this roadway was complete, the only way between these two cities was by river transport. Also during this time, he married his wife, Chiquinha Xavier. Together, they had 7 children. From 1900 to 1906, Rondon was in charge of laying telegraph line from Brazil to Bolivia and Peru. During this time he opened up new territory, and was in contact with the warlike Bororo of western Brazil. He was so successful in pacifying the Bororo, that he completed the telegraph line with their help. Throughout his life, Rondon laid over 4,000 miles of telegraph line through the jungles of Brazil.\n\nMarshall Rondon was honored with the title \"Patron of the Communications Corps of the Brazilian Army\", by Decree No. 51,960, of 26 April 1963.\n\nAs a result of Rondon's competence in constructing telegraph lines, he was put in charge of extending the telegraph line from Mato Grosso to the Amazon. In the course of constructing the line, he discovered the Juruena river, in northern Mato Grosso which is an important tributary of the Tapajós river along with the discovered the Nambikwara tribe, which had until then killed all Westerners they had come in contact with. He also discovered the ruins of the Real Forte Príncipe da Beira, the greatest historical relic of Rondônia and was promoted as Major of the Corps of Military Engineers, responsible for building the Cuiabá telegraph line to Santo Antonio do Madeira, the first to reach the Amazon region, which was called the \"Rondon Commission\". His works developed from 1907 to 1915. At the same time, the \"Madeira-Mamoré railroad\" was being built, which together with the Rondon telegraphic exploration and integration helped to occupy the region of the present state of Rondônia.\n\nIn May 1909, Rondon set out on his longest expedition. He set out from the settlement of Tapirapuã in northern Mato Grosso heading northwest to meet up with the Madeira river, which is a major tributary of the Amazon River. By August, the party had eaten all of its supplies, and had to subsist on what they could hunt and gather from the forest. By the time they reached the Ji-Paraná River, they had no supplies. During their expedition they discovered a large river between the Juruena, and Ji-Paraná river, which Rondon named the River of Doubt. To reach the Madeira, they built canoes, and reached the Madeira on Christmas Day, 1909.\n\nWhen Rondon reached Rio de Janeiro, he was hailed as a hero, because it was believed that he and the expedition had died in the jungle. After the expedition, he became the first director of the Brazilian Government's Indian Protection Agency, or the SPI.\n\nIn September 1913, Rondon was struck by a poisoned arrow from the Nambikwara Indians. In 1914, with the Rondon Commission, he built 372 km of lines and five more telegraph stations: \"Pimenta Bueno\", \"President Hermes\", \"Presidente Pena\" (later Vila de Rondônia and present Ji-Paraná), \"Jaru\" and \"Ariquemes\", in the area of the present state of Rondônia. On January 1, 1915, he completed his mission with the inauguration of the telegraph station in Santo Antônio do Madeira.\n\nThe 52nd meridian west is also a geographical reference for the history of communications in Brazil. Rondon was the second human being to receive in his honor a meridian in his name. He fulfilled missions by opening roads, clearing lands, launching telegraph lines, mapping the land, and establishing cordial relations with the Indians. He maintained contact with several indigenous peoples.\n\nIn January 1914, Rondon left with Theodore Roosevelt on the Roosevelt-Rondon Scientific Expedition, whose aims were to explore the River of Doubt. The expedition left the Tapiripuã, and reached the River of Doubt on 27 February 1914. They did not reach the mouth of the river until late April, after the expedition had suffered greatly. During the expedition, the river was renamed the Rio Roosevelt.\n\nThe Adventure down the River of Doubt was the most difficult of Roosevelt's life. All the men except Rondon suffered from ailments and constant maladies.\n\nAfter the expedition of 1914, Rondon worked until 1919 mapping the state of Mato Grosso. During this time he discovered some more rivers, and made contact with several indigenous tribes. In 1919, he became chief of the Brazilian Corp of Engineers, and the head of the Telegraphic Commission.\n\nIn 1924 and 1925, he led army forces against a rebellion in the state of São Paulo. From 1927 to 1930, Rondon was put in charge of surveying all of the borders between Brazil and its neighbors. In 1930, he was interrupted by the Revolution of 1930, and he resigned from his position as head of SPI. During 1934–1938, he was in charge of a Diplomatic Mission, to mediate a dispute between Colombia and Peru over the town of Leticia. In 1939, he resumed his directorship of SPI, and expanded the service to new territories of Brazil. In the 1950s he supported the Villas Boas brothers campaign, which faced strong opposition from the government and the ranchers of Mato Grosso and led to the establishment of the first Brazilian National Park for indigenous people along the Xingu River in 1961. \n\nOn 5 May 1955, the date of his 90th birthday, he was awarded the title of Marshal of the Brazilian Army, granted by the National Congress. \nIn 1957, he was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by the Explorers Club of New York.\nHe died in 1958 in Rio de Janeiro at the age of 92.\n\nMarshal Cândido Rondon is considered one of the foremost Brazilian heroes and patriots and has thus been honoured by population and government in many ways. He is the \"Father of Brazilian Telecommunications\" and 5 May is the National Day of Telecommunications, established in his honour.\nHad the glory of having his name written in letters of gold in massive Book of the Geographical Society of New York.\n\n\nIn addition, thousands of streets, schools and other urban features and organizations have received Rondon's name.\n\nFrom 1898 onward Rondon was an orthodox member of the \"Igreja Positivista do Brasil\" (Positivist Church of Brazil), which is a Religion of Humanity based in the thought of Auguste Comte. The creed he embraced from it emphasized naturalism, science, and altruism rather than any supernatural forces.\n\n\"I believe:\nThat man and the world are governed by natural laws.\nThat science has integrated man into the universe, enlarging the unity constituted by the woman, thus creating modest and sublime: sympathy for all beings of whom, as poverello, feels brother.\nThat science, establishing the inattention (born feeling) of love, like that of selfishness, gave man the possession of himself. And the means of transforming and perfecting oneself.\nThat Science, Art, and Industry will transform the Earth into Paradise, for all men, without distinction of races, beliefs, nations: banished the specters of war, of misery, of disease.\nThat along with selfish forces - to be reduced to means of preserving the individual and the species - exist in the heart of man: treasures of love that life in society will sublimate more and more.\nIn the laws of Sociology, founded by Augusto Comte, and why the mission of the intellectuals is, above all, the preparation of the human masses: disadvantaged, so that they rise, so that they can be incorporated into Society.\nThat, being sometimes incompatible with the interests of the Order with those of Progress, everything must be resolved in the light of Love.\nThat material order must be maintained, above all, because of women, the best part of all countries and children, the homelands of the future.\nThat in the current state of anxiety, the solution is to let the thought free as the breath, promote the Religious League,: converging all to Love, the Common Good, set aside the disagreements that will remain in each as intimate forum issues, Without disturbing the splendid unity - which is true happiness.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "967280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967280", "title": "Domestic policy", "text": "Domestic policy\n\nDomestic policy are administrative decisions that are directly related to all issues and activity within a nation's borders. It differs from foreign policy, which refers to the ways a advances its interests in world politics. Domestic policy covers a wide range of areas, including business, education, energy, healthcare, \nlaw enforcement, money and taxes, natural resources, social welfare, and personal rights and freedoms.\n\nMany domestic policy debates concern the appropriate level of government involvement in economic and social affairs. Traditionally, conservatives believe that the government should not play a major role in regulating business and managing the economy. Most conservatives also believe that government action cannot solve the problems of poverty and economic inequality. Most liberals, however, support government programs that seek to provide economic security, ease human suffering, and reduce inequality. Many liberals also believe that the government should regulate businesses to ensure safe and fair working conditions and to limit environmental pollution.\n\nCertain domestic policy issues are especially controversial among people of different cultures, religions, and personal beliefs. Examples of such issues include abortion rights, the rights of homosexuals, the role of religion in public life, and the place of cultural diversity in education and employment.\n\nA nation's form of government largely determines how its domestic policy is formed and implemented. Under authoritarian governments, a ruling group may pursue its domestic policy goals without the input or consent of the people being governed. But in democratic societies, the will of the people has a much greater influence.\n\nIn a democracy, the formal design of domestic policy is chiefly the responsibility of elected leaders, lawmaking bodies, and specialized government agencies. But a number of other factors also play a role in the process. Voters, for instance, determine which individuals and political parties have the power to determine policy. The mass media distribute, and opine, information about domestic issues and influence the beliefs and opinions of the people. Lobbyists, activist groups, and other organizations also work to influence policy through a variety of methods. Such methods may include monetary donations, promises of support, advertising campaigns, or demonstrations and protests. How many people do we personally know that are involved with domestic policy creation? \n\nThe effectiveness of domestic policy depends on the government bureaucracy (system of agencies) that puts laws and programs into action. In some cases, bureaucracies act slowly or inefficiently, or fail to apply policies as they were originally intended. Domestic policy may also face challenges in the courts. In many countries, courts have the power of judicial review, which allows them to strike down any legislative or executive action that they find in violation of the nation's constitution.\n"}
{"id": "44872305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44872305", "title": "Download Valley", "text": "Download Valley\n\nDownload Valley is a cluster of software companies in Israel, producing and delivering adware to be installed alongside downloads of other software. The primary purpose is to monetize shareware and downloads. These software items are commonly browser toolbars, adware, browser hijackers, spyware, and malware. Another group of products are download managers, possibly designed to induce or trick the user to install adware, when downloading a piece of desired software or mobile app from a certain source.\n\nThe term does not refer to an actual geographical region or valley, but is a pun based on Silicon Valley, and the common practice of using downloads to deliver bundled software to users. Many of the companies are located in Tel Aviv and the surrounding region. It has been used by Israeli media, as well as in other reports related to IT business.\n\nDownload managers from Download Valley companies have been used by major download portals and software hosts, including Download.com by CNET, Softonic.com and SourceForge.\n\nThe smaller adware companies SweetPacks and SmileBox were purchased by the larger company Perion Networks for $41 million and $32 million. iBario claimed to be worth $100 million in early 2014. Conduit was valued at $1.4 billion by JP Morgan in 2012.\n\nRevenues are frequently near $100 million to several $100 million for large companies (Perion: $87 million in 2013, Conduit: claimed $500 million in 2012), with much lower operating and net income (Perion: $3.88 million operating, $310.000 net income in 2013).\n\nAll these numbers are highly volatile, since technical and legal preconditions quickly change profit opportunities. In 2013 and 2014, changes in web browsers to prevent unwanted toolbar installs and a new policy by Microsoft towards advertising lead to the expectation that the main profit methods of the companies would soon work no longer. The Perion stock lost roughly two thirds of its value during 2014, from over $13.25 in January to $4.53 on December 29.\n\nMany of the products may be designed in a way to install while not being solicited by the user who downloads the desired product, and to create revenue from software usually distributed as free. For this, they may use invasive and harmful techniques.\n\nTo achieve installs, such installers may:\n\n\nInstalled adware frequently attempts to hide its identity, prevent disabling, removal or restoring of previous settings, spy on the user's system and browsing habits, download and install further, unwanted software or open backdoors for possibly malicious attacks.\n\nMany security software vendors list these products in the category of potentially unwanted programs (PUP, also PUS or PUA) or grayware and offer detection and removal. This category is distinct from genuine malware and used for software from companies who can, as opposed to criminal underground programmers, threaten with or practice litigation.\n\nIn 2013, the Download Valley company iBario was accused, by security software vendor Trend Micro, of distributing the Sefnit/Mevade malware through an installer and being related to a Ukrainian company considered immediately responsible for the malware.\n\nAn unnamed Download Valley executive admitted to the \"Wall Street Journal\" that some companies employ teams of up to 15 developers to break through security suites that try to block their software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55190511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55190511", "title": "Emirate of Abdelkader", "text": "Emirate of Abdelkader\n\nThe Emirate of Abdelkader, Emir Abdelkader Resistance, or Emir Abdelkader State, was founded by Emir Abdelkader with the allegiance of the Algerian people to resist the French invasion.\n\nThe system of government was simple and analogous to the regime of the deys of Algiers. However, it corresponded to a profound revision of the doctrine of power to a more egalitarian basis. The emir was head of the state, and governed with his divan or council of ministers. He was assisted by a majlis, an advisory council of wise personalities, ulamas and khalifas representing the provinces and presided over by a qâdî al qudât. Algeria was divided by the emir into eight khalifalik, themselves subdivided into aghalik which grouped several caïdats. This division took into account local influences and history, especially on the tribal level.\n\nThe emir very early attached importance to the structuring of an economy perceived as necessary, for the perpetuation of his state. He set up a number of factories and industries in Tagdemt, his new capital. Thus, the local production of the necessary goods, especially the war effort, was accorded great importance. The cities of Tlemcen, Mascara, Miliana, Medea and Tagdemt make the necessary powder. Tagdemt and Miliana had foundries and weapon factory. There is also a desire to regulate the souks with greater surveillance and security of the sites and the transportation routes to promote trade. Agriculture was encouraged, with the suppression of the kharadj to encourage the fellahs and the utilization of periods of truce. Finally, the emir set up a currency struck at Tagdempt to ensure the financial autonomy of the state in 1834 to 1841.\n\nThe emir realized that the power of the state is reflected in the military strength of the state; also it gives a great image to the state. The Emir used the military to enforce order and security throughout the Emirate in order to stop the chaos that spread in the country after the fall of Turkish rule in Algeria.\nWhen the Emir established the Emirate social organization in Algeria was based mainly on tribes, so the individuals were only attached to their tribes; the idea of nationalism was not known at that time. In war or conflict the tribes gathered together with their men and cavalry then go to war. Afterwards the men immediately returned to their tribes and continue with their daily work; military service was not applied with the tribes. The regular army of the emir was formed by volunteers. Recruitment was meant for young people from all regions and all tribes, called for jihad (Holy War) against the French invaders. Recruitment had no requirements and is for all ages and in all regions of the Emirate.\nThe emir organized an army to protect the Emirate because he knew that he would confront French armies that were better-trained and better-equipped,commanded by experienced officers and generals. The emir was the first leader to establish a national army in the modern history of Algeria. He also built factories to manufacture weapons using the experience of the French, Spaniards and Italians.\n\nHe called his army Jaish Al-Mohammadi (Mohammad’s Army) divided into three divisions: infantry, cavalry and artillery. Then he developed military law regarding discipline, recruitment, policies, salaries and weapons. The Jaish Al-Mohammadi was formed of 8,000 soldiers, 2,000 cavalry, 22,40 light cannons and 20 heavy cannons.\n\n\nEmir Abdelkader classed a unique uniform for each type of soldier, the cloth was linen and gasket. It consisted of a jacket of grey wool including a hood and trousers also made from wool are in blue also Sedria (vest) are in red. Every three months a soldier was given a shirt and a pair of shoes, yellow leather including a burnous (long cloak made from wool).\nThe Cavalry uniform consisted of a red jacket with black stripes on the sleeve seams and back, also a red vest decorated with blue hair on it. Each cavalryman was giving a haik which covered his head and shoulders, made from camel’s hair including a turban. \n\n\" لَا شَيْء أَكْثَرُ فَائِدَة مِنْ التَّقْوَى وَالشَّجَاعَةَ \"\n\nEach soldier had a leather bag which could be worn on a belt over the right shoulder, also a rifle with a bayonet, pistols and a yatagan (curved blade) attached to his belt, the cavalryman is armed with a rifle, yatagan and a pistol.\n\nFor food each soldier received 2 Kesra (Algerian bread) and a kilogram of flour and semolina to cook couscous twice a week, also a group of 20 men shared a sheep between them.\n\nThe wage of a soldier was paid from April to June monthly depending on rank:\n\n\nBoudjou: a currency used by the Turks in Algeria\n1 Boudjou = 50 Mohammadia\n\nIn the garrison soldiers often lived in rooms that had mats and carpets. In camp about 20 soldiers lived in a war tent.\n\nEach badge of embroidered sword on attached on each shoulder of the following soldiers including silver rings on their left hand.\n\n\n\nHe also sought to import weapons from the only country that opposed the French invasion of Algeria, England, but failed. The Emir endeavoured to build an arsenal of ammunition and weapons, both in Mascara and Takdempt with the assistance from foreign expertise so the Emir hired men with industrial experience in making weapons like the Spaniards, Italians and also French, the Emir also choose the best strategic locations that are fully fortified like the city of Miliana which he built an weaponry factory in its suburbs so he can manufacture ammunition and weapons.\n\nThe emir’s factory started to manufacture Algerian weapons. The Algerian Army used weapons captured by the Emir’s army from the French. Emir Abdelkader trained his army well and also set up special military combat and tactics, he also benefited from geographical locations like mountains and fields. The Emir always used to ambush the enemy forces and attack them surprisely this tactic which is known today as “guerrilla warfare”.\n\nAbdelkader divided his emirate into administrative provinces to facilitate management and ease the burden on the central government.\n\nEach province was divided into districts which divides into groups of tribes. The head of a district was called Agha and the Sheikh was the head of a group of tribes.\n\nEmir Abdelkader Al-Jazairi, designed a new banner, green silk bars above and below a center of white silk. A hand drawn on the white center was surrounded by golden words \"victory from Allah and the reconquest is near, and the victory by emir abdelkader\"\n\nThe emblem of the state was a hexagram shape, with writings around the circumference of the shape, which are: Allah, Mohammed (Peace Be Upon Him), Abu Bakr, Omar, Othman and Ali. In the middle of the star it says Nasir Al-Din Emir Adbelkader Ben Muhieddine.\n\nEducation was a primary concern of the Emir. He was confident that developing in this field is to take care of books and references whatever the value of it scientific, literary and therefore the Emir was trying his best to collecting books from different subjects like buying, copying or transporting them.\n\nThe Emir also issued strict orders to his soldiers not to mishandle or disrespect the books and breaking these orders would be punished severely. He also used to encourage by rewarding them for any one that brings a book or the author, to copy one manuscript it would take several months to copy it and this was a long time for the Emir because his Emirate was in war with French invaders.\n\nThis policy had great success in bringing books from different fields to his emirate, the Emir also build a library to store and organize these books that he has gathered but he also linked the library with many organizations in the emirate like schools, masjids and Zawiya (religious schools), the library was open to everyone students, scholars and even soldiers. He also used to store a huge number of manuscripts in the Takdempt Fortress where he used to keep not only manuscripts but also classified state documents and diplomatic letters.\n\nThe emir took care of books and manuscripts even in war; he transported all the books and manuscripts that had been stored in Takdempt fortress to Smala after the Takdempt fortress fell to French invaders, but in 1843 French soldiers seized the books and manuscripts when Smala fell. The Emir also chose qualified teachers to develop education in the emirate, supported the teachers financially and morally and gave them wages to them depending on their qualification as he also build schools across his emirate in villages, towns and cities.\n\nAfter establishing the emirate and dividing it administratively, the emir appointed in every region a Qadi (religious judge) who would rule in accordance with Islamic religious law (sharia) on the doctrine of Imam Malik. Justice is the basis of governance, so he set requirements for judges: to be honest, just, chaste and practise Islam. To ensure that the judiciary ran well, the Emir paid each judge a respectable monthly wage of 100 Douro (50 Francs) and additional payments based on the type of case he judged. The Emir separated the civil and military judiciary, then appointed for each department a special judge to decides the issues and cases. The judge could be elected for one year only.\n\nThe emir also recruited two clerics for all regional councils. The senior cleric studied fatwas (legal judgments) issued by the judge of a particular region then he sent them to Mascara for deeper study. Then the Emir linked all the judges in the regions to review their cases with Supreme Qadi Ahmed ben Al-Hashemi Al-Mrahi.\n\nThe Emir was also keen for the provisions of the civil and military judiciary to come under Sharia (Islamic religious law) which the Emir made the main source and the only source for rule in his Emirate. Its provisions derive from the Quran, Sunnah (teachings and practices of Muhammad) and ijtihad (Islamic diligence) and remind the people of the days of Rashidun Caliphate and also wipe out the bad taste from Turkish rule in Algeria. He considered the success of the new established Emirate to have been removing the corruption inherited from the Turks and working to change the old relations and unify the Algerian people. This policy met with a success which united the Algerian people under his Emirate so he later was able to face the French invasion of his country.\n\nImmediately and especially if there was a threat against the homeland, like dealing with an enemy, response to threats intended to deter others, with no appeal. “He who helps the enemy financially will be financially punished (fines) and the one who helps the enemy physically will be punished by cutting off their heads (executions),” he said.\n\nAnd so in justice and security, people lived peacefully under the flag of a popular national emirate, crime vanished and calm returned after the chaos that had followed the fall of Turkish rule in Algeria. The emir also fought ethical corruption in society, banning prostitution, drinking alcohol and drugs across his emirate, as he also banned the soldiers from playing cards and wearing gold and silver except in their weapons and horses and also ordered them to pray at the masjid.\n\nThe Emir said “Know that the only purpose of my acceptance of this position (Emir) only that you will be safe on yourselves and your honour and your wealth assured on your country enjoying your religious duties and I cannot reach that except with your help by money or men.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55999528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55999528", "title": "Fascist syndicalism", "text": "Fascist syndicalism\n\nFascist syndicalism (related to national syndicalism) was a trade syndicate movement (\"syndicat\" means trade union in French) that rose out of the pre-World War II provenance of the revolutionary syndicalism movement led mostly by Edmondo Rossoni, Sergio Panunzio, A. O. Olivetti, Michele Bianchi, Alceste De Ambris, Paolo Orano, Massimo Rocca, and Guido Pighetti, under the influence of French Marxist Georges Sorel, who was considered the “‘metaphysician’ of syndicalism.” The Fascist Syndicalists differed from other branches of syndicalism in that they generally favored class struggle, worker-controlled factories and hostility to industrialists, which lead historians to portray them as “leftist fascist idealists” who “differed radically from right fascists.” Generally considered one of the more radical Fascist syndicalists in Italy, Rossoni was the “leading exponent of fascist syndicalism.”, and sought to infuse nationalism with “class struggle.”\nSometimes considered the “father” of revolutionary syndicalism or at least “the leading figure amongst the French Syndicalists”,Georges Sorel supported militant trade unionism to combat the corrupting influences of parliamentary parties and politics, even if the legislators were distinctly socialist. As a French Marxist who supported Lenin, Bolshevism and Mussolini concurrently in the early 1920s, Sorel promoted the cause of the proletariat in class struggle, and the “catastrophic polarization” that would arise through social myth-making of general strikes. The intention of syndicalism was to organize strikes to abolish capitalism, not to supplant it with State socialism, but rather to build a society of worker-class producers, which Sorel regarded as “truly true” in Marxism.\nIn his 1908 book, \" Reflections on Violence\", Sorel provided the justification for \"syndicats\" as an effort to organize workers in violent uprisings, to convince workers not to be ashamed of acts of violence, and that they should be scornful of “politics, the Republic and patriotism.” In this Sorelian sense, the violence associated with Marxist class struggle, could be interpreted as fine, heroic and in the service of the “immemorial interest of civilization.” Many European socialists joined the ranks of the revolutionary syndicalists, including Benito Mussolini, who claimed that he had succumbed to revolutionary syndicalism by 1904, citing that it occurred during a general strike, although he had been involved with syndicalism earlier.\nBy 1909, Sorel became disappointed over the compromising policies of socialist parliamentarians, the movement towards democratic socialism and the decadence of the proletariat who were seduced by the “mirage of enormous economic benefits.” In Sorel’s opinion, the proletariat was neither responding to his expectations of revolutionary change nor the dreams of Marx’s “magnificent epic.” This reassessment of Marxism led Sorel to adopt Benedetto Croce’s aphorism that “Socialism is dead.” During this period, many of Sorel’s criticisms and writings about socialism were in response to the profound “crisis of Marxism.”, where he, according to Antonio Labriola, expounds on it with gusto and converted this “crisis into one of socialism.”\nTo Sorel, the integrity and intellectualism of Marxism was decomposing, and the “heroic proletariat” appeared to have been either non-existent or shown to be as “much corrupted by utilitarianism as the bourgeoisie.” According to Sorel, the power of democratic-republican governments was debasing the revolutionary initiative of the worker class which forced him to search for other alternatives, including a nationalism, but one devoid of any monarchism. In order to resolve this crisis of socialism, Sorel turned toward an anti-democratic socialism that encompasses a radical nationalism, while still holding to his support of worker-owned factories, but under a heretic Marxism divested of it “materialistic and rationalistic essence.”\nIn 1909, Sorel published an article in Enrico Leone’s \"Il Divenire sociale\", an influential journal of revolutionary syndicalism in Italy, which was later reprinted and championed by Charles Maurras in the \"L’Action française\" entitled “Antiparliamentary Socialist.” Sorel was not the first to drift towards nationalism and syndicalism. During the years of 1902 to 1910 a cadre of Italian revolutionary syndicalists had embarked on a mission to combine Italian nationalism with syndicalism. They were later to become “founders of the Fascist movement,” and “held key posts” in Mussolini's regime. Generally, Italian syndicalism finally coalesced into national syndicalism during World War I and the months following the 1918 armistice.\nMaurras welcomed Sorel’s support in that they both were concerned over French socialism reaching the path of no return in its rush towards “democratization,” coalescing into a formidable Social Democracy movement. To Maurras, the purity of socialism had to abstain from being captured by seduction of democracy, declaring that “socialism liberated from the democratic and cosmopolitan element fits nationalism well as a well made glove fits a beautiful hand.” But such thoughts were not unusual for many European socialists during this period, such as Philippe Buchez and Ferdinand Lassalle who “despised democracy and exalted the nation.” Due to his aversion to democracy, Sorel and the syndicalists rejected political parties and democratic institutions as well as the “Marxist dictatorship of the proletariat,”but remained dutiful to Karl Marx’s opposition to democracy and elections. Earlier, Marx had confessed that his revolutionary activities in the Revolution of 1848 was “nothing but a plan of war against democracy.”\nIn an attempt to save Marxism, Sorel gravitated towards the creation of a synthesis of populism and nationalism that also included “the crudest of anti-Semitism.” By this time, Sorel and other syndicalists concluded that proletarian violence was ineffectual since the “proletariat was incapable of fulfilling its revolutionary role,” an assessment that persuaded many to see the nation-state as the best means by which to establish a proletarian-based society, which later congealed into the fascist concept of proletarian nationalism.\nMany revolutionary syndicalists followed Sorel and his Sorelian socialism towards the allure of a radical nationalism after he praised Maurras and displayed his sympathies for French integral nationalism in 1909. The appeal that Charles Maurras presented was his nationalistic approach against bourgeois democracy, the Enlightenment, and “its liberalism, its individualism, and its conception of society as an aggregate of individuals.” This trend continued and by 1911, revolutionary syndicalists had acknowledged that two important antirational political currents had come together, forging “a new nationalism and revolutionary socialism.” This coalescence finally surfaced as a major facet of Italian Fascism, where Mussolini himself confessed: “What I am, I owe to Sorel.” The Israeli historian Zeev Sternhell, considered a leading expert on fascism, asserted that this integration of syndicalism with unpatriotic nationalism was a factor in why “Italian revolutionary syndicalism became the backbone of fascist ideology.”\nMussolini was one of the first to comingle the phrase fascism with syndicalism, remarking in the early 1920s that “Fascist syndicalism is national and productivistic… in a national society in which labor becomes a joy, an object of pride and a title to nobility.” Most Italian syndicalists viewed social revolution as a means for rapid transformation to provide “superior productivity,” and if this economic abundance failed to occur, there could be no meaningful social change. The emphasis by syndicalists towards the importance of “productivism” had been originally initiated by Sorel in 1907, who argued that “Marx considers that a revolution by a proletariat of producers who [have] acquired economic capacity.” When Carlo Cafiero developed a compendium for the initial volume of Capital in Italian, Marx reminded his colleague that “material conditions necessary for the emancipation of the proletariat” must be “spontaneously generated by the development of capitalism (\"den Gang der kapitalistischen Produktion\").”\nThe support for the theory of productionism expanded among Fascist syndicalists after Lenin expropriated most of the private sector in Soviet Russia, causing the economy to collapse, high unemployment and an environment where “most of the mills and factories were at a standstill; mines and collieries were wrecked and flooded.” The extraordinary high unemployment rate in Soviet Russia alarmed most syndicalists, who believed that such a condition was impossible under a proletarian state.\nAfter the Soviet economy fell and Lenin introduced his New Economic Policy (NEP), Italian syndicalists continued to move further away from orthodox Marxism, determined to revise it to fit the changing times and to embolden its strategic goals. They argued that the Russian Bolsheviks had failed to adhere to Engels’ 1850 admonition about the dangers of trying to establish a social revolution within an economically backwards environment. This drift had emerged years before the economic malaise of Soviet Russia, prompting most Italian syndicalists to transcend the errors and drawbacks that “they believed they found in orthodox Marxism.” Developed to bring about worker control of the means of production by direct action, the intellectuals of syndicalism came to the realization that Italy’s primitive economy could facilitate neither equality nor abundance for society. Without a mature industry developed by the bourgeois, they came to understand that a successful social revolution required the support of “classless” revolutionaries. Mussolini, along with Italian syndicalists, Nationalists and Futurists, contended that those revolutionaries would be Fascists, not Marxists or some other ideology. According to Mussolini and other syndicalist theoreticians, Fascism would be “the socialism of ‘proletarian nations.’”\nFascist syndicalists also became preoccupied with the idea of increasing production instead of simply establishing a redistributive economic structure. Sergio Panunzio, a major theoretician of Italian Fascism and syndicalism, believed that Syndicalists were productivists, rather than distributionists. In his criticism of the Bolsheviks’ handling of their economy, Panunzio also asserted that Russian Soviet state had become a “dictatorship \"over\" the proletariat, and not \"of\" the proletariat.”\nWhen Rossoni was selected as the secretary-general of the General Confederation of Fascist Syndical Corporations in December 1922, other Italian syndicalists began to affirm the “Fascist syndicalism” catchphrase in their aim at “building and reorganizing political structures… through a synthesis of State and labor.” Rossoni and his Fascist syndicalist cadre were soon regarded as “radical or leftist elements,” who sought to protect the economic interests of “workers and to preserve their class consciousness.” Rossoni strove to build a “collective interest in the economy,” that would subject employers to Fascist discipline while providing a more substantial role for workers to make economic decisions.\nIn an effort to set the basic revolutionary direction of the Fascist state, Rossoni argued that Fascist syndicalism should be at the forefront, proclaiming in Mussolini’s \"Il Popolo d'Italia\" newspaper that “only the Fascist syndicates could complete the revolution.” In his early anti-capitalist polemics, Rossoni claimed that capitalism “depressed and annulled production rather than stimulating and developing it” and that industrialists were “apathetic, passive, and ignorant.”\nBy early 1923 industrialists and factory owners were becoming alarmed by the Fascist syndicalists’ verbal assaults on the business community and capitalism, provoking a number of them to wonder if it was “now wise to pay the Communists to fight the Fascists!” As the unrelenting attack continued, Rossoni by 1926 was steadfast in his accusations that depicted industrialists as “vampires” and “profiteers.” Rossoni not only targeted big industrialists for their collective avarice, but also focused his criticisms against the “offensive greed of small shop-keepers.”\nIn some cases, Rossoni’s pro-labor stances worried industrialists due to his philosophic interpretation of Marx’s “dynamic law of history,” which lead him to support the eventuality of workers’ control of factories. He argued that industrialists had a legitimate right to assume their positions, but only until “such time as workers, organized into new syndicates, had mastered the requisite competence to take command.”\nThe Fascist syndicalists’ hostility towards employers caused political troubles for Mussolini’s regime before and after he established a one-party dictatorship in early 1925. But despite the controversies, Rossoni held on to his position until he was forced to resign in 1928, probably due to fears over his almost 3 million-strong union membership that had greatly surpassed the National Fascist Party membership. Although independent labor unions in Italy were not nationalized until April 3, 1926, under Alfredo Rocco’s Syndical Laws, Fascist syndicates by 1922 had become a “major recruitment competitor for the socialist and Catholic worker organizations.” After peaking to a membership of over 2,000,000 members by 1920, the independent General Confederation of Labor was reduced to 400,000 members by mid-1922. Other unions fared just as poorly. The Catholic syndicates of the \"Popolari\" had 1.2 million members in 1921, but by the later part of 1922, it was down to 540,000. Nonetheless, Rossoni was treated as a valuable leader in Mussolini’s administration, becoming a member of the Grand Council of Fascism from 1930-1943 and other high positions.\nMuch of the increased membership in Fascist syndicates stemmed from the deteriorating economic conditions that occurred during the long factory strikes in the early 1920s that had been spearheaded by revolutionary socialists. The occupied factories suffered financial problems, a shortage of cash to pay wages, and a slump in productivity levels.” When factory workers started to abandon factories, “red guards” were employed to keep workers at their work stations, in some cases forcing workers to “work under threat of violence.” What also contributed to the success of the Fascist union organizations was their strong affiliation to the Fascist party, a policy that was not taken up by the Italian Socialist Party and other labor confederations.\nThere were a number of variants of Fascist syndicalism, ranging from the more moderate to the radical. One of the more radical fascist syndicalist was the philosopher Ugo Spirito. Considered as a “left fascist,” Spirito supported the struggle for a populist type of “corporativism”, a sort of proprietary corporation that provided the features of “collective ownership without undesirable economic centralization.”\nBesides Rossoni, Sergio Panunzio and A. O. Olivetti were considered the “most coherent” Italian syndicalists who have been classified as the “Fascist left” by historians. They identified Fascism and syndicalist ideology as a replacement for parliamentary liberalism so as to modernize the economy and advance the interests of workers and common people as well as “modernize the economy.”\nTo Rossoni, corporations were viewed as the best institutions to promote “economic justice and social solidarity” among producers.\nLuigi Razzo, who headed a Fascist trade union confederations (agriculture workers), thought that economy organizations represented the most important political element for the Fascist regime because they would provide workers with a “serious role in decision-making—especially in regulating the economy.”\nThrough this “\"fascos corporativism\",” the true economic nation would have the means to govern itself as economics and politics grew closer towards a convergence. This unification of politics and economics was the “core of the left-fascist conception” for most fascist syndicalists, who upheld fascism as a political idea and principle, but not as an economic system. The Fascist state’s duty was to discipline production and economic activities, organized under economic groupings and collective interest, while no longer allowing the economy to operate on its own.\nMussolini had been responsive to Rossoni in his effort to stop cuts in real wages, maintain the 8-hour week, and create a new “Charter of Labor” that would complete the Fascist labor legislation to guarantee the rights of workers, which resulted in vague gains for labor. But Mussolini had been more forceful in similar pro-labor approaches in the past. In the 1919 \"Unione Italiana del Lavoro\" (UIL) strike at the \"Franchi e Gregorini\" metallurgical plant in Dalmine, he supported workers’ occupation of factories. Calling them “creative strikes,” Mussolini insisted that workers “have a right to ‘parity’” with factory owners, and to engage in strikes to achieve it. His main caveat was that the strike should not interrupt production, and that workers show both a willingness to participate as equals in the production process and the competence to discharge obligations in pursuit of the strike.\nDespite the official policy of Mussolini to uphold class collaboration, the “left corporativists” in Italy continued to see class differences as inevitable, believing class-based organizations essential if corporations were to genuinely involve workers. Mussolini had decided to move in another direction, concluding by late 1917 that orthodox Marxism was largely irrelevant for revolutionaries in industrially backward nations. Mussolini and Fascist intellectuals reasoned that if the bourgeoisie could not fulfill their historical obligations and advance a nation’s industry infrastructure, then the task had to be relegated to the popular masses and elite vanguard, which would require a commitment to class collaboration so as to serve the community’s productive potential through proletariat and bourgeoisie producers. Mussolini described this collaboration between classes as a new democracy—“a sane and honest regime of productive classes.” Mussolini’s opposition to class struggle echoed an earlier sentiment of Marxist reformers and Social Democrats, including Eduard Bernstein, who maintained that “socialists needed to stress cooperation and evolution rather than class conflict and revolution.”\nSome contend that “Mussolini’s far-left syndicalism” had merged with the far-right nationalism of Gabriel D’Annunzo, birthing a new revision of fascism by 1922. Others assert that up to late 1921, Mussolini still preferred to rename his Fascist Revolutionary Party (PFR) the “Fascist Labor Party” in an effort to retain his reputation as being loyal to the left-wing tradition of supporting trade unionism, especially if he and his fascist leaders could win the support of the General Confederation of Labor (CGL). Mussolini abandoned his proposed labor coalition with the socialists at the Third Fascist Congress (Nov. 7-10, 1921) in a conciliatory manner to appease the violent squadistsi militias who strove to curtail the power of revolutionary socialists and labor unions. Nonetheless, by 1934, Mussolini began to reverse many of his market-maturity positions and boasted that he had put three-fourths of the Italian economy in the “hands of the state.” After he was confined in Northern Italy as a puppet government for the Nazis in 1943, Mussolini sought to return to his previous left-wing syndicalist roots and promote “socialization,” under the Italian Social Republic. In early 1944, Mussolini’s “socialization law” called for additional nationalization of industry that would pursue a policy where “workers were to participate in factory and business management.”\n"}
{"id": "40576276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40576276", "title": "Government Security Classifications Policy", "text": "Government Security Classifications Policy\n\nThe Government Security Classifications Policy (GSCP) is a new system for classifying sensitive government data in the United Kingdom.\n\nHistorically, the Government Protective Marking Scheme was used by government bodies in the UK; it divides data into UNCLASSIFIED, PROTECT, RESTRICTED, CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET and TOP SECRET. This system was designed for paper-based records; it is not easily adapted to modern government work and is not widely understood.\n\nThe GSCP uses three levels of classification: OFFICIAL, SECRET and TOP SECRET. This is simpler than the old model and there is no direct relationship between the old and new classifications. \"Unclassified\" is deliberately omitted from the new model. Government bodies are not expected to automatically remark existing data, so there may be cases where organisations working under the new system still handle some data marked according to the old system.\n\nInformation Asset Owners continue to be responsible for information. The new policy does not specify particular IT security requirements - IT systems should be built and used in accordance with existing guidance from CESG.\n\nEverybody who works with government - including contractors and suppliers - is responsible for protecting information they work with, regardless of whether it has a protective marking.\n\nAggregation does not automatically trigger an increase in protective marking. For instance, a database with thousands of records which are individually OFFICIAL should not be relabeled as a SECRET database. Instead, information owners are expected to make decisions about controls based on a risk assessment, and should consider what the aggregated information is, who needs to access it, and how.\n\nOFFICIAL includes most public-sector data, including a wide range of information on day-to-day government business. It is not subject to any special risks. Personal data would usually be OFFICIAL. The data should be protected by controls based on commercial best practice instead of expensive, difficult specialist technology and bureaucracy. There is no requirement to mark every document as \"OFFICIAL\" - it is understood that this is the default for government documents.\n\nOrganisations may add \"descriptors\" to highlight particular types of official data, for instance commercially sensitive information about contracts, or diplomatic data which should not be seen by locally hired embassy staff. These descriptors do not automatically require special controls. \"OFFICIAL\" will usually include the kinds of data that were previously UNCLASSIFIED, RESTRICTED, or CONFIDENTIAL; but this may vary.\n\nThe threat model for OFFICIAL data is similar to typical large private-sector organisations; it anticipates that individual hackers, pressure groups, criminals, and investigative journalists might attempt to get information. The threat model does not guarantee protection against very persistent and skilled attacks, for instance by organised crime groups or by foreign governments; these are possible, but normal controls would make them more difficult, and much stronger controls would be disproportionate. People with routine access to OFFICIAL information should be subject to BPSS screening.\n\nOFFICIAL may include data which is subject to separate regulatory requirements, such as the Data Protection Act (personal data) or PCI DSS (card payments).\n\nOFFICIAL-SENSITIVE is an additional caveat for OFFICIAL data where it is particularly important to enforce need to know rules. OFFICIAL-SENSITIVE documents should be marked, but they are not necessarily tracked.\n\n\"Very sensitive information\", which might (for example) seriously harm national defense or crime investigations. Data should only be marked as SECRET if the Senior Information Risk Owner (which is a board level position in an organisation) agrees that it is high-impact \"and\" that the data must be protected against very capable attackers. Although some specialist technology might be used to protect the data, there is still strong emphasis on reuse of commercial security tools.\n\nSECRET is a big step up from OFFICIAL; government bodies are warned against being overcautious and applying much stricter rules when OFFICIAL would be sufficient.\n\nPeople with routine access to SECRET information should usually have SC clearance. SECRET data may often be exempt from FOIA disclosure.\n\nData with exceptionally high impact levels; compromise would have very serious impacts - for instance, many deaths. This requires an extremely high level of protection, and controls are expected to be similar to those used on existing \"Top Secret\" data, including CESG-approved products. Very little risk can be tolerated in TOP SECRET, although no activity is completely risk-free.\n\nPeople with routine access to TOP SECRET information should usually have DV clearance. TOP SECRET information is assumed to be exempt from FOIA disclosure. Disclosure of such information is assumed to be above the threshold for Official Secrets Act prosecution.\n\nSpecial handling instructions are additional markings which used in conjunction with a classification marking to indicate the nature or source of its content, limit access to designated groups, and / or to signify the need for enhanced handling measures. In addition to a paragraph near the start of the document special handling instructions include Descriptors, Codewords, Prefixes and national caveats.\n\nA DESCRIPTOR is used with the security classification to identify certain categories of sensitive information and indicates the need for common sense precautions to limit access. The normal descriptors are 'COMMERCIAL’, 'LOCSEN’ and 'PERSONAL’.\n\nA Codeword is a single word expressed in CAPITAL letters that follows the security classification to providing security cover for a particular asset or event. They are usually only applied to SECRET and TOP SECRET assets.\n\nThe UK prefix is added to the security classification of all assets sent to foreign governments or international organisations. This prefix designates the UK as the originating country and that the British Government should be consulted before any possible disclosure.\n\nNational caveats follow the security classification. Unless explicitly named, information bearing a national caveat is not sent to foreign governments, overseas contractors, international organisations or released to any foreign nationals. Example\nWith the exception of British Embassies and Diplomatic Missions or Service units or establishments, assets bearing the UK EYES ONLY national caveat are not sent overseas.\n\nAs per the previous GPMS model, the choice of classification relates only to the data's confidentiality.\nUnlike the old model it replaces however, the GSCP does not consider the consequence of a compromise as the primary factor, but instead is based on the capability and motivation of potential threat actors (attackers) and the acceptability of that risk to the business.\n\nWhere a capable and motivated attacker such as a Foreign Intelligence Service, or Serious and Organised Crime are considered to be in scope of the data to be classified, the business must implicitly accept this risk to classify the data as OFFICIAL.\nIf they do not or cannot accept this risk they must at least initially consider the data to be SECRET, though it may be reduced to OFFICIAL or increased to TOP SECRET later when the consequences of a compromise are also considered.\n\nThe implication of this approach and the binary nature of determining if a risk from capable and motivated attackers is acceptable or not, means that data cannot easily progress through the GSCP in a linear fashion as it did through GPMS. \n\nThis is a complexity often lost on Information Asset Owners previously used to the strictly hierarchical tiered rising structure of GPMS (e.g. UNCLASSIFIED, PROTECT, RESTRICTED, CONFIDENTIAL, SECRET, TOP SECRET).\n\nBy contrast GSCP data starts either with an OFFICIAL OR SECRET classification depending on the nature of threat and its acceptability to the business, and thereafter moves up or down accordingly based on consequence of compromise.\n\nOFFICIAL data may therefore rise to TOP SECRET, but cannot be SECRET unless the risk previously accepted for a capable attacker is revised.\n\nSECRET data may be reduced to OFFICIAL where no serious consequences can be identified from a potential breach, or SECRET can also rise to TOP SECRET if serious consequences could arise. \n\nImpact levels also consider integrity and availability, but CESG's system of Business Impact Levels (BIL) is under review too and in most practical contexts have now fallen into disuse. \n\nIt is therefore no longer strictly the case that the greater the consequences if the data confidentiality were to be compromised, the higher the classification, since data with a high impact (including material which could result in threat to life) may still be classified as OFFICIAL if the relevant business owner believes it is not necessary to protect this from an attacker who has the capabilities of a Foreign Intelligence Service or Serious and Organised Crime.\n\nConversely some data with much lower consequences (for example ongoing Police investigations into a criminal group, or intelligence information relating to possible prosecutions) but where the business will not accept compromise from such an attacker could be classified as SECRET.\n\nGuidance issued in April 2014 at the implementation of the GSCP and still available on Gov.UK sources suggested that UK Government information systems would continue to be accredited much as before, normally using CESG Information Assurance Standard 1 & 2. \nThis has however been progressively discarded through GDS and NCSC blog statements since May 2014 and the IS1 & 2 standard itself is no longer maintained or mandated.\nAccreditation has also been largely replaced by alternative models of assurance aligned to various commercial practices. \n\nThe NAO report \"Protecting Information across Government\" (Sep 2016) was somewhat critical of the move to this model and the adoption of GSCP overall \n\nExisting published guidance continues to suggest that storage media which hold UK government data should still be destroyed or purged according to HMG IA Policy No. 5, however terminology in this guidance and other material has not been updated fully to reflect the changes from GPMS protective markings to GSCP classifications and as such its value is now arguably somewhat reduced as a published standard.\n\nHigher classifications still tend to require stricter personnel vetting.\n\nThe Government Security Classifications Policy was completed and published in December 2012; additional guidance and supporting processes were developed over time.\n\nGovernment bodies (and the armed forces) were expected to start using the GSCP in April 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34474465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34474465", "title": "Inge Kaul", "text": "Inge Kaul\n\nInge Kaul is an adjunct professor at the Hertie School of Governance, Berlin, Germany and advisor to various governmental, multilateral and non-profit organizations on policy options to meet global challenges. She specializes in Global public goods, with much of her work looking at international cooperation financing, public-private partnerships, global governance, global issue diplomacy and UN system reform. She was the first director of UNDP's Human Development Report Office, a position which she held from 1989 to 1994, where with Mahbub ul Haq she led the team working on the Human Development Report. She was then director of UNDP's Office of Development Studies from 1995 to 2005. She is the author of numerous publications on international public economics and finance and was the lead editor of the books \"Providing Global Public Goods: Managing Globalization\" and \"The New Public Finance: Responding to Global Challenges.\"\n\nInge Kaul has been a member of various select boards, panels and commissions, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48787533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48787533", "title": "Inês Brasil", "text": "Inês Brasil\n\nInês Tânia Lima da Silva (); born October 25, 1969), known professionally as Inês Brasil, is a German-Brazilian singer, dancer and internet celebrity. Inês became famous in Brazil in late 2012 after publishing an audition video for the 2013 edition of Big Brother Brasil on YouTube, which became viral. Since then, most of the videos she publishes on social media become viral.\n\nIn 2015, she released her first studio album, \"Make Love\", which contains original songs, as well as covers of classic MPB songs. Currently, she travels all across Brazil for concerts in clubs, performing around 20 concerts a month.\n\nInês Tânia Lima da Silva was born in Rio de Janeiro. She has eight brothers and two daughters, Monique Lima Karp, who is also her manager, and Julia. In the 90's, before fame, she became a prostitute in Rio de Janeiro. There she met her ex-husband Christian Karp, a German, who took her to live in Germany. The marriage lasted ten years. She lived in Germany for eighteen years, before returning to Brazil. Because she has lived so long in Germany, she also speaks German fluently.\n\nInês started her career at age 22 in a club called \"Oba-Oba\", a place where many shows took place. Her father was a singer and songwriter, and, along with her mother and siblings, she had a religious upbringing. The first time she sang was in a church. Later, she became a samba teacher in a school located in Rio de Janeiro. At this school she met her ex-husband, who helped her career develop and took her to Europe. He worked in a television channel in Germany and produced all her videos.\n\n\n\nMusic videos\n"}
{"id": "46283427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46283427", "title": "Islamic Republic of Iran Border Guard Command", "text": "Islamic Republic of Iran Border Guard Command\n\nIslamic Republic of Iran Border Guard Command (), commonly known as NAJA Border Guard (), is a subdivision of Law Enforcement Force of Islamic Republic of Iran (NAJA) and Iran's sole agency that performs border guard and control in land borders, and coast guard in maritime borders. The unit was founded in 2000, and from 1991 to 2000, the unit's duties was done by of Security deputy of NAJA. Before 1991, border control was Gendarmerie's duty.\n"}
{"id": "4951592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4951592", "title": "Jungmädelbund", "text": "Jungmädelbund\n\nThe Jungmädelbund (German for \"Young Girls' League\") was the section of the Hitler Youth for girls between the ages of 10 and 14. \n\nIt was called the \"Jungmädelbund\" in German, and commonly abbreviated in period and contemporary historical writings as JM. Since this was a girls' organization, it fell under the League of German Girls (BDM), which was led by the \"BDM-Reichsreferentin\" (National Speaker of the BDM), who reported to the overall head of the Hitler Youth, Baldur von Schirach (who was later succeeded by Artur Axmann).\n\nAfter the Gleichschaltung in 1933, the League of German Girls became the only girls' organization in the Third Reich. All other groups, including church groups and scouting organizations, were either absorbed into the Hitler Youth or banned. In 1936, the First Hitler Youth Law made membership compulsory for all girls aged 10 or older. The same law also made membership in the male Hitler Youth compulsory for all boys above the age of 10.\n\nNew members had to register for their service between March 1st and March 10th of every year. Registration was held at a local League of German Girls administrative office. Girls had to have completed fourth grade and meet the following requirements:\n\nIf a girl met those requirements, she was assigned to a Jungmädel group based on the geographical location she lived at. In order to become a full member, she had to now attend preparatory service which consisted of her participation of one Jungmädel meeting, one sports afternoon which was to include a test of her courage, and a lecture about the tasks of the Jungmädel.\n\nAfter she fulfilled these requirements, a ceremony was held to introduce new members into the rank of the Jungmädel on April 20th, Hitler's birthday. During the ceremony, new members were sworn in, presented with a membership certificate, and personally welcomed by their group leaders.\n\nIn order to become a \"full\" member, however, each girl had to pass the Jungmädel Challenge (\"Jungmädelprobe\"), which consisted of participation in a one-day trip with the group, and a number of sports requirements. Girls had six months to meet all the requirements of the Jungmädel Challenge and, on October 2nd of each year, those who passed became full members in another ceremony in which they were officially presented with the right to wear the black neckerchief and brown leather knot.\n\nA girl was then a full member of the Jungmädel and remained in the group until the age of 14, at which point she transferred into the League of German Girls (also known as the BDM, or \"Bund Deutscher Mädel\").\n\n"}
{"id": "42713624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42713624", "title": "List of Techialoyan codexes", "text": "List of Techialoyan codexes\n\nThis is a partial list of Techialoyan codexes.\n\nThese codexes established indigenous land claims in Mexico by documenting the founding and history of a town.\n\n\"Many of these documents are written with ink of European origin, in the Náhuatl language, using the Latin alphabet in capital letters and rough script, and often on amate (bark) paper.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30864313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864313", "title": "List of Vice-Presidents of Republika Srpska", "text": "List of Vice-Presidents of Republika Srpska\n\nThis article lists the Vice-Presidents of Republika Srpska.\n\nSince the 2002 general election, in compliance with constitutional changes, President of Republika Srpska has been a Serb and Vice-Presidents have been a Croat and Bosniak. \n\nBelow is a list of office-holders:\n"}
{"id": "625858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625858", "title": "List of memorials to James K. Polk", "text": "List of memorials to James K. Polk\n\nThis is a list of places named for James K. Polk, 11th president of the United States 1845–49 during the Mexican–American War.:\n\n\nPolk County, Missouri, was named after Ezekiel Polk, President Polk's grandfather. Polk County, North Carolina, was named after Col. William Polk, President Polk's first cousin, once removed, who fought in the American Revolutionary War.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132193", "title": "List of wartime cross-dressers", "text": "List of wartime cross-dressers\n\nMany people have engaged in cross-dressing during wartime under various circumstances and for various motives. This has been especially true of women, whether while serving as a soldier in otherwise all-male armies, while protecting themselves or disguising their identity in dangerous circumstances, or for other purposes.\n\nConversely, men would dress as women to avoid being drafted, the mythological precedent for this being Achilles hiding at the court of Lycomedes dressed as a girl to avoid participation in the Trojan War.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40408701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40408701", "title": "List of whips in the Australian Senate", "text": "List of whips in the Australian Senate\n\nWhips have managed business and maintained party discipline for Australia's federal political parties in the Senate since Federation. Though the Remuneration Tribunal and parliamentary website refer to the senior Labor and Liberal whips as \"chief\" whips and their junior whips as \"deputy whips\", the parties tend to refer to the senior whips as \"whips\" when announcing their officeholders to the Senate. A number of Senate whips have gone on to serve as ministers, and several as Leader of the Government or Leader of the Opposition in the Senate.\n\nIn addition to those below, Kay Denman served as a deputy whip from 18 September to 31 December 1995, a period when one of Labor's two whips was on leave of absence while conducting parliamentary business overseas.\n\nIn May 1996, following the 1996 election, the two members of the Western Australian Greens in the Senate announced they were to be whip and deputy whip of their party. The deputy whip, Christabel Chamarette, had lost her seat at the election, and left the Senate just over a month after the announcement. The party lost its other seat (and its whip) at the 1998 election, with her leaving office in June 1999. The party only merged with the Australian Greens in 2003, after it lost its senators.\n\nThe Australian Greens appointed their first whip in the Senate when the party increased from two to four members in 2005. She became entitled to a salary when the party increased to five members in 2008.\nOne Nation first entered the Senate in 1999, but had only one seat and consequently did not elect a whip. The party's senator was defeated in 2004 and left the Senate in 2005. In 2016, four One Nation senators were elected, and the party elected a whip for the first time.\n\nSenator Nick Xenophon entered the Senate as an independent in 2008. In 2016 he ran as part of the Nick Xenophon Team, which saw Xenophon and two of his running mates (and a lower house MP) elected, so the Nick Xenophon Team elected a whip.\n\nThe Democratic Labour Party (until 2013 the Democratic \"Labor\" Party) elected its first whip in 1968, when its membership increased from two to four. The party continued to do so until 1974, when the party lost all its seats at the double dissolution election. The party re-entered the Senate following the 2010 election, but did not have a whip as it only had one senator, who left the party in 2014.\nThe Palmer United Party won three Senate seats at the 2013 election, the new senators taking their seats on 1 July 2014. Two of the three had left within a year, but the remaining senator retained the position of whip until his defeat in 2016.\n\nThe Australian Democrats first elected a whip in 1981, reflecting an increase from two to five of the party's Senate membership. The party lost all its seats at the 2007 election, and its senators duly left their seats the following June.\n"}
{"id": "28924543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28924543", "title": "Mandela Park Backyarders", "text": "Mandela Park Backyarders\n\nThe Mandela Park Backyarders or just Backyarders is an unfunded Khayelitsha-based South African social movement made up of poor and marginalised residents of Mandela Park that is working for housing rights and against evictions.\n\nThe focus of the movement is on providing legal support for residents on housing issues, fighting for the rights of its members in relation to government housing policies, as well as conducting workshops and democratic discussions about housing issues.\n\nThe movement claims to be a socialist movement that believes in direct democracy through open mass meetings with all members invited.\n\nMandela Park Backyarders have alleged widespread corruption in government housing allocation in Mandela Park. They have been successful in compelling the Provincial Housing Department towards organising a probe into the illegal buying and selling of RDP houses in the area. Backyarder protests have also forced provincial government to fire corrupt contractors from Mandela Park developments.\n\nIn September 2009, Mandela Park Backyarders protested against what they called a false promise of 23 houses from MEC for Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela. 23 Backyarders were then arrested for allegedly vandalising government property. However, Backyarders claim that the 23 members were not involved and that police arrested anyone they could find connected to the Backyarder movement. The case was dismissed due to lack of evidence.\n\nThe Backyarders have become increasingly critical of voting whose purpose they see as providing legitimacy to corrupt politicians despite little change in their condition. They have become fed-up with the voting process which they see as an undemocratic ritual and have threatened not to vote in the upcoming elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "146728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146728", "title": "Military dictatorship", "text": "Military dictatorship\n\nA military dictatorship is a form of government wherein a military force exerts complete or substantial control over political authority.\n\nA military dictatorship is different from civilian dictatorship for a number of reasons: their motivations for seizing power, the institutions through which they organize their rule and the ways in which they leave power. Often viewing itself as saving the nation from the corrupt or myopic civilian politicians, a military dictatorship justifies its position as \"neutral\" arbiters on the basis of their membership within the armed forces. For example, many juntas adopt titles such as \"Committee of National Restoration\", or \"National Liberation Committee\". Military leaders often rule as a junta, selecting one of themselves as a head.\n\nOccasionally military dictatorship is called khakistocracy. The term is a portmanteau word combining \"kakistocracy\" with \"khaki\", the tan-green camouflage colour used in most modern army uniforms.\n\nMost military dictatorships are formed after a \"coup d'état\" has overthrown the previous government.\n\nMilitary dictatorships may gradually restore significant components of civilian government while the senior military commander still maintains executive political power. In Pakistan, ruling Generals Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq (1977–1988) and Pervez Musharraf (1999–2008) have held referendums to elect themselves President of Pakistan for additional terms forbidden by the constitution.\n\nIn the past, military juntas have justified their rule as a way of bringing political stability for the nation or rescuing it from the threat of \"dangerous ideologies\". For example the threat of communism, socialism, and Islamism was often used. Military regimes tend to portray themselves as non-partisan, as a \"neutral\" party that can provide interim leadership in times of turmoil, and also tend to portray civilian politicians as corrupt and ineffective. One of the almost universal characteristics of a military government is the institution of martial law or a permanent state of emergency.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41990255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41990255", "title": "Nari Mukti Sangh", "text": "Nari Mukti Sangh\n\nNari Mukti Sangh () (English: \"Women's Liberation Association\") is a women's organisation in India, with a base of supporters in Bihar and Jharkhand. The organisation was founded in March 1990, during a women's conference at Talekocha in Giridih, which was held to organise women to wrestle against the exploitation, oppression and atrocities faced by them. An executive committee of the organisation was also elected at the conference. It had seven members, including its president, secretary and a treasurer. Presently, the Nari Mukti Sangh (NMS) draws considerable membership from the states of Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Delhi.\n\nThe organisation is influenced from \"(scientific) Marxism, Leninism and Maoism\", and \"believes that national problems can be solved through people's struggle and on the basis of independence, democracy, equality, women's liberation and socialism.\" The NMS describes India as a \"semi-feudal\" country, and avers that \"without a radical transformation of the state, women liberation is not possible.\"\n\nThe organisation strives to generate \"space to women’s voice\" and motivates them to partake in \"economic, political and social activity and decision making processes.\" The NMS's volunteers goes from village to village in Bihar and Jharkhand, and with the collaboration of local women, tries to mete out punishment to \"perpetrators of sexual violence through people’s courts\", and endeavours to cordially straighten out the quarrels amongst family members.\" It also organises \"kranti ka paathshaala\" \"(school of revolution)\" to educate women, and so far has enabled thousands of women to read and write.\nShoma Sen writes,\nThe NMS has become a cynosure in Jharkhand for their campaign in Pirtand forests of Giridih district to save the trees. They educate villagers about the significance of trees for humans and wildlife, and make them conscious about the possibilities of future natural disasters if the trees would be continuously cut down ignorantly. They have also alarmed to penalise the offenders with a fine of 1,000 or face physical punishment.\n\nThe NMS is believed to be a \"front organisation\" of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and is also viewed as an arm of the Maoist Coordination Center.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35718515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35718515", "title": "National Security Service (Uzbekistan)", "text": "National Security Service (Uzbekistan)\n\nThe National Security Service (Uzbek \"Milliy Xavfsizlik Xizmati\", \"MXX\"; in Russian \"Служба национальной безопасности\", \"СНБ\", often romanised as \"SNB\") is the national intelligence agency of the government of Uzbekistan. It was created as a successor to the KGB following the collapse of the Soviet Union, and retains the same responsibilities and a similar range of functional units, including paramilitary police and special forces. The SNB was a rival of the Interior Ministry until 2005, when it was brought under its control.\n\nThe SNB is described by Amnesty International and the Institute for War and Peace Reporting as a secret police force.\n\nRustam Inoyatov has been the head of the SNB since 1995. \n\nThe deputy director of the SNB was in 2005 appointed Minister of the Interior. A reorganisation of the security and counter-terrorism agencies in the aftermath of the Andijan massacre significantly increased the power and resources of the SNB.\n\nSome analysts maintain that the SNB is under the control of the Tashkent clan, a powerful faction within the Uzbek elite. \n\nThe SNB has been closely associated with the authoritarian administration of President Islam Karimov, and has been accused of involvement in human rights abuses and in sponsoring acts of terrorism to provide a pretext for repressive policing. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has reported claims that the 1999 Tashkent bombings were carried out by the SNB, then led by Rustam Inoyatov of the Tashkent clan, and that the SNB may also have been responsible for a series of bombings in 2004 in Tashkent and Bukhara.\n\nFear of the SNB is so widespread in Uzbekistan that it is considered dangerous to say its name in public.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State's 2004 Country Report on Human Rights Practices in Uzbekistan stated that SNB officials \"tortured, beat, and harassed\" citizens.\n\nOn 13 May 2005 SNB troops, along with military and Interior Ministry forces, killed a large number of protesters in Andijan, in an event that became known as the Andijan massacre. Estimates of those killed range widely, from the official figure of 187 to upwards of 1,000. The protests related to the arrest of a group of local businessmen, and the massacre was preceded by disorder including, according to Pravda, an attempt to seize the regional headquarters of the SNB.\n\nThe OpenNet Initiative reports that the SNB is extensively involved in Internet censorship. The OpenNet Initiative reports that the SNB:\n\nThe SNB is known to have special purpose units \"Alfa\", \"Cobra\", and \"Scorpion\" under its direct command. The Border Service and Customs Service of Uzbekistan answer to the SNB since being placed under its control in 2005. With corruption in the Country being the highest, the organization fully separated itself from the Nation but stays under mafia control.\n"}
{"id": "5826764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5826764", "title": "Peace of Philocrates", "text": "Peace of Philocrates\n\nPeace of Philocrates is the name given to the peace treaty concluded in 346 BC between Athens and Macedon under Philip II. Philocrates was the name of the main Athenian negotiator of the Treaty.\n\nAthens and Macedon had been at war since 356 BC, after Philip's capture of the Athenian colonies of Pydna and Potidea. Shortly afterwards, the Third Sacred War began after the Phocian seizure of the Temple of Apollo in Delphi. Athens allied herself with Phocis, against the other members of the Amphictyonic League. In 354 or 353 BCE, the Thessalians, having been defeated by the Phocians, requested that Philip become archon of Thessaly, to which Philip assented, drawing Macedon into the Sacred War. In 352 BC, Philip's erstwhile ally, the Chalkidian League (led by Olynthos), alarmed by Philip's growing power, sought to ally themselves with Athens, in clear breach of their alliance with Philip. In response, Philip attacked Chalkidiki in 349 BC, and by 348 BC, had completely destroyed the Chalkidian League, razing Olynthos in the process.\n\nThe prominent Athenian politician Philocrates had suggested offering Philip peace in 348 BC, during the Olynthian war. However, the Athenian \"Ecclesia\" (assembly) had effectively rejected this proposal by putting Philocrates on trial, and by the time he was cleared of the charges, it was too late to save Olynthos. The war between Athens and Philip thus continued through 347 BC, as did the Sacred War. In 347 BC, Philip sent privateers to attack Athenians colonies on various Aegean islands.\n\nPhilip had not involved himself in the Sacred War since his victory at the Crocus Field in 352 BC. In the meantime, it became clear that the Sacred War could only be ended by outside intervention. In 347 BC, the Thebans appealed to Philip for aid, and he sent a small force to their assistance. That force was large enough to honour his alliance with Thebes, but not enough to end the war—he desired the glory of ending the war personally, in the manner of his choosing, and on his terms.\n\nIn early 346 BC, Philip let it be known that he intended to march south with the Thessalians, though not where or why. The Phocians thus made plans to defend Thermopylae, and requested assistance from the Spartans and the Athenians, probably around 14 February. The Spartans dispatched Archidamus III with 1,000 hoplites, and the Athenians ordered everyone eligible for military service under the age of 40 to be sent to the Phocians' aid. However, between the Phocians' appeal and the end of the month, all plans were upset by the return of Phalaikos to power in Phocis; the Athenians and the Spartans were subsequently told that they would not be permitted to defend Thermopylae. It is not clear from the ancient sources why Phalaikos was returned to power, nor why he adopted this dramatic change of policy. Cawkwell suggests, based on remarks of Aeschines, that the Phocian army restored Phalaikos because they had not been properly paid, and further that Phalaikos, realizing that the army could not be paid and that the Phocians could no longer hope to win the war, decided to try to negotiate a peace settlement with Philip.\n\nWhen the Athenians received this news, they rapidly changed policy. If Thermopylae could no longer be defended, then Athenian security could no longer be guaranteed. By the end of February, the Athenians had dispatched an embassy, including Philocrates, Demosthenes and Aeschines, to Philip to discuss peace between Athens and Macedon. The embassy had two audiences with Philip, in which each side presented their proposals for the terms of the peace settlement. In the first meeting with Philip, Demosthenes is said to have spit a fire verse. He then got on a little way into the subject and suddenly stopped speaking and stood helpless, until he collapsed completely. During this meeting, Aeschines made the case that Philip should hand the former Athenian colony of Amphipolis back to Athens in return for peace.\n\nThe embassy then returned to Athens to present the proposed terms to the \"Ecclesia\", along with a Macedonian embassy to Athens, empowered by Philip to finalize an agreement. The Athenians debated the peace treaty in April and tried to propose that the peace take the form of a \"common peace\" in which all Greek states could partake (including Phocis). However, Demosthenes (at this point a strong proponent of peace) persuaded the \"Ecclesia\" that Philip would never agree to such a peace, and that Athens's vulnerable position meant that they had little choice but to accept Philip's terms. The treaty was therefore to be bilateral only, between Macedon and Athens (and her allies in the Second Athenian League. On 23 April, the Athenians swore to the terms of the treaty in the presence of the Macedonian ambassadors. Amongst the principal terms were that Athens become Philip's ally, and that they forever renounce their claim to Amphipolis.\n\nAfter agreeing to the peace terms with Macedonian ambassadors in April, the Athenians dispatched a second embassy to Macedon, to extract the peace oaths from Philip; this embassy travelled to Pella at a relaxed pace, knowing that Philip was away on campaign against the Thracian king Kersebleptes. When they arrived, the Athenians (again including Demosthenes and Aeschines) were rather surprised to find embassies from all the principal combatants in the Sacred War were also present, in order to discuss a settlement to the war. Demosthenes became very anxious about these delays, and proposed that an Athenian delegation should sail without delay to any place where they might learn that Philip was to be found, and there receive from him the oath of ratification. Demosthenes later claimed that he was trying to prevent Philip seizing any more Thracian towns, but must have known that there was no chance of saving any of Kersebleptes's kingdom.\n\nDespite his suggestions, the Athenian envoys, including himself and Aeschines, remained in Macedonia for three whole months, until Philip returned from Thrace, having subdued the whole country. When Philip returned from Thrace, he received both the Athenian and other embassies. The Thebans and Thessalians requested that he take the leadership of Greece, and punish Phocis; conversely, the Phocians, supported by the Spartans and the Athenian delegations, pleaded with Philip not to attack Phocis. Philip, however, delayed making any decisions; \"[he] sought by every means not to reveal how he intended to settle things; both sides were privately encouraged to hope that he would do as they wanted, but both were bidden not to prepare for war; a peacefully arranged concordat was at hand\"; he also delayed taking the oaths to the Peace of Philocrates. Military preparations were ongoing in Pella during this period, but Philip told the ambassadors that they were for a campaign against Halus, a small Thessalian city which held out against him. He departed for Halus before making any pronouncements, compelling the Athenian embassy to travel with him; only when they reached Pherae did Philip finally take the oaths, enabling the Athenian ambassadors to return home.\n\nThe Peace of Philocrates is intimately linked with the final end of the Sacred War. It was in the aftermath of finally ratifying the Peace that Philip applied the \"coup de grace\". He had persuaded the Athenians and other Greeks that he and his army was heading for Halus, but it seems certain that he also sent other units straight to Thermopylae. Thus, when he swore oaths to the Athenian assembly in Pherae, his troops were already very close to Thermopylae; by the time the Athenian ambassadors arrived home (9 July), Philip was already in possession of the pass. By delaying the oaths, and making what was effectively a feint against Halus, he prevented the Athenians from seeing their imminent danger, and from having time to try to garrison Thermopylae.\n\nAll of central and southern Greece was now at Philip's mercy, and the Athenians could not now save Phocis even if they abandoned the peace. However, the Athenians were still ignorant of this turn of events when Phocian ambassadors came to Athens to plead for military aid around 9 July. The Athenian council recommended that the peace be rejected, and Thermopylae be occupied in order to help save Phocis; since, as far at the Athenian embassy knew, Philip's troops were still in Pherae, there seemed to be ample time to occupy the pass. By 12 July the news that Philip was \"in the gates\" arrived in Athens; the Athenians then knew that the situation was hopeless, and instead of acting on the previous recommendation of the council, the Assembly instead passed a motion re-affirming the Peace of Philocrates. Demosthenes was one of those who recommended this stance. His argumentation, exposed in the oration \"On the Peace\", was based on the fact that Athens was not ready for a war against all the other members of the League led by Philip. Thereby, he advised his countrymen to abide by the provisions of the peace, but he opposed Aeschines, who believed in an alliance between Macedon and Athens.\n\nAlthough Demosthenes had been a principal architect of the Peace of Philocrates, almost as soon as it was made, he wished to be rid of it. In July 346 BC, he had been a proponent of saving Phocis, but unlike the rest of the Athenian assembly, he had insisted that the Athenians should still go to the Phocians' aid even when it was known that Philip was in control of Thermopylae. Over the next few years, Demosthenes became leader of the \"war-party\" in Athens, and at every opportunity he sought to undermine the peace: \"His method was simple and effective. He kept hammering away at untruths until enough Athenians came to believe them.\" Demosthenes believed that all Philip's successes were due to his bribery and corruption of the Greeks, a view which, although there is little evidence for it, became commonplace until re-examined by modern historians. Conversely, there was also a substantial body of feeling in Athens, led by Aeschines, that the peace should be maintained and developed. The political trials of the time can be used to gauge sentiment in Athens; in 345 BC, Aeschines prosecuted Demosthenes's ally Timarchus, who was duly convicted; conversely, in 343 BC, Demosthenes prosecuted Aeschines, who was acquitted by the barest of margins. Until 343 BC therefore, the majority of the Athenian assembly therefore favoured maintaining the peace, even though they disliked it. Philocrates himself however, seeing that his policy was generally unpopular, had gone into exile before 343 BC.\n\nBetween 344 and 342 BC, Philip tried to strengthen the peace, by converting it into a 'common peace', that all Greek states which chose to could join. In 344 BC, the orator Python was sent by Philip to Athens to defend Philip against the attacks of the war-party, and to propose possible changes to the peace. In response, Demosthenes delivered one of his most effective and famous speeches, the so-called Second Philippic, attacking Philip and all his works. His ally Hegesippus then proposed that the peace should indeed be amended, such that Philip should cede Amphipolis to Athens. The Assembly, stirred by Demosthenes' oratory, passed the motion, leaving the Macedonian embassy speechless—clearly, Philip could not, and would not give up Amphipolis. An Athenian embassy sent to Pella to discuss this proposal was given short shrift by Philip. However, Philip left the offer of a common peace open until 342 BC, when the Athenians again formally rejected the idea.\n\nFrom 343 BC onwards, in order to try to disrupt the peace, Demosthenes and his followers used every expedition and action of Philip to argue that he was breaking the peace. For instance, in 342 BC, when Philip campaigned against the Cassopaeans, they declared that Philip was campaigning against Ambracia, and an Athenian expedition was duly dispatched—but to Acarnania, not Ambracia. Philip however seems to have had no intention of attacking Ambracia, and the expedition thus achieved nothing. Finally, in 341 BC, matters began to come to a head. Athens sent out new settlers to the cleruchs on the Chersonsese under the command of Diopeithes, who proceeded to ravage the territory of Cardia, an ally of Philip. Philip therefore wrote to the Athenians to demand that they desist, but in his speech 'On the Chersonese', Demosthenes persuaded the Athenians that since Athens was effectively at war with Philip anyway, there was no need to do what Philip asked; Diopeithes therefore continued to cause trouble in Thrace. Then, in the Third Philippic of approximately May 341 BC, Demosthenes accused Philip of breaking the peace by intervening in the affairs of Euboea. Callias of Chalcis now emerged as a potential ally of the Athenians; still intent on unifying the cities of Euboea under his leadership, he had been disturbed by the number of Euboean cities, particularly Eretrea and Oreus, adopting a pro-Macedonian stance. In June 341 BC, Athens and Chalcis allied themselves, and proceeded to attack Eritrea and Oreus and install suitable governance in those cities. Callias then proceeded to harass the cities and shipping on the Gulf of Pagasae. Finally, in the Fourth Philippic delivered later in 341 BC, Demosthenes argued that Athens should send an embassy to the Persian king, requesting money for a forthcoming war with Macedon. The embassy was sent, much to Philip's anger, but was sharply rebuffed by the Persians.\n\nIn 341 BC, Demosthenes travelled to Byzantium, which entered into an alliance with Athens. The Athenian statesman struck a similar deal with Abydos, triggering Philip's petulance. The Athenians responded to Philip's grievances, denouncing the terms of the peace treaty, an action entailing the official declaration of war.\n\nThe peace officially collapsed in 338 BC, when Philip passed Thermopylae, attacked the Amphissians, entered Phocis and seized Elateia. Demosthenes convinced the Thebans to enter their alliance against Macedon, when Philip made a final attempt to appease his enemies, proposing a new peace treaty. After his victory at the Battle of Chaeronea, Philip as the absolute ruler of ancient Greece imposed a new peace treaty, whose terms were very favorable for the defeated party but not as favorable as in the Peace of Philocrates.\n\n"}
{"id": "36843555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36843555", "title": "Pearl Vardon", "text": "Pearl Vardon\n\nPearl Joyce Vardon (5 April 1915 in Jersey, Channel Islands – 1972, London) was a British broadcaster of Nazi propaganda during World War II. In 1946 she was convicted of an offence under the Defence Regulations and sentenced to nine months' imprisonment.\n\nPearl Vardon was a school teacher on Jersey when the island fell under the German occupation of the Channel Islands in 1940. As she spoke German, she found herself ordered by the German administration to work locally as an interpreter for a construction company based in Cologne.\n\nShe began a relationship with a Wehrmacht officer, Oberleutnant Siegfried Schwatlo, and when he was posted to Germany in 1944 she decided to go with him.\n\nVardon began employment as an announcer at Radio Luxembourg for the DES, the Deutsche Europasender. She introduced music and programmes such as \"Ladies First\" which criticised the USA and praised Germany's social security system, and \"Matters of Moment\" which gave news from a German perspective. More significantly, in \"For the Forces and their Kin\", she read out letters written by British POWs for their families back home. A German colleague later said of Vardon's attitude that she \"simply hated all things English and loved all things German\".\n\nIn mid 1944 she was evacuated to Berlin and in October 1944 she was working at Apen in Lower Saxony until the Red Army drew close on the advancing Eastern Front.\n\nVardon fled from Apen to Wilhelmshaven, arriving on 30 April 1945. She was arrested there when she enquired how to obtain new identity papers and she was then held by the British Army at Esterwegen Internment Camp, the former Esterwegen concentration camp, where she was interrogated.\n\nVardon was tried at the Old Bailey in February 1946. There she pleaded guilty to the offence of ‘doing an act likely to assist the enemy’ and was given a nine-month prison sentence.\n\nPearl Vardon eventually married Siegfried Schwatlo in 1950 at Abergavenny, Monmouthshire. Her subsequent life is unknown.\n\nThe declassified MI5 files on her were released by the Public Record Office in 2000. They show that British prosecutors were inclined to take a more lenient attitude towards female collaborators such as Vardon and Margaret Joyce, the wife of the traitor William Joyce, than with their male counterparts.\n\nThe MI5 report on Vardon states, ‘Her motive seems to have been the clear one of avoiding as much as possible separation from the German officer with whom she fell in love’ but added, ‘It is just possible that her motives were not so simple as they appear to have been on the surface’. The Security Service file on her is held by The National Archives under reference KV 2/256 and the Home Office file on her is held there under reference HO 45/25811.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "357319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357319", "title": "Ping-pong diplomacy", "text": "Ping-pong diplomacy\n\nPing-pong diplomacy ( \"Pīngpāng wàijiāo\") refers to the exchange of table tennis (ping-pong) players between the United States and People's Republic of China (PRC) in the early 1970s. The event marked a thaw in Sino-American relations that paved the way to a visit to Beijing by President Richard Nixon.\n\nThe United States viewed the People's Republic of China as an aggressor nation and enforced an economic containment policy including an embargo on the PRC, following its entry into the Korean War in 1950. After approximately 20 years of neither diplomatic nor economic relations, both countries finally saw an advantage in opening up to each other: China viewed closer relations with the United States as a beneficial counter to its increasingly tense relationship with the Soviet Union, while the U.S. sought closer relations with China as leverage in its peace negotiations with North Vietnam.\n\n\"[T]he thirty-first World Table Tennis Championships, held in Nagoya, Japan, provided an opportunity for both China and the United States.\"\n\nThe U.S. Table Tennis team was in Nagoya, Japan in 1971 for the 31st World Table Tennis Championships on April 6 when they received an invitation to visit China. From the early years of the People's Republic, sports had played an important role in diplomacy, often incorporating the slogan \"Friendship First, Competition Second\". During the isolationist years, athletes were among the few PRC nationals who were allowed to travel overseas. On April 10, 1971, the team and accompanying journalists became the first American delegation to set foot in the Chinese capital since 1949. The meeting was facilitated by the National Committee on United States – China Relations. Prior to the visit by the American table tennis players, eleven Americans were admitted into the PRC for one week because they all professed affiliation with the Black Panther Party which followed a Maoist political line. This was unusual, given that high-profile American citizens such as Senator Eugene McCarthy expressed interest in visiting China after the 1968 presidential election, but even he could not have a trip arranged for him despite his office.\n\nAccording to \"History of U.S. Table Tennis\" by Tim Boggan, who went to China along with the U.S. Table Tennis Team, three incidents may have triggered their invitation from China. Welshman H. Roy Evans, then President of the International Table Tennis Federation, claimed that he visited China prior to the 31st World Table Tennis Championship and suggested to non-Chinese sports authorities and Premier Zhou Enlai that China should take steps to get in contact with the world through international sport events after the Cultural Revolution. Furthermore, the American player Leah \"Miss Ping\" Neuberger, the 1956 World Mixed Doubles Champion and nine-time U.S. Open Women's Singles Champion, was traveling at the time with the Canadian Table Tennis Team that had been invited by China to visit the country. China diplomatically extended its approval of Leah Neuberger's application for a visa to the entire American team. The third incident, perhaps the most likely trigger, was the unexpected but dramatic meeting between the flamboyant American player Glenn Cowan and the Chinese player Zhuang Zedong, a three-time world champion and winner of many other table tennis events. Zhuang Zedong described the incident in a 2007 talk at the USC U.S.-China Institute.\n\nThe events leading up to the encounter began when Glenn Cowan missed his team bus one afternoon after his practice in Nagoya during the 31st World Table Tennis Championship. Cowan had been practicing for 15 minutes with the Chinese player, Liang Geliang, when a Japanese official came and wanted to close the training area. As Cowan looked in vain for his team bus, a Chinese player waved to him to get on his Chinese team bus. Moments after his casual talking through an interpreter to the Chinese players, Zhuang Zedong came up from his back seat to greet him and presented him with a silk-screen portrait of Huangshan Mountains, a famous product from Hangzhou. Cowan wanted to give something back, but all he could find from his bag was a comb. The American hesitantly replied, \"I can't give you a comb. I wish I could give you something, but I can't.\" This World Table Tennis Championships marked the return of China's participation after a six-year absence. When the Chinese team and Cowan walked off the bus, journalists who were following the Chinese team took photographs. In the political climate of the 1960s, the sight of an athlete of Communist China with an athlete of the United States was sure to garner attention. Glenn Cowan later bought a T-shirt with a red, white and blue peace emblem flag and the words \"Let It Be,\" which he presented to Zhuang Zedong at another chance meeting.\n\nWhen a journalist asked Cowan, \"Mr. Cowan, would you like to visit China?\", he answered, \"Well, I'd like to see any country I haven't seen before--Argentina, Australia, China, ... Any country I haven't seen before.\" \"But what about China in particular? Would you like to go there?\" \"Of course,\" said Glenn Cowan.\n\nDuring an interview in 2002 with the famous TV personality Chen Luyu, Zhuang Zedong told more of the story: \"The trip on the bus took 15 minutes, and I hesitated for 10 minutes. I grew up with the slogan 'Down with the American imperialism!' And during the Cultural Revolution, the string of class struggle was tightened unprecedentedly, and I was asking myself, 'Is it okay to have anything to do with your No. 1 enemy?'\" Zhuang recalled remembering that Chairman Mao Zedong met Edgar Snow on the Rostrum of Tiananmen on the National Day in 1970 and said to Snow that China should now place its hope on American people.\nZhuang looked in his bag and first went through some pins, badges with Mao's head, silk handkerchiefs, and fans. But he felt these were not decent enough to be a good gift. He finally picked the silk portrait of Huangshan Mountains. On the following day, many Japanese newspapers carried photographs of Zhuang Zedong and Glenn Cowan.\n\nWhen the Chinese Department of Foreign Affairs received a report that the U.S. Table Tennis Team hoped to get invited to visit China, the Department declined as usual. Zhou Enlai and Mao Zedong initially agreed with the decision, but when Mao Zedong saw the news in \"Dacankao\", a newspaper accessible only to high-ranking government officials, he decided to invite the U.S. Table Tennis Team. It was reported that Mao Zedong said, \"This Zhuang Zedong not only plays table tennis well, but is good at foreign affairs, and he has a mind for politics.\" On April 10, 1971, nine American players, four officials, and two spouses stepped across a bridge from Hong Kong to the Chinese mainland and then spent their time during April 11–17 playing fun matches, touring the Great Wall and Summer Palace, and watching a ballet.\n\n\nUpon his return to the United States, one of the American players told reporters that the Chinese were very similar to people in the U.S. He said:\nThe people are just like us. They are real, they're genuine, they got feeling. I made friends, I made genuine friends, you see. The country is similar to America, but still very different. It's beautiful. They got the Great Wall, they got plains over there. They got an ancient palace, the parks, there's streams, and they got ghosts that haunt; there's all kinds of, you know, animals. The country changes from the south to the north. The people, they have a, a unity. They really believe in their Maoism.\nTwo months after Richard Nixon's visit, Zhuang Zedong visited the U.S. as the head of a Chinese table-tennis delegation, April 12–30, 1972. Also on the itinerary were Canada, Mexico and Peru. However, China's attempts to reach out to countries through \"ping-pong diplomacy\" were not always successful, such as when the All Indonesia Table Tennis Association (PTMSI) refused China's invitation in October 1971, claiming that accepting the PRC's offer would improve the PRC's reputation. Because neither Soviet athletes nor journalists appeared in China following the appearance of the American players and journalists, one speculation is that the act showed the equal scorn of both countries towards the USSR.\n\nPing-pong diplomacy was successful and resulted in opening the U.S.-PRC relationship, leading the U.S. to lift the embargo against China on June 10, 1971. On February 28, 1972, during President Nixon and Henry Kissinger's visit to Shanghai, the Shanghai Communique was issued between the U.S. and the PRC. The Communique noted that both nations would work towards the normalization of their relations. Furthermore, the U.S. recognized that Taiwan is a part of China and agreed not to interfere in issues between China and Taiwan.\n\nAnother example of Ping Pong Diplomacy occurred during the 1991 World Table Tennis Championships in Chiba, Japan, where a unified Korean team played together for the first time since the Korean War.\n\nThe diplomatic efforts leading to the formation of this unified team were led by then-International Table Tennis Federation President, Ichiro Ogimura.\n\nPrior to the championships, Ogimura visited South Korea 20 times and traveled to North Korea 15 times to plead for a unified team from the Korean peninsula. Ogimura also worked with local Japanese government heads to create joint training camps in the cities of Nagano, Nagaoka and Chiba, and secured agreement from the ITTF for North Korea and South Korea to compete under the unified name of “Korea”.\n\nThe Korean team played under a white flag depicting the Korean peninsula in blue and used the Korean folksong, Arirang, rather than the national anthem of either the North or the South.\n\nThe competition saw the Korean team win one gold medal, one silver and two bronze medals.\n\nThis action has since been repeated. At the 2018 World Team Table Tennis Championships, the two Koreas entered separate teams in the competition but, when they were paired against each other at the quarter-final of the women's event, they negotiated instead to field a joint team for the semi-final.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7202460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7202460", "title": "Piłsudskiite", "text": "Piłsudskiite\n\nA Piłsudskiite () was a supporter of Poland's Marshal Józef Piłsudski, founder of the World War I-era Polish Legions and the first Chief of State of the Second Republic of Poland. The Piłsudskiites had a major influence on Polish politics in the interwar period.\n\nPiłsudski was the dominant political figure in the interwar Second Polish Republic. Most of the successive governments favored Pilsudski, who served as Chief of State from 1918 to 1922 and as Prime Minister in 1926-28 and for several months in 1930. Piłsudski was highly influential and never dropped out of public life, remaining active in Polish politics and exercising considerable influence until his death in May 1935. Piłsudski special position was highlighted by his holding the position of the General Inspector of the Armed Forces, which was created specifically for him and wasn't responsible to the Sejm (parliament) but only to the President.\n\nIn May 1926 Piłsudskiite forces conducted the May Coup, deposing the legally elected government and installing their own. The \"Sanacja\" political camp was formed and Piłsudski's power grew. The \"Sanacja\" began to strengthen its own power and curb the activities of opposition political parties. Many parties in that time became Piłsudskiite to get closer to power and stay safe from potential problems.\n\nWhen Piłsudski died in May 1935, the Piłsudskiite \"Sanacja\" movement lost its leader. The political situation in Poland became radicalized and the pressure of opposition camps on the ruling \"Sanacja\" (especially from the right-wing National Democracy) became stronger. In order to unite the Piłsudskiites and hold on to power, the leading Piłsudskiite politicians formed the Camp of National Unity.\n\nIn order to gain voters from the opposition National Democracy, the Camp of National Unity radicalized its program and even took some issues from the opposition right-wing camp, and became more nationalist. Still it advocated Piłsudski's points of view and followed his political heritage.\n\n"}
{"id": "23490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23490", "title": "Political spectrum", "text": "Political spectrum\n\nA political spectrum is a system of classifying different political positions upon one or more geometric axes that represent independent political dimensions.\n\nMost long-standing spectra include a left wing and right wing, which originally referred to seating arrangements in the French parliament after the Revolution (1789–1799). On a left–right spectrum, communism and socialism are usually regarded internationally as being on the left, whereas conservatism and capitalism are on the right. Liberalism can mean different things in different contexts, sometimes on the left (social liberalism), sometimes within libertarianism (classical liberalism). Those with an intermediate outlook are classified as centrists or moderates. Politics that rejects the conventional left–right spectrum is known as syncretic politics.\n\nPolitical scientists have frequently noted that a single left–right axis is insufficient for describing the existing variation in political beliefs and often include other axes. Though the descriptive words at polar opposites may vary, often in popular biaxial spectra the axes are split between sociocultural issues and economic issues, each scaling from some form of individualism (or government for the freedom of the individual) to some form of communitarianism (or government for the welfare of the community).\n\nThe terms \"right\" and \"left\" refer to political affiliations originating early in the French Revolutionary era of 1789–1799 and referred originally to the seating arrangements in the various legislative bodies of France. As seen from the Speaker's seat at the front of the Assembly, the aristocracy sat on the right (traditionally the seat of honor) and the commoners sat on the left, hence the terms right-wing politics and left-wing politics.\n\nOriginally, the defining point on the ideological spectrum was the \"Ancien Régime\" (\"old order\"). \"The Right\" thus implied support for aristocratic or royal interests and the church, while \"The Left\" implied support for republicanism, secularism and civil liberties. Because the political franchise at the start of the revolution was relatively narrow, the original \"Left\" represented mainly the interests of the bourgeoisie, the rising capitalist class (with notable exceptions such as the proto-communist Gracchus Babeuf). Support for \"laissez-faire\" commerce and free markets were expressed by politicians sitting on the left because these represented policies favorable to capitalists rather than to the aristocracy, but outside parliamentary politics these views are often characterized as being on the Right.\n\nThe reason for this apparent contradiction lies in the fact that those \"to the left\" of the parliamentary left, outside official parliamentary structures (such as the \"sans-culottes\" of the French Revolution), typically represent much of the working class, poor peasantry and the unemployed. Their political interests in the French Revolution lay with opposition to the aristocracy and so they found themselves allied with the early capitalists. However, this did not mean that their economic interests lay with the \"laissez-faire\" policies of those representing them politically.\n\nAs capitalist economies developed, the aristocracy became less relevant and were mostly replaced by capitalist representatives. The size of the working class increased as capitalism expanded and began to find expression partly through trade unionist, socialist, anarchist and communist politics rather than being confined to the capitalist policies expressed by the original \"left\". This evolution has often pulled parliamentary politicians away from laissez-faire economic policies, although this has happened to different degrees in different countries, especially those with a history of issues with more authoritarian-left countries, such as the Soviet Union or China under Mao Zedong.\n\nThus the word \"Left\" in American political parlance may refer to \"liberalism\" and be identified with the Democratic Party, whereas in a country such as France these positions would be regarded as relatively more right-wing, or centrist overall, and \"left\" is more likely to refer to \"socialist\" or \"social-democratic\" positions rather than \"liberal\" ones.\n\nFor almost a century, social scientists have considered the problem of how best to describe political variation.\n\nIn 1950, Leonard W. Ferguson analyzed political values using ten scales measuring attitudes toward: birth control, capital punishment, censorship, communism, evolution, law, patriotism, theism, treatment of criminals and war. Submitting the results to factor analysis, he was able to identify three factors, which he named religionism, humanitarianism and nationalism. He defined religionism as belief in God and negative attitudes toward evolution and birth control; humanitarianism as being related to attitudes opposing war, capital punishment and harsh treatment of criminals; and nationalism as describing variation in opinions on censorship, law, patriotism and communism.\n\nThis system was derived empirically, as rather than devising a political model on purely theoretical grounds and testing it, Ferguson's research was exploratory. As a result of this method, care must be taken in the interpretation of Ferguson's three factors, as factor analysis will output an abstract factor whether an objectively real factor exists or not. Although replication of the nationalism factor was inconsistent, the finding of religionism and humanitarianism had a number of replications by Ferguson and others.\n\nShortly afterward, Hans Eysenck began researching political attitudes in Great Britain. He believed that there was something essentially similar about the National Socialists (Nazis) on the one hand and the communists on the other, despite their opposite positions on the left–right axis. As Hans Eysenck described in his 1956 book \"Sense and Nonsense in Psychology\", Eysenck compiled a list of political statements found in newspapers and political tracts and asked subjects to rate their agreement or disagreement with each. Submitting this value questionnaire to the same process of factor analysis used by Ferguson, Eysenck drew out two factors, which he named \"Radicalism\" (R-factor) and \"Tender-Mindedess\" (T-factor).\n\nSuch analysis produces a factor whether or not it corresponds to a real-world phenomenon and so caution must be exercised in its interpretation. While Eysenck's R-factor is easily identified as the classical \"left–right\" dimension, the T-factor (representing a factor drawn at right angles to the R-factor) is less intuitive, as high-scorers favored pacifism, racial equality, religious education and restrictions on abortion, while low-scorers had attitudes more friendly to militarism, harsh punishment, easier divorce laws and companionate marriage.\n\nDespite the difference in methodology, location and theory, the results attained by Eysenck and Ferguson matched. Simply rotating Eysenck's two factors 45 degrees renders the same factors of religionism and humanitarianism identified by Ferguson in America.\n\nEysenck's dimensions of R and T were found by factor analyses of values in Germany and Sweden, France and Japan.\n\nOne interesting result Eysenck noted in his 1956 work was that in the United States and Great Britain, most of the political variance was subsumed by the left/right axis, while in France the T-axis was larger and in the Middle East the only dimension to be found was the T-axis: \"Among mid-Eastern Arabs it has been found that while the tough-minded/tender-minded dimension is still clearly expressed in the relationships observed between different attitudes, there is nothing that corresponds to the radical-conservative continuum\".\n\nEysenck's political views related to his research: Eysenck was an outspoken opponent of what he perceived as the authoritarian abuses of the left and right and accordingly he believed that with this T axis he had found the link between nazism and communism. According to Eysenck, members of both ideologies were tough-minded. Central to Eysenck's thesis was the claim that tender-minded ideologies were democratic and friendly to human freedoms, while tough-minded ideologies were aggressive and authoritarian, a claim that is open to political criticism. In this context, Eysenck carried out studies on nazism and communist groups, claiming to find members of both groups to be more \"dominant\" and more \"aggressive\" than control groups.\n\nEysenck left Nazi Germany to live in Britain and was not shy in attacking Stalinism, noting the anti-Semitic prejudices of the Russian government, the luxurious lifestyles of the Soviet Union leadership and the Orwellian \"doublethink\" of East Germany's naming itself the German Democratic Republic despite being \"one of the most undemocratic regimes in the world today\". While Eysenck was an opponent of Nazism, his relationship with fascist organizations was more complex. Eysenck himself lent theoretical support to the English National Party (which also opposed \"Hitlerite\" Nazism) and was interviewed in the first issue of their journal \"The Beacon\" in relation to his controversial views on relative intelligence between different races. At one point during the interview, Eysenck was asked whether or not he was of Jewish origin before the interviewer proceeded. His political allegiances were called into question by other researchers, notably Steven Rose, who alleged that his scientific research was used for political purposes.\n\nEysenck's conception of tough-mindedness has been criticized for a number of reasons.\n\nDissatisfied with Hans J. Eysenck's work, Milton Rokeach developed his own two-axis model of political values in 1973, basing this on the ideas of freedom and equality, which he described in his book, \"The Nature of Human Values\".\n\nMilton Rokeach claimed that the defining difference between the left and right was that the left stressed the importance of equality more than the right. Despite his criticisms of Eysenck's tough-tender axis, Rokeach also postulated a basic similarity between communism and nazism, claiming that these groups would not value freedom as greatly as more conventional social democratics, democratic socialists and capitalists would and he wrote that \"the two value model presented here most resembles Eysenck's hypothesis\".\n\nTo test this model, Milton Rokeach and his colleagues used content analysis on works exemplifying nazism (written by Adolf Hitler), communism (written by Vladimir Lenin), capitalism (by Barry Goldwater) and socialism (written by various socialist authors). This method has been criticized for its reliance on the experimenter's familiarity with the content under analysis and its dependence on the researcher's particular political outlooks.\n\nMultiple raters made frequency counts of sentences containing synonyms for a number of values identified by Rokeach—including freedom and equality—and Rokeach analyzed these results by comparing the relative frequency rankings of all the values for each of the four texts:\n\nLater studies using samples of American ideologues and American presidential inaugural addresses attempted to apply this model.\n\nIn further research, Hans J. Eysenck refined his methodology to include more questions on economic issues. Doing this, he revealed a split in the left–right axis between social policy and economic policy, with a previously undiscovered dimension of socialism-capitalism (S-factor).\n\nWhile factorially distinct from Eysenck's previous R factor, the S-factor did positively correlate with the R-factor, indicating that a basic left–right or right–left tendency underlies both social values and economic values, although S tapped more into items discussing economic inequality and big business, while R relates more to the treatment of criminals and to sexual issues and military issues.\n\nMost research and political theory since this time has replicated the factors shown above.\n\nAnother replication came from Ronald Inglehart's research into national opinions based on the World Values Survey, although Inglehart's research described the values of countries rather than individuals or groups of individuals within nations. Inglehart's two-factor solution took the form of Ferguson's original religionism and humanitarianism dimensions; Inglehart labelled them \"secularism–traditionalism\", which covered issues of tradition and religion, like patriotism, abortion, euthanasia and the importance of obeying the law and authority figures, and \"survivalism – self expression\", which measured issues like everyday conduct and dress, acceptance of diversity (including foreigners) and innovation and attitudes towards people with specific controversial lifestyles such as homosexuality and vegetarianism, as well as willingness to engage in political activism. See for Inglehart's national chart.\n\nThe Nolan chart was created by libertarian David Nolan. This chart shows what he considers as \"economic freedom\" (issues like taxation, free trade and free enterprise) on the horizontal axis and what he considers as \"personal freedom\" (issues like drug legalization, abortion and the draft) on the vertical axis. This puts left-wingers in the left quadrant, libertarians in the top, right-wingers in the right and what Nolan originally named populists in the bottom.\n\nThe political compass has two axes. One represents economic issues as right-vs-left. The other represents issues of freedom, or social issues, as authoritarian-vs-libertarian. One can determine their position on the political compass through an online quiz by the same name.\n\nIn a 2003 \"Psychological Bulletin\" paper, Jeff Greenberg and Eva Jonas posit a model comprising the standard left–right axis and an axis representing ideological rigidity. For Greenberg and Jonas, ideological rigidity has \"much in common with the related concepts of dogmatism and authoritarianism\" and is characterized by \"believing in strong leaders and submission, preferring one’s own in-group, ethnocentrism and nationalism, aggression against dissidents, and control with the help of police and military\". Greenberg and Jonas posit that high ideological rigidity can be motivated by \"particularly strong needs to reduce fear and uncertainty\" and is a primary shared characteristic of \"people who subscribe to any extreme government or ideology, whether it is right-wing or left-wing\".\n\nThis very distinct two-axis model was created by Jerry Pournelle in 1963 for his doctoral dissertation in political science. The Pournelle chart has liberty on one axis, with those on the left seeking freedom from control or protections for social deviance and those on the right emphasizing state authority or protections for norm enforcement (farthest right being state worship, farthest left being the idea of a state as the \"ultimate evil\"). The other axis is rationalism, defined here as the belief in planned social progress, with those higher up believing that there are problems with society that can be rationally solved and those lower down skeptical of such approaches.\n\nIn its 4 January 2003 issue, \"The Economist\" discussed a chart, proposed by Dr. Ronald Inglehart and supported by the World Values Survey (associated with the University of Michigan), to plot cultural ideology onto two dimensions. On the y-axis it covered issues of tradition and religion, like patriotism, abortion, euthanasia and the importance of obeying the law and authority figures. At the bottom of the chart is the traditionalist position on issues like these (with loyalty to country and family and respect for life considered important), while at the top is the secular position. The x-axis deals with self-expression, issues like everyday conduct and dress, acceptance of diversity (including foreigners) and innovation, and attitudes towards people with specific controversial lifestyles such as vegetarianism, as well as willingness to engage in political activism. At the right of the chart is the open self-expressionist position, while at the left is its opposite position, which Dr. Inglehart calls survivalist. This chart not only has the power to map the values of individuals, but also to compare the values of people in different countries. Placed on this chart, European Union countries in continental Europe come out on the top right, Anglophone countries on the middle right, Latin American countries on the bottom right, African, Middle Eastern and South Asian countries on the bottom left and ex-Communist countries on the top left.\n\nIn 2006, Brian Patrick Mitchell identified four main political traditions in Anglo-American history based on their regard for \"kratos\" (defined as the use of force) and \"archē\" or \"archy\" (defined as the recognition of rank). Mitchell grounded the distinction of archy and kratos in the West's historical experience of church and state, crediting the collapse of the Christian consensus on church and state with the appearance of four main divergent traditions in Western political thought:\n\nMitchell charts these traditions graphically using a vertical axis as a scale of kratos/akrateia and a horizontal axis as a scale of archy/anarchy. He places democratic progressivism in the lower left, plutocratic nationalism in the lower right, republican constitutionalism in the upper right, and libertarian individualism in the upper left. The political left is therefore distinguished by its rejection of archy, while the political right is distinguished by its acceptance of archy. For Mitchell, anarchy is not the absence of government but the rejection of rank. Thus there can be both anti-government anarchists (Mitchell’s \"libertarian individualists\") and pro-government anarchists (Mitchell's \"democratic progressives\", who favor the use of government force against social hierarchies such as patriarchy). Mitchell also distinguishes between left-wing anarchists and right-wing anarchists, whom Mitchell renames \"akratists\" for their opposition to the government’s use of force.\n\nFrom the four main political traditions, Mitchell identifies eight distinct political perspectives diverging from a populist center. Four of these perspectives (Progressive, Individualist, Paleoconservative, and Neoconservative) fit squarely within the four traditions; four others (Paleolibertarian, Theoconservative, Communitarian, and Radical) fit between the traditions, being defined by their singular focus on rank or force. Anthony Gregory of the Independent Institute credits Mitchell with \"the best explanation of the political spectrum\", saying he \"makes sense of all the major mysteries\".\n\nThe spatial model of voting plots voters and candidates in a multi-dimensional space where each dimension represents a single political issue (or sub-component of an issue). Voters are then modeled as voting for the nearest candidates in this ideological space. The dimensions of this model can also be assigned to non-political properties of the candidates, such as perceived corruption, health, etc.\n\nMost of the other spectra in this article can then be considered projections of this multi-dimensional space onto a smaller number of dimensions. For example, a study of German voters found that at least four dimensions were required to adequately represent all political parties. \n\nOne alternative spectrum offered by the conservative \"American Federalist Journal\" accounts for only the \"degree of government control\" without consideration for any other social or political variable and thus places \"fascism\" (totalitarianism) at one extreme and \"anarchism\" (no government at all) at the other extreme.\n\nOther proposed axes include:\n\nAs shown by Russian political scientist Stepan S. Sulakshin, political spectra can be used as a forecasting tool. Sulakshin offered mathematical evidence that stable development (positive dynamics of the vast number of statistic indices) depends on the width of the political spectrum: if it is too narrow or too wide, stagnation or political disasters will result. Sulakshin also showed that in the short run the political spectrum determines the statistic indices dynamic and not vice versa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "763947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763947", "title": "Polling place", "text": "Polling place\n\nA polling place is where voters cast their ballots in elections. \n\nThe phrase polling station is also used in American English and in British English, although polling place is the building and polling station is the specific room (or part of a room) where voters cast their votes. A polling place can contain one or more polling stations.\n\nSince elections generally take place over a one- or two-day span on a periodic basis, often annual or longer, polling places are usually located in facilities used for other purposes, such as schools, churches, sports halls, local government offices, or even private homes, and may each serve a similar number of people. The area may be known as a ward, precinct, polling district or constituency. The polling place is staffed by officials (who may be called election judges, returning officers or other titles) who monitor the voting procedures and assist voters with the election process. Scrutineers (or poll-watchers) are independent or partisan observers who attend the poll to ensure the impartiality of the process.\n\nThe facility will be open between specified hours depending on the type of election, and political activity by or on behalf of those standing in the ballot is usually prohibited within the venue and immediately surrounding area.\n\nInside the polling place will be an area (usually a voting booth) where the voter may select the candidate or party of their choice in secret. If a ballot paper is used this will be placed into a ballot box in front of witnesses who cannot see for whom the vote has been cast. Voting machines may be employed instead.\n\nSome polling places are temporary structures. A portable cabin may be specially sited for an election and removed afterwards.\n\nThere are five types of voting technologies that are currently being used in the United States polling locations. These comprise hand-counted paper ballots, mechanical lever machines, punch cards, optically readable paper ballots, and electronic voting machines. One of the reasons for a tendency toward witnessed final posting or transacting physical systems yet retaining the secret ballot is to reduce electoral fraud.\n\nThe word \"poll\" means \"scalp\" or \"head\". When votes were taken by gathering people together and counting heads, the place where this was done (sometimes an open field) was called the \"polls\".\n\nPolling places used to gather and count ballots in elections have changed significantly over the past 250 years. Advances in technology have played a major role in changing the polling places because as the type of ballot changed, the venue in which the ballots are counted also changed. One of the main reasons for advancement was to be able to access the results quicker. First was the word ballot, then came the different types of paper ballots, and today we have the electronic balloting systems.\n\nBefore there were paper ballots, people would simply call out their selection at the polling place. This polling place was typically the county courthouse or town hall. Sometimes these polls were taken outside of the venue in a more informal fashion. When the voters came to the town hall to announce their choice, they would get in line to see the judge and swear in. Once the voter put his or her hand on the Bible and swore to the judge, they would be allowed to cast one ballot per election. The judge acted as the only form of voter identification and it was up to them to be able to identify individuals that had already voted and exclude them from voting again.\n\nThe use of paper and electronic ballots have been the most widely used form of capturing votes in recent history. When paper or electronic ballots are used, the polling place must be professionally organized in order to ensure that the ballots are not tampered with and are accounted for accurately. These polls are held inside a building that has been set up in stations to assist voters. When the voter arrives he or she will be asked to show a form of voter identification(ID not required in the US). Once the voter has been properly identified he or she goes to a voting booth where the votes are captured. Once all the votes are captured the voter then verifies his or her voting ticket and then submits the ballot to the poll worker, ballot box, or on the computerized ballot.\n\nThe building where the polling location is sited can have a significant effect on the results of the poll. Research shows that polling location may influence how a voter casts his or her ballot. This subtle unknown factor can be significant and can sway a close election. Individuals may be influenced to behave in a certain way based on environmental cues, i.e. an object or place that can influence how he or she behaves, for example the condition of the building, the name of the building, the ordinary use of the building, or the building decor. Researchers have spent much time considering what makes people vote the way they do; they have found that the smallest of changes can have large effects.\n\nWaiting times at polling places have also been a problem in the USA. This has become such a controversial topic that even President Obama in his State of the Union address on February 12, 2013 mentioned the need to decrease waiting times. He went on to say that it is the duty of Americans to make sure that everyone has not only the right to vote, but the opportunity to vote, without having to wait several hours in line.\n\nThe building used as the polling place has a significant effect on how an individual votes. For example, voting inside a school building, a citizen might be more likely to vote for those in favor of school systems and education. This is especially true if the school building you are voting in is in need of general improvement and/or renovation. This environmental cue may give a voter firsthand knowledge of what needs there may be in a particular setting. In addition, voting inside a church, a citizen might be less likely to vote in favor of stem cell research. These cues give a person a sense of satisfaction for voting one way or another in the moment, regardless if that was the way they intended to vote in the first place.\n\nThe cost of voting influences whether or not a person will vote. Research shows that the more expensive voting gets, the less likely a person is to vote. Distance to the polling location is one of the main reasons cost can become an issue for voters. Minor changes in distance from voters' homes to polling place can change the turnout of voters, which may change the outcome of a close election. Distance to the polling place is an issue if not every voter has access to vehicle transportation. According to the research on distance to the polling location by Haspel and Knotts, \"To illustrate the range of the effect of distance, we plot our predicted probabilities at the lower and upper bounds of our continuous vehicle available variable. When no one owns a car (vehicle available = 0), the likelihood of voting drops from .664 at a distance of .01 miles to .418 at the median distance of .69 miles. When automobiles are universally available (vehicle available = 1), voters are much less sensitive to changes in distance: the likelihood of voting drops from .444 to .392 over the same distance range\". Voters ultimately value the convenience of polling locations. If a poll is accessible to the citizen they will make an effort, if the citizen has to travel a long distance then voter turnout decreases dramatically\".\n\nIf a voter changes precincts due to redistricting then the chances of their continuing to vote in future elections decreases. The confusion that redistricting causes will deter the voter from looking into the new precinct where he or she should now vote. In addition, the informational costs associated with alerting voters of their new polling location will also affect the voter turnout because it is highly unlikely that funds will be available to allocate to ensure that every voter knows where to vote. Redistricting can be beneficial in order to provide a convenient location, but careful consideration should be taken before such a decision is made.\n\nIf voters are allowed to vote at any of a number of different locations in the county or district etc., this will increase voter turnout. Sometimes a voter's most convenient voting location is near his or her workplace, not necessarily the closest to their residence. Having a more open policy of allowing multiple possible locations for a person to vote would encourage those individuals who cannot feasibly commute back and forth from work to vote. Having a large conspicuous polling location will ensure that the voters know where they are supposed to vote. This will cut down on unnecessary signage and eliminate clutter and confusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "70869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70869", "title": "Radical environmentalism", "text": "Radical environmentalism\n\nRadical environmentalism is a grassroots branch of the larger environmental movement that emerged from an ecocentrism-based frustration with the co-option of mainstream environmentalism. It is the extremist ideology behind the radical environmental movement.\n\nThe radical environmental movement aspires to what scholar Christopher Manes calls \"a new kind of environmental activism: iconoclastic, uncompromising, discontented with traditional conservation policy, at times illegal...\" Radical environmentalism presupposes a need to reconsider Western ideas of religion and philosophy (including capitalism, patriarchy and globalization) sometimes through \"resacralising\" and reconnecting with nature.\n\nThe movement is typified by leaderless resistance organizations such as Earth First!, which subscribe to the idea of taking direct action in defense of Mother Earth including civil disobedience, ecotage and monkeywrenching. Movements such as the Earth Liberation Front (ELF) and Earth Liberation Army (ELA) also take this form of action, although focusing on economic sabotage, rather than civil disobedience. Radical environmentalists include earth liberationists as well as anarcho-primitivists, animal liberationists, bioregionalists, green anarchists, deep ecologists, ecopsychologists, ecofeminists, neo-Pagans, Wiccans, Third Positionists, anti-globalisation and anti-capitalist protesters. However, this does not mean that everyone subscribing to those beliefs and values should be considered a radical environmentalist.\n\nWhile many people believe that the first significant radical environmentalist group was Greenpeace, which made use of direct action beginning in the 1970s to confront whaling ships and nuclear weapons testers, others within the movement, argues as Earth Liberation Front (ELF) prisoner Jeff \"Free\" Luers, suggests that the movement was established centuries ago. He often writes that the concept of \"eco-defence\" was born shortly after the existence of the human race, claiming it is only recently that within the modern development of human society, and individuals losing touch with the earth and its wild roots, that more radical tactics and political theories have emerged.\n\nThe alternative tactic of using explosive and incendiary devices was then established in 1976, by John Hanna and others as the Environmental Life Force (ELF), also now known as the \"original ELF\". The group conducted a campaign of armed actions in northern California and Oregon, later disbanding in 1978 following Hanna's arrest for placing incendiary devices on seven crop-dusters at the Salinas, California airport on May Day, 1977. It wasn't until over a decade and a half later that this form of guerrilla warfare resurfaced as the Earth Liberation Front using the same ELF acronym.\n\nIn 1980 Earth First! was founded by Dave Foreman and others to confront environmental destruction, primarily of the American West. Inspired by the Edward Abbey novel \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\", Earth First! made use of such techniques as treesitting and treespiking to stop logging companies, as well as other activities targeted towards mining, road construction, suburban development and energy companies.\n\nThe organization were committed to nonviolent ecotage techniques from the group's inception, with those that split from the movement in the 1990s including the Earth Liberation Front (ELF) in 1992, naming themselves after the Animal Liberation Front (ALF) who formed in the 1970s. Three years later in Canada, inspired by the ELF in Europe the first \"Earth Liberation\" direct action occurred, but this time as the Earth Liberation Army (ELA), a similar movement who use ecotage and monkeywrenching as a tool, although no guidelines had been published.\n\nThe ELF gained national attention for a series of actions which earned them the label of eco-terrorists, including the burning of a ski resort in Vail, Colorado in 1998, and the burning of an SUV dealership in Oregon in 1999. In the same year the ELA had made headlines by setting fire to the Vail Resorts in Washington, D.C., causing $12 million in damages. The defendants in the case were later charged in the FBI's \"Operation Backfire\", along with other arsons and cases, which were later named by environmentalists as the Green Scare; alluding to the Red Scare, periods of fear over communist infiltration of U.S.\n\nFollowing the September 11, 2001 attacks several laws were passed increasing the penalty for ecoterrorism, and hearings were held in Congress discussing the activity of groups such as the ELF. To date no one has been killed as a result of an ELF or ALF action since both groups forbid harming human or non-human life. It was then announced in 2003 that \"eco-terrorist\" attacks, known as \"ecotage\", had increased from the ELF, ELA and the \"Environmental Rangers\", another name used by activists when engaging in similar activity.\n\nIn 2005 the FBI announced that the ELF, is America's greatest domestic terrorist threat, responsible for over 1,200 \"criminal incidents\" amounting to tens of millions of dollars in damage to property, with the United States Department of Homeland Security confirming this regarding the ALF and ELF.\n\nPlane Stupid then was launched in 2005, in an attempt to combat the growing airport expansions in the UK using direct action with a year later the first Camp for Climate Action being held with 600 people attending a protest called \"Reclaim Power\" converging on Drax Power Station in North Yorkshire and attempted to shut it down. There were thirty-eight arrests, with four breaching the fence and the railway line being blocked.\n\nRadical environmentalism has been called a new religious movement by Bron Taylor (1998). Taylor contends that \"Radical environmentalism is best understood as a new religious movement that views environmental degradation as an assault on a sacred, natural world.\"\n\nSeveral philosophies have arisen from ideas in radical environmentalism that include deep ecology, ecofeminism, social ecology and bioregionalism.\n\nDeep Ecology is attributed to Arne Naess and is defined as \"a normative, ecophilosophical movement that is inspired and fortified in part by our experience as humans in nature and in part by ecological knowledge.\"\n\nEcofeminism originated in the 1970s and draws a parallel between the oppression of women in patriarchal societies and the oppression of the environment.\n\nSocial Ecology is an idea attributed to Murray Bookchin, who argued that in order to save the environment, human society needed to copy the structure of nature and decentralize both socially and economically.\n\nBioregionalism is a philosophy that focuses on the practical application of Social Ecology, and theorizes on \"building and living in human social communities that are compatible with ecological systems\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560045", "title": "Raphael Kaulla", "text": "Raphael Kaulla\n\nJacob Raphael Kaulla (died 1 May 1810, Hechingen) was a German court banker; born at Buchau on the Feder-See about the middle of the eighteenth century.\n\nBy a decree dated 27 June 1806, King Frederick of Württemberg, \"in view of the various services that the Kaulla family has rendered to the country in critical periods\", conferred upon Jacob and a number of his immediate relatives and their descendants of both sexes all rights of citizenship in Württemberg. Jacob Kaulla and his sister Madame Kaulla were distinguished as philanthropists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2534560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2534560", "title": "Samir Amin", "text": "Samir Amin\n\nSamir Amin () (3 September 1931 – 12 August 2018) was an Egyptian-French Marxian economist and political scientist. He is noted for his introduction of the term Eurocentrism in 1988.\n\nAmin was born in Cairo, the son of an Egyptian father and a French mother (both medical doctors). He spent his childhood and youth in Port Said; there he attended a French high school, leaving in 1947 with a Baccalauréat. From 1947 to 1957 he studied in Paris, gaining a diploma in political science (1952) before graduating in statistics (1956) and economics (1957). In his autobiography \"Itinéraire intellectuel\" (1990) he wrote that in order to spend a substantial amount of time in \"militant action\" he could devote only a minimum of time to preparing for his university exams.\n\nAfter arriving in Paris, Amin joined the French Communist Party (PCF), but he later distanced himself from Soviet Marxism and associated himself for some time with Maoist circles. With other students he published a magazine entitled \"Étudiants Anticolonialistes\". In 1957 he presented his thesis, supervised by François Perroux among others, originally titled \"The origins of underdevelopment – capitalist accumulation on a world scale\" but retitled \"The structural effects of the international integration of precapitalist economies. A theoretical study of the mechanism which creates so-called underdeveloped economies\".\n\nAfter finishing his thesis, Amin went back to Cairo, where he worked from 1957 to 1960 as a research officer for the government's \"Institution for Economic Management\". Subsequently, Amin left Cairo, to become an adviser to the Ministry of Planning in Bamako (Mali) from 1960 to 1963. In 1963 he was offered a fellowship at the \"Institut Africain de Développement Économique et de Planification\" (IDEP). Until 1970 he worked there as well as being a professor at the university of Poitiers, Dakar and Paris (of Paris VIII, Vincennes). In 1970 he became director of the IDEP, which he managed until 1980. In 1980 Amin left the IDEP and became a director of the Third World Forum in Dakar.\n\nSamir Amin is a convinced adherent of multipolarity: “Yes, I do want to see the construction of a multipolar world, and that obviously means the defeat of Washington’s hegemonic project for military control of the planet.” In 2006, he designed the overthrow of what he described as the hegemonic world order:\n\nThe determination, however, is lacking:\n\nHence, Europe must end its “Atlanticist option” and take the course of the “Eurasian rapprochement” with Russia, China, India and the rest of Asia and Africa. This “Eurasian rapprochement” is necessary for the head-on collision with the United States.\n\nAccording to Samir Amin, Islam leads its struggle on the terrain of culture, wherein \"culture\" is intended as \"belongingness to one religion\".\nIslamist militants are not actually interested in the discussion of dogmas which form religion, but on the contrary are concerned about the ritual assertion of membership in the community. Such a world view is therefore not only distressing, as it conceals an immense poverty of thought, but it also justifies Imperialism's strategy of substituting a \"conflict of cultures\" for a conflict between the liberal, imperialist centres and the backward, dominated peripheries.\n\nThis importance attributed to culture allows political Islam to obscure from every sphere of life the realistic social dichotomy between the working classes and the global capitalist system which oppresses and exploits them.\n\nThe militants of political Islam are only present in areas of conflict in order to furnish people with education and health care, through schools and health clinics. However, these are nothing more than works of charity and means of indoctrination, insofar as they are not means of support for the working class struggle against the system which is responsible for its misery.\n\nBesides, beyond being reactionary on definite matters (see the status of women in Islam) and responsible for fanatical excesses against non-Muslim citizen (such as the Copts in Egypt), political Islam even defends the sacred character of property and legimitises inequality and all the prerequisites of capitalist reproduction.\n\nOne example is the Muslim Brotherhood's support in the Egyptian parliament for conservative and reactionary laws which empowers the rights of property owners, to the detriment of the small peasantry.\n\nPolitical Islam has also always found consent in the bourgeoisie of Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, as the latter abandoned an anti-imperialist perspective and substituted it for an anti-western stance, which only creates an acceptable impasse of cultures and therefore doesn't represent any obstacle to the developing imperialist control over the world system.\n\nHence, political Islam aligns itself in general with capitalism and imperialism, without providing the working classes with an effective and non-reactionary method of struggle against their exploitation.\n\nIt is important to note, however, that Amin is careful to distinguish his analysis of political Islam from islamophobia, thus remaining sensitive to the anti-Muslim attitudes that currently affect Western Society.\n\nSamir Amin is one of the advocates of Marxian dependency theory.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "592233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592233", "title": "Semi-democracy", "text": "Semi-democracy\n\nThe term semi-democracy is used to refer to a state that shares both democratic and authoritarian features.\n\nThe term \"semi-democratic\" is reserved for stable regimes that combine democratic and authoritarian elements. \n\n"}
{"id": "1805271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805271", "title": "Social construction of technology", "text": "Social construction of technology\n\nSocial construction of technology (also referred to as SCOT) is a theory within the field of Science and Technology Studies. Advocates of SCOT—that is, social constructivists—argue that technology does not determine human action, but that rather, human action shapes technology. They also argue that the ways a technology is used cannot be understood without understanding how that technology is embedded in its social context. SCOT is a response to technological determinism and is sometimes known as technological constructivism.\n\nSCOT draws on work done in the constructivist school of the sociology of scientific knowledge, and its subtopics include actor-network theory (a branch of the sociology of science and technology) and historical analysis of sociotechnical systems, such as the work of historian Thomas P. Hughes. Its empirical methods are an adaptation of the Empirical Programme of Relativism (EPOR), which outlines a method of analysis to demonstrate the ways in which scientific findings are socially constructed (see strong program). Leading adherents of SCOT include Wiebe Bijker and Trevor Pinch.\n\nSCOT holds that those who seek to understand the reasons for acceptance or rejection of a technology should look to the social world. It is not enough, according to SCOT, to explain a technology's success by saying that it is \"the best\"—researchers must look at how the criteria of being \"the best\" is defined and what groups and stakeholders participate in defining it. In particular, they must ask who defines the technical criteria success is measured by, why technical criteria are defined this way, and who is included or excluded. Pinch and Bijker argue that technological determinism is a myth that results when one looks backwards and believes that the path taken to the present was the only possible path.\n\nSCOT is not only a theory, but also a methodology: it formalizes the steps and principles to follow when one wants to analyze the causes of technological failures or successes.\n\nAt the point of its conception, the SCOT approach was partly motivated by the ideas of the strong programme in the sociology of science (Bloor 1973). In their seminal article, Pinch and Bijker refer to the \"Principle of Symmetry\" as the most influential tenet of the Sociology of Science, which should be applied in historical and sociological investigations of technology as well. It is strongly connected to Bloor's theory of social causation.\n\nThe \"Principle of Symmetry\" holds that in explaining the origins of scientific beliefs, that is, assessing the success and failure of models, theories, or experiments, the historian/sociologist should deploy the same \"kind\" of explanation in the cases of success as in cases of failure. When investigating beliefs, researchers should be impartial to the (\"a posteriori\" attributed) truth or falsehood of those beliefs, and the explanations should be unbiased. The strong programme adopts a position of relativism or neutralism regarding the arguments that social actors put forward for the acceptance/rejection of any technology. All arguments (social, cultural, political, economic, as well as technical) are to be treated equally.\n\nThe symmetry principle addresses the problem that the historian is tempted to explain the success of successful theories by referring to their \"objective truth\", or inherent \"technical superiority\", whereas s/he is more likely to put forward sociological explanations (citing political influence or economic reasons) only in the case of failures. For example, having experienced the obvious success of the chain-driven bicycle for decades, it is tempting to attribute its success to its \"advanced technology\" compared to the \"primitiveness\" of the Penny Farthing, but if we look closely and symmetrically at their history (as Pinch and Bijker do), we can see that at the beginning bicycles were valued according to quite different standards than nowadays. The early adopters (predominantly young, well-to-do gentlemen) valued the speed, the thrill, and the spectacularity of the Penny Farthing – in contrast to the security and stability of the chain-driven Safety Bicycle. Many other social factors (e.g., the contemporary state of urbanism and transport, women's clothing habits and feminism) have influenced and changed the relative valuations of bicycle models.\n\nA weak reading of the \"Principle of Symmetry\" points out that there often are many competing theories or technologies, which all have the potential to provide slightly different solutions to similar problems. In these cases, sociological factors tip the balance between them: that's why we should pay equal attention to them.\n\nA strong, social constructivist reading would add that even the emergence of the questions or problems to be solved are governed by social determinations, so the Principle of Symmetry is applicable even to the apparently purely technical issues.\n\nThe following concepts and 'stages' of SCOT are adapted from the Empirical Programme of Relativism (EPOR).\n\n\"Interpretative flexibility\" means that each technological artifact has different meanings and interpretations for various groups. Bijker and Pinch show that the air tire of the bicycle meant a more convenient mode of transportation for some people, whereas it meant technical nuisances, traction problems and ugly aesthetics to others. In racing air tires lent to greater speed.\n\nThese alternative interpretations generate different \"problems\" to be solved. How should aesthetics, convenience, and speed be prioritized? What is the \"best\" tradeoff between traction and speed?\n\nThe most basic relevant groups are the \"users\" and the \"producers\" of the technological artifact, but most often many subgroups can be delineated – users with different socioeconomic status, competing producers, etc. Sometimes there are relevant groups who are neither users, nor producers of the technology, for example, journalists, politicians, and civil organizations. Trevor Pinch has argued that the salespeople of technology should also be included in the study of technology. The groups can be distinguished based on their shared or diverging interpretations of the technology in question.\n\nJust as technologies have different meanings in different social groups, there are always multiple ways of constructing technologies. A particular design is only a single point in the large field of technical possibilities, reflecting the interpretations of certain relevant groups.\n\nThe different interpretations often give rise to conflicts between criteria that are hard to resolve technologically (e.g., in the case of the bicycle, one such problem was how a woman could ride the bicycle in a skirt while still adhering to standards of decency), or conflicts between the relevant groups (the \"Anti-cyclists\" lobbied for the banning of the bicycles). Different groups in different societies construct different problems, leading to different designs.\n\nThe first stage of the SCOT research methodology is to reconstruct the alternative interpretations of the technology, analyze the problems and conflicts these interpretations give rise to, and connect them to the design features of the technological artifacts. The relations between groups, problems, and designs can be visualized in diagrams.\n\nOver time, as technologies are developed, the interpretative and design flexibility collapse through closure mechanisms. Two examples of closure mechanisms:\n\n\nClosure is not permanent. New social groups may form and reintroduce interpretative flexibility, causing a new round of debate or conflict about a technology. (For instance, in the 1890s automobiles were seen as the \"green\" alternative, a cleaner environmentally-friendly technology, to horse-powered vehicles; by the 1960s, new social groups had introduced new interpretations about the environmental effects of the automobile, eliciting the opposite conclusion.)\n\nThe second stage of the SCOT methodology is to show how closure is achieved.\n\nThis is the third stage of the SCOT methodology, but the seminal article of Pinch and Bijker does not proceed to this stage. Many other historians and sociologists of technology nevertheless do. For example, Paul N. Edwards shows in his book \"The Closed World: Computers and the Politics of Discourse in Cold War America\" the strong relations between the political discourse of the Cold War and the computer designs of this era.\n\nIn 1993, Langdon Winner published an influential critique of SCOT entitled \"Upon Opening the Black Box and Finding it Empty: Social Constructivism and the Philosophy of Technology.\" In it, he argues that social constructivism is an overly narrow research program. He identifies the following specific limitations in social constructivism:\nOther critics include Stewart Russell with his letter in the journal \"Social Studies of Science\" titled \"The Social Construction of Artifacts: A Response to Pinch and Bijker\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338047", "title": "Spokesperson", "text": "Spokesperson\n\nA spokesman, spokeswoman or spokesperson is someone engaged or elected to speak on behalf of others.\n\nIn the present media-sensitive world, many organizations are increasingly likely to employ professionals who have received formal training in journalism, communications, public relations and public affairs in this role in order to ensure that public announcements are made in the most appropriate fashion and through the most appropriate channels to maximize the impact of favorable messages, and to minimize the impact of unfavorable messages. Celebrity spokesmen such as popular local and national sports stars (such as Michael Jordan or Bob Uecker) or television and film stars (such as Beyoncé or Michael J. Fox) are often chosen as spokespeople for commercial advertising. As of August 2017, Kayleigh McEnany and Michael Tyler (DNC spokesman) served as spokesmen of the RNC and DNC, respectively.\n\nUnlike an individual giving a personal testimonial, it is the job of a spokesperson to faithfully represent and advocate for the organization's positions, even when these conflict with his/her own opinion. As a result, spokespeople are generally selected from experienced, long-time employees or other people who are known to support the organization's goals.\n\nA corporation may be represented in public by its chief executive officer, chairman or president, chief financial officer, counsel or external legal advisor. In addition, on a day-to-day level and for more routine announcements, the job may be delegated to the corporate communications or investor relations departments (or equivalents), who will act as spokespeople.\n\nIn the particle physics community, large collaborations of physicists elect one (or two) spokespeople or leader(s) of the collaboration. The spokesperson in such cases is the lead scientist of the collaboration, not a public speaker. Each collaboration chooses the roles and responsibilities of the spokesperson for internal purposes, but typically spokespeople also have defined roles for liaising with the host laboratory and/or funding agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "318915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318915", "title": "Stabilization policy", "text": "Stabilization policy\n\nA stabilization policy is a package or set of measures introduced to stabilize a financial system or economy.\nThe term can refer to policies in two distinct sets of circumstances: business cycle stabilization and economic crisis stabilization. In either case, it is a form of discretionary policy.\n\n“Stabilization” can refer to correcting the normal behavior of the business cycle, thus enhancing economic stability. In this case the term generally refers to demand management by monetary and fiscal policy to reduce normal fluctuations and output, sometimes referred to as \"keeping the economy on an even keel.\"\n\nThe policy changes in these circumstances are usually countercyclical, compensating for the predicted changes in employment and output, to increase short-run and medium run welfare.\n\nThe term can also refer to measures taken to resolve a specific economic crisis, for instance, an exchange-rate crisis or stock market crash, in order to prevent the economy developing recession or inflation.\n\nThe package is usually initiated either by a government or central bank, or by either or both of these institutions acting in concert with international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) or the World Bank. Depending on the goals to be achieved, it involves some combination of restrictive fiscal measures (to reduce government borrowing) and monetary tightening (to support the currency).\n\nRecent examples of such packages include Argentina's re-scheduling of its international obligations (where central banks and leading international banks re-scheduled Argentina's debt so as to allow it to avoid total default), and IMF interventions in South East Asia (at the end of the 1990s) when several Asian economies encountered financial turbulence. See examples:\n\n\nThis type of stabilization can be painful, in the short term, for the economy concerned because of lower output and higher unemployment. Unlike a business-cycle stabilization policy, these changes will often be pro-cyclical, reinforcing existing trends. While this is clearly undesirable, the policies are designed to be a platform for successful long-run growth and reform.\n\nIt has been argued that, rather than imposing such policies after a crisis, the international financial system architecture needs to be reformed to avoid some of the risks (e.g., hot money flows and/or hedge fund activity) that some people hold to destabilize economies and financial markets, and lead to the need for stabilization policies and, e.g., IMF interventions. Proposed measures include for example a global Tobin tax on currency trades across borders.\n\n"}
{"id": "18994141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994141", "title": "Stormfront (website)", "text": "Stormfront (website)\n\nStormfront is a white nationalist, white supremacist, antisemitic, Holocaust denial, neo-Nazi Internet forum, and the Web's first major racial hate site. In addition to its promotion of Holocaust denial, Stormfront has increasingly become active in the propagation of xenophobia.\nStormfront began as an online bulletin board system in the early 1990s before being established as a website in 1996 by former Ku Klux Klan leader and white supremacist Don Black. It received national attention in the United States in 2000 after being featured as the subject of a documentary, \"Hate.com\". Stormfront has been the subject of controversy after being removed from French, German, and Italian Google indexes, for targeting an online Fox News poll on racial segregation, and for having political candidates as members. Its prominence has grown since the 1990s, attracting attention from watchdog organizations that oppose racism and antisemitism. \n\nIn August 2017, Stormfront was taken offline for just over a month when its registrar seized its domain name due to complaints that it promoted hatred and that some of its members were linked to murder.\n\nStormfront began in 1990 as an online bulletin board for white nationalist David Duke's campaign for United States Senator for Louisiana. The name \"Stormfront\" was chosen for its connotations of a political or military front (such as the German Nazi stormtroopers, the Sturmabteilung or SA) and an analogy with weather fronts that invokes the idea of a tumultuous storm ending in cleansing. The Stormfront.org website was founded in 1996 by Don Black, a former Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan in the 1970s and a member of the National Socialist White People's Party. Black first received computer training while he was imprisoned for his role in an abortive 1981 attempt to overthrow the government of Dominica.\n\nAlthough Stormfront became the first website associated with white supremacy, its founding as a private cyberspace medium for white supremacy was based on the earlier online bulletin board system Liberty Net. Liberty Net was implemented in 1984 by Klan Grand Dragon Louis Beam and protected by four password protected computers that took the FBI two years to decrypt. Liberty Net's code-accessed message board contained personal ads along with recruitment material and information about the white power movement. Liberty Net's success as a computer platform led to Stormfront's establishment and later conversion into a website.\n\nUntil this point, attempts at using the Internet as opposed to bulletin boards for the white pride movement were met with limited success, but Stormfront quickly became popular with the growth of the Internet during the 1990s. By 1999, nearly 2,000 websites associated with white supremacy existed, with the recruitment power of reaching millions across the U.S.\n\nThe site has received considerable attention in the United States, in reports such as \"Hate.com\", a 2000 CBS/HBO documentary television special which focused on the perceived threat of white nationalist and white supremacist organizations on the Internet. Narrated by Morris Dees of the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), it featured interviews with Black and his son Derek as well as interviews with other white nationalist groups and organizations.\n\nIn 2002, Google complied with French and German legislation forbidding links to websites which host white supremacist, Holocaust-denying or historical revisionist material by removing Stormfront.org from their French and German indexes.\n\nStormfront returned to the news in May 2003, when Fox News Channel host Bill O'Reilly reported on a racially segregated prom being held in Georgia and posted a poll on his website asking his viewers if they would send their own children to one. The next night O'Reilly announced that he could not report the results of the poll as it appeared Stormfront had urged its members to vote in the poll, thus skewing the numbers.\n\nDoug Hanks, a candidate for the city council of Charlotte, North Carolina, withdrew his nomination in August 2005 after it was revealed that he had posted on Stormfront. Hanks had posted more than 4,000 comments over three years, including one in which he described black people as \"rabid beasts\". Hanks said his postings were designed to gain the trust of Stormfront users to help him write a novel: \"I did what I thought I needed to do to establish myself as a credible white nationalist.\"\n\nIn 2012 Italian police blocked the website and arrested four people for allegedly inciting racial hatred. The measure was taken after the publication of a blacklist of \"prominent Jews and people who support Jews and immigrants\" on the Italian section of the website. The list included possible targets of violent attacks, including gypsy camps. The subsequent year, Italian police raided the homes of 35 Stormfront posters, in November 2013. One man who was arrested in Mantua had two loaded weapons, a hand grenade casing, and a flag with a swastika in his possession.\n\nAccording to a 2014 two-year study by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC)'s Intelligence Report, registered Stormfront users have been disproportionately responsible for some of the most lethal hate crimes and mass killings since the site was put up in 1995. In the five years leading up to 2014, Stormfront members murdered nearly 100 people. Of these, 77 were massacred by one Stormfront user, Anders Behring Breivik, a Norwegian terrorist who perpetrated the 2011 Norway attacks.\n\nIn a 2001 \"USA Today\" article, journalist Tara McKelvey called Stormfront \"the most visited white supremacist site on the net\". The number of registered users on the site rose from 5,000 in January 2002 to 52,566 in June 2005, by which year it was the 338th largest Internet forum, receiving more than 1,500 hits each weekday and ranking in the top one percent of Internet sites in terms of use. By June 2008, the site was attracting more than 40,000 unique users each day. Operating the site from its West Palm Beach, Florida headquarters is Black's full-time job, and he was assisted by his son and 40 moderators. The public profile of the site attracted attention from groups such as the Simon Wiesenthal Center and the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). The ADL describes Stormfront as having \"served as a veritable supermarket of online hate, stocking its shelves with many forms of anti-Semitism and racism\".\n\nIn 2006, the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) reported a discussion on Stormfront in which white nationalists were encouraged to join the U.S. military to learn the skills necessary for winning a race war. The 2008 United States presidential candidacy of African-American Democrat Barack Obama was a cause of significant concern for some Stormfront members: the site received 2,000 new members the day after Obama was elected as President, and went offline temporarily due to the increase in visitors. Stormfront posters saw Obama as representing a new multicultural era in the United States replacing \"white rule\", feared that he would support illegal immigration and affirmative action, and that he would help make white people a minority group.\n\nDuring the 2008 primary campaigns, \"The New York Times\" mistakenly reported that Stormfront had donated $500 to Republican presidential hopeful Ron Paul; in fact, it was site owner Don Black who had contributed the money to Paul. Following an April 2009 shooting, Richard Poplawski, a poster on the site, was charged with ambushing and killing three Pittsburgh Police officers and attempting to kill nine others.\n\nDuring the 2016 election season, site founder Don Black said that the site was experiencing huge spikes in traffic corresponding to controversial statements by Donald Trump, who is popular among white supremacists. In response, Black upgraded the site's servers.\n\nBlack's son Derek, who was a long-time participant in the site, has disavowed the beliefs held by his father and family and the Stormfront site, according to an article in \"The Washington Post\". Through his years in college, Derek Black came to feel that white nationalism is not supportable.\n\nIn August 2017, Stormfront's domain name was seized by its registrar for \"displaying bigotry, discrimination or hatred.\" Earlier the same month, white supremacist news and commentary website The Daily Stormer had been removed from the public Internet for its involvement in the Unite the Right rally.\n\nThe site came back online on September 29, 2017. As of October 2017, services to keep the site online were provided by Tucows, Network Solutions, and Cloudflare.\n\nStormfront is a white nationalist, white supremacist and neo-Nazi website known as a hate site.\n\nIt is a site on which Nazi mysticism and the personality cult of Adolf Hitler are sustained and Nazi iconography is used and accepted. The Stormfront.org website is organized primarily as a discussion forum with multiple thematic sub-fora including \"News\", \"Ideology and Philosophy\" (\"Foundations for White Nationalism\"), \"Culture and Customs\", \"Theology\", \"Quotations\", \"Revisionism\", \"Science, Technology and Race\" (\"Genetics, eugenics, racial science and related subjects\"), \"Privacy\", \"Self-Defense, Martial Arts, and Preparedness\", \"Homemaking\", \"Education and Homeschooling\", \"Youth\", and \"Music and Entertainment\". There are boards for different geographic regions, and a section open to unregistered guests, who are elsewhere unable to post, and even then, only under heavy moderation.\n\nStormfront.org hosts files from and links to a number of white nationalist and white racist websites, an online dating service (for \"heterosexual White Gentiles only\"), and electronic mailing lists that allows the white nationalist community to discuss issues of interest. It features a selection of current news reports, an archive of past stories, live streaming of \"The Political Cesspool\" radio show, and a merchandise store featuring literature and music. Stormfront has reportedly published stories aimed at children.\n\nA 2001 study of recruitment by extremist groups on the Internet noted that Stormfront at that time came close to offering most of the standard services offered by web portals, including an internal search engine, web hosting, and categorized links, and lacking only an Internet search engine and the provision of free email for its members (though a limited email service was available at the price of $30 a month).\n\nProminently featured on the homepage is a Celtic cross surrounded by the words \"white pride, world wide.\" A mission statement praises courage and freedom. Stormfront states it discourages racial slurs, and prohibits violent threats and descriptions of anything illegal. Others state that blatant hate and calls for violence are only kept off the opening page.\n\nThe site uses the Fraktur font, which was the favored font of the Nazi Party when it emerged in the early 1920s. Official Nazi documents and letterheads employed the font, and the cover of Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\" used a hand-drawn version of it.\n\nDon Black has long worked to increase the mainstream appeal of white supremacism. Black established Stormfront to heighten awareness of perceived anti-white discrimination and government actions detrimental to white people, and to create a virtual community of white extremists. Black owns the site's servers so he is not dependent upon website hosting providers.\n\nBlack's organization inculcated enough white pride to make \"its worldwide aspirations meaningful and socially significant\". Stormfront keeps the rhetoric in its forums muted, discourages racial slurs, and prohibits violent threats and descriptions of anything illegal. Site moderator Jamie Kelso was reportedly \"the motivating force behind real community-building among Stormfront members\" due to his energy and enthusiasm in organizing offline events. Black's positioning the site as a community with the explicit purpose of \"defending the white race\" helped sustain the community, as it attracts white people who define themselves in opposition to ethnic minorities, particularly Jews.\n\nStormfront established MartinLutherKing.org to discredit Martin Luther King, Jr. In a 2001 study of white nationalist groups including Stormfront, academics Beverly Ray and George E. Marsh II commented that \"Like the Nazis before them, they rely upon a blend of science, ignorance, and mythology to prop up their arguments\".\n\nStormfront presents itself as being engaged in a struggle for unity, identifying culture, speech and free association as its core concerns, though members of Stormfront are especially passionate about racial purity. It promotes a lone wolf mentality, which links it to white nationalist theorist Louis Beam's influential work on leaderless resistance and offers a sympathetic assessment of Benjamin Nathaniel Smith, a white supremacist who committed suicide after a racially motivated killing spree in July 1999. Violet Jones notes that Stormfront credits its mission to \"the founding myth of an America created, built, and ideologically grounded by the descendants of white Europeans.\" Don Black has specifically compared his views to those of the Founding Fathers, whom he asserts \"did not believe that an integrated black and white society was possible in America.\" Asked in 2008 by an interviewer for the Italian newspaper \"la Repubblica\" whether Stormfront was a 21st-century version of the Ku Klux Klan without the iconography, Black responded affirmatively, though he noted that he would never say so to an American journalist. In addition to its promotion of antisemitism and Holocaust denial, Stormfront has increasingly become active in the propagation of Islamophobia.\n\n"}
{"id": "20852724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20852724", "title": "Suiting Themselves", "text": "Suiting Themselves\n\nSuiting Themselves: How Corporations Drive the Global Agenda is a 2006 book by Professor Sharon Beder. Beder argues that an international corporate elite dictate global politics for their own benefit. She suggests that they created business associations and ‘think tanks’ in the 1970s to drive public policy, push a free trade agenda, and promote the worldwide privatization and deregulation of public services in the 1980s and 1990s, and have worked since the late 1990s to rewrite the rules of the global economy. \n"}
{"id": "11645968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11645968", "title": "Tenglish", "text": "Tenglish\n\nTenglish (), a portmanteau of the words Telugu and English, is the combined usage of Telugu and English in one sentence.\n\nThis form of code-switching is more commonly seen in urban and suburban centers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, but is slowly spreading into rural and remote areas via television and word of mouth. Many speakers do not realize that they are incorporating English words into Telugu sentences or Telugu words into English sentences. For example, instead of saying \"dhanyavadhamulu\" for \"thank you\", most people say \"chala thanks\" literally translating to \"a lot of thanks.\" This type of Telugu speaking is slowly growing outside of cities like Hyderabad, Vizag, Vijayawada, Khammam ,Guntur and Warangal. As English becomes more and more prevalent, it can be seen in small towns, villages, and even rural areas.\n\nIt may have a slight influence by the Indian language of Dakhani.\n\nWith its growing popularity, Tenglish is being used to publish news online. The advent of cable television and its pervasive growth has seen the masses exposed to a wide variety of programming from across the world. Another factor contributing to the spread of Tenglish is the popularity of Tollywood films and TV channels. Tenglish also appears in Indian crossword puzzles, such as those in the Telugu paper \"Sakshi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21936178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21936178", "title": "Ulster Unionist Chief Whip", "text": "Ulster Unionist Chief Whip\n\nThis is a list of people who served as Chief Whip of the Ulster Unionist Party in the Parliament of the United Kingdom, the Parliament of Northern Ireland and the Northern Ireland Assembly.\n\nUntil 1969, Chief Whips were given the title \"Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Finance\".\n\nUntil 1969, Assistant Whips were given the title \"Assistant Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Finance\".\n"}
{"id": "456309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456309", "title": "United Farmers", "text": "United Farmers\n\nUnited Farmers may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2605490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2605490", "title": "Wireless electronic devices and health", "text": "Wireless electronic devices and health\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has researched electromagnetic fields (EMFs) and their alleged effects on public health, concluding that such exposures within recommended limits do not produce any known adverse health effect.\n\nIn response to public concern, the WHO established the \"International EMF Project\" in 1996 to assess the scientific evidence of possible health effects of EMF in the frequency range from 0 to 300 GHz. They have stated that although extensive research has been conducted into possible health effects of exposure to many parts of the frequency spectrum, all reviews conducted so far have indicated that, as long as exposures are below the limits recommended in the ICNIRP (1998) EMF guidelines, which cover the full frequency range from 0–300 GHz, such exposures do not produce any known adverse health effect. Stronger or more frequent exposures to EMF can be unhealthy, and in fact serve as the basis for electromagnetic weaponry.\n\nInternational guidelines on exposure levels to microwave frequency EMFs such as ICNIRP limit the power levels of wireless devices and it is uncommon for wireless devices to exceed the guidelines. These guidelines only take into account thermal effects, as nonthermal effects have not been conclusively demonstrated. The official stance of the British Health Protection Agency is that “[T]here is no consistent evidence to date that WiFi and WLANs adversely affect the health of the general population”, but also that “...it is a sensible precautionary approach...to keep the situation under ongoing review...”.\n\nIn 2011, International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), an agency of the World Health Organization, classified wireless radiation as Group 2B – possibly carcinogenic. That means that there \"could be some risk\" of carcinogenicity, so additional research into the long-term, heavy use of wireless devices needs to be conducted.\n\nUsers of wireless devices are typically exposed for much longer periods than for mobile phones and the strength of wireless devices is not significantly less. Whereas a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) mobile phone can range from 21 dBm (125 mW) for Power Class 4 to 33 dBm (2W) for Power class 1, a wireless router can range from a typical 15 dBm (30 mW) strength to 27 dBm (500 mW) on the high end.\n\nHowever, wireless routers are typically located significantly farther away from users' heads than a mobile phone the user is handling, resulting in far less exposure overall. The Health Protection Agency (HPA) says that if a person spends one year in a location with a Wi-Fi hotspot, they will receive the same dose of radio waves as if they had made a 20-minute call on a mobile phone.\n\nThe HPA also says that due to the mobile phone's adaptive power ability, a DECT cordless phone's radiation could actually exceed the radiation of a mobile phone. The HPA explains that while the DECT cordless phone's radiation has an average output power of 10 mW, it is actually in the form of 100 bursts per second of 250 mW, a strength comparable to some mobile phones.\n\nMost wireless LAN equipment is designed to work within predefined standards. Wireless access points are also often close to humans, but the drop off in power over distance is fast, following the inverse-square law. However, wireless laptops are typically used close to humans. WiFi had been anecdotally linked to electromagnetic hypersensitivity but research into electromagnetic hypersensitivity has found no systematic evidence supporting claims made by sufferers.\n\nThe HPA's position is that “...radio frequency (RF) exposures from WiFi are likely to be lower than those from mobile phones.” It also saw “...no reason why schools and others should not use WiFi equipment.” In October 2007, the HPA launched a new “systematic” study into the effects of WiFi networks on behalf of the UK government, in order to calm fears that had appeared in the media in a recent period up to that time\". Dr Michael Clark, of the HPA, says published research on mobile phones and masts does not add up to an indictment of WiFi.\n\nRadio frequency in the microwave and radio spectrum is used in a number of practical devices for professional and home use, such as:\n\nIn addition, electrical and electronic devices of all kinds emit EM fields around their working circuits, generated by oscillating currents. Humans are in daily contact with computers, video display monitors, television screens, microwave ovens, fluorescent lamps, electric motors of several kinds (such as washing machines, kitchen appliances [like electric can openers, blenders, and mixers], water pumps, etc.) and many others. A study of bedroom exposure in 2009 showed the highest ELF-EF from bedside lights and the highest ELF-MF from transformer devices, while the highest RF-ELF came from DECT cordless phones and outside cellphone base stations; all exposures were well below International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) guideline levels.\n\nThe highest typical daily exposure, according to a study of 2009, came from cellphone base stations, cellphones and DECT cordless phones, with the highest exposure locations in trains, airports and buses. The typical background power of electromagnetic fields in the home can vary from zero to 5 milliwatts per meter squared. Long-term effects of these electromagnetic fields on human and animal health are still unknown.\n\nSome implanted medical devices use radio frequency communication - both to report status, and to allow changing device behavior. Emissions from wireless electronic devices can interfere with the functioning of these devices, thereby adversely affecting the health of the user. Users of such implanted devices are usually cautioned to avoid close exposure to other wireless devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38507626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38507626", "title": "X and Others v Austria", "text": "X and Others v Austria\n\nX and Others v. Austria 53 ILM 64 was a human rights case that was decided in 2013 by the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR). The case concerned whether the Government of Austria had discriminated against Austrian citizens who were in same-sex relationships because the wording of the Austrian Civil Code (German: \"Allgermeines Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch\") did not permit unmarried same-sex couples access to legally granted second-parent adoptions, whereas it was available to unmarried heterosexual couples.\n\n\"X and Others v. Austria\" is viewed by international legal scholars as being the first recognition of the right of unmarried same-sex couples to second-parent adoption in European States that are a party to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). However, the European Court of Human Rights considered the ruling built on discrimination protections that have been established as part of the body of LGBT rights in Europe.\n\nLGBT rights have been established in a number of different countries in a response to a shift in social attitudes towards the LGBT community. Some of those rights concern LGBT parenting which encompasses the legal provisions relevant to the paternal rights that can be granted to individuals who identify with the LGBT community.\n\nAdoption is one of the LGBT parental rights that is recognised to exist in some European states. However, the LGBT community has historically had difficulty in being granted the legal rights to adoption and currently only 19 out of the 56 European States have made adoption legal to members of the LGBT community. There was widespread public opposition against the idea of LGBT adoption, arising from concern about the developmental health of children raised in LGBT families. A pervasive view existed that the biological child needs a parent of either sex to experience healthy development. This view was seen to justify restricting adoption to same-sex couples. However, as social attitudes towards the LGBT community have begun to shift, the LGBT community have been incrementally granted legal rights. Scientific research into childhood development has concluded that children growing up in same-sex families are not disadvantaged.\n\nHuman rights law is a body of law that covers LGBT individuals and their right to live in society. The human rights regime is governed by the European Convention on Human Rights within the European Union. Alleged violations of an individual’s human rights by a contracting State within the European Union can be brought before the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nAdoption by same-sex couples had already come before the Court on a number of occasions. In 1999 the ECtHR ruled that in the context of awarding custody to one parent or another, difference in treatment based solely on considerations of sexual orientation was impermissible by the ECHR. The European Court of Human Rights first considered a lesbian or gay individual’s rights to adoption in \"Frette v France\". In that case the ECtHR found that denying a single homosexual man the right to adopt a child did not violate the ECHR. In \"E.B and France\", the ECtHR distinguished the case from \"Frette\" finding that making a distinction based on sexual orientation was impermissible under the ECHR. Finally in \"Gas & Dubois v France\" two women living in a same-sex relationship sought an adoption order to allow one of the partner's children to be adopted by the other partner. When the French Government denied their request, they appealed to the ECtHr. However, the ECtHR found that only couples who were married could obtain this form of adoption and because the couple could not form a marriage they could not enjoy its special legal status.\n\nX and her partner were living together in a stable same-sex relationship. X’s partner was previously married and had given birth to a child with her husband. X’s partner now had sole custody of the child. X sought court approval of the second-parent adoption such that the relationship with the biological father and his relatives under family law would cease to exist while the relationship with the biological mother would remain fully intact. However, the child’s father still recognised his paternal legal rights and refused to grant his consent to the adoption. The applicants wanted the court to override the father’s refusal for consent as he displayed the utmost antagonism towards the family. \n\nAustrian law recognised many different forms of adoption, however it prevented second-parent adoptions made by homosexual couples in accordance with s182(2) of the Austrian Civil Code. Section 182(2) provided for second-parent adoption if the adopting parents had formed a marriage. Importantly, it did not prevent unmarried heterosexual couples from doing so. X concluded an adoption agreement and sent in to the Austrian District Court for approval, knowing it would be denied. The domestic court argued that the father refused to give his consent and that the adoption requested by them was in any case not possible under Austrian law. Upon that verdict, X and her partner applied to the Constitutional Court of Austria to have the s179 declared unconstitutional because it discriminated against them on the basis of their sexual orientation. They argued that in the case of an opposite-sex couple, the District Court would have carried out a detailed examination (as to whether override the father’s refusal or not) and would have had to deliver a separate decision on this issue. However, in the applicants’ case it had denied them any inquiry of the facts on the ground that the adoption requested by them was in any case not possible under Austrian law. The Constitutional Court of Austria refused to do so and rendered the request inadmissible.\n\nX, her partner and her biological child appealed to the European Court of Human Rights and appeared as joint applicants.\n\nAfter argument and deliberation the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights held by a 10-7 majority that the Austrian government violated article 8 and article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights when taken together. The Court distinguished \"Gas and Dubois v. France\" finding there was no legitimate and proportionate aim in restricting second-parent adoption to unmarried heterosexual couples. X and her partner were found to have been discriminated against as they could not obtain a second-parent adoption but unmarried couples living together in a stable heterosexual relationship could.\n\nThe ECtHR observed that the three applicants lived together in a situation that was alike to that of a heterosexual family unit.\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights provided the human rights framework which the Court examined in relation to Austrian adoption laws. Articles 8 and 14 are relevant to LGBT adoption. Article 8 provides that “everyone has a right to respect for his family and private life, his home and his correspondence” and Article 14 prevents discrimination based on any grounds such as “sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, association with a national minority, property, birth or other status”. While article 8 is a substantive right conferred by the ECHR, article 14 is considered to be dependent on the other articles as it protects the freedoms that have been granted by the other articles in the Convention.\n\nThe Court noted that the Austrian government did not have to extend second-parent adoptions to unmarried heterosexual couples and because it did, it was required to justify why it didn't extend it to unmarried same-sex couples also. The Austrian government argued that the Austrian Civil Code was justified on the basis that it aimed to recreate the biological circumstances of the family unit, and the margin of appreciation should be wide in the case of adoption and that no formal consensus in Europe existed on the issue of second-parent adoptions. The margin of appreciation is a legal concept in the EU jurisdiction that takes a relativist stance to issues of human rights in differing European States. It allows for different standards, when European States have not formed a definite consensus on a particular issue. However, the ECtHR disagreed, finding that not extending the right to same-sex couples discriminated against those couples on the grounds that it violated their Article 8 right to respect for a private and family life when read in conjunction with Article 14.\n\nThe seven dissenting judges also gave a combined opinion. They held the denial of second-parent adoption was not a violation of the ECHR as the Court should not have examined the legislation, but rather the particular circumstances in the case, because it was uncertain whether adoption, in this case, was in the child’s best interests.\n\nAlthough the decision appears to be important in extending LGBT rights to adoption, the European Court of Human Rights themselves carefully limited the scope of their ruling. It chose to frame ‘’X and Others v. Austria’’ narrowly, as a matter of alleged discrimination between unmarried heterosexual and homosexual couples, rather than a ruling on the issue of second-parent adoption.\n\nHowever, subsequent commentators have questioned that interpretation, in effect in being that same as considering \"X and Others v. Austria\" as being the first time in which the European Court of Human Rights has recognised the right to second-parent adoption by same-sex couples.\n\n\n\n"}
