{"id": "5593083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593083", "title": "Action item", "text": "Action item\n\nIn management, an action item is a documented event, task, activity, or action that needs to take place. Action items are discrete units that can be handled by a single person.\n\nAction items are usually created during a discussion by a group of people who are meeting about one or more topics and during the discussion it is discovered that some kind of action is needed. The act required is then documented as an action item and usually assigned to someone, usually a member of the group. The person to whom the action is assigned is then obligated to perform the action and report back to the group on the results.\n\nAction items are usually documented in the meeting minutes and are recorded in the task list of the group. As people complete action items, the items are documented as being completed and the item is removed from the list of outstanding action items.\n\nThere are many attributes that can be associated with an action item - e.g.:\n\nA usual format for an action item is to record an action item number, the date when the action item is identified or created, the name of the person to whom the action is assigned, a title description of the action, a more detailed description of the action and its outcomes, and its deliverables.\n\nAn action item can be considered a more general form of various types of action/issue/defect tracking methods. For instance, a bug report is a form of action item as is a service report created by a service company to track a problem reported by a customer or an RMA number.\n\nFollow up in a consistent and timely manner with the responsible individual(s) to track their progress and drive the action item to resolution.\n\nIt is important to understand the distinction here that we track to resolution and not to completion. While it is the goal to have every action item completed, there are numerous scenarios in which the action item may no longer be relevant or completion may not be possible.\n\nThere are a number of software applications for tracking action items or service reports. These applications are used within software development organizations as well as in customer support functions. Because these software applications facilitate group communication, they are often referred to as Collaborative software or groupware.. Various such software are available in the market. They are known to increase the productivity of Managers.\n\nMany information technology support groups use some kind of service report software so that when a trouble report is called in, the person answering the telephone will create a trouble ticket to track the issue. The trouble ticket is assigned to a member of the IT services organization who then visits the person who has reported a problem and resolves the problem. The IT services person will then close out the trouble ticket indicating the issue has been resolved.\n\nRecent research at the Computational Semantics Lab at Stanford University seeks to automatically identify action items and extract their properties (the \"what\", \"who\", and \"when\" of the action item) using automatic speech recognition transcripts from spontaneous, multi-party conversations during meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "10655515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10655515", "title": "Advertising Research Foundation", "text": "Advertising Research Foundation\n\nThe Advertising Research Foundation (ARF) is a nonprofit industry association for creating, aggregating, synthesizing and sharing knowledge in the fields of advertising and media. It was founded in 1936 by the Association of National Advertisers and the American Association of Advertising Agencies. Its stated mission is to improve the practice of advertising, marketing and media research in pursuit of more effective marketing and advertising communications. Its membership consists of over 400 advertisers, advertising agencies, research firms, media companies, educational institutions and international organizations.\n\nThe ARF conducts several research initiatives. It publishes the \"Journal of Advertising Research\", a peer-reviewed academic periodical. It also sponsors a variety of advertising-related marketing research endeavours and hosts periodic conferences on advertising and media-related topics. The ARF operates the \"Roy Morgan Information Center\" as a clearinghouse for advertising research, promulgating industry standards and guidelines, and it provides training and administers the annual \"David Ogilvy Awards Program\".\n\nThe ARF has a Knowledge Center which houses historical reports, papers and videos developed during the formative years of the advertising research industry which are not available anywhere else. Established in 1953 to serve as a central resource for the wealth of materials relating to advertising research, the ARF Knowledge Center also offers specialized tools and services to help ARF members keep up-to-date with the latest knowledge that is applicable to their business needs. \nThe Advertising Research Agency was formed in 1936. During its first 15 years, ARF sponsored over 200 studies including studies involving newspapers, farm magazines, business magazines, and an executive management publication.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1950s the ARF began working with media companies in addition to advertisers and agencies. The agency supervised a study on household ownership of radio & television sets in 1954. It also published \"Recommended Standards for Radio & Television Program Audience Size Measurements,\" in 1954. In 1955 the ARF influenced the U.S. Census Bureau to include a TV ownership question in its questionnaires. Research companies were invited to become ARF members in 1967. \nDuring the 1990s, the ARF spearheaded notable primary research in studies such as the \"Copy Research Validity Project\", which redefined the area of copy testing, and the \"ARF/Ad Council Study\" to determine the impact of public service advertising. More recently, the ARF has pioneered efforts to define advertising engagement and to measure consumers' emotional responses to advertising.\n\nThe ARF hosts forums, which are meetings and presentations where industry experts and members can share knowledge and information. Forums are held in the ARF's NYC office located at 432 Park Avenue South and are also available virtually.\n\n"}
{"id": "3861100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3861100", "title": "Aida Álvarez", "text": "Aida Álvarez\n\nAída M. Álvarez (born 1950) is a Puerto Rican businesswoman and politician. She is the first Latina woman to hold a United States Cabinet-level position, as the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, during Bill Clinton's presidency.\n\nAlvarez was born in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico into a family of modest economical means, who despite their hardships always encouraged her to pursue her dreams. After she received her primary education in Puerto Rico, her family moved to New York City in hopes of improving their economic situation. In New York, she attended high school and participated in a program called \"ASPIRA\". \"ASPIRA\" was founded by Dr. Antonia Pantoja and has helped disadvantaged children, especially girls, gain the leadership skills and knowledge required to go to college.\n\nÁlvarez applied and was accepted at Radcliffe College of Harvard University where in 1971 she earned her Bachelor of Arts degree, graduating \"cum laude\". During her student years many people provided her with support.\n\nÁlvarez began her career as a journalist for the \"New York Post\" and won a \"Front Page Award\". She later became a news reporter and anchor for Metromedia Television (Channel Five) also in New York. In 1982, she won an Associated Press Award for Excellence and she was nominated for an Emmy Award for her reporting of guerilla activities in El Salvador.\n\nÁlvarez ventured into the banking business by becoming an investment banker at the First Boston Corporation and at Bear Stearns. As a public servant, she spent two years at the NYC Health and Hospitals Corp. She was also a commissioner on the New York City Charter Revision Commission and a member of the Mayor's (NYC) Committee on Appointments. On June 1993, Álvarez was named Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. She created a financial safety and soundness oversight program for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.\n\nIn 1997, Álvarez was appointed by President Bill Clinton, Administrator of the Small Business Administration, thus becoming the first Hispanic woman and Puerto Rican to serve as an executive officer in the U.S. Cabinet. She directed the delivery of a comprehensive set of financial and business development programs for American small businesses. The agency provided financing worth eleven billion dollars a year to small businesses across the nation.\n\nIn 2000, Álvarez was elected to the Board of Overseers of Harvard University. Her role is to visit the graduate schools, departments and museums of the University to ensure that the University remains true to its Charter as a place of learning. She also serves on the National Trust for Historic Preservation; the Coalition for Supportive Housing and is on the Board of Trustees of the Latino Community Foundation.\n\nDuring the 2004 Presidential Election, Álvarez was named official spokeswoman for Senator John Kerry. Álvarez had met Kerry during her days as the Small Business Administration administrator. She became familiar with his work in the U.S. Senate for small business development. As of January 2008, Alvarez sits on the board of directors for Wal-Mart. As of 2014, Álvarez sits on the Board of Directors of The Cisneros Center for New Americans.\n\nÁlvarez has been featured in many magazines, among them \"Latina Style\" and is featured in the book \"Hard Won Wisdom\" by Fawn Gerner, where she is quoted as saying: \nAlvarez is married to Raymond Baxter, a senior Vice President at Kaiser Permanente. They have two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "33710900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33710900", "title": "Alex Berger", "text": "Alex Berger\n\nAlex Berger is a creator, producer, consultant and media entrepreneur. During his career, he participated in numerous TV programs in Europe and more specifically France (Rock Report, Rapido, Burger Quizz…) ; invented the multi access web portal Vizzavi (later sold to Vodafone and baptised Vodafone Live), founded & accelerated the growth of several media companies (NBdC, Chez Wam…) and occupied various executive positions, notably with Pierre Lescure at Canal+, and as Chairman & CEO of CanalNumédia & VivendiNet (group Vivendi Universal). He is currently a producer of TV scripted entertainment through The Oligarchs Productions based in Paris; a consultant through MM&I and owns the digital distribution company ENTJOY.\n\nAlex Berger was born on March 22, 1962 in Philadelphia, USA of a French mother, Francine Dreyfus-Berger, a painter and an American father, Dr. Joseph Berger, PhD. \nAt 10, he moved to France with his parents and sister Sylvie Berger. After a French education, he briefly studied at the University of Pennsylvania and then lived alternatively between France & the United States.\nHe currently lives in Paris, with his wife Florence Servan-Schreiber and their three children (Pénélope, Arthur & Léon Berger).\n\nHis career begins in 1982 at Tele Monte Carlo TMC in the Principality of Monaco where Michel Lacroix, SVP of TMC recruits him as an intern script assistant over the summer. After multiple positions and notably the coordination of Princess Grace’s funeral ceremonies, at 21, Alex is promoted by Jean-Claude Heberlé, then CEO of RMC-TMC, as producer of the evening news. While at TMC he meets Alain Chabat ( a radio host on RMC at the time).\n\nHe quit Monte-Carlo in 1984 and creates his first production company : Real to Reel Filmworks, Inc. in Los Angeles with the Baron Edmond de Rothschild & his son Benjamin de Rothschild. This company produces short programs for the emerging industry of US cable TV networks. It develops for Revell (the US toy and model company and US subsidiary of Compagnie industrielle du jouet) one of the first animated series based on a toy line (Robotech), produced by Harmony Gold USA, Frank Agrama.\n\nAfter the sale of Real to Reel, Inc. Alex Berger returns to Europe in the financial sector at Banque privée Edmond de Rothschild in Geneva, as a financial analyst specialized in the media & communication fields.\n\n18 months later, in 1986, he returns to Paris, France and founds NBdC with partners Tim Newman and Antoine de Caunes. NBdC rapidly becomes one of the leading independent production companies in France specialized in programs for the young adult audience. NBdC notably produces :\n\n\nNBdC also produces a series of documentaries (Génération 90, on Antenne 2), numerous music videos such as « Precious Thing » by Dee Dee Bridge Water & Ray Charles ; « Goodbye Marylou » by Michel Polnareff and a 100 more including France’s idol Johnny Hallyday. NBdC also produces commercials, graphic design and TV id and institutional films.\n\nIn 1989, capitalizing on NBdC’s international notoriety, Alex Berger, Tim Newman, Antoine de Caunes and prolific producer Peter Stuart partner with Richard Branson to create a 50/50 joint venture : Rapido TV. Rapido TV instantly becomes a significant TV program supplier in the UK \"Euro Trash\" on channel4 with Antoine de Caunes & Jean Paul Gaultier, « Passengers », « Around the world in 80 raves », « Baadasss TV » presented by Ice-T, « The Girly Show », « Unzipped », « Carnal Knowledge »…), fictions (« Is Harry on the Boat ? ») & documentaries (« Fortean TV », « Channel Hopping », « Dying to be beautiful », « Unpeeled », «Gérard Depardieu : the ugly frog that became a prince » ; « Brigitte Bardot : the reluctant godesss », and « Serge Gainsbourg : France’s secret vice », « Naked City », « Graham Norton’s Rock Babylon »…and plenty more).\n\nIn 1993, Alex Berger starts his collaboration with Michel Thoulouze of Groupe Canal +, first as a producer for « le meilleur du pire » series on Canal Jimmy, then as strategic development consultant, notably for the international thematic channel « Voilà », focused on the luxe and French savoir-vivre. He also takes part in the creation of MultiThématiques S.A, assembling Canal Plus’s thematic channels (Planète, Jimmy, CinéCinéma, Cine Cinefil & Seasons).\n\nOn November 4, 1994 he is nominated Directeur Délégué & special advisor to Pierre Lescure, Chairman & CEO of Groupe Canal+.Pierre Lescure.\nIn this capacity as well as member of the Strategic Committee, he initiates or participates in all strategic developments of Canal+ Group and is directly involved in all major developments of the company between 1994 and 2000 : \n\nIn 1997, Alex Berger invents the multi-access web portal Vizzavi, that allows the migration of content between Premium pay TV subscribers, internet subscribers, and mobile subscribers. The service called Vizzavi and co-held by Vodafone under the name Vodafone Live.\n\nIn 1998, Alex Berger founds and becomes the first Chairman & CEO of CanalNumedia. CanalNumedia heds all of Group Canal+’s internet activities (notably in sports, movies and gaming). In 1999 he is promoted co-CEO of Vivendi Universal Net (VivendiNet) along with Franck Boulben. VivendiNet regrouped together all Canal+’s digital content as well as all of the digital activities of Vivendi (Allociné, Havas, Blizzard, Sierra, iFrance, Cegetel, Vizzavi, two venture capital funds and many more companies around the world.))\n\nIn 1998, Alex Berger was appointed to the Vivendi strategic committee .\nAt the beginning of January 2000, following the announcement of the merger between AOL and Time Warner, Alex understands the necessity to elaborate an offensive strategy in order to avoid being desintermediated by the owners of premium content made in the US and held by the major studios.\n\nUpon approval by Jean Marie Messier and Pierre Lescure, Alex Berger initiates, with the help of Terry Semel, former CEO of Warner Brothers, a deal with Edgar Bronfman Jr, CEO of Seagram, parent company of Universal. This strategy will lead to the merger between Vivendi, Universal and Canal+ in June 2000.\n\nAfter closing the deal and in spite of the position he then occupies within the new merged entity, Alex Berger decides that the internal politics and the strategy are not in line his vision he had and quits in September 2000., Alex Berger décide de quitter le groupe Canal+ en septembre 2000.\n\nAt the end of 2000, Alex Berger establishes two companies : Content Participations S.A and MM&I\nContent Participations invests in content companies in order to stimulate their growth in the domains of TV, films, web, music publishing, online gaming. Content Participations S.A is both an investor and a consultant to these firms.\n\nThrough CP, Alex Berger has been associated with companies such as : \n\nIn June 2006, Content Participations is taken over by his partner Benjamin de Rothschild and is now part of EBR Finances.\n\nMM&I (Me, Myself and I) is a company that provides strategic consulting in development & innovation notably in media and media related business development. Among its clients : Yahoo !, Philips, Sanoma, France 24, 365 media, LVMH, producers of content and other international companies.\n\nAlex Berger is the founder, Chairman and CEO of ENTJOY SAS, a digital distributor of content in Europe and Asia. www.entjoy.com Entjoy connects brands to original content from producers and to a selection of web, mobile, connected devices and TV media partners in France, Europa and Asia.\n\nAlex Berger & Eric Rochant are partners in The Oligarchs Productions since 2008. \nBased in Paris, the company was founded on the basis of bridging the gap between European original ideas and talent in scripted drama and comedy and the mature US system of production. The Oligarchs Productions (TOP) is the producer of The Bureau (Le Bureau des Légendes) an award winning scripted drama series on Canal+ in France, Amazon Prime Original in the UK, iTunes in the US, SVT in Sweden, VRT and BeTV in Belgium and many other countries. TOP started with the development of the original series The Oligarchs for Canal+ and is currently developing several international formats and series.\n\n"}
{"id": "3716965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3716965", "title": "Alfred I. du Pont", "text": "Alfred I. du Pont\n\nAlfred Irénée du Pont (May 12, 1864 – April 28, 1935) was an American industrialist, financier, philanthropist and a member of the influential Du Pont family.\n\nAlfred du Pont first rose to prominence through his work in his family's Delaware-based gunpowder manufacturing plant, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (now known as DuPont), in which for many years he served as a director of the board and Vice President of operations.\n\nFollowing an acrimonious departure and a brief dip in personal fortunes, he embarked on business of his own, investing in land and banking in Florida. He died a multimillionaire, with the bulk of his fortune sustaining the Alfred I. duPont Testamentary Trust.\n\nDu Pont was born in the Brandywine Valley region of Delaware to which his great-great-grandfather Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours had immigrated with his sons after the French Revolution. The son of Éleuthère Irénée du Pont II, a partner in the DuPont family gunpowder business, and Charlotte Shepard Henderson, he had two older sisters and two younger brothers. When du Pont was 13, his mother, who had a history of mental illness, was committed to an asylum following an episode of hysteria. Within a week, she died. The du Pont children were orphaned a month later when Éleuthère followed, a victim of tuberculosis.\nDu Pont's family intended to separate the children and sell their family home, Swamp Hall, but were persuaded otherwise by the fierce resistance of the children. The girls remained in the home, but du Pont was sent to boarding school: first, to the religious Shinn Academy in New Jersey and then, two years later, Phillips Academy at Andover, Massachusetts. After graduation, he enrolled in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, rooming with his cousin T. Coleman du Pont.\n\nIn 1884, after only two years at MIT, he left to work at the family's gunpowder manufacturing plant in the Brandywine mills. Though he started in a low position, he eventually became known, according to the Alfred I. du Pont Foundation, as \"one of the nation's top powder men.\" Most of the over 200 patents he registered were related to this work.\n\nDu Pont married his cousin Bessie Gardner (1864–1949) in 1887, and she was the mother of his first four children. In 1889, the manufacturing plant passed to the management of Eugène du Pont, at which time it was reorganized and renamed E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, and du Pont was made a limited partner. Beyond that, Eugène du Pont and other family members largely ignored du Pont, excluding him from the company board.\n\nIn 1902, upon the death of Eugène du Pont, the three senior partners considered selling the company to competitor Laflin & Rand Powder Company. Du Pont proposed keeping the company in the family, and the senior partners agreed on condition that du Pont be joined in the venture by T. Coleman du Pont, who would be president, and Pierre S. du Pont. They had no money, but the cousins were able to convince other family members to exchange their company shares for a promissory note instead of cash, plus shares in the reorganized company. According to the Trust organization, the company was purchased \"for $15.4 million—$12 million in notes and 33,000 shares of the reorganized DuPont\", with the partners retaining $8.6 million worth of shares (86,400). The actual amount of money which the partners were required to pay was $2,100, at $700 each for lawyers' fees.\n\nPierre du Pont was named Treasurer and Executive Vice President of the company, while Alfred du Pont served as vice president for operations and took over the black powder manufacture and sat on the Executive Committee. Alfred was directly engaged with the company and instituted major changes to its operation that resulted in greater efficiency and safety, leading to a boom in business.\n\nDuring this period, du Pont was involved in a hunting accident that would eventually cost him an eye. The same year, 1906, he divorced his first wife, Bessie. The couple's marriage had never been a happy one, and although du Pont supported his family financially, with $24,000 a year in support, he cut off contact with all but his eldest child, Madeleine du Pont. With a week's eviction notice, he removed them from the family home at Swamp Hall and had it destroyed. This, coupled with du Pont's remarriage to a divorced second cousin in 1907, seriously strained relations between du Pont and other members of his family.\n\nDu Pont's relationship with his second wife, Mary (Alicia) Heyward Bradford (1875–1920), had already been the subject of family scandal, as family members had remarked on the close relationship of the two even before Alicia Bradford's marriage to du Pont's secretary, George Amory Maddox. Maddox and his wife lived close to du Pont and were frequently visited by him; du Pont and Bradford, who had borne a daughter in the meantime, left their spouses at around the same time and were married two weeks after Bradford's divorce was final. Du Pont's adoption of Bradford's daughter, Alicia Maddox, brought fresh gossip to the family, who largely rallied in support of his first wife, which in turn inspired du Pont to file several lawsuits against family members and friends for slander, all of which were dropped in due time.\n\nDu Pont gave Bradford a new home built on in Wilmington, Delaware. Construction of the Nemours Mansion and Gardens occurred between 1909 and 1910. The mansion is a five-story, 77-room, structure that was designed by renowned architects, Carrère and Hastings, who also designed the New York Public Library, New York City's Frick Mansion, and Whitehall, the Henry Flagler Museum in Palm Beach, Florida. The building looks like a French château and the architectural style is Louis XVI. The estate was named after the French town affiliated with his ancestor, Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours.\n\nWithin the short time of the marriage, Bradford bore two children for du Pont, neither of whom survived long.\n\nThrough the early 1910s, Alfred du Pont was engaged in fierce debate over the future of the family's business with Coleman and Pierre du Pont, whose support for du Pont's first wife had extended to building her and her children a home after their eviction from Swamp Hall. The struggle became bitter after Coleman du Pont decided to leave the company for health concerns in 1914.\n\nAs he was departing, ill and in need of money for another business transaction, Coleman du Pont decided to sell 20,000 shares in the company to key company employees, but when Alfred du Pont and Pierre du Pont disagreed on the proper pricing and handling of the transaction, wound up selling considerably more shares (over 77,000 shares combined of common and preferred stock) to Pierre du Pont and five associates, who had formed the DuPont Securities Company. This secret and swift transaction gave Pierre du Pont, 60 percent ownership of DuPont Securities, considerable control over the family business. While the value of the shares greatly increased due to the success of the company during World War I, Alfred du Pont and other minority shareholders launched a lawsuit against Pierre du Pont, alleging that he had acted as an agent of the E.I. du Pont de Nemours company, who should be rightful holders of the shares.\n\nThe suit was extremely well publicized and acrimonious. In 1916, shortly after company shareholders voted to remove Alfred du Pont from its board of directors, the United States District Court found that Pierre du Pont had operated in bad faith, ordering a stockholder vote to determine if the stockholders (aside from those who owned the disputed shares) wished to purchase the disputed shares. By a share ratio of 33:13, shareholders did not, and, accordingly, in 1918, the court dismissed the action. Alfred du Pont brought an appeal which ended unsuccessfully in March 1919.\n\nNo longer involved in running E.I. du Pont de Nemours, du Pont instead began to invest in newspapers, as a publisher of which he successfully opposed T. Coleman du Pont's bid for presidency and Henry A. du Pont's third run for Senate. According to the du Pont Trust, he also \"established an investment firm Nemours Trading Corporation, and an import-export business in New York\" and acquired a majority interest in the Delaware Trust Company.\n\nA bad business transaction had left him nearly bankrupt when, in January 1920, his second wife died. Missing an eye since his earlier accident, he was now also nearly deaf. But his life was about to change with his third marriage.\n\nDu Pont had been corresponding with Jessie Ball, 20 years his junior, since the time of their meeting in 1898 when she was 14. By 1920, Ball was an assistant principal at an elementary school in San Diego, California, and du Pont began courting her, at the same time divesting himself of assets and cutting back on spending. He wed Ball on January 22, 1921, and the couple returned to the East coast to settle into Nemours. The couple had no children of their own, but Ball du Pont accepted young Denise, a child du Pont had fostered with his second wife, as her own. She also helped mend rifts between du Pont and the estranged children of his first marriage.\n\nBall du Pont proved to be a great assistance to him as well in his work, as did her younger brother. Edward Ball and du Pont hit it off and Edward Ball began working for his brother-in-law in 1923, moving to Delaware where he was publicly named manager of the Clean Food Products Company. Privately, he was du Pont's confidential business partner and became a shrewd financier and caretaker of the du Pont de Nemours estate fortune.\n\nDu Pont and his third wife had already made several trips to Florida on their motor yacht, \"Nenemoosha\", when Pierre du Pont was named Tax Commissioner of Delaware in 1925. Harboring hard feelings against his cousin, Alfred du Pont and Jessie Ball du Pont moved to Jacksonville, Florida in 1926, where they established permanent residency. There, du Pont purchased of land on the St. Johns River and built a 25-room mansion and landscaped grounds, as well as a berth for the couple's motor yacht. Ball du Pont named the estate Epping Forest, after the Virginia plantation of Mary Ball Washington, George Washington's mother and Ball du Pont's relative. Edward Ball, too, relocated to Florida, to continue working with du Pont.\n\nIn Florida, du Pont made primarily small real estate investments at first, correctly fearing a drop in real estate values, before turning his attention to acquiring interest in banks. He acquired an interest in Florida National Bank (FNB) of Jacksonville, keeping it solvent during a bank run of 1929 by putting $15 million of his own money into an account. During the early 1930s, six other Florida National Banks were opened throughout Florida, including Lakeland and Bartow.\n\nDuring this time, du Pont was expanding his philanthropic activities. He personally funded a pension plan program for seniors in Delaware in 1929 and turned his attention to revitalizing Florida after the devastation of a 1926 hurricane and the Great Depression.\n\nBesides his interest in business, du Pont was an accomplished and passionate violinist and composer. Using friends and his factory workers from E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, he formed an orchestra that was named the \"Tankopanicum Musical Club\". According to the du Pont Trust, du Pont \"published nine pieces of music [during his lifetime], eight marches and one \"gavotte\", a French peasant dance, which was performed at the Grand Opera House in Wilmington in 1907.\" John Philip Sousa, who was a friend, performed one of his marches.\n\nWhen du Pont died in 1935 in Jacksonville, Florida at age 70, his estate was valued at over $56 million, which, after estate taxes of $30 million, left $26 million.\n\nThe vast majority of his fortune was left in testamentary trust with Jessie named as the principal trustee with complete discretion regarding use of any money, but in reality, she deferred business decisions to her brother, who took control of the assets, which included the large Florida landholdings of the St. Joe Company and industrial interests, including the Florida East Coast Railway. Jessie preferred to handle the philanthropic activities of the trust while Edward concentrated on making money. The fortune did not become a charitable trust until Jessie's death in 1970, which explains why $30 million in estate taxes were paid in 1935. The Alfred I. duPont Testamentary Trust's sole charitable beneficiary is the Nemours Foundation, which runs children's medical facilities in Delaware and Florida.\n\nThe trust was valued at $72.5 million in 1939; $2 billion in 1981; $4.5 billion in 2006.\n\nUnlike most of his family members, du Pont was not buried at the family's Du Pont de Nemours Cemetery. He is interred, along with his wife and brother-in law, in a large mausoleum on the grounds of the Alfred I. duPont Hospital for Children, one of the first projects created with his trust.\n\nBoth Nemours and Epping Forest have been restored to their original splendor. A public school in Jacksonville, the Alfred I. duPont Middle School, is located not far from his Epping Forest estate.\n\nAlfred du Pont was designated a Great Floridian by the Florida Department of State in the \"Great Floridians 2000 Program\". A plaque attesting to the honor is located at the entry gate to the Epping Forest estate in Jacksonville.\n\n"}
{"id": "25793644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25793644", "title": "Alwin C. Ernst", "text": "Alwin C. Ernst\n\nAlwin Charles Ernst (CPA) (July 26, 1881 - May 13, 1948) was an American businessman who co-founded the accounting firm of Ernst & Ernst in 1903 and who is credited with inventing management consulting.\n\nErnst was born on July 26, 1881 in Cleveland, Ohio. After finishing high school, Ernst took evening courses at a business college. In 1900, he went to work for The Audit Co. in Cleveland. Ernst died at age sixty-six on May 13, 1948 at the Lakeside Hospital in Cleveland.\n\nIn 1903, Ernst and his older brother Theodore founded the Ernst & Ernst bookkeeping service with an invested capital of $500. In October 1906, Theodore left the business.\n\nErnst expanded his business credentials by obtaining his Ohio Certified Public Accountant (CPA) certificate in 1910. Aggressive and ambitious, Ernst had already opened offices in Chicago by 1908 and in New York City by 1909.\n\nBy the time of his death on May 13, 1948, Ernst had grown the business to more than fifty offices in the United States and Canada. Ernst was buried at Knollwood Cemetery in Mayfield Heights, Ohio.\n\nAfter Ernst's death, his estate went to his four daughters and in August 1948 they sold most of his racing stable through an auction at Saratoga Race Course. A part of the dispersal, Algasir was purchased by F. Ambrose Clark for US$106,000.\n\nErnst owned and bred Thoroughbred racehorses, primarily those that ran in sprint races. Among his best horses was multiple stakes winner Alorter whose wins included the 1943 Cowdin Stakes. Ernst also bred Algasir but died before he could see the horse win the 1948 Cowdin and Flash Stakes and set a world record for four furlongs. Throughout most of his time in racing, Ernst's horses were trained by Jack Skirvin.\n\n"}
{"id": "40967163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40967163", "title": "Anti Monopoly Law of China", "text": "Anti Monopoly Law of China\n\nAnti Monopoly Law of China refers to the Anti-Monopoly Law of the People’s Republic of China, passed by the National People’s Congress on 30 August 2007, and implemented as of 1 August 2008. \n\nThe Anti-Monopoly Law (AML) of China in a narrow sense refers only to the Anti-Monopoly Law of the People’s Republic of China, passed by the National People’s Congress on 30 August 2007, and implemented as of 1 August 2008. In a broad sense it refers to the anti-monopoly legal system of China, including not only the AML, the post-AML ancillary legislative, and legal documents for the purpose of enforcing the AML, but also all pre-AML legislative and administrative documents with an anti-monopoly nature, as well as regulatory or administrative enforcement, private enforcement and judicial procedures. The definition used here refers to its broad meaning.\n\nIt is commonly recognized that the legislation of the anti-monopoly law in China was initiated in August 1987 when an AML drafting team was set up by the former Legal Affairs Bureau of the State Council to formally proceed to draft the AML. Prior to this, however, and following the economic reforms and opening in China, the State Council had already promulgated The Provisional Rules on Expediting Economic Alliance as early as 1 July 1980, aiming to “break down... territorial blockades and departmental barriers.” This was followed by The State Council Provisional Rules on the Launching and Protecting the Socialist Competition on 17 October 1980, aiming to “step by step reform the existing economic management system and actively promote and protect... smooth competition;\" a third document, the State Council Rules on Further Expediting and Protecting Socialist Competition, was released on 23 March 1986. These three documents served as the earliest form of anti-monopoly law and were intended to break down the historical planning of economic monopolies in the pre-1980’s era and to promote the initial and basic market economy and competition.\n\nSince August 1987 onward, the significant milestones of anti-monopoly law legislation in China are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe basic structure and framework of the anti-monopoly law of China up to date include the following legislations and the implementing legal documents (the box at the top contains the post-AML ancillary legal documents, the box in the middle contains the pre-AML laws and legal documents which are still in force, while the box at the bottom contains those laws and legal documents that are still in the processes of either drafting or soliciting opinion):\n\nThe doctrines of “\"illegal per se rule\"” (“\"per se rule\"”) and the “\"rule of reason\"” are two landmark and the most important legal theories in the history and development of the anti-trust law not only in its country of origin but also in many other countries and jurisdictions all over the world. The doctrines make a clear and straight definition in legal theory and can be efficiently and effectively implemented in practical enforcement. The fact that the doctrines in the United States have directly, effectively and successfully regulated the market situation and competitive practices, protected and promoted the market competition, and the anti-trust legal theory and practice have been consistently evolving and developing to cope with the market, economic and competition development, makes the doctrines significantly influential in the competition law legislation and enforcement in other countries and jurisdictions.\n\nLiterally, the doctrines of “per se rule” and the “rule of reason” can be found in the AML context as well as in the Supreme Court Judicial Opinion on one hand, but it is found otherwise in several court judgement on the other hand.\n\nDuring the processes of the AML legislation, the AML drafting team had not only studied and referenced to the greatest extent the statues of the EU competition law legislation as a result the basic structure and contents of the AML are as close and similar as the EU competition law, but had also studied the US antitrust legal theory and cases and consulted the US antitrust law experts. As such, the spirit of the doctrines of “\"per se rule\"” and the “\"rule of reason\"” indeed exists or influences the creation of the AML.\n\nIn the legislation, as far as the literal provisions of the AML is concerned, it is found that Articles 13 (horizontal agreement), 14 (vertical Agreement) and 17(1) (abuse of dominant market position) as one category using the literal word \"prohibit\" without any pre condition, while there is a condition of \"reasonable cause\" for the \"prohibition\" in Articles 17(2) to (6) (abuse of dominant market position without justifiable cause) as another category, as a result making literal difference that there should be different legislative purposes and intents as well as different legal meanings in the AML between the above two categories: with regard to the unconditional prohibition in the first category on one hand, any agreement or conduct breaching unconditional prohibition will then constitute a violation of law without regard to the result or effect caused by the violation, as such these unconditional prohibitions can be treated or argued to have the nature or character of \"\"illegal per se\" and accordingly it is an alternative expression of \"illegal per se rule\"\" in the AML; while with regard to Articles 17(2) to (6), on the other hand, the literal words \"reasonable cause\", given its obvious literal meaning, will then be an alternative expression of the \"\"rule of reason\".\n\nIn the judicial opinion, however, unlike the EU Court of First Instance in Case T-112/99 M6 and Others v Commission has expressly denied the existence of \"rule of reason\" in the EU competition law, China Supreme Court by far has yet clearly clarified and it has been hesitating in its Judicial Opinions on Several Issues Concerning the Application of Law in Proceeding Civil Cases Caused by Monopolistic Conducts (Fa Shi [2012] No. 5) (hereinafter the “SCJO”) if the \"illegal per se rule\" and the \"rule of reason\" exists in the anti-monopoly legal system of China or can be invoked in the practical enforcement cases or not, in other words, it still remains unclear if Articles 13, 14 and 17(1) as one category would have the nature of \"illegal per se\" and only Articles 17(2) to (6) as another category subject to the \"rule of reason\"\", or if there is any different legislative purpose and intent and different legal meaning or not between the two categories. As a result, also unlike the EU Court of First Instance in the same Case T-112/99 that has clearly stated that the pro- or anti-competition aspects should be examined within the scope of Article 85(3) of the EU Treaty, otherwise “Article 85(3) of the Treaty would lose much of its effectiveness if such an examination had to be carried out already under Article 85(1) of the Treaty”, China Supreme Court has further left unclear if the \"reasonable cause\" provided in Articles 17(2) to (6) is limited to the pre-set scope in Article 15 or all relevant pro- or anti-competition aspects of undertaking and the relevant market can be taken into account and examined according to the doctrine of \"\"rule of reason\"\".\n\nIn the Supreme Court Judicial Oipnions on Several Issues Concerning the Application of Law in Proceeding Anti-Monopoly Civil Dispute Cases (Soliciting Comment Version) Circulated by the China Supreme Court on 25 April 2011 (hereinafter the “SCJO SCV”), unlike in the literal provisions of the AML, it seems to draw no distinction as between Articles 13, 14 and 17(1) as one category Articles 17(2) to (6) as another category as initially drafted as in Article 8 of the SCJO : “The victims of the monopoly agreements shall have burden of proof against the alleged monopoly agreements for the effects of the exclusion or restriction of competition. The victims shall not have burden of proof against such monopoly agreements for the effects of the exclusion or restriction of competition if the monopoly agreements fall within the scope of \"Articles 13(1) to (5)\" or \"Articles 14(1) and (2)\", except for if the alleged undertakings to the said monopoly agreements are able to prove otherwise by the contrary evidence.” which could be read as that both Articles 13(1) to (5) or Articles 14(1) and (2) are subject to effect examination (\"rule of reason\").\n\nIn the official SCJO, however, Article 7 of the SCJO merely provides that “the defendant shall have burden of proof for no effect of exclusion and restriction of competition for acts falling within the monopoly agreements under Articles 13(1) to (5)”, which draws an obvious distinction between the formally equal Article 13, per se illegal unless defendant proves otherwise, and Article 14, subject to plaintiff’s burden of proof on effect (or rule of reason) examination. Article 8 of the SCJO also seems to have drawn an unclear distinguish on burden of proof between Article 17(1) from Articles 17(2) to (6) by saying “plaintiff shall [only] have burden of proof for the dominant position, and the abuse of such dominant position by the defendant in the relevant market”, alleged defendant monopoly conduct will be justified unless plaintiff proves illegal by effect examination (or rule of reason); this Article 8 seems to make AML Article 17(1) equal to Articles 17(2) to (6) that both are subject to the effect examination.\n\nThis topic, especially as to if there is any difference between Articles 13 and 14, remained unclear until the Ruibang vs. J&J case that Shanghai High Court made a very judgement on 1 August 2013 in which including an analysis on the interrelations between AML Articles 13 and 14. Shanghai High Court examined and concluded that “the effects of exclusion and restriction of competition are the constitutive and necessary factors in the examination of monopoly agreement with clause of restricting the minimum resale price as referred to in Article 14 of the AML”. From this ruling and the position that Shanghai High Court allowed both plaintiff and defendant to submit and cross examine the reports prepared by the economic experts on the relevant markets, J&J’s products and its market share, the effects of pro- and anti-competition of the alleged vertical agreement in question with restriction on the minimum resale price, etc., it appears that Shanghai High Court is rather in favour of agreeing to conduct a comprehensive examination of all related aspects in particular of the pro- and anti-competition effects of \"Article 14 agreements\" in accordance with the doctrine of the “rule of reason”.\n\nNonetheless the above, however, in the administrative enforcement, it appears that the NDRC is rather apt to apply the doctrine of “illegal per se rule” directly to the first category (i.e., AML Articles 13, 14 and 17(1)) because of the low difficulty and costs and easy proceeding to apply the “per se rule” in the administrative enforcement of the AML. This is evidenced by the most recent four major cases that NDRC announced during January to August 2013 because neither examination nor analysis on the “reason” or “reasonable cause” had ever been made to the effects of restriction or exclusion of competition by the alleged monopolistic conducts. Albeit this has been questioned, NDRC appears to follow and carry on the strategy and tactics that were adopted in the US in the early stage of the enforcement of Sherman Act at the turn of 19th and 20th centuries to put a direct “\"illegal per se\"” effect to the AML Articles 13 and 14. This makes very important sense because it is drawing a boundary line as between the “\"illegal per se\"” conducts and agreement and those conducts and agreement with “reasonable cause”.\n\nIn a summary, until the Supreme Court clearly interprets this important issue by further judicial opinions or rulings, whether or not the unconditional prohibition in Articles 13 and 14 would equally have similar nature of \"illegal per se\" and how to distinguish Articles 13 and 14 them from the \"reasonable cause\" in Articles 17(2) to (6), still remain an open topic in the anti-monopoly legal system in China.\n\nThe AML adopts in Article 15 the same doctrine of “legal applicable exceptions” as in Article 81(3) of the EU Treaty. Unlike the EU competition law that the EU Commission has promulgated and implemented various specific regulations for the purpose of implementing and enforcing Article 81(3), however, several fundamental issues such as the specific contents and criteria of the “legal exceptions”, who has the authority or being authorized to stipulate the implementing rules, by the NPC Standing Committee, the State Council, or the NDRC or SAIC, still remain unclear in the anti-monopoly legal system. In private enforcement, the contents and criteria of the proof of evidences for “reasonable cause” and whether the assessment and comparison between pro-competition vs. anti-competition are limited within the preset scope of AML Article 15 only or can include all reasonable causes in all relevant aspects or elements beyond AML Article 15, also remain unclear.\n\nThere is no precedent case law in China. The judgements, especially those methodological or judicial examinations in the judicial rulings or opinions made by the high court or the Supreme Court in the landmark cases, are commonly studied by law practitioners, academic researchers and sometimes indirectly as a principle or guideline invoked by other courts in the subsequent cases.\n\nIn 2011, Huawei brought two separate litigations against the same group of defendants of Inter Digital Corporation, Inc. and its affiliated companies (IDC). The first case was brought to Shenzhen Intermediate Court for the judicial ruling on the royalty rate by Huawei to IDC for certain patent licenses ([2011] Shen Zhong Fa Zhi Min Chu Zi No. 857, Case 857) and the second on was also brought to Shenzhen Intermediate Court for damages caused by IDC’s abuse of dominant market position ([2011] Shen Zhong Fa Zhi Min Chu Zi No. 858, Case 858). Both cases were appealed to the Guangdong Provincial High Court.Guangdong Provincial High Court made the final judgement on the first Huawei v. IDC case (Case No. 857) On 16 October 2013 ([2013] Yue Gao Fa Min San Zhong Zi No 305, Judgement 305) and on the second one (Case 858) on 21 October 2013 ([2013] Yue Gao Fa Min San Zhong Zi No 306, Judgement 306). Upon the petition of both Huawei and IDC, both cases were not publicly heard due to the large amount of sensitive commercial and technical information and dada.\n\nThe two judgements made by Guangdong High Court are published in which all sensitive information and data are redacted. Both cases and the two judgements, usually treated as one combined case by Huawei against IDC, have been appraised by the China Courts as one of the best 10 AML cases by then, while commented by the public as very controversial. The following can be considered:\n\n(1) In Judgement 305 (Case 857): there is an extremely lack of (1) judicial analysis to justify and support the ruling on choices of Chinese law and the forum jurisdiction of the China court in a royalty rate case arising from, or at least substantially depending on the interpretation of, royalty policy and rules of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI, which is organized and governed by French law; (2) legal grounds under the current Chinese law on the [discretionary] right of the court in determining a non-tort (or infringement), non-breach of contract, but a pure commercial term as well as its other judicial rulings.\n\n(2) On 14 April 2014, IDC filed a petition to the China Supreme Court for retrial and seeking a dismissal of this judgement or at least a higher, market-based royalty rate. It is currently pending with China Supreme Court.\n\n(3) In Judgement 306 (Case 858), this is rather an “abuse of intellectual property right” case under AML Article 55 than an “abuse of dominant market position” case under AML Article 17, Guangdong High Court finally upheld the initial judgement to judge IDC to compensate Huawei RMB20 millions. this final Ruling covered two AML aspects both of which are not only jurisprudence important but also leading edge. The first aspect is the “extraterritoriality” under AML Article 2, while the second aspect is that the Ruling appears to make use of the “abuse of dominant market position” under AML Article 17 for the “abuse of intellectual property right” case under AML Article 55. (1) AML Article 2 is itself too general and vague which merely empowers the right and offers possibility to apply “extraterritorial jurisdiction”. As to how to apply such “extraterritorial jurisdiction”, the detailed rules, conditions and criteria in the application, neither AML nor the Supreme Court has yet made any clear implementing regulations, interpretation or guideline, but would rather merely rely on the discretionary power of the competent court. Taking these into account in conjunction with the complicated factors of either or both private and public international laws that may be associated with the application of “extraterritorial jurisdiction” as well as that many other courts may possibly follow after this Ruling to apply the “extraterritorial jurisdiction” in other cases, it appears to be desirable and urgent for the Supreme Court to make judicial ruling as to how to appropriately and delicately apply the “extraterritorial jurisdiction”. (2) Because this Ruling may be a modeling precedent of making use of the “abuse of dominant market position” under AML Article 17 for the “abuse of intellectual property right” case under AML Article 55 or even it is merely an “abuse of dominant market position” case involving intellectual property right elements, how to treat and balance the prohibition of “abuse of intellectual property right” verse the lawful proprietary, exclusive or monopolistic right of the intellectual property right as well as verse the legal exception of application of the AML provided in the same AML Article 55, and how to treat the anti-monopoly provisions provided by the AML verse the lawful proprietary, exclusive or monopolistic right of the intellectual property right provided by intellectual property laws such as Patent Law, all of such complicated and delicate issues remain unclear and uncertain pending the Supreme Court judicial opinion, in order to not only protect competition and prohibit monopoly but also to protect the intellectual property right as well as its lawful proprietary, exclusive or monopolistic right.\n\nNDRC, upon Huawei’s petition (or informant), launched the formal AML investigation against IDC in June 2013. With the high pressure from the NDRC, IDC eventually reached a private settlement with NDRC by making certain commitments leading to NDRC withdrawing the investigation in May 2014. It is widely believed that both courts (of Shenzhen Municipality and Guangdong Province) and NDRC played both judicial and administrative sticks against IDC to support Huawei’s launching and development in the US market.\n\nThis is the first judicial case and judgement of vertical monopoly agreement under AML Article 14.2, as well as the first case that the High Court (of appeal) overruled the judgement in favour of the defendant made by the Intermediate Court (of first instance).\n\nThe fact of the case is simple and straightforward: Ruibang Yonghe Technology Co., Ltd. (\"Ruibang\"), the plaintiff in this case, is an authorized distributor of Johnson & Johnson (Shanghai) Medical Equipment Co., Ltd. and Johnson & Johnson (China) Medical Equipment Co., Ltd. (\"J&J\"), the defendants in the case, in the authorized territory under a distribution agreement. Ruibang sued J&J to the Shanghai Pudong New District Court for J&J's partially withdraw of Ruibang's distributorship, taking off Ruibang's distributor deposit and eventually refusing to supply by reason of Ruibang's breach of lowest re-sell price in the unauthorized territory. Both courts (of first instance and appeal) made similar judicial analysis in term of AML Article 14.2, Shanghai New District Court made a judgement on 18 May 2012 (Judgement (2010) Hu Yi Zhong Min Wu (Zhi) Chi Zi No 169) in favour of J&J on the ground of plaintiff's insufficient evidence. Ruibang appealed to the Shanghai High Court and submitted a very comprehensive expert affidavit made by a professor of China Foreign Economic and Trade University, as a defending fight back J&J also submitted the a comprehensive expert affidavit made by a professor of Shanghai Finance and Economic University. The Shanghai High Court conclusively made a judgement on 1 August 2013 (Judgement (2012) Hu Gao Min San (Zhi) Zhong Zi No 63) that overruled the judgement made by the Shanghai Pudong New District Court ruling that J&J had violated AML Article 14.2 and be liable for the judged damages.\n\nThis case and its final judgement offer some observation:\n\n(1) Under the AML, the vertical agreement is subject to “rule of reason”, namely, it is not “per se illegal” but very likely “per se challengeable” and “effect” test is necessary to assess if a vertical agreement breaches the AML, or not.\n\n(2) Four elements in the “effect” test: (1) sufficient competition, (2) market position, (3) motivation, and (4) effects of competition restriction and competition promotion.\n\n(3) The application of the doctrine of maxim semper necessitas probandi incumbit ei qui agit in the AML private enforcement case.\n\nThis is a case of the “abuse of dominant market position”, the first AML private enforcement case that was initially brought to and examined by the provincial High Court, then appealed to and finally judged by the Supreme Court, and by far, the Supreme Court’s written judgement is the best and most professional, both judicially and technically, judicial judgement of its kind ever amongst all AML cases in China. Given the judicial power and nature of the Supreme Court, this judgement established and reaffirmed several very important judicial rules with precedent case law effect insofar as the private enforcement of AML is concerned.\n\nThese important judicial rules include:\n\n(1) reaafirms the doctrine of semper necessitas probandi incumbit ei qui agit (he who alleges must prove) with regard to the allocation of onus probandi (burden of proof) in the AML judicial case\n\n(2) defining relevant market is not a purpose but instead rather a methodology in assessing the relevant undertaking’s market power and the influence power of the alleged monopoly conduct on to the competition, as such it is not compulsory to specifically and exactly define the relevant market in every AML litigation of abuse of dominant market position\n\n(3) an HMT (hypothetical monopoly test) based on tools of SSNIP (small but significant and non-transitory increase in price) or SSNDQ (small but significant and non-transitory decrease in quality) may be conducted in defining the relevant market but should be conducted carefully with cautious\n\n(4) the related market situation and technology development trend post the litigation may be taken into consideration in defining the relevant market\n\n(5) market share is not the only one element in concluding dominant market position\n\n(6) multi elements should be comprehensively evaluated in defining the dominant market position, including but not limited to: (1) the market share of the undertaking in question and the competition situation of the said market; (2) the control ability of the undertaking in question in the said market; (3) the financial and technical status of the undertaking in question; (4) the degree of dependence of other undertakings on the undertaking in question; and (5) the degree of difficulty to access to the relevant markey by other undertakings\n\n(7) if the relevant market is clearly defined and the alleged undertaking does not have dominant market position, normally it is not necessary to conduct an abuse behavior analysis and it can be directly concluded that such undertaking did not have abuse behavior; however, if neither the boundary of the relevant market nor the dominant market position of the alleged undertaking is clear or if the alleged undertaking had dominant market position, “effect examination” may be carried out so as to determine if the alleged conduct was lawful or not\n\n(8) the “tie-in” under the AML is illegal if it meets all of these criteria: (1) the base product and the “tie-in” product are independent to each other, (2) the undertaking has dominant market position in the base product market, (3) certain enforcement implemented upon the buyer who became lack of other options but to accept the tie-in product, (4) the tie-in could not be justified, was contrary to the commercial or consumer practice or ignored the functionalities of the products, and (5) the tie-in gave rise to negative effect to the competition\n\n(9) if an undertaking successfully proved the alleged monopoly conduct was justifiable under AML does not mean such undertaking has automatically and same successfully proved the monopoly conduct has not caused negative effect of exclusion or restriction of competition.\n\n7.1 It is commonly known and recognized that the investment by foreign investors in the form of M&A (including concentration of undertakings) is subject to the government approval in China which is mainly compromising of the following three parts in accordance with the relevant PRC laws and regulations:\n\n7.2 In which the thresholds and roadmap for the AML Notification and Review insofar as related to the concentration of undertakings can be summarized as follows:\n7.3 As far as the security review is concerned, according to the related laws and regulations concerning security review, such review may be a separate procedure with regard to the foreign investment in China, but may also be a part of or post-AML notification and review procedures for the foreign investment in China. The procedures and roadmap of the security review can be summarized as follows:\n\n7.4 The Legal Liabilities for the violation of the AML concerning the concentration of undertakings are summarized as follows:\n\n8.1 Under the AML, the hierarchy of the China anti monopoly enforcement and regulatory authorities is as follows:\n\n8.2 In accordance with the State Council General Office Notice regarding the State Council Anti Monopoly Committee’s Key Responsibilities and Members (Guo Ban Fa [2008] No 104), The State Council Anti Monopoly Committee was established on 28 July 2008, whose key responsibilities include: research and draft competition policy, organizing to investigate and evaluate the general market competition situation and publish the evaluation report, produce and promulgate ant monopoly guidelines, coordinate the anti monopoly enforcement, as well as other duties stipulated by the State Council. Its members include：\n\nDirector General:\n\nWang Yang, Vice Prime Minister\n\nDeputy Director General:\n\nChen De Min, Minister, MOFCOM\n\nZhang Ping, Commissioner, NDRC\n\nZhou Bo Hua, Director General, SAIC\n\nBi Jing Quan, Deputy Secretary General of the State Council\n\nMembers:\n\nZhang Mao, Vice Commissioner, NDRC\n\nOu Xin Qin, Vice Minister, MIIT\n\nYao Zeng Ke, Vice Minister, Ministry of Supervisory\n\nZhang Shao Chun, Vice Minister, MOF\n\nGao Hong Feng, Vice Minister, MOC\n\nMa Xiu Hong, Vice Minister, MOFCOM\n\nHuang Shu He, Vice Commissioner, SASAC\n\nZhong You Ping, Deputy Director General, SAIC\n\nZhang Qin, Deputy Director General, SIPO\n\nZhang Qiong, Legal Office of the State Council (and also as the Head of the Anti Monopoly Expert Panel)\n\nCai E’sheng, Vice Chairman, CBRC\n\nGui Min Jie, Vice Chairman, CSRC\n\nWei Ying Ning, Vice Chairman, CIRC\n\nWang Yu Min, Vice Chairman, SERC\n\nSecretary General: Ma Xiu Hong\n\nDirector of General Office: Shang Ming, Director, MOFCOM AMB\n\n8.3 The Organizational Structure and Responsibilities of the China AML Enforcement and Regulatory Authorities\n\nNPC: http://www.npc.gov.cn/wxzl/gongbao/node_4508.htm\n\nMOFCOM: http://fldj.mofcom.gov.cn/?566796080=822957196\n\nNDRC: http://jjs.ndrc.gov.cn/default.htm\n\nSAIC: http://www.saic.gov.cn/fldyfbzdjz/\n\n"}
{"id": "57245969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57245969", "title": "Ariadne Getty", "text": "Ariadne Getty\n\nAriadne Getty (formerly Williams; born 1962) is an Italian-born American philanthropist, businesswoman, and film producer.\n\nGetty was born in Rome, Italy to Sir John Paul Getty, a philanthropist, and Abigail Harris, a water polo champion. She spent a lot of her childhood outside of Siena. She is a member of the Getty family and is the sister of John Paul Getty III, Mark Getty, and Aileen Getty and the half sister of Tara Getty. Her parents divorced in 1964 and her father remarried twice; first to Talitha Pol, a Dutch actress and model, and later to Victoria Holdsworth. She is the paternal granddaughter of billionaire J. Paul Getty, the founder of Getty Oil Company, and Ann Rork Light, an actress. Getty's grandfather also served as her godfather at her baptism in the Catholic Church.\n\nGetty attended Bennington College.\n\nGetty serves as the CEO of her son's fashion line \"August Getty Atelier\" and of her daughter's lifestyle brand \"Strike Oil\".\n\nIn 2007 Getty produced the British comedy-thriller film \"The Baker\". In 2010 she worked on the survivor-thriller film \"127 Hours\".\n\nIn 2016 Getty joined the National Board of Directors of GLAAD. She was a speaker at the third annual GLAAD Summit on September 30, 2016 at the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Getty is passionate about LGBT rights, climate change, and women's rights, making most of her time and financial contributions to GLAAD and the United Nations foundation. Much of Ariadne's charitable work stems from her personal history; both of her children, Natalia (Nats) and August are gay, and much of Ariadne's philanthropic efforts go towards working with the LGBTQ community.\n\nGetty serves with Queen Rania of Jordan, Muhammad Yunus, Kofi Annan, and Ted Turner as an inaugural board member of the Better World Fund, a nonprofit that provides educational and advocacy support for the United Nations and causes regarding refugees and gender inequality. Through her work with Better World Fund, Getty has traveled to Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to visit refugee camps with stakeholders to provide better living conditions for refugees.\n\nIn September 2018, GLAAD presented the inaugural Ariadne Getty Ally Award to Alyssa Milano at its 49th anniversary gala in San Francisco; the Los Angeles LGBT Center honored Getty with the Rand Schrader Distinguished Scholar Vanguard Award; and she became a board member of the Gay Men's Chorus of Los Angeles. \n\nGetty founded the Fuserna Foundation in 2004, which she later remained the Ariadne Getty Foundation. She currently serves as its president and executive director. The foundation is a major donor to the Los Angeles LGBT Center. In October 2017 it held a benefit concert that raised over $100,000 to help prevent bullying of LGBTQ youth. At the 2018 World Economic Forum in Davos Getty announced that her foundation would be giving $15 million to GLAAD to reverse the erosion of LGBTQ acceptance and help move the global LGBTQ community forward.. A survey by the Harris Poll and GLAAD reported that LGBTQ acceptance in the United States had declined for the first time since the poll was first conducted. In 2018 Getty fulfilled her promise, donating $15 million for the GLAAD Media Institute, which seeks to spread LGBTQ acceptance by training journalists and people in the Hollywood film and television industries how to advocate for and tell the stories of LGBTQ people. The Ariadne Getty Foundation and GLAAD partnered in hosting the panel \"Progress in Peril: How Business, Philanthropy and Media Can Lead to Achieving 100% Acceptance for LGBTQ People\" at the World Economic Forum.\n\nGetty married Justin Williams, an actor, and had two children; fashion designer August Williams and fashion model Natalia Williams, who are both gay. She has said that her children inspired her passion for LGBTQ rights activism and philanthropy. She and Williams later divorced. She is in a long-term relationship with producer Louie Rubio.\n\nGetty criticized the 2017 crime thriller film \"All the Money in the World\", which focused on the 1973 kidnapping of her brother John Paul Getty III when he was sixteen years old, saying the film incorrectly depicted her family as obsessed with wealth. She also defended her grandfather, J. Paul Getty, saying that her grandfather was a loving and involved person in her life and did not behave as the film portrayed him.\n\nIn 2018 Getty threatened to take legal action against FX for their series \"Trust\", which retells the story of her brother's 1973 kidnapping, saying that the series defames her family for implying they were complicit in the kidnapping.\n\nGetty is portrayed by Lucy Gentili in the 2018 American anthology drama television series \"Trust\".\n"}
{"id": "48442829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48442829", "title": "Association of Cost and Management Accountants", "text": "Association of Cost and Management Accountants\n\nThe Association of Cost and Management Accountants is a professional accounting body, a non-profit organization in Nigeria. It was established to promote and encourage the study and enhance knowledge and efficiency in the development of the art and science of cost and management accountancy. As of December 2014 the Association had 3,916 members and 1,962 registered students. \nThe association was established on 15 June 2006 under the Corporate Affairs Commission, Nigeria sequel to the approval of the Council meeting of\nthe Chartered Institute of Cost and Management Accountants held on 4 March 2006. In April 2006, a technical committee was formed for the intention of preparation of the association's establishment proposal documents for submission to the Corporate Affairs Commission, Nigeria. The technical committee submitted the association's formation proposal documents in May 2006 to the Corporate Affairs Commission, Nigeria and the Corporate Affairs Commission, Nigeria approved the establishment of the association in June 2006.The association is an offshoot of the chartered institute of cost and management accountants.\n\nThe membership of the association consists of two categories:\n\n\nTo be admitted to membership of the association, candidate must generally complete three years period of relevant work experience and passed a series of examinations of the association.\n\nThe association gives direct membership to holders of Associate Membership or Fellow Member's certificates of recognized professional accounting body from any country.\n\n"}
{"id": "288692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288692", "title": "Astoria, Queens", "text": "Astoria, Queens\n\nAstoria is a middle-class and commercial neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens, bounded by the East River and is adjacent to three other Queens neighborhoods: Long Island City, Sunnyside (bordering at Northern Boulevard), and Woodside (bordering at 50th Street). It is located in Community Board 1, and is patrolled by the New York City Police Department's 114th Precinct. , Astoria has an estimated population of 78,793.\n\nThe area now known as Astoria was originally called Hallett's Cove, after its first landowner William Hallet, who settled there in 1652 with his wife, Elizabeth Fones. Beginning in the early 19th century, affluent New Yorkers constructed large residences around 12th and 14th streets, an area that later became known as Astoria Village (now Old Astoria). Hallett's Cove, incorporated on April 12, 1839 and previously founded by fur merchant Stephen A. Halsey, was a noted recreational destination and resort for Manhattan's wealthy.\n\nThe area was renamed for John Jacob Astor, then the wealthiest man in America with a net worth of more than $40 million, in order to persuade him to invest in the neighborhood. He only invested $500, but the name stayed nonetheless, as a bitter battle over naming the village finally was won by Astor's supporters and friends. From Astor's summer home in Hell Gate, Manhattan—on what is now East 87th Street near York Avenue—he could see across the East River the new Long Island village named in his honor. Astor, however, never actually set foot in Astoria.\n\nDuring the second half of the 19th century, economic and commercial growth brought increased immigration from German settlers, mostly furniture and cabinet makers. One such settler was Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg, patriarch of the Steinway family who founded the piano company Steinway & Sons in 1853, which today is a worldwide piano company. Later on, the Steinways built a sawmill and foundry, as well as a streetcar line. The family eventually established Steinway Village for their workers, a company town that provided school instruction in German as well as English. Part of the motivation for locating the Steinway factory in Queens was to keep the workers isolated from the ferment of labor organizing and radicalism occurring in other parts of New York, notably the Lower East Side.\n\nAstoria and several other surrounding villages, including Steinway, were incorporated into Long Island City in 1870. Long Island City remained an independent municipality until it was incorporated into New York City in 1898. The area's farms were turned into housing tracts and street grids to accommodate the growing number of residents.\n\nAstoria also figured prominently in early American filmmaking as one of its initial centers. That heritage is preserved today by the Museum of the Moving Image and Kaufman Astoria Studios.\n\nToday, much of the Astoria waterfront is being redeveloped and underutilized industrial sites in forgotten historic neighborhoods are being revived. Hallets Point is one of five former industrial sites on the waterfront being transformed, and will bring seven new mixed-use residential towers, including 2,000 market-rate units and 500 affordable units, into the neighborhood. The development will also include new waterfront parks, a supermarket, retail shops and restaurants, and two new schools. These waterfront projects were designed by a New York architectural firm, in conjunction with private developers, city agencies, and landscape architects.\n\nBased on data from the 2010 United States Census, the population of Astoria was 78,793, a decrease of 10,329 (11.6%) from the 89,122 counted in 2000. Covering an area of , the neighborhood had a population density of .\n\nThe racial makeup of the neighborhood was 49.2% (38,749) Non-Hispanic White, 4.5% (3,553) African American, 0.2% (137) Native American, 16.2% (12,759) Asian, 0.0% (30) Pacific Islander, 1.2% (936) from other races, and 2.2% (1,714) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 26.5% (20,915) of the population.\n\nAstoria was first settled by the Dutch, English, and Germans in the 17th century. Many Irish settled in the area during the waves of Irish immigration into New York City during the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\nItalians were the next significant immigrants in Astoria, and numerous Italian restaurants, delis, bakeries, and pizza shops are found throughout Astoria, particularly in the Ditmars Boulevard area.\n\nJews were also a significant ethnic and religious group. The Astoria Center of Israel, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, was built in 1925 after outgrowing the former Congregation Mishkan Israel, which was built in 1904.\n\nThe 1960s saw a large increase of Greek population from mainland Greece, and after 1974, there was an influx of Greeks from Cyprus. This cultural imprint can be seen in the numerous Greek restaurants, bakeries, tavernas, and cafes, as well as several Greek Orthodox churches. While the population of Greeks in Astoria was 22,579 in 1980, it dropped to 18,127 by 1990 due to decreased immigration and lower birth rates. Greek organizations in the area include the Hellenic American Action Committee (HANAC) and the Federation of Hellenic Societies of Greater New York. Recent economic issues in Greece have seen a resurgence of Greek immigration.\n\nAbout 20,000 Maltese also live in Astoria, and although this population has steadily been emigrating from the area, there are still many Maltese, supported by the Maltese Center of New York.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1970s, the neighborhood's Muslim population grew from earlier immigrants from Lebanon to also include people from Kosovo, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Egypt, Syria, Yemen, Tunisia, Morocco, and Algeria. In the 1990s, Steinway Street between 28th Avenue and Astoria Boulevard saw the establishment of many Arabic shops, restaurants, and cafes, which is unofficially called \"Little Morocco\", due to the amount of Arabs (Predominantly Moroccans) residing there.\n\nCroatians from Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina have been numerous since the 1960s and their numbers continue to grow. New populations of South American and Balkan peoples have seen significant growth since the early 1990s, including a large population of Brazilians, who reside in the 36th Avenue area. Albanians, Bulgarians, Serbs, and Bosnians have also shown a rise in numbers. Many Spanish Americans live in Astoria, with most of them being of Galician heritage from Northwestern Spain; this community is supported by the Casa Galicia (Galicia House) and the Circulo Español (Spanish Circle).\n\nAt one time, many Bangladeshi Americans settled in Astoria, but by 2001, many of them had moved to Metro Detroit. A survey of an Astoria-area Bengali language newspaper estimated that, in an 18-month period until March 2001, 8,000 Bangladeshi people moved to the Detroit area. However, as of 2010, the Bangladeshi American community in Astoria has been increasing.\n\nPopulation losses in Queens were particularly high in immigrant neighborhoods such as Astoria, which suffered the greatest population loss in the city, losing more than 10,000 residents between the years 2000 and 2010.\n\nThere is some debate as to what constitutes the geographic boundaries of Astoria. The neighborhood was part of Long Island City prior to the latter's incorporation into the City of New York in 1898.\n\nThe area south of Astoria was called Ravenswood, and traditionally, Broadway was considered the border between the two. Today, however, many residents and businesses south of Broadway identify themselves as Astorians for convenience or status, since Long Island City has historically been considered an industrial area, and Ravenswood is now mostly a low-income neighborhood. Some of the thoroughfares have lent their names to unofficial terms for the areas they serve. For instance, the eastern end of Astoria, with Steinway Street as its main thoroughfare, is sometimes referred to simply as \"Steinway\", and the northern end around Ditmars Boulevard is sometimes referred to as \"Ditmars\", with their convergence point bearing the neighborhood name \"Ditmars-Steinway\". Banners displayed on lamp posts along 30th Avenue refer to it as \"the Heart of Astoria\".\n\nRavenswood is the name for the strip of land bordering the East River in Long Island City, and is part of Astoria.\n\nThe land was acquired in 1814 by Col. George Gibbs, a businessman from New York City who developed it. Gibbs died in 1833, and the land was divided into nine parcels by three developers. From 1848, there were several mansions built on this land, but the high class housing did not survive. The spring of 1853 brought the opening of a post office of its own and country store \"run by Messrs. Moore & Luyster, and Mr. Samuel H. Moore of that firm received the appointment of postmaster, handling the mails in a corner of the store.\"\n\nRavenswood, unlike Astoria, never became a village; there was no disposition at any time to become independent as there was insufficient population or commercial activity to justify such a move. Ravenswood remained an exclusive hamlet within the Town of Newtown until its absorption with the Village of Astoria and the hamlets of Hunters Point, Blissville, Sunnyside, Dutch Kills, Steinway, Bowery Bay and Middleton in Newtown Township into Long Island City in 1870. In 1870, Ravenswood, along with several other hamlets and the Village of Astoria, merged to form Long Island City.\n\nIn 1875, the first commercial buildings were erected, and the mansions were converted into offices and boarding houses. In 1879, the Long Island Terra Cotta Company was established in Ravenswood, by Rudolph Franke. By 1900, Ravenswood was heavily commercial, and remains so to this day. However, the name has retained its residential character through the New York City Housing Authority project that was built in 1949 to 1951 with this name between 34th and 36th Avenues, and 12th and 24th Streets.\n\nThe name also identifies the large electric power station established along the shore of the East River, just south of the Roosevelt Island Bridge. The Ravenswood No. 3 Generating Station was built by Con Edison in 1963-65 but, due to deregulation, has subsequently been owned by KeySpan, National Grid, and TransCanada. The power plant can generate approximately 2,500 megawatts of power, which is about 20 percent of New York City's electricity demand.\n\nDitmars is a middle class section of Astoria bounded by Bowery Bay to the north, 31st Street to the east (boundary with the adjacent neighborhood of Steinway, with which Ditmars is sometimes confused), 23rd Avenue to the south and the East River on the west. The adjacent Steinway neighborhood was largely developed as a company town by the Steinway & Sons piano company, and included houses and public facilities that were also available to non-employees. However, the Ditmars neighborhood was not included in the Steinway & Sons company housing and related facilities project. Ditmars is considered to be a popular neighborhood among young professionals and in some real estate references the adjacent neighborhoods of Ditmars and Steinway are joined as a single \"Ditmars-Steinway\" reference. The neighborhood takes its name from Ditmars Boulevard which was named in honor of Raymond Lee Ditmars, (1876–1942) famed American herpetologist and curator of Reptiles of the New York Zoological Society at the Bronx Zoo.\n\nAstoria Heights, or Upper Ditmars, is bounded by Hazen Street to the west, La Guardia Airport to the east, Bowery Bay to the north, and Astoria Boulevard and the Grand Central Parkway to the south. It is mostly a quiet middle class neighborhood of one- and two-family private homes.\n\nThe Riker-Lent Homestead is near the north end of Astoria Heights at 78-03 19th Road. Built around 1655 by Abraham Riker under a patent from Nieuw Nederland's last governor, Peter Stuyvesant, it is believed to be the oldest remaining dwelling in New York City still used as a residence. There is an adjacent family cemetery. The Smiths, who bought the house in 1975, have been restoring it for many years. The annual public tour was given usually in mid-September by the owners for the benefit of a local historical society, but has since ceased to occur.\n\nBefore Prohibition, there were dance halls, picnic areas, and amusement park rides at North Beach.\n\nRagtime composer Scott Joplin is buried across the Grand Central Parkway at St. Michael's Cemetery, which occasionally holds ragtime concerts.\n\nThe Rikers Island Bridge to New York City's main prison, Rikers Island, runs from the north end of Hazen Street. Technically, Rikers Island is in the Bronx since New York City took it over from Long Island City in 1884, after it had annexed the South Bronx but before it consolidated Queens. However, like Astoria Heights, Rikers Island gets its mail from the East Elmhurst (Zip code 11370) station of the Flushing Post Office.\n\n\nAstoria is served by the , which run along the elevated BMT Astoria Line above 31st Street, as well as the local of the New York City Subway, which stop at the 36th Street, Steinway Street and 46th Street stations on the underground IND Queens Boulevard Line. The nearest Long Island Rail Road station is Woodside station on the Main Line, where there is a connection to the at 61st Street–Woodside.\n\nAstoria is also served by MTA Regional Bus Operations' routes.\n\nThe primary streets running north-south are Vernon Boulevard along the East River; 21st Street, a major traffic artery with a mix of residential, commercial and industrial areas; 31st Street; and Steinway Street (named for Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg (later Henry E. Steinway), founder of the piano company Steinway & Sons), a major commercial street with many retail stores, and a very prominent Middle Eastern section between Astoria Boulevard and 28th Avenue, the area is full of Middle Eastern food restaurants which present some local types of food from Lebanon, Egypt and Morocco, most food in these restaurants is Halal to suit the Muslim residents who are main customers in this neighborhood.\n\nAstoria has been served by NYC Ferry's Astoria route since August 2017.\n\nBecause of its location, Astoria is conveniently served by several nearby New York City hospitals and medical centers, as well as FDNY EMS service. As of 2014, there are 5 FDNY firehouses in Astoria. Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens is the only true hospital medical center in the neighborhood. It operates 24/7 and is part of the Mount Sinai Health System network. Other nearby hospitals include Elmhurst Hospital Center in nearby Elmhurst, as well as Forest Hills Hospital (part of Northwell Health) in Forest Hills.\n\nThe New York City Department of Education operates Astoria's public schools.\n\nAstoria also has several private schools, many of which offer parochial education:\n\nQueens Borough Public Library operates three branches within Astoria's ZIP codes:\n\nAdditionally, Astoria is the final resting place of New York City mobster Frank Costello as well as ragtime composer and musician Scott Joplin. Both Costello and Joplin are interred at St. Michael's Cemetery. The cemetery hosts annual public events and concerts to celebrate Joplin's musical legacy, including a Joplin retrospective.\n\nThe neighborhood has often been featured in various media; in film and television, the area is either featured as Astoria or as a setting for another location in New York City.\n\nFilm\n\nGaming\n\nLiterature\n\nMusic'\n\nTelevision\n\n"}
{"id": "32310303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32310303", "title": "Belinda Mulrooney", "text": "Belinda Mulrooney\n\nBelinda Mulrooney (1872–1967) was an entrepreneur and purportedly the \"richest woman in the Klondike\". She made one fortune in the Klondike Gold Rush, lost it, and amassed a second, which lasted most of her life.\n\nMulrooney was born in Ireland. When she was young, her family either emigrated to Pennsylvania, where her father worked as a miner in Scranton, or sent her to live with relatives there. She set out on her own and operated a sandwich stand during the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. With her profits, she traveled to San Francisco in 1894 to set up an ice cream parlor. Undaunted when she lost everything in a fire, she found employment as a stewardess on a Pacific Coast Steamship Company ship plying its route from California to Alaska, earning extra money by selling necessities and luxuries to the passengers. Discovery of gold at Juneau, Alaska motivated her to move north in 1896. Then came the Klondike Gold Rush to the east, in Canada.\n\nInstead of seeking her fortune as a prospector, Mulrooney bought supplies of \"silk underwear, bolts of cotton cloth and hot water bottles\" with her savings of $5000 and transported them over the Chilkoot Pass to Dawson City, where she sold them for six times that amount in June 1897. She built a restaurant in Dawson, then a roadhouse, the Grand Forks Hotel and restaurant, near the gold fields. Prospering, she started buying mining claims as well; by the end of the year, she either owned or was a partner in five. She sold the hotel for $24,000 and set about building the finest hotel in Dawson. The Fairview Hotel opened its doors on July 27, 1898, with a restaurant and rooms for thirty guests.\n\nMulrooney once partnered with fellow Klondike legend Alex McDonald to salvage the cargo from a small ship wrecked on a sand bar. McDonald got there first and took all of the food, leaving only gum boots and whiskey for her. She got her revenge, however. The next spring, when McDonald needed boots for his workers, he had to pay her $100 a pair.\n\nOn October 1, 1900, Mulrooney married self-styled \"Count\" Charles Eugene Carbonneau, who claimed to be a French aristocrat, but was actually a champagne salesman and former barber from Quebec. By 1903 or 1904, the couple separated, and she lost her fortune. She obtained a divorce in December 1906.\n\nStarting over, she moved to Fairbanks, Alaska in 1904 or 1905 and prospered once again. She established the Dome City Bank in Fairbanks with her younger sister Margaret.\n\nMulrooney eventually retired to Yakima, Washington, where she had a large mansion built. She supported her family until her money ran out. She then moved to Seattle, where she died in 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "45466709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45466709", "title": "Chiharu Muto", "text": "Chiharu Muto\n\nShe went to the Exile Professional Gym (EXPG) in Tokyo.\n\nIn 2011, she passed the vocal division of \"Vocal Battle Audition 3\" and joined Flower and E-girls.\n\nOn 12 October 2014 she announced to withdraw from Flower and E-girls to study abroad. On 26 October, with the Exile Tribe live performed at Kyocera Dome Osaka, she withdrew from E-girls. On 13 November, she later withdrew from Flower with a commemorative event of the single \"Akikaze no Answer\" at Ikebukuro Sunshine City.\n\nOn 16 February 2015, she announced the establishment of her own fashion brand \"Blixzy\". She is a creative director and performs total production including brand designing, modelling, and promoting.\n\nOn 16 August 2017, her solo single \"Nobody Like You\" became her first solo work sold at a Blixzy Harajuku store. Although she made her singing activity for the first time in about three years, she told on her blog that there was no intention to become active afterwards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2285313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2285313", "title": "Consumer Credit Act 1974", "text": "Consumer Credit Act 1974\n\nThe Consumer Credit Act 1974 (c 39) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that significantly reformed the law relating to consumer credit within the United Kingdom.\n\nPrior to the Consumer Credit Act, legislation covering consumer credit was slapdash and focused on particular areas rather than consumer credit as a whole, such as moneylenders and hire-purchase agreements. Following the report of the Crowther Committee in 1971 it was decided that wide-ranging reform of consumer credit law was needed, and a bill to do this was introduced to Parliament. Despite its progress through Parliament being disrupted by a general election, the bill passed quickly through the legislative process thanks to support from both the government and the opposition, coming into law on 31 July 1974.\n\nThe Act introduces new protection for consumers and new regulation for bodies trading in consumer credit and related industries. Such traders must have full licenses from the Office of Fair Trading, which may be suspended or revoked in the event of irregularities. The Act also regulates what may be taken as security, limits the ways in which credit organisations can advertise and gives the county court the ability to intercede in the case of unfair or unjust credit agreements. It also gives additional rights to the debtor, including certain limited rights to cancel concluded agreements. The Act was amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006.\n\nConsumer credit regulation was almost entirely ignored by both Parliament and the courts for over 800 years, with the judges and Members of Parliament taking the attitude that there was no reason to interfere with fairly concluded contracts. The first piece of legislation to deal with consumer credit was the Bills of Sale Act 1854, which required bills of sale to be registered. This allowed the courts to intervene for the first time, since an unregistered bill of sale was void and could not be claimed by creditors. This act was followed by the Bills of Sale Act 1878 and the Bills of Sale Act (1878) Amendment Act 1882, which provided limited protection for debtors. Outside of these acts, however, little was done between 1854 and 1900, and moneylenders used this to their advantage, sometimes abusively; the report of the House of Commons Select Committee on Money-Lending in 1898 included testimony from one moneylender who admitted he charged 3,000% interest, while another had worked under 34 different aliases to avoid having notoriety associated with his name.\n\nAs a result of this report the Moneylenders Act 1900 was passed, which required registration for moneylenders and allowed the courts to dissolve \"unfair\" moneylending agreements. This act had two main weaknesses, however; firstly, many of the debtors who would like to sue their moneylender to have the agreement cancelled were by definition poor, and could not afford legal representation. Secondly, the Act only focused on specific types of lenders; lending by a single moneylender was covered, lending by a bank was not. In 1927 a second Moneylenders Act was passed, which required licensing as well as registration and forbade moneylenders from employing agents, canvasses or sending out unsolicited advertisements. Unfortunately the 1900 and 1927 Acts also covered commercial transactions, and since people lending money in a commercial area were not excluded as banks were, a slight infraction could make a loan completely irrecoverable. This was partially solved with the passing of the Companies Act 1967, which allowed the Board of Trade to give individual moneylenders licenses saying that they were acting as banks, not moneylenders.\n\nAs a result of the restrictions on business caused by the Moneylenders Act 1927, the idea of hire-purchase developed. These were first regulated by the Hire-Purchase and Small Debt (Scotland) Act 1932, which only covered Scotland; England and Wales was first covered by the Hire-Purchase Act 1938, later amended by the Hire-Purchase Act 1954 and the Hire-Purchase Act 1964. The 1965 Act applied to all hire-purchase agreements worth less than £2,000 and when the hirer and buyer was not a corporation.\n\nIn 1965 the Crowther Committee was established to look at the state of consumer credit law in the United Kingdom. Chaired by Lord Crowther, the Committee began sitting in December that year and eventually extended their review to cover consumer credit generally rather than just the bills of sale and moneylending they had initially been concerned with, and their report was finally published in March 1971. The report discussed the economical, social and legal aspects of consumer credit, and concluded that the existing law was so confused and unsatisfactory that it was not worth amending. Instead it recommended the complete repeal of all existing legislation and its replacement with two new acts: a Lending and Security Act, which would regulate legitimate business transactions, and a Consumer Sale and Loan Act which would regulate consumer credit and establish a licensed system for its use.\n\nThe reaction to the report from consumer and business organisations was overwhelmingly positive, but the government initially did nothing, since the Department of Trade and Industry wanted time to work out the particular details of any Acts. Their hand was eventually forced by Baroness Phillips a year later, who initiated a debate in the House of Lords on the matter. The government's official statement was that they were willing to accept almost all the recommendations made about consumer credit, they did not wish to legislate on lending and securities. In February 1973 they created a Voluntary Code which they expected those lending to observe. The Code set out guidelines for loaning money to individuals and disclosing the cost of the loan.\n\nIn September 1973 the government issued a white paper titled \"Reform of the Law on Consumer Credit\" in which they indicated they were planning to implement almost all of the Crowther Committee's consumer credit recommendations. The only real differences were an increase in the limits for financial protection from £2,000 to £5,000 (due to the drop in value of money), and stronger protection for hirers under hire-purchase agreements.\n\nThe Act was first introduced to Parliament as the Consumer Credit Bill at the beginning of November 1973, and initially ran to 96 pages. It was given its second reading on 14 November, and was welcomed by both the government and opposition.By February 1974 it had passed through the Committee Stage, but its progress was cut short by a general election in the same month. Thanks to the support of the opposition to the original bill this did not make a significant impact, and the new administration immediately reintroduced the bill in the House of Lords. It was passed on 31 July 1974, and immediately received the Royal Assent. The final version of the act contained 193 sections and 5 schedules, much larger than the original 96 pages.\n\nThe Act is divided into 12 sections, and is \"designed to provide a comprehensive code regulating the consumer credit and consumer hire fgb and almost every aspect of a credit granting operation\".\n\nThe office of Director General of Fair Trading was created by the Fair Trading Act 1973, with the Director appointed by the government for a five-year term. Consumer credit was not originally part of his duties (although the scope of his role did contain some elements of consumer credit) and the Crowther Committee had recommended the creation of a separate Consumer Credit Commissioner, something included in the original bill. When the bill was resurrected after the February 1974 general election, however, it was decided that the duties should instead be given to the Office of Fair Trading, and for this purpose a separate division (the Division of Consumer Credit) was set up within the OFT.\n\nSection 1 of the Act gives the Director General of Fair Trading the duties of administering the licensing system set up by the Act, supervising the working and enforcement of the Act and any regulations made by it and, if appropriate, enforce the Act and regulations himself. The DGFT is also tasked with advising the government about social and commercial developments within the United Kingdom, and any actions taken to enforce the Act and its orders and regulations. Section 4 of the act requires him to disseminate any appropriate information and advice about consumer credit to the people of the United Kingdom. This allows him to educate the public about consumer credit, and was intended to be conducted through organisations such as the Citizens Advice Bureau. The Director's duties under this Act overlap slightly with those given by the Fair Trading Act, but are still an expansion over his original role. The Director General is tasked with issuing licenses, and under Section 35 of the Act, the Director is required to maintain a register containing all appropriate information related to licenses and applications for licenses. The register was created on 2 February 1976, and is kept at Chancery House in London. The Enterprise Act 2002 formally substituted the Office of Fair Trading for the Director General of Fair Trading for the purposes of this Act.\n\nPart II contains definitions for many types of agreements covered by the Act. There are three main types of agreement; regulated consumer credit agreements, regulated consumer hire agreements and partially regulated agreements.\n\nA regulated consumer credit agreement is defined as an agreement between two parties, one of whom (the debtor) is an individual, and the other of whom (the creditor) is \"any other person\", in which the creditor provides the debtor with credit not exceeding £5,000 (this figure was subsequently increased to £25,000 and under the Consumer Credit Act 2006 there is no upper limit). An exception to this definition is so-called \"exempt agreements\", which are agreements made where the creditor is a land improvement company, a charity, a friendly society, a trade union, an insurance company or \"a body corporate named or specifically referred to in any public general Act\". The definition of \"agreement\" is given as any discussion which produces a legal relationship; a contract. As such the decision of courts as to whether an agreement constituted an \"agreement\" under the Act rests with English contract law, and is not discussed within the Act. In many cases this is largely academic, however, since unless one party tries to contest the existence of a contract any agreement can proceed regardless of its validity under contract law.\n\n\"Individual\" is defined as including a partnership or other unincorporated body, but not corporations registered at Companies House or created by an Act of Parliament or Royal Charter, such as the BBC. The definition also excludes \"corporations sole\", such as certain government ministers and bishops. Under the Industrial and Provident Societies Act 1965, industrial and provident societies are considered corporate bodies and thus excluded from the Act, but friendly societies and trade unions are unincorporated and thus qualify. In contrast, however, the definition of \"person\" includes both individuals and incorporated bodies.\n\nA regulated consumer hire agreement is defined as an agreement between two bodies, one of whom (the hirer) is an individual, and the other of whom, (the owner) is a person, by which goods are loaned to the hirer for use without an option to purchase. The agreement must be \"capable of subsisting\" for longer than three months, not require the hirer to make payments of more than £5,000 total and not be an \"exempt agreement\". \"Goods\" are defined as chattels personal, with \"capable of subsisting\" simply meaning that the agreement does not restrict the time limit of use to less than three months. The agreement does not have to exceed three months, but the option to do so must be given by one party.\n\nPartially regulated agreements are those consumer hire or consumer credit agreements which are not an exempt agreement but are exempt from certain provisions of the Act. What these provisions are depends on the type of agreement; small agreements, non-commercial agreements and contracts with a foreign element.\n\nSmall agreements are defined in Section 17 of the act as regulated consumer credit agreements where the credit does not exceed £30 and regulated consumer hire agreements which do not require the hirer to pay more than £30 in fees. This does not include hire-purchase or conditional sale agreements, which do not qualify regardless of the size of credit, secure transactions and transactions where the parties have attempted to break up a transaction into multiple smaller ones worth under £30 to avoid regulation. Small agreements are exempt from almost all of Part V of the act, although they remain controlled by Part IV.\n\nThe Act is primarily aimed at commercial and professional traders, and as a result excludes non-commercial agreements. Non-commercial agreements are defined by the Act as agreements where neither the creditor nor debtor are providing the transaction for business purposes in any way. Non-commercial agreements are exempt from Part V of the Act.\n\nContracts with a foreign element would not normally be mentioned in Acts of Parliament, which are deliberately constructed to avoid giving the law extraterritorial effect. In this case, however, the Act contains provisions for contracts with a foreign element, which due to the nature of commerce are common (a credit card issued in the United Kingdom, for example, which is used on holiday in France). As a result, Section 16(5) specifically excludes contracts \"having a connection with a country outside the United Kingdom\" from the Act.\n\nThe previous Acts on commercial credit provided no mechanism to regulate and enforce the rules, and the Consumer Credit Act's licensing system was the first major regulatory process within British consumer credit law. Licenses are required to carry out a consumer credit or consumer hire business, with exceptions for local authorities and corporate bodies allowed by an Act of Parliament to carry out consumer credit business. All other bodies must apply to the Consumer Credit Licensing Branch of the Office of Fair Trading for a license.\n\nThere are two types of license given - group licenses and standard licenses.\n\nGroup licenses are issued by the Director General of Fair Trading to cover a group of people in those activities described in the license. Group licenses can be issued following an application, or simply voluntarily by the Director. Holders of a group license do not have to apply individually and are not vetted individually, and holding a group license does not prevent members from also applying for a standard license. The group licenses are intended for cases where individual screening is not in the public interest; for example, when bodies are so large and established that their reputation is without question and individual screening would take too much time. Bodies currently holding group licenses include the Law Society of England and Wales and the Law Society of Northern Ireland, both professional associations of solicitors. The Director has the ability to exclude named individuals from group licenses to prevent obvious abuse.\n\nStandard licenses are licenses issued by the Director General to an individual. It can only be provided following an application, not at the Director General's discretion like a group license, and covers certain activities in a fixed period. Initially there was no obligation to issue licenses, but an amendment to the bill in Parliament means that the Director General is required to issue a license on the application of any person, providing that person is a fit person to engage in such activities and the name he applies to be licensed under is not misleading or undesirable. The license allows an individual or a partnership to trade under those names listed on the license, and is divided into seven categories:\n\nHolders of a license are obliged to inform the Director General when there is a change made within the office of a corporate licensee, an unincorporated body or a partnership. This must be done within 21 days of the change occurring. Details of new licenses are published in the \"Consumer Credit Bulletin\", the weekly journal of the Office of Fair Trading. A license lasts for 3 years beginning with the date specified on the license, not the date of its issue. A person who engages in activities that require a license when he does not have one commits a criminal offence. In addition, those agreements he makes are considered unenforceable unless the Director General directly intercedes.\n\nA license can be terminated on the death of the licensee, the licensee becoming bankrupt, the licensee becoming a patient under the Mental Health Act 1959, a bankruptcy deal under the Bankruptcy Act 1914 in which the license is given to a trustee or a deal under the Deeds of Arrangement Act 1914 in which the licensee's license is handed to a trustee. Such provisions cover both individual, unincorporated bodies and partnerships who are license holders. These provisions do not cover corporate bodies, because following consultations the Government became aware that the liquidation and winding-up of a corporate body would pose problems with licensing, largely because the body continues to trade through a liquidator.\n\nThe Act specifically controls the way in which traders and companies seek business. Prior to this individual aspects had been controlled — advertisement by moneylenders had been strictly regulated since the Moneylenders Act 1927 — but no other aspects of consumer credit were regulated at all. While this was acceptable for large and respectable institutions, the evolution of less reputable trading organisations necessitated some kind of regulation, and the Consumer Credit Act was the first statute to provide such controls for consumer credit organisations. It covers three main areas: advertising, canvassing and quotations and the display of information. No regulations have yet been made on quotations or the display of information.\n\nThe advertising provisions apply to any advertisement published for the business carried out by the advertiser which indicates he is willing to provide credit or provide goods to be hired. \"advertisement\" is taken to mean any form of advertisement, including a publication, television or radio broadcast, the display of signs, labels or goods, the distribution of samples, circulars, catalogues or price lists or the exhibition of picture, models or films, or in \"any other way\". Previous legislation such as the Advertisements (Hire-Purchase) Act 1967 limited the definition of advertisement to visual advertisements and excluded oral communications and radio broadcasts, which are included by the Act. The test of whether an oral communication counts as an \"advertisement\" is whether or not the communication is made for drawing attention to the advertiser's business or for answering a specific enquiry without promoting the business. In \"R. v Delmayne\" [1970] 2 QB 170 the High Court of Justice decided that even replying to an enquiry can amount to an advertisement if framed in such a way that it is calculated to attract business.\n\nPart IV only applies to \"public\" advertising published to promote a business — as such circulars given to employees advertising such terms would not be considered \"advertisements\". Advertisements are not regulated by the Act if the advertiser is not involved in a consumer credit business, consumer hire business or a business in which he provides credit to individuals.\n\nUnder Part IV, the Secretary of State can make regulations limiting the form and content of advertisements covered by the Act. The regulations can also specifically include certain terms or facts, and failing to follow them constitutes an offence. The intent of these regulations is to ensure that no advertisement contains misleading information, that advertisements provide the reader with a \"reasonable picture\" of the terms and conditions and that the reader is aware that the availability and terms of credit may be affected by factors such as the age and employment of the applicant.\n\nThe Crowther Committee recommended that doorstep canvassing for loans should be completely prohibited. The original provisions in the bill were indeed extremely stringent, and caused potential problems for other businesses, but were significantly amended and now only affect the canvassing they were intended to prevent. Canvassing is defined as a situation in which an individual (the canvasser) solicits the entry of another individual (the consumer) into an agreement based on his oral representations during a visit by the canvasser to \"any place\" for the purpose of making such representations. Exceptions to \"any place\" are places where business is carried out, either permanently or temporarily, by the creditor, owner, supplier, canvasser, employer of the canvasser or the consumer. There is no requirement that the oral solicitations take place in person - they can come over the telephone, or be trying to induce another individual to convince the consumer into entering an agreement.\n\nPart V of the Act deals with four elements of entering into a credit or hire agreement; pre-contract disclosure, the formalities of entry into a regulated agreement, cancellation of a regulated agreement and its consequences and withdrawal from a prospective regulated agreement and its consequences. In some cases, specific information must be disclosed before a contract is made, with the standard provision that contracts where this is not followed are unenforceable without an order from the courts.\n\nThere are certain formalities for entry into a regulated agreement, mostly based on the documentation that must be provided. Under Section 60, the Secretary of State is required to make certain regulations covering the format that contracts must take. These regulations must ensure that the debtor is made aware of the rights and/or duties conferred on him by the agreement, the amount and rate of the total charge for credit, the protection and remedies available to him and \"any other matters which, in the opinion of the secretary of state, it is desirable for him to know about in connection with the agreement\". The Act allows the Director General of Fair Trading to waive certain requirements if it appears, on the application of a consumer credit business, that to enforce them would be impracticable.\n\nSection 61 lays out the formalities required for a regulated agreement. The terms must be found in a signed and legible document, a copy of the unsigned agreement must be supplied to the debtor or hirer, a copy of the signed document must be supplied to the debtor or hirer and a notice advising the debtor or hirer of his rights of cancellation must be included with the signed and unsigned copies. The \"signed and legible document\" is described in Section 61 as a document which contains all the prescribed terms, other than implied terms, and is, when presented to the debtor or hirer for signature, in such a state that all its terms are legible. Such a document must be in the form \"prescribed by regulations\".\n\nThe regulations in question are the 1983 Regulations (UK Parliament SIs 1980-1989/1983/1551-1600/Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 1983 (SI 1983/1553) 1983 No 1553 \"Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 1983\"). These regulations laid down specific rules regarding certain \"prescribed terms\". For example, a regulated credit agreement had to contain prescribed information about the amount of credit, the length of any fixed term loan, the amount of monthly repayments and so on. If a lender failed to comply with the prescribed regulations then the agreement would not be \"properly executed\" under section 61 and could then be challenged as \"irredeemably unenforceable\" under section 127.\n\nPart V contains several provisions relating to the cancellation of a regulated agreement and the withdrawal from a prospective regulated agreement. These are similar to those found in the Hire-Purchase Act 1965, but cover all consumer credit and consumer hire agreements rather than the hire-purchase and instalment sale agreements previously covered. The withdrawal from a prospective agreement is found primarily at common law; a party may withdraw from a prospective agreement at any point before it becomes a contract without obligations. He can withdraw the prospective agreement by notice to the other party, with the Act allowing the creditor to use credit brokers as agents for this purpose.\n\nThe right to cancel a confirmed agreement was introduced by the Hire-Purchase Act 1964, mainly to frustrate doorstep salesmen who would take advantage of an unsuspecting person and force them to sign up to an agreement, normally with misrepresentations. In the Consumer Credit Act, the right of cancellation is covered in Section 67, which allows the debtor or hirer the right to cancel an agreement if there were false oral representations made to the debtor by somebody acting for the creditor. The cancellation may be enacted by serving a notice of writing given to the creditor or an agent of the creditor within six days of the agreement being made.\n\nThe Act was the first attempt by the Government of the United Kingdom to provide coherent rules relating to the taking of securities when dealing with consumer credit. Other than the Bills of Sale Acts there had been little law on securities before this, apart from a few provisions in the Hire-Purchase Acts. The Consumer Credit Act devoted an entire part of the Act to security, mostly between debtor and creditor, with third-party rights and regulations mostly governed by common law. The Act provides the form of securities, requires certain information and documents to be supplied, controls the enforcement of securities and provides certain circumstances in which securities can be considered void.\n\n\"Security\" is defined by the Act to mean any form of mortgage, bond, indemnity, guarantee or other right provided by the debtor as \"security\" to the consumer credit or hire-purchase agreement being conducted with the creditor. This covers both \"real\" securities such as mortgages and personal securities such as bonds. The only requirement is that the security must be given at the request of the debtor. Any security must be expressed in writing, and in some cases are part of the original hire agreement. This is distinct from previous law, which required a written note of the agreement but allowed the agreement to be conducted orally.\n\nCertain other formalities must be observed; under Section 105, a security is not considered properly executed unless a document is signed on or on behalf of the debtor. This document must conform to certain regulations; the terms must be legible when it is presented to be signed, it must give all the terms and conditions other than implied terms, a copy must also be presented and if the security is provided before the regulated agreement is made, a copy of the security agreement must be given to the debtor within seven days of the regulated agreement being made. If the formalities are not complied with the security agreement becomes unenforceable without a court order. The Act does not provide for any civil or criminal sanctions for creditors who enforce the agreement without a court order, however, but it may lead to the revocation or suspension of the creditor's license.\n\nPart IX gives the courts wide powers to re-open credit deals deemed extortionate and gives them control over regulated agreements. Section 189 establishes that \"courts\" means the county court; all problems are to be brought to the county court, although certain situations relating to extortionate credit agreements can be sent to the High Court.\n\nThe courts are allowed to issue enforcement orders for cases where the contract has been infringed upon, except in situations where the contract has not been signed or the terms are not set out in the contract, in which case they are permanently unenforceable. The courts are also prohibited from making enforcement orders where the owner or creditor did not give a copy of the agreement to the debtor or hirer before the contract commenced. Other than this the court is obliged to issue such orders. There are also situations in which orders can be made even when there has been no infringement. These are when the debtor or hirer has died, to recover protected goods without the consent of a debtor and to enforce a land mortgage.\n\nThe courts can also make \"time orders\" providing for either payment by the debtor of any sum owed to the creditor, remedying any breach of the agreement by the debtor other than non-payment of money or both. These orders are made at the discretion of the courts after an application for an enforcement order. The time orders can also cover statutory bailment in the case of hire-order or hire-purchase agreements. If the court feels that the property in dispute or acting as security is at risk of damage or deprecation, they can give protection orders preventing the use of the property. This re-enacts Section 35 of the Hire-Purchase Act 1965, which was repealed by the Consumer Credit Act.\n\nOther orders are \"special orders\", covered by Section 133 of the Act. There are two types; return orders and transfer orders. Return orders are orders from the court requiring the return of goods covered by the agreement to the creditor. These orders may be immediate or subject to a delay, and may give the debtor the option to pay the goods value to the creditor if he does not return the goods in time. Transfer orders are orders transferring the creditor's ownership of certain goods to the debtor, ordering the payment of the rest of the goods to the creditor. This can only be done if the debtor pays an amount of money equal or more than one third of the value of the returned goods.\n\nThe courts have long held equitable jurisdiction to set aside \"harsh and unconscionable bargains\", but prior to the Consumer Credit Act this was mainly used in cases where uninformed tradespeople have been selling goods at a loss, and was rarely used in the 20th century. The Moneylenders Act 1900 allowed the court to re-open a moneylending transaction if there was evidence that interest rates were \"harsh and unconscionable or otherwise such that a court of equity would give relief\", unless the moneylender could justify the rates. It was rarely used in the field of consumer credit because it was limited to those sorts of consumer transactions covered by the Moneylenders Act, and did not cover hire-purchase agreements or instalment sale agreements or loan transactions from people who were not moneylenders, such as banks.\n\nThe Consumer Credit Act provided guidelines for the court in determining whether a credit bargain is extortionate and extends the courts jurisdiction in this area to cover all credit agreements. If the court does believe the bargain was extortionate, it can re-open the agreement and examine the terms of it. If they decide it is indeed extortionate, they can set aside the remaining money owed, order the creditor to give money to the debtor, alter the terms of the agreement or order the return of any security. This only covers consumer credit agreements, not hire agreements.\n\nAn ancillary credit business is defined in Section 145 of the Act as any business that works in credit brokerage, debt adjusting, debt collecting, debt counselling or as a credit reference agency.\n\nCredit brokers are people involved in negotiating deals between potential debtors looking for credit and creditors, normally in exchange for a commission. Under the Act, \"credit broker\" includes not only mortgage brokers and loan brokers but also car dealers, shops that introduce customers to financial houses for hire-purchase agreements and solicitors who negotiate advances for non-corporate clients. An exception to this is if introductions and negotiations are not made in the individual's capacity as an employee of a business.\n\nDebt adjusting is when a company or individual negotiates with the creditor or owner in an agreement on behalf of the debtor to change the terms for the discharge of the debt, takes over the debt in exchange for payment by the debtor or engages in \"any similar activity concerned with the liquidation of a debt\".Pieheads This is again a wide area; the base definition covers, for example, solicitors and accountants who act as negotiators for clients who owe money to a third party. There are certain exceptions; a solicitor negotiating for the settlement of his client's debts is not considered to be working as a debt adjuster thanks to Section 146 of the Act, which excludes \"a solicitor engaging in contentious business\" as defined in the Solicitors Act 1957.\n\nDebt counselling is the giving of advice to debtors or hirers about the liquidation of debts under consumer credit or consumer hire agreements. This covers any debt counsellor, regardless of if it is free legal advice; as a result the Citizens Advice Bureau, for example, is considered a debt counsellor, although its advisers are covered by a group license. Debt collectors are covered by similar provisions, and are defined as anybody who takes steps to \"procure payment of debts due\" under consumer credit agreements and consumer hire agreements. Those who \"purchase\" debts and attempt to collect on them are covered by this definition.\n\nExceptions for these definitions are provided under Section 146 if the credit broker, debt adjuster, debt counsellor or debt collector is the creditor or owner under the credit agreement, the supplier under the agreement, a credit broker who has acquired the business of the supplier or somebody expressly excluded from certain definitions, such as a solicitor. The provisions for suppliers only come into effect when the credit is a loan, so that the supplier and creditor are different people. The exceptions do not include people who \"buy\" the roles above by purchasing the debts, such as professional debt buyers or financial houses.\n\nCredit reference agencies are covered separately from other ancillary credit businesses, and are defined in Section 148 as individuals or companies which carry on a business \"comprising the furnishing of persons with information relevant to the financial standard of individuals, being information collected by the agency for that purpose\". This definition was the subject of much academic debate, because the holding of the license for a credit reference agency involves a duty to supply information on credit status which the company might prefer to keep confidential. There are exceptions; the information must be collected for the purpose of giving it to others, so the fact that a bank, for example, has that information, does not mean they need to obtain a license as a credit reference agency.\n\nPart III of the Act applies directly to ancillary credit businesses, who must obtain a license. As with standard credit agreements, agreements made by an unlicensed ancillary trader are only enforceable against the other party if the Director General of Fair Trading issues an order which applies to the agreement. Under Section 149, creditors have an onus to make sure that the credit brokers they obtain business from are duly licensed. Again, if the broker is unlicensed, the agreement between the debtor and creditor is only enforceable when the Director General makes an order saying so. These provisions came into effect on 1 July 1978.\n\nPart IV of the Act also applies to ancillary credit businesses in relation to advertising, canvassing and quotations, as well as ways in which business can be sought. The Act also limited the brokerage fees that credit brokers can charge. Under Section 155, if the brokerage work does not lead to the client entering into an agreement with a creditor within 6 months of the work, the entire fee (minus the sum of £1) is refundable to the client. The Director General at the time indicated that those businesses which flouted Section 155 would be refused a license. These provisions came into force on 1 April 1977.\n\nSome elements of the Act came into force on 31 July 1974, the day it was passed, but many were left to be brought in later at the discretion of the government. This process was \"painfully slow\", with almost nothing apart from the licensing system being active in 1979. Section 141, which requires enforcement actions of a regulated credit or linked transaction to be pursued in the county court, came into force on 19 May 1985 through the statutory instrument \"Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Commencement No. 8) Order 1983\". The Act repealed the Hire-Purchase Act 1965, the Advertisements (Hire Purchase) Act 1967, the Moneylenders Act 1900, the Moneylenders Act 1927, the Pawnbrokers Act 1872 and the Pawnbrokers Act 1960. The Act was influential outside the United Kingdom, and was studied in both the United States and the Commonwealth of Nations. It formed the basis of a 1979 Directive on Consumer Credit of the European Union.\n\nThe Act did not go to the full extent suggested by the Crowther Committee's report, with protection only being available for consumers, not for the credit industry.\nThe Act was widely supported by all sides of the political spectrum, and by academia. Arthur Rogerson compared it to the Law of Property Act 1925 in that, like the 1925 Act, it \"represents fundamental rethinking of an area of great economic significance, which has resulted in the sweeping away of a chaos of obsolete rules, and the substitution for them of a simpler and better enforced body of law\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1092398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1092398", "title": "Contra proferentem", "text": "Contra proferentem\n\nContra proferentem (Latin: \"against [the] offeror\"), also known as \"interpretation against the draftsman\", is a doctrine of contractual interpretation providing that, where a promise, agreement or term is ambiguous, the preferred meaning should be the one that works against the interests of the party who provided the wording. The doctrine is often applied to situations involving standardized contracts or where the parties are of unequal bargaining power, but is applicable to other cases. The doctrine is not, however, directly applicable to situations where the language at issue is mandated by law, as is often the case with insurance contracts and bills of lading.\n\nThe reasoning behind this rule is to encourage the drafter of a contract to be as clear and explicit as possible and to take into account as many foreseeable situations as it can.\n\nAdditionally, the rule reflects the court's inherent dislike of standard-form take-it-or-leave-it contracts also known as contracts of adhesion (e.g., standard form insurance contracts for individual consumers, residential leases, etc.). The court perceives such contracts to be the product of bargaining between parties in unfair or uneven positions. To mitigate this perceived unfairness, legal systems apply the doctrine of \"contra proferentem\"; giving the benefit of any doubt in favor of the party upon whom the contract was foisted. Some courts when seeking a particular result will use \"contra proferentem\" to take a strict approach against insurers and other powerful contracting parties and go so far as to interpret terms of the contract in favor of the other party, even where the meaning of a term would appear clear and unambiguous on its face, although this application is disfavored.\n\n\"Contra proferentem\" also places the cost of losses on the party who was in the best position to avoid the harm. This is generally the person who drafted the contract. An example of this is the insurance contract mentioned above, which is a good example of an adhesion contract. There, the insurance company is the party completely in control of the terms of the contract and is generally in a better position to, for example, avoid contractual forfeiture. This is a longstanding principle: see, for example, California Civil Code §1654 (“In cases of uncertainty ... the language of a contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to exist\"), which was enacted in 1872. Numerous other states have also codified the rule.\n\nThe principle has also been codified in international instruments such as the UNIDROIT Principles and the Principles of European Contract Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "9377329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9377329", "title": "Edgar Brandt", "text": "Edgar Brandt\n\nEdgar William Brandt (1880–1960) was a French ironworker, prolific weapons designer and head of a company that designed 60mm, 81mm and 120mm mortars that were very widely copied throughout and subsequent to World War II. He also invented discarding-sabot artillery shells, and contributed substantially through his development of HEAT rifle grenades to the development of effective HEAT-warhead weapons for infantry anti-tank use.\n\nIn 1902, Brandt set up the business \"établissements Brandt\", where he produced ironwork and light armaments; this was based at 76 rue Michel-Ange in Paris.\n\nHis company was nationalised in 1936, and subsequently it purchased several engineering companies including the \"société Mécanique Industrielle de Précision (MIP)\" at Tulle in 1938. The same year, Brandt opened a major facility at La Ferté-Saint-Aubin which became the company's headquarters.\n\nIn 1956 Hotchkiss et Cie merged with établissements Brandt to form the Hotchkiss-Brandt company, which ten years later merged with Thomson and became \"Thomson-Brandt Armements\". After further evolutions, the company is now called TDA Armements SAS and is a part of the Thales Group.\n\nHe also was a very fine artist. He made things out of metal like his very fine Firescreen he created for a fireplace.\n\nSome of the products designed and built by Brandt's company and its successors include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12953652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12953652", "title": "Eduardo Maruri", "text": "Eduardo Maruri\n\nEduardo Maruri Miranda (born September 6, 1966, Guayaquil, Ecuador) is an Ecuadorian businessman, President and Founding Member of MARURI Grey Global Group Ecuador , and former President of the Barcelona Sporting Club Soccer Team of Ecuador.\n\nThe company he leads, Maruri GREY Ecuador, was the first Ecuadorian Advertising Agency to receive a Gold Lion at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity in 2012, 5 Awards in 2013, and 9 Awards in 2014.\n\nEduardo Maruri earned a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree from Eastern Michigan University in 1986 and a Certificate in Communications degree from Harvard University in 1989.\n\nIn 1991, along with his father, Jimmy Maruri, he founded Maruri Publicidad (nowadays called Maruri GREY Ecuador), a company focused on Communication Services and Advertising, ATL, BTL, Production, Digital, PR, Marketing, Planning and Research, among other services.\n\nIn 2011, the company received the Gran Condor de Oro Award for their Campaign with Aceite Sabrosón, which featured Ecuadorian singer Delfin Quishpe. In addition, Maruri GREY was named Agency of the Year by the Association of Advertising Agencies of Ecuador.\n\nIn 2012, the Agency received two Awards at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, including a Gold Lion in the PR Category for the CIMA-Yasuní Campaign. As this was the very first Award Ecuador received from this Festival up to that date, it was donated to the Museum of the Ecuadorian Presidency, and Phillip Thomas, CEO of the Festival attended the event of the donation. As a result, Eduardo was invited to Cala on CNN Latin America, an important TV Show of the network, to talk about his achievements on Cannes that year.\n\nAfterwards, in 2013, Maruri GREY won again on the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, this time 5 Awards, including a Gold Lion. Also in that year, the company was awarded with the Gran Condor de Oro for the Campaign \"Buena Memoria Multi C-Brina\".\n\nIn 2014, Maruri GREY received 9 Awards at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. In April of that year, Eduardo Maruri participated in the Regata de Posorja with the Fatty baseball team. In the November issue of Revista Vistazo, Maruri was placed at the 81st position in the Ranking of the Most Prestigious Entrepreneurs of Ecuador.\n\nMaruri sponsored the visits to Ecuador of many renown personalities such as Bill Clinton, George H. W. Bush, Mijaíl Gorbachov, Martin Luther King Jr., José María Aznar, Rigoberta Menchú, among others. In 2010, he organized the Primera Cumbre Internacional del Medio Ambiente CIMA, which hosted Al Gore.\n\nIn 2015, Maruri Grey Ecuador was once again the most\ncreative and war winning agency in the country, obtaining 12 CANNES LIONS: 3\ngolden lions, 3 silver and 6 bronze for their clients Panasonic, Ministry of\nTourism, Natures Garden and Chevrolet.\n\nThis same year, in the twelfth\nEffie awards Ecuador 2015, Maruri won silver in the category food,\ndrinks and liquors with the campaign ‘’Tarrinita’’ for La Fabril S.A\n\nFollowed by 14 Condor Awards in múltiple\ncategories, including best TV commercial of the year \"Sillón de\nAmigos\" for Directv.\n\nTOP 25 - RANKING DE AGENCIAS – CANNES LIONS 2015*\n\n1°- DDB España (DDB): 98 puntos (0 Grand Prix, 7 oros, 6 platas, 3 bronces, 10 finalistas)\n\n2°- Ogilvy & Mather Brasil (Ogilvy): 92 (0, 6, 5, 5, 10)\n\n3°- F/Nazca S&S Brasil (Saatchi & Saatchi): 85 (1, 4, 5, 5, 7)\n\n4°- AlmapBBDO Brasil (BBDO): 68 (0, 2, 4, 8, 10)\n\n5°- David EEUU (Ogilvy): 67 (0, 3, 6, 4, 4)\n\n6°- Maruri Grey Ecuador (Grey): 64 (0, 3, 3, 6, 10)\n\n7°- FCB Brasil (FCB): 63 (0, 3, 4, 4, 10)\n\n8°- Africa Brasil: 59 (0, 0, 5, 8, 10)\n\n9°- The Community Estados Unidos: 56 (1, 4, 2, 1, 5)\n\n10°- Leo Burnett Argentina (Leo Burnett): 50 (0, 4, 4, 0, 2)\n\n11°- Prolam Y&R Chile (Y&R): 50 (0, 4, 1, 3, 8)\n\n12°- Y&R Brasil (Y&R): 37 (0, 0, 4, 3, 8)\n\n13°- Grey México (Grey): 36 (0, 2, 2, 2, 6)\n\n14°- Lola Lowe & Partners España (Lowe & Partners): 36 (0, 1, 2, 5, 4)\n\n15°- Grey Argentina (Grey): 35 (0, 2, 1, 3, 7)\n\n16°- Leo Burnett México (Leo Burnett): 34 (1, 1, 2, 1, 4)\n\n17°- Ogilvy & Mather México (Ogilvy): 27 (0, 0, 3, 2, 6)\n\n18°- Lew Lara TBWA Brasil (TBWA): 27 (0, 1, 1, 3, 6)\n\n19°- Sancho BBDO Colombia (BBDO): 26 (0, 0, 3, 3, 2)\n\n20°- Leo Burnett Tailor Made Brasil (Leo Burnett): 24 (0, 0, 1, 3, 10)\n\n21°- DDB Brasil (DDB): 23 (0, 0, 2, 1, 10)\n\n22°- Tapsa Y&R España (Y&R): 22 (0, 0, 2, 1, 9)\n\n22°- Proximity España (Proximity): 22 (0, 1, 1, 2, 4)\n\n24°- Del Campo Saatchi & Saatchi España (Saatchi & Saatchi): 21 (0, 0, 1, 3, 7)\n\n25°- J Walter Thompson Brasil (J Walter Thompson): 20 (0, 1, 0, 2, 7)\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Se contabilizan 10 puntos por cada Grand Prix, 7 por cada oro, 5 por cada plata, 3 por cada bronce y 1 por cada finalista (hasta un máximo de 10 finalistas por agencias). Los premios de Titanium valen como un oro. A los Grand Prix se les suma también un oro.\n\nHe was elected President of the Barcelona Sporting Club soccer team from Guayaquil for the 2007-2011 period. In the 2008 season Maruri led the team to a 5th place in the Ecuadorian Serie A. On December 22, 2010 Maruri resigned the presidency of Barcelona after a surprise press conference alongside his family and fellow friends. Maruri stated that he was leaving Barcelona due to \"Family issues\", then Maruri said,\"We were born to be champions, I'm not the man who abandons his ship in a horrible thunderstorm and is about to be sunken underwater, I know better days will come for Barcelona\".\n\nIn 2004, Eduardo Maruri won the Elections for the Presidency of the Chamber of Commerce of Guayaquil. He was the Youngest President in the history of that Institution. In his two years of management, the number of affiliated companies doubled, and 90% of these scored his work as excellent.\n\nLater, in 2006, he was elected unanimously as the President of the National Federation of Chambers of Commerce of Ecuador, by the 85 Chambers of the country.\n\n\"Lideres\" Magazine described him as one of the most respected businessmen of Ecuador and \"Latin Finance\" magazine highlighted him as the only Ecuadorian between the Top 25 Latin American Businessmen able to take over important offices over the next 10 years.Maruri was the VicePresident of the Political Party \"Una Nueva Opción-UNO\". In September 2007, he was elected to be a part of the National Assembly of Ecuador, being the top voted candidate of his city, Guayaquil. On November of the same year, he won the Presidency of Barcelona Sporting Club, one of the most important Soccer Teams of Ecuador, and managed to get the team to succeed at Basketball.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32780354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32780354", "title": "Evil corporation", "text": "Evil corporation\n\nAn evil corporation is a trope in popular culture that portrays a corporation as ignoring social responsibility in order to make money for its shareholders. According to Angela Allan writing in \"The Atlantic\", the notion is \"deeply embedded in the landscape of contemporary culture—populating films, novels, videogames, and more.\" The science fiction genre served as the initial background to portray corporations in this dystopian light. Evil corporations can be seen to represent the danger of combining capitalism with larger hubris.\n\nIn real life, too, corporations have been accused of being evil. To guard against such accusations, Google adopted the official motto \"Don't be evil\", which it later silently abandoned following an employee exodus in protest of a military drone AI program. \"The New Yorker\" wrote that \"many food activists consider Monsanto to be \"the\" definitively evil corporation\". \"The Debate over Corporate Social Responsibility\" wrote, \"For many consumers, Wal-Mart serves as the evil corporation prototype, but record numbers shop at the stores for low prices.\" In Japan, a committee of journalists and rights activists issues an annual \"corporate raspberry award\" known as Most Evil Corporation of the Year Award (also called the Black Company Award) to a company \"with a culture of overwork, discrimination and harassment\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5310194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5310194", "title": "Field Artillery (magazine)", "text": "Field Artillery (magazine)\n\nField Artillery (or FA) is a discontinued bimonthly magazine on the subject of field artillery, published from 1911 to 2007. It was published by the US Field Artillery Association, Fort Sill, Oklahoma and was an official publication of the United States Army Field Artillery Corps. Its intended readership included active and reserve U.S. Army and Marine field artillerymen stationed around the world. In its final years, \"FA\" included much discussion of the military operations in both Afghanistan and Iraq.\n\nThe magazine was first published as the \"Field Artillery Journal\" in 1911. It has gone through several name changes. Due to low subscriptions it merged with the \"Infantry Journal\" in 1950, and was published as \"Combat Forces Journal\"; CFJ became \"Army\" in 1954.\n\nThe US Army Artillery and Missile School began the in-house publication of \"Tactical and Technical Trends in Artillery for Instruction\" in 1957 that was renamed to \"Artillery Trends\" in 1958. After the Artillery branch split into the Field Artillery and Air Defense Artillery branches in 1969, the name changed to \"The Field Artilleryman\". \"Field Artillery Journal\" restarted in 1973 as an official Field Artillery branch publication. Due to budget cuts, the magazine dropped a number of sections and was renamed \"Field Artillery\" in 1987.As part of the cost-saving measures of Base Realignment and Closure, several branch professional magazines were directed to merge. \"Field Artillery\" ceased publication with its final edition of March–April 2007. The successor is \"Fires\", a merger of \"Field Artillery\" and \"Air Defense Artillery\" magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "10957876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10957876", "title": "Filopimin Finos", "text": "Filopimin Finos\n\nFilopimin Finos (; 1908 – January 26, 1977) was a Greek film producer of 186 films and the founder of Finos Film, whose first film was in 1939. He built the first sound recording device in Greece, and shot the first colour film with stereo sound. Finos died in January 1977 after suffering cancer for seven years and he left no heir.\n\n"}
{"id": "882428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=882428", "title": "Hans Rausing", "text": "Hans Rausing\n\nSir Hans Rausing, KBE (born 25 March 1926) is a Swedish businessman based in the United Kingdom. He made his fortune from his co-inheritance of Tetra Pak, a company founded by his father Ruben Rausing and currently the largest food packaging company in the world. In the Forbes world fortune ranking, Rausing was placed at number 83 with an estimated fortune of $US10 billion in 2011. According to Forbes, he was the second richest Swedish billionaire in 2013. , Forbes reported his net worth as $12.5 billion. , \"Bloomberg Billionaires Index\" estimated Rausing's net worth to be $13.3 billion.\n\nRausing was born in Gothenburg in 1926 as the second son to industrialist Ruben Rausing and his wife Elisabeth (née Varenius). Rausing had two brothers, Gad and Sven.\n\nRausing studied Economics, Statistics and Russian at Lund University, graduating in 1948. In 1954 Rausing was appointed Managing Director of Tetra Pak and his brother Gad Deputy Managing Director. Rausing became Chairman of the Tetra Pak board in 1985. He left the company in 1993 and sold his 50% share of the company to Gad in 1995.\n\nTetra Pak's success in the 1970s and 1980s has been credited to the leadership of Hans and Gad Rausing, who turned the six-person family business into a multi-national company. Over the course of his career, Rausing became a specialist in Russian affairs and has made many investments in Russia and Ukraine. He was responsible for the Tetra Pak's Russian market, and negotiated the first Tetra Pak machine export to the Soviet Union in 1959, eventually making Tetra Pak the largest foreign employer in Russia.\n\nHans Rausing and his wife Märit have donated large sums to charities and research in the UK and Sweden, among others to large medical research projects at Karolinska Institutet and Lund University. Through the Märit and Hans Rausing Fund, they support local community projects in their home county of Sussex.\n\nThrough her fund Arcadia, Rausing's daughter Lisbet is financing the Hans Rausing Endangered Languages Project at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) at the University of London, the Hans Rausing Scholarship in the History of Science at King's College London, and the Hans Rausing Chair in the History of Science at Uppsala University, which is also hosting an annual Hans Rausing Lecture in the History of Science. The University of Cambridge Department of History and Philosophy of Science hosts an Annual Hans Rausing Lecture.\n\nHans Rausing has been appointed Doctor Honoris Causa in Medicine and Economics at Lund University. He is a visiting professor at Mälardalens Högskola, Sweden, and honorary professor at the University of Dubna, Russia. He was made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 2006.. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Isaac Newton Institute, Cambridge, and in 2011 he was awarded the title Honorary Freeman and Liveryman at The Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers, London.\n\nHans Rausing and his wife Märit Rausing have two daughters, Lisbet and Sigrid, and one son, Hans Kristian Rausing.\n\nRausing has been a resident of the UK since 1982. He lives in Wadhurst, East Sussex.\n\n"}
{"id": "414411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414411", "title": "Incorporation (business)", "text": "Incorporation (business)\n\nIncorporation (Inc.) is the formation of a new corporation (a corporation being a legal entity that is effectively recognized as a person under the law). The corporation may be a business, a nonprofit organization, sports club, or a government of a new city or town. This article focuses on the process of incorporation; see also Corporation (Corp.).\n\nThe information required differ in different states. However, there are some common information that are asked by almost all the states and so, must be incl. in the Certificate of Inc., accordingly. They are as follows:\n\n\n\n\nAm. opinion of corporations has evolved significantly throughout history, and Supreme Court cases provide a means to observe this evolution. While these cases may seem arbitrary and decontextualized when examined individually, when viewed successively and within historical context, a narrative emerges that offers an explanation for why such views are upheld.\n\n1816 the New Hampshire state legislature passed a bill that would turn privately owned Dartmouth College into a publicly owned university with a Board of Trustees appointed by the governor. The board filed a suit challenging the constitutionality of the legislature. The suit alleged the college enjoyed the right to contract and the government changing that contract was not allowed. Chief Justice John Marshall delivered the majority opinion and affirmed that the right to contract exists between owners of private property rather than between a government and its citizens. The case was the first case in US history that asked fundamental questions about corporate entities and the protections they enjoy; it also was a precedent-setting case in extending \"individual rights\" to corporations.\n\nThe railroad was an expensive multi-year project that greatly changed and altered both the physical and commercial landscape of the country. As with most new technology developments that have a broad impact, there are disputes about how those technologies and the businesses they thrive in fit under the umbrella of laws that govern regulations and taxation. In 1886 one such taxation dispute arose between Santa Clara County and Southern Pacific Railroad. The railroad thought the tax code was misapplied to some of their property and assets. In deciding the case, a unanimous court ruled that governments must abide by the same tax code enforcement for individuals that it did for corporations. While not explicitly stated in the case, it was implied that this case extended equal protection rights to corporations under the 14th amendment.\n\nThe booming economy the railroad corporations helped build from the late 19th into the early 20th centuries came to a screeching halt in 1929. The Great Depression, as it came to be known, helped a view of corporations emerge that put them at odds with the normal working man. The election of Franklin D. Roosevelt was a manifestation of many populist sentiments the country might have felt. In 1933 a Florida case came before the court, again disputing taxation. In \"Liggett v. Lee\" the court ruled that there could be a corporate tax, essentially saying the structure of business was a justifiably discriminatory criterion for governments to consider when writing tax legislation. This was a unique ruling handed down during a unique time in US history that denied a corporation freedom it sought in the courtroom.\n\nFrom 1940 to 1990 the percent of total GDP made up by financial service professionals increased by 300%. Along with that growth there was a growth in the profits this industry experienced as well. As the disposable income of banks and other financial institutions rose, they sought a way to use it to influence politics and policy. In response, Massachusetts passed a law limiting corporate donations strictly to issues related to their industry. The First National Bank of Boston challenged the law on First Amendment grounds and won. \"First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti\" allowed business to use financial speech in political causes of any nature.\n\nIn 2010 amidst an outpouring of frustration and blame directed at Wall Street the issue of corporate contributions came before the court again. In \"Citizens United v. FEC\" the court said there was virtually no distinction between monetary contributions and political speech, and because we do not limit political speech unless it is tantamount to bribery, corporations have the right as people to donate unlimited amounts of money to any political cause so long as it is not to a direct campaign.\n\nThe articles of incorporation (also called a charter, certificate of incorporation or letters patent) are filed with the appropriate state office, listing the purpose of the corporation, its principal place of business and the number and type of shares of stock. A registration fee is due, which is usually between $25 and $1,000, depending on the state.\n\nA corporate name is generally made up of three parts: \"distinctive element\", \"descriptive element\", and a legal ending. All corporations must have a distinctive element, and in most filing jurisdictions, a legal ending to their names. Some corporations choose not to have a descriptive element. In the name \"Tiger Computers, Inc.\", the word \"Tiger\" is the distinctive element; the word \"Computers\" is the descriptive element; and the \"Inc.\" is the legal ending. The legal ending indicates that it is in fact a legal corporation and not just a business registration or partnership. Incorporated, limited, and corporation, or their respective abbreviations (Inc., Ltd., Corp.) are the possible legal endings in the US.\n\nUsually, there are also corporate bylaws which must be filed with the state. Bylaws outline a number of important administrative details such as when annual shareholder meetings will be held, who can vote and the manner in which shareholders will be notified if there is need for an additional \"special\" meeting.\n\nCorporations can only deduct net operating losses going back two years and forward 20 years.\n\nAssuming a corporation has not sold stock to the public, conducting corporate business is straightforward. Often, it amounts to recording key corporate decisions (for example, borrowing money or buying real estate) and holding an annual meeting. These formalities can often be supplanted by written agreement and do not usually need a face-to-face meeting.\n\nIn the UK, the process of incorporation is generally called company formation. The United Kingdom is one of the quickest locations to incorporate, with a fully electronic process and a very fast turnaround by the national registrar of companies, the Companies House. The current Companies House record is five minutes to vet and issue a certificate of incorporation for an electronic application.\n\nThere are many different types of UK companies:\n\n\nThe legal concept of incorporation is recognized all over the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45618840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45618840", "title": "Intercollegiate Studies Institute", "text": "Intercollegiate Studies Institute\n\nThe Intercollegiate Studies Institute, Inc. (ISI), is a nonprofit educational organization that promotes conservative thought on college campuses. It lists the following six as its core beliefs: limited government, individual liberty, personal responsibility, the rule of law, free-market economics, and traditional Judeo-Christian values.\n\nISI was founded in 1953 by Frank Chodorov with William F. Buckley, Jr. as its first president. The organization sponsors lectures and debates on college campuses, publishes books and journals, provides funding and editorial assistance to a network of conservative and libertarian college newspapers, and finances graduate fellowships.\n\nIn 1953, Frank Chodorov founded ISI as the Intercollegiate Society of Individualists, with a young Yale University graduate William F. Buckley, Jr. as president. E. Victor Milione, ISI's next and longest-serving president, established publications, a membership network, a lecture and conference program, and a graduate fellowship program.\n\nISI has been teaching various forms of intellectual conservatism on college campuses ever since. \n\nPast ISI president and former Reagan administration official T. Kenneth Cribb led the institute from 1989 until 2011, when current president Christopher G. Long took over. Cribb is credited with expanding ISI's revenue from one million dollars that year to $13,636,005 in 2005.\n\nISI runs a number of programs on college campuses, including student societies and student papers. The organization also hosts academic-style conferences for undergraduates at various locations across the U.S.\nIn providing what ISI calls a classically liberal education to its member students, ISI runs other programs as well. It publishes a number of \"Student's Guide to...\" books, for example \"A Student's Guide to Liberal Learning\", providing a classical introduction into several disciplines. It also holds other events, such as conferences, that feature prominent conservative speakers and academics, and provides funding for students to attend these conferences. In this funding capacity ISI is affiliated with the Liberty Fund.\n\nIn the summer of 2005, ISI Books, the imprint of ISI, published \"It Takes a Family: Conservatism and the Common Good\", by Pennsylvania Republican Senator Rick Santorum, which premiered at #13 on the New York Times Best Seller list. Passages from the book generated controversy during Santorum's 2006 reelection campaign, as well as during his 2012 presidential campaign.\n\nISI administers the Collegiate Network, which provides editorial and financial outreach to conservative and libertarian student journalists.\n\nIn the fall of 2006, ISI published the findings of its survey of the teaching of America's history and institutions in higher education. The Institute reported, as the title suggests, that there is a \"coming crisis in citizenship.\"\n\nIntercollegiate Studies Institute operates ISI Books, which publishes books on conservative issues and distributes a number of books from other publishers. Focus is largely on the humanities and the foundations of Western culture and its challenge by radical left-wing progressivism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40310033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40310033", "title": "Islamica", "text": "Islamica\n\nIslamica is an Islamic company founded in Chicago, Illinois that sells apparel, accessories and media marketed towards Muslim youth and cultural fusion. \n\nIslamica focuses on an emerging generation of Muslims in non-Muslim environments. Islamica apparel allows Muslims to express their identity through contemporary styles and humorous messages.\nThe company was founded in 1999 by Mirza Baig, Azher Ahmed and Afeef Abdul-Majeed. One of the best known products of Islamica is its community website, \"Islamica\", a popular internet forum and one of the busiest Muslim websites in North America. Islamica News offers Muslim-oriented parody news.\n\n"}
{"id": "50513137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50513137", "title": "Jay Barney", "text": "Jay Barney\n\nJay B. Barney is an American professor in strategic management, best known for his contributions to the resource-based theory of competitive advantage.\n\nJay Barney was born in Walnut Creek, California on October 8, 1954. He spent his formative years in San Bruno, California and graduated from San Carlos High School in San Carlos, California in 1972. He attended Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah where he majored in Sociology. He graduated from BYU, summa cum laude, in December 1974 and began the Ph.D. program in Sociology at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut in 1976. By 1978, he had created a special joint Ph.D. degree in Sociology and Administrative Sciences at Yale. He finished this degree in 1982.\n\nBarney joined the faculty at the Anderson Graduate School of Management at UCLA in 1980, moved to the Mays Business School at Texas A&M University in 1986, to the Fisher College of Business at the Ohio State University in 1994—where he held the Chase Chair for Excellence in Corporate Strategy, and to the Eccles School of Business at the University of Utah in 2012—where he held the rank of Presidential Professor and the Lassonde Chair in Social Entrepreneurship.\n\nBarney is best known for his contributions to the resource-based theory of competitive advantage in the field of strategic management Resource-based View. The field of strategic management focuses on explaining why some firms outperform others. Research in this field was changed dramatically with the introduction of concepts from micro-economics by Michael Porter in 1979 and 1908[1] Building on the work of Joe Bain [2], Professor Porter developed tools for analyzing the competitive threats in an industry. Operationalized in his famous \"five forces framework,\" Porter's Five Forces Professor Porter's work could be used to explain why firms in some industries outperformed firms in other industries.\n\nHowever, there is often substantial variance in the performance of firms within the same industry. For example, both Wal-Mart and Kmart operate in the discount retail industry, and yet Wal-Mart became one of the largest firms in the world, while at the same time, Kmart struggled with bankruptcy. A theory that used the structure of competition in an industry—such as Professor Porter's theory—had little to say about such intra-industry variation in firm performance. Resource-based theory is designed to address this problem.\n\nThe main tenants of resource-based theory were developed in a series of articles by Professors Richard Rumelt [3], Birger Wernerfelt [4], Jay Barney [5], and Margie Peteraf [6]. However, the theory grew in popularity and influence when Professor Barney published a paper on the resource-based view in 1991.[7] This paper has become one of the most cited papers in the field of strategic management.\n\nThe central assumptions of resource-based theory are (1) that firms can vary in their resources and capabilities, and (2) that these differences can last over time. The reason differences in resources and capabilities can be stable often has to do with the nature of some of these resources and capabilities—their path dependence [8], their causal ambiguity [9], their tacitness [10], and so forth. These characteristics of resources and capabilities may create information asymmetries between firms that possess them and those that do not. These information asymmetries may make it costly for firms without certain resources and capabilities to imitate them. In addition, imitation can be costly—even if information asymmetries do not exit—because of these resource characteristics. For example, a disadvantage firm may know, with certainty, that its competitor's success is due to its organizational culture—an example of a socially complex resource of capability—and not be able to change its own culture to imitate this successful culture.\n\nProfessor Barney's 1991 paper developed a simple framework for distinguishing among several different types of firm performance—i.e., competitive disadvantage, competitive parity, temporary competitive advantage, and sustained competitive advantage competitive advantage—and identified the attributes of resources and capabilities that would make them costly to imitate. This framework has come to be known as the VRIO (Valuable, Rare, Costly to Imitate, and exploited by Organization). Resources that do not increase a firm's revenues or decrease its costs as not valuable, and are a source of competitive disadvantage. Resources that are valuable but not rare are a source of competitive parity. Resources that are valuable and rare can be a source of temporary competitive advantage. Resources that are valuable, rare, and costly to imitate can be a source of sustained competitive advantage. Organization acts like an adjustment factor in this theory—enabling firms that should only have competitive parity to gain high level performance from their resources or leading firms with potentially higher levels of performance to lose that performance because they are poorly organized.\n\nResource-based theory dominated research in the field of strategic management from the early 1990s through 2015. It has also influenced a variety of other fields, including human resource management[12], information technology [13]; supply chain management [14]; and others.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, Professor Barney worked with Dr. Sharon Alvarez to develop a new theoretical approach to the study of entrepreneurship. Rather than assuming that entrepreneurial opportunities are formed by exogenous shocks to established markets or industries, this approach suggests that opportunities can also be endogenous to entrepreneurial action [15]. By 2015, this \"creation view\" of entrepreneurship was beginning to gain traction among entrepreneurship scholars.\n\nResearch topics that build directly on resource-based theory include The Knowledge based Theory of the Firm, Relational View, Dynamic Capabilities, theories of core competence, and competitive heterogeneity.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53925968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53925968", "title": "Joe Harris (illustrator)", "text": "Joe Harris (illustrator)\n\nJoseph Benjamin Harris III (January 5, 1928 – March 26, 2017) was an American illustrator and storyboard artist. He is best known for creating the Trix Rabbit, the cartoon mascot for General Mills' Trix breakfast cereal, who debuted in 1959. He also penned the Trix rabbit's memorable commercial tagline, \"Silly rabbit! Trix are for kids\", which is still utilized in General Mills' advertising campaign, as of 2017. Additionally, in 1959 Harris, Chet Stover, and W. Watts Biggers co-founded Total Television, which produced Saturday morning cartoons. Harris created some of Total Television's best known characters and series, including \"King Leonardo and His Short Subjects\" (1960–1963), \"Klondike Kat\" (1963–1965), and \"Tennessee Tuxedo and His Tales\" (1963–1966). His best known character creation was Underdog, the canine star of the animated series, \"Underdog\", from 1964 to 1967.\n\nJoe Harris was born on January 5, 1928, in Jersey City, New Jersey, to Gladys (née Golden) and Charlie Harris. He enlisted and served in both the United States Navy and the United States Marine Corps. He graduated from the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nHarris joined the staff of the New York City-based ad agency Dancer Fitzgerald Sample as a copywriter shortly after graduating from Pratt. In 1954, one of Dancer Fitzgerald Sample's clients, General Mills, introduced Trix cereal as a sugar-coated version of its popular brand, Kix. The company experimented with a puppet rabbit for Trix commercials as early as 1955. However, Harris, then an illustrator and copywriter for Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, created the cereal's now iconic animated mascot, the Trix rabbit, who debuted in television commercials in 1959. Harris also conceived the Trix commercial's tagline, \"Silly rabbit! Trix are for kids\", utilized as the foil whenever children stop the rabbit from stealing Trix cereal. Harris' tagline, and his famous Trix rabbit, are still used in General Mills' Trix campaign fifty years after its first commercial.\n\nChet Stover, who managed the General Mills' Trix account for Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, fully credited Harris with creating the Trix rabbit in an internal memo to the company, writing, \"In a business where the only thing we have to sell are ideas, it is of first importance the credit is given where credit belongs — and Joe gets all the credit for this one.\"\n\nIn 1959, Harris joined with several Dancer Fitzgerald Sample colleagues, including Stover and W. Watts Biggers, to co-found Total Television, which produced Saturday morning cartoons. Harris personally created several of Total Television's iconic cartoon characters, most famously Underdog, the dog superhero and star of the 1960s animated series, \"Underdog\". Harris' also designed other notable creations, including King Leonardo, Klondike Kat and Tennessee Tuxedo. Additionally, Harris drew the storyboards for Total Television's animated shows, while Stover and Biggers, a Dancer Fitzgerald Sample account manager, wrote penned the scripts for the episodes.\n\nHarris returned to the advertising industry after Total Television folded in 1969. He also penned and illustrated several children's books, including \"The Belly Book.\"\n\nHarris died at his home in Stamford, Connecticut, on March 26, 2017, at the age of 89. His first wife, Janet Opel, died in 1981, while his second wife, Vanessa Campbell, died in 2002. He was survived by three daughters, Merrie Harris, Joelle Malec, and Sophie Harris; three grandchildren, and his stepbrother, David.\n"}
{"id": "29312631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29312631", "title": "Johann Christoph Fugger", "text": "Johann Christoph Fugger\n\nJohann Christoph Fugger (1561-1612) was a German businessman and the last famous survivor of the Fugger vom Reh branch of the Fugger family. He was employed at the royal court in Prague. In 1603 he married Regina Greiner. Johann Christoph was a member of the German nobility. His grandfather, Gastel Fugger, got a patent of nobility in 1547. Johann Christoph Fugger had no descendants. Contemporary members of the Fugger vom Reh are descendants of Matthäus Fugger (1442-1489/92). The current patriarch is Markus Fugger von dem Rech (born 1970). \n"}
{"id": "20082163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20082163", "title": "John A. Fraser (businessman)", "text": "John A. Fraser (businessman)\n\nJohn Arthur Fraser (born 8 August 1951) is an Australian public servant. He commenced in his role as Secretary of the Department of the Treasury in January 2015, and announced his retirement in July 2018.\n\nFraser graduated from Monash University in Australia in 1972 with a first class honours degree in Economics. He worked for the Australian Treasury, including two international postings to Washington DC, firstly at the International Monetary Fund and then as Economic Minister at the Australian embassy. He was Deputy Secretary (Economic) of the Department of the Treasury.\n\nFraser joined the UBS Group in Australia in 1993 and was named Head of Asia Pacific for the Business Group in 1999. From 1994 to 1998 he was Executive Chairman and CEO of Swiss Bank Corporation's division SBC Australia Funds Management Ltd. He was Chairman and CEO of UBS Global Asset Management from December 2001 until December 2013. Prior to that, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of UBS Asset Management and Head of Asia Pacific. \n\nIn December 2014, Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced John Fraser's appointment as Secretary of the Treasury Department, to commence 15 January 2015. The appointment is for five years. Treasurer Joe Hockey said that, in his new role, Fraser would be asked to undertake a thorough review of the Treasury Department's resources and capabilities. On 12 July 2018, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced that Fraser had resigned as Treasury Secretary, effective 31 July, and that he would be replaced by Philip Gaetjens.\n\nFraser was a member of the Board of Governors at the Marymount International School in Kingston-upon-Thames from 2007 to 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1159739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1159739", "title": "John Lee Carroll", "text": "John Lee Carroll\n\nJohn Lee Carroll (September 30, 1830February 27, 1911), a member of the United States Democratic Party, was the 37th Governor of Maryland from 1876 to 1880.\n\nCarroll was born in Baltimore, Maryland, the son of Col. Charles Carroll (b. 1801) and Mary Diggs Lee (b. 1800). Col. Charles Carroll was the great-grandson of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, (1737–1832), the only Catholic signer and longest living, last surviving signer of the Declaration of Independence. John Lee Carroll was also a great-grandson of Maryland's second (and seventh) Governor of Maryland, Thomas Sim Lee, (1745–1819).\n\nAt the age of ten, in 1840, Carroll was sent to Mount Saint Mary's College in Frederick County's Emmitsburg, where he remained for two years. After leaving he attended Georgetown University in Georgetown, near Washington, D.C., and then the secular part of St. Mary's College, on North Paca Street in Baltimore, for another three years. Carroll then decided to enter the legal profession, and attended Harvard Law School of Harvard College, (now Harvard University), in Cambridge, Massachusetts, adjacent to Boston for two terms.\n\nAfter finishing schooling, Carroll worked as a student lawyer for the law office of Brown and Brune in Baltimore. He was admitted to the bar in 1851. Carroll practiced law in Maryland from 1854 until 1858. He ran as a Howard County Democratic candidate for the state General Assembly in 1854, (shortly after the separation of the former Howard or Western District of Anne Arundel County and the \"erection\"/establishment of Howard as the 22nd of the state's 23 counties), however losing to his opponent from the newly-dominant \"Know Nothing\" Party (also known as the American Party) during the political crises of the 1850s. Carroll then moved to New York City and while there, accepted a position as deputy clerk and United States Commissioner in the office of the clerk of the United States District Court. He stayed there until 1861, at the outbreak of the Civil War, when he returned to Maryland, where he then remained the rest of his life. When he returned to Maryland, Carroll purchased the \"Doughoregan Manor\", historic family estate in Howard County, near Ellicott City from his older brother Charles Carroll.\n\nCarroll was elected into the Maryland State Senate of the General Assembly of Maryland in 1867 and served two terms. He was elected President of the State Senate in 1874.\n\nIn 1875, Carroll became the Democratic Party nominee for Governor of Maryland, opposed by James Morrison Harris. He won by a 10,000-vote majority and was inaugurated as governor on January 12, 1876.\n\nThe Great Railroad Strike of 1877 began with a sudden cut in wages by the B. & O. Railroad's Board of Directors and President John Work Garrett, which caused workers to walk off the job in Martinsburg, West Virginia, and spread nationwide to the rest of the B. & O., as well as several other lines. Governor Carroll called up the 5th and 6th Regiments of the Maryland National Guard to stop railroad workers from striking in Cumberland, Hagerstown and in Frederick County's shops and roundhouses at Brunswick. Once the news spread by telegraph east, it touched off riots in Baltimore at the Mount Clare Shops and the yards at the B. & O.'s Camden Street Station, headquarters of the line.\n\nThe National Guard attempted to march from their armories to Camden Station—the Fifth Regiment from the armory in the assembly hall above the Richmond Market along North Howard Street in the northwest city, and the Sixth from their armory at North Front and East Fayette Streets, near Jonestown/Old Town. The Fifth marched south down Howard Street and the Sixth attempted to march south on Front Street along the east bank of the Jones Falls for a few blocks then west on East Baltimore Street, through the middle of the downtown business district (and avoided the obvious associations of marching along the waterfront of Pratt Street, as the 6th Massachusetts Regiment did 16 years before, with its tragic memories). Despite this precaution, each regiment had to again literally fight its way through the streets of the city, attacked by projectiles, rocks and angry mobs the entire way. Conflict gripped the city and Governor Carroll was powerless to stem the tide. Later, additional reinforcements of Federal troops were called in by newly elected 18th President Rutherford B. Hayes to restore order in Baltimore.\n\nIn later years, Governor Carroll served on the Howard County Board of Education and served in 1883 on an early grand jury that used both Caucasian and African American members.\n\nThe Governor was also a member of the District of Columbia Society of the Sons of the Revolution.\n\nCarroll was married twice, first to Anita Phelps (April 23, 1838 – March 24, 1873), daughter of Royal Phelps of New York, on April 24, 1856. They had nine children:\n\n\nCarroll was married secondly to Mary Carter Thompson (1847–1899), daughter of Judge Lucas P. Thompson, in April 1877 and had one son. As of 2012, Philip's grandchildren owned Doughoregan Manor, the family estate in Howard County.\n\nMary Thompson's sister Caroline Thompson was married to John Lee's older brother, Charles Carroll (1828–1895).\n\nCarroll died in Washington, D.C. and was buried at the New Cathedral Cemetery in Baltimore City, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "3531942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3531942", "title": "John Thomson Mason Jr.", "text": "John Thomson Mason Jr.\n\nJohn Thomson Mason Jr. (May 9, 1815 – March 28, 1873) was a U.S. Congressman from Maryland, representing the sixth district from 1841 to 1843.\n\nBorn at the Montpelier estate near Hagerstown, Maryland, Mason was educated by a private tutor and graduated from Princeton College in 1836. He studied law, was admitted to the bar, and commenced practice in Hagerstown in 1838.\n\nMason later served as a member of the Maryland House of Delegates in 1838 and 1839, and was elected as a Democrat to the Twenty-seventh Congress, serving one term from March 4, 1841 to March 3, 1843. He was a judge of the Maryland Court of Appeals from 1851 to 1857, and afterwards a collector of customs at Baltimore, Maryland, from 1857 to 1861. He moved to Annapolis, Maryland, and served as Secretary of State of Maryland from 1872 until his death in 1873.\n\nMason died on March 28, 1873 in Elkton, Maryland at age 57. He is interred in Rose Hill Cemetery (Maryland) in Hagerstown, Maryland.\n\nMason married Margaret Augusta Cowan in Alleghany City, Pennsylvania on December 14, 1842. The couple had four children:\n\n\nJohn Thomson Mason Jr. was a grandnephew of George Mason (1725–1792); grandson of Thomson Mason (1733–1785); nephew of Stevens Thomson Mason (1760–1803); son of John Thomson Mason (1765–1824) and Elizabeth Beltzhoover Mason (1781–1836); second cousin of Thomson Francis Mason (1785–1838); first cousin of Armistead Thomson Mason (1787–1819), John Thomson Mason (1787–1850), and James Murray Mason (1798–1871); and first cousin once removed of Stevens Thomson Mason (1811–1843).\n"}
{"id": "27173547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27173547", "title": "Kaare Frydenberg", "text": "Kaare Frydenberg\n\nKaare Frydenberg (born 30 April 1950) is a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born at Bærum Hospital, graduated from upper secondary school at Nadderud in 1969 and attended Oslo Commerce School for one year. In 1974 he graduated from the Norwegian School of Management with a siv.øk. degree.\n\nHe started his career in the media. He was assisting director of the newspaper \"Aftenposten\" from 1977 to 1987, and the chief executive officer of \"Dagens Næringsliv\" from 1987 to 1989, overseeing its name change from \"Norges Handels- og Sjøfartstidende\". From 1989 to 1996 he again worked for \"Aftenposten\", first as deputy CEO, then as CEO.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2000 Frydenberg was the CEO of Pripps Ringnes, an amalgamation of Pripps and Ringnes which in 2001 was bought by Carlsberg Breweries. From 2000 to 2005 he was the CEO of Posten Norge, the Norwegian postal service. During his time as CEO, the company went through significant changes, among others with sizeable downsizing and the integration of postal offices into grocery stores, dubbed \"Post i butikk\" (lit. post-in-store). The company also made moves in the market, such as the buying of smaller company Nor-Cargo, to compensate for the general decline in the sending of letters.\n\nFrydenberg was one of the best paid leaders of a Norwegian state-owned company, with a basic wage of and total income (with bonus and other fees) of NOK 2,923,738 in 2004. When the partially state-owned companies Telenor, Norsk Hydro, DnB NOR and Statoil are excluded, Frydenberg emerged as the best paid leader of a fully state-owned company. Right below Frydenberg was Bård Mikkelsen of Statkraft, Kjell Pedersen of Petoro, and John G. Bernander of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nIn 2005 Frydenberg started working as a partner in Saga Corporate Management. In this job, he has been loaned out to companies that need a temporary business executive. The best-known job since 2005 has been CEO of Scandinavian Property Development (SPDE). The company ventured into selling property at Fornebu, but the actual development was very slow. The company struggled with slim income and high loans. Frydenberg was brought in to replace the fired CEO Stein Haugbro on 1 September 2008, and resigned in March 2009.\n\nFrydenberg has also been chairman of ErgoGroup, Arcus, Asker og Bærums Budstikke, Dinamo Forlag, Hotel Continental, Oslo and NKI-gruppen, and a board member of \"Dagens Næringsliv\".\n\nHe is married and has two children, and resides at Bekkestua.\n"}
{"id": "15926235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15926235", "title": "Kazuyoshi Miura (businessman)", "text": "Kazuyoshi Miura (businessman)\n\nMiura was born in Yamanashi Prefecture in 1947. After dropping out of a high school in Yokohama, he was arrested for arson and served some years in a juvenile prison. He was suspected of the 1979 killing of his former lover Chizuko Shiraishi.\n\nMiura, a clothing importer who often traveled to the United States, was suspected of conspiring to kill his wife, on November 18, 1981, while visiting Los Angeles, California, United States. On that day an unknown assailant shot Miura in the right leg and his wife in the head while the two were in a Downtown Los Angeles parking lot. After the shooting, Kazumi Miura remained in a coma. She was flown back to Japan via a US Air Force hospital jet. She was blind, paralyzed, unconscious and subsisting on life-support machinery. She died almost a year to the day after the shooting. Kazumi Miura was the mother of a 13-month-old child.\n\nMiura said that street robbers killed his wife, and, while in the hospital, campaigned against violence in Los Angeles. Miura said that he would write letters to President Ronald Reagan and California governor Jerry Brown and ask the two to secure Los Angeles. The incident reinforced Japanese stereotypes about U.S. violence.\n\nIn 1984, the Japanese magazine \"Shūkan Bunshun\" published articles which indicated Miura had been involved in the killing of his wife. The articles revealed that he took out a life insurance policy on his wife worth the equivalent of US$1.4 million. In addition, an actress, who said she was Miura's lover, said that Miura asked her to kill his wife. Daryl Gates, the chief of the Los Angeles Police Department during the Miura incident, said that the department and Japanese police suspected Miura had arranged to have his wife killed. However, the shooter was never found and there was no physical evidence linking Miura to the murder.\n\nAccording to then Los Angeles District Attorney Ira Reiner, LAPD homicide detectives did not believe that Miura was the perpetrator, but rather that the events had been a \"vicious...street crime\". However one officer, Jimmy Sakoda, head of the Asian Crimes Squad, did not share the homicide detectives' conclusions. He took his concerns to Reiner who then began working with Japanese prosecutors. Reiner has stated that were it not for Sakoda's persistence the case might have been relegated to the unsolved, or cold case files.\n\nMiura was convicted of the murder and was sentenced to life imprisonment in Japan in 1994, upon which he promptly appealed to Tokyo High Court. After four years of deliberation, Tokyo High Court overturned the conviction and the resulting sentence, because they were not able to identify the assailant and thus could not prove conspiracy. In 2003, the Supreme Court also acquitted him of the charge, saying \"high court's judgment that there is reasonable doubt that he conspired with an unidentified person to kill his late wife is reasonable.\"\n\nUnder a 2004 California law, if convicted, the time already served would be credited against any potential sentence.\n\nCalifornia authorities learned that Miura frequently visited U.S. territory on business, and waited until he made a trip to the island of Saipan in the U.S. Northern Mariana Islands, where he was arrested on February 22, 2008. In Saipan he began fighting extradition to California\nA former Federal prosecutor noted that the 27 years since the crime could help Miura's defense. \"Witness memories don't get better with time,\" she said in an interview with the International Herald Tribune. Los Angeles prosecutors announced that they identified the actual sniper, though there was no move by the prosecutors to arrest the deadly sniper.\n\nThe legal battle to avoid getting extradited to California, which has the death penalty, continued until late September when the Los Angeles Superior Court dropped the murder charges, due to prohibition of double jeopardy, but found conspiracy charges, which do not have capital punishment, valid. Miura gave up the fight to extradition and was transported to Los Angeles, California, arriving in the early morning of October 10, 2008, That night, according to an announcement by the police, he committed suicide by hanging himself in his cell. L.A. County coroner has not determined a cause of death as of October 21, 2008.\nAccording to a report by an independent pathologist hired by the defense attorney, the evidence shows Miura was murdered in LA jail cell rather than committed suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "23139198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23139198", "title": "Leo Morandi", "text": "Leo Morandi\n\nLeo Morandi (14 September 1923 – 2 May 2009) was a promoter of the new post-World War II commercial ceramics industry of Sassuolo, Italy. At first he collaborated with local ceramic producers (Marazzi Group) and with Industries D'Agostino in Salerno, Italy. In 1954, after selling an innovative patent to Ceramiche Marazzi (biscuit selection unit), he was able to initiate startup of his own equipment supply business. Leo Morandi's innovations, knowledge, and experience aided growth and advancement throughout the Sassuolo ceramic companies, which in the 1960s constituted the worldwide known \"Sassuolo tile district\".\n\nIn particular, he used two electrodes to select the biscuit; the passage of electricity through the material showed that it was not suitable for the successive glazing.\n\nThe production chain for ceramic tiles was then mainly handcrafted and labour-intensive, but Leo Morandi's inventions started the successful automation of various units. After the initial years he was able to open a distinct efficient production unit. Morandi was a reserved man and did not like publicity. He involved his workers and customers in the improvement of his inventions and innovations.\n\nCeramic industry equipment examples include: automated floor tile edge glaze remover, automated packaging (floor tiles where historically bound with thin iron wire, before shipment), specialized silk screen machines, the peristaltic pump, the transport line, the hydraulic press, tile overturning mechanism, press reception unit, and glazing applications done with disk booths. These basic tile processing elements are still in use.\n\nLeo Morandi began exporting these proven automated Italian ceramic industry innovations to Spain, allowing advancement of two primary ceramic industry clusters.\n\n1945 - 1 December Licence n.424701\nDevice to abrade automatically the enamel from the edges of the floor tiles for covering.\n1958 - 14 June Licence n.592220 \nSystem to fasten with iron threads tiles of geometrical shape. \n1958 - 1 August Licence n.598125 \nMachine to remove automatically from the tiles the enamel strains left on the edges during the humid glazing \n1958 - 1 August Licence n.593124 \nDevice to brush tiles on both sides with a single passage.\n1958 - 2 August Licence n.593126 \nAutomatic machine to remove from the tiles the slobbers left by the stamps on the edges.\n1958 - 2 August Licence n.593127 \nPump for dense liquids, particularly for vitreous enamel in watery suspension for the ceramic industry.\n1958 - 25 September Licence n.595789 \nMachine to retrieve the vitreous enamel of the tiles which result defective after the humid glazing.\n1959 - 6 April Licence n.606642 \nProcedure to manufacture enameled tiles with dull edges.\n1960 - 7 April Licence n.629034 \nAutomatic machine in order to collect into a pile humid tiles coming from the press.\n1961 - 7 April Licence n.646867 \nConveyor for ceramic floor tiles.\n1961 - 7 April Licence n.646866 \nDevice to turn over the tiles on the conveyor.\n1961 - 15 April Licence n.647228 \nMachine to divide the tiles by thickness.\n1962 - 28 March Licence n.685219 \nHydraulic system, consisting in a press actioned by mostly self-feeding cylinders.\n1968 - 13 March Licence n.832329 \nAutomatic machine to apply screen printed decorations to tiles.\n1973 - 6 Decembers Licence n.1001087 \nDevice to distribute the tiles being part of a row.\n1973 - 6 Decembers Licence 1001086 \nDevice to empty the baking supports of tiles.\n\n1978 - 12 April Licence n.1104063 \nPerfected device with rotary discs to nebulize and evenly distribute enamels to be applied on tiles. \n1978 - 3 July Licence n.28979B\nGlazing cabin with rotary discs to nebulize and evenly distribute enamels to be applied on tiles.\n\n\nIl distretto ceramico di Sassuolo\" \n"}
{"id": "35953191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35953191", "title": "List of Sony Walkman products", "text": "List of Sony Walkman products\n\nThe following is a list of Sony Walkman products (but does not include cassette tape devices).\n\nSony expanded MiniDisc's possibilities with the introduction of NetMD (NetworkMD). These allowed the use of a PC to convert music from CDs or MP3s into ATRAC3 format, and use a USB cable to transfer the music to the MiniDisc at a much faster rate than was possible when using a line-in cable.\n\nThe MZ-N10 was released in 2002. It was Sony's '10th Anniversary' product, released 10 years after the introduction of the MiniDisc format in 1992. The case was made from a magnesium alloy, and the unit featured a built-in lithium-ion battery which provided 24 hours of battery life. The MZ-N10 allowed music to be transferred from a PC at up to 64 times actual playback speed, not including the time required for audio re-encoding. It was also the first MD Walkman to incorporate the ATRAC DSP TYPE S codec, and is today (2006) the lightest recording MD Walkman ever produced. The accompanying 10th anniversary playback-only MiniDisc Walkman, the MZ-E10, was also released. It is the lightest MD Walkman ever produced, weighing 55 g (including built-in rechargeable battery) with a thickness of 9.9 mm.\n\nIn 2004, Sony introduced the Hi-MD format. Hi-MD Walkmans use 1 GB Hi-MD discs in the same form-factor as regular MiniDiscs, and allow 1 GB of files and/or audio to be stored per disc. They also accept regular MiniDiscs, which can be initialized in Hi-MD mode for 305 MB capacity per disc (with the added ability to store audio and data, like Hi-MD discs).\n\nUnlike NetMD, Hi-MD Walkmans allow two-way digital transfers to and from PCs virtually unrestricted. Hi-MD also allows the option to record and transfer audio in lossless linear PCM on standard MiniDiscs and Hi-MD discs. This offers sound quality equal to CD (as opposed to lossy ATRAC codecs used on standard MiniDisc/ NetMD).\n\nHi-MD Walkmans introduced from 2005 onwards allowed direct playback of MP3s without the need to transcode the MP3s to ATRAC format. However, SonicStage is required for transfer onto the disc itself. Playable audio cannot be transferred to the devices without SonicStage.\n\nThe NW-MS7 was released mid-1999 as Sony's first foray into the portable solid state music player industry. This first model shipped with a white 64MB MagicGate Memorystick and built-in battery, selling it alongside the NW-E3 (64 MB built-in and using two AAA battery for 4-5 hours playtime). The player could only play ATRAC formatted files. The user needed to transfer songs with bundled software OpenMG Jukebox (only works with Win98SE and later known as SonicStage). Any files not in the ATRAC format (i.e. MP3s) needed to be converted before they could be transferred and played.\n\nThe Network Walkman line was later updated with the NW-MS9/MS11. These came bundled with either 64MB/128MB MagicGate memory sticks and used a Gumstick type battery. Software continued to use OpenMG.\n\nThe NW-MS70D had 256MB of built-in flash memory. It could also be expanded by its MagicGate MemoryStick Duo port. However, at the time, the Memory Stick PRO Duo had not yet been released. So therefore the NW-MS70D maximum capacity would be 384MB with the additional memory stick. The other downside to it was that it was incredibly expensive, costing as much as a 15 GB iPod. It also used a very buggy software, Sonicstage, and only played Atrac3, Atrac3plus and WAV files. However, it was the smallest digital audio player at that time. It was also solidly built with an aluminium shell. It boasted a 44-hour battery life. Despite a heavy marketing campaign, its sales were limited.\n\nThe alternate model, the NW-MS90D, used the same software as NW-MS70D, and had a maximum capacity of 640 MB. It too was also extremely expensive. The most eminent change was the 512 MB inbuilt memory and its new black shell. Due to its price and limited capacity, it was still largely ignored by the general public.\n\nSony's first attempt at equalling the iPod's success was the NW-HD1, which was smaller and was advertised as having better sound quality than the iPod at the time. However, the unit would only play Sony's proprietary format, ATRAC3, whereas other players on the market would play the much more widely used MP3 format without having to be converted to ATRAC3. Sony did upgrade the HD1 to play MP3s but it still needed SonicStage to transfer the files. The NW-HD1 did not sell as well as Sony had hoped. Its successors, the NW-HD3 and NW-HD5, also failed to make a major dent in the iPod's sales.\n\nThe successor to the hard disk-based NW-HD1, the NW-HD3 was a very similar design; however, despite the fact that the unit would play MP3s natively, the PC software was still buggy, and the unit was therefore equally poorly received.\n\nSony's next model, the NW-HD5, was an updated design from the HD1 / HD3, and boasted a simpler control system, a user-removable lithium-ion battery, better file format compatibility, a unique \"Follow Turn Display\" that would automatically align itself based on how the player was held on startup, and updated software. A main feature was its advertised running time of 40 hours, when using low-quality format settings, i.e., 48 kbit/s ATRAC3 files, and no player-based audio enhancements (although the player does include these). Playback of 128 kbit/s MP3s was rated at 30 hours. The player was available in black, silver and red and was not sold in the Canadian market.\n\nUnfortunately, the NW-HD5 was shipped with a cosmetic design flaw which meant that the buttons developed small visible cracks under their plastic coating. Although this did not affect functionality, many customers complained. Sony United Kingdom Limited allowed owners to send the units back to be re-fitted with slightly raised, crack-resistant buttons. Perhaps because of this problem, the NW-HD5 was on the market for a very short time before being pulled in preparation for the next model.\n\nIn January 2006, the NW-HD5 became unavailable as a normal purchase from retail electronics stores and was relegated to online auction sites and used-electronics warehouses as a consumer item. Eventually the whole of the Network Walkman line would be discontinued for Sony's new solution.\n\nThe NW-A series Walkman is a digital music player available in 6 (NW-A1000), 8 (NW-A1200) and 20 gigabyte (NW-A3000) versions and features an EL-technology screen. Battery life can reach 20 and 35 hours respectively. The player supports ATRAC3, MP3, WMA and from firmware version 3.00 it also supports AAC.\n\nThe primary means of putting music on this device is to use Sony software: SonicStage and Connect Player (now withdrawn due to too many problems). The software only works on Microsoft Windows. Other common platforms such as macOS and Linux are not supported. SonicStage has received much criticism. It is only possible to move tracks from the music player to the PC's hard drive, and thereby from one music player to another, if each device/computer is \"authorized\" to the user's account with the Connect Store for their country. Users from countries that do not have the Connect Store service are currently limited to one device/computer.\n\nThere are a number of features to select music according to a variety of criteria. The \"Artist link\" function prompts the Walkman to search, find and display similar artists in that genre. There are two new shuffle modes. By selecting \"My Favourite Shuffle\", the device automatically selects the 100 most listened to songs and plays them at random. The \"Time Machine Shuffle\" function randomly selects a year and plays all of the songs from that particular year currently held on the device. A recent firmware update (V3.00) added the \"Artist Link Shuffle\" function to the list of Intelligent Shuffle modes, along with a clock and calendar.\n\nReleased in July 2007, this was a line of 1 GB (\"NWD-B103/B103F\") and 2 GB (\"NWD-B105/105F\") multifunction MP3 player and voice recording function. It was the firm's first-ever MP3 player to be liberated from the SonicStage software, but it has been shorn of the ability to play back ATRAC and AAC music files.\n\nThe Auto-Transfer option allowed this Walkman to search for all the MP3 files on the PC and then copy these files directly to the Walkman. It also could record CDs directly from a Sony compatible Hifi system via USB connection without any PC (the NWD-B105 also supported WMA files).\n\nIt also came with a three-line colour display; the voice recorder (MP3) came with bit rates of low (96 kbit/s), mid (128 kbit/s) and high. Models with the built-in FM tuner (\"F\") had 30 preset stations with a frequency of 87.5–108.0 MHz, with the capability to record and play FM content. The five preset equaliser also had a custom setting option.\n\nThe E series was a pure MP3 player without a large LCD display to play videos. It had a similar design to a USB flashdrive, and it was offered in many different colors. The E020 series released in Japan featured a changeable case.\n\nIn August 2006 Sony released the NW-E00X series, filled with 512MB, 1 GB or 2 GB of flash-memory. Very compact, this Walkman offered a battery life of up to 28 hours. It had a built-in USB key for easy file transfer. The battery charge/recharge was through USB connection. It was also equipped with a bright and clear 1 line OLED display for easy navigation. Dimensions were: width 24.6mm, height 79.0mm, depth 13.6mm and weight 25.0 grams.\n\nSupported multiple codec ATRAC (\"ATRAC3 66\" kbit/s, 105 kbit/s, 132 kbit/s, \"ATRAC3plus\" 48 kbit/s, 64 kbit/s, 256 kbit/s) MP3 and WMA (and later AAC), via SonicStage 3.4 software for music management and transfers of tracks for Windows.\n\nThis series also worked with Linux and Mac using the free software originally called \"NW-E00X MP3 File Manager\", that eventually become in \"Symphonic\", and now \"JSymphonic\". JSymphonic is an open source, cross-platform program (that runs on any Windows/Linux/Mac machine with java 1.5 installed), that, once copied into the Walkman enables the transfer of several audio files, including MP3, to/from several flash based Walkman Series. It can be downloaded from here and is in continuous development.\n\nIn March 2007, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, some countries of Europe and Canada had the Walkman NW-E01X series (NW-E013, NW-E015 and NW-E016) a small USB flash player. Weighing only 23 g, the NW-E01X was available in capacities from 1 to 4 GB and came in five colors: pink, violet, teal, black, and gold. Its features included a rechargeable lithium-ion battery, built-in FM tuner, a three-line color OLED display, calendar and time function, and Clear Stereo and Clear Bass technologies to enhance the audio quality. A release date and pricing for the NW-E01X in the United States was also unknown.\n\nThe NW-E02X series, were released in Japan in March 2008. The memory sizes were 1 GB for the NW-E023, 2 GB for the NW-E025, and 4 GB for the NW-E026. Each size was available in a five color assortment: white, pink, green, red, and black. The faces of the players were designed for admit changeable color and design templates. The supplied earbuds were the MDR-EX82 earphones in white for the white, pink, and green player and black for the red and black player.\n\nThese could play ATRAC, PCM, WMA, MP3, and AAC, (DRM'ed WMA and AAC couldn't be played). As in older models the connector, was the standard male USB. The screen was LCD and displayed three lines along with an optional album-jacket function. It had a five-band equalizer and Sony's \"clear stereo\" which means pre-set EQ function.\n\nThey had a built-in Li-Ion cell which had a quick-charge for approximately three hours playback from a 3-minute plug-in and a complete charge takes about one hour. Sony mentioned the capability of FM reception, (Japan band of 76 to 90 MHz), usually devices with an \"F\" at the end of the model number. Dimensions were 83.7 × 22.3 × 16.2mm and weigh 30 grams.\n\nAvailable accessories for all E series included lanyards, armbands, A/C adapters, metallic and silicone cases.\n\nThe Sony \"NW-S700\" series is the first flash-based Network Walkman with built-in Active noise control technology. It blocks surrounding noise with integrating mic in its EX-earphone. This player is one of only a few other DAPs that have a noise cancellation feature at this size. The earphone has a proprietary design specifically made for this player, thus making it impossible to plug into other DAPs, even the ones that come from Sony.\nThis Walkman has a small OLED screen capable displaying album art and some text information about the song and the player features. The S700 comes in 1 GB (NW-S703), 2 GB (NW-S705), and 4 GB (NW-S706) capacities; some countries sell the 2 GB and 1 GB models only. Selected models are also equipped with a Stereo FM Tuner.\n\nThe Sony NWZ-A826 is one of many MP3 players belonging to the Walkman Z-series. This edition features 4 GB flash memory, as well as a large monitor; in addition the MP3 player offers several audio options in a housing with a thickness of 9.3 mm. The EX earplugs come packaged. There are four audio options: Clear Stereo, Clear Bass, VPT Surround and DSEE Sound Enhancer.The ear plugs are a combination of earplugs and a normal earset in one.\n\nThe W series is a wireless MP3 player built into a set of water-resistant headphones with 2 GB of internal memory. It can play 11 hours of music and can \"quick-charge\" for three minutes to yield up to 90 minutes of playback. It can play back MP3, AAC (unprotected only), and WMA (subscription included) files. It features Zappin, which allows the user to browse through tracks by playing a snippet of the chorus of each song.\n\nThe Sony NW-A800 series is a video-enabled Network Walkman player. This series has a metallic build. A chrome-like strip surrounds the edge of the device, and accenting of the same style surrounds the buttons and makes up the logos on the front. It features a QVGA display with ID3 tag and album art support.\n\nIt is available in 2 GB, 4 GB, and 8 GB capacities. The interface is similar to that of a mobile phone. The screen is a QVGA (240×320) colour LCD and can be used either horizontally or vertically. The Lithium-ion rechargeable battery can last up to 30 hours for music and 8 hours for video.\n\nThe NW-A800 has been released in the European Union, Asia, New Zealand, and North America. As of 19 May 2007, Sony Canada has released the 8 GB and 4 GB models. The 2 GB model was released on 13 June 2007.\n\nThis player is an ATRAC Audio Device which relies on SonicStage to manage music. For photo and video management it uses Sony's Image Converter.\n\nWhile hardware wise is the same as NW-A800, this series introduces some substantial changes in its media manager software. First, this player introduce drag and drop feature to transfer media. This update eliminates the need of Sony's proprietary SonicStage program and uses Windows Media Player instead. Also, this player no longer supports the ATRAC format.\n\nSoon, Sony launched another series of Walkman video player, type S, standing for \"specialized\". This was considered as a lower end product to Walkman A series.\n\nAt the end of 2007 and the beginning of 2008, Sony tried to further extend the product line of Walkman, with the debut of A910 series, A820 series. Among them, A910 and A820 should be the successor to A810, which feature larger LCD display and memory, and built-in wireless function (for A820 only).\n\nThe NW-A919, a 16GB video walkman with a digital '1seg' TV tuner. The player has a touch screen, measures 47.2mm×86.0mm×12.3mm and will be available in black or silver. It was released in Japan in November 2007.\n\nIn March 2008, Sony debuted A720 and A820 series in the United States. These two models seemed to have exactly the same external design. The only difference appeared that the A820 series was equipped with a Bluetooth module which can be used to connect wireless headphones. The upgraded A820 and A720 had a 2.4\" LCD display and a selection of memory from 4 gigabytes to 16 gigabyte. This also includes the popular 8 GB version. In some regions the package will contain a pair of Sony In-Ear Earbuds with sound-reduction technology. The EX85 series earbuds are included in the US retail package. It will not include an FM radio, additional memory storage, or a voice recorder. After Sony upgraded the Walkman A model, the A810 series was no longer viewable at SonyStyle online store.\n\nThe Sony Walkman X series was a touchscreen audio and video player from Sony. It has a OLED touch screen, internet access through Wi-Fi and digital noise-cancelling as well as applications for Slacker and YouTube. It is available in 16 GB and 32 GB versions.\n\nMedia files can be transferred using programs such as Media Manager, Windows Media Player 11 (both programs are on the CD), and Content Transfer (Sony made), but they can also be dragged and dropped from the computer to the device using a file manager such as Windows Explorer (if drag and drop is used, some id tag information is not included, such as the year). If MTP is not installed on the computer, the Walkman switches to UMS/MSC mode.\n\nLike all Sony players sold outside Japan since 2007 (since the NWZ-A810 series), the player is not gapless (there is a gap between tracks, unless WAV/PCM audio files are used), it does not support lossless compression, and there is no on-the-go playlist feature (playlists can only be created on a computer).\n"}
{"id": "37259455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37259455", "title": "Master of Business Engineering", "text": "Master of Business Engineering\n\nA Master of Business Engineering (MBE) is a two year master's degree. Usually, the program combines management science, business administration, law and economics with technology and engineering. The content of this academic degree is comparable with those of a Master of Business Administration with additional engineering and technology content. It is required to hold a bachelor's degree in business administration or engineering to get admission to this Master's program.\n"}
{"id": "34592033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34592033", "title": "Newton King", "text": "Newton King\n\nNewton King (21 July 1855 – 27 July 1927) was a New Zealand auctioneer, merchant and businessman. He was born in New Plymouth, New Zealand, on 21 July 1855.\n\nKing was born in New Plymouth into a leading local family. His father, Thomas King, was a Member of Parliament and Provincial Treasurer on the Taranaki Provincial Council, as well as being a prominent local businessman. His brother, Truby King was a leading doctor and paediatrician, and founder of the Plunket Society.\n\nAfter education at William Crompton's school, he became a clerk at the mercantile and shipping company Webster Brothers, before co-founding his own stock and station agency with Robert Bauchope in 1880. The new business, Newton King Limited, took off and expanded, becoming leading rural auctioneers and dealing in both seed and grain and in imports and exports. In 1900, retail branches were established throughout Taranaki. In 1888 King was one of the founders of the Crown Dairy Company, along with James George and Richard Cock, and by 1897 it was New Zealand second largest dairy product company.\n\nNewton King was a strong supporter of development of New Plymouth harbour and was chairman of the harbour board from 1917 to 1922. A wharf completed in 1925 was named after him. Newton King died at his home, Brooklands, in 1927, survived by his wife, three sons and two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "1658116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658116", "title": "Nothing in Common", "text": "Nothing in Common\n\nNothing in Common is a 1986 American comedy-drama film directed by Garry Marshall. It stars Tom Hanks and Jackie Gleason in what would prove to be Gleason's final film role; he was suffering from terminal cancer.\n\nThe film was not a great financial success in initial release, but it became more popular as Hanks' fame grew. It is considered by some to be a pivotal role in Hanks' career because it marked his transition from less developed comedic roles to leads in more serious stories, and many critics also praised Gleason's performance.\n\nHappy-go-lucky advertising executive David Basner, who recently got a promotion at his Chicago ad agency, returns to work from a vacation. He is carefree, until his parents split up, after 36 years of marriage. It soon becomes apparent that he must care for his aging, bitter father Max, as well as support his emotionally fragile mother Lorraine, especially since his father has also just been fired from his 35-year career in the garment industry. Although his ex-girlfriend, Donna, is sympathetic, she also tells him he needs to \"grow up,\" but David fears that if he tried to be less child-like, his advertising work could be adversely affected. At work, David is developing a commercial for Colonial Airlines, owned by the rich and bullish Andrew Woolridge. A successful ad campaign would likely gain David a promotion to partner in his company. David develops a relationship with Woolridge's daughter, Cheryl Ann Wayne. His father is well aware of David's playboy nature. Asking at one point whether his son is in bed with a woman, Max adds: \"Anybody you know?\"\n\nThe parents separately each begin to rely more on David, frequently calling him on the phone. His mother needs help moving to a new apartment. His father needs to be driven to an eye doctor. Late one night, David's mother calls to be rescued from a bar after going out on a date, having become frightened when the man tried to kiss her goodnight. At the bar, David's mother confides that his father Max had cheated on her and humiliated her in their marriage. An enraged David goes to confront Max. Their argument ends with David saying: \"Tomorrow I'm shooting a commercial about a family who loves each other, who cares about each other. I'm fakin' it.\" The next day, David is distracted by his problems with his father, affecting his work. As a peace offering, David offers to take Max to a nightclub to hear some of his favored jazz music. While there, David accidentally discovers that his father has been dealing with diabetes and his foot has gangrene.\n\nMax must have surgery. Beforehand, he and Lorraine share thoughts about their life together, and she condemns him for his treatment of her. Alone, Max sobs in regret. At the agency, Andrew Woolridge insists that David accompany him to New York to promote the new ad campaign for his airline. David refuses, saying he wants to be with his father, who is scheduled for surgery. After Woolridge complains and slaps David on his arm, David loses his temper with this important client, and loses the account. The next day, David accompanies his dad to the operating room. His boss Charlie is sympathetic, relating an experience as a son dealing with an aging father and assures David that he will personally smooth things over with Woolridge, so David can take time to be with his father. Max has two toes amputated. When he goes home from the hospital, David pushes his wheelchair. Max tells him: \"You were the last person I thought would ever come through for me.\" Later, David recovers his job and gets to show Max what his work is about.\n\n\nThe film received mixed reviews from critics and audiences. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 57% out of 23 professional critics gave the film a positive review, with an average score of 5.9/10.\n\nRoger Ebert of The Chicago Sun-Times awarded the film a 2.5 out of 4 stars and stated in his review \"The movie splits in two, starting out as a wise-guy comedy and ending up as the heart-breaking story of a yuppie who is trying to understand his bitter, lonely parents. Movies aren't novels.\"\n\nThe movie inspired a short-lived NBC sitcom in 1987 that was scheduled to follow the highly rated \"Cheers.\" Due to audience drop-off, the sitcom was cancelled. The series starred Todd Waring as David Basner and Bill Macy as his father Max Basner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51354866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51354866", "title": "Omar Albertto", "text": "Omar Albertto\n\nOmar Albertto (more often known simply as, Omar) is a Los Angeles-based agent for the fashion industry, who has specialized in representing ethinically diverse male models. He was the founder of the highly influential agency, Omar's Men, which had more than a million dollars of revenue its first year of operation (1987), with continued growth thru the mid-90s. It included a roster of male models from The Philippines, Turkey, Brazil, Cambodia, America, etc.\nHe currently owns and runs, \"JustOmar\", a modeling agency and branding company in Southern California.\n\nAlbertto is known for finding new talents and often credited with originally introducing \"real people\" into the U.S. fashion market. In a 1988 LA Times article by Jeanine Stein, he was quoted, \"I want to have an agency of real people, not models. They are real, everyday people with great style\".\n\nDuring the last three decades his Men have appeared in almost every prestigious international fashion magazine including; L’Uomo Vogue, GQ (magazine), Arena Magazine and Esquire (magazine) - and have appeared in campaigns for Ralph Lauren, Versace, Gucci, Armani and Dolce & Gabbana. Many have also segued into successful acting careers. Thru the years he has introduced (via modeling) the actors Djimon Honsou (Academy Award Nominee), Antonio Sabàto Jr. and Tyrese Gibson - the star of The Fast and the Furious franchise films.\n\nHis models have worked extensively with photographers such as Bruce Weber, Mario Testino, Matthew Rolston and the late Herb Ritts. Ritts once used Albertto himself to appear in a Gap advertisement that appeared seventy-five feet high above Times Square in New York City.\n\nOmar's first job as a modeling booker began in 1981 with New York's L'image agency where he worked with a young Paul Fisher (present-day star of Remodeled on The CW ). A couple of years later they both moved to California and found work with EastWest Models. Paul represented the girls division and Omar ran the Men's side of the company. After just over a year Paul left the agency to begin his own firm, It Models.\n\nIn 1987, Omar left as well and founded \"Omar's Men\" joining Fisher (and It Models) in an adjoined complex in Hollywood's Photo District. According to the Los Angeles Times, the two agents combined gross revenue was\n$15,000,000 annually. The men's department soon outgrew itself and Albertto opened an East Coast hub of the company out of Herb Ritt's studio office in Manhattan.\nOmar has since headed the Men's Divisions of the agencies, Warning Model Management, Q Models, and Talent Rock Entertainment and was briefly president of ITN Fashion TV.\n\nOn multiple occasions Albertto has cast models in large-scale projects (including Vogue and Dolce & Gabbana) for iconic photographer Mario Testino, who was quoted in Business Wire as saying, \"Omar's eye is uncanny, he never misses. He never steers me wrong.\"\n\nWith his latest incarnation, the agency JustOmar, he is presenting new faces, artists and photographers such as; designer/model Bryant Brown, model Chris Theo, artist/model Connor Tingley, artist/model David Caffrey, architect/model Jose Laguna and Los Angeles photographer, Josie Perez. He has also launched a division specifically for product branding.\n\nIn recent years, Omar Albertto has also begun getting more involved in TV and film production. In 2013, he (and Brian Lewis) produced an independent romantic drama film entitled, \"Things Never Said\", for Ohio Street Pictures. The project starred Shanola Hampton, Omari Hardwick and Elimu Nelson and was written/directed by Charles Murray. The picture had a limited theatrical release in the United States and also appeared on Hulu TV.\n\nIn 2016, Omar collaborated with fashion photographer Andrew MacPherson to produce one of the first ever fashion magazine shoots involving an autistic model, in this case, 18 year old RJ Peete (son of football player Rodney Peete and actress Holly Robinson Peete. The images (and Omar in person) later appeared on an airing of the program For Peete's Sake on the Oprah Winfrey Network.\n\nIn 1977, while attending a party at New York's infamous Studio 54 where he was a regular, nineteen year old Omar was discovered by a scout for Elite Model Management. This was an encounter that changed his life drastically. For the next four years, he worked regularly doing print and runway in Paris, Milan and London. All the while, frequently returning to New York to attend Studio 54 on the weekends. Although never officially retiring as a model, Omar began his first official employment as an agent in 1981 at L'image Models on Madison Avenue.\n\nOmar Albertto who is \"non-religious\" of Bremudan and Jewish-Ethiopian descent, grew up in Panama, where he was born. He was a competitive amateur swimmer between the ages of nine and eighteen, representing Panama as a member of the club, Los Pulpos Da Villa. In 1976 he went to Florida's Disney World on vacation and never returned, defecting to the United States. He graduated from Brooklyn's Midwood High School in 1977.\n"}
{"id": "1352948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1352948", "title": "Operating leverage", "text": "Operating leverage\n\nOperating leverage is a measure of how revenue growth translates into growth in operating income. It is a measure of leverage, and of how risky, or volatile, a company's operating income is.\n\nThere are various measures of operating leverage,\nwhich can be interpreted analogously to financial leverage.\n\nOne analogy is \"fixed costs + variable costs = total costs ..similar to.. debt + equity = assets\". This analogy is partly motivated because (for a given amount of debt) debt servicing is a fixed cost. This leads to two measures of operating leverage:\n\nOne measure is fixed costs to total costs:\nCompare to debt to value, which is\n\nAnother measure is fixed costs to variable costs:\nCompare to debt to equity ratio:\n\nBoth of these measures depend on sales: if the unit variable cost is constant, then as sales increase, operating leverage (as measured by fixed costs to total costs or variable costs) increases.\n\nContribution margin is a measure of operating leverage: the higher the contribution margin is (the lower variable costs are as a percentage of total costs), the faster the profits increase with sales. Note that unlike other measures of operating leverage, in the linear Cost-Volume-Profit Analysis Model, contribution margin is a fixed quantity, and does not change with Sales.\nContribution = Sales - Variable Cost\n\nOperating leverage can also be measured in terms of change in operating income for a given change in sales (revenue).\n\nThe Degree of Operating Leverage (DOL) can be computed in a number of equivalent ways; one way it is defined as the ratio of the percentage change in Operating Income for a given percentage change in Sales :\n\nThis can also be computed as Total Contribution Margin over Operating Income:\n\nThe above equivalence follows as the relative change in operating income with one more unit dX equals the contribution margin divided by operating income while the relative change in sales with one more unit dX equals price divided by revenue (or, in other words, 1 / X with X being the quantity). \n\nAlternatively, as Contribution Margin Ratio over Operating Margin:\n\nFor instance, if a company has sales of 1,000,000 units, at price $50, unit variable cost of $10, and fixed costs of $10,000,000, then its unit contribution is $40, its Total Contribution is $40m, and its Operating Income is $30m, so its DOL is\nThis could also be computed as 80%=$40m/$50m Contribution Margin Ratio divided by 60%=$30m/$50m Operating Margin.\n\nIt currently has Sales of $50m and Operating Income of $30m, so additional Unit Sales (say of 100,000 units) yield $5m more Sales and $4m more Operating Income: a 10% increase in Sales and a 10% formula_9 13% increase in Operating Income.\n\nAssuming the model, for a given level of sales, the DOL is higher the higher fixed costs are (an example): for a given level of sales and profit, a company with higher fixed costs has a lower Operating Income, and hence its Operating Income increases more rapidly with Sales than a company with lower fixed costs (and correspondingly lower contribution margin and higher Operating Income).\n\nIf a company has no fixed costs (and hence breaks even at zero), then its DOL equals 1: a 10% increase in Sales yields a 10% increase in Operating Income, and its operating margin equals its contribution margin:\n\nDOL is highest near the break-even point; in fact, at the break-even point, DOL is undefined, because it is infinite: an increase of 10% in sales, say, increases Operating Income for 0 to some positive number (say, $10), which is an infinite (or undefined) percentage change; in terms of margins, its Operating Margin is zero, so its DOL is undefined.\nSimilarly, for a very small positive Operating Income (say, $.1), a 10% increase in sales may increase Operating Income to $10, a 100x (or 9,900%) increase, for a DOL of 990; in terms of margins, its Operating Margin is very small, so its DOL is very large.\n\nDOL is closely related to the rate of increase in the operating margin: as sales increase past the break-even point, operating margin rapidly increases from 0% (reflected in a high DOL), and as sales increase, asymptotically approaches the contribution margin: thus the rate of change in operating margin decreases, as does the DOL, which asymptotically approaches 1.\n\nExamples of companies with high operating leverage include companies with high R&D costs, such as pharmaceuticals: it can cost billions to develop a drug, but then pennies to produce it. Hence from a life cycle cost analysis perspective, the ratio of preproduction costs (e.g. design widgets) versus incremental production costs (e.g. produce a widget) is a useful measure of operating leverage.\n\nOutsourcing a product or service is a method used to change the ratio of fixed costs to variable costs in a business. Outsourcing can be used to change the balance of this ratio by offering a move from fixed to variable cost and also by making variable costs more predictable.\n\n"}
{"id": "1608716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608716", "title": "Partners HealthCare", "text": "Partners HealthCare\n\nPartners HealthCare is a Boston-based non-profit hospital and physicians network that includes Brigham and Women’s Hospital (BWH) and Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), two of the nation’s most prestigious teaching institutions. It was founded in 1994 with H. Richard Nesson, MD, former president of Brigham and Women’s Hospital as CEO of Partners HealthCare and Samuel O. Thier, MD, formerly president of Massachusetts General Hospital as president. According to \"The Boston Globe\", by 2008, Partners became Massachusetts' \"largest private employer and its biggest healthcare provider, treating more than a third of hospital patients in the Boston metropolitan area\".\n\nIn 1994, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital were brought together by Partners founding co-chairs John H. McArthur and Ferdinand \"Moose\" Colloredo-Mansfeld. Jack Connors succeeded them as chair in 1996.\n\nIn April 2017, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts announced that Partners HealthCare System and one of its hospitals, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, agreed to pay a $10 million fine to resolve allegations that a stem cell research lab fraudulently obtained federal grant funding.\nIn May 2017, Partners announced they would be cutting more than $600 million in expenses over the next three years in an effort to control higher costs and to become more efficient. The cost-cutting initiative is called Partners 2.0, and the plan will look to reduce costs in research, care delivery, revenue collection, and supply chain. The plan will begin on October 1, 2017 and will eliminate jobs. The company lost $108 million in 2016.\n\nIn February 2018, Partners announced that 100 coders would have their jobs outsourced to India in a cost saving move. This is all part of the non-profit hospital and physicians network's three-year plan to reduce $500 million to $800 million in overhead costs.\n\nIn February 2018, the state of Massachusetts Public Health Council formally signed off on the acquisition of Massachusetts Eye and Ear. The deal was formalized on April 1, 2018.In a notice published on April 2, 2018, Mass. Eye and Ear's President John Fernandez announce the finalization of the agreement to make MEE a part of the Partners HealthCare hospital and physicians network.\n\nEdward P. Lawrence, a retired partner at the Boston law firm Ropes & Gray LLP replaced Jack Connors as Chairman in 2012. Scott M. Sperling became Chairman in 2018.  \n\nJack Connors, the \"Boston businessman and power broker\" was the \"highest profile figure\" at Partners HealthCare System Inc. from 1996 to 2012. Connors and William C. Van Faasen, former CEO of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, co-chaired a business consortium that pushed for the state’s universal health coverage law. Connors \"worked behind the scenes\" to get the Massachusetts health care reform law of 2006 passed.\n\nPartners board members have included Earl M. Collier, Yolonda L. Colson, M.D. (Brigham and Women’s Hospital), Anne Finucane (Bank of America), Susan Hockfield (former MIT President), David W. Rattner, M.D. (Massachusetts General Hospital), Charles K. Gifford (Bank of America), Richard E. Holbrook (former Chairman and CEO, Eastern Bank), Albert A. Holman, III (Chestnut Partners Inc., investment banking), Wycliffe Grousbeck (Boston Celtics), Carl J. Martignetti (Martignetti Companies), Pamela Reeve (former CEO of Lightbridge), William M. Cowan (GE and former US Senator), Jay O. Light (former dean of the Harvard Business School), Maury E. McGough, MD, (North Shore Medical Center Board of Trustees), Cathy E. Minehan (CEO Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 1994–2007), Jerold Rosenbaum (Chief of Psychiatry\nMassachusetts General Hospital), Alexander L. Thorndike (Century Capital Management), John Fish (Suffolk Construction), Scott Schoen (Baylon Capital Partners), Scott M. Sperling (Thomas H. Lee Partners investments), Diane B. Patrick (Ropes & Gray), Henri A. Termeer (Genzyme), Dorothy A. Terrell (founding board member of the Commonwealth Institute), James L. Kaplan (Cubic Asset Management), Lori Tishler, M.D., David Torchiana, M.D., and Gwill York, entrepreneur with tech and healthcare companies. York co-founded Lighthouse Capital Partners, based in Cambridge and Menlo Park, in 1994, and led investments in companies such as Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Human Genome Sciences, Cascade Communications, Sirocco Systems, Speechworks, and StorageNetworks.\n\nJames J. Mongan, MD, served president and chief executive of Partners in 2003 to 2009. In 2008 \"Modern Physician\" magazine named Mongan as the \"most powerful physician executive in America\". He also received Modern Healthcare's CEO IT Achievement Award. Mongan asked \"Connors, who readily admits knowing little about medicine\" to extend his tenure.\n\nGary L. Gottlieb, MD, became president and chief executive of Partners HealthCare at the end of 2009 and he asked Connors to remain in his position on the board.\n\nIn 2015 David F. Torchiana, MD, became president and CEO of Partners HealthCare. His total compensation for 2015 was nearly $4.3 million, with a base salary of $1.9 million, plus bonuses and retirement benefits.\n\nCurrent members of Partners HealthCare include:\nPartners Continuing Care is the Non-Acute Care Services Division of Partners HealthCare headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. The organization provides rehabilitation, long term acute care, skilled nursing, home health care, and hospice services. Partners Continuing Care consists of the following organizations:\n\nThe Spaulding Rehabilitation Network is a provider of rehabilitation and medical management programs in the Greater Boston area. The network offers inpatient rehabilitation, outpatient rehabilitation, long-term acute care, and skilled nursing services. The main campus of the network is the Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, a 132-bed rehabilitation teaching hospital located in Boston, Massachusetts. It is the official teaching hospital for Harvard Medical School's Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation.\n\nPartners International Medical Services (PIMS) is a subsidiary of Partners HealthCare that focuses on the advancement of global health. PIMS collaborates with foreign embassies, ministries of health, and universities overseas to improve health status indicators directly through patient care initiatives and indirectly through medical conferences and other educational programs for physicians and nurses.\n\nPartners's biomedical research \"juggernaut was larger than Harvard University's.\" and embarked on a multibillion-dollar expansion program that rivals those of all other Massachusetts hospitals combined.\" A doctors' magazine recently named Partners' current chief executive the most powerful physician executive in the nation.\n\nIn 2013, Partners HealthCare System's plan to take over 378-bed South Shore Hospital in Weymouth was reviewed due to fears that the expansion plan is anticompetitive, a conduct Partners HealthCare System had been accused of over the past four years in other cases.\n\nPartners CEO Thier led Partners' efforts to demand higher payments from insurance companies. In May 2000 Thier and William C. Van Faasen, CEO of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts—the state's biggest health insurer—agreed to a deal that raised insurance costs all across Massachusetts. They agreed that Van Faasen would substantially increase insurance payments to Partners HealthCare doctors and hospitals, largely correcting the underpayments of the previous 10 years. Prior to this, Thier had informed all three managed care companies that they would all be paid at the same rate.\n\nAccording to \"Boston Globe\" investigative journalists, Blue Cross and other insurers increased the rate it paid Partners HealthCare by 75 percent between 2000 and 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52910804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52910804", "title": "Paul Caddick", "text": "Paul Caddick\n\nPaul Caddick (born July 1950) is a British businessman, founder of Caddick Group, a civil engineering business, and Moda Living, a property development company, and is the director of 119 companies.\n\nPaul Caddick is the son of a miner.\n\nCadddick worked for West Yorkshire County Council, John Laing and the civil engineers Sir Lindsay Parkinson, before starting his own business in 1980.\n\nIn 1997, he and Gary Hetherington bought Leeds Rhinos rugby league team, and they co-founded Leeds Rugby Limited.\n\nHis net worth is estimated at £200 million.\n"}
{"id": "3692025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3692025", "title": "Putney Swope", "text": "Putney Swope\n\nPutney Swope is a 1969 satirical comedy film written and directed by Robert Downey Sr. and starring Arnold Johnson as the title character, a black advertising executive. The film satirizes the advertising world, the portrayal of race in Hollywood films, the white power structure, and the nature of corporate corruption.\n\nIn 2016, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nPutney Swope, the only black man on the executive board of an advertising firm, is accidentally put in charge after the sudden death of the chairman of the board: prevented by the company by-laws to vote for themselves, in a secret ballot, most board members voted for the one person they thought could not win: Putney Swope.\n\nRenaming the business \"Truth and Soul, Inc.\", Swope replaces all but one of the white employees with blacks and insists they no longer accept business from companies that produce alcohol, tobacco or toy guns. The success of the business draws unwanted attention from the United States government, which considers it \"a threat to the national security\".\n\nIn an interview on the DVD version of the film, Downey states that Arnold Johnson had great difficulty memorizing and saying his lines during the film shoot. Downey says he was not concerned because he had developed a plan to dub in his own voice to replace Johnson's.\n\nThough the movie is in black-and-white, Truth and Soul's commercials are shown in color.\n\nThe character Buck Swope (Don Cheadle), from Paul Thomas Anderson's \"Boogie Nights\", was named as an homage to this film. Robert Downey Sr. also made a small cameo in \"Boogie Nights\" as the owner of a recording studio. The character Wing Soney, a Chinese businessman, was the inspiration for Cosmo, the Chinese character throwing firecrackers during the drug deal scene.\n\nPaul Thomas Anderson and Jim Jarmusch have cited the film as an inspiration for their approach to filmmaking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11668632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11668632", "title": "Ragib Ali", "text": "Ragib Ali\n\nRagib Ali (; born 10 October 1938) is a Bangladeshi-born British industrialist, pioneer tea-planter and educationalist. He is also associated with bank, insurance companies, and many other business houses. He is the founder of leading university, Sylhet In 2017, he was sentenced to 14 years in prison for corruption.\n\nAli was born in Talibpur, Bishwanath, Sylhet District, Bengal Presidency (now Bangladesh), British India. He has eight brothers.\n\nAli was educated in Bangladesh. He studied at the Raza G.C High School and College of Sylhet. In 1956, at the age of 18, he moved to the United Kingdom to further his education.\n\nIn 1961, after completing his education Ali started being involved in business. Once in the UK, he transformed himself from an ordinary waiter to a leading entrepreneur. He still has links with UK through his family members, who live in London as well as in Bradford, the majority of his father's family now live in Croydon, South London.\n\nAli is the Chairman of Sylhet Tea Company Ltd. and several other tea estates in Sylhet and Chittagong. He is also the managing director of Kohinoor Industries Ltd. He is the Chairman of Southeast Bank Limited. He has played a pioneering role in the tea industry. He is involved in charitable activities and has set up numerous trusts and educational institutions.\nAli is the founder chairman of Jalalabad Ragib-Rabeya Medical College. He is also the immediate past Chairman of North South University Foundation. He is also the founder of Leading University and University of Asia Pacific. He also contributed in many schools and established many colleges around Bangladesh.\n\nThe Bangladeshi Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) filed a case against him for amassing illegal wealth and concealing information about his assets. He was also accused of illegal occupation of property of the minority Hindu community which he was subsequently forced to give back. He along with his family fled to India to avoid arrest. However, they were sent back to Bangladesh after being arrested in Assam after their visa expired. He along with his son, Syed Abdul Hye, was convicted in court and Ragib was sentenced to 14 years in Jail on 6 April 2017. He had grabbed the land (tea estate) in 1990 after forcing the Shebayet (caretaker) Pankaj Kumar Gupta to flee to India. His daughter, son-in-law, and another relative were also convicted by the court. However, he got bail on these cases on 29 October 2018 eleven months after the conviction from the Supreme Court.\n\nHe has allegations of acts against Bangladesh during the liberation war in 1971 while staying abroad. He is also allegations of occupying government properties.\n"}
{"id": "4907359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4907359", "title": "Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs", "text": "Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs\n\nThe Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP), a lobby group based in Moscow, promotes the interests of business in Russia. It has over 1,000 members, including both private and state-owned companies, factories, and foreign and Russian plants. The RSPP represents the successor in the Russian Federation of the previous USSR scientific and industrial union founded in the summer of 1990.\n\nArkady Volsky founded the Union in 1991 and headed it until 2005. He was succeeded by, , vice-premier of Russia from 1991 to 1994, and subsequently a Duma deputy for eight years.\n\nThe current president is Alexander Shokhin. The current vice-president, Igor Yurgens, a graduate of Moscow State University, has served as an adviser to UNESCO and to the Trade Unions Council, and chaired the General Confederation of Trade Unions in 1996. Yurgens is sometimes interviewed by Western media on issues concerning Russian industry.\n\nAt a meeting of the lobby in July 2009, telecommunications executives portrayed the most popular VoIP programs like Skype and ICQ as encroaching foreign entities that the government must control.\n\n"}
{"id": "45398763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45398763", "title": "Six Segment Analysis", "text": "Six Segment Analysis\n\nThe Six Segment Analysis is a framework to analyze the general environment of a firm. The framework is frequently used in the analysis of competitive strategy. Six Segment Analysis can help managers to identify potential opportunities and threats. The six segments of the general environment are \"demographic\", \"sociocultural\", \"political/legal\", \"technological\", \"economic\", and \"global\".\n\nIn contrast to Michael Porter's Five forces analysis, which focuses on the competitiveness of a specific industry, Six Segment Analysis target on broader macro-environmental trends. Such trends could potentially affect the profitability of the industry as a whole and influence the sustainability of the competitive strategies of a company.\n\nBelow is a sample list of macro-environmental trends classified according to the six segments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen management analyzes a firm's strategic position, it is important to obtain a good understanding of the external environment of the company. Typically the external environment analysis consists of \"general environment\", \"industry environment\" and \"competitor environment\". Six Segment Analysis provides insights on the threats and opportunities existing in the general environment.\n\nWhile a very popular framework for the industry environment analysis is the Five forces analysis, strategic group is a substructure of an industry that may play a role in understanding performance differences among firms.\n\nCompetitor analysis typically starts with an identification of the market structure and proceed with complex strategic decision making analysis of Game Theory.\n"}
{"id": "9383611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9383611", "title": "Space Station Tycoon", "text": "Space Station Tycoon\n\nSpace Station Tycoon was a video game to be released in the future for the Wii developed by Wahoo Studios (developer of Outpost Kaloki X) and published by Namco Bandai. In this business simulation game, players take on the role of Shawn and his monkey sidekick, Tam, as they build and maintain space stations. The game also features 30 other characters. It features a level-based system, where gamers have to complete a set of mission objectives—including \"light puzzle solving\"—to progress to the next stage and further expand their empire.\n\nThe game lets players use the motion sensing of the Wii Remote to create gravity points and interact with objects in the environment. As well as undertaking tasks such as catching asteroids to stop them from smashing into the space station and lobbing cannonballs at space pirates. There is also a multiplayer mode and co-op play elements.\n\n"}
{"id": "54958797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54958797", "title": "Stan Katz (broadcaster)", "text": "Stan Katz (broadcaster)\n\nStan Katz (born 25 March 1949) is a South African broadcaster, best known as the presenter of Radio 702's highly rated Morning Zoo show. Katz would later become the CEO of Primedia Broadcasting.\n\nKatz completed a B.Com at the University of the Witwatersrand and began his broadcasting career at Swazi Music Radio where he was a radio presenter and programme director. In 1976 he began his own communications company and began staging music festivals in South Africa. He wrote and produced 'A Tribute to Jimmy Hendrix' at the Market Theatre (Johannesburg). \n\nHe returned to radio presenting in 1982 with an afternoon slot on Radio 702 presenting “The Stan Katz Goodtime Lowdown Rock and Roll Radio Show”. Three years later he became the station's Sales and Marketing Director. By 1987 he was both the managing director of the station and popular host of the highly rated Morning Zoo.\n\nIn 1994 he became CEO of Primedia Broadcasting and oversaw the establishment of Cape Town's premier radio station, Cape Talk. Several years later, he co-founded MobiBlitz, a mobile media company specializing in the deployment of Bluetooth systems in shopping malls.\n\nKatz was inducted into the MTN Radio Awards Hall of Fame in 2012 and continues to work as a radio consultant, lending his expertise and experience to both domestic and international radio stations.\n\nHe has also authored a book on radio advertising and marketing entitled: “Radio Advertising. A Sound Investment. 10 Key Principles for Maximising Returns”.\n\nHis first marriage was to Dixi Katz, with whom he has one daughter. Their marriage ended at the height of his success at 702. He married Philippa Sklaar in 1999 and the pair divorced two years later. Katz has a second child from another relationship. \n\nHis best-known relationship was with the \"Sunday Times\" columnist, Jani Allan in the 1980s. At this time, both were tabloid favourites and Katz was voted “South Africa's Sexiest Man of the Year” by a glamour magazine. South African tabloids christened Katz and Allan as “South Africa's Best Looking Couple”.Allan regularly appeared on the Zoo Show and wrote about it in her newspaper column. Allan details her relationship with Katz in her 2015 memoir, \"Jani Confidential\".\n"}
{"id": "11851568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11851568", "title": "Tony Jannus Award", "text": "Tony Jannus Award\n\nThe Tony Jannus Award recognizes outstanding individual achievement in scheduled commercial aviation by airline executives, inventors and manufacturers, and government leaders. The award is conferred annually by the Tony Jannus Distinguished Aviation Society and was first bestowed in 1964 in Tampa, Florida, U.S. Its namesake, aviation pioneer Tony Jannus (1889–October 12, 1916), piloted the inaugural flight of the St. Petersburg–Tampa Airboat Line on January 1, 1914, the first scheduled commercial airline flight in the world using heavier-than-air aircraft. In addition to preserving the legacy of Tony Jannus, the non-profit Society also offers financial assistance to college students pursuing studies in aviation and conducts an annual essay contest for high school students to encourage careers in aviation.\n\nPast recipients of the award include such famed luminaries as Eddie Rickenbacker, Donald Douglas, Jimmy Doolittle, C. R. Smith (the founder of American Airlines), William A. Patterson (president of United Airlines 1934–1966), and Chuck Yeager. Those so honored are enshrined at the St. Petersburg Museum of History's First Airline Pavilion. The Museum, located from the site of the inaugural flight's takeoff on January 1, 1914, also has an operational replica of the Benoist XIV airplane flown by Jannus that day. On January 29, 2011, the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics dedicated an historic site plaque on the museum's grounds, commemorating the site of the world’s first regularly scheduled airline.\n\nTony Jannus was an early American pilot whose aerial exploits were widely publicized in aviation's pre-World War I period. He flew the first airplane from which a parachute jump was made, in 1912. Jannus was also the first airline pilot, having pioneered the inaugural flight of the St. Petersburg–Tampa Airboat Line on January 1, 1914, the first scheduled commercial airline flight in the world using heavier-than-air aircraft. Departing from a location near the downtown St. Petersburg Municipal Pier on Second Avenue North, Jannus piloted the twenty-three-minute inaugural flight of the pioneer airline's Benoist XIV flying boat biplane. A crowd of 3,000 gathered at the pier to watch the history-making takeoff at 10 a.m. and were told by organizer Percival Fansler that \"What was impossible yesterday is an accomplishment today, while tomorrow heralds the unbelieveable\" . \n\nOccurring just ten years after Wilbur and Orville Wright's historic first airplane flight, the new St. Petersburg–Tampa Airboat Line began providing two daily round trips across Tampa Bay, departing St. Petersburg at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., with return flights from Tampa departing at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. At a fare of five dollars, it was the first time tickets were sold to the general public for point-to-point commercial air travel on a scheduled basis.\n\nFifty years later, in 1963, James Hamlett and the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce created the Tony Jannus Award to recognize the \"Man who has done the most to advance the airline industry\" and to celebrate the Tampa Bay area's historic role in the development of commercial aviation. The following March 1964, Senator A. S. Mike Monroney was named the first Tony Jannus Award recipient for his work as chairman of the U.S. Senate's Aviation Subcommittee and as chief proponent of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 that created the Federal Aviation Administration. In the 1970s, the St. Petersburg Chamber of Commerce joined with the Tampa chamber to co-sponsor the award. The joint effort by the two chambers of commerce eventually evolved into the Tony Jannus Distinguished Aviation Society, a non-profit organization which now confers the award.\n\nWinners of the Tony Jannus Award are enshrined at the St. Petersburg Museum of History's \"First Airline Pavilion\" and Tony Jannus-related exhibits. The Museum, located from the site of the inaugural flight's takeoff on January 1, 1914, also has an operational replica of the Benoist XIV airplane flown by Jannus that day. The replica was built by the Florida Aviation Historical Society in 1983 and flown across Tampa Bay from St. Petersburg to Tampa on January 1, 1984, in a reenactment of the Jannus inaugural flight 70 years earlier. The replica was moved to the museum in January, 1993.\n\nA permanent exhibit at Tampa International Airport also pays tribute to the following individuals (by year) who have received the Tony Jannus Award since 1964:\n\nThe Society is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in Tampa, Florida, and governed by a board of directors composed of distinguished industry leaders and Tampa Bay area officials. Financial support is provided by prominent companies and organizations related to the aviation industry. The stated threefold mission of the Society is to:\n\nThe Society holds its annual luncheon and dinner banquet in the Tampa Bay area, when the Tony Jannus Award is conferred for that year, in the presence of past recipients. These meetings are also the occasion for recognizing those college students selected to receive the Society's financial assistance, along with high school students excelling in the Essay Contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2966589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2966589", "title": "United States Senate election in Nebraska, 2006", "text": "United States Senate election in Nebraska, 2006\n\nThe 2006 United States Senate election in Nebraska was held November 7, 2006. Incumbent Democrat Ben Nelson won reelection to a second term, beating Republican Pete Ricketts by 63.8% of the vote to 36.1%. As of 2018, this is the last U.S. Senate election in Nebraska won by a Democrat.\n\n\n\nSince Ricketts was a millionaire, he could finance his own campaign. His opponents could not raise enough money to keep up. Kramer raised $330,000 and Stenberg raised $246,000 in 2005.\n\n\nThe primary election was held May 9, 2006. Pete Ricketts won the Republican nomination with 48% of the vote. Ben Nelson was unopposed for the Democratic nomination. Nelson was elected in 2000 by a margin of 51% to 49% after serving as the state's governor for two terms. Nelson, considered the most conservative Democrat in the Senate, is the lone Democrat in Nebraska's Congressional delegation. This election was one of the most expensive in Nebraska history. In 2005, Ben Nelson raised $3.9 million for his re-election campaign. Pete Ricketts contributed $14.35 million of his own money to his campaign; he raised an additional $485,000 in contributions. The race also attracted national attention and generated several high-level campaign appearances. President George W. Bush appeared at a rally for Ricketts on November 5, 2006, in Grand Island, while then-U.S. Senator Barack Obama appeared at a fundraiser for Nelson and other Nebraska Democrats on May 5, 2006 in Omaha. However, he won re-election by a wide margin.\n\n"}
{"id": "35139141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35139141", "title": "Wage Earner Protection Program Act", "text": "Wage Earner Protection Program Act\n\nThe Wage Earner Protection Program Act (S.C. 2005, c. 47, s.1), (the \"Act\") is an Act of the Parliament of Canada. It was part of a package of reforms to the insolvency law of Canada that were brought into force in 2008 and 2009 to compensate employees of companies made bankrupt or placed into receivership under the \"Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act\". It was subsequently expanded in 2011 to cover employees who lose their jobs when their employer's attempt at restructuring subsequently ends in bankruptcy or receivership.\n\nThe issue of fairness with respect to employees terminated as a result of business failures was addressed by the Parliament of Canada as early as 1949, when the \"Bankruptcy Act\" was amended to provide a limited preferred creditor status to such claims. From 1975, legislative proposals were actively considered for the establishment of a wage protection scheme in the event of the bankruptcy, liquidation or receivership of an employer. The various options discussed for how this could be achieved included:\n\nIn November 2003, the Senate Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce reviewed the history of these discussions and recommended that the option for super priority status be adopted. In 2005, the \"BIA\" was accordingly amended and the \"WEPPA\" enacted. These provisions did not immediately come into force, as several technical amendments needed to be passed in 2007. The \"Act\" came into force on 7 July 2008.\n\nThe WEPP is administered by Human Resources and Skills Development Canada, drawing on reports submitted by trustees and receivers of employers undergoing restructuring, bankruptcy or receivership. Under the Program, payouts are made to eligible employees who earned eligible wages during a specified eligibility period, and such payments constitute (in part) a \"super-priority\" upon the employer's current assets.\n\n\nAs the \"Act\" only covers wage claims that arise upon bankruptcy or receivership, it does not figure in proceedings conducted only under the \"Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act\".\n\nThe phrase \"compensation for services rendered\" in the definition for \"eligible wages\" was held by the British Columbia Supreme Court in 2009 to include other amounts that were earned by the employee and which were directed to be paid to a third party pursuant to a contract covering the employee. This ruling was upheld in 2010 by the British Columbia Court of Appeal.\n\nIt has also been argued that the WEPPA may also have the counterintuitive effect of reducing manufacturing employment in Canada through automation and offshoring of processes, as well as restricting financing that could be available to manufacturers, because of the super-priority nature of the program.\n"}
{"id": "55884664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55884664", "title": "Yasera Ghosheh", "text": "Yasera Ghosheh\n\nYasera Ghosheh is a Jordanian politician and Minister of Public Sector Development.\n\nYasera Ghosheh completed her undergraduate from the University of Jordan in Law. She completed her M.A. from the University of Jordan and another one in Commercial Law from the Birmingham University. She studied in Dubai School of Government where she got a degree in Negotiation in Leadership. She did a course Strategic Management for leaders of Non – Governmental Organizations from the Kennedy School of Government of Harvard University. In 2003 she attend a course on European Excellence Assessors at the European Foundation for Quality Management and How to Start the Journey towards Excellence course in 2008 at the foundation.\n\nYasera Ghosheh worked in the Economic and Development of the Royal Hashemite Court as the deputy director in 2002. From March 2004 to March 2006 she worked as the coordinator of The King Abdullah II Award for Excellence in Government Performance and Transparency. From 2005 to 2006 she was a technical advisor at the Minister of Public Sector Reform Administration. She was a lecturer at Petra University in the college of business administration and finance, where she worked for nine years. She was the first executive director of King Abdullah II Center for Excellence, working there from 2006 to May 2016. In 2009 she was awarded the Order of Al-Hussain for Distinguished contribution, 2nd class. She was appointed the Minister of Public Sector Development in 1 June 2015 in the cabinet of Prime Minister Hani Mulki. She is a Jordanian Senator and was selected as an assistant to the Senate President.\n"}
