{"id": "174060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174060", "title": "(29075) 1950 DA", "text": "(29075) 1950 DA\n\n, provisional designation \"\", is an asteroid, classified as a near-Earth object and potentially hazardous asteroid of the Apollo group, approximately in diameter. It once had the highest known probability of impacting Earth. In 2002, it had the highest Palermo rating with a value of 0.17 for a possible collision in 2880. Since that time, the estimated risk has been updated several times. In December 2015, the odds of an Earth impact were revised to 1 in 8,300 (0.012%) with a Palermo rating of −1.42. As of 2018, It is listed on the Sentry Risk Table with the highest cumulative Palermo rating. is not assigned a Torino scale rating, because the 2880 date is over 100 years in the future.\n\n\"\" was first discovered on February 23, 1950, by Carl A. Wirtanen at Lick Observatory. It was observed for seventeen days and then lost because the short observation arc resulted in large uncertainties in Wirtanen's orbital solution. On December 31, 2000 it was recovered at Lowell Observatory and was announced as on January 4, 2001. Just two hours later it was recognized as .\n\nOn March 5, 2001, \"\" made a close approach to Earth at a distance of . It was studied by radar at the Goldstone and Arecibo observatories from March 3 to 7, 2001.\n\nThe studies showed that the asteroid has a mean diameter of 1.1 km, assuming that ' is a retrograde rotator. Optical lightcurve analysis by Lenka Sarounova and Petr Pravec shows that its rotation period is hours. Due to its short rotation period and high radar albedo, ' is thought to be fairly dense (more than 3.5 g/cm³, assuming that it has no internal strength) and likely composed of nickel–iron. In August 2014, scientists from the University of Tennessee determined that \"\" is a rubble pile that is kept together by van der Waals forces.\n\n\"\" has one of the best-determined asteroid orbital solutions is due to a combination of:\n\nMain-belt asteroid 78 Diana (~125 km in diameter) will pass about from ' on August 5, 2150. At that distance and size, Diana will perturb ' enough so that the change in trajectory is notable by 2880 (730 years later). In addition, over the intervening time, ' rotation will cause its orbit to slightly change as a result of the Yarkovsky effect. If ' continues on its present orbit, it may approach Earth on March 16, 2880, though the mean trajectory passes many millions of kilometres from Earth, so \" does not have a significant chance of impacting Earth. As of the 7 December 2015 solution, the probability of an impact in 2880 is 1 in 8,300 (0.012%).\n\nThe energy released by a collision with an object the size of \" would cause major effects on the climate and biosphere, which would be devastating to human civilization. The discovery of the potential impact heightened interest in asteroid deflection strategies.\n\n"}
{"id": "866104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866104", "title": "Acceleron", "text": "Acceleron\n\nAccelerons are hypothetical subatomic particles postulated to relate the mass of the neutrino to the dark energy conjectured to be responsible for the accelerating expansion of the universe.\n"}
{"id": "643020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643020", "title": "Aeolian processes", "text": "Aeolian processes\n\nAeolian processes, also spelled eolian or æolian, pertain to wind activity in the study of geology and weather and specifically to the wind's ability to shape the surface of the Earth (or other planets). Winds may erode, transport, and deposit materials and are effective agents in regions with sparse vegetation, a lack of soil moisture and a large supply of unconsolidated sediments. Although water is a much more powerful eroding force than wind, aeolian processes are important in arid environments such as deserts.\n\nThe term is derived from the name of the Greek god Aeolus, the keeper of the winds.\n\nWind erodes the Earth's surface by deflation (the removal of loose, fine-grained particles by the turbulent action of the wind) and by abrasion (the wearing down of surfaces by the grinding action and sandblasting by windborne particles).\n\nRegions which experience intense and sustained erosion are called deflation zones. Most aeolian deflation zones are composed of desert pavement, a sheet-like surface of rock fragments that remains after wind and water have removed the fine particles. Almost half of Earth's desert surfaces are stony deflation zones. The rock mantle in desert pavements protects the underlying material from deflation.\n\nA dark, shiny stain, called desert varnish or rock varnish, is often found on the surfaces of some desert rocks that have been exposed at the surface for a long period of time. Manganese, iron oxides, hydroxides, and clay minerals form most varnishes and provide the shine.\n\nDeflation basins, called blowouts, are hollows formed by the removal of particles by wind. Blowouts are generally small, but may be up to several kilometers in diameter.\n\nWind-driven grains abrade landforms. In parts of Antarctica wind-blown snowflakes that are technically sediments have also caused abrasion of exposed rocks. Grinding by particles carried in the wind creates grooves or small depressions. Ventifacts are rocks which have been cut, and sometimes polished, by the abrasive action of wind.\n\nSculpted landforms, called yardangs, are up to tens of meters high and kilometers long and are forms that have been streamlined by desert winds. The famous Great Sphinx of Giza in Egypt may be a modified yardang.\n\nMajor global aeolian dust movements thought to influence and/or be influenced by weather and climate variation:\n\nParticles are transported by winds through suspension, saltation (skipping or bouncing) and creeping (rolling or sliding) along the ground.\n\nSmall particles may be held in the atmosphere in suspension. Upward currents of air support the weight of suspended particles and hold them indefinitely in the surrounding air. Typical winds near Earth's surface suspend particles less than 0.2 millimeters in diameter and scatter them aloft as dust or haze.\n\nSaltation is downwind movement of particles in a series of jumps or skips. Saltation normally lifts sand-size particles no more than one centimeter above the ground and proceeds at one-half to one-third the speed of the wind. A saltating grain may hit other grains that jump up to continue the saltation. The grain may also hit larger grains that are too heavy to hop, but that slowly creep forward as they are pushed by saltating grains. Surface creep accounts for as much as 25 percent of grain movement in a desert.\n\nAeolian turbidity currents are better known as dust storms. Air over deserts is cooled significantly when rain passes through it. This cooler and denser air sinks toward the desert surface. When it reaches the ground, the air is deflected forward and sweeps up surface debris in its turbulence as a dust storm.\n\nCrops, people, villages, and possibly even climates are affected by dust storms. Some dust storms are intercontinental, a few may circle the globe, and occasionally they may engulf entire planets. When the Mariner 9 spacecraft entered its orbit around Mars in 1971, a dust storm lasting one month covered the entire planet, thus delaying the task of photo-mapping the planet's surface.\n\nMost of the dust carried by dust storms is in the form of silt-size particles. Deposits of this windblown silt are known as loess. The thickest known deposit of loess, 335 meters, is on the Loess Plateau in China. This very same Asian dust is blown for thousands of miles, forming deep beds in places as far away as Hawaii. In Europe and in the Americas, accumulations of loess are generally from 20 to 30 meters thick. The soils developed on loess are generally highly productive for agriculture.\n\nAeolian transport from deserts plays an important role in ecosystems globally, e.g. by transport of minerals from the Sahara to the Amazon basin.\nSaharan dust is also responsible for forming red clay soils in southern Europe.\nAeolian processes are affected by human activity, such as the use of 4x4 vehicles.\n\nSmall whirlwinds, called dust devils, are common in arid lands and are thought to be related to very intense local heating of the air that results in instabilities of the air mass. Dust devils may be as much as one kilometer high.\n\nWind-deposited materials hold clues to past as well as to present wind directions and intensities. These features help us understand the present climate and the forces that molded it. Wind-deposited sand bodies occur as sand sheets, ripples, and dunes.\n\nSand sheets are flat, gently undulating sandy plots of sand surfaced by grains that may be too large for saltation. They form approximately 40 percent of aeolian depositional surfaces. The Selima Sand Sheet in the eastern Sahara Desert, which occupies 60,000 square kilometers in southern Egypt and northern Sudan, is one of the Earth's largest sand sheets. The Selima is absolutely flat in a few places; in others, active dunes move over its surface.\n\nWind blowing on a sand surface ripples the surface into crests and troughs whose long axes are perpendicular to the wind direction. The average length of jumps during saltation corresponds to the wavelength, or distance between adjacent crests, of the ripples. In ripples, the coarsest materials collect at the crests causing inverse grading. This distinguishes small ripples from dunes, where the coarsest materials are generally in the troughs. This is also a distinguishing feature between water laid ripples and aeolian ripples.\n\nAccumulations of sediment blown by the wind into a mound or ridge, dunes have gentle upwind slopes on the windward side. The downwind portion of the dune, the lee slope, is commonly a steep avalanche slope referred to as a slipface. Dunes may have more than one slipface. The minimum height of a slipface is about 30 centimeters.\n\nWind-blown sand moves up the gentle upwind side of the dune by saltation or creep. Sand accumulates at the brink, the top of the slipface. When the buildup of sand at the brink exceeds the angle of repose, a small avalanche of grains slides down the slipface. Grain by grain, the dune moves downwind.\n\nSome of the most significant experimental measurements on aeolian sand movement were performed by Ralph Alger Bagnold, a British army engineer who worked in Egypt prior to World War II. Bagnold investigated the physics of particles moving through the atmosphere and deposited by wind. He recognized two basic dune types, the crescentic dune, which he called \"barchan,\" and the linear dune, which he called longitudinal or \"seif\" (Arabic for \"sword\").\n\nA 2011 study published in \"Catena\" examined the effect of vegetation on aeolian dust accumulation in the semiarid steppe of northern China. Using a series of trays with different vegetation coverage and a control model with none, the authors found that an increase in vegetation coverage improves the efficiency of dust accumulation and adds more nutrients to the environment, particularly organic carbon. Two critical point were revealed by their data: 1. the efficiency of trapping dust increases slowly above 15% coverage, and decreases rapidly below 15% coverage. 2. at around 55%-75% coverage, dust accumulation reaches a maximum capacity.\n\nIn Europe,the European Commission requested the Joint Research Centre to develop the first pan-European wind erosion map. In a first step, a group of scientists have used the LUCAS topsoil dataset to develop the wind erosion susceptibility of European soils. Then, they have developed an index to land susceptibility for making a qualitative assessment of wind erosion. Finally, they modified the RWEQ model to estimate the soil Loss Due to Wind Erosion in European Agricultural Soils.\n\nA three-year quantitative study on the effects of vegetation removal on wind erosion found that the removal of grasses in an aeolian environment increased the rate of soil deposition. In the same study, a relationship was shown between decreasing plant density with decreasing soil nutrients. Similarly, horizontal soil flux across the test site was shown to increase with increasing vegetation removal.\n\nA 1998 study published in \"Earth Surfaces Processes and Landforms\" investigated the relationship between vegetative cover on sand surfaces with the rate of sand transport. It was found that sand flux decreased exponentially with vegetation cover. This was done by measuring plots of land with varying degrees of vegetation against rates of sand transport. The authors contend that this relationship can be utilized to manipulate rates of sediment flux by introducing vegetation in an area or to quantify human impact by recognizing vegetation loss’s effect on sandy landscapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1587548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587548", "title": "Aglaophotis", "text": "Aglaophotis\n\nAglaophotis is an herb mentioned occasionally in works on occultism. References to aglaophotis and to olieribos (both of which are said to be magical herbs) are made in the Simon \"Necronomicon\".\n\nThe Greek doctor Dioscorides named aglaophotis as a member of the peony family, Paeoniaceae. It has been speculated that the species \"Paeonia officinalis\", or the European peony, is the source of aglaophotis, but there is little evidence for this theory to be proved.\n\nAccording to Dioscorides, peony is used for warding off demons, witchcraft, and fever. This is at odds with the presentation in the Necronomicon, in which it is used to call upon dark forces.\nIn the original \"Silent Hill\" and \"Silent Hill 3\", aglaophotis is used to expel a parasite from Cybil Bennet and to force out the god of the games' cult.\n"}
{"id": "1072213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072213", "title": "Agricultural lime", "text": "Agricultural lime\n\nAgricultural lime, also called aglime, agricultural limestone, garden lime or liming, is a soil additive made from pulverized limestone or chalk. The primary active component is calcium carbonate. Additional chemicals vary depending on the mineral source and may include calcium oxide, magnesium oxide and magnesium carbonate. Unlike the types of lime called quicklime (calcium oxide) and slaked lime (calcium hydroxide), powdered limestone does not require lime burning in a lime kiln; it only requires milling.\n\nThe effects of agricultural lime on soil are:\n\n\nLime may occur naturally in some soils but may require addition of sulfuric acid for its agricultural benefits to be realized. Gypsum is also used to supply calcium for plant nutrition. The concept of \"corrected lime potential\" to define the degree of base saturation in soils became the basis for procedures now used in soil testing laboratories to determine the \"lime requirement\" of soils.\n\nOther forms of lime have common applications in agriculture and gardening, including dolomitic lime and hydrated lime. Dolomitic lime may be used as a soil input to provide similar effects as agricultural lime, while supplying magnesium in addition to calcium. In livestock farming, hydrated lime can be used as a disinfectant measure, producing a dry and alkaline environment in which bacteria do not readily multiply. In horticultural farming it can be used as an insect repellent, without causing harm to the pest or plant.\n\nSpinner-style lime spreaders are generally used to spread agricultural lime on fields.\n\nAgricultural lime is injected into coal burners at power plants to reduce the pollutants such as NO and SO from the emissions.\n\nThis is vital to maximise crop yield, animal grazing and good quality silage/hay.\n\nSoils become acidic in a number of ways. Locations that have high rainfall levels become acidic through leaching. Land used for crop and livestock purposes lose minerals over time by crop removal and becomes acidic. For example, when a 600-pound calf is removed from a pasture, 100 pounds of bone is also removed, which is 60% calcium compounds. The application of modern chemical fertilizers is a major contributor to soil acid by the process in which the plant nutrients react in the soil.\n\nAglime, which is high in calcium, can also be beneficial to soils where the land is used for breeding and raising foraging animals. Bone growth is key to a young animal's development and bones are composed primarily of calcium and phosphorus. Young mammals get their needed calcium through milk, which has calcium as one of its major components. Dairymen frequently apply aglime because it increases milk production.\nThe best way to determine if a soil is acid or deficient in calcium or magnesium is with a soil test which can be provided by a university with an agricultural education department for under $30.00, if you live in the United States. Farmers typically become interested in soil testing when they notice a decrease in crop response to applied fertilizer.\n\nThe quality of agricultural limestone is determined by the chemical makeup of the limestone and how finely the stone is ground. To aid the farmer in determining the relative value of competing agricultural liming materials, the agricultural extension services of several universities use two rating systems. Calcium Carbonate Equivalent (CCE) and the Effective Calcium Carbonate Equivalent (ECCE) give a numeric value to the effectiveness of different liming materials.\n\nThe CCE compares the chemistry of a particular quarry's stone with the neutralizing power of pure calcium carbonate. Because each molecule of magnesium carbonate is lighter than calcium carbonate, limestones containing magnesium carbonate (dolomite) can have a CCE greater than 100 percent.\n\nBecause the acids in soil are relatively weak, agricultural limestones must be ground to a small particle size to be effective. The extension service of different states rate the effectiveness of stone size particles slightly differently. They all agree, however, that the smaller the particle size the more effective the stone is at reacting in the soil. Measuring the size of particles is based on the size of a mesh that the limestone would pass through. The mesh size is the number of wires per inch. Stone retained on an 8 mesh will be about the size of BB pellets. Material passing a 60 mesh screen will have the appearance of face powder. Particles larger than 8 mesh are of little or no value, particles between 8 mesh and 60 mesh are somewhat effective and particles smaller than 60 mesh are 100 percent effective.\n\nBy combining the chemistry of a particular product (CCE) and its particle size the Effective Calcium Carbonate Equivalent (ECCE) is determined.The ECCE is percentage comparison of a particular agricultural limestone with pure calcium carbonate with all particles smaller than 60 mesh.Typically the aglime materials in commercial use will have ECCE ranging from 45 percent to 110 percent.\n\nBrazil's vast inland cerrado region was regarded as unfit for farming before the 1960s because the soil was too acidic and poor in nutrients, according to Nobel Peace Prize winner Norman Borlaug, an American plant scientist referred to as the father of the Green Revolution. However, from the 1960s, vast quantities of lime (pulverised chalk or limestone) were poured on the soil to reduce acidity. The effort went on and in the late 1990s between 14 million and 16 million tonnes of lime were being spread on Brazilian fields each year. The quantity rose to 25 million tonnes in 2003 and 2004, equalling around five tonnes of lime per hectare. As a result, Brazil has become the world's second biggest soybean exporter and, thanks to the boom in animal feed production, Brazil is now the biggest exporter of beef and poultry in the world.\n\n\n Transcription of 1919 text by Alva Agee.\n"}
{"id": "1211558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211558", "title": "Alessandro Malaspina", "text": "Alessandro Malaspina\n\nAlessandro Malaspina (November 5, 1754 – April 9, 1810) was an Italian explorer who spent most of his life as a Spanish naval officer. Under a Spanish royal commission, he undertook a voyage around the world from 1786 to 1788, then, from 1789 to 1794, a scientific expedition (the Malaspina Expedition) throughout the Pacific Ocean, exploring and mapping much of the west coast of the Americas from Cape Horn to the Gulf of Alaska, crossing to Guam and the Philippines, and stopping in New Zealand, Australia, and Tonga.\n\nMalaspina was christened \"Alessandro.\" He signed his letters in Spanish \"Alexandro,\" which is usually modernized to \"Alejandro\" by Spanish scholars.\n\nMalaspina was born in Mulazzo, a small principality ruled by his family. Today part of Tuscany, it was then part of the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, a fiefdom of the Holy Roman Empire. Alessandro's parents were the Marquis Carlo Morello and Caterina Meli Lupi di Soragna. From 1762 to 1765, his family lived in Palermo with Alessandro's great-uncle, Giovanni Fogliani Sforza d'Aragona, the viceroy of Sicily. From 1765 to 1773 he studied at the Clementine College in Rome. In 1773 he was accepted into the Order of Malta and spent about a year living on the island of Malta where he learned the basics of sailing.\n\nMalaspina entered the Royal Navy of Spain in 1774 and received the rank of \"Guardiamarina\".\n\nBetween 1774 and 1786 he took part in a number of naval battles and received many promotions. In January 1775, aboard the frigate \"Santa Teresa\", Malaspina took part of the expedition to relieve Melilla, which was under siege by Moroccans. Shortly after he was promoted to frigate-ensign (\"alférez de fragata\"). In July 1775 he participated the siege of Algiers and in 1776 was promoted to ship's ensign (\"alférez de navío\").\n\nFrom 1777 to 1779, aboard the frigate \"Astrea,\" Malaspina made a round-trip voyage to the Philippines, rounding the Cape of Good Hope in both directions. During the voyage he was promoted to frigate-lieutenant (\"teniente de fragata\"). In January 1780 he was in the Battle of Cape Santa Maria and shortly thereafter was promoted to ship's lieutenant (\"teniente de navío\"). During the Great Siege of Gibraltar, in September 1782, Malaspina served on a \"floating battery.\" In December of the same year, aboard the \"San Justo\", Malaspina participated in the fighting at Cape Espartel. He was soon promoted once again, to frigate-captain (\"capitán de fragata\").\n\nIn 1782 he was suspected of heresy and denounced to the Spanish Inquisition, but was not apprehended.\n\nFrom March 1783, to July 1784, Malaspina was second-in-command of the frigate \"Asunción\" during a trip to the Philippines. As with his first trip to the Philippines the route went by the Cape of Good Hope in both directions. In 1785, back in Spain, Malaspina, on board the brigantine \"Vivo\", took part in hydrographic surveys and mapping of parts of the coast of Spain. During the same year he was named Lieutenant of the Company of the Guardiamarinas of Cádiz.\n\nFrom September 1786 to May 1788 Malaspina made a commercial circumnavigation of the world on behalf of the Royal Philippines Company. During this voyage he was in command of the frigate \"Astrea\". His route went via Cape Horn and, returning, the Cape of Good Hope. In February 1787, the \"Astrea\" called at Concepción in Chile, whose military governor, the Irish-born Ambrosio O'Higgins, had six months before recommended that Spain organize an expedition to the Pacific similar to those led by Lapérouse and Cook. Higgins had made this recommendation following the visit of the Lapérouse expedition to Concepcion in March 1786, and presumably discussed it with Malaspina while the \"Astrea\" was at Concepcion. Following the \"Astrea\"'s return to Spain, Malaspina, in partnership with José de Bustamante, produced a proposal for an expedition along the lines set out in Higgins's memorandum. A short time later, on 14 October 1788, Malaspina was informed of the government's acceptance of his plan. José de Espinoza y Tello, one of the officers of the Malaspina expedition, subsequently confirmed the importance of the information sent by Higgins in stimulating the Government to initiate an extensive program of exploration in the Pacific. The prompt acceptance of Malaspina's proposal was stimulated by news that the Russian government was preparing the Mulovsky expedition to the North Pacific, which had as one objective the claiming of territory around Nootka Sound that was also claimed by Spain (see Nootka Crisis and Spanish expeditions to the Pacific Northwest).\n\nIn September 1788, Alessandro Malaspina and José de Bustamante y Guerra approached the Spanish government. The explorers proposed a scientific-political expedition that would visit nearly all the Spanish possessions in America and Asia. The Spanish king, Charles III, a promoter of science in the Spanish Empire, approved.\n\nTwo corvettes were built under Malaspina's direction specifically for the expedition: \"Descubierta\" and \"Atrevida\" (meaning \"Discovery\" and \"Daring\" or \"Bold\"). Malaspina commanded \"Descubierta\" and Bustamante \"Atrevida\". The names were chosen by Malaspina to honor James Cook's \"Discovery\" and \"Resolution\". The two corvettes were constructed by the shipbuilder Tómas Muñoz at the La Carraca shipyard. They were both 306 tons burden and 36 metres long, with a normal load displacement of 4.2 metres. They were launched together on April 8, 1789.\n\nThe expedition was under the \"dual command\" of Malaspina and Bustamante. Although in time the expedition became known as the Malaspina's, Bustamante was never considered subordinate. Malaspina insisted on their equality, yet Bustamante early acknowledged Malaspina as the \"chief of the expedition.\"\nThe expedition sailed from Cádiz on July 30, 1789. The bohemian naturalist Thaddäus Haenke missed the boat, but joined in 1790 in Santiago de Chile after crossing South America by land from Montevideo.\n\nThe expedition had explicitly scientific goals, as had the recent voyages of James Cook and Jean-François de Galaup, comte de La Pérouse. Some of the leading scientists of the day accompanied Malaspina. The scientific data collected during the expedition surpassed that of Cook, but due to changed political circumstances in Spain Malaspina was jailed upon return and the reports and collections locked up and banned from publication. The expedition and its findings remained obscure and nearly unstudied by historians until the late 20th century.\n\nMalaspina stopped at Montevideo and Buenos Aires, investigating the political situation of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata. After rounding Cape Horn, the expedition stopped at Talcahuano, the port of Concepción in present-day Chile, and again at Valparaíso, the port of Santiago. Continuing north, Bustamante mapped the coast while Malaspina sailed to the Juan Fernández Islands in order to resolve conflicting data on their location. The two captains reunited at Callao, the port of Lima. There investigations were made into the political situation of the Viceroyalty of Peru. The expedition then continued north, mapping the coast, to Acapulco, Mexico. A team of officers was sent to Mexico City to investigate the archives and political situation of the Viceroyalty of New Spain.\n\nBy the time Malaspina reached Mexico it was 1791, and there he received a dispatch from the king of Spain, ordering him to search for a Northwest Passage in the region of latitude 60 degrees N, newly thought to have been discovered many years previously. Malaspina had been planning to sail to Hawaii and Kamchatka, as well as the Pacific Northwest. Instead, he sailed from Acapulco directly to Yakutat Bay, Alaska (then known as Port Mulgrave), where the rumored passage was said to exist. Finding only an inlet, he carefully surveyed the Alaskan coast west to Prince William Sound.\n\nAt Yakutat Bay, the expedition made contact with the Tlingit. Spanish scholars made a study of the tribe, recording information on social mores, language, economy, warfare methods, and burial practices. Artists with the expedition, Tomas de Suria and José Cardero, produced portraits of tribal members and scenes of Tlingit daily life. A glacier between Yakutat Bay and Icy Bay was subsequently named after Malaspina. The botanist Luis Née also accompanied the expedition, during which he collected and described numerous new plants.\n\nKnowing that Cook had previously surveyed the coast west of Prince William Sound and found no passage, Malaspina ceased his search at that point and sailed to the Spanish outpost at Nootka Sound on Vancouver Island.\n\nMalaspina's expedition spent a fortnight at Nootka Sound. While at Nootka, the expedition's scientists made a study of the Nuu-chah-nulth (Nootka peoples). The relationship between the Spanish and the Nootkas was at its lowest point when Malaspina arrived. Malaspina and his crew were able greatly to improve the relationship, which was one of their objectives and reasons for stopping in the first place. Owing in part to Malaspina's ability to bequeath generous gifts from his well-supplied ships about to return to Mexico, the friendship between the Spanish and the Nootkas was strengthened. The gaining of the Nootka chief Maquinna's trust was particularly significant, as he was one of the most powerful chiefs of the region and had been very wary of the Spanish when Malaspina arrived. His friendship strengthened the Spanish claim to Nootka Sound, which was in question after the Nootka Crisis and resolved in the subsequent Nootka Conventions. The Spanish government was eager for the Nootka to agree formally that the land upon which the Spanish outpost stood had been ceded freely and legally. This desire had to do with Spain's negotiations with Britain than over Nootka Sound and the Pacific Northwest. Malaspina was able to acquire exactly what the government wanted. After weeks of negotiations the principal Nootka chief, Maquinna, agreed that the Spanish would always remain owners of the land they then occupied, and that they had acquired it with all due propriety. The outcome of the Nootka Convention depended in part on this pact.\n\nIn addition to the expedition's work with the Nootkas, astronomical observations were made to fix the location of Nootka Sound and calibrate the expedition's chronometers. Nootka Sound was surveyed and mapped with an accuracy far greater than had previously been available. Unexplored channels were investigated. The maps were also linked to the baseline established by Captain Cook, allowing calibration between Spanish and British charts. Botanical studies were carried out, including an attempt to make a type of beer out of spruce needles that was hoped to have anti-scorbutic properties for combating scurvy. The expedition ships took on water and wood, and provided the Spanish outpost with many useful goods, including medicines, food, various tools and utensils, and a Réaumur scale thermometer.\n\nAfter departing Nootka Sound the two ships sailed south, stopping at the Spanish settlement and mission at Monterey, California, before returning to Mexico.\n\nIn 1792, back in Mexico, Malaspina dispatched two schooners (or \"goletas\") to conduct more detailed explorations of the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the Strait of Georgia. These were \"Sutíl\", commanded by Dionisio Alcalá Galiano, and \"Mexicana\", under Cayetano Valdés y Flores. Both were officers subordinate to Malaspina. The ships were to have been commanded by two pilots of San Blas, Mexico, but Malaspina arranged for his own officers to replace them.\n\nIn 1792, Malaspina's expedition sailed from Mexico across the Pacific Ocean. They stopped briefly at Guam before arriving at the Philippines, where they spent several months, mostly at Manila. During this period Malaspina sent Bustamante in the \"Atrevida\" to Macau, China.\n\nAfter Bustamante's return the expedition left the Philippines and sailed to New Zealand. They explored Doubtful Sound at the southern end of New Zealand's South Island, mapping and carrying out gravity experiments. Then Malaspina sailed to Port Jackson (Sydney). on the coast of New South Wales Australia, which had been established by the British in 1788. During the expedition's stay at Sydney Cove, New South Wales, in March–April 1793, Thaddäus Haenke carried out observations and made collections relating to the natural history of the place, as he reported to the colony's patron, Sir Joseph Banks, saying: \"I here express the public testimony of a grateful soul for the very extraordinary humanity and kindness with which the English in their new Colony welcomed us wandering vagabonds, Ulysses' companions. A Nation renowned throughout the world, which has left nothing untried, will also overcome with the happiest omens, by the most assiduous labour and by its own determined spirit the great obstacles opposing it in the foundation of what may one day become another Rome.\"\n\nDuring its visit to Port Jackson, twelve drawings were done by members of the expedition, which are a valuable record of the settlement in its early years, especially as among them are the only depictions of the convict settlers from this period.\n\nThe recently founded English colony had been included in the expedition's itinerary in response to a memorandum drawn up in September 1788 by one of Malaspina's fellow naval officers, Francisco Muñoz y San Clemente, who warned of the dangers it posed to the Spanish possessions in the Pacific in peace time from the development of a contraband commerce and in war time as a base for British naval operations. Muñoz said: “The colonists will be able to fit out lucrative privateers so as to cut all communication between the Philippines and both Americas... These possessions will have a navy of their own, obtaining from the Southern region whatever is necessary to establish it, and when they have it ready formed they will be able to invade our nearby possessions...” In the confidential report he wrote following his visit, Malaspina echoed the warning from Muñoz, writing of the “terrible” future danger for Spain from the English colony at Port Jackson,\n\nfrom whence with the greatest ease a crossing of two or three months through healthy climates, and a secure navigation, could bring to our defenceless coasts two or three thousand castaway bandits to serve interpolated with an excellent body of regular troops. It would not be surprising that in this case—the women also sharing the risks as well as the sensual pleasures of the men—the history of the invasions of the Huns and Alans in the most fertile provinces of Europe would be revived in our surprised colonies.…The pen trembles to record the image, however distant, of such disorders.\n\nWhile recognizing the strategic threat it posed to Spain's Pacific possessions in time of war, Malaspina wrote: “It is not the concern of these paragraphs to demonstrate in detail the many schemes for these projected plunderings, so much as the easiest ways of preventing them.” He preferred the peaceable approach of drawing attention to the commercial opportunity the new colony offered for a trade in food and livestock from Chile and the development of a viable trade route linking that country with the Philippines. Having seen carts and even ploughs being drawn by convicts for want of draught animals in the colony, and having eaten meals with the colonists at which beef and mutton were regarded as rare luxuries, Malaspina saw the trade in Chilean livestock as the key to a profitable commerce. He proposed that an agreement be signed with London for an Association of Traders, and for an agent of the colony to be resident in Chile. Conscious that the policy he was proposing was a bold and imaginative one in the face of Spain's traditional insistence on a national monopoly of trade and other relations within her empire, Malaspina declared that \"this affair is exceedingly favourable to the commercial balance of our Colonies,\" and it would have the advantage of calming and tranquilizing \"a lively, turbulent and even insolent neighbour...not with sacrifices on our part but rather with many and very considerable profits.\"\n\nReturning east across the Pacific Ocean the expedition spent a month at Vava'u, the northern archipelago of Tonga. From there they sailed to Callao, Peru, then Talcahuanco, Chile. The fjords of southern Chile were carefully mapped before the expedition rounded Cape Horn. Then they surveyed the Falkland Islands () and the coast of Patagonia before stopping again at Montevideo.\n\nFrom Montevideo Malaspina took a long route through the central Atlantic Ocean to Spain, reaching Cádiz on September 21, 1794. He had spent 62 months at sea.\n\nDuring the five years of this expedition Malaspina fixed the measurements of America's western coast with a precision never before achieved. He measured the height of Mount Saint Elias in Alaska and explored gigantic glaciers, including Malaspina Glacier, later named after him. He demonstrated the feasibility of a possible Panama Canal and outlined plans for its construction. In addition, Malaspina's expedition was the first major long distance sea voyage that experienced virtually no scurvy. Malaspina's medical officer, Pedro González, was convinced that fresh oranges and lemons were essential for preventing scurvy. Only one outbreak occurred, during a 56-day trip across the open sea. Five sailors came down with symptoms, one seriously. After three days at Guam all five were healthy again. James Cook had made great progress against the disease, but other British captains, such as George Vancouver, found his accomplishment difficult to replicate. It had been known since the mid-18th century that citrus fruit was effective, but for decades it was impractical to store fruit or fruit juice for long periods on ships without losing the necessary ascorbic acid. Spain's large empire and many ports of call made it easier to acquire fresh fruit.\n\nIn December 1794 Malaspina met with King Charles IV and Prime Minister Manuel de Godoy. At first all was well and Malaspina was promoted to fleet-brigadier in March 1795.\n\nIn his examination of the political situation in the Spanish colonies Malaspina had decided that Spain should free its colonies and form a confederation of states bound by international trade. In September 1795 he began trying to influence the Spanish government with such proposals. Unfortunately Malaspina had lost the support he used to have at the royal court before his voyage and the political situation had changed radically, due in part to the French Revolution. He was tricked by Prime Minister Godoy into appearing to form part of a conspiracy to overthrow him, and arrested on November 23 on charges of plotting against the state. After an inconclusive trial on April 20, 1796, Charles IV decreed that Malaspina be stripped of rank and imprisoned in the isolated fortress of San Antón in La Coruña, Galicia. Malaspina remained in the prison from 1796 to 1802. During his incarceration he wrote a variety of essays on topics such as aesthetics, economics, and literary criticism. Francesco Melzi d'Eril and later, through him, Napoleon campaigned for Malaspina's release. He was finally freed at the end of 1802 but was exiled from Spain. He left for his hometown of Mulazzo via the port of Genoa, and settled in nearby Pontremoli.\n\nBecause of Spain's conflict with revolutionary France, there were no funds in the naval budget for publishing his seven-volume account of the 1789–94 expeditions: it remained unpublished until the late 19th century (apart from a Russian translation by Adam von Krusenstern in successive issues of the official journal of the Russian Admiralty between 1824 and 1827). A large portion of the documents meant to be used as source material for the publication of Malaspina's expedition remained scattered in archives to the present day. A significant number of documents are lost, and those that survive are often in a rough, semi-edited form. Alexander von Humboldt, an admirer of Malaspina, wrote, \"this able navigator is more famous for his misfortunes than for his discoveries.\" There was some contemporary publication, but it took two hundred years for the bulk of the records of the expedition to be published. The notes made by the expedition's botanist, Luis Neé, while he was at Port Jackson in 1793, were published in 1800. Dionisio Alcalá Galiano's journal of his survey of the straits between Vancouver Island and the mainland, carried out as part of the Malaspina expedition, was published in 1802 with all mention of Malaspina's name excised. In 1809, José Espinosa y Tello published the astronomical and geodesic observations made during the expedition in a two-volume work that also contained an abbreviated narrative of the voyage. This narrative was translated into Russian and published by Admiral Adam von Krusenstern in St. Petersburg in 1815. The journal of Malaspina's voyage was first published in Russian translation by Krusenstern in successive issues of the official journal of the Russian Admiralty between 1824 and 1827 (a copy of the manuscript had been obtained by the Russian ambassador in Madrid in 1806). The journal of Francisco Xavier de Viana, second-in-command of the \"Atrevida\", was published in Montevideo in 1849. Bustamante's journal was published in 1868 in the official journal of the Directorate of Hydrography. An abbreviated account of the Malaspina expedition, consisting mostly of his journal, \"Diario de Viaje,\" was published in Madrid in 1885 by Pedro de Novo y Colson. Malaspina's journal was published in another edition in Madrid in 1984. The definitive version of the expedition was finally published in Spain by the Museo Naval and Ministerio de Defensa in nine volumes from 1987 to 1999. The second volume of this series, Malaspina's journal, was published in an annotated English translation by the Hakluyt Society in association with the Museo Naval between 2001 and 2005.\n\nThe drawings and paintings done by members of the expedition were described by Carmen Sotos Serrano in 1982. The 4,000-odd manuscripts relating to the expedition were catalogued by Maria Dolores Higueras Rodriguez between 1989 and 1994.\n\nIn Pontremoli, which by then was part of the short-lived Kingdom of Etruria, Malaspina concerned himself with local politics. In December 1803 he organized a quarantine between the Napoleonic Italian Republic and the Kingdom of Etruria during a yellow fever epidemic in Livorno. In 1805 he received the title of Advising Auditor of the Council of State of the Kingdom of Italy. The Queen of Etruria received him at court in December 1806. Shortly afterwards he was admitted to the Columban Society in Florence with the title of Addomesticato.\n\nThe first appearance of an incurable illness occurred in 1807. Alessandro Malaspina died in Pontremoli on April 9, 1810, at the age of 55. His death was noted in the \"Gazzetta di Genova,\" 18 April 1810:\n\nPontremoli, 9 April 1810: Today at 10 o'clock in the evening the learned and famous navigator Signore Alexandro Malaspina of Mulazzo passed from this life. Such a loss cannot fail to be felt far and wide by all those who, placing high value on the importance of the nautical and travel accounts of this most talented Italian, have known his equanimity in both good and bad fortune; it is without doubt most bitter for those who witnessed the end from close by and who, moreover, had to admire his fortitude in suffering patiently to the very last the most severe pains of a long intestinal illness.\n\nMalaspina University-College and Malaspina International High School in the Canadian city of Nanaimo, British Columbia took their names indirectly from the explorer (although these names have been recently changed to Vancouver Island University and the High School at VIU), by way of Malaspina Strait, between Texada Island and the mainland, and the Malaspina Peninsula and adjoining Malaspina Inlet nearby, which are the location of Malaspina Provincial Park and are part of the Sunshine Coast region. Vancouver Island University is home to the Alexandro Malaspina Research Centre.\n\nThere is also a Malaspina Peak and Malaspina Lake near Nootka Sound on Vancouver Island, just southeast of the town of Gold River; and the well-known Malaspina Glacier in southern Alaska.\n\nIn New Zealand, Malaspina Reach of Doubtful Sound in Fiordland, explored by him in 1793, has his name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20872294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20872294", "title": "Bench (geology)", "text": "Bench (geology)\n\nIn geomorphology, geography and geology, a bench or benchland is a long, relatively narrow strip of relatively level or gently inclined land that is bounded by distinctly steeper slopes above and below it. Benches can be of different origins and created by very different geomorphic processes.\n\nFirst, the differential erosion of rocks or sediments of varying hardness and resistance to erosion can create benches. Earth scientists called such benches \"structural benches.\" Second, other benches are narrow fluvial terraces created by the abandonment of a floodplain by a river or stream and entrenchment of the river valley into it. Finally, a bench is also the name of a narrow flat area often seen at the base of a sea cliff that was created by waves or other physical or chemical erosion near the shoreline. These benches are typically referred to as either \"coastal benches,\" \"wave-cut benches,\" or \"wave-cut platforms.\"\n\nIn mining, a bench is a narrow, strip of land cut into the side of an open-pit mine. These step-like zones are created along the walls of an open-pit mine for access and mining.\n\n"}
{"id": "18048292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048292", "title": "Birch's law", "text": "Birch's law\n\nBirch's law, discovered by the geophysicist Francis Birch, establishes a linear relation between compressional wave velocity and density of rocks and minerals:\n\nwhere is the mean atomic mass in a formula unit and is an experimentally determined function.\n\nThe mean atomic mass of forsterite (MgSiO) is equal to the sum of the atomic masses divided by the number of atoms in the formula:\nTypical oxides and silicates in the mantle have values close to 20, while in the earth's core it is close to 50.\n\nBirch's law applies to rocks that are under pressures of a few tens of gigapascals, enough for most cracks to close]]. It can be used in the discussion of geophysical data. The law is used in forming compositional and mineralogical models of the mantle by using the change in the velocity of the seismic wave and its relationship with a change in density of the material the wave is moving in. Birch's law is used in determining chemical similarities in the mantle as well as the discontinuities of the transition zones. Birch's Law can also be employed in the calculation of an increase of velocity due to an increase in the density of material.\n\nIt had been previously assumed that the velocity-density relationship is constant. That is, that Birch's Law will hold true in any case, but as you look deeper into the mantle, the relationship does not hold true for the increased pressure that would be reached as you look deeper into the mantle near the Transition zone (Earth). In such cases where the assumption was made past the Transition zone (Earth), the solutions may need to be revised. In future cases, other Laws may be needed to determine the velocities at high pressures.\n\nThe relationship between the density of a material and the velocity of a P wave moving through the material was noted when research was conducted on waves in different materials. In the experiment, a pulse of voltage is applied to a circular plate of polarized barium titanate ceramic (the transducer) which is attached to the end of the material sample. The added voltage creates vibrations in the sample. Those vibrations travel through the sample to a second transducer on the other end. The vibrations are then converted into an electrical wave which is viewed on an oscilloscope to determine the travel time. The velocity is the lender of the damper decided by the wave's travel time. The resulting relationship between the density of the material and the discovered velocity is known as Birch's law.\n\nThe below table shows the velocities for different rocks ranging in pressure from 10 bars to 10,000 bars. It represents the how the change in density, as given in the second column, is related to the velocity of the P wave moving in the material. An increase in the density of the material leads to an increase in the velocity which can be determined using Birch's Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "706422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706422", "title": "Cleveite", "text": "Cleveite\n\nCleveite is an impure radioactive variety of uraninite containing uranium, found in Norway. It has the composition UO with about 10% of the uranium substituted by rare-earth elements. It was named after Swedish chemist Per Teodor Cleve.\n\nCleveite was the first known terrestrial source of helium, which is created over time by alpha decay of the uranium and accumulates trapped (occluded) within the mineral. The first sample of helium was obtained by William Ramsay in 1895 when he treated a sample of the mineral with acid. Cleve and Abraham Langlet succeeded in isolating helium from cleveite at about the same time.\n\nYttrogummite is a variant of cleveite also found in Norway.\n\n"}
{"id": "21857862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21857862", "title": "Criticisms of corporations", "text": "Criticisms of corporations\n\nThe notion of a legally sanctioned corporation remains controversial for several reasons, most of which stem from the granting of corporations both limited liability on the part of its members and the status and rights of a legal person. Some opponents to this granting of \"personhood\" to an organization with no personal liability contend that it creates a legal entity with the extensive financial resources to co-opt public policy and exploit resources and populations without any moral or legal responsibility to encourage restraint.\n\nAdam Smith in \"The Wealth of Nations\" criticized the joint-stock company corporate form because the separation of ownership and management could lead to inefficient management.\n\nThe context for Adam Smith's term for \"companies\" in \"The Wealth of Nations\" was the joint-stock company. In the 18th century, the joint-stock company was a distinct entity created by the King of Great Britain as Royal Charter trading companies. These entities were sometimes awarded legal monopoly in designated regions of the world, such as the British East India Company.\n\nFurthermore, the context of the quote points to the complications inherent in chartered joint-stock companies. Each company had a Courts of Governors and day-to-day duties were overseen by local managers. Governor supervision of day-to-day operations was minimal and was exacerbated by the poor communications of the 18th century.\n\nBribery and corruption were inherent in this type of corporate model as the local managers sought to avoid close supervision by the Courts of Governors, politicians, and Prime Ministers. In these circumstances, Smith did not consider joint-stock company governance to be honest. More importantly, the East India Company demonstrated inherent flaws in the corporate form. The division between owners and managers in a joint-stock company, and the limited legal liability this division was based on guaranteed that stockholders would be apathetic about a company's activities as long as the company continued to be profitable. Just as problematic, the laws of agency upon which the corporate form was based allowed for boards of directors to be so autonomous from and unconstrained by stockholder wishes that directors became negligent and ultimately self-interested in the management of the corporation.\n\nLegal Scholar and Professor of Law at the University of British Columbia Joel Bakan describes the modern corporate entity as 'an institutional psychopath' and a 'psychopathic creature.' In the documentary \"The Corporation\", Bakan claims that corporations, when considered as natural living persons, exhibit the traits of antisocial personality disorder or psychopathy. Also in the film, Robert A. G. Monks, a former Republican Party candidate for Senate from Maine, says:\n\nNoam Chomsky and others have criticized the legal decisions that led to the creation of the modern corporation:\n\nChomsky contends that corporations transfer policy decisions out of the hands of the people and into corporate boardrooms, where public oversight is limited. The extensive financial resources of corporations and the extent to which they're employed to influence political campaigns in the United States has also been implicated as a way in which corporations undermine the democratic institutions in a society.\n\n\"No other institution in American history—not even slavery—has ever been so consistently unpopular...with the American public. It was controversial from the outset, and it has remained controversial to this day.\"\n\nJohn D. Rockefeller was one of the first to experience that paradox in a spectacular and personal way. By the last decade of the 19th century, Rockefeller found that he had become \"the most hated man in the world.\"\n\nAround the middle of the 20th century, the economist John Kenneth Galbraith noted that the corporate businesses which foreign visitors came to see and marvel at, as \"showpiece[s] of American industrial achievement,\" were the very same ones that government attorneys scrutinized in their search for monopolistic wrongdoing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42365884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42365884", "title": "Crown Wetlands", "text": "Crown Wetlands\n\nThe Crown Wetlands lie on Little Cayman, one of the Cayman Islands, a British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean Sea. Collectively they form one of the territory’s Important Bird Areas (IBAs).\n\nThe Crown Wetlands cover about 40% of the area of the island. Apart from Tarpon Lake they all dry out seasonally. They vary greatly in size and consist of four distinct types:\n\n\nThe IBA was identified as such by BirdLife International because it supports populations of West Indian whistling ducks (with 135 breeding pairs), least terns (with 60 breeding pairs) and white-crowned pigeons.\n"}
{"id": "5453466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5453466", "title": "Daylighting (streams)", "text": "Daylighting (streams)\n\nIn urban design and urban planning, daylighting is the redirection of a stream into an above-ground channel. Typically, the rationale behind daylighting is to revert a stream of water to a more natural state, for the purposes of runoff reduction, habitat creation for species in need of it, or for aesthetic purposes. Daylighting is intended to revitalize the riparian environment for a stream which had been previously diverted into a culvert, pipe, or a drainage system. In the UK, the practice is also known as deculverting.\n\nThe term also refers to the public process toward such projects. According to the Planning and Development Department of the City of Berkeley, \"A general consensus has developed that protecting and restoring natural creeks' functions is achievable over time in an urban environment while recognizing the importance of property rights.\"\n\nNatural drainage systems help manage stormwater by infiltrating and slowing the flow of stormwater, filtering and bioremediating pollutants by soils and plants, reducing impervious surfaces, using porous paving, increasing vegetation, and improving related pedestrian amenities. Natural features — open, vegetated swales, stormwater cascades, and small wetland ponds — mimic the functions of nature lost to urbanization. At the heart are plants, trees, and the deep, healthy soils that support them. All three combine to form a \"living infrastructure\" that, unlike pipes and vaults, increase in functional value over time.\n\nSome efforts to blend urban development with natural systems use innovative drainage design and landscaping instead of traditional curbs and gutters, pipes and vaults. One such demonstration project in the Pipers Creek watershed reduced imperviousness by more than 18 percent. The project built bioswales, landscape elements intended to remove silt and pollution from surface runoff water and planted 100 evergreen trees and 1,100 shrubs. From 2001 to 2003, the project reduced the volume of stormwater leaving the street in a 2-year storm event by 98%. Such a reduction can reduce storm damage to water quality and habitats for species such as the iconic salmon. Unfortunately, the engineering alternatives have a relatively expensive initial price, since they are usually replacing existing structures, albeit life-limited ones. Further, conventional systems generally do not consider full cost accounting. The NDS alternatives can also provide returns on investment by improving urban environments.\n\nThe Street Edge Alternatives Street breaks most of the conventions of 150 years of standard American street design. Narrow, curved streets, open drainage swales, and an abundance of diverse plants and trees welcome pedestrians as well as diverse species. Adjacent residents maintain city infrastructure in the form of street \"gardens\" in front of their homes, visually integrating the neighborhood along the street. The Natural Drainage System united the community visually, environmentally, and socially. The 110th Cascades SEA (2002–2003) are a creek-like cascade of stair-stepped natural, seasonal pools that intercept, infiltrate, slow and filter over of stormwater draining through the project.\n\nViable, daylighted streams can exist only in intimate connection with restoration and stewardship by the neighbourhoods of their watersheds in a long run, since the good health of an urban stream could not long survive carelessness or neglect. With impervious surfaces having replaced most of the natural ground cover in urban environments, habitat for wildlife is dramatically reduced compared to historic baselines. Hydrologic changes have resulted, and impervious waterways directly carry non-point pollution through urban creeks. One effective solution is to restore streams and riparian habitat. This improves the entire urban watershed, far beyond the riparian channel itself.\n\nIn the 1880s there were over 50 wild salmon streams in Vancouver alone. However, as Vancouver grew, these streams were lost to urbanization. They were covered by roads, homes, and businesses. They were also lost when they were buried beneath sewers or culverts. \nThe City of Vancouver and its residents are now making an effort to uncover these lost streams and restore them back to their natural state.\n\nThe Hastings Creek Stream Daylighting Project was originally proposed in 1994 as a way to manage storm water and for aesthetic purposes. The idea was to bring the stream back to its once natural formation which would improve the surrounding habitat for wildlife as well as the originally proposed purposes. This project's plan was finalized in 1997, and work began the same year.\n\nThe stream had existed in Hastings Park until 1935 when the Park became focused on entertainment rather than its original purpose when it was given to the city in 1889, which was to be a retreat for those with a passion for the outdoors. As the Pacific Nation Exhibition (PNE) grounds continued to expand there was a continued loss of natural woodlands, greenery and waterways. It was not until the 1980s when the surrounding community began to look at continuing to uphold its original purpose.\n\nThe daylighting project made major progress in 2013 in the area located in the Creekway Park, which was originally a parking lot. The daylighted stream will one day connect the Sanctuary in Hastings Park to the Burrard Inlet. The progress made in Creekway Park is a major step towards this goal. This daylighting project also improved pedestrian and bikeway transit. This stream is now able to obtain the stormwater from the surrounding area, which reduces the load that is felt by the municipality's storm sewers. It is the storms in early autumn which provide the water flow for the creek, meaning that there is variable flow throughout the year. During the late summer months the moist soil is relied upon to maintain the vegetation of the area. This variation in flow does not allow for salmon migration through the creek; however it does house trout as well as vegetation which aid in the filtration of the storm water entering the creek.\n\nLocated upstream from Spanish Banks waterfront, one of the highest profile creeks in Vancouver Metro became open to salmon in 2000. In a collaborative project between Spanish Banks Streamkeepers Association and the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada, barriers to fish passage were removed and habitat structure was added. Spanish Banks Creek was previously diverted through a culvert underneath a parking lot, but the lower reaches of this creek have been revitalized. The banks were stabilized with riprap, large woody debris was added for habitat cover, and spawning gravels were added in appropriate areas. Rigorous effectiveness monitoring has not been performed, but a few dozen coho and chum salmon are known to spawn there annually in a sustaining population. Maintenance to the creek is provided by Spanish Banks Streamkeepers Association, a local volunteer stewardship group.\n\nThe East Vancouver neighborhood of Mount Pleasant has officially incorporated into its community plan a project to restore St. George Creek, a tributary to the False Creek watershed. St. George street is the site of this former stream, which now flows through the sewers and a culvert. This paved street will be converted into a shared-use path, riparian habitat, and urban greenspace.\n\nSt. George Creek once spawned salmon and trout, and hosted a diverse riparian ecosystem. The restoration of this habitat using the rainway proposal would allow for salmon spawning, recreational and educational opportunities, and improve the community's access to nature and transportation alternatives. The proposal would pass the following community centres: Great Northern Way Campus, St. Francis Xavier School, Mt. Pleasant Elementary, Florence N. Elementary, Kivan Boys and Girls Club, Robson Park Family Centre.\n\nDetailed landscape designs have been produced, and incorporated into the community plan of Mount Pleasant neighborhood. Project leaders from the False Creek watershed Society and Vancouver Society of Storytelling have collaborated with Mount Pleasant Elementary students to create a street mural drawing attention to the belowground stream., To date, the mural is the only physical progress on the project.\n\nThis is a future project aiming to ultimately connect the gap in the Seaside Greenway in order to link it to the Burrard Bridge. The beginning of this project has been started by the City of Vancouver in 2013, after its approval on July 29 of the same year. Volunteer Park is located in Kitsilano at the corner of Point Grey Road and Macdonald Street. This is where the main daylighting project for this area is planned to occur.\n\n\"Phase one\" is currently in progress. Point Grey Road is currently closed to through motor traffic in order to turn the street into a greenway for cycling and walking. This part of the project is expected to be complete by summer 2014.\n\n\"Phase two\" of this project is looking to include the daylighting of Tatlow Creek which is located in Volunteer Park. This phase must go through the City Council and the Park Board capital planning process for the 2015-2017 Capital Plan before any plans can be finalized.\n\nTatlow Creek had been scheduled to be daylighted in 1996, and the project to start in 1997. The project was deemed feasible and the storm water was to be diverted back into the natural creek bed and tunneled under Point Grey Road. When it was not done, the project was proposed again by a UBC masters' student as the Tatlow Creek Revitalization Project. If this project is completed as phase 2 of the new Park Board Project it would allow for salmon and trout spawning.\n\n\nThere have long been several plans to daylight the Jones Falls along much of its route through downtown Baltimore.\n\nYonkers, New York, the fourth largest city in the state, broke ground on December 15, 2010 on a project to daylight of the Saw Mill River as it runs through its downtown, called Getty Square. The daylighting project is the cornerstone of a large redevelopment effort in the downtown. An additional 2 other sections of the Saw Mill River are planned to be daylighted as well.\n\nThe first phase of the Yonkers daylighting was portrayed in the documentary Lost Rivers. The second phase, where the river runs under the Mill Street Courtyard, broke ground on March 19, 2014.\n\nPipers Creek in the central to north Greenwood area is joined by Venema and Mohlendorph Creeks in Carkeek Park on Puget Sound. Pipers is one of the four largest streams in urban Seattle, together with Longfellow, Taylor, and Thornton creeks. Pipers Creek drains a watershed into Puget Sound, from a residential upper plateau that is most of the watershed, through the steep ravines of the of Carkeek Park. The headwaters begin in the north Greenwood neighborhood. Outside the park, the creek can be seen at N 90th Street between Greenwood and Palatine avenues N.\n\nYears of hard work by neighbors and volunteers have brought salmon back to Pipers Creek, Venema, and Mohlendorph creeks in the mid-2000s after there were none for 50 years. The latter is named for the late Ted Mohlendorph, a biologist who spearheaded efforts to restore the watershed as salmon habitat.\n\nThough still plagued by problems endemic to urban streams, Piper's Creek today is a scintillating example of the possible. Though augmented by hatchery fish, anywhere from 200 to 600 chum salmon return each November, along with a few coho in the fall and fewer occasional winter steelhead. Inspirationally, several hundred small resident coastal cutthroat trout live in the watershed, believed to be native fish that survived decades of urban assault. An environmental learning center and programs are part of comprehensive restoration. More than four miles (6 km) of trail are maintained by neighborhood volunteers who put in 4,000 hours of work in 2003, for example. The creek waters are pretty in their impressively restored settings, but the watershed is the surrounding neighborhoods and streets, laced with petrochemicals, pesticides, fertilizers, wandering pets, and such. Along with steeply high volume during storm runoff and resulting turbidity, water quality is the remaining big issue in restoring salmon.\n\nThe north fork of Pipers Creek is the site for the 110th Cascades, an S.E.A. (Street Edge Alternatives) street demonstration project (see above). The 110th Cascades are a creek-like cascade of stair-stepped natural, seasonal pools that intercept, infiltrate, slow and filter over of stormwater draining through the project. The cascades are a part of an NDS (Natural Drainage Systems) project; together these united the community visually, environmentally, and socially, toward integrating the neighborhood as a community.\n\nPipers Creek was renamed Piper's Creek by 19th century settlers A. W. Piper and his large family; the apostrophe is becoming less common today.\n\n\n\n\nThe Porter Brook flows from the west of Sheffield on the edge of the Peak District and flows into the River Sheaf at \"Sheaf Street\" near Sheffield Railway Station. The Porter Brook is one of Sheffield's five well known rivers, along with the Don, Sheaf, Loxley and Rivelin. The Porter has been deculverted at \"Matilda Street\" near the BBC Radio Sheffield studios. A feasibility study for the scheme was undertaken for South Yorkshire Forest Partnership by Sheffield City Council in 2013 with funding from the Environment Agency and the EU via the Interreg North Sea Region Programme. The project was completed by Sheffield City Council with funding from the Environment Agency in 2016. Before and after pictures, taken from 2011 through to 2016, at www.deculverting.com show the scheme at the same location prior to commencement, during construction and completion. The site has been maintained since 2016 with the help of the Wild Trout Trust.\n\nThe Porter Brook daylighting scheme featured in a 2016 BBC Radio 4 documentary entitled A River of Steel, produced by sound recordist Chris Watson, ex-member of Caberet Voltaire. . It was also discussed in an article in The Guardian in 2017 .\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the River Roch that runs through the town of Rochdale has recently been uncovered, revealing the medieval bridge in place. It was covered in 1904 to accommodate a tram network that has since closed.\n\nIn Seoul, which buried the Cheonggyecheon creek during the city's 1960s boom, an artificial waterway and adjoining parks have been built atop it. Mayor Lee Myung Bak, formerly a construction magnate with the Hyundai chaebol that helped bury the river, ran for office promising to daylight it, and achieved in 2005 a greenspace in a city without very many parks or playgrounds. The new park is hugely popular, alleviating fears that opening the river would cause nearby businesses to lose customers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21025021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21025021", "title": "Delaware State Park", "text": "Delaware State Park\n\nDelaware State Park is a Ohio state park in Delaware County, Ohio in the United States. The park, town and county are named for the Delaware Indians (also known as the Lenape), a Native American tribe that originally lived along the Delaware River in Pennsylvania, Delaware, New York, Maryland, Connecticut and New Jersey. The Delawares were forced west by colonial settlers and were eventually forced further west by settlers of the Northwest Territory from which Ohio was established in 1803. Delaware State Park is on U.S. Route 23 near the city of Delaware, Ohio. It is open for year-round recreation including camping, hiking, boating, hunting, fishing, and picnicking.\n\nThe Delawares were organized bands of Native American peoples with shared cultural and linguistic characteristics. Delaware State Park is named for them. It is just one of many places in the United States bearing the name \"Delaware\".\n\nThey lived in what is now New Jersey and along the Delaware River in Pennsylvania, the northern shore of Delaware, in the northeastern corner of Maryland, the panhandle of Connecticut and the lower Hudson Valley and New York Harbor in New York, at the time of the arrival of the Europeans in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nThe Treaty of Easton, signed between the Delawares and the English in 1766, removed them westward, out of present-day New York and New Jersey and into Western Pennsylvania and Ohio and beyond. The Delawares continually were crowded out by European settlers and pressed to move in several stages over a period of 176 years, with the main body arriving in the northeast region of Oklahoma in the 1860s. Along the way many smaller groups left, or were told to stay where they were, but not in Ohio. Consequently, today, the Delawares are spread from New Jersey to Wisconsin to southwest Oklahoma.\n\nThe Delaware did not leave Ohio without a fight. They joined a confederation of tribes led by Chief Pontiac and participated in what became known as Pontiac's Rebellion. They also joined Blue Jacket's confederation in the Northwest Indian War.\n\nAnglo-American settlers moved into the area of Delaware State Park in the early 19th century. A wagon trail near what is now U.S. Route 23 brought settlers to the area. A tavern was constructed along the trail in 1810 on a small hill that is now part of the park. A palisade was built around the tavern in anticipation of the War of 1812. The tavern and palisade came to be known as Fort Morrow. The fort was never attacked but it did provide a sense of security for the settlers of the area. Today, the fort is an archaeological site; it is one of two such sites near the park that are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The other site is the Ufferman Site, which was inhabited during the Late Woodland period of North American prehistory.\n\nDelaware State Park was established in 1952 following the completion of Delaware Lake by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1951. The lake was built as part of the Flood Control Act of 1938. The dam on the Olentangy River is part of the Corps' Huntingdon district and helps control flooding along the Olentangy, Scioto and Ohio Rivers. It was built between 1947 and 1951 at a cost of $4,307,000.\n\nDelaware State Park is surrounded by farm land. Before the land was cleared for farming it was an old-growth forest of beech and maple. The old forest was cut long ago, but a thriving second growth forest can be found in and around Delaware State Park. The woods provide habitat for white-tailed deer, fox squirrels, groundhogs, and pheasants.\n\nDelaware State Park is open for year-round recreation. Boats with unlimited horsepower are permitted on Delaware Lake which is also open to fishing and swimming in the designated swimming area. There is a marina that sells fuel as well as fishing and boating supplies. The lake is home to a variety of game fish including largemouth and smallmouth bass, crappie, and muskellunge. Waterfowl hunting is permitted along the lake. Numerous duck blinds are awarded through a lottery system. Hunting for other game animals is permitted on the wildlife area. There are many picnic areas on the shore of the lake with tables available on a first come, first served basis.\n"}
{"id": "665259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665259", "title": "Digital raster graphic", "text": "Digital raster graphic\n\nA digital raster graphic (DRG) is a digital image resulting from scanning a paper USGS topographic map for use on a computer. DRGs created by USGS are typically scanned at 250 dpi and saved as a TIFF. The raster image usually includes the original border information, referred to as the \"map collar\". The map file is UTM projected and georeferenced to the surface of the earth. DRG's are regularly used in GIS applications. DRGs were first produced in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8082883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8082883", "title": "Dryland salinity", "text": "Dryland salinity\n\nDryland salinity is a natural process for soil, just like other processes such as wind erosion. Salinity degrades land by an increase in soil salt concentration in the environment, watercourse or soil in unirrigated landscapes, being in excess of normal soil salt concentrations in dryland regions.\n\nSalinity refers to the movement and concentration of salt in the landscape and its associated detriment to land and water resources; dryland salinity refers to salinity in unirrigated landscapes. Salinity processes extend from local to regional scales and are driven by imbalances in the water budget that result, primarily, from agriculturally driven landscape change. There are two types of salinity:\n\nThere are two types of salinity. Primary salinity (natural salinity) and secondary salinity (induced salinity). (Nrm.qld.gov.au, 2013) Primary salinity naturally occurs in arid and saline environments such as salt lakes, marshes, pans and salt flats. Natural accumulation of salt in soils is an outcome from previous cycles of drainage, desiccation and sea winds. High levels of salt are often found in dry soils, more so than wet soils as it is diluted and washed through the soil profile. (Barry and Holwell et al., 2012).\n\nSecondary salinity is a direct result of human interaction with the land, during development, agriculture and irrigation. Certain land practices have led to changes in the natural structure of the biosphere resulting in excess salting of the land, waterways and soils; thus having detrimental effects on biodiversity and the lands' productivity.\n\nFactors such as climate, features of landscape, soils, drainage, aspect and the effects of human activities; all impact on the severity and occurrence of dryland salinity. Dryland salinity effects human and natural resources, such as native vegetation and crops, animals, infrastructure, agricultural inputs, biodiversity, aquatic ecosystems and water supply quality in the environment. Understanding dryland salinity requires a look at the water cycle.\nWater enters the soil from precipitation – this is called Infiltration; water may remain indefinitely within the spaces or pores between soil particles as soil moisture. Soil moisture may be lost to the surface or atmosphere directly, or through plant uptake – this is called evapotranspiration. Soil moisture may also continue to move downward to join the groundwater—this is called groundwater recharge. Recharge is most likely to occur when the amount of water that is available to the soil exceeds the soil’s capacity to store it (field capacity). Recharge may also occur by saturated flow when water bypasses the soil matrix as it moves to depth in macropores (e.g. root holes, fractures).\nExcessive recharge may raise the water table locally, or at a landscape scale. When brackish to saline groundwater intersects the ground surface and discharges, this is termed saline discharge. Areas of discharge are called saline seeps (when groundwater intersects the soil surface) or saline scalds (where water is lost by evaporation only). Groundwater discharge manifests in such problems as: reduced agricultural production, degradation of natural environment, reduced surface water quality, damage to infrastructure including roads, as well as soil erosion and denudation of land.\n\nDryland salinity is broadly the result of three processes: Groundwater recharge, Groundwater movement and Groundwater discharge. (Environment.nsw.gov.au, 2013)\n\nGroundwater recharge occurs naturally, being a key process in the development of salinity, however land clearing accelerates this development as the once present deep-rooted plants do not use excess runoff, and it now seeps past the roots zone to enter the groundwater system. (Environment.nsw.gov.au, 2013) Evapotranspiration is reduced, as vegetation is lost, resulting in an imbalance in groundwater recharge and discharge, causing the water table to rise. Capillary action brings salt to the surface initiating surface salt accumulation. (Barry and Holwell et al., 2012)\n\nPrevention and alleviation of dry land salinity is a simplistic concept in theory however complex in application. Ceasing the removal of deeply rooted vegetation in order to moderate unbalanced groundwater recharge and the replanting of deeply rooted vegetation such as Eucalyptus and salt tolerant species in regions where salinity is present, will start to alleviate the salt and ground water discharge problems. (Barry and Holwell et al., 2012) However establishing plants in salt laden areas is extremely difficult.\n\nDryland salinity is a sign that the water balance of the nearby area of land or catchment has been altered. Clearing as little as 25% of a catchment can cause salinity to occur. In addition to adding extra recharge, salinity may also be caused if the aquifers discharge capacity has been exceeded. In many Australian landscapes, aquifer capacity may be several orders of magnitude below that of the altered recharge. Restoring the balance requires either the introduction of natural vegetation (e.g. mallee eucalyptus or perennial grasses), which intercepts and transpires most of the incoming rainfall; or by adapting agriculture to the increased area of shallow, saline groundwater.\n\nDryland salinity management often focuses on vegetation, yet it is the collective role of soils and vegetation that has an effect on the root cause of the problem, recharge. Soil health cannot be ignored as a valuable and extensive activity for the management of dryland salinity – the multiple benefits of improving soil health are clear and can be motivated by the potential for local and regional economic and social gains.\n\nSoil is considered in two contexts when it comes to dryland salinity: Recharge and discharge.\n\nSoils absorb and store water according to their water holding or field capacity and how dry they are to start with. In much of Victoria, under typical rainfall and natural vegetation cover, soils take on water during wet winters and dry out over summers as plants consume the water (Young & Young, 2001). The drier the soil when leading into winter, the more water can be stored that might otherwise leak to groundwater.\n\nTo reduce recharge to levels that existed in pre-clearing conditions is generally infeasible in most agricultural landscapes. This is because there are too few profitable perennials that can replace crops or that can be adopted at the scale required. In most recharge areas that are at risk of future salinity, the goal is to minimise recharge. This can be done by planting wide-spaced trees (alley farming), areas of perennials on suitable soils, and by preventing soils from being left without a significant leaf area in winter and spring. In recharge areas remote from saline areas there is often little incentive for farmers to adopt low profit, low recharge systems. In addition, recharge is the source of fresh groundwater, and a trade off between consumptive use and salinity should be acknowledged.\n\nThe manifestation of dryland salinity is largely a problem of groundwater – however the accumulation of salt within the soil and at the surface due to proximity to or saturation by saline groundwater causes changes to the soil’s chemistry, structure and stability, and the plant life that it supports.\n\nIn discharge areas, salinity can be managed by establishing salt-tolerant plants or by engineering systems. Engineering systems include deep open drains, pumps, siphons and various forms of surface water management. Engineering system involve the obvious discharge of salt and water. While saline areas also discharge salt and water, the abundance and timing will be changed. In most Australian states, farmers would be advised to seek advice before using engineering systems.\n\nEstablishing salt-tolerant plants can improve salt discharge rates and improve soil health. Improvements undertaken at a catchment scale bring many benefits, not the least of which is providing for increased agricultural and associated regional productivity – using water for production that otherwise would contribute to an environmental problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53487083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487083", "title": "East Greenland Ice-Core Project", "text": "East Greenland Ice-Core Project\n\nThe East Greenland Ice-Core Project, known as EGRIP, is a scientific project that plans to retrieve an ice core from the Northeast Greenland ice stream. The first season in the field was 2015; the project is expected to be drilling through to the base of the ice sheet by 2020.\n\nMuch of the camp set up for the North Greenland Eemian Ice Drilling Project (NEEM) was moved to the EGRIP location in 2015. The equipment was towed by several tractors. The team ran low on fuel and had to abandon some equipment, arriving at the EGRIP location on 26 May, after nine days of towing.\n"}
{"id": "32561418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32561418", "title": "Energy in Cyprus", "text": "Energy in Cyprus\n\nEnergy in Cyprus describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Cyprus. Energy policy will describe the politics of Cyprus related to energy more in detail. Cyprus is a member of European Union and non-OECD country.\n\nOn 11 July 2011 the main power station of Cyprus producing 60% of electricity was damaged in an explosion of stored 98 gunpowder containers at a naval base. The power station needs repair before full operation.\n\nAbout 97% of the primary energy use was imported in 2008. However, the European Union RES target (2020) for Cypus is 13% giving Cyprus an opportunity to promote its own energy production and increase its energy independence of export in the near future. According to the national action plan Cyprus expects it will also meet this target.\n\nAccording to the IEA key ststistics 2010 the Cypriotic energy import in 2008 was 5 TWh higher than the primary energy use. If correct, this corresponds about 18% storage capacity of the annual energy use. There was equal imbalance in 2007.\n\nWith feed-in tariff for large wind power plants the Cypriot National Renewable Energy Action Plan targets the largest renewable electricity share from wind power by 2020. Development has been fast: In 2005 there was no wind energy, in 2010 3.4% of electricity. The national target is 6.8% of electricity by 2020. The EU countries average target by 2020 is 14%. A recent scientific article published in Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews in 2014 by Prof. Mete Feridun of University of Greenwich in London and his colleagues investigates the long-run equilibrium relationship among international tourism, energy consumption, and carbon dioxide emissions (), and the direction of causality among these variables in. The authors reports evidence that international tourism is a catalyst for energy consumption and for an increase in the level of carbon dioxide emissions in Cyprus.\n\nThe Cypriot target of solar power including both photovoltaics and concentrated solar power is combined 7% of electricity by 2020, which will be one of the top ones in the European Union markets. Respective target is in Spain 8%, Germany 7%, Greece 5%, Portugal 4% and Malta 1%.\n\nSolar heating is the usage of solar energy to provide space or water heating. Solar heating per capita in 2010 was the highest in Cyprus of all European countries: 611 W per capita. Corresponding value was in other top EU countries: Austria 385,\nGreece 253 and Germany 120. In 2010 this capacity was the lowest in the EU, with high unused domestic energy opportunities, in Finland 4, Latvia 3, Estonia 1 and Lithuania 1. Correspondingly the value was in a Scandinavian country Denmark 68.\n\nThe Cypriot Energy Regulatory Authority (CERA) announced a number of steps, aimed at facilitating development of Photovoltaics in Cyprus. Among them is the large-scale application of Net metering. CERA aims to reduce electricity prices for the households where net metering is applied, via fuel saving and carbon dioxide reduction. Cyprus introduced net metering as pilot program in 2012. The program concerns selected governmental buildings and a few communities only. Its goal was to gain significant experience and knowledge on how to run the electricity grid using net metering.\n\nThe University of Cyprus has announced plans for a second, 10 to 13 MW, solar park and revealed it will lead a €1.3 million research program into the adoption of net metering across the European Union. The UoC will also lead an EU-funded European research program on promoting net metering policies. The university has signed a memorandum of co-operation with the Bishopric of Tamasos and Orini of the Church of Cyprus, to develop a photovoltaic park in the Cypriot capital of Nicosia.\n\nThe United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Cyprus installed a 15 KW photovoltaic system at its offices. The park cost US$30,000 and is now connected to the grid as well.\n\nEuroAsia Interconnector will connect Israel , Cyprus and Greece with 2000 MW HVDC undersea power cable. It is a leading Project of Common Interest of the European Union and also priority Electricity Highway Interconnector Project. Cyprus, as last EU member fully isolated from energy interconnections will be connected to European network.\n\n"}
{"id": "35886825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35886825", "title": "Eta Doradus", "text": "Eta Doradus\n\nThe Bayer designation Eta Doradus (η Dor / η Doradus) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Dorado:\n"}
{"id": "20611107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611107", "title": "Eurasia", "text": "Eurasia\n\nEurasia is a combined continental landmass of Europe and Asia. The term is a portmanteau of its constituent continents (Europe and Asia). Located primarily in the Northern and Eastern Hemispheres, it is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Pacific Ocean to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and by Africa, the Mediterranean Sea, and the Indian Ocean to the south. The division between Europe and Asia as two different continents is a historical social construct, with no clear physical separation between them; thus, in some parts of the world, Eurasia is recognized as the largest of the six, five, or even four continents on Earth. In geology, Eurasia is often considered as a single rigid megablock. However, the rigidity of Eurasia is debated based on paleomagnetic data.\n\nEurasia covers around , or around 36.2% of the Earth's total land area. The landmass contains well over 5 billion people, equating to approximately 70% of the human population. Humans first settled in Eurasia between 60,000 and 125,000 years ago. Some major islands, including Great Britain, Iceland, and Ireland, and those of Japan, the Philippines and Indonesia, are often included under the popular definition of Eurasia, in spite of being separate from the contiguous landmass.\n\nPhysiographically, Eurasia is a single continent. The concepts of Europe and Asia as distinct continents date back to antiquity and their borders are geologically arbitrary. In ancient times the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara, along with their associated straits, were seen as separating the continents, but today the Ural and Caucasus ranges are more seen as the main delimiters between the two. Eurasia is connected to Africa at the Suez Canal, and Eurasia is sometimes combined with Africa to make the largest contiguous landmass on Earth called Afro-Eurasia. Due to the vast landmass and differences in latitude, Eurasia exhibits all types of climate under the Köppen classification, including the harshest types of hot and cold temperatures, high and low precipitation and various types of ecosystems.\n\nEurasia formed 375 to 325 million years ago with the merging of Siberia, Kazakhstania, and Baltica, which was joined to Laurentia, now North America, to form Euramerica. Chinese cratons collided with Siberia's southern coast.\n\nEurasia has been the host of many ancient civilizations, including those based in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and China. In the Axial Age (mid-first millennium BC), a continuous belt of civilizations stretched through the Eurasian subtropical zone from the Atlantic to the Pacific. This belt became the mainstream of world history for two millennia.\n\nOriginally, “Eurasia” is a geographical notion: in this sense, it is simply the biggest continent; the combined landmass of Europe and Asia. However, geopolitically, the word has several different meanings, reflecting the specific geopolitical interests of each nation. “Eurasia” is one of the most important geopolitical concepts; as Zbigniew Brzezinski observed:\n\nAt the moment one of the most prominent projects of the European Union (EU) is the Russia - EU Four Common Spaces Initiative. However, no significant progress was made and the project was put on hold after Russia-EU relations deteriorated after the crisis in Ukraine. An economic union of former Soviet states named the Eurasian Economic Union was established in 2015, similar in concept to the EU.\n\nThe Russian concept of “Eurasia” corresponded initially more or less to the land area of Imperial Russia in 1914, including parts of Eastern Europe. One of Russia's main geopolitical interests lies in ever closer integration with those countries that it considers part of “Eurasia.” This concept is further integrated with communist eschatology by author Alexander Dugin as the guiding principle of \"self-sufficiency of a large space\" during expansion.\n\nEvery two years since 1996 a meeting of most Asian and European countries is organised as the Asia–Europe Meeting (ASEM).\n\nIn ancient times, the Greeks classified Europe (derived from the mythological Phoenician princess Europa) and Asia (derived from Asia, a woman in Greek mythology) as separate \"lands\". Where to draw the dividing line between the two regions is still a matter of discussion. Especially whether the Kuma-Manych Depression or the Caucasus Mountains form the southeast boundary is disputed, since Mount Elbrus would be part of Europe in the latter case, making it (and not Mont Blanc) Europe's highest mountain. Most accepted is probably the boundary as defined by Philip Johan von Strahlenberg in the 18th century. He defined the dividing line along the Aegean Sea, Dardanelles, Sea of Marmara, Bosporus, Black Sea, Kuma–Manych Depression, Caspian Sea, Ural River, and Ural Mountains.\n\nIn modern usage, the term \"Eurasian\" is a demonym usually meaning \"of or relating to Eurasia\" or \"a native or inhabitant of Eurasia\".\nThe term \"Eurasian\" is also used to describe people of combined \"Asian\" and \"European\" descent.\n\nWest or western Eurasia is a loose geographic definition used in some disciplines, such as genetics or anthropology, to refer to the region inhabited by the relatively homogeneous population of West Asia and Europe. The people of this region are sometimes described collectively as West or Western Eurasians.\n\nLocated primarily in the eastern and northern hemispheres, Eurasia is considered a supercontinent, part of the supercontinent of Afro-Eurasia or simply a continent in its own right. In plate tectonics, the Eurasian Plate includes Europe and most of Asia but not the Indian subcontinent, the Arabian Peninsula or the area of the Russian Far East east of the Chersky Range.\n\nNineteenth-century Russian philosopher Nikolai Danilevsky defined Eurasia as an entity separate from Europe and Asia, bounded by the Himalayas, the Caucasus, the Alps, the Arctic, the Pacific, the Atlantic, the Mediterranean, the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, a definition that has been influential in Russia and other parts of the former Soviet Union. Nowadays, partly inspired by this usage, the term Eurasia is sometimes used to refer to the post-Soviet space – in particular Russia, the Central Asian republics, and the Transcaucasian republics – and sometimes also adjacent regions such as Turkey, Mongolia, Afghanistan and Xinjiang. This usage can be seen in the names of Eurasianet, The Journal of Eurasian Studies, and the Association for Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies, as well as the titles of numerous academic programmes at US universities. Another prominent example of this usage is in the name of the Eurasian Economic Community, an organization including Kazakhstan, Russia, and some of their neighbors, and headquartered in Moscow, Russia, and Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan.\n\nThe word \"Eurasia\" is often used in Kazakhstan to describe its location. Numerous Kazakh institutions have the term in their names, like the L. N. Gumilev Eurasian National University (; ) (Lev Gumilev's Eurasianism ideas having been popularized in Kazakhstan by Olzhas Suleimenov), the Eurasian Media Forum, the Eurasian Cultural Foundation (), the Eurasian Development Bank (), and the Eurasian Bank. In 2007 Kazakhstan's President, Nursultan Nazarbayev, proposed building a \"Eurasia Canal\" to connect the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea via Russia's Kuma-Manych Depression in order to provide Kazakhstan and other Caspian-basin countries with a more efficient path to the ocean than the existing Volga-Don Canal. This usage is comparable to how Americans use \"Western Hemisphere\" to describe concepts and organizations dealing with the Americas (e.g., Council on Hemispheric Affairs, Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation).\n\n\nJournal homepage\n"}
{"id": "11249942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11249942", "title": "First voyage of James Cook", "text": "First voyage of James Cook\n\nThe first voyage of James Cook was a combined Royal Navy and Royal Society expedition to the south Pacific Ocean aboard HMS \"Endeavour\", from 1768 to 1771. It was the first of three Pacific voyages of which Cook was the commander. The aims of this first expedition were to observe the 1769 transit of Venus across the Sun (3–4 June of that year), and to seek evidence of the postulated \"Terra Australis Incognita\" or \"unknown southern land\".\n\nThe voyage was commissioned by King George III and commanded by Lieutenant James Cook, a junior naval officer with good skills in cartography and mathematics. Departing from Plymouth Dockyard in August 1768, the expedition crossed the Atlantic, rounded Cape Horn and reached Tahiti in time to observe the transit of Venus. Cook then set sail into the largely uncharted ocean to the south, stopping at the Pacific islands of Huahine, Borabora and Raiatea to claim them for Great Britain, and unsuccessfully attempting to land at Rurutu. In September 1769 the expedition reached New Zealand, being the second Europeans to visit there, following the first European discovery by Abel Tasman 127 years earlier. Cook and his crew spent the following six months charting the New Zealand coast, before resuming their voyage westward across open sea. In April 1770 they became the first Europeans to reach the east coast of Australia, making landfall at Point Hicks, and then proceeding to Botany Bay.\n\nThe expedition continued northward along the Australian coastline, narrowly avoiding shipwreck on the Great Barrier Reef. In October 1770 the badly damaged \"Endeavour\" came into the port of Batavia in the Dutch East Indies, her crew sworn to secrecy about the lands they had discovered. They resumed their journey on 26 December, rounded the Cape of Good Hope on 13 March 1771, and reached the English port of Deal on 12 July. The voyage lasted almost three years.\n\nThe year following his return Cook set out on a second voyage of the Pacific, which lasted from 1772 to 1775. His third and final voyage lasted from 1776 to 1779.\n\nOn 16 February 1768 the Royal Society petitioned King George III to finance a scientific expedition to the Pacific to study and observe the 1769 transit of Venus across the sun to enable the measurement of the distance from the Earth to the Sun. Royal approval was granted for the expedition, and the Admiralty elected to combine the scientific voyage with a confidential mission to search the south Pacific for signs of the postulated continent \"Terra Australis Incognita\" (or \"unknown southern land\"). The aims of the expedition were revealed in the press: \"To-morrow morning Mr. Banks, Dr. Solano [sic], with Mr. Green, the Astronomer, will set out for Deal, to embark on board the Endeavour, Capt. Cook, for the South Seas, under the direction of the Royal Society, to observe the Transit of Venus next summer, and to make discoveries to the South and West of Cape Horn\". The London \"Gazetteer\" was more explicit when it reported on 18 August 1768: \"The gentlemen, who are to sail in a few days for George's Land, the new discovered island in the Pacific ocean, with an intention to observe the Transit of Venus, are likewise, we are credibly informed, to attempt some new discoveries in that vast unknown tract, above the latitude 40\". Another article reported that \"the principal and almost sole national advantage\" of the island discovered by Captain Wallace, that is Tahiti, was \"its situation for exploring the Terra Incognita of the Southern Hemisphere\", and that, \"The Endeavour, a North-Country Cat, is purchased by the Government, and commanded by a Lieutenant of the Navy; she is fitting out at Deptford for the South Sea, thought to be intended for the newly discovered island.\" The \"Gazette de France\" of 20 June 1768 reported that the British Admiralty was outfitting two sloops of war to go to \"the newly discovered island\", from whence they would \"essay the discovery of the Southern Continent\".\n\nThe Royal Society suggested command be given to Scottish geographer Alexander Dalrymple, who had urged that an expedition be sent to make contact with the estimated 50 million inhabitants of the Southern Continent with whom, he said, there was ‘at present no trade from Europe thither, though the scraps from this table would be sufficient to maintain the power, dominion, and sovereignty of Britain, by employing all its manufacturers and ships’. As a condition of his acceptance, Dalrymple demanded a brevet commission as a captain in the Royal Navy. However, First Lord of the Admiralty Edward Hawke refused, going so far as to say he would rather cut off his right hand than give command of a Navy vessel to someone not educated as a seaman. In refusing Dalrymple's command, Hawke was influenced by previous insubordination aboard the sloop in 1698, when naval officers had refused to take orders from civilian commander Dr. Edmond Halley. The impasse was broken when the Admiralty proposed James Cook, a naval officer with a background in mathematics and cartography. Acceptable to both parties, Cook was promoted to Lieutenant and named as commander of the expedition.\n\nThe vessel chosen by the Admiralty for the voyage was a merchant collier named \"Earl of Pembroke\", launched in June 1764 from the coal and whaling port of Whitby in North Yorkshire. She was ship-rigged and sturdily built with a broad, flat bow, a square stern and a long box-like body with a deep hold. A flat-bottomed design made her well-suited to sailing in shallow waters and allowed her to be beached for loading and unloading of cargo and for basic repairs without requiring a dry dock. Her length was , with a beam of , and measuring 368 tons burthen\n\n\"Earl of Pembroke\" was purchased by the Admiralty in May 1768 for and sailed to Deptford on the River Thames to be prepared for the voyage. Her hull was sheathed and caulked, and a third internal deck installed to provide cabins, a powder magazine and storerooms. A longboat, pinnace and yawl were provided as ship's boats, as well as a set of sweeps to allow the ship to be rowed if becalmed or demasted. After commissioning into the Royal Navy as \"His Majesty's Bark the Endeavour,\" the ship was supplied with ten 4-pounder cannons and twelve swivel guns, for defence against native attack while in the Pacific.\n\nProvisions loaded at the outset of the voyage included 6,000 pieces of pork and 4,000 of beef, nine tons of bread, five tons of flour, three tons of sauerkraut, one ton of raisins and sundry quantities of cheese, salt, peas, oil, sugar and oatmeal. Alcohol supplies consisted of 250 barrels of beer, 44 barrels of brandy and 17 barrels of rum.\n\nOn 30 July 1768 the Admiralty authorised a ship's company for the voyage, of 73 sailors and 12 Royal Marines. The voyage was commanded by 40-year-old Lieutenant James Cook. His second lieutenant was Zachary Hicks, a 29-year-old from Stepney with experience as acting commander of the , a 16-gun cutter. The third lieutenant was John Gore, a 16-year Naval veteran who had served as master's mate aboard HMS \"Dolphin\" during its circumnavigation of the world in 1766.\n\nOther notable people on the expedition include the official astronomer, Charles Green, then assistant to the Astronomer Royal, Nevil Maskelyne. Joseph Banks had been appointed to the voyage as the official botanist. Banks funded seven others to join him: a Swedish naturalist Daniel Solander, a Finnish naturalist Herman Spöring, two artists, a scientific secretary, and two black servants from his estate.\n\nCook departed from Plymouth on 26 August 1768, carrying 94 people and 18 months of provisions. On 15 November, \"Endeavour\" reached Rio de Janeiro and stayed there until 2 December, re-provisioning and making repairs. The Viceroy, the Marques de Azambuja, had been warned by his home government that Britain was seeking to extend its overseas power and influence following its victory in the Seven Years' War, and therefore suspected that the observation of the transit of Venus and study of natural history that Cook told him were the aims of his voyage were not its only or main objectives. Cook took offence at the Viceroy's suspicious attitude. In his journal, he described Guanabara Bay, including its defensive fortifications, and noted that the city could be taken by a force of six ships of the line. The ship rounded Cape Horn and continued westward across the Pacific to arrive at Matavai Bay, Tahiti on 13 April 1769, where the observations were to be made. The transit was scheduled to occur on 3 June, and in the meantime he commissioned the building of a small fort and observatory at what is now known as Point Venus.\n\nThe astronomer appointed to the task was Charles Green, assistant to the recently appointed Astronomer Royal, Nevil Maskelyne. The primary purpose of the observation was to obtain measurements that could be used to calculate more accurately the distance of Venus from the Sun. If this could be achieved, then the distances of the other planets could be worked out, based on their orbits. On the day of the transit observation, Cook recorded:\n\nSaturday This day prov'd as favourable to our purpose as we could wish, not a Clowd was to be seen the Whole day and the Air was perfectly clear, so that we had every advantage we could desire in Observing the whole of the passage of the Planet Venus over the Suns disk: we very distinctly saw an Atmosphere or dusky shade round the body of the Planet which very much disturbed the times of the contacts particularly the two internal ones. D Solander observed as well as M Green and my self, and we differ'd from one another in observeing the times of the Contacts much more than could be expected.\n\nDisappointingly, the separate measurements of Green, Cook and Solander varied by more than the anticipated margin of error. Their instrumentation was adequate by the standards of the time, but the resolution still could not eliminate the errors. When their results were later compared to those of the other observations of the same event made elsewhere for the exercise, the net result was not as conclusive or accurate as had been hoped. The difficulties are today thought to relate to the Black drop effect, an optical phenomenon that precludes accurate measurement – particularly with the instruments used by Cook, Green and Solander.\n\nOnce the observations were completed, Cook opened the sealed orders for the second part of his voyage: to search the south Pacific for signs of the postulated southern continent of \"Terra Australis\", acting on additional instructions from the Admiralty. The Royal Society, and especially Alexander Dalrymple, believed that it must exist and that Britain's best chance of discovering and claiming it before any rival European power would be by using Cook's innocuous Transit of Venus mission.\n\nCook, however, had his own personal doubts on the continent's existence. With the help of a Tahitian named Tupaia, who had extensive knowledge of Pacific geography, Cook managed to reach New Zealand on 6 October 1769, leading only the second group of Europeans to do so (after Abel Tasman over a century earlier, in 1642). Cook mapped the complete New Zealand coastline, making only some minor errors (such as calling Banks Peninsula an island, and thinking Stewart Island/Rakiura was a peninsula of the South Island). He also identified Cook Strait, which separates the North Island from the South Island, and which Tasman had not seen.\n\nHe wrote in his Journal on 31 March 1770 that \"Endeavour's\" voyage \"must be allowed to have set aside the most, if not all, the Arguments and proofs that have been advanced by different Authors to prove that there must be a Southern Continent; I mean to the Northward of 40 degrees South, for what may lie to the Southward of that Latitude I know not\".\n\nOn the same day he recorded his decision to set a course to return home by way of the yet unknown east coast of New Holland (as Australia was then called):\n\nbeing now resolv'd to quit this Country altogether, and to bend my thought towards returning home by such a rout as might Conduce most to the Advantage of the Service I am upon, I consulted with the Officers upon the most Eligible way of putting this in Execution. To return by the way of Cape Horn was what I most wished, because by this rout we should have been able to prove the or of a Southern Continent, which yet remains Doubtfull; but in order to Ascertain this we must have kept in a higher Latitude in the very Depth of Winter, but the Condition of the Ship, in every respect, was not thought sufficient for such an undertaking. For the same reason the thoughts of proceeding directly to the Cape of Good Hope was laid aside, especially as no discovery of any Moment could be hoped for in that rout. It was therefore resolved to return by way of the East Indies by the following rout: upon Leaving this Coast to steer to the Westward until we fall in with the East Coast of New Holland, and then to follow the direction of that Coast to the Northward, or what other direction it might take us, until we arrive at its Northern extremity; and if this should be found impracticable, then to Endeavour to fall in with the Land or Islands discovered by Quiros.\n\nA voyage to explore the east coast of New Holland, with a view to a British colonization of the country, had been recommended in John Campbell's editions of John Harris's \"Navigantium atque Itinerantium Bibliotheca, or Voyages and Travels\" (1744–1748, and 1764), a book which Cook had with him on \"Endeavour\": \n\nThe first Point, with respect to a Discovery, would be, to send a small Squadron on the Coast of \"Van Diemen's Land,\" and from thence round, in the same course taken by Captain Tasman, by the Coast of \"New Guiney\"; which might enable the Nations that attempted it, to come to an absolute Certainty with regard to its Commodities and Commerce... By this means all the back Coast of \"New Holland\", and \"New Guiney\", might be roughly examined; and we might know as well, and as certainly, as the Dutch, how far a Colony settled there might answer our Expectations.\n\nHe then set course westwards, intending to strike for Van Diemen's Land (present-day Tasmania, sighted by Tasman) to establish whether or not it formed part of the fabled southern continent. However, they were forced to maintain a more northerly course owing to prevailing gales, and sailed onwards until one afternoon when land was sighted, which Cook named Point Hicks. Cook calculated that Van Diemen's Land ought to lie due south of their position, but having found the coastline trending to the south-west, recorded his doubt that this landmass was connected to it. This point was on the south-eastern coast of the Australian continent, and in doing so his expedition became the first recorded Europeans to have encountered its eastern coastline. In his journal, Cook recorded the event thus:\n\nthe Southermost Point of land we had in sight which bore from us WS I judged to lay in the Latitude of 38°..0' S° and in the Longitude of 211°..07' W from the Meridion of Greenwich. I have named it Point Hicks, because Leuit Hicks was the first who discover'd this land.\n\nThe ship's log recorded that land was sighted at 6 a.m. on Thursday 19 April 1770. Cook's log used the nautical date, which, during the 18th century, assigned the same date to all ship's events from noon to noon, first p.m. and then a.m. That nautical date began twelve hours before the midnight beginning of the like-named civil date. Furthermore, Cook did not adjust his nautical date to account for circumnavigation of the globe until he had travelled a full 360° relative to the longitude of his home British port, either toward the east or west. Because he travelled west on his first voyage, this a.m. nautical date was the morning of a civil date 14 hours slow relative to his home port (port−14h). Because the south-east coast of Australia is now regarded as being 10 hours ahead relative to Britain, that date is now called Friday, 20 April.\n\nThe landmark of this sighting is generally reckoned to be a point lying about half-way between the present-day towns of Orbost and Mallacoota on the south-eastern coast of the state of Victoria. A survey done in 1843 ignored or overlooked Cook's earlier naming of the point, giving it the name Cape Everard. On the 200th anniversary of the sighting, the name was officially changed back to Point Hicks.\n\n\"Endeavour\" continued northwards along the coastline, keeping the land in sight with Cook charting and naming landmarks as he went. A little over a week later, they came across an extensive but shallow inlet, and upon entering it moored off a low headland fronted by sand dunes. James Cook and crew made their first landing on the continent, at a place now known as Botany Bay, on the Kurnell Peninsula and made contact of a hostile nature with the Gweagal Aborigines, on 29 April. At first Cook bestowed the name \"Sting-Ray Harbour\" to the inlet after the many such creatures found there; this was later changed to \"Botanist Bay\" and finally \"Botany Bay\" after the unique specimens retrieved by the botanists Joseph Banks, Daniel Solander and Herman Spöring.\nThis first landing site was later to be promoted (particularly by Joseph Banks) as a suitable candidate for situating a settlement and British colonial outpost. However, almost 18 years later, when Captain Arthur Phillip and the First Fleet arrived in early 1788 to establish an outpost and penal colony, they found that the bay and surrounds did not live up to the promising picture that had been painted. Instead, Phillip gave orders to relocate to a harbour a few kilometres to the north, which Cook had named Port Jackson but had not further explored. It was in this harbour, at a place Phillip named Sydney Cove, that the settlement of Sydney was established. The settlement was for some time afterwards still referred to generally as Botany Bay. The expedition's scientific members commenced the first European scientific documentation of Australian fauna and flora.\n\nAt Cook's original landing contact was made with the local Australian Aboriginal inhabitants. As the ships sailed into the harbour, they noticed Aborigines on both of the headlands. At about 2 pm they put the anchor down near a group of six to eight huts. Two Aborigines, a younger and an older man, came down to the boat. They did not accept the offer of gifts from Cook, whose lack of knowledge of Aboriginal custom may have prevented him from behaving acceptably in such exchanges. A musket was fired over their heads, which wounded the older man slightly, and he ran towards the huts. He came back with other men and threw spears at Cook's men, although they did no harm. They were chased off after two more rounds were fired. The adults had left, but Cook found several Aboriginal children in the huts, and left some beads with them as a gesture of friendship.\n\nCook continued northwards, charting along the coastline. He stopped at Bustard Bay (now known as 1770) at 8 o'clock on 23 May 1770 in 5 fathoms water on a sandy bottom at the South point of the Bay. Cook recounted that his clerk, Orton, had been molested while dead drunk that night, the perpetrators cutting off not only his clothes but also parts of his ears. Cook suspended and sent below the suspect Magra. On 24 May Cook and Banks and others went ashore. He sounded the channel (now known as Round Hill Creek) and found a freshwater stream, noting there was room for a few ships to safely anchor. He noted a great deal of smoke on the hills and inspected one of the closest group of 10 fires around which were scattered cockle shells and other evidence of aboriginal occupation.\n\nA mishap occurred when \"Endeavour\" ran aground on a shoal of the Great Barrier Reef, on 11 June 1770. The ship was seriously damaged and his voyage was delayed almost seven weeks while repairs were carried out on the beach (near the docks of modern Cooktown, at the mouth of the Endeavour River). While there, Joseph Banks, Herman Spöring and Daniel Solander made their first major collections of Australian flora. The crew's encounters with the local Aboriginal people were mainly peaceable; from the group encountered here the name \"kangaroo\" entered the English language, coming from the local Guugu Yimidhirr word for a kind of Grey Kangaroo, \"gangurru\" (pronounced ).\n\nOnce repairs were complete, the voyage continued and at, about midday on 22 August 1770, Cook reached the northernmost tip of the coast. Without leaving the ship, he named it Cape York and departed the east coast. Turning west, he nursed battered ship through the dangerously shallow waters of Torres Strait, earlier navigated by Luis Váez de Torres in 1606. Searching for a high vantage point, Cook saw a steep hill on a nearby island from the top of which he hoped to see 'a passage into the Indian Seas'. He climbed the hill with three others, including Joseph Banks. On seeing a navigable passage, he signalled the good news down to the men on the ship, who cheered loudly. \n\nCook later wrote that he had claimed possession of the east coast when up on that hill, and named the place 'Possession Island'. However, the Admiralty's instructions did not authorized Cook to annex New Holland (Australia) and therefore it is unlikely that any possession ceremony occurred that August. Importantly, Joseph Banks, who was standing beside Cook, does not mention any such episode or announcement in his journal. Cook re-wrote his journal on his arrival in Batavia (Jakarta) when he was confronted with the news that the Frenchman, Louis Bougainville, had sailed across the Pacific the previous year.\n\nIn his revised journal entry, Cook wrote that he had claimed the entire east coast (later naming the region New South Wales) for the British Crown.\n\nIn negotiating the Torres Strait past Cape York, Cook also put an end to the speculation that New Holland and New Guinea were part of the same land mass.\n\nAt that point in the voyage Cook had lost not a single man to scurvy, a remarkable and practically unheard-of achievement in 18th-century long-distance seafaring. Adhering to Royal Navy policy introduced in 1747, Cook persuaded his men to eat foods such as citrus fruits and sauerkraut. At that time it was known that poor diet caused scurvy but not specifically that a vitamin C deficiency was the culprit.\n\nSailors of the day were notoriously against innovation, and at first the men would not eat the sauerkraut. Cook used a \"method I never once knew to fail with seamen.\" He ordered it served to himself and the officers, and left an option for crew who wanted some. Within a week of seeing their superiors set a value on it the demand was so great a ration had to be instituted. In other cases, however, Cook was required to resort to traditional naval discipline. \"Punished Henry Stephens, Seaman, and Thomas Dunster, Marine, with twelve lashes each for refusing to take their allowance of fresh beef.\"\n\nCook's general approach was essentially empirical, encouraging as broad a diet as circumstances permitted, and collecting such greens as could be had when making landfall. All onboard ate the same food, with Cook specifically dividing equally anything that could be divided (and indeed recommending that practice to any commander – journal 4 August 1770).\n\nTwo cases of scurvy did occur on board, astronomer Charles Green and the Tahitian navigator Tupaia were treated, but Cook was able to proudly record that upon reaching Batavia he had \"not one man upon the sick list\" (journal 15 October 1770), unlike so many voyages that reached that port with much of the crew suffering illness.\n\n\"Endeavour\" then visited the island of Savu, staying for three days before continuing on to Batavia, the capital of the Dutch East Indies, to put in for repairs. Batavia was known for its outbreaks of malaria, and before they returned home in 1771 many in Cook's company succumbed to the disease and other ailments such as dysentery, including the Tahitian Tupaia, Banks' Finnish secretary and fellow scientist Herman Spöring, astronomer Charles Green, and the illustrator Sydney Parkinson. Cook named Spöring Island off the coast of New Zealand to honour Herman Spöring and his work on the voyage.\n\nCook then rounded the Cape of Good Hope and stopped at Saint Helena. On 10 July 1771 Nicholas Young, the boy who had first seen New Zealand, sighted England (specifically the Lizard) again for the first time, and \"Endeavour\" sailed up the English Channel, passing Beachy Head at 6 am on 12 July; that afternoon \"Endeavour\" anchored in the Downs, and Cook went ashore at Deal, Kent. His return was unexpected, as newspapers and journals had long since reported fears that \"Endeavour\" had been lost at sea or destroyed in combat against the French.\n\nCook's journals, along with those of Banks, were handed over to the Admiralty to be published upon his return. Lord Sandwich contracted, for £6,000, John Hawkesworth a literary critic, essayist, and editor of \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" to publish a comprehensive account of exploration in the Pacific: not just Cook's ventures but also those of Wallis, Byron and Carteret. Hawkesworth edited the journals of Byron, Wallis and Carteret into separate accounts as volume I and then blended Cook's and Joseph Banks' journals with some of his own sentiments and produced a single first-person narrative that appeared to be the words of Cook, as Volume II. The book appeared in 1773 as three volumes with the title:\n\nThe book went on sale on 9 June 1773 but widespread criticism in the press made the publication a personal disaster for Hawkesworth. Reviewers complained that the reader had no way to tell which part of the account was Cook, which part Banks and which part Hawkesworth and others were offended by the books'\ndescriptions of the voyagers' sexual encounters with the Tahitians. \nCook was at sea again before the book was published and was later much disturbed by some of the sentiments that Hawkesworth has ascribed to him. He determined to edit his own journals in future.\n\nIn 2001, the BBC set about making a documentary which involved a film crew, volunteers and historians retracing the voyage made by Captain Cook. One of the historians, Alexander Cook, documented the journey in his 2004 article \"Sailing on \"The Ship\": Re-enactment and the Quest for Popular History\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7710873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7710873", "title": "Flight distance record", "text": "Flight distance record\n\nThis list of flight distance records contains only those set without any mid-air refueling.\n\nThe Loganair Westray to Papa Westray route and its return flight make up the shortest flight distance for any scheduled air carrier service. The route is 2.8 km (1.7 miles), and travel time, including taxi, is usually less than two minutes. The route is served by Loganair airlines' Britten-Norman Islander aircraft. This record was established when service began in 1967, and it remains in effect as of January, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1994549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1994549", "title": "Gahnite", "text": "Gahnite\n\nGahnite, ZnAlO, is a rare mineral belonging to the spinel group. It forms octahedral crystals which may be green, blue, yellow, brown or grey. It often forms as an alteration product of sphalerite in altered massive sulphide deposits such as at Broken Hill, Australia. Other occurrences include Falun, Sweden where it is found in pegmatites and skarns, Charlemont, Massachusetts; Spruce Pine, North Carolina; White Picacho district, Arizona; Topsham, Maine; and Franklin, New Jersey in the United States.\n\nIt was first described in 1807 for an occurrence in the Falu mine, Falun, Dalarna, Sweden, and named after the Swedish chemist, Johan Gottlieb Gahn (1745–1818), the discoverer of the element manganese. It is sometimes called \"zinc spinel\".\n"}
{"id": "602646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602646", "title": "Great Rann of Kutch", "text": "Great Rann of Kutch\n\nThe Great Rann of Kutch is a salt marsh located in the Thar Desert in the Kutch District of Gujarat, India. It is about 7500 sq km ( 2900 sq miles) in area and is reputed to be one of the largest salt deserts in the world. This area has been inhabited by the Kutchi people.\n\nThe Hindi word is derived from Sanskrit/Vedic word \"\" (इरिण) attested in the Rigveda and Mahabharata.\n\nThe Great Rann of Kutch, along with the Little Rann of Kutch and the Banni grasslands on its southern edge, is situated in the district of Kutch and comprises some between the Gulf of Kutch and the mouth of the Indus River in southern Pakistan. The marsh can be accessed from the village of Kharaghoda in Surendranagar District. The Great Rann of Kutch together with the Little Rann of Kutch is called Rann of Kutch\n\nIn India's summer monsoon, the flat desert of salty clay and mudflats, which average 15 meters above sea level, fills with standing water. In very wet years, the wetland extends from the Gulf of Kutch on the west through to the Gulf of Cambay on the east.\n\nThe area was a vast shallow of the Arabian Sea until continuing geological uplift closed off the connection with the sea, creating a vast lake that was still navigable during the time of Alexander the Great. The Ghaggar River, which presently empties into the desert of northern Rajasthan, formerly emptied into the Rann of Kutch, but the lower reaches of the river dried up as its upstream tributaries were captured by the Indus and Ganges thousands of years ago. Traces of the delta and its distributary channels on the northern boundary of the Rann of Kutch were documented by the Geological Survey of India in 2000.\n\nThe Luni River, which originates in Rajasthan, drains into the desert in the northeast corner of the Rann. Other rivers feeding into the marsh include the Rupen from the east and the West Banas River from the northeast. Nara Canal or Puran river which is a delta channel of Indus River empties during floods into Kori Creek located in the Great Rann of Kutch.\n\nThere are sandy islets of thorny scrub, forming a wildlife sanctuary and a breeding ground for some of the largest flocks of greater and lesser flamingos. Wildlife, including the Indian wild ass, shelter on islands of higher ground, called \"bets\", during the flooding.\n\nThis is one of the hottest areas of India – with summer temperatures averaging and peaking at 49.5 °C. Winter temperatures reduce dramatically and can go below .\n\nMany religions are found here, including Hinduism, Islam, Jainism & Sikhism.\n\nAlthough most of the marsh is in protected areas, the habitats are vulnerable to cattle grazing, firewood collection and salt extraction operations, all of which may involve transportation that disturbs wildlife. There are several wildlife sanctuaries and protected reserves on the Indian side in the Rann of Kutch region. From the city of Bhuj, various ecologically rich and wildlife conservation areas of the Kutch/Kachchh district can be visited such as Indian Wild Ass Sanctuary, Kutch Desert Wildlife Sanctuary, Narayan Sarovar Sanctuary, Kutch Bustard Sanctuary, Banni Grasslands Reserve and Chari-Dhand Wetland Conservation Reserve.\n\nIn India the northern boundary of the Greater Rann of Kutch forms the International Border between India and Pakistan, it is heavily patrolled by India's Border Security Force (BSF) and Indian Army conducts exercises here to acclimatize its troops to this harsh terrain.\n\nThis inhospitable salty lowland, rich in natural gas, was one scene of perennial border disputes between India and Pakistan that, in April 1965, contributed to the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965. Later the same year, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Harold Wilson persuaded the combatants to end hostilities and establish a tribunal to resolve the dispute. A verdict was reached in 1968 which saw Pakistan getting 10% of its claim of . 90% was awarded to India, although India claimed 100% of the region. Tensions spurted again in 1999 during the Atlantique incident.\n\nThe Indus river had been flowing in to Rann of Kutch area and Rann of Kutch used to be its catchment area forming part of its delta. Indus river branch called Koree river, shifted its course after an earthquake in 1819 isolating Rann of Kutch from its delta. Pakistan has constructed Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) project to bypass the saline and polluted water which is not fit for agriculture use to reach sea via Rann of Kutch area without passing through the Indus delta. The 500 km long LBOD, begins from northern Ghotki district in Sindh province of Pakistan and joins Rann of Kutch in Badin district of Sindh. Rann of Kutch is joint water body of India and Pakistan. Water released by the LBOD is enhancing the flooding in India and contaminating the quality of water bodies which are source of water to salt farms spread over vast area. The LBOD water is planned to join the sea via disputed Sir Creek but LBOD water is entering Indian territory due to many breaches in its left bank caused by floods\n\nAt night, an unexplained strange dancing light phenomenon known locally as Chir Batti (ghost lights) occurs in the Rann, the adjoining Banni grasslands, and the seasonal wetlands.\n\nThe Government of Gujarat hosts an annual 3 month long festival during winter called the \"Rann Utsav\" where tourists can see the various sights of the Rann. For 2017, the festival of Rann started on 1 November 2017. \nRann Utsav gives visitors not only a chance to experience full moon on salt deserts but also get a taste of the local culture, cuisine and hospitality. Specially built local houses are also used to house tourists to give them a taste of local traditions\nMany adventure clubs and travel clubs organize expeditions.\n\nSome women and young girls make their living by selling different types of embroidered cloths. The embroidery is of various styles such as Rabari, Ahir, Sindhi, Banni, Mutwa, Ari and Soof, some of which include mirror or bead inlays.\nJ. P. Dutta's Bollywood film \"Refugee\" was shot in the Great Rann of Kutch along with other locations in the Kachchh district. It is said to have been inspired from the story by Keki N. Daruwalla based around the Great Rann of Kutch titled \"Love Across the Salt Desert\".\n\nAmitabh Bachchan in his promotions for Gujarat Tourism titled \"Khushboo Gujarat Ki\" has also extensively shot in the Rann of kutch. Several scenes in Salman Rushdie's Booker Prize winning novel \"Midnight's Children\" take place in the Rann of Kutch, including a scene where the protagonist faints from heat stroke in the Rann's brutal climate. Some scenes or song sequences in Indian films like \"Magadheera\", \"D-Day\", \"R... Rajkumar\", \"Gori Tere Pyaar Mein\", \"Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela\", \"Lagaan\", \"The Good Road\", \"Dookudu\" and \"Sarrainodu\" were shot in the area.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17837035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17837035", "title": "Hardangervidda Natursenter", "text": "Hardangervidda Natursenter\n\nThe Hardangervidda Natursenter (Nature Centre) is a museum and visitor center of the Hardangervidda National Park in Norway. This centre is located in the village of Øvre Eidfjord in the municipality of Eidfjord in Hordaland county. \n\n"}
{"id": "25854501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25854501", "title": "Lava channel", "text": "Lava channel\n\nA lava channel is a stream of fluid lava contained within marginal zones of static (i.e., solid and stationary) lava or lava levees. The initial channel may not contain levees per se, until the parental flow solidifies over what develops into the channel and creates natural levees. This initial levee allows for the building of a more complex levee and channel. As the lava flows through the channel, the elevation of the surface of the lava flow pulsates and lava can possibly flood the associated channel walls spilling out of the channel and over the existing levees, creating what is known as overflow levees. Overflow levees increase the height and width of the original levee. The lava that flows in lava channels is commonly basaltic in composition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "143359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143359", "title": "Leviathan", "text": "Leviathan\n\nLeviathan (; ) is a creature with the form of a sea monster from Jewish belief, referenced in the Hebrew Bible in the Book of Job, Psalms, the Book of Isaiah, and the Book of Amos.\n\nThe Leviathan of the Book of Job is a reflection of the older Canaanite \"Lotan\", a primeval monster defeated by the god Hadad. Parallels to the role of Mesopotamian Tiamat defeated by Marduk have long been drawn in comparative mythology, as have been wider comparisons to dragon and world serpent narratives such as Indra slaying Vrtra or Thor slaying Jörmungandr, but Leviathan already figures in the Hebrew Bible as a metaphor for a powerful enemy, notably Babylon (Isaiah 27:1), and some scholars have pragmatically interpreted it as referring to large aquatic creatures, such as the crocodile. The word later came to be used as a term for \"great whale\" as well as of sea monsters in general.\n\nThe name is a derivation from the root \"lvh\" \"to twine; to join\", with an adjectival suffix , with a literal meaning of \"wreathed, twisted in folds\".\nBoth the name and the mythological figure are a direct continuation of the Ugaritic sea monster \"Lôtān\", one of the servants of the sea god Yammu defeated by Hadad in the \"Baal Cycle\". \nThe Ugaritic account has gaps, making it unclear whether some phrases describe him or other monsters at Yammu's disposal such as Tunannu (the biblical Tannin). Most scholars agree on describing Lôtān as \"the fugitive serpent\" (\"bṯn brḥ\") but he may or may not be \"the wriggling serpent\" (\"bṯn ʿqltn\") or \"the mighty one with seven heads\" (\"šlyṭ d.šbʿt rašm\"). His role seems to have been prefigured by the earlier serpent Têmtum whose death at the hands of Hadad is depicted in Syrian seals of the 18th–16th century .\n\nSea serpents feature prominently in the mythology of the Ancient Near East. They are attested by the 3rd millennium  in Sumerian iconography depicting the god Ninurta overcoming a seven-headed serpent. It was common for Near Eastern religions to include a \"Chaoskampf\": a cosmic battle between a sea monster representing the forces of chaos and a creator god or culture hero who imposes order by force. The Babylonian creation myth describes Marduk's defeat of the serpent goddess Tiamat, whose body was used to create the heavens and the earth.\n\nThe Leviathan is mentioned six times in the Tanakh, in , , , , and .\n\nThe mention of the Tannins in the Genesis creation narrative (translated as \"great whales\" in the King James Version) and Leviathan in the Psalm do not describe them as harmful but as ocean creatures who are part of God's creation. The element of competition between God and the sea monster and the use of Leviathan to describe the powerful enemies of Israel may reflect the influence of the Mesopotamian and Canaanite legends or the contest in Egyptian mythology between the Apep snake and the sun god Ra. Alternatively, the removal of such competition may have reflected an attempt to naturalize Leviathan in a process that demoted it from deity to demon to monster.\n\nLater Jewish sources describe Leviathan as a dragon who lives over the Sources of the Deep and who, along with the male land-monster Behemoth, will be served up to the righteous at the end of time.\nThe Book of Enoch (60:7–9) describes Leviathan as a female monster dwelling in the watery abyss (as Tiamat), while Behemoth is a male monster living in the desert of Dunaydin (\"east of Eden\").\n\nWhen the Jewish midrash (explanations of the Tanakh) were being composed, it was held that God originally produced a male and a female leviathan, but lest in multiplying the species should destroy the world, he slew the female, reserving her flesh for the banquet that will be given to the righteous on the advent of the Messiah.\n\nRashi's commentary on repeats the tradition:\nthe...sea monsters: The great fish in the sea, and in the words of the Aggadah (B.B. 74b), this refers to the Leviathan and its mate, for He created them male and female, and He slew the female and salted her away for the righteous in the future, for if they would propagate, the world could not exist because of them. הַתַּנִינִם is written. [I.e., the final “yud,” which denotes the plural, is missing, hence the implication that the Leviathan did not remain two, but that its number was reduced to one.] – [from Gen. Rabbah 7:4, Midrash Chaseroth V’Yetheroth, Batei Midrashoth, vol 2, p. 225].\nIn the Talmud \"Baba Bathra 75a\" it is told that the Leviathan will be slain and its flesh served as a feast to the righteous in [the] Time to Come, and its skin used to cover the tent where the banquet will take place. The festival of Sukkot (Festival of Booths) therefore concludes with a prayer recited upon leaving the \"sukkah\" (booth): \"May it be your will, Lord our God and God of our forefathers, that just as I have fulfilled and dwelt in this sukkah, so may I merit in the coming year to dwell in \"the sukkah of the skin of Leviathan\". Next year in Jerusalem.\"\n\nThe enormous size of the Leviathan is described by Johanan bar Nappaha, from whom proceeded nearly all the aggadot concerning this monster: \"Once we went in a ship and saw a fish which put his head out of the water. He had horns upon which was written: 'I am one of the meanest creatures that inhabit the sea. I am three hundred miles in length, and enter this day into the jaws of the Leviathan'\".\n\nWhen the Leviathan is hungry, reports Rabbi Dimi in the name of Rabbi Johanan, he sends forth from his mouth a heat so great as to make all the waters of the deep boil, and if he would put his head into Paradise no living creature could endure the odor of him. His abode is the Mediterranean Sea; and the waters of the Jordan fall into his mouth.\n\nIn a legend recorded in the Midrash called \"Pirke de-Rabbi Eliezer\" it is stated that the fish which swallowed Jonah narrowly avoided being eaten by the Leviathan, which eats one whale each day.\n\nThe body of the Leviathan, especially his eyes, possesses great illuminating power. This was the opinion of Rabbi Eliezer, who, in the course of a voyage in company with Rabbi Joshua, explained to the latter, when frightened by the sudden appearance of a brilliant light, that it probably proceeded from the eyes of the Leviathan. He referred his companion to the words of Job xli. 18: \"By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning\" (B. B. l.c.). However, in spite of his supernatural strength, the leviathan is afraid of a small worm called \"kilbit\", which clings to the gills of large fish and kills them (Shab. 77b).\n\nIn the eleventh-century piyyut (religious poem), \"Akdamut\", recited on \"Shavuot\" (Pentecost), it is envisioned that, ultimately, God will slaughter the Leviathan, which is described as having \"mighty fins\" (and, therefore, a kosher fish, not an inedible snake or crocodile), and it will be served as a sumptuous banquet for all the righteous in Heaven.\n\nAccording to Abraham Isaac Kook, the Leviathan – a singular creature with no mate, \"its tail is placed in its mouth\" (Zohar) \"twisting around and encompassing the entire world\" (Rashi on Baba Batra 74b) – projects a vivid metaphor for the universe’s underlying unity. This unity will only be revealed in the future, when the righteous will feast on the Leviathan.\n\nLeviathan can also be used as an image of Satan, endangering both God's creatures—by attempting to eat them—and God's creation—by threatening it with upheaval in the waters of Chaos. \nSt. Thomas Aquinas described Leviathan as the demon of envy, first in punishing the corresponding sinners (Secunda Secundae Question 36). Peter Binsfeld likewise classified Leviathan as the demon of envy, as one of the seven Princes of Hell corresponding to the seven deadly sins. Leviathan became associated with, and may originally have referred to, the visual motif of the Hellmouth, a monstrous animal into whose mouth the damned disappear at the Last Judgement, found in Anglo-Saxon art from about 800, and later all over Europe.\n\nThe Revised Standard Version of the Bible suggests in a footnote to Job 41:1 that Leviathan may be a name for the crocodile, and in a footnote to Job 40:15, that Behemoth may be a name for the hippopotamus.\n\nThe Church Father Origen accused a gnostic sect of venerating the biblical serpent of the Garden of Eden. Therefore, he calls them Ophites, naming after the serpent they are supposed to worship. In this belief system, the Leviathan appears as an Ouroboros, separating the divine realm from humanity by enveloping or permeating the material world. We do not know whether or not the Ophites actually identified the serpent on the Garden of Eden with the Leviathan. However, since the Leviathan is basically connoted negatively in this Gnostic cosmology, if they identified him with the serpent of the Book of Genesis, he was probably indeed considered evil and just its advice was good. Further, according to this Gnostic sect, after death, a soul must pass through the seven spheres of the Archons. If the soul does not succeed, it will be swallowed by a dragon-shaped archon, who holds the world captive and returns the soul into an animal body – a depiction resembling the Leviathan mentioned before.\n\nThe word \"Leviathan\" has come to refer to any sea monster, and from the early 17th century has also been used of overwhelmingly powerful people or things (comparable to Behemoth or Juggernaut), influentially so by \nHobbes' book (1651).\n\nAs a term for sea monster, it has also been used of great whales in particular, e.g. in Herman Melville's \"Moby-Dick\".\nIn Modern Hebrew, the word now simply means \"whale\".\n\nAlfred, Lord Tennyson wrote a sonnet, \"The Kraken\" (1830), which describes Kraken, a Leviathan-like massive creature that dwells at the bottom of the sea.\n\nAnton Szandor LaVey in his \"Satanic Bible\" (1969) has Leviathan representing the element of Water and the direction of west, listing it as one of the Four Crown Princes of Hell. This association was inspired by the demonic hierarchy from \"The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin the Mage\". \nThe Church of Satan uses the Hebrew letters at each of the points of the Sigil of Baphomet to represent Leviathan. Starting from the lowest point of the pentagram, and reading counter-clockwise, the word reads \"לויתן\": Hebrew for \"Leviathan\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30482137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30482137", "title": "List of Adenanthos species", "text": "List of Adenanthos species\n\nThis is a list of \"Adenanthos\" species, subspecies and named hybrids. Taxa are listed in alphabetical order, and summary information is provided. For the most recent taxonomic arrangement, see Nelson's taxonomic arrangement of \"Adenanthos\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3300381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3300381", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Sorbus", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on Sorbus\n\nSorbus species (rowans, whitebeams and allies) are used as food plants by the caterpillars of a number of Lepidoptera species (butterflies and moths). These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2002607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002607", "title": "List of Minnesota wildflowers", "text": "List of Minnesota wildflowers\n\nThis is a list of all the wildflowers native to Minnesota by common name, following Minnesota DNR conventions. Where several species of plants share part of a common name, they have been grouped together under that name; this is for indexing purposes and does not always indicate a taxonomic relationship.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58697851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58697851", "title": "List of Murdo mountains in Scotland", "text": "List of Murdo mountains in Scotland\n\nThis is a list of Murdo mountains in Scotland by height. Murdos are defined as Scottish mountains over in height, above the general threshold to be called a \"mountain\" in the British Isles, and with a prominence over ; a mix of imperial and metric thresholds. \n\nBritish Isles cartographer Alan Dawson, first compiled the list of Murdos in 1995 to provide an objective and quantitative alternative to the more qualitative Scottish Mountaineering Club (\"SMC\") definition of a Munro. Unlike all other Scottish mountain and hill classifications, the SMC does not maintain an official list of Murdos. However, all Murdos are either SMC Munros or SMC Munro Tops. Dawson's threshold was in line with the 1994 UIAA declaration that an \"independent peak\" had to have a prominence of over . \n\n, there were 442 Murdos identified in Scotland. Most definitions of mountains in the British Isles consider peaks with a prominence between as being \"tops\", and not mountains. 203 of the 442 Murdos exceed this prominence threshold, and thus are marilyns. 54 of the 442 Murdos exceed the P600 prominence threshold of to be a \"major\" mountain.\n\nWhen Dawson created the Murdos in 1995 he said \"all Munros are Murdos\", and listed Maoile Lunndaidh, a Munro, with a prominence of . Surveys in 2014, showed Maoile Lunndaidh was lower than Creag Toll a' Choin, and its prominence was ; databases of Murdos (e.g. the DoBIH), no longer list Maoile Lunndaidh as a Murdo (its prominence went to Creag Toll a' Choin), and thus not all Munros are Murdos.\n\nThe list below was downloaded from the \"Database of British and Irish Hills\" (\"DoBIH\") as at October 2018. Note that topological prominence, unlike topological elevation, is far more complex to measure and requires a survey of the entire contours of a peak, rather than a single point of height. These tables are therefore subject to being revised over time, and should not be amended or updated unless the entire DoBIH data is re–downloaded again. The DoBIH classification marks Munros (\"M\") and Munro Tops (\"MT\").\n\nThe DoBIH uses the following codes for the various classifications of mountains and hills in the British Isles, which many of the above peaks also fall into:\n<br>\n\nsuffixes:<br>\n= twin\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19324057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19324057", "title": "List of Nature Conservation Act extinct in the wild flora of Queensland", "text": "List of Nature Conservation Act extinct in the wild flora of Queensland\n\nThis is a list of the flora of Queensland listed as \"Extinct in the Wild\" (formerly \"Presumed Extinct\") under the Nature Conservation Act 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5880098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5880098", "title": "List of Tetragnathidae species", "text": "List of Tetragnathidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Tetragnathidae as of Dec. 28, 2014.\n\n\"Alcimosphenus\" \n\n\"Allende\" \n\n\"Antillognatha\" \n\n\"Atelidea\" \n\n\"Azilia\" \n\n\"Chrysometa\" \n\n\"Cyrtognatha\" \n\n\"Dianleucauge\" \n\n\"Diphya\" \n\n\"Dolichognatha\" \n\n\"Doryonychus\" \n\n\"Dyschiriognatha\" \n\n\"Eryciniolia\" \n\n\"Glenognatha\" \n\n\"Guizygiella\" \n\n\"Hispanognatha\" \n\n\"Homalometa\" \n\n\"Leucauge\" \n\n\"Mecynometa\" \n\n\"Menosira\" \n\n\"Mesida\" \n\n\"Meta\" \n\n\"Metabus\" \n\n\"Metellina\" \n\n\"Metleucauge\" \n\n\"Mitoscelis\" \n\n\"Mollemeta\" \n\n\"Nanningia\" \n\n\"Nanometa\" \n\n\"Neoprolochus\" \n\n\"Okileucauge\" \n\n\"Opadometa\" \n\n\"Opas\" \n\n\"Orsinome\" \n\n\"Pachygnatha\" \n\n\"Parameta\" \n\n\"Parazilia\" \n\n\"Pholcipes\" \n\n\"Pickardinella\" \n\n\"Pinkfloydia\" \n\n\n\"Sancus\" \n\n\"Schenkeliella\" \n\n\"Tetragnatha\" \n\n\"Timonoe\" \n\n\"Tylorida\" \n\n\"Wolongia\" \n\n\"Zygiometella\" \n\n"}
{"id": "34198347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198347", "title": "List of glaciers in Wyoming", "text": "List of glaciers in Wyoming\n\nThere are at least 37 named glaciers in Wyoming.\n\nWyoming is a state in the mountain region of the Western United States. Wyoming is the 10th most extensive, but the least populous and the 2nd least densely populated of the 50 United States. The western two thirds of the state is covered mostly with the mountain ranges and rangelands in the foothills of the Eastern Rocky Mountains, while the eastern third of the state is high elevation prairie known as the High Plains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4601173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4601173", "title": "List of rivers of Korea", "text": "List of rivers of Korea\n\nThe Korean peninsula is mainly mountainous along its east coast, so most of its river water flows west, emptying into the Yellow Sea. Some of these rivers flow through lakes en route to the coast, but these are all artificial reservoirs, as there are no natural lakes on the Korean mainland. A few rivers head south, emptying into the Korea Strait and some more minor rivers flow east to the East Korea Bay, though these are usually little more than streams in comparison. In the list below, tributaries are listed under the river into which they flow and then in upstream order. They are listed counterclockwise, from the Amnok to the Duman.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591384", "title": "List of stars in Canis Major", "text": "List of stars in Canis Major\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Canis Major, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29203952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29203952", "title": "Los Pedroches", "text": "Los Pedroches\n\nLos Pedroches is a natural region and comarca in Córdoba Province, Andalusia, southern Spain. It is located in the Sierra Morena area at the northern end of the province. The main town is Pozoblanco. \n\nThe climate of the comarca is continental. It is the northernmost Andalusian territory. The name of the present-day official comarca is Valle de los Pedroches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33854863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33854863", "title": "Magnetospheric electric convection field", "text": "Magnetospheric electric convection field\n\nThe impact of the solar wind onto the magnetosphere generates an electric field within the inner magnetosphere (r < 10 a; with a the Earth's radius) - the convection \nfield-. Its general direction is from dawn to dusk. The co-rotating thermal plasma within\nthe inner magnetosphere drifts orthogonal to that field and to the geomagnetic field B. The generation process is not yet completely understood. One possibility is viscous interaction between solar wind and the boundary layer of the magnetosphere (magnetopause). Another process may be magnetic reconnection. Finally, a hydromagnetic dynamo process in the polar regions of the inner magnetosphere may be possible. Direct measurements via satellites have given a fairly good picture of the structure of that field. A number of models of that field exists.\n\nA widely used model is the Volland-Stern model \nIt is based on two simplifying assumptions: first, a coaxial geomagnetic dipole field B is introduced. Its magnetic field lines\ncan be represented by the shell parameter\n\nwith r the distance from the Earth, a the Earth's radius, and θ the co-latitude. For r = a, θ is the co-latitude of the foot point of the line on the ground. L = const is the equation of a magnetic field line, and r = a L is the radial distance of the line at the geomagnetic equator (θ = 90°). Second, it is assumed that the electric field can be derived from an electrostatic potential Φ. Since in a highly conducting electric plasma like the magnetosphere, the electric fields must be orthogonal to the magnetic fields, the electric potential shell is parallel to the magnetic shell. The relation \n\nfulfills that condition. Here formula_1 is the separatrix separating the low latitude magnetosphere with closed geomagnetic field lines at θ ≥ θ from the polar magnetosphere with open magnetic fieldlines (having only one footpoint on Earth), and τ the local time. θ ~ 20° is the polar border of the auroral zone.\nq, Φ, and τ are empirical parameters, to be determined from the observations. Eq.() yields for a coordinate system co-rotating with the Earth, its geomagnetic equator being identical with the geographic equator. Since the electric potential is symmetric with respect to the equator, only the northern hemisphere needs to be considered. The general direction of the potential is from dawn to dusk, and Φ is the total potential difference. For a transformation from a rotating magnetospheric coordinate system into a non-rotating system, τ must be replaced by the longitude -λ.\n\nWith the numbers q ~ 2, and Φ and τ increasing with geomagnetic activity (e.g., Φ ~ 17 and 65 kVolt, and τ ~ 0 and 1 h, during geomagnetically quiet and slightly disturbed conditions, respectively), eq.() valid at lower latitudes, (θ > θ) and within the inner magnetosphere (r ≤ 10 a) is the Volland-Stern model (see Fig. 1 a)).\n\nThe use of an electrostatic field means that this model is valid only for slow temporal variations (of the order of one day are larger). The assumption of a coaxial magnetic dipole field implies that only global scale structures can be simulated. The electric field components are derived from \n\nas\n\nformula_2\n\nIn the presence of the geomagnetic field an electric field is generated in a rotating on frame of reference in order to compensate for the Lorentz force. This is the so-called electric co-rotation field measured by an observer rotating with the Earth. With the simplifying conditions give above its potential is \n\nwith Φ = 90 kVolt. The thermal plasma within the inner magnetosphere co-rotates with the Earth. In a non-rotating frame of reference, it reacts to the sum of both fields \n\nin eq.() and (). Since Φ decreases with distance from the Earth while Φ increases, the configuration of the sum of both\npotentials has a torus-like inner region of closed equipotential shells, called the plasmasphere, in which ionized particles of thermal energy remain trapped (e.g.,).\nIndeed, whistler observations have revealed a plasma density within the plasmasphere several orders of magnitude larger than outside the plasmapause, which is\nthe last closed equipotential shell (see Fig. 1b)).\nFrom the shape of the observed plasmapause configuration, the exponent q = 2 in eq.() has been determined, while the extent of the plasmapause\ndecreasing with geomagnetic activity is simulated by the amplitude Φ\n\nThe origin of the electric convection field results from the interaction between the solar wind plasma and the geomagnetic field. In the polar regions with open magnetic field lines (where the geomagnetic field merges with the interplanetary magnetic field), the solar wind flowing through the polar magnetosphere induces an electric field directed from dawn to dusk. Charge separation takes place at the magnetopause. This area is connected via the last closed shell parameter L with the ionospheric dynamo region. Thus, discharging currents flow via electric field-aligned currents (Birkeland currents) along L within the ionospheric dynamo region. The field-aligned currents flow into the ionosphere on the morning side and out of the ionosphere on the evening side. The variability of the solar wind flux determines the magnetospheric activity, generally expressed by the degree of geomagnetic activity observed on the ground.\n\nThe electric convection field in the near Earth polar region can be simulated by eq.() with the exponent q = - 1/2. At the separatrix at \nL ,Φ is continuous. However, a field reversal takes place accompanied by field-aligned currents, both in agreement with the observations.\nThe electric field reversal at L clearly indicates a reversal of the plasma drift within the inner and the polar magnetosphere. \nIn a more sophisticated model, the auroral oval between about 15° and 20°colatitude (again simulated by a coaxial auroral zone), as a transition zone between the field reversal, has been taken into account. The ionospheric dynamo region between about 100 to 200 km altitude is a region where ions and electrons have different mobility. Thus the plasma becomes electrically conducting. Due to the geomagnetic field, two kinds of electric currents exist: Pedersen currents parallel to E, and Hall currents orthogonal to E and B. Moreover, a significant enhancement of the electric conductivity within the aurora area depending on geomagnetic activity exists which influences the parameter τ in eq.() \nThe electric convection field drives strong electric currents within the polar dynamo regions (e.g. DP1 and DP2) which can be simulated by the model. Manifestations of upper atmospheric electric currents are the corresponding magnetic variations on the ground. Unfortunately, this connection is unique only for horizontally flowing current systems. E.g., the vertically flowing field-aligned currents have almost no magnetic effect on the ground. The model allows to separate the contributions of both kinds of electric currents. The polar magnetic disturbances DP2 are mainly Hall currents. The auroral electrojets (DP1) with magnitudes of the order of several hundreds of kA flowing within the aurora zones consist of Hall currents and Pedersen currents. Dissipation of the Pedersen currents produces Joule heating which is transferred to the neutral gas of the thermosphere thus generating thermospheric and ionospheric disturbances. Longer-lasting magnetospheric disturbances of the order of several hours to days can develop into global-scale thermospheric and ionospheric storms (e.g.,).\n\n"}
{"id": "4587101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4587101", "title": "Map coloring", "text": "Map coloring\n\nMap coloring is the act of assigning different colors to different features on a map. There are two very different uses of this term. The first is in cartography, choosing the colors to be used when producing a map. The second is in mathematics, where the problem is to determine the minimum number of colors needed to color a map so that no two adjacent features have the same color.\n\nColor is a very useful attribute to depict different features on a map. Typical uses of color include displaying different political divisions, different elevations, or different kinds of roads. A choropleth map is a thematic map in which areas are colored differently to show the measurement of a statistical variable being displayed on the map. The choropleth map provides an easy way to visualize how a measurement varies across a geographic area or it shows the level of variability within a region.\n\nDisplaying the data in different hues can greatly affect the understanding or feel of the map. Also, the cartographer must take into account that many people have impaired color vision, and use colors that are easily distinguishable by these readers.\n\nColors can also be used to produce three-dimensional effects from two-dimensional maps, either by explicit color-coding of the two images intended for different eyes, or by using the characteristics of the human visual system to make the map look three-dimensional.\n\nIn mathematics there is a very strong link between map coloring and graph coloring, since every map showing different areas has a corresponding graph. By far the most famous result in this area is the four color theorem, which states that any planar map can be colored with at most four colors.\n"}
{"id": "6846955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6846955", "title": "Omai", "text": "Omai\n\nMai (c.1751-1780), mistakenly known as Omai in Britain, was a young Ra'iatean man who became the second Pacific Islander to visit Europe, after Ahu-toru who was brought to Paris by Bougainville in 1768.\n\nMa'i described himself as a \"hoa\", chiefly attendant, the son of a Ra'iatea landowner. His father was killed by Puni's Borabora warriors. Fleeing to Tahiti, Ma'i was wounded in the encounter with the \"Dolphin\" in 1767. Ma'i then became an apprentice to a priest. Returning to Ra'iatea, he was captured and taken to Borabora. Narrowly escaping death there, he escaped to Huahine.\n\nOmai met Samuel Wallis in 1767 and Captain James Cook in 1769 in Tahiti. In August 1773 he embarked from Huahine on the British ship , commanded by Commander Tobias Furneaux, which had previously touched at Tahiti as part of James Cook's second voyage of discovery in the Pacific. Omai travelled to Europe on \"Adventure\", arriving at London in October 1774 where he was introduced into British society by the naturalist Sir Joseph Banks (whom he had also met during Cook's first voyage).\n\nDuring his two-year stay in England, Omai became much admired within London high society. Renowned for his charm, quick wit and exotic good looks, he quickly became a favourite of the aristocratic elite. Banks regularly invited Omai to dine with the Royal Society and arranged meetings with notable celebrities of the time, including Lord Sandwich, Dr Samuel Johnson, Frances Burney, and Anna Seward, among others. Richard Holmes remarks that Omai's idiosyncratic behaviour and distinctive bow were widely celebrated. Indeed, during one famed meeting with King George III at Kew, Omai is said to have delivered his bow then grasped the King's hand, declaring, \"How do, King Tosh!\"\n\nHis portrait was painted by Sir Joshua Reynolds among others, and his journey to England and subsequent return to Tahiti with Cook on his third voyage in 1776 became the subject of a theatrical production, written and directed by the dramatist John O'Keefe, entitled \"Omai – A Voyage ‘round the World\" that was performed during the 1785 Christmas season at London’s Theatre Royal in Covent Garden.\n\nOmai returned to Huahine in August 1777 and was settled with a European-style house, furniture, vineyard and two Maori boys as his servants. During the Bounty's visit to Tahiti in 1789, Captain Bligh was told Omai had died about two and a half years after Cook's departure in November 1777.\n\n"}
{"id": "36974001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36974001", "title": "Open terrain", "text": "Open terrain\n\nOpen terrain, open country or open ground is terrain which is mostly flat and free of obstructions such as trees and buildings. Examples include farmland, grassland and specially cleared areas such as an airport.\n\nSuch terrain is significant in military manoeuvre and tactics as the lack of obstacles makes movement easy and engagements are possible at long range. Such terrain is preferred to close terrain for offensive action as rapid movement makes decisive battles possible.\n\nWind loading tends to be high in open country as there are few obstacles providing a windbreak. This affects the design of tall structures such electricity pylons and windmills.\n"}
{"id": "39552901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39552901", "title": "Ripley's Aquarium of Canada", "text": "Ripley's Aquarium of Canada\n\nRipley's Aquarium of Canada is a public aquarium in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The aquarium is one of three aquariums owned and operated by Ripley Entertainment. It is located in downtown Toronto, just southeast of the CN Tower. The aquarium has 5.7 million litres (1.5 million gallons) of marine and freshwater habitats from across the world. The exhibits hold more than 20,000 exotic sea and freshwater specimens from more than 450 species.\n\nA Ripley's Aquarium was originally planned in 2004 to be built in Niagara Falls, Ontario next to what is now Great Wolf Lodge around 2007, but plans fell through and Ripley's eventually relocated to Toronto. Construction began on the attraction in August 2011 with a final cost approaching $130 million. The aquarium opened to the public in October 2013.\n\nThe project was a partnership with three levels of government. The federal government's Canada Lands Company contributed $10 million to the project to develop the \"John Street Corridor\" linking Front Street with the aquarium, the CN Tower and the Rogers Centre. The Government of Ontario contributed $11 million to the project, and the City of Toronto provided property-tax incentives amounting to between $8 million and $12 million over the first twelve years of the aquarium.\n\nRipley's Aquarium has been the target of animal liberation groups such as TARA (Toronto Aquarium Resistance) and MAD (Marineland Animal Defence), which claim animal captivity is synonymous with animal abuse and regularly conduct protests and demonstrations at the facility. Prominent animal conservationist Bob Timmons has also publicly spoken out against Ripley Aquarium's capture of endangered tiger sharks.\n\nOn Oct. 12 multiple videos emerged, showing a man swimming nude through a shark tank on the main level of the downtown aquarium.\nOfficials at Ripley’s said the man purchased a ticket to enter the aquarium at around 10 p.m. and immediately stripped naked and hopped over a security barrier to access the shark tank, where he was fully visible to dozens of shocked patrons watching from above the water and from a glass observation area on the level below.\n\nAfter splashing around for a while, security eventually convinced the man to leave and he took off before police could arrive.\n\nThe building features a multi-faceted shell clad in large aluminum panels, with the roof of the main entrance that \"gives the illusion of the earth’s crust peeling away to reveal a window into the aquatic world.\" There are also coloured surfaces that juxtapose reflective aluminum soffits. The building was designed with special shielding so that sharks would not be disturbed by its electrical systems.\n\nThe building is located on Bremner Boulevard, to the east of the Rogers Centre, just south of the CN Tower and across the street from the Roundhouse Railway Museum. The aquarium is accessible from the Union subway station using the SkyWalk pedestrian pathway. The building does not have parking of its own. Parking is available in several underground parking garages nearby and surface parking lots. The nearest highway access is the Gardiner Expressway by exiting at York Street. The underground PATH pathway system will eventually be extended to the site from the east.\n\nThe aquarium holds 5.7 million litres (1.5 million gallons) of water and shows marine and freshwater habitats from around the world. The aquarium is organized into ten galleries: Canadian Waters, Rainbow Reef, Dangerous Lagoon, Discovery Centre, The Gallery, Ray Bay, Swarm: Nature by Numbers, Planet Jellies, Life Support Systems and the Shoreline Gallery. It is home to more than 20,000 animals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54076901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54076901", "title": "Riveo Centre", "text": "Riveo Centre\n\nRiveo is an environmental interpretive centre of the river Ourthe situated in Hotton, Belgium, since April 2007. \n\nIn 1996, two nature enthusiasts wanted to establish a structure to sensitize the population of Hotton to the wealth of the Ourthe. The project quickly became bigger with the idea of creating a \"Showcase of Fauna and Flora\" in the garden of the Maison Godenir, thanks to the support of the City and the Region. From 2004, with European funding, several regional actors set up an \"Interpretive Centre of the River\" cell within the tourist information office of Hotton. In March 2007, because of its success, the non-profit-making organization Interpretive Centre of the River became independent and opened its doors on a wildlife and river discovery site that would quickly expand its environmental awareness activities. In 2008, the Interpretive Centre of the River continued to develop with an ongoing project for fishing tourism supported by various regional and European partners. The aim was to set up fishing areas, to create appropriate signage, to train guides recognized by the Tourism Commission and to set up activities (initiation, improvement) for various fishing techniques, equipment provided etc. In 2010, the Interpretive Centre of the River got a facelift and became RIVEO (\"les rives et l’eau\": \"the banks and the water\").\n\nRiveo offers several environmental awareness activities.\n\n\nEuropean competition EDEN And Leader+\n\n"}
{"id": "2628947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2628947", "title": "Rossby radius of deformation", "text": "Rossby radius of deformation\n\nIn atmospheric dynamics and physical oceanography, the Rossby radius of deformation is the length scale at which rotational effects become as important as buoyancy or gravity wave effects in the evolution of the flow about some disturbance.\n\nFor a barotropic ocean:\nformula_1, where formula_2 is the gravitational acceleration, formula_3 is the water depth, and formula_4 is the Coriolis parameter.\n\nFor \"f\" = 1×10 s appropriate to 45° latitude, and \"D\" = 4 km, \"L\" ≈ 2000 km; and for \"D\" = 40 m, \"L\" ≈ 200 km.\n\nThe \"n\"th baroclinic Rossby radius is:\n\nIn Earth's atmosphere, the ratio \"N\"/\"f\" is typically of order 100, so the Rossby radius is about 100 times the vertical scale height, \"H\". For a vertical scale associated with the height of the tropopause, \"L\" ≈ 1000 km, which is the predominant scale seen on weather charts for cyclones and anticyclones. This is commonly called the synoptic scale. \n\nIn the ocean, the Rossby radius varies dramatically with latitude. Near the equator it is larger than 200 km, while in the high latitude regions it is less than 10 km. The size of ocean eddies varies similarly; in low latitude regions, near the equator, eddies are much larger than in high latitude regions.\n\nThe associated dimensionless parameter is the Rossby number. Both are named in honor of Carl-Gustav Rossby.\n"}
{"id": "2071938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071938", "title": "Seven Natural Wonders", "text": "Seven Natural Wonders\n\nSeven Natural Wonders was a television series that was broadcast on BBC Two from 3 May to 20 June 2005. The programme took an area of England each week and, from votes by the people living in that area, showed the 'seven natural wonders' of that area in a programme.\n\nThe programmes were:\n\nThe series covered eight regions of England, having originated as a 'local' television project.\n\nThere was also a series, looking at a similar selection of 'man-made' wonders for each of eleven regions of England.\n\n"}
{"id": "52324983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52324983", "title": "Theta Microscopii", "text": "Theta Microscopii\n\nThe Bayer designation Theta Microscopii (θ Mic / θ Microscopii) is shared by two star systems, in the constellation Microscopium:\n"}
{"id": "2127566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127566", "title": "Trevorite", "text": "Trevorite\n\nTrevorite is a rare nickel iron oxide mineral belonging to the spinel group. It has the chemical formula NiFeO. It is a black mineral with the typical spinel properties of crystallising in the cubic system, black streaked, infusible and insoluble in most acids.\n\nThere is at least partial solid solution between trevorite and magnetite, with many magnetites from ultramafic rocks containing at least trace amounts of Ni. Fe and Mg may substitute for Ni in trevorite.\n\nIt was first described for an occurrence in the Bon Accord Nickel Deposit, Bon Accord, Barberton, Mpumalanga, South Africa, in 1921 and was named for Major Tudor Gruffydd Trevor (1865–1958) who was a mining inspector in South Africa. \n\nIn the Bon Accord deposit it occurred as a contact deposit between an ultramafic intrusion and a quartzite. In an occurrence at Mount Clifford, Australia, it occurs associated with a nickel sulfide orebody adjacent to a gabbro which intruded peridotite. Associated minerals include nimite, willemseite, nickeloan talc, violarite, millerite, reevesite and goethite at Bon Accord; and with native nickel, heazlewoodite and millerite at Mt. Clifford.\n\nIt has also been reported from the Logatchev-1 hydrothermal field on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge; in the Hatrurim Formation in the Negev Desert in Israel; the Josephine Creek District, Josephine County, Oregon and the Gabbs District of Nye County, Nevada.\n"}
{"id": "956625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=956625", "title": "Volcanic field", "text": "Volcanic field\n\nA volcanic field is an area of the Earth's crust that is prone to localized volcanic activity. They usually contain 10 to 100 volcanoes such as cinder cones and are usually in clusters. Lava flows may also occur. They may occur as a monogenetic volcanic field or a polygenetic volcanic field.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33721", "title": "Weakly interacting massive particles", "text": "Weakly interacting massive particles\n\nWeakly interacting massive particles (WIMPs) are hypothetical particles that are thought to constitute dark matter. There exists no clear definition of a WIMP, but broadly, a WIMP is a new elementary particle which interacts via gravity and any other force (or forces), potentially not part of the standard model itself, which is as weak as or weaker than the weak nuclear force, but also non-vanishing in its strength. A WIMP must also have been produced thermally in the early Universe, similarly to the particles of the standard model according to Big Bang cosmology, and usually will constitute cold dark matter.\nObtaining the correct abundance of dark matter today via thermal production requires a self-annihilation cross section of formula_1, which is roughly what is expected for a new particle in the 100 GeV mass range that interacts via the electroweak force. Because supersymmetric extensions of the standard model of particle physics readily predict a new particle with these properties, this apparent coincidence is known as the “WIMP miracle”, and a stable supersymmetric partner has long been a prime WIMP candidate. However, recent null results from direct-detection experiments along with the failure to produce evidence of supersymmetry in the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) experiment has cast doubt on the simplest WIMP hypothesis. Experimental efforts to detect WIMPs include the search for products of WIMP annihilation, including gamma rays, neutrinos and cosmic rays in nearby galaxies and galaxy clusters; direct detection experiments designed to measure the collision of WIMPs with nuclei in the laboratory, as well as attempts to directly produce WIMPs in colliders, such as the LHC.\n\nWIMP-like particles are predicted by R-parity-conserving supersymmetry, a popular type of extension to the standard model of particle physics, although none of the large number of new particles in supersymmetry have been observed.\nWIMP-like particles are also predicted by universal extra dimension and little Higgs theories.\n\nThe main theoretical characteristics of a WIMP are:\n\nBecause of their lack of electromagnetic interaction with normal matter, WIMPs would be invisible through normal electromagnetic observations. Because of their large mass, they would be relatively slow moving and therefore \"cold\". Their relatively low velocities would be insufficient to overcome the mutual gravitational attraction, and as a result, WIMPs would tend to clump together. WIMPs are considered one of the main candidates for cold dark matter, the others being massive compact halo objects (MACHOs) and axions. (These names were deliberately chosen for contrast, with MACHOs named later than WIMPs.) Also, in contrast to MACHOs, there are no known stable particles within the standard model of particle physics that have all the properties of WIMPs. The particles that have little interaction with normal matter, such as neutrinos, are all very light, and hence would be fast moving, or \"hot\".\n\nA decade after the dark matter problem was established in the 1970s, WIMPs were suggested as a potential solution to the issue. Although the existence of WIMPs in nature is still hypothetical, it would resolve a number of astrophysical and cosmological problems related to dark matter. There is consensus today among astronomers that most of the mass in the Universe is indeed dark. Simulations of a universe full of cold dark matter produce galaxy distributions that are roughly similar to what is observed. By contrast, hot dark matter would smear out the large-scale structure of galaxies and thus is not considered a viable cosmological model.\n\nWIMPs fit the model of a relic dark matter particle from the early Universe, when all particles were in a state of thermal equilibrium. For sufficiently high temperatures, such as those existing in the early Universe, the dark matter particle and its antiparticle would have been both forming from and annihilating into lighter particles. As the Universe expanded and cooled, the average thermal energy of these lighter particles decreased and eventually became insufficient to form a dark matter particle-antiparticle pair. The annihilation of the dark matter particle-antiparticle pairs, however, would have continued, and the number density of dark matter particles would have begun to decrease exponentially. Eventually, however, the number density would become so low that the dark matter particle and antiparticle interaction would cease, and the number of dark matter particles would remain (roughly) constant as the Universe continued to expand. Particles with a larger interaction cross section would continue to annihilate for a longer period of time, and thus would have a smaller number density when the annihilation interaction ceases. Based on the current estimated abundance of dark matter in the Universe, if the dark matter particle is such a relic particle, the interaction cross section governing the particle-antiparticle annihilation can be no larger than the cross section for the weak interaction. If this model is correct, the dark matter particle would have the properties of the WIMP.\n\nBecause WIMPs may only interact through gravitational and weak forces, they are extremely difficult to detect. However, there are many experiments underway to attempt to detect WIMPs both directly and indirectly. \"Indirect detection\" refers to the observation of annihilation or decay products of WIMPs far away from Earth.\nIndirect detection efforts typically focus on locations where WIMP dark matter is thought to accumulate the most: in the centers of galaxies and galaxy clusters, as well as in the smaller satellite galaxies of the Milky Way. These are particularly useful since they tend to contain very little baryonic matter, reducing the expected background from standard astrophysical processes. Typical indirect searches look for excess gamma rays, which are predicted both as final-state products of annihilation, or are produced as charged particles interact with ambient radiation via inverse Compton scattering. The spectrum and intensity of a gamma ray signal depends on the annihilation products, and must be computed on a model-by-model basis. Experiments that have placed bounds on WIMP annihilation, via the non-observation of an annihilation signal, include the Fermi-LAT gamma ray telescope and the VERITAS ground-based gamma ray observatory. Although the annihilation of WIMPs into standard model particles also predicts the production of high-energy neutrinos, their interaction rate is too low to reliably detect a dark matter signal at present. Future observations from the IceCube observatory in Antarctica may be able to differentiate WIMP-produced neutrinos from standard astrophysical neutrinos; however, by 2014, only 37 cosmological neutrinos had been observed, making such a distinction impossible.\n\nAnother type of indirect WIMP signal could come from the Sun. Halo WIMPs may, as they pass through the Sun, interact with solar protons, helium nuclei as well as heavier elements. If a WIMP loses enough energy in such an interaction to fall below the local escape velocity, it would not have enough energy to escape the gravitational pull of the Sun and would remain gravitationally bound. As more and more WIMPs thermalize inside the Sun, they begin to annihilate with each other, forming a variety of particles, including high-energy neutrinos. These neutrinos may then travel to the Earth to be detected in one of the many neutrino telescopes, such as the Super-Kamiokande detector in Japan. The number of neutrino events detected per day at these detectors depends on the properties of the WIMP, as well as on the mass of the Higgs boson. Similar experiments are underway to detect neutrinos from WIMP annihilations within the Earth and from within the galactic center.\n\n\"Direct detection\" refers to the observation of the effects of a WIMP-nucleus collision as the dark matter passes through a detector in an Earth laboratory.\nWhile most WIMP models indicate that a large enough number of WIMPs must be captured in large celestial bodies for indirect detection experiments to succeed, it remains possible that these models are either incorrect or only explain part of the dark matter phenomenon. Thus, even with the multiple experiments dedicated to providing indirect evidence for the existence of cold dark matter, direct detection measurements are also necessary to solidify the theory of WIMPs.\n\nAlthough most WIMPs encountering the Sun or the Earth are expected to pass through without any effect, it is hoped that a large number of dark matter WIMPs crossing a sufficiently large detector will interact often enough to be seen—at least a few events per year. The general strategy of current attempts to detect WIMPs is to find very sensitive systems that can be scaled up to large volumes. This follows the lessons learned from the history of the discovery and (by now) routine detection of the neutrino.\n\nCryogenic crystal detectors – A technique used by the Cryogenic Dark Matter Search (CDMS) detector at the Soudan Mine relies on multiple very cold germanium and silicon crystals. The crystals (each about the size of a hockey puck) are cooled to about 50 mK. A layer of metal (aluminium and tungsten) at the surfaces is used to detect a WIMP passing through the crystal. This design hopes to detect vibrations in the crystal matrix generated by an atom being \"kicked\" by a WIMP. The tungsten transition edge sensors (TES) are held at the critical temperature so they are in the superconducting state. Large crystal vibrations will generate heat in the metal and are detectable because of a change in resistance. CRESST, CoGeNT, and EDELWEISS run similar setups.\n\nNoble gas scintillators – Another way of detecting atoms \"knocked about\" by a WIMP is to use scintillating material, so that light pulses are generated by the moving atom and detected, often with PMTs. Experiments such as DEAP at SNOLAB and DarkSide at the LNGS instrument a very large target mass of liquid argon for sensitive WIMP searches. ZEPLIN, and XENON used xenon to exclude WIMPs at higher sensitivity, with the most stringent limits to date provided by the XENON1T detector, utilizing 3.5 tons of liquid xenon. Even larger multi-ton liquid xenon detectors have been approved for construction from the XENON, LUX-ZEPLIN and PandaX collaborations.\n\nCrystal scintillators – Instead of a liquid noble gas, an in principle simpler approach is the use of a scintillating crystal such as NaI(Tl). This approach is taken by DAMA/LIBRA, an experiment that observed an annular modulation of the signal consistent with WIMP detection (see #Recent Limits). Several experiments are attempting to replicate those results, including ANAIS and DM-Ice, which is codeploying NaI crystals with the IceCube detector at the South Pole. KIMS is approaching the same problem using CsI(Tl) as a scintillator.\n\nBubble chambers – The PICASSO (Project In Canada to Search for Supersymmetric Objects) experiment is a direct dark matter search experiment that is located at SNOLAB in Canada. It uses bubble detectors with Freon as the active mass. PICASSO is predominantly sensitive to spin-dependent interactions of WIMPs with the fluorine atoms in the Freon. COUPP, a similar experiment using trifluoroiodomethane(CFI), published limits for mass above 20 GeV in 2011. The two experiments merged into PICO collaboration in 2012.\n\nA bubble detector is a radiation sensitive device that uses small droplets of superheated liquid that are suspended in a gel matrix. It uses the principle of a bubble chamber but, since only the small droplets can undergo a phase transition at a time, the detector can stay active for much longer periods. When enough energy is deposited in a droplet by ionizing radiation, the superheated droplet becomes a gas bubble. The bubble development is accompanied by an acoustic shock wave that is picked up by piezo-electric sensors. The main advantage of the bubble detector technique is that the detector is almost insensitive to background radiation. The detector sensitivity can be adjusted by changing the temperature, typically operated between 15 °C and 55 °C. There is another similar experiment using this technique in Europe called SIMPLE.\n\nPICASSO reports results (November 2009) for spin-dependent WIMP interactions on F, for masses of 24 Gev new stringent limits have been obtained on the spin-dependent cross section of 13.9 pb (90% CL). The obtained limits restrict recent interpretations of the DAMA/LIBRA annual modulation effect in terms of spin dependent interactions.\n\nPICO is an expansion of the concept planned in 2015.\n\nOther types of detector – Time projection chambers (TPCs) filled with low pressure gases are being studied for WIMP detection. The Directional Recoil Identification From Tracks (DRIFT) collaboration is attempting to utilize the predicted directionality of the WIMP signal. DRIFT uses a carbon disulfide target, that allows WIMP recoils to travel several millimetres, leaving a track of charged particles. This charged track is drifted to an MWPC readout plane that allows it to be reconstructed in three dimensions and determine the origin direction. DMTPC is a similar experiment with CF gas.\n\nThere are currently no confirmed detections of dark matter from direct detection experiments, with the strongest exclusion limits coming from the LUX and SuperCDMS experiments, as shown in figure 2.\nWith 370 kilograms of xenon LUX is more sensitive than XENON or CDMS. First results from October 2013 report that no signals were seen, appearing to refute results obtained from less sensitive instruments. and this was confirmed after the final data run ended in May 2016.\n\nHistorically there have been four anomalous sets of data from different direct detection experiments, two of which have now been explained with backgrounds (CoGeNT and CRESST-II), and two which remain unexplained (DAMA/LIBRA and CDMS-Si). \nIn February 2010, researchers at CDMS announced that they had observed two events that may have been caused by WIMP-nucleus collisions.\n\nCoGeNT, a smaller detector using a single germanium puck, designed to sense WIMPs with smaller masses, reported hundreds of detection events in 56 days. They observed an annual modulation in the event rate that could indicate light dark matter. However a dark matter origin for the CoGeNT events has been refuted by more recent analyses, in favour of an explanation in terms of a background from surface events.\n\nAnnual modulation is one of the predicted signatures of a WIMP signal, and on this basis the DAMA collaboration has claimed a positive detection. Other groups, however, have not confirmed this result. The CDMS data made public in May 2004 exclude the entire DAMA signal region given certain standard assumptions about the properties of the WIMPs and the dark matter halo, and this has been followed by many other experiments (see Fig 2, right).\n\nThe next decade should see the emergence of several multi-tonne mass direct detection experiments, which will probe WIMP-nucleus cross sections orders of magnitude smaller than the current state-of-the-art sensitivity. Examples of such next-generation experiments are LUX-ZEPLIN (LZ), which will start as a several tonne mass liquid xenon experiment before moving up to twenty tonnes, and DARWIN, another proposed liquid xenon direct detection experiment which will have a target mass approaching twenty tonnes.\n\nSuch multi-tonne experiments will also face a new background in the form of neutrinos, which will limit their ability to probe the WIMP parameter space beyond a certain point, known as the neutrino floor. However although its name may imply a hard limit, the neutrino floor represents the region of parameter space beyond which experimental sensitivity can only improve at best as the inverse square root of exposure (the product of detector mass and running time). For WIMP masses below 10 GeV the dominant source of neutrino background is from the sun, while for higher masses the background contains contributions from atmospheric neutrinos and the diffuse supernova neutrino background.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1569692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569692", "title": "Western Hemisphere Warm Pool", "text": "Western Hemisphere Warm Pool\n\nThe Western Hemisphere Warm Pool (WHWP) is a region of sea surface temperatures (SST) warmer than 28.5°C that develops west of Central America in the spring, then expands to the tropical waters to the east.\nThe WHWP includes the tropical Atlantic Ocean (TNA) east of the Lesser Antilles, Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, and eastern north Pacific Ocean (ENP).\n\nA WHWP heating cycle begins with warmth in the eastern North Pacific in the spring. A dipole pattern off Central America appears due to surges of cooler, drier air through the gap at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. During spring, the warm pools grow and merge. Their warmth and moisture feed the Mexican monsoon. By summer, the warmth spreads across the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean areas.\n\nRecent studies have shown that the Atlantic portion of the WHWP (AWP) is significantly correlated with Atlantic hurricane activity. A large (or small) AWP reduces (or increases) the tropospheric vertical wind shear in the main development region for Atlantic hurricanes and increases (or decreases) the moist static instability of the troposphere, both of which favor (or don't favor) the intensification of tropical storms into major hurricanes.\n\nA study of climate records has shown a relationship between El Niño and the Western Hemisphere Warm Pool (WHWP). During a normal Northern Hemisphere winter, diabatic heating over the Amazon drives a Hadley cell with descending air over an anticyclone north of 20°N in the subtropical North Atlantic and associated northeast trade winds between Africa and the Caribbean. An El Niño weakens the Amazonian cell, the anticyclone and the easterly tradewinds, causing the tropical North Atlantic to warm more than usual in the spring. About half of El Niño events persist sufficiently into the spring months for the warm pool to become unusually large by summer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45545884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45545884", "title": "Xieite", "text": "Xieite\n\nXieite is an iron chromium oxide mineral with formula FeCrO. It is a member of the spinel group and a high pressure polymorph of chromite.\n\nIt was discovered in samples taken from the Suizhou meteorite which fell in 1986 in the Zengdu District of China.\n"}
