{"id": "145891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145891", "title": "420 (cannabis culture)", "text": "420 (cannabis culture)\n\n420, 4:20, or 4/20 (pronounced four-twenty) is slang in cannabis culture for the consumption of cannabis, especially smoking cannabis around the time 4:20 p.m. (or 16:20 in 24-hour notation) and smoking cannabis in celebration on the date April 20 (which is 4/20 in U.S. form).\n\nIn 1971, five high school students – Steve Capper, Dave Reddix, Jeffrey Noel, Larry Schwartz, and Mark Gravich – in San Rafael, California, calling themselves the Waldos because \"their chosen hang-out spot was a wall outside the school\", used the term in connection with a 1971 plan to search for an abandoned cannabis crop that they had learned about, based on a treasure map made by the grower. The Waldos designated the Louis Pasteur statue on the grounds of San Rafael High School as their meeting place, and 4:20 p.m. as their meeting time. The Waldos referred to this plan with the phrase \"4:20 Louis\". After several failed attempts to find the crop, the group eventually shortened their phrase to simply \"4:20\", which ultimately evolved into a code-word that the teens used to mean consuming cannabis.\n\nMike Edison says that Steven Hager of \"High Times\" was responsible for taking the story about the Waldos to \"mind-boggling, cult-like extremes\" and \"suppressing\" all other stories about the origin of the term. Hager wrote \"Stoner Smart or Stoner Stupid?\", in which he attributed the early spread of the phrase to Grateful Dead followers – after Reddix became a roadie for the Dead's bassist, Phil Lesh – and called for 4:20 p.m. to be the socially accepted hour of the day to consume cannabis.\n\nApril 20 has become an international counterculture holiday, where people gather to celebrate and consume cannabis. Many such events have a political nature to them, advocating the liberalization / legalization of cannabis. Vivian McPeak, a founder of Seattle's Hempfest states that 4/20 is \"half celebration and half call to action\". Paul Birch calls it a global movement and suggests that one can't stop events like these.\n\nOn that day many marijuana users protest in civil disobedience by gathering in public to light up at 4:20 p.m.\n\nAs marijuana continues to be decriminalized and legalized around the world, Steve DeAngelo, cannabis activist and founder of California's Harborside Health Center, notes that \"even if our activist work were complete, 420 morphs from a statement of conscience to a celebration of acceptance, a celebration of victory, a celebration of our amazing connection with this plant\" and that he thinks that \"it will always be worthy of celebration\".\n\nNorth American observances have been held at many locations, including:\n\n\nEvents have also occurred in Hyde Park in London and Dunedin, New Zealand, at the University of Otago.\n\nUsing 25 years of U.S. national data, one study found a 12% increase in the risk of fatal motor vehicle crash between 4:20 p.m. and midnight on April 20 compared to identical time intervals on control days. Among the subgroup of drivers less than 21 years of age, risks were 38% higher on April 20 than on control days.\n\nSigns bearing the number \"420\" have been frequently stolen. In Colorado, the Colorado Department of Transportation replaced the Mile Marker 420 sign on I-70 east of Denver with one reading 419.99 in an attempt to stop the thievery. Though the sign post should appear just east of Flagler, Colorado, travelling east from exit 419 one now only sees mile post 419, and then 2 miles farther sees mile post 421 (as noted after July 2017). The Idaho Department of Transportation (ITD) replaced the Mile Marker 420 sign on U.S. Highway 95, just south of Coeur d'Alene, with Mile Marker 419.9. In Goodhue County, Minnesota, officials have changed \"420 St\" street signs to \"42x St\".\n\nIn 2003, California Senate Bill 420 was introduced to regulate medical marijuana use, in deliberate reference to the status of 420 in marijuana culture. An unsuccessful 2010 bill to legalize cannabis in Guam was called Bill 420.\n\nAs the country dial-code of the Czech Republic is 420 and the rate of cannabis use there is one of the highest in the world, some foreign visitors think that cannabis is legal in this Central European country. However, those smoking cannabis outdoors will be fined and possessing more than 10 grams of marijuana is considered a crime. In 2016, Snoop Dogg displayed his knowledge of marijuana on the game show, \"The $100,000 Pyramid\". Snoop replied without delay that the country code for the Czech Republic is 420.\nHe would later use the number as one of the dollar amounts in the \"Face the Devil\" bonus round of his 2017 reboot of the classic American TV game show \"The Joker's Wild\".\n\nFollowing the success of Washington D.C.'s Initiative 71 to legalize cannabis in 2014, Mayor Muriel Bowser granted license plate number \"420\" to the campaign's leader, Adam Eidinger.\n\n"}
{"id": "35103415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35103415", "title": "A Mão e a Luva", "text": "A Mão e a Luva\n\nA Mão e a Luva (\"The Hand and the Glove\") is a romance novel written by Brazilian author Machado de Assis (1839–1908) and published in 1874. The book is a psychological analysis of society and of \"false naivety\".\n\nThe story revolves around Guiomar, a 17-year-old girl, goddaughter to a baroness. Guiomar wishes to raise her social position and is sought after by three men: Jorge, Estêvão and Luís Alves. Estêvão loves her crazily, purely and innocently – she is his first love. Jorge, nephew to the baroness and her obvious favorite, sees Guiomar as a path to \"social climbing\", and has \"a lustful kind of love\", as described by the author. Luís Alves is a middle-term: his intentions are of an ambitious nature, but throughout the book he gradually becomes fond of Guiomar.\n\nJorge, with the support of the baroness and her British maid, Mrs. Oswald, requests Guiomar's hand in marriage. On the following day, Luís Alves asks as well. The baroness leaves the decision in Guiomar's hands, and, between the two admirers, she chooses Jorge, but the baroness knows she actually wants to marry Luís Alves. She actually marries Luís Alves and the end of the book justifies the title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48081695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48081695", "title": "Al-Bayan (journal)", "text": "Al-Bayan (journal)\n\nThe Arabic periodical al-Bayān (English: \"announcement\" or \"declaration\") was published once or twice a month from 1 March 1897 until 16 August 1898. It was edited in Cairo by Ibrahīm Al-Yāziǧī (1847–1906) and Bišāra Zalzal (1851–1905) and was the successor of the medical journal \"aṭ-Ṭabīb\" (1884–1885). Since 1898, Al-Yāziǧī, a linguist and journalist from Lebanon, particularly built up his reputation as the chief editor of the journal \"aḍ-Ḍiyāʾ\" (1898-1906). Apart from scientific articles, al-Bayān focuses on cultural and anthropological topics such as language and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164", "title": "Artificial intelligence", "text": "Artificial intelligence\n\nArtificial intelligence (AI), sometimes called machine intelligence, is intelligence demonstrated by machines, in contrast to the natural intelligence displayed by humans and other animals. In computer science AI research is defined as the study of \"intelligent agents\": any device that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of successfully achieving its goals. Colloquially, the term \"artificial intelligence\" is applied when a machine mimics \"cognitive\" functions that humans associate with other human minds, such as \"learning\" and \"problem solving\".\n\nThe scope of AI is disputed: as machines become increasingly capable, tasks considered as requiring \"intelligence\" are often removed from the definition, a phenomenon known as the AI effect, leading to the quip in Tesler's Theorem, \"AI is whatever hasn't been done yet.\" For instance, optical character recognition is frequently excluded from \"artificial intelligence\", having become a routine technology. Modern machine capabilities generally classified as AI include successfully understanding human speech, competing at the highest level in strategic game systems (such as chess and Go), autonomously operating cars, and intelligent routing in content delivery networks and military simulations.\nArtificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has experienced several waves of optimism, followed by disappointment and the loss of funding (known as an \"AI winter\"), followed by new approaches, success and renewed funding. For most of its history, AI research has been divided into subfields that often fail to communicate with each other. These sub-fields are based on technical considerations, such as particular goals (e.g. \"robotics\" or \"machine learning\"), the use of particular tools (\"logic\" or artificial neural networks), or deep philosophical differences. Subfields have also been based on social factors (particular institutions or the work of particular researchers).\nThe traditional problems (or goals) of AI research include reasoning, knowledge representation, planning, learning, natural language processing, perception and the ability to move and manipulate objects. General intelligence is among the field's long-term goals. Approaches include statistical methods, computational intelligence, and traditional symbolic AI. Many tools are used in AI, including versions of search and mathematical optimization, artificial neural networks, and methods based on statistics, probability and economics. The AI field draws upon computer science, information engineering, mathematics, psychology, linguistics, philosophy, and many others.\nThe field was founded on the claim that human intelligence \"can be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it\". This raises philosophical arguments about the nature of the mind and the ethics of creating artificial beings endowed with human-like intelligence which are issues that have been explored by myth, fiction and philosophy since antiquity. Some people also consider AI to be a danger to humanity if it progresses unabated. Others believe that AI, unlike previous technological revolutions, will create a risk of mass unemployment.\nIn the twenty-first century, AI techniques have experienced a resurgence following concurrent advances in computer power, large amounts of data, and theoretical understanding; and AI techniques have become an essential part of the technology industry, helping to solve many challenging problems in computer science, software engineering and operations research.\n\nThought-capable artificial beings appeared as storytelling devices in antiquity, and have been common in fiction, as in Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" or Karel Čapek's \"R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots)\". These characters and their fates raised many of the same issues now discussed in the ethics of artificial intelligence.\nThe study of mechanical or \"formal\" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of mathematical logic led directly to Alan Turing's theory of computation, which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as \"0\" and \"1\", could simulate any conceivable act of mathematical deduction. This insight, that digital computers can simulate any process of formal reasoning, is known as the Church–Turing thesis. Along with concurrent discoveries in neurobiology, information theory and cybernetics, this led researchers to consider the possibility of building an electronic brain. Turing proposed that \"if a human could not distinguish between responses from a machine and a human, the machine could be considered “intelligent\". The first work that is now generally recognized as AI was McCullouch and Pitts' 1943 formal design for Turing-complete \"artificial neurons\".\nThe field of AI research was born at a workshop at Dartmouth College in 1956. Attendees Allen Newell (CMU), Herbert Simon (CMU), John McCarthy (MIT), Marvin Minsky (MIT) and Arthur Samuel (IBM) became the founders and leaders of AI research. They and their students produced programs that the press described as \"astonishing\": computers were learning checkers strategies (c. 1954) (and by 1959 were reportedly playing better than the average human), solving word problems in algebra, proving logical theorems (Logic Theorist, first run c. 1956) and speaking English. By the middle of the 1960s, research in the U.S. was heavily funded by the Department of Defense and laboratories had been established around the world. AI's founders were optimistic about the future: Herbert Simon predicted, \"machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do\". Marvin Minsky agreed, writing, \"within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved\".\nThey failed to recognize the difficulty of some of the remaining tasks. Progress slowed and in 1974, in response to the criticism of Sir James Lighthill and ongoing pressure from the US Congress to fund more productive projects, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in AI. The next few years would later be called an \"AI winter\", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult.\nIn the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of expert systems, a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's fifth generation computer project inspired the U.S and British governments to restore funding for academic research. However, beginning with the collapse of the Lisp Machine market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting hiatus began.\nIn the late 1990s and early 21st century, AI began to be used for logistics, data mining, medical diagnosis and other areas. The success was due to increasing computational power (see Moore's law), greater emphasis on solving specific problems, new ties between AI and other fields (such as statistics, economics and mathematics), and a commitment by researchers to mathematical methods and scientific standards. Deep Blue became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion, Garry Kasparov, on 11 May 1997.\nIn 2011, a \"Jeopardy!\" quiz show exhibition match, IBM's question answering system, Watson, defeated the two greatest \"Jeopardy!\" champions, Brad Rutter and Ken Jennings, by a significant margin. Faster computers, algorithmic improvements, and access to large amounts of data enabled advances in machine learning and perception; data-hungry deep learning methods started to dominate accuracy benchmarks around 2012. The Kinect, which provides a 3D body–motion interface for the Xbox 360 and the Xbox One, uses algorithms that emerged from lengthy AI research as do intelligent personal assistants in smartphones. In March 2016, AlphaGo won 4 out of 5 games of Go in a match with Go champion Lee Sedol, becoming the first computer Go-playing system to beat a professional Go player without handicaps. In the 2017 Future of Go Summit, AlphaGo won a three-game match with Ke Jie, who at the time continuously held the world No. 1 ranking for two years. This marked the completion of a significant milestone in the development of Artificial Intelligence as Go is an extremely complex game, more so than Chess.\n\nAccording to Bloomberg's Jack Clark, 2015 was a landmark year for artificial intelligence, with the number of software projects that use AI within Google increased from a \"sporadic usage\" in 2012 to more than 2,700 projects. Clark also presents factual data indicating that error rates in image processing tasks have fallen significantly since 2011. He attributes this to an increase in affordable neural networks, due to a rise in cloud computing infrastructure and to an increase in research tools and datasets. Other cited examples include Microsoft's development of a Skype system that can automatically translate from one language to another and Facebook's system that can describe images to blind people. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had \"incorporated AI in some offerings or processes\". Around 2016, China greatly accelerated its government funding; given its large supply of data and its rapidly increasing research output, some observers believe it may be on track to becoming an \"AI superpower\".\n\nA typical AI perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of successfully achieving its goals. An AI's intended goal function can be simple (\"1 if the AI wins a game of Go, 0 otherwise\") or complex (\"Do actions mathematically similar to the actions that got you rewards in the past\"). Goals can be explicitly defined, or can be induced. If the AI is programmed for \"reinforcement learning\", goals can be implicitly induced by rewarding some types of behavior and punishing others. Alternatively, an evolutionary system can induce goals by using a \"fitness function\" to mutate and preferentially replicate high-scoring AI systems; this is similar to how animals evolved to innately desire certain goals such as finding food, or how dogs can be bred via artificial selection to possess desired traits. Some AI systems, such as nearest-neighbor, instead reason by analogy; these systems are not generally given goals, except to the degree that goals are somehow implicit in their training data. Such systems can still be benchmarked if the non-goal system is framed as a system whose \"goal\" is to successfully accomplish its narrow classification task.\n\nAI often revolves around the use of algorithms. An algorithm is a set of unambiguous instructions that a mechanical computer can execute. A complex algorithm is often built on top of other, simpler, algorithms. A simple example of an algorithm is the following recipe for optimal play at tic-tac-toe:\n\n\nMany AI algorithms are capable of learning from data; they can enhance themselves by learning new heuristics (strategies, or \"rules of thumb\", that have worked well in the past), or can themselves write other algorithms. Some of the \"learners\" described below, including Bayesian networks, decision trees, and nearest-neighbor, could theoretically, if given infinite data, time, and memory, learn to approximate any function, including whatever combination of mathematical functions would best describe the entire world. These learners could therefore, in theory, derive all possible knowledge, by considering every possible hypothesis and matching it against the data. In practice, it is almost never possible to consider every possibility, because of the phenomenon of \"combinatorial explosion\", where the amount of time needed to solve a problem grows exponentially. Much of AI research involves figuring out how to identify and avoid considering broad swaths of possibilities that are unlikely to be fruitful. For example, when viewing a map and looking for the shortest driving route from Denver to New York in the East, one can in most cases skip looking at any path through San Francisco or other areas far to the West; thus, an AI wielding an pathfinding algorithm like A* can avoid the combinatorial explosion that would ensue if every possible route had to be ponderously considered in turn.\n\nThe earliest (and easiest to understand) approach to AI was symbolism (such as formal logic): \"If an otherwise healthy adult has a fever, then they may have influenza\". A second, more general, approach is Bayesian inference: \"If the current patient has a fever, adjust the probability they have influenza in such-and-such way\". The third major approach, extremely popular in routine business AI applications, are analogizers such as SVM and nearest-neighbor: \"After examining the records of known past patients whose temperature, symptoms, age, and other factors mostly match the current patient, X% of those patients turned out to have influenza\". A fourth approach is harder to intuitively understand, but is inspired by how the brain's machinery works: the artificial neural network approach uses artificial \"neurons\" that can learn by comparing itself to the desired output and altering the strengths of the connections between its internal neurons to \"reinforce\" connections that seemed to be useful. These four main approaches can overlap with each other and with evolutionary systems; for example, neural nets can learn to make inferences, to generalize, and to make analogies. Some systems implicitly or explicitly use multiple of these approaches, alongside many other AI and non-AI algorithms; the best approach is often different depending on the problem.\nLearning algorithms work on the basis that strategies, algorithms, and inferences that worked well in the past are likely to continue working well in the future. These inferences can be obvious, such as \"since the sun rose every morning for the last 10,000 days, it will probably rise tomorrow morning as well\". They can be nuanced, such as \"X% of families have geographically separate species with color variants, so there is an Y% chance that undiscovered black swans exist\". Learners also work on the basis of \"Occam's razor\": The simplest theory that explains the data is the likeliest. Therefore, to be successful, a learner must be designed such that it prefers simpler theories to complex theories, except in cases where the complex theory is proven substantially better. Settling on a bad, overly complex theory gerrymandered to fit all the past training data is known as overfitting. Many systems attempt to reduce overfitting by rewarding a theory in accordance with how well it fits the data, but penalizing the theory in accordance with how complex the theory is. Besides classic overfitting, learners can also disappoint by \"learning the wrong lesson\". A toy example is that an image classifier trained only on pictures of brown horses and black cats might conclude that all brown patches are likely to be horses. A real-world example is that, unlike humans, current image classifiers don't determine the spatial relationship between components of the picture; instead, they learn abstract patterns of pixels that humans are oblivious to, but that linearly correlate with images of certain types of real objects. Faintly superimposing such a pattern on a legitimate image results in an \"adversarial\" image that the system misclassifies.\nCompared with humans, existing AI lacks several features of human \"commonsense reasoning\"; most notably, humans have powerful mechanisms for reasoning about \"naïve physics\" such as space, time, and physical interactions. This enables even young children to easily make inferences like \"If I roll this pen off a table, it will fall on the floor\". Humans also have a powerful mechanism of \"folk psychology\" that helps them to interpret natural-language sentences such as \"The city councilmen refused the demonstrators a permit because they advocated violence\". (A generic AI has difficulty inferring whether the councilmen or the demonstrators are the ones alleged to be advocating violence.) This lack of \"common knowledge\" means that AI often makes different mistakes than humans make, in ways that can seem incomprehensible. For example, existing self-driving cars cannot reason about the location nor the intentions of pedestrians in the exact way that humans do, and instead must use non-human modes of reasoning to avoid accidents.\n\nThe overall research goal of artificial intelligence is to create technology that allows computers and machines to function in an intelligent manner. The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken down into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention.\n\nEarly researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical deductions. By the late 1980s and 1990s, AI research had developed methods for dealing with uncertain or incomplete information, employing concepts from probability and economics.\n\nThese algorithms proved to be insufficient for solving large reasoning problems, because they experienced a \"combinatorial explosion\": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger. In fact, even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research was able to model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgements.\n\nKnowledge representation and knowledge engineering are central to classical AI research. Some \"expert systems\" attempt to gather together explicit knowledge possessed by experts in some narrow domain. In addition, some projects attempt to gather the \"commonsense knowledge\" known to the average person into a database containing extensive knowledge about the world. Among the things a comprehensive commonsense knowledge base would contain are: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects; situations, events, states and time; causes and effects; knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know); and many other, less well researched domains. A representation of \"what exists\" is an ontology: the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties formally described so that software agents can interpret them. The semantics of these are captured as description logic concepts, roles, and individuals, and typically implemented as classes, properties, and individuals in the Web Ontology Language. The most general ontologies are called upper ontologies, which attempt to provide a foundation for all other knowledge by acting as mediators between domain ontologies that cover specific knowledge about a particular knowledge domain (field of interest or area of concern). Such formal knowledge representations can be used in content-based indexing and retrieval, scene interpretation, clinical decision support, knowledge discovery (mining \"interesting\" and actionable inferences from large databases), and other areas.\n\nAmong the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are:\n\nIntelligent agents must be able to set goals and achieve them. They need a way to visualize the future—a representation of the state of the world and be able to make predictions about how their actions will change it—and be able to make choices that maximize the utility (or \"value\") of available choices.\n\nIn classical planning problems, the agent can assume that it is the only system acting in the world, allowing the agent to be certain of the consequences of its actions. However, if the agent is not the only actor, then it requires that the agent can reason under uncertainty. This calls for an agent that can not only assess its environment and make predictions, but also evaluate its predictions and adapt based on its assessment.\n\nMulti-agent planning uses the cooperation and competition of many agents to achieve a given goal. Emergent behavior such as this is used by evolutionary algorithms and swarm intelligence.\n\nMachine learning, a fundamental concept of AI research since the field's inception, is the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience.\n\nUnsupervised learning is the ability to find patterns in a stream of input, without requiring a human to label the inputs first. Supervised learning includes both classification and numerical regression, which requires a human to label the input data first. Classification is used to determine what category something belongs in, after seeing a number of examples of things from several categories. Regression is the attempt to produce a function that describes the relationship between inputs and outputs and predicts how the outputs should change as the inputs change. Both classifiers and regression learners can be viewed as \"function approximators\" trying to learn an unknown (possibly implicit) function; for example, a spam classifier can be viewed as learning a function that maps from the text of an email to one of two categories, \"spam\" or \"not spam\". Computational learning theory can assess learners by computational complexity, by sample complexity (how much data is required), or by other notions of optimization. In reinforcement learning the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent uses this sequence of rewards and punishments to form a strategy for operating in its problem space.\n\nNatural language processing (NLP) gives machines the ability to read and understand human language. A sufficiently powerful natural language processing system would enable natural-language user interfaces and the acquisition of knowledge directly from human-written sources, such as newswire texts. Some straightforward applications of natural language processing include information retrieval, text mining, question answering and machine translation. Many current approaches use word co-occurrence frequencies to construct syntactic representations of text. \"Keyword spotting\" strategies for search are popular and scalable but dumb; a search query for \"dog\" might only match documents with the literal word \"dog\" and miss a document with the word \"poodle\". \"Lexical affinity\" strategies use the occurrence of words such as \"accident\" to assess the sentiment of a document. Modern statistical NLP approaches can combine all these strategies as well as others, and often achieve acceptable accuracy at the page or paragraph level, but continue to lack the semantic understanding required to classify isolated sentences well. Besides the usual difficulties with encoding semantic commonsense knowledge, existing semantic NLP sometimes scales too poorly to be viable in business applications. Beyond semantic NLP, the ultimate goal of \"narrative\" NLP is to embody a full understanding of commonsense reasoning.\n\nMachine perception is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras (visible spectrum or infrared), microphones, wireless signals, and active lidar, sonar, radar, and tactile sensors) to deduce aspects of the world. Applications include speech recognition, facial recognition, and object recognition. Computer vision is the ability to analyze visual input. Such input is usually ambiguous; a giant, fifty-meter-tall pedestrian far away may produce exactly the same pixels as a nearby normal-sized pedestrian, requiring the AI to judge the relative likelihood and reasonableness of different interpretations, for example by using its \"object model\" to assess that fifty-meter pedestrians do not exist.\n\nAI is heavily used in robotics. Advanced robotic arms and other industrial robots, widely used in modern factories, can learn from experience how to move efficiently despite the presence of friction and gear slippage. A modern mobile robot, when given a small, static, and visible environment, can easily determine its location and map its environment; however, dynamic environments, such as (in endoscopy) the interior of a patient's breathing body, pose a greater challenge. Motion planning is the process of breaking down a movement task into \"primitives\" such as individual joint movements. Such movement often involves compliant motion, a process where movement requires maintaining physical contact with an object. Moravec's paradox generalizes that low-level sensorimotor skills that humans take for granted are, counterintuitively, difficult to program into a robot; the paradox is named after Hans Moravec, who stated in 1988 that \"it is comparatively easy to make computers exhibit adult level performance on intelligence tests or playing checkers, and difficult or impossible to give them the skills of a one-year-old when it comes to perception and mobility\". This is attributed to the fact that, unlike checkers, physical dexterity has been a direct target of natural selection for millions of years.\n\nMoravec's paradox can be extended to many forms of social intelligence. Distributed multi-agent coordination of autonomous vehicles remains a difficult problem. Affective computing is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems which recognize, interpret, process, or simulate human affects. Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual sentiment analysis and, more recently, multimodal affect analysis (see multimodal sentiment analysis), wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject.\n\nIn the long run, social skills and an understanding of human emotion and game theory would be valuable to a social agent. Being able to predict the actions of others by understanding their motives and emotional states would allow an agent to make better decisions. Some computer systems mimic human emotion and expressions to appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate human–computer interaction. Similarly, some virtual assistants are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of how intelligent existing computer agents actually are.\n\nHistorically, projects such as the Cyc knowledge base (1984–) and the massive Japanese Fifth Generation Computer Systems initiative (1982–1992) attempted to cover the breadth of human cognition. These early projects failed to escape the limitations of non-quantitative symbolic logic models and, in retrospect, greatly underestimated the difficulty of cross-domain AI. Nowadays, the vast majority of current AI researchers work instead on tractable \"narrow AI\" applications (such as medical diagnosis or automobile navigation). Many researchers predict that such \"narrow AI\" work in different individual domains will eventually be incorporated into a machine with artificial general intelligence (AGI), combining most of the narrow skills mentioned in this article and at some point even exceeding human ability in most or all these areas. Many advances have general, cross-domain significance. One high-profile example is that DeepMind in the 2010s developed a \"generalized artificial intelligence\" that could learn many diverse Atari games on its own, and later developed a variant of the system which succeeds at . Besides transfer learning, hypothetical AGI breakthroughs could include the development of reflective architectures that can engage in decision-theoretic metareasoning, and figuring out how to \"slurp up\" a comprehensive knowledge base from the entire unstructured Web. Some argue that some kind of (currently-undiscovered) conceptually straightforward, but mathematically difficult, \"Master Algorithm\" could lead to AGI. Finally, a few \"emergent\" approaches look to simulating human intelligence extremely closely, and believe that anthropomorphic features like an artificial brain or simulated child development may someday reach a critical point where general intelligence emerges.\n\nMany of the problems in this article may also require general intelligence, if machines are to solve the problems as well as people do. For example, even specific straightforward tasks, like machine translation, require that a machine read and write in both languages (NLP), follow the author's argument (reason), know what is being talked about (knowledge), and faithfully reproduce the author's original intent (social intelligence). A problem like machine translation is considered \"AI-complete\", because all of these problems need to be solved simultaneously in order to reach human-level machine performance.\n\nThere is no established unifying theory or paradigm that guides AI research. Researchers disagree about many issues. A few of the most long standing questions that have remained unanswered are these: should artificial intelligence simulate natural intelligence by studying psychology or neurobiology? Or is human biology as irrelevant to AI research as bird biology is to aeronautical engineering?\nCan intelligent behavior be described using simple, elegant principles (such as logic or optimization)? Or does it necessarily require solving a large number of completely unrelated problems?\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, a number of researchers explored the connection between neurobiology, information theory, and cybernetics. Some of them built machines that used electronic networks to exhibit rudimentary intelligence, such as W. Grey Walter's turtles and the Johns Hopkins Beast. Many of these researchers gathered for meetings of the Teleological Society at Princeton University and the Ratio Club in England. By 1960, this approach was largely abandoned, although elements of it would be revived in the 1980s.\n\nWhen access to digital computers became possible in the middle 1950s, AI research began to explore the possibility that human intelligence could be reduced to symbol manipulation. The research was centered in three institutions: Carnegie Mellon University, Stanford and MIT, and as described below, each one developed its own style of research. John Haugeland named these symbolic approaches to AI \"good old fashioned AI\" or \"GOFAI\". During the 1960s, symbolic approaches had achieved great success at simulating high-level thinking in small demonstration programs. Approaches based on cybernetics or artificial neural networks were abandoned or pushed into the background.\nResearchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that symbolic approaches would eventually succeed in creating a machine with artificial general intelligence and considered this the goal of their field.\n\nEconomist Herbert Simon and Allen Newell studied human problem-solving skills and attempted to formalize them, and their work laid the foundations of the field of artificial intelligence, as well as cognitive science, operations research and management science. Their research team used the results of psychological experiments to develop programs that simulated the techniques that people used to solve problems. This tradition, centered at Carnegie Mellon University would eventually culminate in the development of the Soar architecture in the middle 1980s.\n\nUnlike Simon and Newell, John McCarthy felt that machines did not need to simulate human thought, but should instead try to find the essence of abstract reasoning and problem-solving, regardless of whether people used the same algorithms. His laboratory at Stanford (SAIL) focused on using formal logic to solve a wide variety of problems, including knowledge representation, planning and learning. Logic was also the focus of the work at the University of Edinburgh and elsewhere in Europe which led to the development of the programming language Prolog and the science of logic programming.\n\nResearchers at MIT (such as Marvin Minsky and Seymour Papert) found that solving difficult problems in vision and natural language processing required ad-hoc solutions—they argued that there was no simple and general principle (like logic) that would capture all the aspects of intelligent behavior. Roger Schank described their \"anti-logic\" approaches as \"scruffy\" (as opposed to the \"neat\" paradigms at CMU and Stanford). Commonsense knowledge bases (such as Doug Lenat's Cyc) are an example of \"scruffy\" AI, since they must be built by hand, one complicated concept at a time.\n\nWhen computers with large memories became available around 1970, researchers from all three traditions began to build knowledge into AI applications. This \"knowledge revolution\" led to the development and deployment of expert systems (introduced by Edward Feigenbaum), the first truly successful form of AI software. Key component on system arhitecute for all expert systems is Knowledge base, which stores facts and rules that illustrates AI. The knowledge revolution was also driven by the realization that enormous amounts of knowledge would be required by many simple AI applications.\n\nBy the 1980s, progress in symbolic AI seemed to stall and many believed that symbolic systems would never be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially perception, robotics, learning and pattern recognition. A number of researchers began to look into \"sub-symbolic\" approaches to specific AI problems. Sub-symbolic methods manage to approach intelligence without specific representations of knowledge.\n\nThis includes embodied, situated, behavior-based, and nouvelle AI. Researchers from the related field of robotics, such as Rodney Brooks, rejected symbolic AI and focused on the basic engineering problems that would allow robots to move and survive. Their work revived the non-symbolic viewpoint of the early cybernetics researchers of the 1950s and reintroduced the use of control theory in AI. This coincided with the development of the embodied mind thesis in the related field of cognitive science: the idea that aspects of the body (such as movement, perception and visualization) are required for higher intelligence.\n\nWithin developmental robotics, developmental learning approaches are elaborated upon to allow robots to accumulate repertoires of novel skills through autonomous self-exploration, social interaction with human teachers, and the use of guidance mechanisms (active learning, maturation, motor synergies, etc.).\n\nInterest in neural networks and \"connectionism\" was revived by David Rumelhart and others in the middle of the 1980s. Artificial neural networks are an example of soft computing—they are solutions to problems which cannot be solved with complete logical certainty, and where an approximate solution is often sufficient. Other soft computing approaches to AI include fuzzy systems, evolutionary computation and many statistical tools. The application of soft computing to AI is studied collectively by the emerging discipline of computational intelligence.\n\nMuch of traditional GOFAI got bogged down on \"ad hoc\" patches to symbolic computation that worked on their own toy models but failed to generalize to real-world results. However, around the 1990s, AI researchers adopted sophisticated mathematical tools, such as hidden Markov models (HMM), information theory, and normative Bayesian decision theory to compare or to unify competing architectures. The shared mathematical language permitted a high level of collaboration with more established fields (like mathematics, economics or operations research). Compared with GOFAI, new \"statistical learning\" techniques such as HMM and neural networks were gaining higher levels of accuracy in many practical domains such as data mining, without necessarily acquiring semantic understanding of the datasets. The increased successes with real-world data led to increasing emphasis on comparing different approaches against shared test data to see which approach performed best in a broader context than that provided by idiosyncratic toy models; AI research was becoming more scientific. Nowadays results of experiments are often rigorously measurable, and are sometimes (with difficulty) reproducible. Different statistical learning techniques have different limitations; for example, basic HMM cannot model the infinite possible combinations of natural language. Critics note that the shift from GOFAI to statistical learning is often also a shift away from Explainable AI. In AGI research, some scholars caution against over-reliance on statistical learning, and argue that continuing research into GOFAI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence.\n\n\n\nAI has developed a large number of tools to solve the most difficult problems in computer science. A few of the most general of these methods are discussed below.\n\nMany problems in AI can be solved in theory by intelligently searching through many possible solutions: Reasoning can be reduced to performing a search. For example, logical proof can be viewed as searching for a path that leads from premises to conclusions, where each step is the application of an inference rule. Planning algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called means-ends analysis. Robotics algorithms for moving limbs and grasping objects use local searches in configuration space. Many learning algorithms use search algorithms based on optimization.\n\nSimple exhaustive searches are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the search space (the number of places to search) quickly grows to astronomical numbers. The result is a search that is too slow or never completes. The solution, for many problems, is to use \"heuristics\" or \"rules of thumb\" that prioritize choices in favor of those that are more likely to reach a goal and to do so in a shorter number of steps. In some search methodologies heuristics can also serve to entirely eliminate some choices that are unlikely to lead to a goal (called \"pruning the search tree\"). Heuristics supply the program with a \"best guess\" for the path on which the solution lies. Heuristics limit the search for solutions into a smaller sample size.\n\nA very different kind of search came to prominence in the 1990s, based on the mathematical theory of optimization. For many problems, it is possible to begin the search with some form of a guess and then refine the guess incrementally until no more refinements can be made. These algorithms can be visualized as blind hill climbing: we begin the search at a random point on the landscape, and then, by jumps or steps, we keep moving our guess uphill, until we reach the top. Other optimization algorithms are simulated annealing, beam search and random optimization.\nEvolutionary computation uses a form of optimization search. For example, they may begin with a population of organisms (the guesses) and then allow them to mutate and recombine, selecting only the fittest to survive each generation (refining the guesses). Classic evolutionary algorithms include genetic algorithms, gene expression programming, and genetic programming. Alternatively, distributed search processes can coordinate via swarm intelligence algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are particle swarm optimization (inspired by bird flocking) and ant colony optimization (inspired by ant trails).\n\nLogic is used for knowledge representation and problem solving, but it can be applied to other problems as well. For example, the satplan algorithm uses logic for planning and inductive logic programming is a method for learning.\n\nSeveral different forms of logic are used in AI research. Propositional logic involves truth functions such as \"or\" and \"not\". First-order logic adds quantifiers and predicates, and can express facts about objects, their properties, and their relations with each other. Fuzzy set theory assigns a \"degree of truth\" (between 0 and 1) to vague statements such as \"Alice is old\" (or rich, or tall, or hungry) that are too linguistically imprecise to be completely true or false. Fuzzy logic is successfully used in control systems to allow experts to contribute vague rules such as \"if you are close to the destination station and moving fast, increase the train's brake pressure\"; these vague rules can then be numerically refined within the system. Fuzzy logic fails to scale well in knowledge bases; many AI researchers question the validity of chaining fuzzy-logic inferences.\n\nDefault logics, non-monotonic logics and circumscription are forms of logic designed to help with default reasoning and the qualification problem. Several extensions of logic have been designed to handle specific domains of knowledge, such as: description logics; situation calculus, event calculus and fluent calculus (for representing events and time); causal calculus; belief calculus; and modal logics.\n\nOverall, qualitiative symbolic logic is brittle and scales poorly in the presence of noise or other uncertainty. Exceptions to rules are numerous, and it is difficult for logical systems to function in the presence of contradictory rules.\n\nMany problems in AI (in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of powerful tools to solve these problems using methods from probability theory and economics.\n\nBayesian networks are a very general tool that can be used for a large number of problems: reasoning (using the Bayesian inference algorithm), learning (using the expectation-maximization algorithm), planning (using decision networks) and perception (using dynamic Bayesian networks). Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping perception systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g., hidden Markov models or Kalman filters). Compared with symbolic logic, formal Bayesian inference is computationally expensive. For inference to be tractable, most observations must be conditionally independent of one another. Complicated graphs with diamonds or other \"loops\" (undirected cycles) can require a sophisticated method such as Markov Chain Monte Carlo, which spreads an ensemble of random walkers throughout the Bayesian network and attempts to converge to an assessment of the conditional probabilities. Bayesian networks are used on Xbox Live to rate and match players; wins and losses are \"evidence\" of how good a player is. AdSense uses a Bayesian network with over 300 million edges to learn which ads to serve.\n\nA key concept from the science of economics is \"utility\": a measure of how valuable something is to an intelligent agent. Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using decision theory, decision analysis, and information value theory. These tools include models such as Markov decision processes, dynamic decision networks, game theory and mechanism design.\n\nThe simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (\"if shiny then diamond\") and controllers (\"if shiny then pick up\"). Controllers do, however, also classify conditions before inferring actions, and therefore classification forms a central part of many AI systems. Classifiers are functions that use pattern matching to determine a closest match. They can be tuned according to examples, making them very attractive for use in AI. These examples are known as observations or patterns. In supervised learning, each pattern belongs to a certain predefined class. A class can be seen as a decision that has to be made. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a data set. When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience.\n\nA classifier can be trained in various ways; there are many statistical and machine learning approaches. The decision tree is perhaps the most widely used machine learning algorithm. Other widely used classifiers are the neural network,\nk-nearest neighbor algorithm,\nkernel methods such as the support vector machine (SVM),\nGaussian mixture model, and the extremely popular naive Bayes classifier. Classifier performance depends greatly on the characteristics of the data to be classified, such as the dataset size, distribution of samples across classes, the dimensionality, and the level of noise. Model-based classifiers perform well if the assumed model is an extremely good fit for the actual data. Otherwise, if no matching model is available, and if accuracy (rather than speed or scalability) is the sole concern, conventional wisdom is that discriminative classifiers (especially SVM) tend to be more accurate than model-based classifiers such as \"naive Bayes\" on most practical data sets.\n\nNeural networks, or neural nets, were inspired by the architecture of neurons in the human brain. A simple \"neuron\" \"N\" accepts input from multiple other neurons, each of which, when activated (or \"fired\"), cast a weighted \"vote\" for or against whether neuron \"N\" should itself activate. Learning requires an algorithm to adjust these weights based on the training data; one simple algorithm (dubbed \"fire together, wire together\") is to increase the weight between two connected neurons when the activation of one triggers the successful activation of another. The net forms \"concepts\" that are distributed among a subnetwork of shared neurons that tend to fire together; a concept meaning \"leg\" might be coupled with a subnetwork meaning \"foot\" that includes the sound for \"foot\". Neurons have a continuous spectrum of activation; in addition, neurons can process inputs in a nonlinear way rather than weighing straightforward votes. Modern neural nets can learn both continuous functions and, surprisingly, digital logical operations. Neural networks' early successes included predicting the stock market and (in 1995) a mostly self-driving car. In the 2010s, advances in neural networks using deep learning thrust AI into widespread public consciousness and contributed to an enormous upshift in corporate AI spending; for example, AI-related M&A in 2017 was over 25 times as large as in 2015.\n\nThe study of non-learning artificial neural networks began in the decade before the field of AI research was founded, in the work of Walter Pitts and Warren McCullouch. Frank Rosenblatt invented the perceptron, a learning network with a single layer, similar to the old concept of linear regression. Early pioneers also include Alexey Grigorevich Ivakhnenko, Teuvo Kohonen, Stephen Grossberg, Kunihiko Fukushima, Christoph von der Malsburg, David Willshaw, Shun-Ichi Amari, Bernard Widrow, John Hopfield, Eduardo R. Caianiello, and others.\n\nThe main categories of networks are acyclic or feedforward neural networks (where the signal passes in only one direction) and recurrent neural networks (which allow feedback and short-term memories of previous input events). Among the most popular feedforward networks are perceptrons, multi-layer perceptrons and radial basis networks. Neural networks can be applied to the problem of intelligent control (for robotics) or learning, using such techniques as Hebbian learning (\"fire together, wire together\"), GMDH or competitive learning.\n\nToday, neural networks are often trained by the backpropagation algorithm, which had been around since 1970 as the reverse mode of automatic differentiation published by Seppo Linnainmaa, and was introduced to neural networks by Paul Werbos.\n\nHierarchical temporal memory is an approach that models some of the structural and algorithmic properties of the neocortex.\n\nIn short, most neural networks use some form of gradient descent on a hand-created neural topology. However, some research groups, such as Uber, argue that simple neuroevolution to mutate new neural network topologies and weights may be competitive with sophisticated gradient descent approaches. One advantage of neuroevolution is that it may be less prone to get caught in \"dead ends\".\n\nDeep learning is any artificial neural network that can learn a long chain of causal links. For example, a feedforward network with six hidden layers can learn a seven-link causal chain (six hidden layers + output layer) and has a \"credit assignment path\" (CAP) depth of seven. Many deep learning systems need to be able to learn chains ten or more causal links in length. Deep learning has transformed many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing and others.\n\nAccording to one overview, the expression \"Deep Learning\" was introduced to the Machine Learning community by Rina Dechter in 1986 and gained traction after\nIgor Aizenberg and colleagues introduced it to Artificial Neural Networks in 2000. The first functional Deep Learning networks were published by Alexey Grigorevich Ivakhnenko and V. G. Lapa in 1965. These networks are trained one layer at a time. Ivakhnenko's 1971 paper describes the learning of a deep feedforward multilayer perceptron with eight layers, already much deeper than many later networks. In 2006, a publication by Geoffrey Hinton and Ruslan Salakhutdinov introduced another way of pre-training many-layered feedforward neural networks (FNNs) one layer at a time, treating each layer in turn as an unsupervised restricted Boltzmann machine, then using supervised backpropagation for fine-tuning. Similar to shallow artificial neural networks, deep neural networks can model complex non-linear relationships. Over the last few years, advances in both machine learning algorithms and computer hardware have led to more efficient methods for training deep neural networks that contain many layers of non-linear hidden units and a very large output layer.\n\nDeep learning often uses convolutional neural networks (CNNs), whose origins can be traced back to the Neocognitron introduced by Kunihiko Fukushima in 1980. In 1989, Yann LeCun and colleagues applied backpropagation to such an architecture. In the early 2000s, in an industrial application CNNs already processed an estimated 10% to 20% of all the checks written in the US.\nSince 2011, fast implementations of CNNs on GPUs have\nwon many visual pattern recognition competitions.\n\nCNNs with 12 convolutional layers were used in conjunction with reinforcement learning by Deepmind's \"AlphaGo Lee\", the program that beat a top Go champion in 2016.\n\nEarly on, deep learning was also applied to sequence learning with recurrent neural networks (RNNs) which are in theory Turing complete and can run arbitrary programs to process arbitrary sequences of inputs. The depth of an RNN is unlimited and depends on the length of its input sequence; thus, an RNN is an example of deep learning. RNNs can be trained by gradient descent but suffer from the vanishing gradient problem. In 1992, it was shown that unsupervised pre-training of a stack of recurrent neural networks can speed up subsequent supervised learning of deep sequential problems.\n\nNumerous researchers now use variants of a deep learning recurrent NN called the long short-term memory (LSTM) network published by Hochreiter & Schmidhuber in 1997. LSTM is often trained by Connectionist Temporal Classification (CTC). At Google, Microsoft and Baidu this approach has revolutionised speech recognition. For example, in 2015, Google's speech recognition experienced a dramatic performance jump of 49% through CTC-trained LSTM, which is now available through Google Voice to billions of smartphone users. Google also used LSTM to improve machine translation, Language Modeling and Multilingual Language Processing. LSTM combined with CNNs also improved automatic image captioning and a plethora of other applications.\n\nAI, like electricity or the steam engine, is a general purpose technology. There is no consensus on how to characterize which tasks AI tends to excel at. While projects such as AlphaZero have succeeded in generating their own knowledge from scratch, many other machine learning projects require large training datasets. Researcher Andrew Ng has suggested, as a \"highly imperfect rule of thumb\", that \"almost anything a typical human can do with less than one second of mental thought, we can probably now or in the near future automate using AI.\" Moravec's paradox suggests that AI lags humans at many tasks that the human brain has specifically evolved to perform well.\n\nGames provide a well-publicized benchmark for assessing rates of progress. AlphaGo around 2016 brought the era of classical board-game benchmarks to a close. Games of imperfect knowledge provide new challenges to AI in the area of game theory. E-sports such as StarCraft continue to provide additional public benchmarks. There are many competitions and prizes, such as the Imagenet Challenge, to promote research in artificial intelligence. The most common areas of competition include general machine intelligence, conversational behavior, data-mining, robotic cars, and robot soccer as well as conventional games.\n\nThe \"imitation game\" (an interpretation of the 1950 Turing test that assesses whether a computer can imitate a human) is nowadays considered too exploitable to be a meaningful benchmark. A derivative of the Turing test is the Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart (CAPTCHA). As the name implies, this helps to determine that a user is an actual person and not a computer posing as a human. In contrast to the standard Turing test, CAPTCHA is administered by a machine and targeted to a human as opposed to being administered by a human and targeted to a machine. A computer asks a user to complete a simple test then generates a grade for that test. Computers are unable to solve the problem, so correct solutions are deemed to be the result of a person taking the test. A common type of CAPTCHA is the test that requires the typing of distorted letters, numbers or symbols that appear in an image undecipherable by a computer.\n\nProposed \"universal intelligence\" tests aim to compare how well machines, humans, and even non-human animals perform on problem sets that are generic as possible. At an extreme, the test suite can contain every possible problem, weighted by Kolmogorov complexity; unfortunately, these problem sets tend to be dominated by impoverished pattern-matching exercises where a tuned AI can easily exceed human performance levels.\n\nAI is relevant to any intellectual task. Modern artificial intelligence techniques are pervasive and are too numerous to list here. Frequently, when a technique reaches mainstream use, it is no longer considered artificial intelligence; this phenomenon is described as the AI effect.\n\nHigh-profile examples of AI include autonomous vehicles (such as drones and self-driving cars), medical diagnosis, creating art (such as poetry), proving mathematical theorems, playing games (such as Chess or Go), search engines (such as Google search), online assistants (such as Siri), image recognition in photographs, spam filtering, predicting flight delays, prediction of judicial decisions and targeting online advertisements.\n\nWith social media sites overtaking TV as a source for news for young people and news organisations increasingly reliant on social media platforms for generating distribution, major publishers now use artificial intelligence (AI) technology to post stories more effectively and generate higher volumes of traffic.\n\nAI is being applied to the high cost problem of dosage issues—where findings suggested that AI could save $16 billion. In 2016, a ground breaking study in California found that a mathematical formula developed with the help of AI correctly determined the accurate dose of immunosuppressant drugs to give to organ patients. \nArtificial intelligence is breaking into the healthcare industry by assisting doctors. According to Bloomberg Technology, Microsoft has developed AI to help doctors find the right treatments for cancer. There is a great amount of research and drugs developed relating to cancer. In detail, there are more than 800 medicines and vaccines to treat cancer. This negatively affects the doctors, because there are too many options to choose from, making it more difficult to choose the right drugs for the patients. Microsoft is working on a project to develop a machine called \"Hanover\". Its goal is to memorize all the papers necessary to cancer and help predict which combinations of drugs will be most effective for each patient. One project that is being worked on at the moment is fighting myeloid leukemia, a fatal cancer where the treatment has not improved in decades. Another study was reported to have found that artificial intelligence was as good as trained doctors in identifying skin cancers. Another study is using artificial intelligence to try and monitor multiple high-risk patients, and this is done by asking each patient numerous questions based on data acquired from live doctor to patient interactions.\n\nAccording to CNN, a recent study by surgeons at the Children's National Medical Center in Washington successfully demonstrated surgery with an autonomous robot. The team supervised the robot while it performed soft-tissue surgery, stitching together a pig's bowel during open surgery, and doing so better than a human surgeon, the team claimed. IBM has created its own artificial intelligence computer, the IBM Watson, which has beaten human intelligence (at some levels). Watson not only won at the game show \"Jeopardy!\" against former champions, but was declared a hero after successfully diagnosing a woman who was suffering from leukemia.\n\nIn the field of mental health care, artificial intelligence can be used to improve the diagnosis efficiency and helpfulness with patients. A study done in 2012 showed the use of an classification model that was built to shorten the 91-part Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R) that is used to identify autism disorder through behavior . Through their analysis of the data from the Autism Genomic Resource Exchange (AGRE), they were able to build a decision tree classifier that contained only 7 questions, and was able to identify autism with the 99.7% of the same accuracy as the 91-part ADI-R examination. Not only can artificial intelligence streamline the process, but an entirely artificially intelligent diagnosis system could potentially have a greater reach in clients and cater better to their needs. In fact, initial studies show that patients would be more comfortable with disclosing information to virtual humans rather than medical staff because virtual humans are able to spend more time with patients, are always friendly, and do not make the patient feel rushed . \n\nIn trauma cases, artificial intelligence has found it’s role in alternative or supplemental treatment methods. A great example is the use of Virtual Reality (VR) as a form of trauma therapy. While VR is not the artificial intelligence we often think of when we think of AI, many involve response learning techniques, movement and gesture recognition, and many techniques implemented in even some of the most complex artificial intelligence technologies. A study done by Albert Rizzo et. al (2011) highlights the uses of VR to prevent and treat combat-related PTSD symptoms. In this study, Rizzo and company tested a sample of 20 individuals who measured above a 50 on a pre-treatment baseline score examination. Through an 11 week, 11-step treatment regimen using Virtual Reality Exposure Therapy (VRET), they were able to significantly reduce scores on the same two tests. Mean scores on the Beck Anxiety test went down from a mean score of about 19 to 12 post-treatment, and down to 7 after a 3 month follow up. Similarly, patient’s mean scores on the Patient Health Questionnaire-Depression (PHQ-Depression) went from about 13, to 7.5 post treatment, and down to 5.5 after a 3 month follow up.\n\nAdvancements in AI have contributed to the growth of the automotive industry through the creation and evolution of self-driving vehicles. , there are over 30 companies utilizing AI into the creation of driverless cars. A few companies involved with AI include Tesla, Google, and Apple.\n\nMany components contribute to the functioning of self-driving cars. These vehicles incorporate systems such as braking, lane changing, collision prevention, navigation and mapping. Together, these systems, as well as high performance computers, are integrated into one complex vehicle.\n\nRecent developments in autonomous automobiles have made the innovation of self-driving trucks possible, though they are still in the testing phase. The UK government has passed legislation to begin testing of self-driving truck platoons in 2018. Self-driving truck platoons are a fleet of self-driving trucks following the lead of one non-self-driving truck, so the truck platoons aren't entirely autonomous yet. Meanwhile, the Daimler, a German automobile corporation, is testing the Freightliner Inspiration which is a semi-autonomous truck that will only be used on the highway.\n\nOne main factor that influences the ability for a driver-less automobile to function is mapping. In general, the vehicle would be pre-programmed with a map of the area being driven. This map would include data on the approximations of street light and curb heights in order for the vehicle to be aware of its surroundings. However, Google has been working on an algorithm with the purpose of eliminating the need for pre-programmed maps and instead, creating a device that would be able to adjust to a variety of new surroundings. Some self-driving cars are not equipped with steering wheels or brake pedals, so there has also been research focused on creating an algorithm that is capable of maintaining a safe environment for the passengers in the vehicle through awareness of speed and driving conditions.\n\nAnother factor that is influencing the ability for a driver-less automobile is the safety of the passenger. To make a driver-less automobile, engineers must program it to handle high-risk situations. These situations could include a head-on collision with pedestrians. The car's main goal should be to make a decision that would avoid hitting the pedestrians and saving the passengers in the car. But there is a possibility the car would need to make a decision that would put someone in danger. In other words, the car would need to decide to save the pedestrians or the passengers. The programming of the car in these situations is crucial to a successful driver-less automobile.\n\nFinancial institutions have long used artificial neural network systems to detect charges or claims outside of the norm, flagging these for human investigation. The use of AI in banking can be traced back to 1987 when Security Pacific National Bank in US set-up a Fraud Prevention Task force to counter the unauthorised use of debit cards. Programs like Kasisto and Moneystream are using AI in financial services.\n\nBanks use artificial intelligence systems today to organize operations, maintain book-keeping, invest in stocks, and manage properties. AI can react to changes overnight or when business is not taking place. In August 2001, robots beat humans in a simulated financial trading competition. AI has also reduced fraud and financial crimes by monitoring behavioral patterns of users for any abnormal changes or anomalies.\n\nThe use of AI machines in the market in applications such as online trading and decision making has changed major economic theories. For example, AI based buying and selling platforms have changed the law of supply and demand in that it is now possible to easily estimate individualized demand and supply curves and thus individualized pricing. Furthermore, AI machines reduce information asymmetry in the market and thus making markets more efficient while reducing the volume of trades. Furthermore, AI in the markets limits the consequences of behavior in the markets again making markets more efficient. Other theories where AI has had impact include in rational choice, rational expectations, game theory, Lewis turning point, portfolio optimization and counterfactual thinking.\n\nIn video games, artificial intelligence is routinely used to generate dynamic purposeful behavior in non-player characters (NPCs). In addition, well-understood AI techniques are routinely used for pathfinding. Some researchers consider NPC AI in games to be a \"solved problem\" for most production tasks. Games with more atypical AI include the AI director of \"Left 4 Dead\" (2008) and the neuroevolutionary training of platoons in \"Supreme Commander 2\" (2010).\n\nWorldwide annual military spending on robotics rose from 5.1 billion USD in 2010 to 7.5 billion USD in 2015. Military drones capable of autonomous action are widely considered a useful asset. In 2017, Vladimir Putin stated that \"Whoever becomes the leader in (artificial intelligence) will become the ruler of the world\". Many artificial intelligence researchers seek to distance themselves from military applications of AI.\n\nFor financial statements audit, AI makes continuous audit possible. AI tools could analyze many sets of different information immediately. The potential benefit would be the overall audit risk will be reduced, the level of assurance will be increased and the time duration of audit will be reduced.\n\nIt is possible to use AI to predict or generalize the behavior of customers from their digital footprints in order to target them with personalized promotions or build customer personas automatically . A documented case reports that online gambling companies were using AI to improve customer targeting.\n\nMoreover, the application of Personality computing AI models can help reducing the cost of advertising campaigns by adding psychological targeting to more traditional sociodemographic or behavioral targeting.\n\nArtificial Intelligence has inspired numerous creative applications including its usage to produce visual art. The exhibition \"Thinking Machines: Art and Design in the Computer Age, 1959–1989\" at MoMA provides a good overview of the historical applications of AI for art, architecture, and design. Recent exhibitions showcasing the usage of AI to produce art include the Google-sponsored benefit and auction at the Gray Area Foundation in San Francisco, where artists experimented with the deepdream algorithm and the exhibition \"Unhuman: Art in the Age of AI,\" which took place in Los Angeles and Frankfurt in the fall of 2017. In the spring of 2018, the Association of Computing Machinery dedicated a special magazine issue to the subject of computers and art highlighting the role of machine learning in the arts.\n\nThere are three philosophical questions related to AI:\n\nCan a machine be intelligent? Can it \"think\"?\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWidespread use of artificial intelligence could have unintended consequences that are dangerous or undesirable. Scientists from the Future of Life Institute, among others, described some short-term research goals to see how AI influences the economy, the laws and ethics that are involved with AI and how to minimize AI security risks. In the long-term, the scientists have proposed to continue optimizing function while minimizing possible security risks that come along with new technologies.\n\nPhysicist Stephen Hawking, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, and SpaceX founder Elon Musk have expressed concerns about the possibility that AI could evolve to the point that humans could not control it, with Hawking theorizing that this could \"spell the end of the human race\".\n\nIn his book \"\", Nick Bostrom provides an argument that artificial intelligence will pose a threat to mankind. He argues that sufficiently intelligent AI, if it chooses actions based on achieving some goal, will exhibit convergent behavior such as acquiring resources or protecting itself from being shut down. If this AI's goals do not reflect humanity's—one example is an AI told to compute as many digits of pi as possible—it might harm humanity in order to acquire more resources or prevent itself from being shut down, ultimately to better achieve its goal.\n\nConcern over risk from artificial intelligence has led to some high-profile donations and investments. A group of prominent tech titans including Peter Thiel, Amazon Web Services and Musk have committed $1billion to OpenAI, a nonprofit company aimed at championing responsible AI development. The opinion of experts within the field of artificial intelligence is mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superhumanly-capable AI. In January 2015, Elon Musk donated ten million dollars to the Future of Life Institute to fund research on understanding AI decision making. The goal of the institute is to \"grow wisdom with which we manage\" the growing power of technology. Musk also funds companies developing artificial intelligence such as Google DeepMind and Vicarious to \"just keep an eye on what's going on with artificial intelligence. I think there is potentially a dangerous outcome there.\"\n\nFor this danger to be realized, the hypothetical AI would have to overpower or out-think all of humanity, which a minority of experts argue is a possibility far enough in the future to not be worth researching. Other counterarguments revolve around humans being either intrinsically or convergently valuable from the perspective of an artificial intelligence.\n\nJoseph Weizenbaum wrote that AI applications cannot, by definition, successfully simulate genuine human empathy and that the use of AI technology in fields such as customer service or psychotherapy was deeply misguided. Weizenbaum was also bothered that AI researchers (and some philosophers) were willing to view the human mind as nothing more than a computer program (a position is now known as computationalism). To Weizenbaum these points suggest that AI research devalues human life.\n\nThe relationship between automation and employment is complicated. While automation eliminates old jobs, it also creates new jobs through micro-economic and macro-economic effects. Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence; \"The Economist\" states that \"the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution\" is \"worth taking seriously\". Subjective estimates of the risk vary widely; for example, Michael Osborne and Carl Benedikt Frey estimate 47% of U.S. jobs are at \"high risk\" of potential automation, while an OECD report classifies only 9% of U.S. jobs as \"high risk\". Jobs at extreme risk range from paralegals to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. Author Martin Ford and others go further and argue that a large number of jobs are routine, repetitive and (to an AI) predictable; Ford warns that these jobs may be automated in the next couple of decades, and that many of the new jobs may not be \"accessible to people with average capability\", even with retraining. Economists point out that in the past technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but acknowledge that \"we're in uncharted territory\" with AI.\n\nCurrently, 50+ countries are researching battlefield robots, including the United States, China, Russia, and the United Kingdom. Many people concerned about risk from superintelligent AI also want to limit the use of artificial soldiers and drones.\n\nMachines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to prevent harm and minimize the risks; they may have the ability to use ethical reasoning to better choose their actions in the world. Research in this area includes machine ethics, artificial moral agents, and friendly AI.\n\nWendell Wallach introduced the concept of artificial moral agents (AMA) in his book \"Moral Machines\" For Wallach, AMAs have become a part of the research landscape of artificial intelligence as guided by its two central questions which he identifies as \"Does Humanity Want Computers Making Moral Decisions\" and \"Can (Ro)bots Really Be Moral\". For Wallach the question is not centered on the issue of \"whether\" machines can demonstrate the equivalent of moral behavior in contrast to the \"constraints\" which society may place on the development of AMAs.\n\nThe field of machine ethics is concerned with giving machines ethical principles, or a procedure for discovering a way to resolve the ethical dilemmas they might encounter, enabling them to function in an ethically responsible manner through their own ethical decision making. The field was delineated in the AAAI Fall 2005 Symposium on Machine Ethics: \"Past research concerning the relationship between technology and ethics has largely focused on responsible and irresponsible use of technology by human beings, with a few people being interested in how human beings ought to treat machines. In all cases, only human beings have engaged in ethical reasoning. The time has come for adding an ethical dimension to at least some machines. Recognition of the ethical ramifications of behavior involving machines, as well as recent and potential developments in machine autonomy, necessitate this. In contrast to computer hacking, software property issues, privacy issues and other topics normally ascribed to computer ethics, machine ethics is concerned with the behavior of machines towards human users and other machines. Research in machine ethics is key to alleviating concerns with autonomous systems—it could be argued that the notion of autonomous machines without such a dimension is at the root of all fear concerning machine intelligence. Further, investigation of machine ethics could enable the discovery of problems with current ethical theories, advancing our thinking about Ethics.\" Machine ethics is sometimes referred to as machine morality, computational ethics or computational morality. A variety of perspectives of this nascent field can be found in the collected edition \"Machine Ethics\" that stems from the AAAI Fall 2005 Symposium on Machine Ethics.\n\nPolitical scientist Charles T. Rubin believes that AI can be neither designed nor guaranteed to be benevolent. He argues that \"any sufficiently advanced benevolence may be indistinguishable from malevolence.\" Humans should not assume machines or robots would treat us favorably because there is no \"a priori\" reason to believe that they would be sympathetic to our system of morality, which has evolved along with our particular biology (which AIs would not share). Hyper-intelligent software may not necessarily decide to support the continued existence of humanity and would be extremely difficult to stop. This topic has also recently begun to be discussed in academic publications as a real source of risks to civilization, humans, and planet Earth.\n\nOne proposal to deal with this is to ensure that the first generally intelligent AI is 'Friendly AI', and will then be able to control subsequently developed AIs. Some question whether this kind of check could really remain in place.\n\nLeading AI researcher Rodney Brooks writes, \"I think it is a mistake to be worrying about us developing malevolent AI anytime in the next few hundred years. I think the worry stems from a fundamental error in not distinguishing the difference between the very real recent advances in a particular aspect of AI, and the enormity and complexity of building sentient volitional intelligence.\"\n\nIf an AI system replicates all key aspects of human intelligence, will that system also be sentient—will it have a mind which has conscious experiences? This question is closely related to the philosophical problem as to the nature of human consciousness, generally referred to as the hard problem of consciousness.\n\nDavid Chalmers identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the \"hard\" and \"easy\" problems of consciousness. The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this \"feels\" or why it should feel like anything at all. Human information processing is easy to explain, however human subjective experience is difficult to explain.\n\nFor example, consider what happens when a person is shown a color swatch and identifies it, saying \"it's red\". The easy problem only requires understanding the machinery in the brain that makes it possible for a person to know that the color swatch is red. The hard problem is that people also know something else—they also know \"what red looks like\". (Consider that a person born blind can know that something is red without knowing what red looks like.) Everyone knows subjective experience exists, because they do it every day (e.g., all sighted people know what red looks like). The hard problem is explaining how the brain creates it, why it exists, and how it is different than knowledge and other aspects of the brain.\n\nComputationalism is the position in the philosophy of mind that the human mind or the human brain (or both) is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the mind-body problem. This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers Jerry Fodor and Hilary Putnam.\n\nThe philosophical position that John Searle has named \"strong AI\" states: \"The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds.\" Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which asks us to look \"inside\" the computer and try to find where the \"mind\" might be.\n\nIf a machine can be created that has intelligence, could it also \"feel\"? If it can feel, does it have the same rights as a human? This issue, now known as \"robot rights\", is currently being considered by, for example, California's Institute for the Future, although many critics believe that the discussion is premature. Some critics of transhumanism argue that any hypothetical robot rights would lie on a spectrum with animal rights and human rights. The subject is profoundly discussed in the 2010 documentary film \"Plug & Pray\".\n\nAre there limits to how intelligent machines—or human-machine hybrids—can be? A superintelligence, hyperintelligence, or superhuman intelligence is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. ‘’Superintelligence’’ may also refer to the form or degree of intelligence possessed by such an agent.\n\nIf research into Strong AI produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to reprogram and improve itself. The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to recursive self-improvement. The new intelligence could thus increase exponentially and dramatically surpass humans. Science fiction writer Vernor Vinge named this scenario \"singularity\". Technological singularity is when accelerating progress in technologies will cause a runaway effect wherein artificial intelligence will exceed human intellectual capacity and control, thus radically changing or even ending civilization. Because the capabilities of such an intelligence may be impossible to comprehend, the technological singularity is an occurrence beyond which events are unpredictable or even unfathomable.\n\nRay Kurzweil has used Moore's law (which describes the relentless exponential improvement in digital technology) to calculate that desktop computers will have the same processing power as human brains by the year 2029, and predicts that the singularity will occur in 2045.\n\nRobot designer Hans Moravec, cyberneticist Kevin Warwick and inventor Ray Kurzweil have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into cyborgs that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, which has roots in Aldous Huxley and Robert Ettinger.\n\nEdward Fredkin argues that \"artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution\", an idea first proposed by Samuel Butler's \"Darwin among the Machines\" (1863), and expanded upon by George Dyson in his book of the same name in 1998.\n\nThought-capable artificial beings appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,\nand have been a persistent theme in science fiction.\n\nA common trope in these works began with Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\", where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as and \"\" (both 1968), with HAL 9000, the murderous computer in charge of the \"Discovery One\" spaceship, as well as \"The Terminator\" (1984) and \"The Matrix\" (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" (1951) and Bishop from \"Aliens\" (1986) are less prominent in popular culture.\n\nIsaac Asimov introduce the Three Laws of Robotics in many books and stories, most notably the \"Multivac\" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during layman discussions of machine ethics; while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity.\n\nTranshumanism (the merging of humans and machines) is explored in the manga \"Ghost in the Shell\" and the science-fiction series \"Dune\". In the 1980s, artist Hajime Sorayama's Sexy Robots series were painted and published in Japan depicting the actual organic human form with lifelike muscular metallic skins and later \"the Gynoids\" book followed that was used by or influenced movie makers including George Lucas and other creatives. Sorayama never considered these organic robots to be real part of nature but always unnatural product of the human mind, a fantasy existing in the mind even when realized in actual form.\n\nSeveral works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental of question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have the ability to feel, and thus to suffer. This appears in Karel Čapek's \"R.U.R.\", the films \"A.I. Artificial Intelligence\" and \"Ex Machina\", as well as the novel \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\", by Philip K. Dick. Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence.\n\n"}
{"id": "9385828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9385828", "title": "B movies since the 1980s", "text": "B movies since the 1980s\n\nCinematic exhibition of the B movie, defined as a relatively low-cost genre film, has declined substantially from the early 1980s to the present. Spurred by the historic success of several big-budget movies with B-style themes beginning in the mid-1970s, the major Hollywood studios moved progressively into the production of A-grade films in genres that had long been low-budget territory. With the majors also adopting exploitation-derived methods of booking and marketing, B movies began to be squeezed out of the commercial arena. The advent of digital cinema in the new millennium appeared to open up new opportunities for the distribution of inexpensive genre movies.\n\nMost of the B-movie production houses founded during the exploitation era collapsed or were subsumed by larger companies as the field's financial situation changed in the early 1980s. Even a comparatively cheap, efficiently made genre picture intended for theatrical release began to cost millions of dollars, as the major movie studios steadily moved into the production of expensive genre movies, raising audience expectations for spectacular action sequences and realistic special effects. Intimations of the trend were evident as early as \"Airport\" (1969) and especially in the mega-schlock of \"The Poseidon Adventure\" (1972), \"Earthquake\" (1973), and \"The Towering Inferno\" (1974). Their disaster plots and dialogue were B-grade at best; from an industry perspective, however, these were pictures firmly rooted in the tradition of star-stuffed extravaganzas like \"The Ten Commandments\" (1956) and \"Around the World in Eighty Days\" (1956). \"The Exorcist\" (1973) and, though not effects-driven, George Lucas's \"American Graffiti\" (1973) were the first serious steps in Hollywood's transformation into an industry built around high-budget B-themed movies. But the tidal shift in the majors' focus owed largely to the enormous success of three films: Steven Spielberg's creature feature \"Jaws\" (1975) and Lucas's space opera \"Star Wars\" (1977) had each, in turn, become the highest-grossing film in motion picture history. \"Superman\", released in December 1978, had proved that a studio could spend $55 million on a movie about a children's comic book character and make a very handsome profit. Not an all-time record-breaker like \"Jaws\" and \"Star Wars\", it was merely the biggest box-office hit of 1979. Blockbuster fantasy spectacles like the original, 1933 \"King Kong\" had once been exceptional; in the new Hollywood, increasingly under the sway of multi-industrial conglomerates, they would rule. \n\nIt had taken a decade and half, from 1961 to 1976, for the production cost of the average Hollywood feature to double from $2 million to $4 million—actually a decline if adjusted for inflation. In just four years it more than doubled again, hitting $8.5 million in 1980 (a constant-dollar increase of about 25 percent). Even as the U.S. inflation rate eased, the average expense of moviemaking would continue to soar. With the majors now routinely saturation booking in over a thousand theaters, it was becoming increasingly difficult for smaller outfits to secure the exhibition commitments needed to turn a profit. Revival houses were now the almost-exclusive preserve of the double feature. One of the first leading casualties of the new economic regime was venerable B studio Allied Artists, which declared bankruptcy in April 1979. In the late 1970s, American International Pictures (AIP) had moved into the production of relatively expensive comedies and genre films like the very successful \"Amityville Horror\" and the disastrous, $20 million \"Meteor\" in 1979. That same year, the studio was sold off to Filmways, a company with a history in TV production, and was dissolved as a moviemaking concern by the end of 1980. Capitalizing on the popularity of \"Hercules\", in 1960 Roger Corman had made \"Atlas\" for a total of $75,000. In 1982, Universal released a movie in the same tradition: fantasy plus muscles. The lead role was to be played by an Austrian-born actor with a great reputation as a bodybuilder but entirely unproven as a major film star. Adjusting for inflation, the cost of \"Atlas\" was about $400,000 in 1982 dollars. Production cost on \"Conan the Barbarian\" was an estimated $20 million. \"Hercules\" had opened in 600 theaters, an astonishing figure at the time. \"Conan\" opened in 1,395, making it one of more than twenty movies that year to open at over 900 theaters.\n\nDespite the mounting financial pressures, distribution obstacles, and overall risk, a substantial number of genre movies from small studios and independent filmmakers were still reaching theaters. In September 1980, Corman released his most expensive movie to date: \"Battle Beyond the Stars\", with screenplay by John Sayles and art direction by James Cameron, cost his New World Pictures a grand total of $2 million. By comparison, the \"Star Wars\" sequel \"The Empire Strikes Back\", which came out three-and-a-half months before the Corman epic, was originally budgeted at $18.5 million and wound up costing $33 million, triple the cost of \"Star Wars\" just three years before. Horror was the strongest low-budget genre of the time, particularly in the \"slasher\" mode as with \"The Slumber Party Massacre\" (1982), directed by Amy Holden-Jones and written by feminist author Rita Mae Brown. The film was produced for New World on a budget of $250,000. At the beginning of 1983, Corman sold New World; New Horizons, later Concorde–New Horizons, became his primary company. In 1984, New Horizons released a critically applauded movie set amid the punk scene written and directed by Penelope Spheeris. Vincent Canby's admiring review ends with a definitive compliment: \"\"Suburbia\" is a good genre film.\"\n\nWriter-director Larry Cohen continued to twist genre conventions in pictures such as \"Q\" (aka \"Q: The Winged Serpent\"; 1982): \"the kind of movie that used to be indispensable to the market: an imaginative, popular, low-budget picture that makes the most of its limited resources, and in which people get on with the job instead of standing around talking about it.\" In 1981, New Line Cinema put out \"Polyester\", a John Waters movie with an estimated $300,000 budget and an old-school exploitation gimmick: Odorama. In October that year, a gore-filled yet stylish horror movie made for less than $400,000 was premiered at a theater in Detroit. The writer, director, and co–executive producer of \"The Book of the Dead\", Sam Raimi, was a week shy of his twenty-second birthday; star and co–executive producer Bruce Campbell was twenty-three. Retitled \"The Evil Dead\", it was picked up for distribution by New Line in 1983 and became a critical and commercial hit. Comparing it to \"Night of the Living Dead\", one reviewer said \"it achieves a similarly claustrophobic intensity on a microscopic budget. It's a shoestring \"tour de force\".\"\n\nOne of the most successful B-movie companies of the 1980s was a survivor from the heyday of the exploitation era, Troma Pictures, founded in 1974. Troma's most characteristic productions, including \"Class of Nuke 'Em High\" (1986), \"Redneck Zombies\" (1986), and \"Surf Nazis Must Die\" (1987), take exploitation for an absurdist spin. Troma also built on another B-studio tradition: re-releasing the often embarrassing early films of actors turning into major stars. In 1986, the company acquired and distributed two unreleased films, \"Sizzle Beach U.S.A.\" (shot in 1974) and \"Shadows Run Black\" (shot in 1981), capitalizing on performances by Kevin Costner, who had recently appeared in the popular \"Silverado\" (1985) and was set to headline \"The Untouchables\" (1987). Troma's best-known production is \"The Toxic Avenger\" (1985), whose hero, after plunging into a vat of toxic waste while attempting to escape a loathsome gang of tormentors, mutates into a hideous creature with enhanced physical strength and revenge on what's left of his mind. After the film's successful release, the character, affectionately known as Toxie, became the symbol of Troma and an icon of the 1980s B movie. One of the few successful B-studio startups of the decade was Rome-based Empire Pictures, whose first production, \"Ghoulies\", reached theaters in 1985. Despite other profitable ventures such as \"Re-Animator\" (1985), financial difficulties forced the company's American founder to sell it off in 1988.\n\nThe growth of the cable television industry in the 1980s helped support the low-budget film market, as many B movies quickly wound up as \"filler\" material for 24-hour cable channels or were made expressly for that purpose. The broadcast version of the midnight movie remained popular: the nationally syndicated \"Movie Macabre\" package starring Cassandra Peterson—aka Elvira, Mistress of the Dark—was essentially a brassier copy of \"The Vampira Show\", presenting mostly low-budget horror films interspersed with Elvira's satiric commentary and abundant display of cleavage. The video rental market was also becoming central to B-film economics: Empire's financial model, for instance, relied on seeing a profit not from theatrical rentals, but only later, at the video store. A number of Concorde–New Horizon releases appeared only briefly in theaters, or not at all.\n\nBy 1990, the cost of the average U.S. film had passed $25 million. Of the nine films released that year to gross more than $100 million at the U.S. box office, two would have been strictly B-movie material before the late 1970s: \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" and \"Dick Tracy\". Three more—the science-fiction thriller \"Total Recall\", the action-filled detective thriller \"Die Hard 2\", and the year's biggest hit, the slapstick kiddie comedy \"Home Alone\"—were also far closer to the traditional arena of the B's than to classic A-list subject matter. The growing popularity of home video and access to unedited movies on cable and satellite television along with real estate pressures were making survival more difficult for the sort of small- or non-chain theaters that were the primary home of independently produced genre films. Drive-in screens were rapidly disappearing from the American landscape: between 1987 and 1990, the number in operation fell from 2,507 to 910. \nSurviving B-movie operations adapted in different ways. Releases from Troma now frequently went straight to video. As if in farewell, the company brought a title to the big screen in 1991 that summed up much of the preceding three-and-a-half decades of B movies: \"Chopper Chicks in Zombietown\". Empire's founder, Charles Band, started a new production company, Full Moon, specifically to address the direct-to-video market. New Line, in its first decade, had been almost exclusively a distributor of low-budget independent and foreign genre pictures. With the smash success of exploitation veteran Wes Craven's original \"Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984), whose nearly $2 million cost it had directly backed, the company began moving steadily into higher-budget genre productions. In 1994, New Line was sold to the Turner Broadcasting System; it was soon being run as a midsized studio with a broad range of product alongside Warner Bros. within the Time Warner conglomerate. The following year, Showtime launched \"Roger Corman Presents\", a series of thirteen straight-to-cable movies produced by Concorde–New Horizons. A \"New York Times\" reviewer found that the initial installment qualified as \"vintage Corman...spiked with everything from bared female breasts to a mind-blowing quote from Thomas Mann's \"Death in Venice\".\"\n\nAt the same time as exhibition venues for B films vanished, the independent film movement was burgeoning; among the results were various crossovers between the low-budget genre movie and the \"sophisticated\" arthouse picture. Director Abel Ferrara, who built a reputation with violent B movies such as \"The Driller Killer\" (1979) and \"Ms. 45\" (1981), made two works in the early nineties that marry exploitation-worthy depictions of sex, drugs, and general sleaze to complex examinations of honor and redemption: \"King of New York\" (1990) was backed by a group of mostly small production companies and the cost of \"Bad Lieutenant\" (1992), $1.8 million, was financed totally independently. Ferrara followed these two movies with \"Body Snatchers\" (1993), a major-studio remake of the sci-fi classic and an acknowledgment of his debt to the B's of an earlier generation. Larry Fessenden's micro-budget monster movies, such as \"No Telling\" (1991) and \"Habit\" (1997), reframe classic genre subjects—Frankenstein and vampirism, respectively—to explore issues of contemporary relevance—animal experimentation, ecological destruction, drug addiction, and fin-de-siècle urban romance. Written and directed by Jeremy Horton, \"100 Proof\" (1997) is based on the true story of a killing spree that occurred in Lexington, Kentucky, a decade earlier. Praising its authentic depiction of the impoverished milieu in which it is set, critics variously described its style as evoking a home movie or a reality-style TV police series. Joe Leydon of \"Variety\", capturing the way it crossed the line between genre and art film, called it a \"diamond in the rough, or at least a shiny bit of jagged rhinestone.\"\n\nDavid Cronenberg, one of the leading B-movie auteurs of the , had stepped up in financial grade with \"Scanners\" (1980), a $3.5 million production that \"Time\" critic Richard Corliss associated with his earlier, low-budget films as well as George A. Romero's \"Dawn of the Dead\" (1978) and John Carpenter's \"The Fog\" (1980) as \"hip parables of contemporary moral malaise.\" Cronenberg's crowning achievement in that vein would come a decade and a half later: Like that of \"Scanners\" in 1980, the budget of \"Crash\", $10 million, wasn't comfortably A-grade by 1996, but it was hardly B-level either. The film's imagery was another matter: \"On its scandalizing surface, David Cronenberg's \"Crash\" suggests exploitation at its most disturbingly sick,\" is how Janet Maslin's \"New York Times\" review begins. The review ends with an explanation of the film's rating: \"\"Crash\" has the NC-17 rating (No one under 17 admitted) that it fully deserves. It includes frontal nudity, many sexual encounters and coolly grotesque situations linking sex and violence in graphic, sickening ways.\" Financed, like \"King of New York\", by a consortium of production companies, it was ultimately picked up for U.S. distribution by Fine Line Features. In more ways than one, this result resonated perfectly with the way the film scrambled definitions: Fine Line was a subsidiary of New Line, recently merged into the Time Warner empire—specifically, it was the old exploitation distributor's arthouse division.\n\nBy the turn of the millennium, the average production cost of an American feature had already spent three years above the $50 million mark. In 2005, the top ten movies at the U.S. box office included three adaptations of children's fantasy novels (including one extending and , as well as a remake of a 1971 film), a child-targeted cartoon, a comic book adaptation, a , a sci-fi remake, and a \"King Kong\" remake. It was a slow year for Corman: he produced just one movie, which had no American theatrical release, true of most of the pictures he had been involved in recently. \"Bloodfist 2050\", directed by long-time B filmmaker and Corman collaborator Cirio H. Santiago, went straight to DVD in the United States. Ultrawide openings at many thousands of theaters were becoming the norm. In May 2007 alone, three fantasy blockbusters—\"\" (third in a series based on an amusement-park ride), \"Spider-Man 3\" (third in a series based on a superhero comic book), and \"Shrek the Third\" (third in a series of \"family\" cartoons)—each opened on over 10,000 screens. As big-budget Hollywood movies further usurped the genre territories that were traditionally the domain of the B's, the ongoing viability of the familiar brand of B movie was in grave doubt. Critic A. O. Scott of the \"New York Times\" warned of the impending \"extinction\" of\n\nthe cheesy, campy, guilty pleasures that used to bubble up with some regularity out of the B-picture ooze of cut-rate genre entertainment. Those cherished bad movies—full of jerry-built effects, abominable acting, ludicrous story lines—once flickered with zesty crudity in drive-ins and grind houses across the land. B-picture genres—science fiction and comic-book fantasy in particular, but also kiddie cartoons and horror pictures—now dominate the A-list, commanding the largest budgets and the most attention from the market-research and quality-control departments of the companies that manufacture them... [F]or the most part, the schlock of the past has evolved into star-driven, heavily publicized, expensive mediocrities...\nOn the other hand, recent industry trends suggest the reemergence of something that looks very like the traditional A-B split in major studio production, though with fewer \"programmers\" bridging the gap. According to a 2006 report by industry analyst Alfonso Marone, \"The average budget for a Hollywood movie is currently around $60m, rising to $100m when the cost of marketing for domestic launch (USA only) is factored into the equation. However, we are now witnessing a polarisation of film budgets into two tiers: large productions ($120–150m) and niche features ($5–20m). The rationale is that the likelihood of success is maximised by coupling ultra-large budget and highly marketable features (e.g., \"\"), with multiple low-cost bets (e.g., \"Little Miss Sunshine\"). Fewer $30–70m releases are expected.\"\n\n\"Little Miss Sunshine\" was produced by Fox Searchlight, the major studio's pseudo-indie subsidiary, for $8 million. With its quirky, \"indie\"-style comedy, the film hardly meets any conventional definition of a B movie beyond its relatively small budget, but the sorts of movies embraced by the term have shifted drastically before. Classic film noir's combination of visual beauty and verbal wit, for instance, was hardly common coin in exploitation-era B filmmaking. Further expanding the field, Fox launched a new subsidiary in 2006, Fox Atomic, to concentrate on teen-oriented genre films (horror in particular, at first, then increasingly comedy, as well). The genre focus was similar to that of Sony's Screen Gems division and the Weinsteins' Dimension Films, but the economic model was deliberately low-rent, at least by major studio standards. According to a \"Variety\" report, \"Fox Atomic is staying at or below the $10 million mark for many of its movies. It's also encouraging filmmakers to shoot digitally—a cheaper process that results in a grittier, teen-friendly look. And forget about stars. Of Atomic's nine announced films, not one has a big-name.\" In sum, this was an updated version of a Golden Age big studio B unit targeting a market very similar to the one Samuel Z. Arkoff and James H. Nicholson's AIP helped define in the 1950s. Despite its low budgets and consequently low benchmarks for profitability, Fox Atomic's output was seen as unsuccessful by its parent company, which shut it down in 2009.\n\nIn a development hinted at by the \"Variety\" quotation above, technological advances are greatly facilitating the production of truly low-budget motion pictures. Although there have always been economical means with which to shoot movies, including Super 8 and 16 mm film, as well as video cameras recording onto analog videotape, these mediums could hardly rival the image quality of 35 mm film. The development and widespread usage of digital cameras and postproduction methods allow even low-budget filmmakers to produce films with excellent (and not necessarily \"grittier\") image quality and precise editing effects—though technical excellence is no guarantee of aesthetic value or even cinematographic competence. As Marone observes, \"the equipment budget (camera, support) required for shooting digital is approximately 1/10 that for film, significantly lowering the production budget for independent features.\" Comparing circumstances in 2006 to those just a couple of years earlier, he argues that the \"quality of digital filmmaking has improved dramatically.\"\n\nIndependent filmmakers, whether working in a genre or arthouse mode, continue to find it difficult to gain access to distribution channels, though so-called digital end-to-end methods of distribution offer new opportunities. The so-called day-and-date strategy, in a which a film is released simultaneously in theaters as well as DVD and/or cable, may offer a way for the true low-budget B movie to regain some of the audience it has lost. In a similar fashion, the popularity of Internet sites such as YouTube have opened up entirely new avenues for the presentation of motion pictures made on a shoestring. Abel Ferrara, envisioning his first digital film, says, \"I want to do it on the Internet...and put it out in 10-minute increments. I know that watching films on computer is the future—it's a direct connection to the audience.\"\n\nMany of these developments have come together to create a boom in a relatively new form of low-budget genre picture. The fan film, typically an unauthorized production set in the imaginary universe of a popular genre movie or TV series, may be thought of as the most widespread present incarnation of the B movie. \"Arguably the first fan film was \"Hardware Wars\", a short spoof from 1977 depicting toasters and egg-beaters fighting in space,\" according to journalist Curt Holman. \"In the first decade of the new millenni[um], fan films have grown exponentially in quantity and improved significantly in quality and ambition...[t]hanks to digital cameras, affordable editing software and online distribution.\" In 2002, Lucasfilm created a yearly award ceremony for noncommercial fan films, arranging to screen them online via AtomFilms (purchased in 2006 by MTV Networks). \"Star Wars: Revelations\" (2005), a 40-minute drama directed by Shane Felux for a production cost of $20,000, has apparently been downloaded by millions. Similar projects are designed as \"episodes\" set in the TV-based \"Star Trek\" and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" universes. A parallel development in fan culture has been inspired in part by the direct-to-video market, whose products garner little notice and less respect in mainstream culture. According to scholar Linda Ruth Williams, the \"new B-movie culture runs on the convoluted equation that cheap means bad which means good. Such products garner far more respect from fans because they manage to press the same buttons on one million dollars (or less) rather than one hundred million (or more).\"\n\nSince 2006, The Asylum—a production company founded in 1997—has specialized in low-budget pictures also inspired by the big-budget films that have largely usurped the B movie's place in the theatrical market. The company makes what one critic dubbed \"mockbusters\", straight-to-video knockoffs of major studio action pictures: \"Transformers\", for instance, is transformed into The Asylum's \"Transmorphers\". Another commercial relative of the fan film is the overt B-movie homage. Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez's \"Grindhouse\" (2007) nods to a wide variety of exploitation styles popular from the late 1960s through the early 1980s. Criticizing the film, notwithstanding its \"posture of cool,\" as yet another \"blockbuster B-movie,\" Adario Strange places it in historical context: \"Despite themselves, Tarantino and Rodriguez have the right idea. As the tools for filmmaking have become cheaper and more malleable, now is the time for rough, ugly, experimental films to shine again as they did in the '70s. The problem for these directors is that they are just too rich, too well-connected and too self-aware to produce films that are truly spit and chewing gum, bleeding-edge like Eric Nicholas' \"Alone With Her\", Vincent Gallo's \"The Brown Bunny\" or Shane Carruth's \"Primer\"—films most Americans will never see.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19824547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19824547", "title": "Black Inches", "text": "Black Inches\n\nBlack Inches () was a US-based gay pornographic magazine featuring African-American men. Published by Mavety Media alongside magazines such as \"Mandate\", it was established in 1993 and folded in 2009.\n\nThe photos appearing in the magazine had various sources; some are obtained from companies that produce gay pornographic films (although most layouts depict individual men, rather than simulated \"action\" scenes). Photographers whose work appeared in \"Black Inches\" include Anneli Adolfsson, Ken Kavanagh, Brian Lantelme, and Abednego (formerly associated with Mansurf.com). The magazine also carried film reviews, erotic stories, cartoons, and advertisements.\n\nD. J. Murphy's \"Sons Like Me\" starts with a reference to \"Black Inches\" in its first lines:\n\"What the hell is this, Travis?\" My mom yelled as she held the \"Black Inches\" porno magazine in her hand.\n\nOther novels that mention the magazine include John Weir's \"What I Did Wrong\" and Jim Norton's \"Happy Ending\".\n\n\"Black Inches\" featured every major gay black porn star in photo shoots and interviews, from Bobby Blake and Tyson Cane to Tiger Tyson, J. C. Carter, and T-Malone. Bobby Blake writes of his relationship with the magazine, \"\"Black Inches\" was always very supportive of me. They reviewed every film I made, did photo-shoots, interviewed me, and gave me my own column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38911962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38911962", "title": "Brandenburg stone", "text": "Brandenburg stone\n\nThe Brandenburg stone is an inscribed stone slab found in Brandenburg, Kentucky, United States in 1912, on the farm of Craig Crecelius. The stone contains a strip of linear markings that resemble letters of a script. Crecelius exhibited the stone several times, but was unable to find anyone who could identify the markings.\n\nJon Whitfield, who acquired the stone in 1965, claims that they are Coelbren, a Welsh-language alphabet. Other writers have elaborated on these claims, arguing that this is evidence of pre-Columbian contact between the legendary Welsh prince Madoc and Native Americans. The consensus of Welsh scholars is that \"Coelbren\" is a fake script invented in the late eighteenth century by Iolo Morganwg in his book \"Barddas\".\n\nIn 1912, farmer Craig Crecelius found the stone artifact in a field near the Ohio River in Brandenburg, Kentucky. The oolite stone measures long by wide and varies in thickness from . For more than 50 years, Crecelius displayed the stone at local fairs. At some point, the stone was shattered into three pieces.\n\nIn 1965, Crecelius abandoned his pursuit of the artifact's origin and transferred ownership to Jon Whitfield. Eight years later, archaeologists examined the stone and concluded that its markings were actually scratches resulting from a natural process. The stone was stored at the Brandenburg library until 1995 when it was moved to the Falls of the Ohio Interpretive Center in Clarksville, Indiana.\n\nIn 1999, the artifact was moved to the Falls of the Ohio State Park Interpretive Center for a year, and then to the Charlestown, Indiana public library. In January 2012 the artifact was returned to the Meade county library.\n\nWhitfield sought evidence that the markings were Welsh in origin. In 1998, the stone was examined by authors Baram Blackett and Alan Wilson, who asserted that the inscription was medieval Welsh. Blackett and Wilson have also claimed to have found the grave of King Arthur and the Ark of the Covenant. They translated the inscriptions into English from Coelbren, the script described by Iolo Morganwg, and which modern scholars believe to have been invented by him.\n\nThe stone's inscription was translated to read: \"Toward strength (to promote unity), divide the land we are spread over, purely (or justly) between offspring in wisdom.\" This was interpreted to mean that it was a boundary marker. Jefferson Community College writer Lee Pennington has endorsed claims of the artifact's ancient Welsh origin. The claims have been widely circulated.\n\nMore recently, the artifact has been a subject of several books as well an episode of the H2 documentary \"America Unearthed\". Author Jason Colavito has argued against the stone's authenticity, asserting that it was forged in the 19th or early 20th century when several books promoting \"Coelbren\" were widely circulated in America.\n"}
{"id": "593873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593873", "title": "Byron Bay, New South Wales", "text": "Byron Bay, New South Wales\n\nByron Bay is a beachside town located in the far-northeastern corner of the state of New South Wales, Australia. It is located north of Sydney and south of Brisbane. Cape Byron, a headland adjacent to the town, is the easternmost point of mainland Australia. At the 2016 census, the town had a permanent population of 9,246. The town is in turn the nucleus of Byron Shire, which had 31,556 residents.\n\nThe local Arakwal Aboriginal people's name for the area is \"Cavvanbah\", meaning \"meeting place\". Lieutenant James Cook named Cape Byron after Naval officer John Byron, circumnavigator of the world and grandfather of the poet Lord Byron.\n\nThe history of Europeans in Byron Bay began in 1770, when Lieutenant James Cook found a safe anchorage and named Cape Byron after a fellow sailor John Byron.\n\nThe first industry in Byron was cedar logging from the Australian red cedar (\"Toona ciliata\"). The timber industry is the origin of the word \"shoot\" in many local names – Possum Shoot, Coopers Shoot and Skinners Shoot – where the timber-cutters would \"shoot\" the logs down the hills to be dragged to waiting ships. Timber getting became insignificant after World War I and many former timber workers became farmers.\n\nGold mining of the beaches was the next industry to occur. Up to 20 mining leases set up on Tallow Beach to extract gold from the black sands around the 1870s.\n\nByron Bay has a history of primary industrial production (dairy factory, abattoirs, fishing, and whaling until 1963) and was a significant, but hazardous, sea port. The poet Brunton Stephens spoke of cattle grazing on the \"mossy plains\" of Cape Byron in a poem he penned in 1876.\n\nThe first jetty was built in 1886, and the railway was connected in 1894, and Cavvanbah became Byron Bay in 1894. Dairy farmers cleared more land and settled the area. In 1895, the Norco Co-operative was formed to provide cold storage and manage the dairy industry. The introduction of paspalum improved production, and Byron Bay exported butter to the world. The Norco factory was the biggest in the southern hemisphere, expanding from dairy to bacon and other processed meat.\n\nThe lighthouse was built in 1901 at the most easterly point on the Australian mainland. In 1930, the first meatworks opened. The smell from the meat and dairy works was, by all accounts, appalling, and the annual slaughter of migrating whales in the 1950s and 1960s made matters worse. Sand mining for monazite (zircon, uranium and thorium) between the World Wars damaged the environment further, and one by one, all these industries declined.\n\nLongboard surfers arrived in the 1960s and used natural breaks at The Pass, Watego's, and Cosy Corner. This was the beginning of Byron Bay as a travellers' destination, and by 1973, when the Aquarius Festival was held in nearby Nimbin, its reputation as a hippy, happy, alternative town was established, although tourism facilities remained minimal. From the 1980s, tourism began to develop in earnest, with the cash-poor surfers and hippies supplemented, and to a degree supplanted, by cashed-up conspicuous consumers who in turn stimulated the development of retail precincts and accommodation more tuned to their needs. Today, Byron Bay is one of the most up-market residential areas on the Australian east coast with the growth in multi-million dollar mansions now pushing the median value of house sales up beyond AU$1.5 million in 2017, over a 100% increase since 2013, based on 2018 data from realestate.com.au. At the same time, the town has not lost its attraction to a diverse range of visitors including surfers, backpackers and general tourists interested in the natural attractions of the area, and also supports a healthy cross section of creative persons including artists, craftspersons and musicians, while its more recent hippy/new age past is reflected to a degree in a prevalence of alternative \"new-age\" shops, \"spiritual\" services such as meditation and yoga classes, and holistic healing/\"wellness\" retreats. As at 2018, the town is cited as having around 5,000 permanent residents, while being visited by over 1.5 million tourists each year.\n\nA number of shipwrecks litter the bay and surrounding areas.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 9,246 people in Byron Bay.\n\nByron Bay is part of the erosion caldera of an ancient shield volcano, the Tweed Volcano, which had erupted 23 million years ago. The volcano formed as a result of the Indo-Australian Plate moving over the East Australia hotspot.\n\nByron Bay has a humid subtropical climate (\"Cfa\" in the Köppen climate classification) with warm summers and mild winters. Winters have daily maximums usually reaching 19.4 °C and a minimum of 12 °C. Summer can be hot, with a daily average of 27 °C. Summer evenings can be wet, cooling the day down.\n\nThe town has several beaches which are popular for surfing. It is a resort popular with both domestic and international tourists, including backpackers, who travel along the Australian coast; the scenery also attracts skydivers. The area is also noted for its wildlife, with the whale watching industry a significant contributor to the local economy.\n\nAn oceanway runs from the centre of town to the Cape Byron lighthouse. This allows visitors to walk and cycle to the lighthouse.\n\nTemperate and tropical waters merge at Byron Bay, making it a popular area for scuba diving and snorkelling. Most diving is done at Julian Rocks which is part of the recently established Cape Byron Marine Park and only a few minutes boat ride from Main Beach.\n\nByron Bay also lies close to subtropical rainforests, and areas such as the Nightcap National Park with the Minyon Falls are all within easy reach of the town.\n\nByron Bay is now also a popular destination for Schoolies week during late November and early December.\n\nByron Bay has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\n\nFestivals held in Byron Bay include the East Coast Blues & Roots Music Festival at Easter, Falls Festival NYE and Splendour in the Grass, the Byron Bay International Fashion Festival on 29 April each year, the Byron Bay Writers Festival, the Byron Bay Film Festival, Byron Bay Surf Festival, Byron Spirit Festival and the Byron Underwater Festival. The Byron Bay Triathlon is held on the second Saturday in May every year. 1,300 competitors from many different countries enter this Olympic Distance event. The vibrant musical community has produced internationally renowned bands such as Blue King Brown, Parkway Drive and 50 Lions.\n\nByron Bay has a number of regular markets including a weekly farmers' market at the Butler Street Reserve every Thursday with over 70 local farmers selling fresh produce. There is also a Byron Community Market held on the same site on the first Sunday of each month and the Artisan Market held on Saturday evenings at Railway Park from October to Easter. There are three annual specialist Beachside Markets held in January, Easter and September.\n\nA bus station in Jonson Street is serviced by Greyhound Australia, NSW TrainLink and Premier Motor Services coach services from Sydney and Brisbane.\n\nThe Byron Bay Train service will operate as a shuttle between Byron Bay station in the Byron township and North Beach station. The privately run service operates on a 3 km section of the disused Murwillimbah line. It is expected to open by Christmas 2017.\n\nByron Bay railway station was a stop on the Casino to Murwillumbah railway line until 2004. It was served by trains from Sydney and for various periods also by services originating at Casino that connected with expresses running between Sydney and South Brisbane. A 3.4 km section of the Murwillumbah railway line is to be rehabilitated in 2016 for a two car self-propelled diesel train planned to run from the town centre to the Elements of Byron resort and nearby attractions.\n\nAn earlier local train service, known as the Byron Bay Tram conveyed passengers from about 1928 until about 1954 between the railway station and the \"new jetty\" where connections were made with passenger carrying ships of the North Coast Steam Navigation Company. Motive power was a Simplex petrol locomotive, locally known as the \"Green Frog\", and the passenger vehicles comprised former Newcastle B2 class steam tram trailer 74B and former Sydney C class electric tram C37. After the trams stopped running both the cars went to a heritage tramway in Parramatta Park where 74B was destroyed by fire. The Simplex was built in Bedford England and went into service in 1923 shunting freight to and from the \"old\" jetty adjacent to the township and then to \"new\" jetty to the north when it was completed in 1928. Later it hauled whales from the jetty to the rendering down works, livestock to the meat works, mineral sands and meat wagons to the station for onward movement and regularly shunted Norco and other railway sidings and between these duties ran the passenger tramway until the coastal passenger shipping service stopped. The Simplex locomotive was retired in 1984 when the meat works closed and is now stored in a shed near the Kendall Street level crossing under the care of volunteers and the Byron Bay Council.\n\nByron Bay schools include Byron Bay Public School, Byron Bay High School, St Finbarr's Primary School, Byron Bay Community School, and Cape Byron Rudolf Steiner School. Among these are a number of early childhood facilities including Byron Bay Preschool and Periwinkle Preschool. In the fields of adult education there are Lexis English Centres (previously Global Village English Centres) and Byron Bay English Language School (BBELS) (both organisations providing English language tuition to international students), the Byron Region Community College, which is a registered training organisation and the SAE Institute Byron Bay which is a government-accredited, degree granting institution in the fields of audio engineering, digital film making, multimedia and animation.\n\nThe Byron Bay Surf Club is the longest-standing current sports club; it has been one of Australia's leading surf clubs and has been in continuous operation for more than 105 years. The rugby league club the Byron Bay Red Devils and the Australian rules football team Byron Magpies are well known. Byron Bay FC has won the Football Far North Coast Premier league three times, most recently in 2013. Other clubs include Byron Bay Golf Club, Byron Bay Cricket Club, Byron Bay Rugby Union Club, Byron Bay Gliding Club, Byron Bay Hang Gliding / Paragliding Club and the Byron Bay Bowling Club.\n\nThe Byron Bay Ocean Swim Classic is held every year.\n\nThe Byron Bay area has a number of newspapers:\n\nThe community radio station Bay FM broadcasts on 99.9 FM from within Byron Bay itself. Other local stations in the Byron area are:\n\nAll major television channels are available in Byron Bay and the wider Northern Rivers region:\n\n\n\nJohn Macgregor's 1986 novel \"Propinquity\" is partly set in Byron Bay and nearby Mullumbimby. The 2008/2009 ABC drama series \"East of Everything\", written by Deb Cox and Roger Monk, is set in the fictional town of Broken Bay which is based on a somewhat more run-down version of Byron Bay and its surrounds, with much of the filming taking place in and around Byron Bay including obviously recognisable landmarks such as the lighthouse and local beaches. The town also features in the 2016 open world racing video game, \"Forza Horizon 3\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58203303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58203303", "title": "Charro outfit", "text": "Charro outfit\n\nA charro or charra outfit or suit (\"traje de charro\", in Spanish) is a style of dress originating in Mexico and based on the clothing of a type of horseman, the charro. The style of clothing is often associated with mariachi and ranchera music performers, Mexican history, and celebration in festivals. The charro outfit is one that is associated with Mexico around the world. It is seen as a national emblem and a way to express personal pride in Mexican heritage. Charro outfits can be worn by men or women and have various levels of formality from work-wear to very expensive formal attire. The outfits consist of tight, decorated pants or a long skirt, short jackets, silk ties and are often worn with a wide-brimmed sombrero and other accessories as appropriate.\n\nA basic charro outfit worn by men consists of long, tight pants covered with decoration on the sides. The coat worn by both men and women is short and embroidered. These coats are also known as bolero jackets or \"chaquetillas\". Embroidery often depicts plant life, Aztec motifs or other themes. Traditionally, the embroidery was made of metallic thread or of pitea fiber. Charro outfits also consist of a wide-brimmed hat (sombrero) and silk tie. The charra outfit for women is similar, with women wearing a long, embroidered skirt, reaching the ankles, instead of the pants. The skirt is typically full enough to allow the woman to ride sidesaddle. Other aspects of the outfit may include a dress shirt, chaps, serape and pitea belt. The outfits are often colorful. The footwear is either a high-heeled boot, or a leather shoe.\n\nDifferent versions of the charro outfit are ranked based on a 1960 decision of the National Charro Federation. The least formal is known as the \"faena\" or work outfit. The next levels are \"media gala\", \"gala\", \"gran gala\" and \"etiqueta\" or formal. Mariachi performers wear a version of a charro outfit called the \"gala version\" and is most often black with silver, though modern mariachis wear more colorful outfits. The \"faena\" outfit is unadorned and typical of working charros.\n\nAn expensive charro outfit was reported in a 1942 edition of the \"Arizona Republic\" that was decorated in silver and \"evaluated at 10,000 pesos.\"In 1985, Victor Almaraz of California made a charro outfit consisting mainly of around 2,500 interlocking aluminum can pull tabs.\n\nThe charro outfit is seen as a representative symbol of Mexican culture. The outfit and other charro imagery is often incorporated in tourist advertisements and has become one of the \"most universally recognized emblem of Mexican identity around the world.\" The charro suit can be worn to express pride for Mexican heritage.\n\nThe origins of the charro outfit may be traced back to Salamanca of the 16th century. Spanish conquistadors brought this type of clothing with them to Mexico. When Spain colonized Mexico, the government initially made it illegal for indigenous Mexicans to ride horses without Spanish landowner permission. This was part of a system that created the \"casta\" or caste system in Mexico. When the Spanish allowed lower classes to ride, they were required to wear clothing that differentiated themselves from the Spanish, which led to a new fashion. The wide brim of the sombrero worn by charros protected them both from the sun and, due to the hard crown, from head injuries. The pants were worn tight to prevent snagging on brush, or chaparral and the coat worn short to provide better access to weaponry. Charros were considered part of the lower class in 17th century Mexico. The word \"charro\" was a derogatory term, originally meant to indicate their class status.\n\nAfter the Mexican Revolution, the imagery of the charro became important to Mexican culture. Mexican president, Porfirio Díaz, influenced mariachi performers to adopt the charro costume in the early 1900s. Mariachi musicians would accompany ranchera singers starting in the 1930s and in the 1940s ranchera musicians adopted the charro suit. \n\nSince 1934, September 14th is the national holiday known as the \"Día Nacional del Charro\" (National Day of the Charro) and is celebrated throughout Mexico to recognize the importance of horsemen and women to the culture of the country. Festivities include parades and shows of horsemanship, with riders in the iconic traditional costume. Spanish poet Manuel Benítez Carrasco, in describing the importance of the outfit stated, \"Vestirse de charro es como vestirse de México\" (Dressing as a charro is like dressing up as Mexico). The outfit was further popularized by actors who wore the charro suit in movies made during the Golden Age of Mexican Cinema.\n\nIn 2002, police officers in Mexico City began to wear charro outfits on patrol in the city's historic districts. The officers were meant to both \"entertain and protect the tourists that flood the Central Alameda area.\"\n\nCharro outfits were worn in the Golden Age of Mexican Cinema by actors such as Jorge Negrete, Pedro Infante, Emilio Fernández, Pedro Armendáriz and Luis Aguilar. The character, Gordo, in the eponymous comic strip by Gustavo Arriola, was portrayed dressed in charro outfits. The children's story, \"La Fiesta y el Mariachi\" by Marta Arroyo, describes traditional Mexican clothing, including the charro outfit. An annual celebration known as Charro Days in Brownsville, Texas incorporates the charro outfit among many participants and attendees. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52693788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52693788", "title": "Clock chime", "text": "Clock chime\n\nA clock chime is a melody or a set of melodies played at intervals upon a set of bells to mark the passage of time. It is also the name of such a set of bells when they are not part of a larger bell instrument such as a carillon. It is distinct from the striking of the hour by a single bell, although a clock that plays a clock chime normally plays the associated hour strike as well, while the hour bell may or may not have a part in the melodies. The bells used to play clock chimes are most commonly located in bell towers or grandfather clocks, but may be found in other places as well. A variety of melodies exist, many associated with a particular location or bell tower that originated them. \n\nThe practice of using bells to mark time dates at least to the time of the early Christian church, which used bells to mark the \"canonical hours\". An 8th-century Archbishop of York gave his priests instructions to sound church bells at certain times, and by the 10th century Saint Dunstan had written an extensive guide to bell-ringing to mark the canonical hours. Henry Beauchamp Walters' \"Bells of England\" features an entire chapter devoted to the regional variation in what bells were rung, how often, and what events they signaled throughout medieval England.\n\nIt is from these practices that clock chimes seem to have eventually emerged. Clock towers that chimed on the hour appeared in Italy by the 13th century, and they were common enough by the 15th that in 1463 the Englishman John Baret willed funds to the sexton of St. Mary's Church so that he would \"keep the clock, take heed to the chimes, [and] wind up the pegs and the plummets as often as need is\". \n\n"}
{"id": "22530892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22530892", "title": "Council for Art Education, Inc.", "text": "Council for Art Education, Inc.\n\nThe Council for Art Education, Inc. (CFAE) is an organization created by the Art & Creative Materials Institute, Inc. (ACMI) in 1984 to promote March as Youth Art Month, which was designed to promote art education. As of 2009, CFAE consisted of representatives of: ACMI, the National Art Education Association, \"The SHIP\" (a group of manufacturers of art materials), and the General Federation of Women's Clubs. The organization sponsors an annual competition called \"School Flag Across the U.S...Flying High\", where students are encouraged to design their own flags, and the winning flag is flown in Washington, D.C. throughout Youth Art Month. CFAE is currently headquartered in Hanson, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "25669698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25669698", "title": "Dunstable Swan Jewel", "text": "Dunstable Swan Jewel\n\nThe Dunstable Swan Jewel is a gold and enamel brooch in the form of a swan made in England or France in about 1400 and now in the British Museum, where it is on display in Room 40. It was excavated in 1965 on the site of Dunstable Friary, and is presumed to have been intended as a livery badge given by an important figure to his supporters; the most likely candidate is probably the future Henry V of England, who was Prince of Wales from 1399.\n\nThe jewel is a rare medieval example of the then recently developed and fashionable white opaque enamel used in \"en ronde bosse\" to almost totally encase an underlying gold form. It is invariably compared to the white hart badges worn by King Richard II and the angels surrounding the Virgin Mary in the painted \"Wilton Diptych\" of around the same date, where the chains hang freely down.\n\nThe jewel is formed as a standing or walking mute swan \"gorged\" with a gold collar in the form of a royal crown with six \"fleur-de-lys\" tines. There is a gold chain terminating in a ring attached to the crown, and the swan has a pin and catch on its right side for fastening the brooch to clothes or a hat. The swan is 3.2 cm high and 2.5 cm wide, and the length of the chain is 8.2 cm. The swan's body is in white enamel, its eyes are of black enamel, which also once covered the legs and feet, where only traces now remain. Tiny fragments of pink or red enamel remain on the beak.\n\nThe jewel is a unique survival of the most expensive form of livery badge, otherwise only known from inventories and representations in paintings. These were badges in various forms made for a leading figure bearing his personal device, and given to others who would demonstrate by wearing them that they were in some way his employees, retainers, allies or supporters. They were especially common in England in the age of \"bastard feudalism\" from the mid-fourteenth century until about the end of the fifteenth century, a period of intense factional conflict which saw the deposition of Richard II and the Wars of the Roses.\n\nA lavish badge like the jewel would only have been worn by the person whose device was represented, members of his family or important supporters, and possibly servants who were in regular very close contact with him. However the jewel lacks the ultimate luxury of being set with gems, for example ruby eyes, like the gems on the lion pendants worn by Sir John Donne and his wife in their portraits by Hans Memling, now in the National Gallery, London, and several examples listed on the 1397 treasure roll of Richard II. In the \"Wilton Diptych\", Richard's own badge has pearls on the antler tips, which the angels' badges lack. The white hart in the badge on the Treasury Roll, which the painted one may have copied, had pearls and sat on a grass bed made of emeralds, and a hart badge of Richard's inventoried in the possession of Duke Philip the Good of Burgundy in 1435 was set with 22 pearls, two spinels, two sapphires, a ruby and a huge diamond.\n\nCheaper forms of badge were more widely distributed, sometimes very freely indeed, rather as modern political campaign buttons and tee-shirts are, though as in some modern countries wearing the wrong badge in the wrong place could lead to personal danger. In 1483 King Richard III ordered 13,000 fustian (cloth) badges with his emblem of a boar for the investiture of his son Edward as Prince of Wales, a huge number given the population at the time. Other grades of boar badges that have survived are in lead, silver, and gilded copper high relief, the last found at Richard's home of Middleham Castle in Yorkshire, and very likely worn by one of his household when he was Duke of Gloucester. The British Museum also has a flat lead swan badge with low relief, typical of the cheap metal badges which were similar to the pilgrim badges that were also common in the period.\nIn 1377, when the young Richard II's highly unpopular uncle, John of Gaunt, was Regent, one of his more than 200 retainers, Sir John Swinton, unwisely rode through London wearing Gaunt's badge on a livery collar (an innovation of Gaunt's, probably the Collar of Esses). The mob attacked him, pulling him off his horse and the badge off him, and he had to be rescued by the mayor from suffering serious harm. Over twenty years later, after Gaunt's son Henry IV had deposed Richard, one of Richard's servants was imprisoned by Henry for continuing to wear Richard's livery badge. Many of the large number of badges of various liveries recovered from the Thames in London were perhaps discarded hurriedly by retainers who found themselves impoliticly dressed at various times.\n\nApparently beginning relatively harmlessly under Edward III in a context of tournaments and courtly celebrations, by the reign of his grandson, Richard II, the badges had become seen as a social menace, and were \"one of the most protracted controversies of Richard's reign\", as they were used to denote the small private armies of retainers kept by lords, largely for the purpose of enforcing their lord's will on the less powerful in his area. Though they were surely a symptom rather than a cause of both local baronial bullying and the disputes between the king and his uncles and other lords, Parliament repeatedly tried to curb the use of livery badges. The issuing of badges by lords was attacked in the Parliament of 1384, and in 1388 they made the startling request that \"all liveries called badges [\"signes\"], as well of our lord the king as of other lords ... shall be abolished\", because \"those who wear them are flown with such insolent arrogance that they do not shrink from practising with reckless effrontery various kinds of extortion in the surrounding countryside ... and it is certainly the boldness inspired by these badges that makes them unafraid to do these things\". Richard offered to give up his own badges, to the delight of the House of Commons of England, but the House of Lords refused to give up theirs, and the matter was put off. In 1390 it was ordered that no one below the rank of banneret should issue badges, and no one below the rank of esquire wear them. The issue was apparently quiet for a few years, but from 1397 Richard issued increasingly large numbers of badges to retainers who misbehaved (his \"Cheshire archers\" being especially notorious), and in the Parliament of 1399, after his deposition, several of his leading supporters were forbidden from issuing \"badges of signs\" again, and a statute was passed allowing only the king (now Henry IV) to issue badges, and only to those ranking as esquires and above, who were only to wear them in his presence. In the end it took a determined campaign by Henry VII to largely stamp out the use of livery badges by others than the king, and reduce them to things normally worn only by household servants.\n\nThe widespread use of the swan as a badge largely derives from the legend of the Swan Knight, today most familiar from Richard Wagner's opera \"Lohengrin\". A group of Old French \"chansons de geste\" called the Crusade cycle had associated the legend with the ancestors of Godfrey of Bouillon (d. 1100), the hero of the First Crusade. Although Godfrey had no legitimate issue, his family had many descendants among the aristocracy of Europe, many of whom made use of the swan in their heraldry or as a para-heraldic emblem. In England these included the important de Bohun family, which used the so-called Bohun swan as its heraldic badge; after the marriage in 1380 of Mary de Bohun (d. 1394) to the future King Henry IV of England, the swan became adopted by the House of Lancaster, who continued to use it for over a century. The swan with the crown and chain is especially associated with Lancastrian use; it echoes the crown and chain of Richard II's white hart, which he began to use as a livery badge from 1390. As well as several of his own white hart badges, Richard's treasure roll of 1397 also includes a swan badge with a gold chain, perhaps presented by one of his enemies mentioned above: \"Item, a gold swan enamelled white with a little gold chain hanging around the neck, weighing 2 oz., value, 46s. 8d\". He declared to Parliament that he had exchanged liveries with his uncles as a sign of amity at various moments of reconciliation.\n\nAfter Henry seized the throne in 1399, the use of the swan emblem was transferred to his son, the future Henry V, who was made Prince of Wales at his father's coronation, and whose tomb in Westminster Abbey includes swans. It was also used by his grandson Edward of Westminster, Prince of Wales before his death in the Battle of Tewkesbury in 1471. In 1459 Edward's mother Margaret of Anjou insisted that he give swan livery badges to \"all the gentlemen of Cheshire\"; the type and number are unknown.\n\nIt was also used by other families; the swan was the crest of the Beauchamp Earls of Warwick, leading supporters of the Lancastrian faction under Thomas de Beauchamp, 12th Earl of Warwick (d. 1401). Eleanor de Bohun, Mary's sister, had in 1376 also married into the Plantagenet royal family, in the person of King Edward III of England's youngest son, Thomas of Woodstock, 1st Duke of Gloucester (d. 1397), another prominent Lancastrian supporter, and the swan badge was used by his Stafford descendants. Mary and Eleanor were co-heiresses to huge Bohun estates, and disputes over the settlement of these continued until late into the next century, when most of their descendants had been killed in the Wars of the Roses, perhaps encouraging the continued assertion of Bohun ancestry. Henry Stafford, 2nd Duke of Buckingham, a descendant of the Beauchamps, Eleanor de Bohun and Thomas of Woodstock, and John of Gaunt, used the swan with crown and chain as his own badge. He was certainly active in trying to get the Bohun lands, and may well have also plotted to seize the throne, for which he was executed in 1483 by Richard III.\n\nAnother user of swan insignia around 1400 was John, Duke of Berry, the Valois prince who commissioned two of the most spectacular medieval works featuring white enamel \"en ronde bosse\", the Holy Thorn Reliquary, also in the British Museum, and the \"Goldenes Rössl\". He has been considered as a possible commissioner of the jewel, in which case it would almost certainly have been made in Paris, and might have made its way to England after being presented. This might also have been the case if it was commissioned by an English person, especially a royal one. However, there are records of London goldsmiths producing white enamel works for the court, and a reliquary with many figures in white \"ronde bosse\" enamel and now in the Louvre may have been made in London. Other small jewels have survived in England which may have been made in London, either by native goldsmiths or the foreign ones known to have worked there.\n\nNo more precise date for the jewel than \"around 1400\" is given by experts; this might have a wider range than many works as style is not much help in dating here. Given the royal collar of the swan, the marriage of the future Henry IV to Mary de Bohun probably provides the earliest possible date. A date \"after\" Henry IV seized the throne in 1399—when his son would have been using the badge—is perhaps more likely. The difficult technique of adding elements in further colours was not perfected until about 1400, in Paris. Fixing a \"terminus ante quem\" is more difficult, but white enamel \"en ronde bosse\" became less fashionable after about the 1430s. Moreover, there was no Prince of Wales between 1413, when Henry V succeeded to the throne, and 1454.\n\nDunstable, where the ancient roads of Watling Street and the Icknield Way cross some thirty miles north of London, was frequently visited by the medieval elite. Apart from travellers passing through, tournaments were held there at least until the 1340s, and Lancastrian armies used it as a base in 1459 and 1461. The jewel was found in an excavation of the friary, in what seemed to be a deposit of rubble dating from the destruction of the buildings after the Dissolution of the Monasteries. It would appear to have been above ground until that point. However, it must have been overlooked—the scrap value of the gold itself would have prevented it from being merely discarded. After its excavation, the jewel was bought by the British Museum in 1966 for £5,000, of which £666 was a grant from the Art Fund (then NACF); other contributions were made by the Pilgrim Trust and the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths. It is on display in Room 40.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3479733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3479733", "title": "Dzala ertobashia", "text": "Dzala ertobashia\n\nDzala ertobashia (Georgian: ძალა ერთობაშია, , \"Strength is in Unity\") is the official motto of Georgia.\nIt originally comes from a famous fable by Sulkhan-Saba Orbeliani of the same name. According to this fable, once upon a time there lived a king with thirty sons. One day, when he was dying, he called his sons and asked them to bring arrows. Then king asked them to break the arrows one by one, and the sons did. The king then asked them to break the arrows all at once, and they could not. The king said: \"Teach O my sons from this fact, that there is \"‘strength in unity.’\" If you are together, an enemy cannot do you wrong, but if you are divided, victory will be on their side.\"\n\nThe problem of unity is very real for the Georgian state, and thus was likely a factor in the decision to make the phrase the national motto.\n\nVersions of this phrase are the national mottos of Belgium, Bulgaria, and Haiti, and also formerly in the historical Traansvaal, apartheid-era South Africa (as \"Ex Unitate Vires\"), and Malaya. There is a popular legend in Bulgaria about Kubrat, ruler of Great Bulgaria, who also gave his sons the same advice by the same example.\n\n"}
{"id": "12642525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12642525", "title": "Economic Development and Cultural Change", "text": "Economic Development and Cultural Change\n\nEconomic Development and Cultural Change (EDCC) publishes studies that use modern theoretical and empirical approaches to examine both the determinants and the effects of various dimensions of economic development and cultural change. It covers all aspects of the economics of developing countries, including education reform, immigration, debt bondage, ethnicity, land redistribution, and economic development and cultural change. \"EDCC\"’s focus is on empirical papers with analytic underpinnings, concentrating on micro-level evidence, that use appropriate data to test theoretical models and explore policy impacts related to economic development.\n\nThe major founder of the journal was Bert F. Hoselitz who served as editor from 1952 until 1985. The journal was established at the University of Chicago's Center for Research on Economic Development and Cultural Change. The Center's board and the journal's founders took the view that interdisciplinary research would be required to understand issues of economic development.\n"}
{"id": "58388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58388", "title": "Fis phenomenon", "text": "Fis phenomenon\n\nFis phenomenon is a phenomenon of child language acquisition that demonstrates that perception of phonemes occurs earlier than the ability of the child to produce those phonemes. It is also illustrative of a larger theme in child language acquisition: that skills in linguistic comprehension generally precede corresponding skills in linguistic production.\n\nThe name comes from an incident reported in 1960 by J. Berko and R. Brown. A child referred to his inflatable plastic fish as a \"fis\". However, when adults asked him, \"Is this your \"fis\"?\" he rejected the statement. When he was asked, \"Is this your fish?\" he responded, \"Yes, my fis.\" This shows that although the child could not produce the phoneme , he could perceive it as being different from the phoneme . \nIn some cases, the sounds produced by the child are actually acoustically different, but not significantly enough for others to distinguish since the language in question does not make such contrasts.\n"}
{"id": "50473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50473", "title": "Gargoyle", "text": "Gargoyle\n\nIn architecture, a gargoyle () is a carved or formed grotesque with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building, thereby preventing rainwater from running down masonry walls and eroding the mortar between. Architects often used multiple gargoyles on a building to divide the flow of rainwater off the roof to minimize the potential damage from a rainstorm. A trough is cut in the back of the gargoyle and rainwater typically exits through the open mouth. Gargoyles are usually an elongated fantastical animal because the length of the gargoyle determines how far water is directed from the wall. When Gothic flying buttresses were used, aqueducts were sometimes cut into the buttress to divert water over the aisle walls.\n\nThe term originates from the French \"gargouille,\" which in English is likely to mean \"throat\" or is otherwise known as the \"gullet\"; cf. Latin \"gurgulio, gula, gargula\" (\"gullet\" or \"throat\") and similar words derived from the root \"gar,\" \"to swallow\", which represented the gurgling sound of water (e.g., Portuguese and Spanish \"garganta,\" \"throat\"; \"gárgola,\" \"gargoyle\"). It is also connected to the French verb \"gargariser,\" which shares a Latin root with the verb \"gargle\" and is likely imitative in origin. The Italian word for gargoyle is \"doccione\" or \"gronda sporgente,\" an architecturally precise phrase which means \"protruding gutter. (Italian also uses \"gargolla\" o \"garguglia\", when it has a grotesque shape)\n\nWhen not constructed as a waterspout and only serving an ornamental or artistic function, the correct term for such a sculpture is a grotesque, chimera, or boss. There are also regional variations, such as the hunky punk. Just as with bosses and chimeras, gargoyles are said to frighten off and protect those that it guards, such as a church, from any evil or harmful spirits.\n\nA French legend that sprang up around the name of St. Romanus (; fl. 631 – 641 AD), the former chancellor of the Merovingian king Clotaire II who was made bishop of Rouen, relates how he delivered the country around Rouen from a monster called \"Gargouille\" or \"Goji\". La Gargouille is said to have been the typical dragon with bat-like wings, a long neck, and the ability to breathe fire from its mouth. Multiple versions of the story are given, either that St. Romanus subdued the creature with a crucifix, or he captured the creature with the help of the only volunteer, a condemned man. In each, the monster is led back to Rouen and burned, but its head and neck would not burn due to being tempered by its own fire breath. The head was then mounted on the walls of the newly built church to scare off evil spirits, and used for protection. In commemoration of St. Romain, the Archbishops of Rouen were granted the right to set a prisoner free on the day that the reliquary of the saint was carried in procession (see details at Rouen).\n\nThe term \"gargoyle\" is most often applied to medieval work, but throughout all ages, some means of water diversion, when not conveyed in gutters, was adopted. In Ancient Egyptian architecture, gargoyles showed little variation, typically in the form of a lion's head. Similar lion-mouthed water spouts were also seen on Greek temples, carved or modelled in the marble or terracotta cymatium of the cornice. An excellent example of this are the 39 remaining lion-headed water spouts on the Temple of Zeus. Originally, it had 102 gargoyles or spouts, but due to the heavy weight (they were crafted from marble), many snapped off and had to be replaced.\n\nMany medieval cathedrals included gargoyles and chimeras. According to French architect and author Eugène Viollet-le-Duc, himself one of the great producers of gargoyles in the 19th century, the earliest known medieval gargoyles appear on Laon Cathedral c. 1200–1220. One of the more famous examples is the gargoyles of Notre Dame de Paris. Although most have grotesque features, the term gargoyle has come to include all types of images. Some gargoyles were depicted as monks, or combinations of real animals and people, many of which were humorous. Unusual animal mixtures, or chimeras, did not act as rainspouts and are more properly called grotesques. They serve as ornamentation but are now popularly called gargoyles.\n\nBoth ornamented and unornamented water spouts projecting from roofs at parapet level were a common device used to shed rainwater from buildings until the early 18th century. From that time, more and more buildings used drainpipes to carry the water from the guttering roof to the ground and only very few buildings using gargoyles were constructed. This was because some people found them frightening, and sometimes heavy ones fell off, causing damage. In 1724, the London Building Act passed by the Parliament of Great Britain made the use of downpipes compulsory on all new construction.\n\nThe primary use of the gargoyle was to illustrate evil through the form of the gargoyle, while another theory posits that grotesques in architecture were apotropaic devices. In the 12th century, before the use of gargoyles as rainspouts, St. Bernard of Clairvaux was famous for speaking out against gargoyles carved on the walls of his monastery's cloister:\nAccording to Lester Burbank Bridaham, writing in \"Gargoylaes, Chimeres and the Grotesque in French Gothic Sculpture\", \"There is much symbolism in the sculpture of the Gothic period; but we must be wary of reading in too much meaning.\"\nThe ancient Egyptians, Greeks, Etruscans, and Romans all used animal-shaped waterspouts. During the 12th Century, when gargoyles appeared in Europe, the Roman Catholic Church was growing stronger and converting many new people. Most of the population at this time was illiterate, so images were very important to convey ideas. Many early gargoyles depicted some version of a dragon, especially in France. In addition to serving as spouts for water, the gaping mouths of these gargoyles evoked the fearsome destructiveness of these legendary beasts, reminding the laity of the need for the church's protection.\n\nHuman qualities were sometimes ascribed to specific animals—that is, the animals were anthropomorphized. This was especially common for pagans, and using these ideas helped conversion to Catholicism. Some animals (such as the rhinoceros and the hippopotamus) were unknown in western Europe during the Middle Ages, so gargoyles of these species (such as the ones at Laon Cathedral) are modern gargoyles and therefore did not have symbolic meaning in Medieval times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31992732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31992732", "title": "Generative theory of tonal music", "text": "Generative theory of tonal music\n\nA generative theory of tonal music (GTTM) is a theory of music conceived by American composer and music theorist Fred Lerdahl and American linguist Ray Jackendoff and presented in the 1983 book of the same title. It constitutes a \"formal description of the musical intuitions of a listener who is experienced in a musical idiom\" with the aim of illuminating the unique human capacity for musical understanding.\n\nThe collaboration between Lerdahl and Jackendoff was inspired by Leonard Bernstein's 1973 Charles Eliot Norton Lectures at Harvard University, wherein he called for researchers to uncover a musical grammar that could explain the human musical mind in a scientific manner comparable to Noam Chomsky's revolutionary transformational or generative grammar.\n\nUnlike the major methodologies of music analysis that preceded it, GTTM construes the mental procedures under which the listener constructs an unconscious understanding of music, and uses these tools to illuminate the structure of individual compositions. The theory has been influential, spurring further work by its authors and other researchers in the fields of music theory, music cognition and cognitive musicology.\n\nGTTM focuses on four hierarchical systems that shape our musical intuitions. Each of these systems is expressed in a strict hierarchical structure where dominant regions contain smaller subordinate elements and equal elements exist contiguously within a particular and explicit hierarchical level. In GTTM any level can be small-scale or large-scale depending on the size of its elements.\n\nGTTM considers grouping analysis to be the most basic component of musical understanding. It expresses a hierarchical segmentation of the piece into motives, phrases, periods and still larger sections.\n\nMetrical structure expresses the intuition that the events of a piece are related to a regular alternation of strong and weak beats at a number of hierarchical levels. It is a crucial basis for all the structures and reductions of GTTM.\n\nTime-span reductions (TSRs) are based on information gleaned from metrical and grouping structures. They establish tree structure-style hierarchical organizations uniting time-spans at all temporal levels of a work. The TSR analysis begins at the smallest levels, where metrical structure marks off the music into beats of equal length (or more precisely into attack points separated by uniform time-spans) and moves through all larger levels where grouping structure divides the music into motives, phrases, periods, theme groups and still greater divisions. It further specifies a “head” (or most structurally important event) for each time-span at all hierarchical levels of the analysis. A completed TSR analysis is often called a time-span tree.\n\nProlongational reduction (PR) provides our \"psychological\" awareness of tensing and relaxing patterns in a given piece with precise structural terms. In time-span reduction, the hierarchy of less and more important events is established according to rhythmic stability. In prolongational reduction, hierarchy is concerned with relative stability expressed in terms of continuity and progression, the movement toward tension or relaxation, and the degree of closure or non-closure. A PR analysis also produces a tree-structure style hierarchical analysis, but this information is often conveyed in a visually condensed modified \"slur\" notation.\n\nThe need for prolongational reduction mainly arises from two limitations of time-span reductions. The first is that time-span reduction fails to express the sense of continuity produced by harmonic rhythm. The second is that time-span reduction—even though it establishes that particular pitch-events are heard in relation to a particular beat, within a particular group—fails to say anything about how music flows across these segments.\n\nIt is helpful to note some basic differences between a time-span tree produced by TSR and a prolongational tree produced by PR. First, though the basic branching divisions produced by the two trees are often the same or similar at high structural levels, branching variations between the two trees are often observed as one travels further down towards the musical surface.\n\nA second and equally important differentiation is that a prolongational tree carries three types of branching: strong prolongation (represented by an open node at the branching point), weak prolongation (represented by a filled node at the branching point) and progression (represented by simple branching, with no node). Time-span trees do not make this distinction. All time-span trees branches are simple branches without nodes. (Although time-span tree branches are often annotated with other helpful comments.)\n\nEach of the four major hierarchical organizations (grouping structure, metrical structure, time-span reduction and prolongational reduction) is established through rules, which are divided into three categories:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTime-span reduction rules begin with two segmentation rules and proceed to the standard WFRs, PRs and TRs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2591491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2591491", "title": "Getai", "text": "Getai\n\nA getai (literally song stage) (Simplified Chinese: 歌台), is a usually boisterous live stage performance held during the Ghost Festival commonly held in Singapore, Malaysia and some parts of Indonesia (mainly in Riau, Riau Islands and North Sumatra), in contrast to the generally solemn mood of the festival. However the performance is also routinely played at other Chinese festivals. The stage setup is usually composed of temporary structures and situated in the suburbs of the city in any empty field or even in parking spaces or housing estate.\n\nIn the past, performances were usually of Chinese operas or puppet shows. The performances are meant to be for the spirits but also for people during the seventh month. With the decline of Chinese opera and traditional puppet shows, the performances evolved to become what is known today as Getai.\n\nYounger people in Singapore may relate to Getai as kitsch, while older people enjoy dancing and singing along to familiar songs, often in Hokkien. Traditional singers such as Liu Lingling tend to dress conservatively, while young performers drawn to getai may choose more revealing outfits.\n\nThe backdrop of the stage is usually made of cardboard and clothes painted in bright colours, vibrantly illuminated by coloured spotlights. The performers normally don loud and glittery clothing. Some compères indulge in crude humour; others maintain a quick-witted dialogue, joking about local and current affairs, sometimes switching between Mandarin, local Chinese dialects, and even English and Indian languages.\n\nGetai has been increasingly accepted and celebrated by the mainstream media. Royston Tan's 2007 movie \"881\" is based on a pair of getai singers. The \"Straits Times's\" social networking and citizen journalism portal STOMP holds the Getai Awards annually to honour popular getai artists. These artists are selected via voting by the general public.\n\n\"Getai\" emerged in Singapore in the years of Japanese occupation in the 1940s. An early \"getai\" was built in Weiyang Gong in the New World Amusement Park, however it was bombed by the Japanese and a new stage Gongkai Tai was built. The early \"getai\" performed mostly songs. Later dancing, drama and acrobatics were also added by performers from \"gewutuan\" (歌舞团 or song-and-dance troupes), another kind of entertainment show that had begun to decline in popularity by that time. \"Getai\" became increasing popular, and by the 1950s, there were 4 \"getai\" stages in the New World, and many other \"getai\" were also set up in other amusement parks.\n\n\"Getai\" in amusement parks declined in popularity in the late 1950s and began to be closed in the 1960s. It had however become established by the 1970s as popular entertainment on makeshift stages set-up along streets and in other public spaces during Ghost Festival. In more recent years, \"getai\" has also been organized for other Chinese festivals, such as the Mid-Autumn Festival. Resorts World Sentosa's casino included getai in its 2010 Chinese New Year celebrations. Loyang Tua Pek Kong Temple arranged \"getai\" for the 2010 Mid-Autumn celebrations.\n\nA groundbreaking \"getai\" was held in 2006. This was a twelve-hour marathon \"getai\" that saw many famous performers gracing the stage and bringing the crowd to their feet. The organiser was Peter Loh, a veteran in the getai scene. The marathon was a one-of-a-kind and it really awed the whole of Singapore. 2011 was another milestone when getai performances were held at Orchard Road for the first time. And the stage design and sound system have major changes throughout the years.\n\nIn 2015, Singapore Mediacorp Channel 8 held a competition for \"getai\" singers called \"GeTai Challenge\" (歌台星力量). The show run for two seasons with the most recent season premiered on April 20, 2018 and ended on August 10, 2018. \n\nA Copyright Permit (for Ad-Hoc Events) is needed for public performances, like getai. This can be acquired from COMPASS - Composers and Authors Society of Singapore Ltd.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39289136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39289136", "title": "Government Seal of Bangladesh", "text": "Government Seal of Bangladesh\n\nThe Government Seal of Bangladesh () used by the Cabinet of Bangladesh and the Government of Bangladesh on official documents.\n\nOne version is used on the cover page of Bangladeshi passports. \nThe Seal features the same design elements as the first Flag of Bangladesh in a circular setting. The outer white ring is shown with the caption of the official name of the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh in Bengali: \"গণপ্রজাতন্ত্রী বাংলাদেশ সরকার\" with 4 red 5-pointed stars. In centre the country map on a red disc.\n\nThe seal was adopted as the National Emblem of Bangladesh by the Provisional Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh popularly known as the Mujibnagar Government, was the government in exile of Bangladesh based in Kolkata, India, during the Bangladesh Liberation War. Formed in early April 1971, the provisional government confirmed the declaration of independence of East Pakistan made earlier by Bengali nationalist leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on 26 March.\n"}
{"id": "175425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175425", "title": "Guillaume Thomas François Raynal", "text": "Guillaume Thomas François Raynal\n\nGuillaume Thomas Raynal (12 April 1713 – 6 March 1796) was a French writer and man of letters during the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nHe was born at Lapanouse in Rouergue. He was educated at the Jesuit school of Pézenas, and received priest's orders, but he was dismissed for unexplained reasons from the parish of Saint-Sulpice, Paris. He became a writer and journalist, leaving the religious order for life. The Abbé Raynal wrote for the \"Mercure de France\", and compiled a series of popular but superficial works, which he published and sold himself. These—\"L'Histoire du stathoudérat\" (The Hague, 1748), \"L'Histoire du parlement d'Angleterre\" (London, 1748), \"Anecdotes historiques\" (Amsterdam, 3 vols., 1753)—gained for him access to the salons of Mme. Geoffrin, Helvétius, and the Baron d'Holbach.\n\nIn May 1754 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nHe had the assistance of various members of the \"philosophe côteries\" in his most important work, \"L'Histoire philosophique et politique des établissements et du commerce des Européens dans les deux Indes\" (\"Philosophical and Political History of the Two Indies\" Amsterdam, 4 vols., 1770). Diderot is credited with a third of this work, which was characterized by Voltaire as \"\"du réchauffé avec de la declamation\".\" The other chief collaborators were Pechméja, Baron d'Holbach, Paulze, the farmer-general of taxes, the Abbé Martin, and Alexandre Deleyre. To this piecemeal method of composition, in which narrative alternated with tirades on political and social questions, was added the further disadvantage of the lack of exact information, which, owing to the dearth of documents, could only have been gained by personal investigation. He released an expanded edition in 1774 and another in 1780.\n\nThe \"philosophic\" declamations perhaps constituted its chief interest for the general public, and its significance as a contribution to democratic propaganda. The \"Histoire\" went through many editions, being revised and augmented from time to time by Raynal; it was translated into the principal European languages, and appeared in various abridgments. Its introduction into France was forbidden in 1779; the book was burned by the public executioner, and an order was given for the arrest of the author, whose name had not appeared in the first edition, but was printed on the title page of the Geneva edition of 1780. Seven new maps for the 1798 English edition were engraved by Thomas Kitchin, Jr.\n\nThe book examines the East Indies, South America, the West Indies, and North America. The final chapter comprises theory around the future of Europe as a whole. Raynal also examines commerce, religion, slavery, and other popular subjects, all with a perspective from the French Enlightenment. Additional versions of the book included maps of the discussed regions.\n\nRaynal went into exile, to Spa, and then to Berlin, where he was coolly received by Frederick the Great, in spite of his connection with the philosophe party.\n\nAt St. Petersburg he met with a more cordial reception from Catherine II, and in 1787 he was permitted to return to France, though not to Paris. He showed generosity in assigning a considerable income to be divided annually among the peasant proprietors of upper Guienne. He was elected by Marseilles to the States-general, but refused to sit on the score of age. Raynal now realized the impossibility of a peaceful revolution, and, in terror of the proceedings for which the writings of himself and his friends had prepared the way, he sent to the Constituent Assembly an address, which was read on 31 May 1791, deprecating the violence of its reforms.\n\nThis address is said by Sainte-Beuve (\"Nouveaux lundis\", xi.) to have been composed chiefly by Clermont Tonnerre and Pierre V. Malouet, and it was regarded, even by moderate men, as ill-timed. The published \"Lettre de l'abbé Raynal a l'Assemblee nationale\" (10 December 1790) was really the work of the comte de Guibert. During the Terror Raynal lived in retirement at Passy and at Montlhery. On the establishment of the Directory in 1795 he became a member of the newly organized Institute of France.\n\nRaynal died 6 March 1796 at Chaillot.\n\nA detailed bibliography of his works and of those falsely attributed to him will be found in Quérard's \"La France littéraire\", and the same author's \"Supercheries dévoilées\". The biography by A Jay, prefixed to Peuchet's edition (Paris, 10 vols, 1820–1821) of the \"Histoire ... des Indes\", is of small value. To this edition Peuchet added two supplementary volumes on colonial development from 1785 to 1824. See also the anonymous \"Raynal démasqué\" (1791); Cherhal Montreal, \"Éloge ... de G. T. Raynal\" (an. IV.); a notice in the \"Moniteur\" (5 vendémiaire, an. V.); B Lunet, \"Biographie de l'abbé Raynal\" (Rodez, 1866); and J Morley, \"Diderot\" (1891).\n\n\n\n The article is available here.\n"}
{"id": "3980891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3980891", "title": "Hare Tonic", "text": "Hare Tonic\n\nHare Tonic is a 1945 Warner Bros. cartoon in the Looney Tunes series, directed by Chuck Jones and written by Tedd Pierce. It stars Bugs Bunny and Elmer Fudd, making this the second cartoon directed by Jones to co-star the two (the first being Elmer's Pet Rabbit). Voice characterizations are by Mel Blanc and Arthur Q. Bryan, respectively.\n\nThe title is a play on \"hair tonic\", a type of patent medicine, reinforced by Bugs' portrayal of a fake doctor at one point in the picture. A bottle of \"hare tonic\" appeared as a prop in a 1946 cartoon, \"The Big Snooze\".\n\nElmer Fudd has purchased Bugs Bunny at a local grocery store (with a sign visible in the window offering a special on \"Fresh Hare\") and is taking him home to make a meal. As he walks along, he sings the tune of \"Shortnin' Bread\", substituting \"Wabbit Stew\". Bugs pops out of Elmer's basket, munching on a carrot that was in there with him, and asks, \"Eh, whatcha got in the basket, doc?\" Elmer replies, \"I got me a wabbit! I'm gonna cook me a wabbit stew!\" Bugs states his \"love\" of rabbit stew (though he is clearly a rabbit) and then begs to see Elmer's rabbit. When Elmer opens his basket and finds it empty (Bugs had quickly climbed out), Bugs pushes his nemesis into his own basket and then sings the tune Elmer had been singing — but then Elmer realizes he's been tricked, and so he re-reverses the switch. Foreshadowing pranks to come, Bugs tells the audience from inside the basket (à la Red Skelton's \"mean widdle kid\"), \"He don't know me vewy well, do he?\"\n\nOnce at home, Bugs easily secures his escape by distracting Elmer, tricking him into thinking the phone has rung. However, just as he's about to leave, he decides that the setup's too easy and he just can't leave. He decides to stay and heckle his would-be devourer. Bugs effects a radio broadcast that warns of the dread disease \"rabbititis\", which is contracted from rabbits \"sold within the last three days\" and which causes people to see spots and have \"delusions assuming the characteristics of rabbits\", which is followed by the onset of schizophrenia and depersonalization disorder.This frightens the gullible Elmer and he informs Bugs that he is free to leave. Bugs, however, decides he doesn't want to leave by saying \"Oh, no, Doc. Wouldn't think of it. We're gonna brew a stew, remember?\", only to make Elmer back away, forcing him to hide on top of his door: \"Oh no! Pwease, Mr. Wabbit! Go away! Don't come any cwoser! D-Don't come near me! NOOOOOOOOO!\". Bugs, thinking he has B.O., sniffs his glove and tells the audience \"Oh, goodness! Don't tell me I offend.\" just as Elmer pleads with Bugs to \"Make twacks. Scuwwy away. SCWAM!\" to which Bugs angrily replies as he leaves \"OKAY! I CAN TAKE A HINT! I KNOW WHEN I'M NOT WANTED! GOODBYE!\". But when Bugs returns, Elmer reminds him that Bugs has to \"scwam\", but Bugs points to a sign on the door that states \"QUARANTINED FOR RABBITITUS (RABBITITIS). NO ONE MAY LEAVE PREMISES.\"\n\nThus Bugs stays to torment Elmer, and many hijinks ensue, including Bugs posing as Elmer's shower faucets {\"Gurgle, gurgle. Why don't ya' pay ya' water bill, Doc?\"} and a doctor (\"Dr. Killpatient\", parodying Dr. Kildare), painting a room with red, yellow and blue spots to make Elmer think he sees spots before his eyes and pretending to be Elmer's reflection in the mirror (a scene inspired by the famous mirror scene in the Marx Brothers' film, \"Duck Soup\") and his own \"rabbity\" image reflected at him in a mirror that's really just Bugs after the glass has been removed. And when Dr. Killpatient (Bugs) tests Elmer's reflexes, Elmer goes into a familiar Russian kick dance, and Bugs decides to join him in a busby hat and boots. Finally, Elmer sees Bugs' game and chases him out of the house with a shotgun. But Bugs quickly halts the chase and, in an unusually lengthy breaking of the fourth wall, even by Bugs' standards, he convinces Elmer that members of the audience are now afflicted with rabbititis by saying \"Hey, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Look, the people out there in the audience - the lady there with the long ears. They're getting longer all the time. And the guy back there in the seventeenth row with the cute tomato - he's gettin' all fuzzy. Yeah, they've got it. Everybody out there's got rabbititis! Yaah!\" which causes Elmer to flee back into his house in a terror of panic.\n\nBugs then addresses the audience and says the whole thing was \"just a gag, of course\" and that if the audience really had rabbititis, they'd see swirling red and yellow spots, whereupon red and yellow spots are seen swirling on the screen, and the underscore starts to build dramatically. Immediately after Bugs says, \"And then suddenly, everything'd go black!\" the screen does suddenly go black, and the music stops abruptly and dramatically, followed by a second or two of dark silence. Bugs snickers and the cartoon ends.\n\n\n\nThis cartoon is found on of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection, and on of the Looney Tunes Platinum Collection.\n"}
{"id": "13535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13535", "title": "Heart of Darkness", "text": "Heart of Darkness\n\nHeart of Darkness (1899) is a novella by Polish-English novelist Joseph Conrad about a narrated voyage up the Congo River into the Congo Free State in the so-called \"heart of Africa\". Charles Marlow, the narrator, tells his story to friends aboard a boat anchored on the River Thames. This setting provides the frame for Marlow's story of his obsession with the ivory trader Kurtz, which enables Conrad to create a parallel between what Conrad calls \"the greatest town on earth\", London, and Africa as places of darkness.\n\nCentral to Conrad's work is the idea that there is little difference between so-called civilised people and those described as savages; \"Heart of Darkness\" raises questions about imperialism and racism.\n\nOriginally issued as a three-part serial story in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" to celebrate the thousandth edition of the magazine, \"Heart of Darkness\" has been widely re-published and translated into many languages. In 1998, the Modern Library ranked \"Heart of Darkness\" 67th on their list of the 100 best novels in English of the twentieth century.\n\nIn 1890, at the age of 32, Conrad was appointed by a Belgian trading company to serve on one of its steamers. While sailing up the Congo River from one station to another, the captain became ill and Conrad assumed command. He guided the ship up the tributary Lualaba River to the trading company's innermost station, Kindu, in Eastern Kongo. The story's main narrator, Charles Marlow, has similar experiences to the author himself.\nWhen Conrad began to write the novella, eight years after returning from Africa, he drew inspiration from his travel journals. He described \"Heart of Darkness\" as \"a wild story\" of a journalist who becomes manager of a station in the (African) interior and makes himself worshipped by a tribe of savages. Thus described, the subject seems comic, but isn't. The tale was first published as a three-part serial, February, March and April 1899, in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" (February 1899 was the magazine's 1000th issue: special edition). Then later, in 1902, \"Heart of Darkness\" was included in the book \"\" (published on 13 November 1902, by William Blackwood).\n\nThe volume consisted of \"Youth: a Narrative\", \"Heart of Darkness\" and \"The End of the Tether\" in that order. For future editions of the book, in 1917 Conrad wrote an \"\" where he, after denying any \"unity of artistic purpose\" underlying the collection, discusses each of the three stories, and makes light commentary on the character Marlow—the narrator of the tales within the first two stories. He also mentions how \"Youth\" marks the first appearance of Marlow.\n\nOn 31 May 1902, in a letter to William Blackwood, Conrad remarked:\n\nI call your own kind self to witness ... the last pages of Heart of Darkness where the interview of the man and the girl locks in—as it were—the whole 30000 words of narrative description into one suggestive view of a whole phase of life and makes of that story something quite on another plane than an anecdote of a man who went mad in the Centre of Africa.\n\nThere have been many proposed sources for the character of the antagonist, Kurtz. Georges-Antoine Klein, an agent who became ill and later died aboard Conrad's steamer, has been identified by scholars and literary critics as one basis for Kurtz. The principal figures involved in the disastrous \"rear column\" of the Emin Pasha Relief Expedition have also been identified as likely sources, including column leader Edmund Musgrave Barttelot, slave trader Tippu Tip and the expedition's overall leader, Welsh explorer Henry Morton Stanley. Adam Hochschild, in \"King Leopold's Ghost\", believes that the Belgian soldier Léon Rom is the most important influence on the character.\n\nAboard the \"Nellie\", anchored in the River Thames near Gravesend, England, Charles Marlow tells his fellow sailors about the events that led to his appointment as captain of a river steamboat for an ivory trading company. As a child, Marlow had been fascinated by \"the blank spaces\" on maps, particularly by the biggest, which by the time he had grown up was no longer blank but turned into \"a place of darkness\" (Conrad 10). Yet there remained a big river, \"resembling an immense snake uncoiled, with its head in the sea, its body at rest curving afar over a vast country and its tail lost in the depths of the land\" (Conrad 10). The image of this river on the map fascinated Marlow \"as a snake would a bird\" (Conrad 10). Feeling as though \"instead of going to the centre of a continent I were about to set off for the centre of the earth\", Marlow takes passage on a French steamer bound for the African coast and then into the interior (Conrad 18). After more than thirty days the ship anchors off the seat of the government near the mouth of the big river. Marlow, with still some two hundred miles to go, now takes passage on a little sea-going steamer captained by a Swede. He departs some thirty miles up the river where his Company's station is. Work on the railway is going on, involving removal of rocks with explosives. Marlow enters a narrow ravine to stroll in the shade under the trees, and finds himself in \"the gloomy circle of some Inferno\": the place is full of diseased Africans who worked on the railroad and now await their deaths, their sickened bodies already as thin as air (Conrad 24–25). Marlow witnesses the scene \"horror-struck\" (Conrad 26).\n\nMarlow has to wait for ten days in the Company's Outer Station, where he sleeps in a hut. At this station, which strikes Marlow as a scene of devastation, he meets the Company's impeccably dressed chief accountant who tells him of a Mr. Kurtz, who is in charge of a very important trading-post, and a widely respected, first-class agent, a \"'very remarkable person'\" who \"'Sends in as much ivory as all the others put together'\" (Conrad 28). The agent predicts that Kurtz will go very far: \"'He will be a somebody in the Administration before long. They, above—the Council in Europe, you know—mean him to be'\" (Conrad 29).\n\nMarlow departs with a caravan of sixty men to travel on foot some two hundred miles into the wilderness to the Central Station, where the steamboat that he is to captain is based. On the fifteenth day of his march, he arrives at the station, which has some twenty employees, and is shocked to learn from a fellow European that his steamboat had been wrecked in a mysterious accident two days earlier. He meets the general manager, who informs him that he could wait no longer for Marlow to arrive, because the up-river stations had to be relieved, and rumours had one important station in jeopardy because its chief, the exceptional Mr. Kurtz, was ill. \"Hang Kurtz\", Marlow thinks, irritated (Conrad 34). He fishes his boat out of the river and is occupied with its repair for some months, during which a sudden fire destroys a grass shed full of materials used to trade with the natives. While one of the natives is tortured for allegedly causing the fire, Marlow is invited in the room of the station's brick-maker, a man who spent a year waiting for material to make bricks. Marlow gets the impression the man wants to pump him, and is curious to know what kind of information he is after. Hanging on the wall is \"a small sketch in oils, on a panel, representing a woman draped and blindfolded carrying a lighted torch\" (Conrad 39). Marlow is fascinated with the sinister effect of the torchlight upon the woman's face, and is informed that Mr. Kurtz made the painting in the station a year ago. The brick-maker calls Kurtz \"'a prodigy'\" and \"'an emissary of pity, and science, and progress'\", and feels Kurtz represents the \"'higher intelligence, wide sympathies, a singleness of purpose'\" needed for the cause Europe entrusts the Company with (Conrad 39). The man predicts Kurtz will rise in the hierarchy within two years and then makes the connection to Marlow: \"'The same people who sent him specially also recommended you'\" (Conrad 39–40).\n\nMarlow is frustrated by the months it takes to perform the necessary repairs, made all the slower by the lack of proper tools and replacement parts at the station. During this time, he learns that Kurtz is far from admired, but more or less resented (mostly by the manager).\n\nOnce underway, the journey up-river to Kurtz's station takes two months to the day. The steamboat stops briefly near an abandoned hut on the riverbank, where Marlow finds a pile of wood and a note indicating that the wood is for them and that they should proceed quickly but with caution as they near the Inner Station.\nThe journey pauses for the night about eight miles below the Inner Station. In the morning the crew awakens to find that the boat is enveloped by a thick white fog. From the riverbank they hear a very loud cry, followed by a discordant clamour. A few hours later, as safe navigation becomes increasingly difficult, the steamboat is attacked with a barrage of small arrows from the forest. The helmsman is impaled by a spear and falls at Marlow's feet. Marlow sounds the steam whistle repeatedly, frightening the attackers and causing the shower of arrows to cease. Marlow and a pilgrim (Marlow's word for the European hangers-on in the steamer) watch the helmsman die. In a flash forward, Marlow notes that the International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs had commissioned Kurtz to write a report, which he did eloquently. A handwritten postscript, apparently added later by Kurtz, reads \"Exterminate all the brutes!\" (Conrad 83).\n\nAt Kurtz's station Marlow sees a man on the riverbank waving his arm, urging them to land. The pilgrims, heavily armed, escort the manager on to the shore to retrieve Mr. Kurtz. The man from the bank boards the steamboat, and turns out to be a Russian wanderer who had happened to stray into Kurtz's camp. He explains that he had left the wood and the note at the abandoned hut. Through conversation Marlow discovers just how wanton Kurtz can be; how the natives worship him; and how very ill he has been of late. The Russian admires Kurtz for his intellect and his insights into love, life, and justice, and suggests that he is a poet. He tells of how Kurtz opened his mind, and seems to admire him even for his power—and for his willingness to use it. Marlow, on the other hand, suggests that Kurtz has gone mad.\n\nFrom the steamboat, Marlow observes the station in detail and is surprised to see near the station house a row of posts topped with the severed heads of natives. Around the corner of the house, the manager appears with the pilgrims, bearing a gaunt and ghost-like Kurtz on an improvised stretcher. The area fills with natives, apparently ready for battle, but Kurtz shouts something from the stretcher, and the natives retreat into the forest. The pilgrims carry Kurtz to the steamer and lay him in one of the cabins, where he and the manager have a private conversation. Marlow watches a beautiful native woman walk in measured steps along the shore and stop next to the steamer. When the manager exits the cabin he pulls Marlow aside and tells him that Kurtz has harmed the Company's business in the region, that his methods are \"unsound\". Later, the Russian reveals that Kurtz believes the Company wants to remove him from the station and kill him, and Marlow confirms that hangings had been discussed.\nAfter midnight, Marlow discovers that Kurtz has left his cabin on the steamer and returned to shore. He goes ashore and finds a very weak Kurtz crawling his way back to the station house, though not too weak to call to the natives for help. Marlow threatens to harm Kurtz if he raises an alarm, but Kurtz only laments that he had not accomplished more in the region. The next day they prepare for their journey back down the river. The natives, including the ornately dressed woman, once again assemble on shore and begin to shout unintelligibly. Noticing the pilgrims readying their rifles, Marlow sounds the steam whistle repeatedly to scatter the crowd of natives. Only the woman remains unmoved, with outstretched arms. The pilgrims open fire as the current carries them swiftly downstream.\n\nKurtz's health worsens on the return trip, and Marlow himself becomes increasingly ill. The steamboat breaks down and, while it is stopped for repairs, Kurtz gives Marlow a packet of papers, including his commissioned report and a photograph, telling him to keep them away from the manager. When Marlow next speaks with him, Kurtz is near death; as he dies, Marlow hears him weakly whisper: \"The horror! The horror!\" (Conrad 116). A short while later, the \"manager's boy\" announces to the rest of the crew, in a scathing tone, \"Mistah Kurtz—he dead\" (Conrad 117). The next day Marlow pays little attention to the pilgrims as they bury \"something\" in a muddy hole (Conrad 117). He falls very ill, himself near death.\n\nUpon his return to Europe, Marlow is embittered and contemptuous of the \"civilised\" world. Many callers come to retrieve the papers Kurtz had entrusted to him, but Marlow withholds them or offers papers he knows they have no interest in. He then gives Kurtz's report to a journalist, for publication if he sees fit. Finally Marlow is left with some personal letters and a photograph of Kurtz's fiancée, whom Kurtz referred to as \"My Intended\" (Conrad 79). When Marlow visits her, she is dressed in black and still deep in mourning, although it has been more than a year since Kurtz's death. She presses Marlow for information, asking him to repeat Kurtz's final words. Uncomfortable, Marlow lies and tells her that Kurtz's final word was her name.\n\nLiterary critic Harold Bloom wrote that \"Heart of Darkness\" had been analysed more than any other work of literature that is studied in universities and colleges, which he attributed to Conrad's \"unique propensity for ambiguity\". However, it was not a big success during Conrad's life. When it was published as a single volume in 1902 with two more novellas, \"Youth\" and \"The End of the Tether\", it received the least commentary from critics. F. R. Leavis referred to \"Heart of Darkness\" as a \"minor work\" and criticised its \"adjectival insistence upon inexpressible and incomprehensible mystery\". Conrad himself did not consider it to be particularly notable. By the 1960s, though, it was a standard assignment in many college and high school English courses.\n\nIn \"King Leopold's Ghost\" (1998), Adam Hochschild wrote that literary scholars have made too much of the psychological aspects of \"Heart of Darkness\", while paying scant attention to Conrad's accurate recounting of the horror arising from the methods and effects of colonialism in the Congo Free State. \"\"Heart of Darkness\" is experience ... pushed a little (and only very little) beyond the actual facts of the case.\" Other critiques include Hugh Curtler's \"Achebe on Conrad: Racism and Greatness in Heart of Darkness\" (1997). Moving beyond ideology critique, French philosopher Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe called \"Heart of Darkness\" \"one of the greatest texts of Western literature\" and used Conrad's tale for a reflection on \"The Horror of the West\".\n\n\"Heart of Darkness\" is criticised in postcolonial studies, particularly by Nigerian novelist Chinua Achebe. In his 1975 public lecture \"An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's Heart of Darkness\", Achebe described Conrad's novella as \"an offensive and deplorable book\" that de-humanised Africans. Achebe argued that Conrad, \"blinkered ... with xenophobia\", incorrectly depicted Africa as the antithesis of Europe and civilisation, ignoring the artistic accomplishments of the Fang people who lived in the Congo River basin at the time of the book's publication. He argued that the book promoted and continues to promote a prejudiced image of Africa that \"depersonalises a portion of the human race\", and concluded that it should not be considered a great work of art.\n\nZimbabwean scholar Rino Zhuwarara broadly agreed with Achebe, though considered it important to be \"sensitised to how peoples of other nations perceive Africa\". In 2003, Botswanan scholar Peter Mwikisa concluded the book was \"the great lost opportunity to depict dialogue between Africa and Europe.\" In 1983, British academic Cedric Watts criticized Achebe's apparent assertion that only black people may accurately analyse and assess the novella. Stan Galloway writes, in a comparison of \"Heart of Darkness\" with \" Jungle Tales of Tarzan\", \"The inhabitants [of both works], whether antagonists or compatriots, were clearly imaginary and meant to represent a particular fictive cipher and not a particular African people.\"\n\nNovelist Caryl Phillips stated in 2003 that: \"Achebe is right; to the African reader the price of Conrad's eloquent denunciation of colonisation is the recycling of racist notions of the 'dark' continent and her people. Those of us who are not from Africa may be prepared to pay this price, but this price is far too high for Achebe.\" More recent critics have stressed that the \"continuities\" between Conrad and Achebe are profound and that a form of \"postcolonial mimesis\" ties the two authors.\n\nOrson Welles adapted and starred in \"Heart of Darkness\" in a CBS Radio broadcast on 6 November 1938 as part of his series, \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\". In 1939 Welles adapted the story for his first film for RKO Pictures, writing a screenplay with John Houseman. It was intended to be entirely filmed as a POV from Marlow's eyes. Welles even filmed a short presentation film illustrating his intent. It has been reported as lost to history. The project was never realised; one reason given was the loss of European markets after the outbreak of war. Welles still hoped to produce the film when he presented another radio adaptation of the story as his first program as producer-star of the CBS radio series \"This Is My Best\". Welles scholar Bret Wood called the broadcast of 13 March 1945, \"the closest representation of the film Welles might have made, crippled, of course, by the absence of the story's visual elements (which were so meticulously designed) and the half-hour length of the broadcast.\"\n\nIn 1991, Australian author and playwright Larry Buttrose wrote and staged a theatrical production of \"Kurtz\" (based on \"Heart of Darkness\") with the Crossroads Theatre Company, Sydney. The play was announced to be broadcast as a radio play to Australian radio audiences in August 2011 by the Vision Australia Radio Network, and also by the RPH – Radio Print Handicapped Network across Australia.\n\nIn 2011, an operatic adaptation by composer Tarik O'Regan and librettist Tom Phillips was premiered at the Linbury Theatre of the Royal Opera House in London. A suite for orchestra and narrator was subsequently extrapolated from it.\n\nIn 2015, an adaption of Orson Welles' screenplay by Jamie Lloyd and Laurence Bowen was aired on BBC Radio 4. The production starred James McAvoy as Marlow.\n\nThe CBS television anthology \"Playhouse 90\" aired a 90-minute loose adaptation in 1958. This version, written by Stewart Stern, uses the encounter between Marlow (Roddy McDowall) and Kurtz (Boris Karloff) as its final act, and adds a backstory in which Marlow had been Kurtz's adopted son. The cast includes Inga Swenson and Eartha Kitt.\n\nThe most famous adaptation is Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 motion picture \"Apocalypse Now\" based on the screenplay by John Milius, which moves the story from the Congo to Vietnam and Cambodia during the Vietnam War. In \"Apocalypse Now\", Martin Sheen plays Captain Benjamin L. Willard, a US Army Captain assigned to \"terminate the command\" of Colonel Walter E. Kurtz. Marlon Brando played Kurtz, in one of his most famous roles. A production documentary of the film, titled \"\", exposed some of the major difficulties which director Coppola faced in seeing the movie through to completion. The difficulties that Coppola and his crew faced mirrored some of the themes of the book.\n\nOn 13 March 1993 TNT aired a new version of the story directed by Nicolas Roeg, starring Tim Roth as Marlow and John Malkovich as Kurtz.\n\nThe video game \"Far Cry 2,\" released on 21 October 2008, is a loose modernised adaptation of \"Heart of Darkness\". The player assumes the role of a mercenary operating in Africa whose task it is to kill an arms dealer, the elusive \"Jackal\". The last area of the game is called 'The Heart of Darkness'.\n\nThe video game \",\" released on 26 June 2012, is a direct modernised adaptation of \"Heart of Darkness\". The player assumes the role of special-ops agent Martin Walker as he and his team search Dubai for survivors in the aftermath of catastrophic sandstorms that left the city without contact to the outside world. The character John Konrad, who replaces the character Kurtz, is a reference to the author of the novella.\n\n\"Victoria II\", a grand strategy game produced by Paradox Interactive, launched an expansion pack titled \"Heart of Darkness\" on 16 April 2013, which revamped the game's colonial system, and naval warfare.\n\nThe novel \"Hearts of Darkness\", by Paul Lawrence, moves the events of the novel to England in 1666. Marlow's journey into the jungle is reimagined as the journey of the narrator, Harry Lytle, and his friend Davy Dowling out of London and towards Shyam, a plague-stricken town that has descended into cruelty and barbarism loosely modelled on real-life Eyam. While Marlow must return to civilisation with Kurtz, Lytle and Dowling are searching for the spy James Josselin. Like Kurtz, Josselin's reputation is immense, and the protagonists are well-acquainted with his accomplishments by the time they finally meet him.\n\nPoet Yedda Morrison's 2012 book \"Darkness\" erases Conrad's novella, \"whiting out\" his text so that only images of the natural world remain.\n\nJames Reich's \"Mistah Kurtz! A Prelude to Heart of Darkness\" presents the early life of Kurtz, his appointment to his station in the Congo, and his messianic disintegration in a novel that dovetails with the conclusion of Conrad's novella. Reich's novel is premised upon the papers Kurtz leaves to Marlow at the end of \"Heart of Darkness.\"\n\nIn Josef Škvorecký's novel \"The Engineer of Human Souls\" Kurtz is seen as the epitome of exterminatory colonialism, and here and elsewhere Škvorecký emphasises the importance of Conrad's concern with Russian imperialism in Eastern Europe.\n\nT. S. Eliot wrote \"Mistah Kurtz—he dead\" at the beginning of the poem \"The Hollow Men\", quoting the \"manager's boy\" when he announced the death of Kurtz to the crew.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52817844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52817844", "title": "India Government Mint, Hyderabad", "text": "India Government Mint, Hyderabad\n\nIndia Government Mint, Hyderabad is one of the four mints in India. Based in Cherlapally, Secunderabad (twin city of Hyderabad) in the Indian state of Telangana, the mint was originally established in 1803 AD as the \"Royal Mint\" to serve as the mint for the Nizam of Hyderabad. The mint was founded by Mir Akbar Ali Khan Sikander Jah, Asaf Jah III and was originally situated at Sultan Sahi in Moghalpura suburb of Hyderabad city. In 1950, the mint was taken over by the Government of India, and in 1997 it was shifted to its present location at Cherlapally in Secunderabad. Indian 1, 2, 5 and 10 rupee coins are produced in this mint.\n\nTill early 19th century, mints were privately operated by wealthy businessmen (Sahus, Jagirdars and Omaras) in India. Licenses for minting coins were obtained by paying fees to the exchequer. The mints used to produce coins with the name of Emperor in Delhi. \"FIDVI\", \"QITAAB\" (title) and lettering \"Yar-E-Wafadar\" (trusted follower) were added to the coins.\n\nIndia Government Mint, Hyderabad was established in 1803 AD by Mir Akbar Ali Khan Sikander Jah, Asaf Jah III as a private mint and along with other private mints in the country. The mint produced Indian coins in the name of Emperor of India. Initially the mint was situated at Sultan Sahi in Moghalpura suburb of the Hyderabad city. The dies were made of steel but the private mints did not have a master die. The dies hence differed in size, production of coins was crude with only partial inscription appearing on coins frequently.\n\nWith the end of the Mughal empire in 1858 AD, all private mints (except Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai) were abolished. Coins produced thereafter ceased to carry the name of \"Emperor of India\". Instead, coins produced in the \"Hyderabad Royal Mint\" were inscribed with name of the dynasty, initials of Nizam of Hyderabad and the numeral 92 (of Islamic religious significance; represents sum of symbolic numbers of the letters in Prophets and messengers in Islam). These coins were called \"Halli Sicca\" coins (current coins). In 1985 AD, use of machinery was introduced in coin making and the machine made coins were called \"Charkhi coins\" (Charkhi means \"wheel\" in Hindi).\n\nOn 13 July 1903, a new mint was established in Saifabad, Hyderabad and the operations were shifted to the new location. In 1950, post \"Federal Financial Integration\", the mint was over-taken by the Government of India.\n\nThe Hyderabad mint operated in Saifabad from 1950 to 1997. On 20 August 1997, the mint was shifted to its present location at Cherlapally in the city of Secunderabad, India. The facility was established with annual production capacity of 700 million coins and 950 million planchets.\n\nIndia Government Mint in Hyderabad has been operating at the same location since 1997. As a result of the corporatisation, from 13 January 2006 the mint is functioning as one of the units of the Security Printing & Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL).\n\nSince 13 January 2006, the India Government Mint, Hyderabad functions as one of the units of the \"Security Printing & Minting Corporation of India Limited\". The mint is headed by a \"general manager\".\n\nCoins minted at the India Government Mint, Hyderabad carries the mint mark of a \"five-pointed star\" (*), symbolising that the coin was produced in the Hyderabad mint.\n\nThe India Government Mint in Hyderabad was planned with an estimated annual production capacity of annual production capacity of 700 million coins and 950 million planchets. Indian rupee coins (1, 2, 5 & 10) are produced in this mint.\n"}
{"id": "71246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71246", "title": "Lewis chessmen", "text": "Lewis chessmen\n\nThe Lewis chessmen (; ; ) or Uig chessmen, named after the bay where they were found, are a group of distinctive 12th-century chess pieces, along with other game pieces, most of which are carved from walrus ivory. Discovered in 1831 on Lewis in the Outer Hebrides, Scotland, they may constitute some of the few complete, surviving medieval chess sets, although it is not clear if a set as originally made can be assembled from the pieces. When found, the hoard contained 93 artifacts: 78 chess pieces, 14 tablemen and one belt buckle. Today, 82 pieces are owned and usually exhibited by the British Museum in London, and the remaining 11 are at the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh.\n\nThe British Museum claims the chessmen were probably made in Trondheim, Norway, in the 12th century, although some scholars have suggested other Nordic countries.\nDuring that period, the Outer Hebrides, along with other major groups of Scottish islands, were ruled by Norway.\n\nAccording to Dr. Alex Woolf, director of the University of St Andrews Institute for Medieval Studies, there are reasons for believing the pieces came from Trondheim:\n\nIcelanders Gudmundur Thorarinsson and Einar Einarsson have proposed that the chessmen originated in Iceland, since only in Iceland were the bishops called that at that time, while in other countries they used a name unassociated with the church. They further claim that the pieces were carved by an artist known as Margret the Adroit. However, this is disputed by Woolf, who stated that the use of bishops originated in England, and by Norwegian chess historian and member of the Ken Whyld Association Morten Lilleøren.\n\nSome historians believe that the Lewis chessmen were hidden (or lost) after some mishap occurred during their carriage from Norway to wealthy Norse towns on the east coast of Ireland, such as Dublin. The large number of pieces and their lack of wear may suggest that they were the stock of a trader or dealer. Along with the chess pieces, there were 14 plain round tablemen for the game of tables and one belt buckle, all made of ivory, making a total of 93 artifacts.\n\nAlmost all of the pieces in the collection are carved from walrus ivory, with a few made instead from whale teeth. The 78 pieces consist of eight kings, eight queens, 16 bishops, 15 knights, 12 rooks and 19 pawns. The heights of the pawns range from 3.5 to 5.8 cm, while the other pieces are between 7 and 10.2 cm. Although there are 19 pawns (a complete set requires 16), they have the greatest range of sizes of all the pieces, which has suggested that the 78 pieces might belong to at least five sets. All the pieces are sculptures of human figures, with the exception of the pawns, which are smaller, geometric shapes. The knights are mounted on rather diminutive horses and are shown holding spears and shields. The rooks are standing soldiers or warders holding shields and swords; four of the rooks are shown as wild-eyed berserkers biting their shields with battle fury. Some pieces bore traces of red stain when found, indicating that red and white were used to distinguish the two sides, rather than the black and white used in modern chess.\nScholars have observed that, to the modern eye, the figural pieces, with their bulging eyes and glum expressions, have a distinct comical character. This is especially true of the single rook with a worried, sideways glance (front right of first image below, next to queen) and the berserkers biting their shields, which have been called \"irresistibly comic to a modern audience\". It is believed, however, that the comic or sad expressions were not intended or perceived as such by the makers, to whom these images instead displayed strength, ferocity or, in the case of the queens who hold their heads with a hand and seemingly pensive expression, \"contemplation, repose and possibly wisdom\".\n\nThe chessmen were discovered in early 1831 in a sand bank at the head of Camas Uig on the west coast of the Isle of Lewis, in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland. There are various local stories concerning their arrival and modern discovery on Lewis.\n\nMalcolm \"Sprot\" MacLeod () from the nearby township of Pennydonald discovered the trove in a small stone kist in a dune, exhibited them briefly in his byre and sold them on to Captain Roderick Ryrie. One reported detail, that it was a cow that actually unearthed the stash, is generally discounted in Uig as fabrication. After the Isle of Lewis was purchased by Sir James Matheson in 1844, Malcolm Macleod and his family were evicted and the district was transformed into sheep farms.\n\nThey were exhibited by Ryrie at a meeting of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, on 11 April 1831. The chessmen were soon after split up, with 10 being purchased by Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe and the others (67 chessmen and 14 tablemen) purchased on behalf of the British Museum in London.\n\nKirkpatrick Sharpe later found another bishop to take his collection up to eleven, all of which were later sold to Lord Londesborough. In 1888, they were again sold, but this time the purchaser was the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, who donated the pieces to the Royal Scottish Museum in Edinburgh. The eleven are now on display in the National Museum of Scotland.\n\nOf the pieces given to the British Museum, most can be found in Room 40, with the registration numbers M&ME 1831, 11–1.78–159. Others have been lent to Scottish museums and temporary exhibitions. A range of wooden or plastic replicas are popular items in the Museum shops.\n\nThe chessmen were number 5 in the list of British archaeological finds selected by experts at the British Museum for the 2003 BBC Television documentary \"Our Top Ten Treasures\", presented by Adam Hart-Davis. They feature in the 2010 BBC Radio 4 series \"A History of the World in 100 Objects\" as number 61, in the \"Status Symbols\" section.\n\nAn exhibition entitled \"The Lewis Chessmen: Unmasked\", which includes chesspieces from both the National Museum of Scotland and British Museum collections, along with other relevant objects, toured Scotland in 2010–2011. The exhibition opened in Edinburgh on 21 May 2010 and proceeded to Aberdeen, Shetland, and the Museum nan Eilean in Stornoway, opening there on 15 April 2011.\n\nAn exhibition entitled \"The Game of Kings: Medieval Ivory Chessmen from the Isle of Lewis\" at The Cloisters in New York City included 34 of the chess pieces, all on loan from the British Museum. The exhibit ended on 22 April 2012.\n\nOn 3 April 2013, £1.8 million from the European Regional Development Fund was granted to transform Lews Castle, on the Isle of Lewis, into a Museum for the Western Isles. Around £14 million in total is to be spent on restoring and converting the property, which has been shut for almost twenty-five years. When completed the permanent displays will include six of the Lewis Chessmen.\n\nIn 2007–2008 a dispute arose regarding the most appropriate place to display the pieces. The issue first arose late in 2007 with calls from Scottish National Party (SNP) politicians in the Western Isles (notably Councillor Annie Macdonald, MSP Alasdair Allan and MP Angus MacNeil) for the return of the pieces to the place they were found. Linda Fabiani, the Scottish Minister for Europe, External Affairs and Culture, stated that \"it is unacceptable that only 11 Lewis Chessmen rest at the National Museum of Scotland while the other 67 (as well as the 14 tablemen) remain in the British Museum in London.\"\n\nRichard Oram, Professor of Medieval and Environmental History at the University of Stirling, agreed, arguing that there was no reason for there to be more than \"a sample\" of the collection in London. Both points of view have been dismissed by Margaret Hodge, the UK Minister of State in the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, writing \"It's a lot of nonsense, isn't it?\" The local historical society in Uig, \"Comann Eachdraidh Uig\", which operates a registered museum near the find site featuring detailed information about the chessmen and Norse occupation in Lewis, has indicated publicly that it has no intention of pursuing any claim to the ownership of the pieces and does not support demands for them to be sent to Edinburgh, but would welcome short-term loans.\n\nIn October 2009, twenty-four of the pieces from London and six from Edinburgh began a 16-month tour of various locations in Scotland. The tour was partly funded by the Scottish Government, and Mike Russell, the Minister for Culture and External Affairs, stated that the Government and the British Museum had \"agreed to disagree\" on their eventual fate. Bonnie Greer, the museum's deputy chairman, said that she \"absolutely\" believed the main collection should remain in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11734518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11734518", "title": "List of science museums", "text": "List of science museums\n\nBelow is the list of science museums all over the world. See Science museum for definitions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRussia has over 250 science and technology museums.\nSome include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(listed by province)\"\n\nFor all categorized science museums in Canada, see: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1680919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1680919", "title": "Lucus", "text": "Lucus\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, a lucus is a sacred grove.\n\n\"Lucus\" was one of four Latin words meaning in general \"forest, woodland, grove\" (along with \"nemus\", \"silva\", and \"saltus\"), but unlike the others it was primarily used as a religious designation. Servius defines the \"lucus\" as \"a large number of trees with a religious significance,\" as distinguished from the \"silva\", a natural forest, and a \"nemus\", an arboretum that is not consecrated. A \"saltus\" usually implied a wilderness area with varied topographical features.\n\nA \"lucus\" was a cultivated place, more like a wooded park than a forest, and might contain an \"aedes\", a building that housed the image of a god, or other landscaped features that facilitated or gave rise to ritual. It has been conjectured, for instance, that the Lupercal, referred to as a \"cave,\" was a small \"lucus\" with an artificial grotto, since archaeology has uncovered no natural cave in the area.\n\nApuleius records that \"when pious travelers happen to pass by a sacred grove \"(lucus)\" or a cult place on their way, they are used to make a vow \"(votum)\", or a fruit offering, or to sit down for a while.\" What the Romans understood by \"religio\" lay in these ritual gestures, and not in contemplation.\n\nSome ancient sources as well as modern etymologists derive the word \"from a letting in of light\" \"(a lucendo)\"; that is, the \"lucus\" was the clearing encompassed by trees. The Old High German cognate \"lôh\" also means \"clearing, holy grove.\" \"Lucus\" appears to have been understood in this sense in early medieval literature; until the 10th century, it is regularly translated into OHG as \"harug\", a word never used for the secular \"silva\". Servius, however, somewhat perversely says that a \"lucus\" is so called because \"non luceat\", \"it is not illuminated,\" perhaps implying that a proper sacred grove hosted only legitimate daytime ceremonies and not dubious nocturnal rites that required torchlight.\n\nIn his book \"On Agriculture\", Cato records a Roman ritual \"lucum conlucare\", \"to clear a clearing.\" The officiant is instructed to offer a pig as a \"piaculum\", a propitiation or expiatory offering made in advance of the potential wrong committed against the grove through human agency. The following words are to be formulated \"(verba concipito)\" for the particular site:\n\nWhether thou be god or goddess \"(si deus, si dea)\" to whom this grove is dedicated, as it is thy right to receive a sacrifice of a pig for the thinning of this sacred grove, and to this intent, whether I or one at my bidding do it, may it be rightly done. To this end, in offering this pig to thee I humbly beg that thou wilt be gracious and merciful to me, to my house and household, and to my children. Wilt thou deign to receive this pig which I offer thee to this end.\nThe word \"piaculum\" is repeated three times in the prayer, emphasizing that the sacrifice of the pig is not a freewill offering, but something owed to the deity by right \"(ius)\". The \"piaculum\" compensates the deity for a transgression or offense, and differs from a regular sacrifice offered in the hope of procuring favor in return \"(do ut des)\".\n\nIt is tempting, but misleading, to read ecological principles into ritualized agriculture; for the early Romans, respect was the partner of fear in their regard for the divine forces in nature, and the open invocation with which this prayer begins is a contractual \"out\" or hedge. The \"piaculum\" was a guarantee that the action of clearing was valid. Thoreau nonetheless made admiring reference to Cato's prayer in \"Walden\": \"I would that our farmers when they cut down a forest felt some of that awe which old Romans did when they came to thin, or let in the light to, a consecrated grove \"(lucum conlucare)\".\"\n\nThe Lucaria (\"Grove Festival\") was held on July 19 and 21, according to the \"Fasti Amiterni\", a calendar dating from the reign of Tiberius found at Amiternum (now S. Vittorino) in Sabine territory.\n\nA \"lucus\" might become such a focus of activity that a community grew up around it, as was the case with the \"Lucus Augusti\" that is now Lugo in Spain and the \"Lucus Feroniae\" near Capena. \"Lucus\" is therefore part of the Latin name of several different ancient places in the Roman Empire from which the modern name derives, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26318025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26318025", "title": "Luksong baka", "text": "Luksong baka\n\nLuksong baka () is a traditional Filipino game that originated from Bulacan. It involves a minimum of 3 players and a maximum of 10 players and involves them jumping over the person called the \"baka\", the main goal of the players is to successfully jump over the \"baka\" without touching or falling over the \"baka\".\n\n At the start of the game, there should be one player that should be called \"taya\" (it), or in this game the \"bakang lala\" (cow).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9617641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9617641", "title": "Maya blue", "text": "Maya blue\n\nMaya blue () is a unique bright azure blue pigment manufactured by cultures of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, such as the Maya and Aztec.\n\nThe Maya blue pigment is a composite of organic and inorganic constituents, primarily indigo dyes derived from the leaves of \"añil\" (\"Indigofera suffruticosa\") plants combined with palygorskite, a natural clay which, mysteriously, is not known to exist in abundant deposits in Mesoamerica. Smaller trace amounts of other mineral additives have also been identified.\n\nMaya blue first appeared around 800, and it was still used in the 16th century in several Convents of Colonial Mexico, notably in the paintings of the Indian Juan Gerson in Tecamachalco. These paintings are a clear example of the combination of Indian and European techniques sometimes known as \"Arte Indocristiano\". After that, the techniques for its production were lost in Mexico, but in Cuba there are examples from as late as 1830.\n\nDespite time and the harsh weathering conditions, paintings colored by Maya blue have not faded over time. More remarkably, the color has resisted chemical solvents and acids such as nitric acid. Recently, its resistance against chemical aggression (acids, alkalis, solvents, etc.) and biodegradation was tested, and it was shown that Maya blue is an extremely resistant pigment, but it can be destroyed using very intense acid treatment under reflux.\n\nThe chemical composition of the compound was determined by powder diffraction in the 1950s and was found to be a composite of palygorskite and indigo, most likely derived from the leaves of the \"añil\". An actual recipe to reproduce Maya blue pigment was published in 1993 by a Mexican historian and chemist, Constantino Reyes-Valerio. The combination of different clays (palygorskite and montmorillonite), together with the use of the leaves of the \"añil\" and the actual process is described in his paper. Reyes-Valerio's contributions were possibly due to his combined background of history and chemistry, through a thorough revision of primary texts (Sahagun, Hernandez, Jimenez, and others), microscopic analysis of the mural paintings and fourier transform infrared spectroscopy.\n\nAfter the formula for the production was published in the book \"De Bonampak al Templo Mayor: Historia del Azul Maya en Mesoamerica\", many developments in the chemical analysis of the pigment occurred in collaborations between Reyes-Valerio and European scientists.\n\nA comprehensive study on the pigment which describes history, the experimental study techniques (diffraction studies, infrared spectroscopies, Raman amplification, optical spectroscopies, voltammetry, nuclear magnetic resonance, and computer modelling), the syntheses, properties and nature of Maya blue and the research in relation with the archaeological and historical contexts has been published in the journal \"Developments in Clay Science\".\n\nPre-Columbian American culture\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "14602473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14602473", "title": "Metal Head", "text": "Metal Head\n\nMetal Head is a 3D first-person shooter mecha simulation video game developed and published by Sega, and released in 1995 for the Genesis/Mega Drive's 32X add-on, allowing for fully texture-mapped polygons.\n\nFive years after the 'World Federation' was established strife and war are still on the rise. In order to keep the peace the Federation Armed Forces, part of the Federation Police, build fully armed, bipedal Mechs also known as 'Metal Heads'. The Metal Head's success causes a heavy militarization of the countries of the Federation.\n\nA sudden and chaotic revolution led by terrorists, armed with their own fully armed Mechs, breaks out and the terrorists take control of a whole country. The player character (in a Metal Head) is sent in with his team to liberate the country's capital.\n\nThe player character starts in a small border town and works his way in to reach the capital.\n\nThe game's North American box states \"1 or 2 Players\", but Sega has confirmed that this was a typographical error and that \"Metal Head\" is single player only.\n\nMetal Head's levels are broken down into missions, though most of the missions are to destroy all of the enemies in that particular area using the Mech's various projectile weapons. The time the user have remaining for each mission will count down and is displayed below the power gauge health bar. Before each mission a talking head appears of presumably one of the superior commanders in the Federation Armed Forces/Federation Police, and will instruct the user of the objective of the mission, which includes full voice-acting. A summary of the current mission will also appear when the game is paused.\n\nDesigned for Sega's 6-button controller, the games uses a first-person view looking through the windshield of one of the game's 'Metal Head' mechs. Below the screen is a control panel displaying the remaining health status, represented by a power-gauge and a percentage number, the time the user has remaining for the mission, the weapon the user is currently accessing and a screen displaying various other information for what is required (i.e. a 'miss' when the user does not hit an enemy target).\n\nIn the top-right of the quadrant of the screen is a map of the level. The user's vehicle is represented as a triangle and remaining enemies' vehicles are represented as pulsating circles, which allows navigation throughout each level.\n\n\"Metal Head\" received mixed reviews. The four reviewers of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" panned the game, with their main criticism being that the gameplay is boring. Manny LaMancha of \"GamePro\" instead focused his criticisms on the graphics and sound, calling the digitized talking heads \"laughable\" and complaining of the rasping quality of the audio. He remarked that the missions are varied but ultimately boil down to the same actions, and summarized the game as \"a promising programming experiment not taken to fruition.\" A reviewer for \"Next Generation\" said that the game looks good in screenshots but suffers from slow pacing, glitchy graphics, awful control, pop-up, a poorly designed change-view feature, and clunky combat.\n\n"}
{"id": "44273441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44273441", "title": "Ministry of Education and Culture (Indonesia)", "text": "Ministry of Education and Culture (Indonesia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Culture (Kemdikbud; ) is a government ministry which organises early childhood education, elementary education, secondary education and community education affairs and the management of culture within the Indonesian government. The ministry formerly organised higher education affairs until the presidency of Joko Widodo, when higher education affairs were transferred to the Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education.\n\nThe ministry was first named the Ministry of Teaching (Indonesian: Kementerian Pengajaran), and the first person who held the position of minister was Ki Hadjar Dewantara.\n\nSince July 2016, Muhadjir Effendy has served as the Minister of Education and Culture, succeeding Anies Baswedan.\n\nThe ministry organisations consists of:\n\n"}
{"id": "21023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21023", "title": "Mormonism", "text": "Mormonism\n\nMormonism is the predominant religious tradition of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity started by Joseph Smith in Western New York in the 1820s and 30s. After Smith was killed in 1844, most Mormons followed Brigham Young on his westward journey to the area that became the Utah Territory, calling themselves The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Other sects include Mormon fundamentalism, which seeks to maintain practices and doctrines such as polygamy, and various other small independent denominations. The second-largest Latter Day Saint denomination, the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, since 2001 called the Community of Christ, does not describe itself as \"Mormon\", but instead follows a Trinitarian Christian restorationist theology, and also considers itself Restorationist in terms of Latter Day Saint doctrine.\n\nThe word \"Mormon\" originally derived from the Book of Mormon, a religious text published by Smith, which he said he translated from golden plates with divine assistance. The book describes itself as a chronicle of early indigenous peoples of the Americas and their dealings with God. Based on the name of that book, early followers of Smith were more widely known as \"Mormons\", and their faith was called \"Mormonism\". The term was initially considered pejorative, but Mormons no longer consider it so (although generally preferring other terms such as Latter-day Saint, or LDS).\n\nMormonism shares a common set of beliefs with the rest of the Latter Day Saint movement, including use of and belief in the Bible, as well as in other religious texts including the Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. It also accepts the Pearl of Great Price as part of its scriptural canon, and has a history of teaching eternal marriage, eternal progression, and polygamy (plural marriage) (although the LDS Church formally abandoned the practice of plural marriage in 1890). Cultural Mormonism, a lifestyle promoted by Mormon institutions, includes cultural Mormons who identify with the culture, but not necessarily with the theology.\n\nMormonism originated in the 1820s in western New York during a period of religious excitement known as the Second Great Awakening. After praying about which denomination he should join, Joseph Smith, Jr. said he received a vision in the spring of 1820. Called the \"First Vision\", Smith claimed God the Father instructed him to join none of the existing churches because they were all wrong. During the 1820s Smith reported several angelic visitations, and was eventually told that God would use him to re-establish the true Christian church, and that the Book of Mormon would be the means of establishing correct doctrine for the restored church. Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and other early followers, began baptizing new converts in 1829. Formally organized in 1830 as the Church of Christ. Smith was seen by his followers as a modern-day prophet.\n\nJoseph Smith claimed the Book of Mormon was translated from writing on golden plates in a reformed Egyptian language, translated with the assistance of the Urim and Thummim and seer stones. Both the special spectacles and the seer stone were at times referred to as the \"Urim and Thummim\". He said an angel first showed him the location of the plates in 1823, buried in a nearby hill, but he was not allowed to take the plates until 1827. Smith began dictating the text of The Book of Mormon around the fall of 1827 until the summer of 1828 when 116 pages were lost. Translation began again in April 1829 and finished in June 1829, saying that he translated it \"by the gift and power of God\". After the translation was completed, Smith said the plates were returned to the angel. During Smith's supposed possession, very few people were allowed to \"witness\" the plates.\n\nThe book described itself as a chronicle of an early Israelite diaspora, integrating with the pre-existing indigenous peoples of the Americas, written by a people called the Nephites. According to The Book of Mormon, Lehi's family left Jerusalem at the urging of God c. 600 BC, and later sailed to the Americas c. 589 BC. The Nephites are described as descendants of Nephi, the fourth son of the prophet Lehi. The Nephites are portrayed as having a belief in Christ hundreds of years before his birth. Historical accuracy and veracity of the Book of Mormon was and continues to be hotly contested. No archaeological, linguistic, or other evidence of the use of Egyptian writing in ancient America has been discovered.\n\nTo avoid confrontation with New York residents, the members moved to Kirtland, Ohio, and hoped to establish a permanent New Jerusalem or City of Zion in Jackson County, Missouri. However, they were expelled from Jackson County in 1833 and fled to other parts of Missouri in 1838. Violence between the Missourians and church members resulted in the governor of Missouri issuing an \"extermination order,\" again forcing the church to relocate. The displaced Mormons fled to Illinois, to a small town called Commerce. The church bought the town, renamed it Nauvoo, and lived with a degree of peace and prosperity for a few years. However, tensions between Mormons and non-Mormons again escalated, and in 1844 Smith was killed by a mob, precipitating a succession crisis.\n\nThe largest group of Mormons (LDS Church) accepted Brigham Young as the new prophet/leader and emigrated to what became the Utah Territory. There, the church began the open practice of plural marriage, a form of polygyny which Smith had instituted in Nauvoo. Plural marriage became the faith's most sensational characteristic during the 19th century, but vigorous opposition by the United States Congress threatened the church's existence as a legal institution. Further, polygamy was also a major cause for the opposition to Mormonism in the states of Idaho and Arizona. In the 1890 Manifesto, church president Wilford Woodruff announced the official end of plural marriage.\n\nBecause of the formal abolition of plural marriage in 1890, several smaller groups of Mormons broke with the LDS Church forming several denominations of Mormon fundamentalism. Meanwhile, the LDS Church had become a proponent of monogamy and patriotism, has extended its reach internationally by a vigorous missionary program, and has grown in size to a reported membership of over 15 million. The church is becoming a part of the American and international mainstream. However, it consciously and intentionally retains its identity as a \"peculiar people,\" believing their unique relationship with God helps save them from \"worldliness\" (non-spiritual influences).\n\nLike most other Christian groups, Mormonism teaches that there is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, but unlike trinitarian faiths, the LDS Church teaches that they are separate and distinct beings with the Father and Son having perfected physical bodies and the Holy Ghost having only a body of spirit. While the three beings are physically distinct, in Mormon theology they are one in thoughts, actions, and purpose and commonly referred to collectively as the \"Godhead\". Also, Mormonism teaches that God the Father is the literal father of the spirits of all men and women, which existed prior to their mortal existence. The LDS Church also believes that a Heavenly Mother exists. Further, it is believed that all humans as children of God can become exalted, inheriting all that God has, as joint-heirs with Christ, and becoming like him as a God. Lorenzo Snow is quoted as saying \"As man now is God once was: As God now is, man may be.\"\n\nMormonism describes itself as falling within world Christianity, but as a distinct restored dispensation; it characterizes itself as the only true form of the Christian religion since the time of a Great Apostasy that began not long after the ascension of Jesus Christ. According to Mormons this Apostasy involved the corruption of the pure, original Christian doctrine with Greek and other philosophies, and followers dividing into different ideological groups.\nAdditionally, Mormons claim the martyrdom of the Apostles\nled to the loss of Priesthood authority to administer the Church and its ordinances.\n\nMormons believe that God re-established the early Christian Church as found in the New Testament through Joseph Smith. In particular, Mormons believe that angels such as Peter, James, John, and John the Baptist appeared to Joseph Smith and others and bestowed various Priesthood authorities on them. Mormons thus believe that their Church is the \"only true and living church\" because divine authority was restored to it through Smith. In addition, Mormons believe that Smith and his legitimate successors are modern prophets who receive revelation from God to guide the church. They maintain that other religions have a portion of the truth and are guided by the light of Christ.\n\nSmith's cosmology is laid out mostly in Smith's later revelations and sermons, but particularly the Book of Abraham, the Book of Moses, and the King Follett discourse. Mormon cosmology presents a unique view of God and the universe, and places a high importance on human agency. In Mormonism, life on earth is just a short part of an eternal existence. Mormons believe that in the beginning, all people existed as spirits or \"intelligences,\" in the presence of God. In this state, God proposed a plan of salvation whereby they could progress and \"have a privilege to advance like himself.\" The spirits were free to accept or reject this plan, and a \"third\" of them, led by Satan rejected it. The rest accepted the plan, coming to earth and receiving bodies with an understanding that they would experience sin and suffering.\n\nIn Mormonism, the central part of God's plan is the atonement of Jesus Christ. Mormons believe that one purpose of earthly life is to learn to choose good over evil. In this process, people inevitably make mistakes, becoming unworthy to return to the presence of God. Mormons believe that Jesus paid for the sins of the world and that all people can be saved through his atonement. Mormons accept Christ's atonement through faith, repentance, formal covenants or ordinances such as baptism, and consistently trying to live a Christ-like life.\n\nAccording to Mormon scripture, the Earth's creation was not \"ex nihilo\", but organized from existing matter. The Earth is just one of many inhabited worlds, and there are many governing heavenly bodies, including the planet or star Kolob, which is said to be nearest the throne of God.\n\nIn Mormonism, an ordinance is a religious ritual of special significance, often involving the formation of a covenant with God. Ordinances are performed by the authority of the priesthood and in the name of Jesus Christ. The term has a meaning roughly similar to that of the term \"sacrament\" in other Christian denominations.\nSaving ordinances (or ordinances viewed as necessary for salvation) include: baptism by immersion after the age of accountability (normally age 8); confirmation and reception of the gift of the Holy Ghost, performed by laying hands on the head of a newly baptized member; ordination to the Aaronic and Melchizedek priesthoods for males; an endowment (including washing and anointing) received in temples; and marriage (or sealing) to a spouse.\n\nMormons also perform other ordinances, which include the Lord's supper (commonly called the sacrament), naming and blessing children, giving priesthood blessings and patriarchal blessings, anointing and blessing the sick, participating in prayer circles, and setting apart individuals who are called to church positions.\n\nIn Mormonism, the saving ordinances are seen as necessary for salvation, but they are not sufficient in and of themselves. For example, baptism is required for exaltation, but simply having been baptized does not guarantee any eternal reward. The baptized person is expected to be obedient to God's commandments, to repent of any sinful conduct subsequent to baptism, and to receive the other saving ordinances.\n\nBecause Mormons believe that everyone must receive certain ordinances to be saved, Mormons perform ordinances on behalf of deceased persons. These ordinances are performed vicariously or by \"proxy\" on behalf of the dead. In accordance with their belief in each individual's \"free agency\", living or dead, Mormons believe that the deceased may accept or reject the offered ordinance in the spirit world, just as all spirits decided to accept or reject God's plan originally. In addition, these \"conditional\" ordinances on behalf of the dead are performed only when a deceased person's genealogical information has been submitted to a temple and correctly processed there before the ordinance ritual is performed. Only ordinances for salvation are performed on behalf of deceased persons. \n\nMormons believe in the Old and New Testaments, and the LDS Church uses the King James Bible as its official scriptural text of the Bible. While Mormons believe in the general accuracy of the modern day text of the Bible, they also believe that it is incomplete and that errors have been introduced. In Mormon theology, many lost truths are restored in the Book of Mormon, which Mormons hold to be divine scripture and equal in authority to the Bible.\n\nThe Mormon scriptural canon also includes a collection of revelations and writings contained in the Doctrine and Covenants which contains doctrine and prophecy and the Pearl of Great Price which addresses briefly Genesis to Exodus. These books, as well as the Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible, have varying degrees of acceptance as divine scripture among different denominations of the Latter Day Saint movement.\n\nIn Mormonism, continuous revelation is the principle that God or his divine agents still continue to communicate to mankind. This communication can be manifest in many ways: influences of the Holy Ghost (the principal form in which this principle is manifest), visions, visitations of divine beings, and others. Joseph Smith used the example of the Lord's revelations to Moses in Deuteronomy to explain the importance of continuous revelation.\n\nMormons believe that Smith and subsequent church leaders could speak scripture \"when moved upon by the Holy Ghost.\" In addition, many Mormons believe that ancient prophets in other regions of the world received revelations that resulted in additional scriptures that have been lost and may, one day, be forthcoming. In Mormonism, revelation is not limited to church members. For instance, Latter Day Saints believe that the United States Constitution is a divinely inspired document.\n\nMormons are encouraged to develop a personal relationship with the Holy Ghost and receive personal revelation for their own direction and that of their family. The Latter Day Saint concept of revelation includes the belief that revelation from God is available to all those who earnestly seek it with the intent of doing good. It also teaches that everyone is entitled to \"personal\" revelation with respect to his or her stewardship (leadership responsibility). Thus, parents may receive inspiration from God in raising their families, individuals can receive divine inspiration to help them meet personal challenges, church officers may receive revelation for those whom they serve.\n\nThe important consequence of this is that each person may receive confirmation that particular doctrines taught by a prophet are true, as well as gain divine insight in using those truths for their own benefit and eternal progress. In the church, personal revelation is expected and encouraged, and many converts believe that personal revelation from God was instrumental in their conversion.\n\nMormonism categorizes itself within Christianity, and nearly all Mormons self-identify as Christian. For some who define Christianity within the doctrines of Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Protestantism, Mormonism's differences place it outside the umbrella of Christianity.\n\nSince its beginnings, the faith has proclaimed itself to be Christ's Church restored with its original authority, structure and power; maintaining that existing denominations believed in incorrect doctrines and were not acknowledged by God as his church and kingdom. Though the religion quickly gained a large following of Christian seekers, in the 1830s, many American Christians came to view the church's early doctrines and practices as politically and culturally subversive, as well as doctrinally heretical, abominable, and condemnable. This discord led to a series of sometimes-deadly conflicts between Mormons and others who saw themselves as orthodox Christians. Although such violence declined during the twentieth century, the religion's unique doctrinal views and practices still generate criticism, sometimes vehemently so. This gives rise to efforts by Mormons and opposing types of Christians to proselytize each other.\n\nMormons believe in Jesus Christ as the literal Son of God and Messiah, his crucifixion as a conclusion of a sin offering, and subsequent resurrection. However, Latter-day Saints (LDS) reject the ecumenical creeds and the definition of the Trinity (in contrast, the second largest Latter Day Saint denomination, the Community of Christ, is Trinitarian and monotheistic.) Mormons hold the view that the New Testament prophesied both the apostasy from the teachings of Christ and his apostles as well as the restoration of all things prior to the second coming of Christ.\n\nSome notable differences with mainstream Christianity include: A belief that Jesus began his atonement in the garden of Gethsemane and continued it to his crucifixion, rather than the orthodox belief that the crucifixion alone was the physical atonement; and an afterlife with three degrees of glory, with hell (often called spirit prison) being a temporary repository for the wicked between death and the resurrection. Additionally, Mormons do not believe in creation \"ex nihilo\", believing that matter is eternal, and creation involved God organizing existing matter.\n\nMuch of the Mormon belief system is geographically oriented around the North and South American continents. Mormons believe that the people of the Book of Mormon lived in the western hemisphere, that Christ appeared in the western hemisphere after his death and resurrection, that the true faith was restored in Upstate New York by Joseph Smith, that the Garden of Eden was located in North America, and that the New Jerusalem would be built in Missouri. For this and other reasons, including a belief by many Mormons in American exceptionalism, Molly Worthen speculates that this may be why Leo Tolstoy described Mormonism as the \"quintessential 'American religion'\".\n\nAlthough Mormons do not claim to be part of Judaism, Mormon theology claims to situate Mormonism within the context of Judaism to an extent that goes beyond what most other Christian denominations claim. The faith incorporates many Old Testament ideas into its theology, and the beliefs of Mormons sometimes parallel those of Judaism and certain elements of Jewish culture. In the earliest days of Mormonism, Joseph Smith taught that the Indigenous peoples of the Americas were members of some of the Lost Tribes of Israel. Later, he taught that Mormons were Israelites, and that they may learn of their tribal affiliation within the twelve Israelite tribes. Members of the LDS Church receive Patriarchal blessings which declare the recipient's lineage within one of the tribes of Israel. The lineage is either through true blood-line or adoption. The LDS Church teaches that if one is not a direct descendant of one of the twelve tribes, upon baptism he or she is adopted into one of the tribes. Patriarchal blessings also include personal information which is revealed through a patriarch by the power of the priesthood.\n\nThe Mormon affinity for Judaism is expressed by the many references to Judaism in the Mormon liturgy. For example, Smith named the largest Mormon settlement he founded \"Nauvoo\", which means \"to be beautiful\" in Hebrew. Brigham Young named a tributary of the Great Salt Lake the \"Jordan River\". The LDS Church created a writing scheme called the Deseret Alphabet, which was based, in part, on Hebrew. The LDS Church has a Jerusalem Center in Israel, where students focus their study on Near Eastern history, culture, language, and the Bible.\n\nThere has been some controversy involving Jewish groups who see the actions of some elements of Mormonism as offensive. In the 1990s, Jewish groups vocally opposed the LDS practice of baptism for the dead on behalf of Jewish victims of the Holocaust and Jews in general. According to LDS Church general authority Monte J. Brough, \"Mormons who baptized 380,000 Holocaust victims posthumously were motivated by love and compassion and did not understand their gesture might offend Jews... they did not realize that what they intended as a 'Christian act of service' was 'misguided and insensitive'\". Mormons believe that when the dead are baptized through proxy, they have the option of accepting or rejecting the ordinance.\n\nSince its origins in the 19th century, Mormonism has been compared to Islam, often by detractors of one religion or the other. For instance, Joseph Smith was referred to as \"the modern mahomet\" by the \"New York Herald\", shortly after his murder in June 1844. This epithet repeated a comparison that had been made from Smith's earliest career, one that was not intended at the time to be complimentary. Comparison of the Mormon and Muslim prophets still occurs today, sometimes for derogatory or polemical reasons but also for more scholarly (and neutral) purposes. While Mormonism and Islam have many similarities, there are also significant, fundamental differences between the two religions. Mormon–Muslim relations have been historically cordial; recent years have seen increasing dialogue between adherents of the two faiths, and cooperation in charitable endeavors, especially in the Middle and Far East.\n\nIslam and Mormonism both originate in the Abrahamic traditions. Each religion sees its founder (Muhammad for Islam, and Joseph Smith for Mormonism) as being a true prophet of God, called to re-establish the truths of these ancient theological belief systems that have been altered, corrupted, or lost. In addition, both prophets received visits from an angel, leading to additional books of scripture. Both religions share a high emphasis on family life, charitable giving, chastity, abstention from alcohol, and a special reverence for, though not worship of, their founding prophet. Before the 1890 Manifesto against plural marriage, Mormonism and Islam also shared in the belief in and practice of plural marriage, a practice now held in common by Islam and various branches of Mormon fundamentalism.\n\nThe religions differ significantly in their views on God. Islam insists upon the complete oneness and uniqueness of God (Allah), while Mormonism asserts that the Godhead is made up of three distinct \"personages.\"\nMormonism sees Jesus Christ as the promised Messiah and the literal Son of God, while Islam insists that the title \"Messiah\" means that Jesus (or \"Isa\") was a prophet sent to establish the true faith, not that he was the Son of God or a divine being. Despite opposition from other Christian denominations, Mormonism identifies itself as a Christian religion, the \"restoration\" of primitive Christianity. Islam does not refer to itself as \"Christian\", asserting that Jesus and all true followers of Christ's teachings were (and are) Muslims–a term that means \"submitters to God\". Islam proclaims that its prophet Muhammad was the \"seal of the prophets\", and that no further prophets would come after him. Mormons, though honoring Joseph Smith as the first prophet in modern times, see him as just one in a long line of prophets, with Jesus Christ being the premier figure of the religion.\n\nMormon theology includes three main movements. By far the largest of these is \"mainstream Mormonism\", defined by the leadership of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The two broad movements outside mainstream Mormonism are Mormon fundamentalism, and liberal reformist Mormonism.\n\nMainstream Mormonism is defined by the leadership of the LDS Church which identifies itself as Christian. Members of the LDS Church consider their top leaders to be prophets and apostles, and are encouraged to accept their positions on matters of theology, while seeking confirmation of them through personal study of the Book of Mormon and the Bible. Personal prayer is encouraged as well. The LDS Church is by far the largest branch of Mormonism. It has continuously existed since the succession crisis of 1844 that split the Latter Day Saint movement after the death of founder Joseph Smith, Jr.\n\nThe LDS Church seeks to distance itself from other branches of Mormonism, particularly those that practice polygamy.\nThe church maintains a degree of orthodoxy by excommunicating or disciplining its members who take positions or engage in practices viewed as apostasy. For example, the LDS Church excommunicates members who practice polygamy or who adopt the beliefs and practices of Mormon fundamentalism.\n\nOne way Mormon fundamentalism distinguishes itself from mainstream Mormonism is through the practice of plural marriage. Fundamentalists initially broke from the LDS Church after that doctrine was discontinued around the beginning of the 20th century. Mormon fundamentalism teaches that plural marriage is a requirement for exaltation (the highest degree of salvation), which will allow them to live as gods and goddesses in the afterlife. Mainstream Mormons, by contrast, believe that a single Celestial marriage is necessary for exaltation.\n\nIn distinction with the LDS Church, Mormon fundamentalists also often believe in a number of other doctrines taught and practiced by Brigham Young in the 19th century, which the LDS Church has either abandoned, repudiated, or put in abeyance. These include:\n\nMormon fundamentalists believe that these principles were wrongly abandoned or changed by the LDS Church, in large part due to the desire of its leadership and members to assimilate into mainstream American society and avoid the persecutions and conflict that had characterized the church throughout its early years. Others believe that it was a necessity at some point for \"a restoration of all things\" to be a truly restored Church.\n\nSome LDS Church members have worked towards a more liberal reform of the church. Others have left the LDS Church and still consider themselves to be cultural Mormons. Others have formed new religions (many of them now defunct). For instance the Godbeites broke away from the LDS Church in the late 19th century, on the basis of both political and religious liberalism, and in 1985 the Restoration Church of Jesus Christ broke away from the LDS Church as an LGBT-friendly denomination, which was formally dissolved in 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43248607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43248607", "title": "Race clock", "text": "Race clock\n\nA race clock (also called a display clock) is sports equipment with an alpha numeric display that typically shows the elapsed time for a race or sporting event.\n\nA race clock may be positioned at the finish line of a race or at various key intermediate locations (split points) so that athletes will know their pace. The display is typically either light emitting diodes or plastic elements that can be flipped to reveal or hide a surface painted with a bright color. The digits on a race clock vary in sizes from 6 inches to a foot in height. The clock can be either a free standing piece of equipment on a tripod or finish truss or can be incorporated into a larger scoreboard display.\n"}
{"id": "1105118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105118", "title": "Rivethead", "text": "Rivethead\n\nA rivethead or rivet head is a person associated with the industrial dance music scene. In stark contrast to the original industrial culture, whose performers and heterogeneous audience were sometimes referred to as \"industrialists\", the rivethead scene is a coherent youth culture closely linked to a discernible fashion style. The scene and its dress code emerged in the late 1980s on the basis of electro-industrial, EBM, and industrial rock music. The associated dress style draws on military fashion and punk aesthetics with hints of fetish wear, mainly inspired by the scene's musical protagonists.\n\nInitially, the term \"rivethead\" had been used since the 1940s as a nickname for North American automotive assembly line and steel construction workers and hit the mainstream through the publication of Ben Hamper's \"Rivethead: Tales From the Assembly Line\", which is otherwise unrelated to the subculture.\n\nGlenn Chase, founder of San Diego label Re-Constriction Records, is responsible for the term's meaning in the 1990s. In 1993, he released \"Rivet Head Culture\", a compilation that contains several electro-industrial and industrial rock acts from the Canadian and U.S.-American underground music scene. In the same year, industrial rock group Chemlab − whose members were close friends of Chase − had released their debut album \"Burn Out at the Hydrogen Bar\", which includes a track called \"Rivet Head\". Chemlab singer Jared Louche said he did not remember where the term came from, although he stated that this song title was in his mind for years.\n\nThe rivethead scene is remotely related but not directly connected to the industrial music culture. Industrial music is a genre of experimental and avantgardist music, intertwined with graphical visualization (mostly with disturbing graphical content). The absence of conventional song structures, such as rhythm and melody, is a main characteristic of the genre, whereas the music preferred by the rivethead scene includes several danceable and song-oriented styles that are sometimes considered \"post-industrial\". Like post-punk, the term \"post-industrial\" describes a musical genre that developed distinctly from its roots and turned into several strands of sound, namely electro-industrial, electronic body music, and industrial rock, often referred to as industrial dance music. Those styles differ from traditional industrial music regarding aesthetics, sound, and production techniques.\n\nThe rivethead dress style has been inspired by military aesthetics, complemented by fashion \"that mimics the grit and grime of industrial sectors in major metropolitan areas\"\".\" Additionally, it borrows elements of punk fashion, such as a fanned and dyed Mohawk hairstyle, and fetish wear such as black leather and PVC tops, pants and shorts (primarily worn by females), partly supplemented with modern primitive body modifications such as tattoos and piercings.\n\nOccasionally, rivetheads emphasize a post-apocalyptic, dystopian influence, often inspired by movies, e.g. \"Mad Max\" (1979), \"Escape from New York\" (1981), \"Gunhed\" (1989), \"Death Machine\" (1994), and \"Strange Days\" (1995). Several movies, such as \"Hardware\" (1990), \"Strange Days\" and \"Johnny Mnemonic\" (1995), feature music tracks by Ministry, KMFDM, Diatribe, Stabbing Westward and other bands associated with the rivethead culture. Other influences include sci-fi archetypes such as Lupus Yonderboy of the Panther Moderns and Razorgirl from the cyberpunk literature (characters from the Sprawl trilogy by William Gibson).\nBelow some basic characteristics of the rivethead dress style. As a divergence from the extravagance of youth cultures such as New Romantic, goth, cyber, and steampunk, the idea is to make a statement with as few fashion components as possible. The rivethead look commonly is unadorned and epitomizes a direct reflection of the social environment (\"street survival wear\").\n\n\nRivetgirls may dress along with the \"femme fatale\" look: sexuality as power. Common are fetish wear, such as black PVC and leather corsages, miniskirts, ankle-deep or knee-high stiletto heel boots; less makeup than Goths and 1980s New Wave fashion girls, who were also an influence on the late-1980s/early 1990s rivetgirl style (cf. fishnet tights, stilettos, Dr. Martens low boots). Often dyed hair (black, sometimes red or blonde) that is long, short, spiked, partially shaved (see Maria Azevedo of Battery and Yone Dudas of Decoded Feedback) or dreadlocked (see Anna Christine of Luxt). On the other hand, the female rivethead fashion look may be and often is identical to the tough style of the male rivetheads (Tank Girl aesthetic; military wear such as tank tops, paratrooper pants and combat boots). Kim X, co-founder of California-based music label COP International, compared the female rivethead attitude to the Riot grrrl movement.\n\nThe rivethead scene of the 1980s and 1990s was different from the goth subculture in ideological and musical terms, as well as in their visual aesthetics. Confusion regarding the boundaries of those two youth cultures has heightened because of the late-1990s \"multi-subcultural\" cross-hybridization, which led people to incorrectly believe that rivetheads are an offshoot of the goth subculture. Canadian novelist and author Nancy Kilpatrick labelled this youth-cultural overlap \"industrial goth\", as does Julia Borden. ( − \"Note\": In the heyday of the rivethead culture, the term \"industrial goth\" as a description of a youth culture did not exist).\n\nGoths are a dark romantic outgrowth of the punk and post-punk movements that emerged in the early 1980s while rivetheads developed from the industrial dance music scene that came to be in the second half of the 1980s, hand in hand with the media success of post-industrial artists such as Skinny Puppy, Front 242, Front Line Assembly, Ministry, KMFDM, and Numb. The rivethead scene is a male-dominated youth subculture that shows a provocative, insurgent as well as socio-critical approach. The Goth subculture is \"“equally open to women, men and transgendered people”\", and frequently devoid of any interest in ethical activism or political involvements.\n\nAccording to musicologist Bret D. Woods in his master's thesis about industrial music\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50175897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50175897", "title": "Sabash Satyam", "text": "Sabash Satyam\n\nSabash Satyam (Telugu:శభాష్ సత్యం)is a Science fiction Drama Telugu film starring Krishna and Rajasree in the lead roles.\n\nThe story is about Satyam (Krishna), a guy who completes his graduation and works at his uncle Dayanand's (Satyanarayana) cancer research facility. Satyam falls in love with his uncle's daughter Chaya (Rajasree). But her family has different plans for Chaya. Chaya's relatives will set up a lab accident, and Satyam turns invisible in this accident. The story is about how Satyam turns himself normal and wins his love.\n"}
{"id": "711808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711808", "title": "Sarong", "text": "Sarong\n\nA sarong or sarung (; Malay: , formal Indonesian: , colloquial Indonesian: , Tamil: சரம், Arabic: صارون, Sinhalese: සරම; meaning \"sheath\" in Indonesian and Malay) is a large tube or length of fabric, often wrapped around the waist, worn in South Asia, Southeast Asia, the Arabian Peninsula, East Africa, and on many Pacific islands. The fabric often has woven plaid or checkered patterns, or may be brightly colored by means of batik or ikat dyeing. Many modern sarongs have printed designs, often depicting animals or plants. Different types of sarongs are worn in different places in the world, notably, the lungi in India and the izaar in the Arabian Peninsula.\n\n\"Sarong\" or \"sarung\" denotes the lower garment worn by the Indonesian (and other Maritime Southeast Asian) men. This consists of length of fabric about a yard (0.91 m) wide and two-and-a-half yards (2.3 m) long. In the center of this sheet, across the narrower width, a panel of contrasting color or pattern about one foot wide is woven or dyed into the fabric, which is known as the \"kepala\" or \"head\" of the sarong. This sheet is stitched at the narrower edges to form a tube. One steps into this tube, brings the upper edge above the level of the navel (the hem should be level with the ankles), positions the \"kepala\" at the center of the back, and folds in the excess fabric from both sides to the front center, where they overlap and secures the sarong by rolling the upper hem down over itself. Malay men wear sarongs woven in a check pattern; women wear sarongs dyed in the batik method, with, for example, flower motifs, and in brighter colors. However, in Javanese culture, the wearing of batik sarung is not restricted to women on formal occasions such as weddings.\n\nThe sarong is common wear for women, in formal settings with a \"kebaya\" blouse. Malay men wear sarongs in public only when attending Friday prayers at the mosque, but sarongs remain very common casual wear at home for men of all ethnicities and religions in Brunei, Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, and much of the Indian subcontinent. (In South Asia, excluding Sri Lanka, sarongs are typically known as \"mundu\" or \"lungi\").\n\nSarongs known under a variety of local names are traditionally worn by the people of Yemen and elsewhere on the Arabian Peninsula. Local names for the garment include \"fūṭah\", \"izaar\", \"wizār\" and \"maʿwaz\" (pl. \"maʿāwiz\"). In Hadhramawt sarong is called \"ṣārūn\" in the interior and \"ṣārūm\" in the coastal region. In Oman, sarongs are called \"wizār\" and are often white in color, similar to the Keralan \"mundu\" of South Asia and it is usually worn under the Thawb. In Saudi Arabia, sarongs are known as izaar. Designs can be checkered or striped as well floral or arabesque, but double plaid (i.e., a vertical section of the \"izār\" with a different plaid pattern) designs from Indonesia are also very popular. In southwestern Saudi Arabia, tribal groups have their own style of unstitched izaar, which is locally woven. This is also worn in northern Yemen. However, the tribal groups in Yemen each have their own design for their \"fūṭah\", the latter of which may include tassels and fringes. It is thought that these tribal futah resemble the original izaar as worn on the Arabian Peninsula since pre-Islamic times such as the Shendyt. They are generally worn open and unstitched in such a way that the garment does not reach over one's ankles. Other izaars, often imported from Bangladesh, are the traditional clothing of Arab fishermen of the Persian Gulf, the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. It was the traditional garment for men before the introduction of pant-like pyjamas and kaftans during the Turkish and European colonial periods. Tube-stitched as well as open sarongs are both worn, even in formal dishdasha-wearing countries, as casual sleep wear and at home.\n\nSarongs, very similar to those of South-East Asia and completely different from South Asia are widespread – in the state of Manipur, where they are called \"Phanek\" and \"Mekhela\" in Assam which are very similar to traditional attires of other South-East Asian nations. In the South Indian states of Kerala, where they are called \"mundu\" (if fully white or fully black) and \"lungi\" or \"kaili\" if coloured, and Tamil Nadu, where they are called \"kaili\" or \"saaram\" or \"vetti\" or \"lungi\" and are usually worn at home. A standard lungi measures 2.12 by 1.2 metres.\n\nUnlike the brightly colored Southeast Asian sarongs, the Kerala variety (the mundu) is more often plain white and is worn for ceremonial or religious purposes. In Kerala, the brightly coloured sarongs are called \"kaily\" and the white ones are called mundu. The more formal, all-white dhoti is worn for formal and religious occasions. While there are dresses based on the mundu which can be worn by women, they more commonly wear the sari.\n\nSarongs are very common in Sri Lanka and worn only by men. (A similar garment is worn by women. However, the women's garment is called \"redda\", which is wraparound skirt.) It is the standard garment for most men in rural and even some urban communities. However, most men of upper social classes (whose public attire is trousers) wear the sarong only as a convenient night garment or only within the confines of the house.\n\nStatistically, the number of people wearing sarong as their primary public attire is on the decline in Sri Lanka; the reason being that the sarong carries the stigma of being the attire for less educated lower social classes. However, there is a trend toward adopting sarong as a fashionable garment or as a formal garment worn with national pride, only on special occasions. Political and social leaders of Sri Lanka who want to portray their humility and closeness to \"common man\" and their nationalism, choose a variation of the sarong nicknamed the \"national\" as their public attire.\n\nSarongs are ubiquitous in Somalia and the Muslim-inhabited areas of the Horn of Africa. Although nomadic and urban Somali men have worn them for centuries in the form of a plain white skirt, the colorful \"macawiis\" (ma'awiis) sarong, which is the most popular form of the garment in the region, is a relatively recent arrival to Somalia courtesy of trade with the Southeast Asian islands and the Indian subcontinent. Before the 1940s, most macawiis were made of cotton. However, since the industrialization of the market for sarongs, they now come in many fabrics and combinations thereof, including polyester, nylon and silk.\n\nDesigns vary greatly and range from checkered square motifs with watermarked diamonds and plaid to simple geometric lines. The one constant is that they tend to be quite colorful; black macawiis are rare. Sarongs in Somalia are worn around the waist and folded several times over to secure their position. They are typically sold pre-sewn as one long circular stretch of cloth, though some vendors offer to sew them as a value-added service.\n\nIn North and South America as well as Europe, hip wraps are worn as beach wear or as a cover-up over swimwear. The wrap is often made of a thin, light fabric, often rayon, and may feature decorative fringing on both sides. They may have ties, which are long thin straps of fabric which the wearer can tie together to prevent the wrap from falling down. These wraps are mostly worn by women as beach cover ups and do not usually resemble traditional Asian or African sarongs in size, pattern or design. Western men who wear male sarongs are influenced by the Scottish kilt or lava-lava within the Polynesian or Samoan culture. Typically sarongs are worn by men when they are at home or at the beach or as a cover up on a nude beach or by the pool or on a cruise.\n\nNumerous tying methods exist to hold a sarong to the wearer's body. In some cases, these techniques customarily differ according to the sex of wearer. If a sarong has ties, they may be used to hold it in place. Sarong ties give the wearer a little extra hold and security. If no ties exist, a pin may be used, the fabric may be tightly tucked under itself in layers, the corners of the main sheet may be around the body and knotted, or a belt may be used to hold the sarong in place.\n\nThe basic garment known in English most often as a \"sarong\", sewn or unsewn, has analogs in many regions, where it shows variations in style and is known by different names.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe American public is most familiar with the sarong for the dozens of films set in the South Seas, most of them romantic dramas made in the 1930s and 1940s. Dorothy Lamour is by far the actress most linked with the garment, which was designed by Edith Head. Lamour starred in multiple films of this genre, starting with \"The Hurricane\" in 1937. In fact, Lamour was nicknamed \"The Sarong Girl\" by the press and even wore a sarong on occasion in more traditional films. Among the other actresses to don the sarong for film roles are Maria Montez, Gilda Gray, Myrna Loy, Gene Tierney, Frances Farmer and Movita. Male stars who wore the manly sarongs on film include Jon Hall, Ray Milland, Tyrone Power, Robert Preston, Sabu Dastagir and Ralph Fiennes in \"The Constant Gardener\". The sarong was also worn by Pierce Brosnan in \"The Thomas Crown Affair\" (1999). The 2005 documentary film \"Soldiers in Sarong\", directed by Lokendra Arambam, depicts the women's resistance movement in Manipur, North-East India. \nIn Singapore, the term \"Sarong Party Girl\" refers to a local single Singaporean woman especially of Chinese ethnicity who favour socializing and having relationships with expatriate Caucasian men rather than the local ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "37744516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37744516", "title": "Secretary of State for Culture, Arts and Sports", "text": "Secretary of State for Culture, Arts and Sports\n\nThe Secretary of State for Culture, Arts and Sports (informally Culture Secretary) is a Honduras secretary of State responsible for the formulation, coordination, implementation and evaluation of policies relating to research, rescue and dissemination of the cultural heritage, arts education and the identification, preservation and protection of historical and cultural heritage of the nation and all matters relating to the organization, promotion and development of sports.\n\nIt was created in 1975 as Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Information, passing in your organization to bring together institutions like the National Library centennial Juan Ramon Molina and the National Archives of Honduras or the latest Manuel Bonilla and National Theater Institute Honduran Anthropology and History.\nAnnually awarded various prizes as incentives and recognition to the artistic and cultural production in Honduras, such as Laurel Leaf award in Gold and National Art Prize Pablo Zelaya Sierra, African Heritage Award, National Award for Voluntary Cultural and since 2006 the National Prize for Fiction Children and Youth.\nFrom 1990 to 2007, the Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports together with the Cultural Center of Spain in Tegucigalpa and the National School of Fine ArtesDesam convened every November 15th Anthology of Visual Arts of Honduras2 to encourage and document the annual creativity and enhance the social projection ENBA Also, each year paid tribute to a master of the Honduran plastic.\n\nSecretary of State for Culture, Arts and Sports is working to preserve and improve cultural arts and traditions of honduran amerindian groups, among them Lenca, Miskito, Ch'orti', Tolupan, Pech or Paya Indians and Sumo or Tawahka and also Afro-Honduran population; Garifuna and Creoles.\n\n"}
{"id": "254607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254607", "title": "Shtick", "text": "Shtick\n\nA shtick (, the closely related German word \"Stück\" sounds similar, yet it is not used in the same way as the English \"thing\") is a comic theme or gimmick derived from the Yiddish word \"shtik\" (שטיק), meaning \"piece\" (in stand-up comedy a near equivalent term is a \"bit\"). The English word for \"piece\" or \"thing\" is sometimes used in a similar context. Another variant is \"bits of business\" or just \"bits\". \"Shtick\" may refer to an adopted persona, usually for comedy performances, that is maintained consistently (though not necessarily exclusively) across the performer's career. In this usage, the recurring personalities adopted by Laurel and Hardy through all of their many comedy films (although they often played characters with different names and occupations) would qualify as their shtick. A comedian might maintain several different shticks of this sort, particularly if appearing in a variety show encouraging development of multiple characters, such as \"Saturday Night Live\". \n\nIn common usage, the word \"shtick\" has also come to mean any talent, style, habit, or other eccentricity for which a person is particularly well-known, even if not intended for comedic purposes. For example, a person who is known locally for an ability to eat dozens of hot dogs quickly might say that it was his shtick. Among Orthodox Jews, \"shtick\" can also refer to wedding shtick, in which wedding guests entertain the bride and groom through dancing, costumes, juggling, and silliness.\n\nBecause of its roots in show business, \"shtick\" has taken on connotation of a contrived and often used act. For this reason, journalists and commentators often apply the word disparagingly to stock replies from politicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "7697521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697521", "title": "Spec script", "text": "Spec script\n\nA spec script, also known as a speculative screenplay, is a non-commissioned and unsolicited screenplay. It is usually written by a screenwriter who hopes to have the script optioned and eventually purchased by a producer, production company, or studio.\n\nSpec scripts which have gone on to win Academy Awards include \"Thelma & Louise\" (sold by Callie Khouri to MGM for US$500,000 in 1990), \"Good Will Hunting\" (sold by Matt Damon and Ben Affleck to Miramax Films for US$675,000 in 1994) and \"American Beauty\" (sold by Alan Ball to DreamWorks SKG for US$250,000 in 1998).\n\nIn 1933, Preston Sturges is believed to have sold the first spec script in Hollywood history. Fox bought \"The Power and the Glory\" for US$17,500 plus back-end revenue. The movie did poorly at the box office. However, in 2014 the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.\n\nSpec scripts have not always held as much cachet in the business as they do now. Ernest Lehman describes how his original script for \"North by Northwest\" was unusual at that point in his career:\nIn the late 1960s, William Goldman sold his spec script \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\" to Warner Bros. for US$400,000 in a studio bidding war. The script went on to win the Academy Award for Best Screenplay. This event precipitated a rise in screenwriters writing on spec.\n\nIf the writer of a spec script has an agent, the agent will identify a number of prospective buyers who may range from small independent producers to executives working in the major studios, and attempt to build up 'heat' under the script. The script may be sent out simultaneously to all the prospective buyers in the hope of attracting a bidding war.\n\nIf the script sells, the writer may receive a payment of anything from a few tens of thousands of dollars to several million. If not, the script is sometimes dead in the water because it is now in the databases of the studios and development executives, and has been marked as having been 'passed' on.\n\nIf a spec script is not picked up, but the script is considered good, the screenwriter may be offered a writing assignment. Spec scripts are often written by unknown screenwriters looking to prove their storytelling ability and make a name for themselves in the film industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "7650988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7650988", "title": "Stall (engine)", "text": "Stall (engine)\n\nA stall is the slowing or stopping of a process and in the case of an engine refers to a sudden stopping of the engine turning, usually brought about accidentally.\n\nIt is commonly applied to the phenomenon whereby an engine abruptly ceases operating and stops turning. It might be due to not getting enough air, energy, fuel, or electric spark, fuel starvation, a mechanical failure, or in response to a sudden increase in engine load. This increase in engine load is common in vehicles with a manual transmission when the clutch is released too suddenly.\n\nThe ways in which a car can stall is usually down to the driver, especially on manual transmission. For instance if a driver takes their foot off the clutch too quickly while stationary then the car will stall; taking the foot off the clutch slowly will stop this from happening. Stalling also happens when the driver forgets to depress the clutch and/or change to neutral while coming to a stop. Stalling can be dangerous, especially in heavy traffic.\n\nA car fitted with an automatic transmission could also have its engine stalled when the vehicle is travelling in the opposite direction to the selected gear. For example, if the selector is in the 'D' position and the car is moving backwards, (on a steep enough hill to overcome the torque from the torque converter) the engine will stall, due to the fact that the engine is forced to turn in the opposite direction to what it is actually doing. This is because, hypothetically, if the car is rolling backward fast enough, the force from the rotating wheels will be transmitted backward through the transmission and act as a sudden load on the engine.\n\nDigital electronics fuel injection and ECU ignition systems have greatly reduced stalling in modern engines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45291277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45291277", "title": "TERMCAT", "text": "TERMCAT\n\nTERMCAT is a public Catalan institution created in 1985 in order to ensure the development and integration of Catalan terminology for the preparation of terminological resources, standardization of terminology neologisms and advice on a regular and ongoing dialogue with users specialists. Since 1998, its terminology notices are obligatory in the scientific and technical publications of the public administration of the country. Neologisms are approved and published in the Official Journal Diari Oficial de la Generalitat de Catalunya. \n\nIt was created in Barcelona in 1985 as a joint initiative of the Ministry of Culture of the Generalitat of Catalonia and the Institute of Catalan Studies (IEC). Since 1994 the Consortium for Standardization language was added to the management of the consortium.\n\nCercaterm is an automated service for online multilingual consultations of TERMCAT with over 230,000 terminology entries available to the public. Anyone can consult the terms standardized by the TERMCAT Supervising Council, terminology products published since 1985, information from the centre's research projects, terms from consultations and projects in an advanced research phase, entries written by other entities and professionals and terminological criteria entries written by the centre.\n\nThe interface works as a multilingual thematic search engine which also enables terminology consultations of TERMCAT through a personalized service module. The suggestions and comments made by users are one of the sources for incorporating new entries into Cercaterm.\n\nThe entries include a reference that informs the users of the source of the information so they may assess the credibility of the data.\n\nNeoloteca is an on-line dictionary of all neologisms that are created in Catalan and is approved by the Supervisory Council of TERMCAT in cooperation with the Institut d'Estudis Catalans. The aim of Neoloteca is to specify and define new terms in Catalan and to give their equivalences in other languages. The terms can relate to any area of human society and endeavor including science, art and culture, technology, business and commerce, sport, etc. The terms proposed are regarded as the correct forms for use in all areas of public administration in Catalonia.\n\nBy 1999 Neoloteca contained 6,000 terms that could be consulted using a theme-based index or alphabetical indexes in various languages. It regularly publishes updates in order to keep abreast of the latest developments in science and society in general. The update in January 2014 offered, among other things, a series of terms relating to manga culture and to the different hand movements made when operating mobile devices. New terms are always published in the \"Official Gazette of the Catalan Government.\"\n"}
{"id": "210005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210005", "title": "Telescreen", "text": "Telescreen\n\nTelescreens are devices that operate as both televisions, security cameras and microphones. They are featured in George Orwell's dystopian novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" as well as all film adaptations of the novel. In the novel and its adaptations, telescreens are used by the ruling Party in the totalitarian fictional State of Oceania to keep its subjects under constant surveillance, thus eliminating the chance of secret conspiracies against Oceania.\n\nAll members of the Inner Party (\"nomenklatura\") and Outer Party (middle-class) have telescreens in their homes, but the proles (lower-class) are not typically monitored as they are unimportant to the Party. As later explained in Emmanuel Goldstein's book of which Smith reads some excerpts, the Party does not feel threatened by the Proles, assuming that they would never rebel on their own, and therefore does not find a need to monitor their daily lives. \n\nThe character O'Brien claims that he, as a member of the Inner Party, can turn off his telescreen (although etiquette dictates only for half an hour at a time). While the programmes could no longer be seen or heard, the screen still functioned as a surveillance device, as after Winston is taken into the Ministry of Love, the audio of his meeting with O'Brien with the telescreen \"off\" is played back to Winston. \n\nThe screens are monitored by the Thought Police. However, it is not clear how many screens are monitored at once, or what the precise criteria (if any) for monitoring a given screen are (although it is seen that during an exercise programme that Winston takes part in every morning, the instructor can see him, meaning telescreens are possibly an early variant of videophones). Telescreen cameras do not have night vision technology, thus, they cannot monitor in the dark. This is compensated by the fact that their microphones are incredibly sensitive, and they are said to pick up a heartbeat. As Winston describes, \"... even a back can be revealing ...\"\n\nIn addition to being surveillance devices, telescreens are also televisions (hence the name). It broadcasts propaganda about Oceania's military victories, economic production figures, spirited renditions of the national anthem to heighten patriotism, and Two Minutes Hate, which is a two-minute film of Emmanuel Goldstein's wishes for freedom of speech and press, which the citizens have been trained to disagree with through doublethink. Many of the telescreen programmes are transmitted in Newspeak.\n\nThe word \"telescreen\" also appears in Robert A. Heinlein's \"Space Cadet\", written at the same time as Orwell's book, where it simply refers to an instrument similar to a large television, but with none of Orwell's sinister connotations.\n\n"}
{"id": "20681439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20681439", "title": "The Cock and the Jasp", "text": "The Cock and the Jasp\n\n\"The Taill of the Cok and the Jasp\" is a Middle Scots version of Aesop's Fable \"The Cock and the Jewel\" by the 15th-century Scottish poet Robert Henryson. It is the first in Henryson's collection known as the \"Morall Fabillis of Esope the Phrygian\". \"The Cok and the Jasp\" is framed by a prologue and a \"moralitas\", and as the first poem in the collection it operates on a number of levels, and in all its parts, to introduce the larger cycle.\n\nAlthough the Aesopian tale of \"The Cock and the Jewel\", which Henryson re-tells, is typically simple, it is one of the most ambiguous in the fable canon. It presents what is, in effect, a riddle on relative values with almost the force of a kōan. One modern translation of the fable, in its most cogent form, runs thus:\n\nThe standard medieval interpretation of the fable, however (which Henryson follows) came down firmly against the cockerel on the grounds that the jewel represents wisdom rather than mere wealth or allure. This interpretation is expressed in the \"verse Romulus\", the standard fable text across Europe in that era, written in the lingua franca, Latin.\n\nHenryson tacitly acknowledges this \"source\" in his own expanded version by claiming to be making a \"translatioun\" from the Latin and directly quoting some of its lines. The \"Romulus\" was a standard classroom text used in primary education to teach Latin. Since \"The Cock and the Jewel\" (\"De Gallo et Jaspide\") was the first fable in this standard collection, it was, \"de facto,\" a universally familiar text in literary consciousness throughout Europe.\n\nThere is little doubt that the succinct \"prolog\" which leads into the \"Cok and the Jasp\" is intended to introduce a general collection of Fabillis, not solely the Fabill of the \"Cok and the Jasp\". It opens with a defense of poetry (expanded from the \"verse Romulus\"), presents an apologia for making the \"translatioun\", establishes the first person narrator, summarises Aesop's work and provides a bridging passage into the \"First Fabill\".\n\nThe first four stanzas develop a general argument that fiction, even though it may be \"feinyeit\" by nature, can have a sound moral purpose at heart, and that stories which are \"pleisand\" (line 4) or \"merie\" (line 20) are better suited to convey wisdom than dry scholastic writing. Henryson develops his meaning using three images; cereal cultivation (stanza 2), the \"nuttis schell\" (stanza 3) and the bowstring (stanza 4).\n\nIn stanza 5 (the middle stanza of the prolog) the narrator identifies and directly addresses his audience for the first time as \"my maisteris\", or in other words, his own university educated peers. The writer, in effect, is figuring himself in the role of student before his teachers (his readers). The stanza also makes cryptic reference to an unnamed commissioning patron for the poem who may or may not have existed.\n\nThe humility topos continues into the next stanza where the narrator pretends to have no understanding of eloquence and an ability only to write in \"rude\" and \"hamelie\" language, a self-deferential reference to his choice to create poetry in Scots rather than Latin. He concludes by inviting his readers to correct any mistakes they may find.\n\nA brief precis of Aesop's fable literature then follows in the next three stanzas with a stark view of its purposes and some comments on how animal behaviour and human nature compare. The ninth stanza ends with a swift bridging passage into the first Fabill.\n\nOf all the thirteen \"taillis\", the \"Cok and the Jasp\" most pretends to be like the static and conventional re-tellings more usual in fable genre. Henryson's innovation and development from his sources chiefly involve presenting an unusually well-rounded, imaginatively realised figure of the cok in a specific and concretely drawn setting. He establishes explicit reasons for the loss of the jasp and sets the location for its discovery as a midden. He also expands the cockerel's arguments and ultimate reasons for the rejection of the jasp as a carefully orchestrated passage of fully fleshed oration which nonetheless continues to sound as if it is being delivered in the voice of a cockerel. But since this is not so much a story — more a strongly drawn vignette — the fabill does not yet fully live up to the requirements for fully effective storytelling argued for in the prolog. This will come in the subsequent fabillis, and so, in a sense, the First Fabill partly acts to defer reader's expectations.\n\nThe cok addresses the stone directly, acknowledges its worth, recognises it has been misplaced and argues, realistically enough, that to him it is of no practical use. The jasp, he says, is an object that belongs more properly to a \"lord or king\" (line 81), while he is content simply to satisfy his humble wants in \"draf\", \"corn\", \"wormis\" and \"snaillis\" — his daily \"meit\". The rhetorical climax comes in the seventh stanza of the fabill in which the \"cok\", rising on a number of rhetorical questions, finishes with an almost fantastical exortation for the stone to levitate and transport itself back to some more royal place:\n\nAnd the cock, leaving the jasp, exits the poem to \"seek his meit\" (line 114).\n\nThe poet immediately follows the \"taill\" with a moralitas. This was a common device in medieval and renaissance fable literature, and its use here establishes the convention that Henryson will employ consistently through all thirteen of the \"Morall Fabillis\".\n\nIn this case, however, before the Moralitas properly begins, stanza 18 (the ninth stanza of the fabill) as a footnote to the \"taill\", intercedes with a compressed account of the qualities of the jasp, including its protective properties, which almost instantly casts doubt on the wisdom of the cock's decision. For example, lines 125-6:\n\nIn a sense, stanza 18 presents a new riddle and, to be answered, requires the cock's argument to be turned.\n\nThe Moralitas proper is usually given to begin after stanza 18 in most textual witnesses except Bannatyne. Its five stanzas come down explicitly against the cock and so, by implication, present a conceit of closure on Aesop's more open and enigmatic original. The narrator minces no words in expressing how serious the cockerel's error has been in rejecting the stone because, he says, the jasp represents \"science\", in the sense of wisdom, which he defines in terms that bring it close in meaning to concepts like \"dharma\". In the final stanza he laments mankind's general failure to respect and comprehend these values:\n\nHe closes, with pretended indifference, by advising the reader, if he so wishes, to go seek the jasp where it lies.\n\nHenryson's expansion of Aesop's fable makes its inferences concrete, introduces complexity and raises a large number of themes in a very short space. In relation to other known fable literature in Europe up to that time, the \"loading\" is extremely rich.\n\nEven though the moralitas comes down sincerely and emphatically on the side of the rejected stone, nevertheless, the cockerel has raised questions that are not necessarily easily resolved. The subsequent poems will appear to further intensify many of those doubts and dichotomies rather than resolving them. Therefore, the riddling aspect to the Aesopian original is, in some regards, not ultimately overturned and is arguably maintained as part of the fabric of the poem.\n\nAmong the specific issues touched on or implied in Henryson's expansion are questions of fiction and truth, appetite, self-interest, fecklessness, materialism, duty, wisdom, hierarchy, equality, education, social order, government, the nature of aristocracy, the nature of royalty and many others. There is also the question of who the cockerel ultimately represents and whether, in some sense, Henryson's poem itself is ultimately the jasp which the reader has encountered \"in the midden\" to take or leave as he or she wishes.\n\nIt is worth noting that the opening of Henryson's Prolog to the \"Morall Fabillis\" echoes the opening lines of John Barbour's \"Brus\". It is therefore a variation on the theme of the relation between truth and report in literature. For comparison, the first ten lines, of \"The Brus\", composed in the 1370s, run:\n\nHenryson's first stanza, written just over a century later, uses a number of the same (or similar) terms, but, in shorter space, generates a slightly less sanguine impression of the relation between narrative, audience and subject. The differences are subtle, but distinct:\n\nThe first fabill, in all its three parts, occupies 23 stanzas, distributed 9—9—5. \n\nBecause of the ambiguity of the status of stanza 18 (as in a sense a second \"mini\" moralitas) the count could be interpreted as \nor even perhaps, \n"}
{"id": "16672506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16672506", "title": "The Green Pastures (film)", "text": "The Green Pastures (film)\n\nThe Green Pastures is a 1936 American film depicting stories from the Bible as visualized by African-American characters. It starred Rex Ingram (in several roles, including \"De Lawd\"), Oscar Polk, and Eddie \"Rochester\" Anderson. It was based on the 1928 novel \"Ol' Man Adam an' His Chillun\" by Roark Bradford and the 1930 Pulitzer Prize-winning play of the same name by Marc Connelly.\n\nThe Green Pastures was one of only six feature films in the Hollywood Studio era to feature an all-African American cast, though elements of it were criticised by civil rights activists at the time and subsequently.\n\nGod tests the human race in this reenactment of Bible stories set in the world of black American folklore.\n\nDespite criticisms about its racial stereotyping, \"The Green Pastures\" proved to be an enormously popular film. On its opening day at New York's Radio City Music Hall, tickets sold at a rate of 6,000 per hour. The film was held over for an entire year's run at some theaters. It remained the highest grossing all-black cast film until the release of \"Carmen Jones\" in 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "4303951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4303951", "title": "Three Rural Issues", "text": "Three Rural Issues\n\nThe Three Rural Issues, or San Nong (), refers to three issues relating to rural development in mainland China. Specifically, these issues are agriculture, rural areas and farmers. The Three Rural Issues were highlighted by Hu Jintao and Wen Jiabao as areas of rural development in China that need work.\n\nAt the 2006 National People's Congress, the Three Rural Issues were especially emphasized throughout Wen Jiabao's speech on the workings of the government in 2005 and the direction of the government for the year 2006. In the rural areas, agricultural reforms had made the peasants better-off until the 1990s when land supply became insufficient and the cost of the means of production was soaring. As a result, the income of the peasants was greatly reduced. Today, the \"three problem of peasantry, rural areas and agriculture\" are still a major concern of the government.\n\nIn general, the issue is how to industrialize agriculture in China. It includes (1) increasing the marketization level of agricultural production and operation, and stabilizing the prices of agricultural products; (2) changing the situation of smallholder economic agriculture, achieving economies of scale of agricultural production and operation; (3) guaranteeing the food security in China. \n\nThis is particularly reflected in the disparity of economic and cultural development between urban and rural areas. It is mainly caused by the dual segmentation based on the household registration system.\n\nIt includes improving the income level of farmers, alleviating burdens of farmers, increasing the cultural qualities of farmers, and safeguarding the rights of farmers.\n\nNot to be confused with migration of rural workers to Cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18002856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18002856", "title": "Tibetan and Himalayan Library", "text": "Tibetan and Himalayan Library\n\nThe Tibetan and Himalayan Library (THL), formerly the Tibetan and Himalayan Digital Library (THDL), is a multimedia guide and digital library hosted by the University of Virginia focused on the languages, history and geography of Tibet and the Himalayas. The THL has also designed a scholarly transcription for Standard Tibetan known as the THL Simplified Phonetic Transcription.\n\nTHDL was established in 2000 in association with the University of Virginia Library and the Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities, using the innovative Fedora Commons (Flexible Extensible Digital Object Repository Architecture) system. Content includes publications, research resources, language learning materials, and a gazetteer.\n\nTHDL provides \"an integrated environment for the digital publication of many diverse academic projects connected with Tibet and the Himalayan region\". \nThe structure of THDL consists of five overarching domains: Collections, Reference, Community, Tools, and Education.\n\nContent of THDL is in English, Tibetan, Nepali, Dzongkha and Chinese languages. Most content in the digital library is published under the THDL Public License For Digital Texts.\n\nThe project is run by an international team of scholars from universities and private organizations around the world.\n\nTHDL hosts the Journal of the International Association of Tibetan Studies (JIATS), a freely available online, peer-reviewed English language academic journal focusing on Tibetan studies.\n\nTibetan Machine Uni is an open source OpenType font for the Tibetan script based on a design by Tony Duff which was updated and adapted for rendering Unicode Tibetan text by the Tibetan and Himalayan Library project at the University of Virginia and released under the GNU General Public License. The font supports a particularly extensive set of conjunct ligatures for Tibetan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10065168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10065168", "title": "United States National Maritime Day", "text": "United States National Maritime Day\n\nNational Maritime Day is a United States holiday created to recognize the maritime industry. It is observed on May 22, the date in 1819 that the American steamship \"Savannah\" set sail from Savannah, Georgia on the first ever transoceanic voyage under steam power. The holiday was created by the United States Congress on May 20, 1933.\n\nOn May 22, 2002, the Military Sealift Command observed National Maritime Day with a memorial service held in Washington, DC. Rear Adm. David L. Brewer III, Commander, Military Sealift Command, and Gordon R. England, Secretary of the Navy, tossed a wreath into the Anacostia River at the Washington Navy Yard in honor of fallen mariners.\n\nIn 2013, National Maritime Day was celebrated with family picnics and boat tours at the Port of San Diego, and with maritime career fairs in Seattle and the Port of Baltimore, as well as with traditional memorial ceremonies.\n\nOn May 22, 2016, the Baltimore events were held at the \"NS Savannah\", Pier 13 of the Canton Marine Terminal in Baltimore, Maryland. Boy Scout Explorer Post # 0438, a re-enactment group representing the First Baltimore Sharpshooters, a.k.a. Aisquith's Sharpshooters, was there in replica uniforms. Battle of North Point Many other groups, both businesses, non-profit groups, and educational groups were present. Docked alongside the \"NS Savannah\" was the \"Golden Bear (ship)\", a training ship from California that was built nearby in Bethlehem Steel in Sparrows Point, Maryland, in 1986.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54078737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54078737", "title": "Virtual exchange", "text": "Virtual exchange\n\nVirtual Exchange is a term used to describe \"technology-enabled, sustained, people-to-people education programs\" in which sustained communication and interaction takes place between individuals or groups who are geographically separated, with the support of educators and/or facilitators. This type of activity is most often situated in educational programs (but is also found in some youth organizations) in order to increase mutual understanding, global citizenship, digital literacies, and language learning. This activity is also known as telecollaboration, online intercultural exchange, globally networked teaching and learning, collaborative online international learning (COIL). In European school contexts, virtual exchange is part of eTwinning, a European Commission initiative. In 2017 the European Commission published a feasibility study into virtual exchange and in 2018 the Erasmus+ Virtual Exchange project was launched.\n\nGroups such as Soliya (Founder Lucas Welch) and the State University of New York's COIL Center use virtual exchange in higher education curricula to connect young people globally with a primary mission to help them grow in their understanding of each other's contexts (society, government, education, religion, environment, gender issues, etc.). Education which aims to integrate awareness and understanding of distant peoples, environmental issues that impact all planetary species, and geopolitical systems as part of the curriculum is sometimes referred to as Global Education.\n\nOnline intercultural exchange is an academic field of study connected to virtual exchange. It \"involves instructionally mediated processes...for social interaction between internationally distributed partner classes\". This activity has its roots in computer-assisted language learning (CALL) and computer-mediated communication. OIE is not restricted to language learning but happens across many educational disciplines where there is a desire to increase the internationalization of teaching and learning.\n\nDevelopments in communication technologies and the relative ease with which forms of human communication can be technically afforded internationally since the existence of the internet resulted in language teaching experimentation. Connecting individuals, classrooms or groups of students to work together on tasks online involves attempting to arrive at shared understanding through \"negotiation of meaning\" There is a body of research in the failures and successes of the endeavour which have informed a guide to language teacher practice. A consortium of researchers, the INTENT consortium supported by funding from the European Union promoted awareness of telecollaborative activities in Higher Education and the contribution made to internationalising the student experience, publishing a report and a position paper. The history of the evolution of this field was described by researcher Robert O'Dowd in his keynote to the European Computer-Assisted Language Learning Conference EUROCALL in 2015. Publications reveal learner perceptions of such activity.\n"}
{"id": "27742434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742434", "title": "World Photography Organisation", "text": "World Photography Organisation\n\nOther programmes include; the World Photography Student Focus Competition; Photo Shanghai; the World Photography Festival, the World Photography Collection and the World Photography Focus Programme.\n\nThe World Photography Awards are organised annually by WPO. They were launched in 2008 and are currently sponsored by Sony. The competition has three entry levels; Student, Open and Professional, each with a number of subcategories.\n\nThe overall winner of the Professional category is awarded with the Iris d'Or, a cash prize and the title \"Sony World Photographer of the Year\" at the Awards ceremony which takes place in London. The award ceremony is part of the larger World Photography Festival and features exhibitions, workshops, portfolio review, student programmes and talks from World Photographic Academy members, culminating in the award ceremony.\n\nAn exhibition of winners is held at Somerset House in London.\n\nThe annual Focus Award, organised by the WPO, is dedicated to using photography in order to raise awareness on a particular global issue. Each year the WPO combines with a different international charity. Previous Focus Award charities have included UNICEF and the Prince's Rainforests Project.\n\nFormed in 2007, the World Photographic Academy members are respected industry leaders from across the world.\n\nMembers of the academy endorse the World Photography Organisation, its values and objectives. The first member was photojournalist Tom Stoddart. Membership is by invitation from WPO and/or referral from existing Academy members. Academy members form the judging committees for the World Photography Awards and advise upon the future of the organisation.\n\nMembers include some of the world’s leading photographers, gallery owners, picture editors, photographic foundations, agents, managers, publishers and other respected industry members. The members form part of the judging committees each year for the World Photography Awards. Membership is granted by invitation from the organisation and/or by referral from an existing academy member.\nWorld Photography Organisation Academy Members\n\n"}
