{"id": "408964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408964", "title": "Academy of Persian Language and Literature", "text": "Academy of Persian Language and Literature\n\nThe Academy of Persian Language and Literature (acronym: APLL) () is the official regulatory body of the Persian language, headquartered in Tehran, Iran. Formerly known as the Academy of Iran (), it was founded on May 20, 1935 by the initiative of Reza Shah Pahlavi, a former monarch of the country.\n\nThe academy acts as the official authority on the language, and contributes to linguistic research on Persian and other languages of Iran.\n\nThe first official attentions to the necessity of protecting the Persian language against foreign words, and to the standardization of Persian orthography, were under the reign of Naser ed Din Shah of the Qajar dynasty in 1871. After Naser ed Din Shah, Mozaffar ed Din Shah ordered the establishment of the first Persian association in 1903. This association officially declared that it used Persian and Arabic as acceptable sources for coining words. The ultimate goal was to prevent books from being printed with wrong use of words. According to the executive guarantee of this association, the government was responsible for wrongfully-printed books. Words coined by this association, such as \"rāh-āhan\" () for \"railway\", were printed in \"Soltani Newspaper\"; but the association was eventually closed due to inattention.\n\nA scientific association was founded in 1911, resulting in a dictionary called \"Words of Scientific Association\" (), which was completed in the future and renamed \"Katouzian Dictionary\" ().\n\nThe first academy for the Persian language was founded in May 20, 1935, under the name \"Academy of Iran\". It was established by the initiative of Reza Shah, and mainly by Hekmat e Shirazi and Mohammad Ali Foroughi, all prominent names in the nationalist movement of the time.\n\nFerdowsi, in fact, was a motivation behind Reza Shah's decision to remove the foreign loanwords from Persian, replacing them with Persian equivalents. In 1934, Reza Shah ordered to rebuild Ferdowsi's tomb and set up a country-wide ceremony in honor of a thousand years of Persian literature since the time of Ferdowsi, titled \"Ferdowsi Millenary Celebration\", inviting notable Iranian and foreign scholars.\n\nThe members of the academy included a number of notable literary figures and highly-celebrated scholars upon its foundation, including Abbas Eqbal Ashtiani, Mohammad-Taqi Bahar, Ali-Akbar Dehkhoda, Mohammad Ali Foroughi, Badiozzaman Forouzanfar, Homayun Forouzanfar, Qasem Ghani, Abdolazim Gharib, Mohammad Ghazvini, Mohammad Hejazi, Ali-Asghar Hekmat, Mahmoud Hessabi, Mohammad-Ali Jamalzadeh, Ahmad Matin-Daftari, Saeed Nafisi, Ebrahim Pourdavoud, Isa Sadiq, Zabihollah Safa, Ali Akbar Siassi, and Rashid Yasemi.\n\nSome foreign scholars were also involved, such as Arthur Christensen (from Denmark), Muhammad Husayn Haykal (from Egypt), Abduqodir Maniyozov (from Tajikistan), Henry Masset (from France), Raf'at Pasha (from Egypt), Jan Rypka (from Czechoslovakia), Dodikhudo Saymiddinov (from Tajikistan), and Muhammadjon Shakuri (from Tajikistan).\n\nThe academy was a key institution in the struggle to re-build Iran as a nation-state after the collapse of the Qajar dynasty. During the 1930s and 1940s, the academy led massive campaigns to replace the many Arabic, French, and Greek loanwords whose immense use in Persian during the centuries preceding the foundation of the Pahlavi dynasty had created a literary language considerably different from the spoken Persian of the time.\n\nThe academy strives to protect the integrity of the Persian language. It heads the academic efforts for linguistic research on the Persian language and its sister Iranian languages. It has also created an official orthography of Persian.\n\nThe attention of the academy has also been towards the persistent infiltration of Persian, like many other languages, with foreign words, as a result of the globalization process. The academy constantly campaigns for the use of Persian equivalents of new loanwords. If no equivalents exist, it has the task of linguistically deriving such words from existing Persian roots, and actively promoting the adoption of these new coinages in the daily lives. The Iranian law requires those equivalents to be used in the official media, governmental affairs, and product management of all companies.\n\nThe academy members are selected from masters of Persian literature and linguistics. Since the 1979 Revolution, the academy's presidents have been Hassan Habibi, who died due to heart failure in January 2013, and the current president, Gholam Ali Haddad-Adel.\n\nThe following is a list of both living and deceased permanent members of the academy since the 1979 Revolution.\n\n\n\nOn November 19, 2005, the Academy of the Persian Language and Literature delivered a pronouncement on the name of the Persian language, rejecting any use of the word \"Farsi\" (instead of English \"Persian\", German \"Persisch\", Spanish \"persa\", French \"persan\", etc.) in foreign languages.\n\nThe announcement reads:\n\nSupporting this announcement, gradually other institutions and literary figures separately took similar actions throughout the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "26693373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26693373", "title": "Antonia Darder", "text": "Antonia Darder\n\nAntonia Darder (born Priscilla Antonia Darder Aguilo on April 16, 1952 in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico) is a scholar, artist, poet, activist, and public intellectual. Darder holds the Leavey Presidential Endowed Chair in Ethics and Moral Leadership in the School of Education at Loyola Marymount University. She also is Professor Emerita of Educational Policy, Organization, and Leadership at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\n\nAntonia Darder attended Pasadena City College where she earned a degree in nursing. She later attended Cal State Los Angeles for her bachelor's in Rehabilitation Counseling and received a master's degree from Pacific Oaks College in Human Development. In 1989, she received her doctorate in Education from Claremont Graduate University.\n\nAt age three, her mother brought Darder to the mainland during the Operation Bootstrap post-war migration when more than 500,000 Puerto Ricans emigrated\nRaised in poverty in East Los Angeles, she was a young mother with three children, when she began her studies at Pasadena City College in 1972. While at PCC, Darder began exploring the realm of cultural differences in U.S. society, as a bilingual peer counselor. Upon completing nursing school, she worked as a pediatric nurse in a hospital and then for the Head Start Program. Her work included developing programs for parents, and providing health education for children and their families. She attended California State University Los Angeles and then Pacific Oaks College, where she earned a master's degree in Human Development with a specialization in Marriage, Family and Child Counseling.\n\nWhile earning her degree, Darder worked in a variety of settings as a therapist and clinical supervisor for child abuse and domestic violence programs. During this time, she was active working with the Chicano/Latino movement, focusing on issues of mental health and education in Spanish speaking communities.\n\nFrom 1982 - 1986, Darder began teaching college seminars that focused on sociopolitical issues and questions of culture, human development, and parenting. In 1986, she joined the faculty at Pacific Oaks where she developed a graduate program in Bicultural Development that was discussed in her first book, \"Culture and Power in the Classroom\".\n\nIn the late 80's and early 90’s, Darder studied and worked with renowned Brazilian educator, Paulo Freire, whose ideas profoundly influenced the direction of her life's work. Her book \"Reinventing Paulo Freire: A Pedagogy of Love\"\n\nfocused on Freire’s important contributions to education, particularly from the standpoint of oppressed communities.\n\nFrom 1993-1996, as a recipient of a Kellogg Foundation fellowship and participant in the Kellogg International Leadership Program, her research took her to Peru where she studied the education and culture of indigenous children in the Andes.\n\nDarder has taught at California Polytechnic University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and was recognized as a Distinguished Professor at New Mexico State University, Las Cruces. In 2005, working with graduate students and community members, she established the \"Liberacion! Radio Collective\" a public affairs radio program, on WEFT 90.1 Champaign that examines politics, art, and struggle through the nexus of local/global connections.\n\nIn 2011, Darder was recognized as Professor Emerita at the University of Illinois, where she taught in the Department of Educational Policy Studies from 2003-2011. Today she serves as Presidential Endowed Chair in Ethics and Moral Leadership in the School of Education at Loyola Marymount University.\n\nDarder's work focuses on comparative studies of racism, political economy, education, and society. Her teaching and research examine issues of inequalities and the politics of social exclusions, as these relate to racism, class inequalities, and gendered relations of power. Her work also explores popular culture and the politics of public pedagogy with respect to critical democratic participation. Her most recent research examines the pervasiveness of oppression within the university, as well as issues directly tied to the body, pedagogy, and inequality.\n\nIn addition to her recognition as a distinguished professor and endowed chair of ethics and moral leadership at Loyola Marymount, Darder has received numerous awards and honors for both her scholarly and community contributions. In 2016, she was awarded the Alpha Sigma Nu Outstanding Book of the Year award for the \"International Critical Pedagogy Reader\" co-edited with Peter Mayo & João Paraskeva. In 2016, she was honored for her scholarship and community activism by CADRE, a parent community organization working with families in South Central Los Angeles. In that same year, she was awarded the Paulo Freire Democratic Project award, given to individuals who embody the life and legacy of Paulo Freire and who are characterized by intellectual excellence, ethical concern and deep commitment to the creation, nurturing, and sustainability of fair and just communities. In 2015, Darder was inducted as an American Educational Research Association Fellow and was one of nine internationally recognized educators nominated for the Brock Prize in Education. Other honors have included the Eminent Scholar Award from Southern Queensland University, Toowoomba, Australia; a Thinker in Residence Distinguished Faculty Fellowship from Victoria University, Melbourne, Australia; and a Rains Award for Excellence in Research, Scholarship, and Creative Work. She has also been the recipient of a Distinguished International Research Fellow Award from New Castle University, Callaghan, Australia; and a Heroes Award from the Sisters of Saint Joseph for Reconciliation and Justice awarded to individuals who exemplify justice and reconciliation in their lives. Along with a national Kellogg Foundation Fellowship, she has also received the Social Justice in Education Award from the University of New Mexico, an Outstanding Book of the Year honor from the American Educational Research Association for her book \"Reinventing Paulo Freire: A Pedagogy of Love\", and recognition for her Outstanding Service to the Latino Community from El Centro de Acción Social, among others. Darder was also one of 72 women chosen to appear in Victoria Alvarado’s book, \"Mujeres de Consciencia/Women of Conscience.\" (Floricanto Press, 2009), a tribute to U.S. Latinas who have made a definite and long standing contribution to the Latino community and the nation at large.\n\nIn 1983, Darder's first book of poetry, \"Each Day I Feel More Free\" was published. For the next 6 years, she frequently presented her poetry at different cultural events. Over the years, her poetry has been published in a variety of venues, including the \"Boston Journal of Education\". Although somewhat unorthodox, she often includes poetry in her academic speeches and texts. In her last book, \"A Dissident Voice: Essays on Culture, Pedagogy, and Power\", each of the seven sections in the book begins with one of her poems.\n\nIn 1984, Darder traveled to visit a friend in the Coyoacán neighborhood of Mexico City and there discovered the museum La Casa Azul (the Blue House) which was the residence of renown painters Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera. During her visit, Darder experienced such inspiration from her daily afternoon sojourns to the Blue House, that she began painting immediately after returning home from Mexico City. Since then, she has exhibited her work in a variety of venues including \"Self-Help Graphics\" and \"Plaza De La Raza\" in Los Angeles and continues to create new works.\n\nDarder first performed and wrote songs in the mid-1980s for \"Canto Jibaro\", a Los Angeles community musical ensemble of Chicano and Puerto Rican activists, whose music carried a revolutionary message. Later she began learning to play the guitar and with Guido Nuñez del Prado, a Peruvian folk musician, with whom she co-edited an anthology of articles on music of the Andes, \"Seminario de Musica de la Region\". Writing and performing in English and Spanish, Darder has penned over 20 folksongs of love, struggle, and freedom.\n\nDarder's first book \"Culture and Power in the Classroom\" (Bergin & Garvey) was released in 1991. The book was recognized by \"The Nation\" in 1992, as \"a significant tool for democratic schooling in the 20th century.\" As a scholar of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute she authored \"The Policies and the Promise: The Public Schooling of Latino Children\" (1993).\nHer follow-up book, \"Reinventing Paulo Freire: A Pedagogy of Love\" (Westview, 2001), was named one of the outstanding books in curriculum for 2001-2002 by the American Educational Research Association. In 2011, \"A Dissident Voice, Essays on Culture, Pedagogy and Power\" was released by Peter Lang books. The book is a compilation of 21 essays and seven poems published from 1991 - 2011. In 2012, the 20th anniversary edition of \"Culture and Power in the Classroom\" was published by Paradigm Press.\n\nIn addition to these books, Darder co-authored with Rodolfo Torres the book \"After Race: Racism After Multiculturalism\", and was editor of \"Culture and Difference\" (Bergin & Garvey, 1995). She also co-edited \"Latinos and Education\" (Routledge, 1996/2013), \"The Latino Studies Reader: Culture, Economy and Society\" (Blackwell, 1997), \"The Critical Pedagogy Reader\" (Routledge, 2002/2008) and \"International Critical Pedagogy Reader\" Continuing to provide ongoing perspective in the field, Darder also served as a co-editor of the Postcolonial Studies in Education book series an Associate Editor and Advisory Board Member for the journal \"Latino Studies\" and as an editorial or advisory member on more that\n\nIn 2009, Darder's documentary, \"Breaking Silence: The Pervasiveness of Oppression\", was awarded the second place prize at the Central Illinois Women’s Film Festival. The film was produced with a team of graduate students and community members involved in the \"Diversity and Technology for Engaging Communities\" research team, a study examining issues of power, privilege, and racism on the UIUC campus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46959502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46959502", "title": "Bairagirchar High School", "text": "Bairagirchar High School\n\nBairagirchar High School is a secondary school in Katiadi Upazila, Kishoreganj District, Dhaka Division, Bangladesh.\n\nBairagirchar High School is one of the oldest schools in Katiadi, Kishoregonj. The school was established after the liberation war of Bangladesh. In 1972 some renowned people of Bairagirchat planned to set up a school in the village so they took initiative for the establishment of the school.\n\nThere are three groups in the school\n\n"}
{"id": "9211507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9211507", "title": "Belizean Writers Series", "text": "Belizean Writers Series\n\nThe Belizean Writers Series, published by local media house Cubola Productions, preserves some of the best of Belizean arts and letters, mainly poetry and short stories. The series began in 1995 and is ongoing.\n\nThe General Editor of the series is Michael D. Phillips.\n\nDeals with short fiction published in the previous thirty years. With the exception of \"Crab Seasin\", written entirely in Belize Creole, all stories were in English.\n\n\nSix original plays written and performed in Belize between 1970 and the time of publication were included in this volume:\n\nFeatures poems by a number of Belizean authors, young and old, published and unpublished.\n\nCovers folktales and mythological legends native to Belize and surrounding areas.\n\n\n\n\nIris Abraham has been a dancer and a craft instructor for many years in Belize and received the British Empire's Medal (BEM) in 1965 for her work in teaching craft, especially basketry, and community service work in Belize. She lived and worked in the U.S. for many years as a recreational nurse for the elderly. During her time in the U.S. Abraham continued the tradition of honoring mothers as was done in her village of Gales Point.\n\nMinerva Aponte-Jolly was born in Puerto Rico. When she was eleven, her family moved to New York City. In 1972, Aponte-Jolly moved to Belize with her husband and children and made Benque Viejo Town her new home. She enjoys inventing stories for her four grandchildren.\n\nLeo H. Bradley Sr. (1926–2001) was a career librarian and teacher with a keen interest in history. He lived for some years in Trinidad and the United Kingdom where he studied librarianship before becoming the first qualified Belizean librarian. He served both as a government archivist and as Chief Librarian as well as a newspaper editor. In his honor, the headquarters of the Belize National Library Service was named the Leo Bradley Library.\n\nJessie Nuñez Castillo, a Garifuna woman, was born in the village of Hopkins in the Stann Creek District, Belize. She is an elementary school teacher and has taught both in Belize and in Los Angeles, California. She received her elementary school education at Holy Family School in Hopkins, and attended Austin High School in Dangriga and the Belize Teachers College. Castillo earned a BA in English (Creative Writing) from Union Institute in Los Angeles. She has been published in Garifuna Folktales.\n\nSandra Crough was born in Honduras. At the age of three, she was brought by her paternal grandmother to Belize, at the time British Honduras, where she grew up. She attended St. Mary's Elementary School and later St. Catherine Academy. After high school, Crough taught for a year at St. Mary's Elementary School before migrating to England to study nursing. Later, she moved to the United States, where she earned a degree in Safety and Occupational Health and worked as a safety specialist in that field. She started writing six years ago and earned an MFA and has written short stories published in Writers’ Journal. With a certificate in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages), she currently tutors in adult education, and lives in Los Angeles with her husband.\n\nHolly Edgell is an Assistant Professor of Journalism at Florida A&M University in Tallahassee, Florida. She was born in Belize City, and although she mostly grew up overseas, she completed part of her primary and post-secondary education in Belize. Edgell joined Florida A&M in 2001 after working as a television news producer in the USA. Her career took her from Youngstown, Ohio to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Cleveland, Ohio, and Detroit, Michigan. She got her start in broadcast journalism as the first news director for Great Belize Television's News 5. In 1995, Edgell earned a Master of Arts degree in Journalism from Kent State University. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Journalism from Michigan State University with the support of a scholarship from the Government of Belize, her prize for winning the 1986–87 Miss Belize crown. Holly Edgell is the daughter of Al and Zee Edgell and is married to Eduardo Lopez of Havana, Cuba.\n\nZee Edgell was born in Belize in 1940. She worked as a reporter for the \"Daily Gleaner\" of Kingston, Jamaica, and was also the first editor of the \"Reporter\", a Belizean newspaper. From 1966 to 1968 Edgell taught at St. Catherine's Academy in Belize City. She was head of the Women's Bureau in the government of Belize for the period 1981–1982. From 1986–1987 she was director of the Department of Women's Affairs. She lectured at the University College of Belize from 1988 to 1989, and was visiting professor at Old Dominion University in Virginia in 1993. Edgell is an Associate Professor in the Department of English at Kent State University where she teaches Creative Writing. She is the author of \"Beka Lamb\" (1982), \"In Times Like These\" (1991), \"The Festival of San Joaquin\" (1997), and \"Time and the River\" (2007), all published by Heinemann, Oxford. Three of her short stories have also been published: “Longtime Story”, “My Uncle Theophilus” and “The Entertainment”.\n\nZoila M. Ellis (born 1957) began writing poems and short stories at the age of eight. A practicing attorney, she studied law at the University of the West Indies from 1974 to 1980, and after returning to Belize she worked as a Magistrate, a Crown Counsel, and was the first Director of the Belize Legal Aid Center. Ellis holds a master's degree in Development Studies from the University of Sussex in the United Kingdom. She resides in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and is Belize's Honorary Consul for that country. \n\nKathleen Esquivel is the author of \"Under the Shade\" (1991) and has written and produced several one-act plays. A naturalized Belizean, Esquivel holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology from Bristol University in England. She taught secondary school mathematics and chemistry from 1969 to 1993 and was Vice-Principal of Wesley College in Belize City from 1987 to 1993. In 1997 she updated a UNICEF document, “The Right to a Future: a situational analysis of children in Belize”. She also chaired the editorial board for the UNICEF publication “From Girls to Women, Growing up Healthy in Belize” and regularly writes newspaper articles. Esquivel served as the president of the National Women's Commission in Belize and as president and secretary of the Belize Mental Health Advisory Board. She also served as secretary of the Belize Cancer Society and is a patroness of the Belize Family Life Association.\n\nGeorge S. Gabb (1928–2007) was the last child of 16 in his family and had no further formal school than a primary school education at St. John's Primary School. From the age of 13 Gabb began to explore his interests in the arts on his own. Today, he is celebrated in Belize a very accomplished, self-taught sculptor in wood, stone, steel and ceramic, as well as a painter, designer, actor, boat-builder, writer and poet. Throughout his life, Gabb won numerous awards for his poetry, play writing, producing and directing. In June 1974 in Belize City, Mr. Gabb received the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, M.B.A., from the Queen of England (H.E. Queen Elizabeth II) for his contribution to the arts in general.\n\nCarol Fonseca Galvez (born 1964) is a writer of short stories, poems and plays. She served as an English lecturer at St. John's College Junior College before being appointed as Executive Director of the Women's Department in Belize. Fonseca obtained a Bachelor of Arts from Viterbo College in Wisconsin, a Masters of Arts from the University of Leeds, England and a PhD in English from the University of the West Indies. In 1991 Fonseca won the National Poetry Contest sponsored by the Ministry of Education and the University College of Belize's Short Story Contest. Her play \"Tiky Bood\" received wide acclaim in the 1990s.\n\nShannon A. Gillett holds a Master of Education degree from the University of North Florida. She currently works as a Curriculum Officer in the Ministry of Education in Belize. Gillett served as a lecturer in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the University of Belize and is member of the Belize Chamber Group, and the Pantempters Steel Orchestra.\n\nFelicia Ogaldez Hernandez was born in 1932 in Dangriga Town, Belize, where she received her formal education. She joined the teaching profession in 1948 and taught in various parts of Belize. She received a trained as a teacher's diploma from the Belize Teachers College in 1970. Later that year, Hernandez and her family migrated to the US where she continued to teach and took up writing. Hernandez is the author of four books: \"I don’t know you but I love you\" (1978), \"Those Ridiculous Years\" (1982), \"Narenga\" (1993), and \"Reflections and Other Family Stories\" (2000). She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Creative Writing from SUNY Empire State in New York, and is a member of the Association of Caribbean Women Writers and Scholars (ACWWS). In 1978, Hernandez was awarded an honorary service award from the California Congress of Parents and Teachers in San Jose.\n\nYvette M. Holland was born in Belize City in 1972. She attended Catholic primary and secondary schools in Belize City and later earned a bachelor's degree in English at Le Moyne College in Syracuse, New York. She later earned a master's degree in English from Boston College. Holland currently teaches Composition and Literature at St. John's Junior College Junior College in Belize City.\n\nEvan X Hyde (born 1947) is the publisher of the \"Amandala\" newspaper and an outspoken advocate for the advancement of black people. He majored in English at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire. On his return to Belize he helped form the United Black Association for Development (UBAD) and became its second president in 1969. Hyde is the author of several fiction and nonfiction works, including \"X Communications\" (Angelus Press 1995) and \"Sports, Sin and Subversion\" (Ramos 2008). Hyde is also an accomplished poet and playwright.\n\nIvory Kelly was born in Sittee River Village, Belize. She is a career educator who has taught at the primary and secondary levels in Belize for almost two decades and in Los Angeles for three years. She also served as Teacher Supervisor at the Belize Teachers College, as Assistant Headmaster of Academic Affairs at St. John's College, and as a part-time English lecturer at the University of Belize. She is the author of \"Point of Order: Poetry and Prose\" published by Ramos Publishing in 2009. Her writings also appear in \"She\" (Factory Books); \"Treasures of a Century\" (Belize National Library Service); \"Memories, Dreams and Nightmares\"; and \"The Alchemy of Words Vol. 2\" (Cubola Books). Kelly is currently pursuing a master's degree in Creative Writing at East Carolina University and works as an editorial assistant on the \"North Carolina Literary Review\". \n\nArifah Hayat Lightburn was born in Belize City in 1979, the first of three children of Gilbert and Margaret Lightburn. She received her primary level education from Saint Catherine's Elementary and graduated from Saint Catherine‘s Academy before going on to Saint John's Junior College where she majored in biology and general studies. She transferred to the University of South Florida to study creative writing. After her first degree, she plans to get her MA in Fine Arts, and eventually a Ph.D. She writes for the \"Amandala\" newspaper, and enjoys exploring and writing about women and issues that concern them. She is considering a career related to women's studies and education.\n\nLydia Balderamos Loskot, the second of eight children, grew up in Belize City. Educated by Mercy nuns at St. Catherine Academy during the 1960s, Lascot acquired a solid background in English as well as religious formation in Catholicism. Her formative years in pre-independence and pre-television Belize paralleled a growing interest in nationalism, culture, and the performing arts in the outer society. Loskot holds a Ph.D. in English and Rhetoric from the University of New Mexico and works in higher education. \n\nMyrna Manzanares holds a bachelor's degree in Psychology with a minor in Education from Pepperdine University in southern California. She completed postgraduate work in Community Clinical Psychology from California State University, Long Beach and is a trained counselor. Manzanares worked as a teacher for 15 years in California before moving back to live and work in Belize in 1986. She worked as a lecturer at the Belize Teachers College, and the University College of Belize; as the Program Specialist/ Manager for Pride Belize, and as a Master Trainer with the Belize Institute of Management. Most of her work in Belize has been in the areas of culture, drug abuse prevention, HIV/AIDS, domestic violence and other social and development areas. As a professional storyteller and dramatist, Manzanares writes mainly about social issues and supernatural folklore. She has one daughter and an adopted son.\n\nCorinth Morter-Lewis is a lecturer at the University of Belize where she served as President from 2003 to 2007. She was born in Belize City and educated at Ebenezer Primary School, the Belize Technical College, the University of New Brunswick in Canada, Ball State University in the United States, and the University of Alberta, Canada. She holds a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology as a Chartered Psychologist. Lewis's writing career began in 1957 when she won her first short story contest sponsored by the then Belize Billboard, and between 1965 and 1996 she received various awards in national poetry contests for her poems “Arise” and “United.” In 1976 Lewis published an anthology of some forty poems in \"Share My Song\". Her poems address a wide range of themes spanning childhood, adolescence and young adulthood. Lewis was a key player in the development of Belize's National Arts Council during its formative years and was appointed its first Chairperson in 1981. \n\nMary Gomez Parham lives in Houston, Texas, and is a poet and writer of fiction. She holds a Ph.D. in Spanish from UCLA and has been a professor of Spanish for many years at the University of Houston. She is the recipient of two Fulbright grants and has published widely in the fields of Latin American literature and culture. With Timothy Hagerty, she published \"If Di Pin Neva Ben: Folktales and Legends of Belize\" (Cubola Productions). Her poetry has been anthologized in \"On Words: An Anthology of Belizean Poetry\" (Cubola Productions) and \"Echoes for a New Room: Twelve Voices\" (Brown Rabbit Press) and has been published in various magazines and journals including \"The Caribbean Writer\".\n\nMichael D. Phillips made his first visit to Belize in 1982 and has been back many times since. What began as an innocent interest has become a passion, both personal and academic. He has presented his research on Belize at the SPEAR conference, 'Latin American Studies Association Convention Interdisciplinary Belize Conference' (1992), and at several smaller regional meetings. He has written extensively about tourism in Belize and recently published an article on that subject in Belizean Studies. Professor Phillips currently teaches in the Department of Humanities, Classics, and Comparative Literature at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, where he is working on a history of the Festival of Arts as part of a larger work concerned with Nationalism and Cultural Change in Belize. Previous to his work at Brigham Young University, Professor Phillips was a graduate student at the University of Chicago, where he organized a workshop on Belize which included the participation of Zee Edgell and Robert Reneau. With a background in cultural studies, Professor Phillips is committed to the collection and preservation of the best of Belizean Arts and Letters. \n\nIngrid Reneau is a native Belizean who migrated to the United States when she was 13. She holds a Ph.D. in Literatures in English from Rutgers University. Her research interests include Literatures of the African Diaspora, especially women writers; African Diaspora Rituals and Spirituality; and Black Feminist Theory. She is an Assistant Professor and holds a joint appointment in the English Department and Women's Studies Program at the University of South Carolina. In 2007 Reneau was appointed education officer in Sudan. \n\nHelen Elliott Rocke is a Belizean educator and author. Her desire to write was encouraged through childhood experiences she had in rural villages of the Belize District and the West Indian islands of Barbados and Trinidad. Helen graduated from the Belize Teachers’ College in 1983. She later won the President's Prize on the ACP examination in 1994 from the College of Teachers in England. Helen is presently completing a master's degree in Instruction and Curriculum from the University of North Florida. As a member of the Belize Kriol Project, Helen wrote part-time in the Weh Ah Gat Fi Seh articles in the Amandala and Reporter newspapers. She began her career as an author of Belizean children's literature in 1994. Her Jimbo Mysteries are used in many Belizean primary schools.\n\nGladys Stuart (born 1917) was a career educator well known for her sense of humor and dramatic abilities. She began working at the age of 14, teaching all grades as well as serving as principal for five decades. Her radio program \"Cousin Winnifred\" is remembered fondly by many Belizeans as are her numerous comedic performances. \n\nSylvia Nablo de Vasquez was born in Quebec, Canada, and moved to the Saskatchewan prairie at the age of four. When she was eight years old her parents moved with her and her siblings to San Ignacio, Belize as Baha’i pioneers. Over the years Sylvia moved back and forth between the two countries, but lived more than half her life in Belize. Nablo de Vasquez currently lives in Swift Current, on the Saskatchewan prairie with her husband and their three children, who were born in Belize.\n\nMelba Marin-Velasquez was born in San Ignacio Town, Belize. She attended Sacred Heart College and the University College of Belize. She holds a master's degree in Secondary Education from the University of North Florida. She has taught at Sacred Heart College for many years. \n\nLawrence G. Vernon (born 1937) is a librarian who studied in the United Kingdom and worked for many years in the Belize National Library Service before being appointed Chief Librarian. He is currently Library Director at the University College of Belize.\n\nEvadne L. Wade-Garcia (1950–2005) served as Director of the Geology and Petroleum Unit in Belize's Ministry of Science, Technology and Transportation. She studied petroleum law at the University of the West Indies, Jamaica and the University of Dundee, Scotland. She is a writer of both children's books and novels.\n\nJohn Alexander Waller has resided in Los Angeles, USA, for some time. He was the driving force behind an earlier collection of short stories, \"Among My Souvenirs\", which he co-authored with Leo Bradley and Lawrence Vernon. His later works often appeared in \"Brukdown\", and he is known for his epic poetry which focuses on Belizean history.\n\nShirley Warde (1901–1991) was an expatriate American and Off Broadway actress who first visited Belize in 1953 as a Baha'i missionary. She spent the rest of her life in the country and was actively involved in theatre, collecting folk tales, and wood carving. She also worked as a teacher and editor. Warde's best-known production was the musical extravaganza \"Boss King\" which played a record 19 sold-out performances at the Bliss Institute in 1965.\n\nGay Wilentz (−2006) served for many years as Director of Ethnic Studies and Professor of English at East Carolina University and Visiting Professor at the University of Belize. Her first critical work, \"Binding Cultures: Black Women Writers in Africa and the Diaspora\", examines women's role in the transmission of culture on both sides of the Atlantic. Wilentz is the co-editor of Africa World Press's \"Emerging Perspectives on Ama Ata Aidoo\", and she is the editor of Jewish immigrant writer Anzia Yezierska's 1923 novel, \"Salome of the Tenements\", reprinted in 1991. Wilentz has published essays in \"College English\", \"African American Review\", \"Research in African Literatures\", \"Twentieth Century Literature\", and \"MELUS\", among other publications. She also contributed chapters in books on authors from the US, the African continent and the Caribbean. Her most recent book, \"Healing Narratives: Women Writers Curing Cultural Dis-Ease\", is an interdisciplinary, critical work that explores cultural healing in women's writings of the African Diaspora, indigenous cultures, and the Jewish Diaspora. \n\nNatalie Williams was born in Belize City, Belize. After high school, she won the Governor General's scholarship which allowed her to earn a Bachelor of Education in English and Art Education from the University of Victoria in British Columbia, Canada. 1990 currently teaches at Sacred Heart College in San Ignacio after teaching at St. John's Junior College in Belize City. Her creativity extends to painting, and she has works with special needs students at Stella Maris School in two-dimensional artwork. \n\nSir Colville Young (born 1932) became Belize's second Governor-General in November 1993. He studied at the University of the West Indies and the University of York in the United Kingdom. Before his appointment as Governor-General Young was a lecturer at the University College of Belize where he served as founding president. He is a prolific author, composer, playwright and poet.\n\nWilly A. Villalda\nJemmy M. Morales\nEvelyn N. Flores\n\n"}
{"id": "1169169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1169169", "title": "Bicinium", "text": "Bicinium\n\nIn music of the Renaissance and early Baroque eras, a bicinium (pl. bicinia) was a composition for only two parts, especially one for the purpose of teaching counterpoint or singing.\n\nThe term has had two usages in music history:\n\n\nThe term was first used in Poland, by Jan z Lublina in a treatise of 1540. Volumes of bicinia were published in the next several decades in Germany, the Low Countries, and even in Italy, as the usefulness of bicinia as teaching aids became apparent. In addition, Martin Luther had strongly expressed that children should learn both music, and the psalms: bicinia with German texts from the Psalms fulfilled his purpose.\n\nStudents could be expected to master singing a single part in a duet more easily than a part in a larger ensemble. Usually a bicinium was designed to be sung or played by students of the same age and ability, rather than for a single student and a teacher.\n\nThis model of moving from two-part study, writing, and singing to three parts and then more was adopted by Heinrich Glarean in his \"Dodecachordon\" (1547), one of the most influential music theory and pedagogy treatises of the Renaissance.\n\nIn a similar manner, present-day music students typically learn counterpoint first by writing in two parts, and then later in three, only moving to four or more parts after mastering the earlier stages.\n\nA similar pedagogical composition for three voices is known as a tricinium (pl. tricinia).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7645391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7645391", "title": "Burston Strike School", "text": "Burston Strike School\n\nThe Burston Strike School was founded as a consequence of a school strike and became the centre of the longest running strike in British history, that lasted from 1914 to 1939 in the village of Burston in Norfolk, England. Today, the building stands as a museum to the strike. Every year hundreds of people turn up for a rally to commemorate the 25-year strike over the jobs of Annie Higdon and her husband.\n\nThe strike began when teachers at the village's Church of England school, Annie Higdon and her husband, Tom Higdon, were sacked after a dispute with the area's school management committee. The schoolchildren – led by Violet Potter – went on strike in their support. Encouraged by the community, the Higdons went on to set up an alternative school which was initially attended by 66 of their 72 former pupils. Beginning in a marquee on the village green, the school moved to a local carpenter's premises and later to a purpose-built school financed by donations from the labour movement. Burston Strike School carried on teaching local children until shortly after Tom's death in 1939.\n\nAnnie Katherine Schollick (Kitty) married in 1896 Tom Higdon, the son of a farm labourer. They lived first in London before moving to Wood Dalling in Norfolk in 1902. This coincided with publication of an Education Bill in Parliament which offered education to working class children.\n\nKitty was appointed headmistress at Wood Dalling School with Tom an assistant teacher. Identifying themselves with the local farm labourers, the Higdons ran up against almost immediate resentment from the school managers, who were mostly farmers. They objected to the cold, insanitary conditions of the school and especially protested at the farmers taking children away to work on the land whenever they were needed. Eventually, after a complete breakdown of relationships, the Norfolk Education Committee gave the Higdons a choice: accept dismissal or transfer to another school. They took up the latter offer and moved to the Burston School in 1911.\n\nArriving at Burston, the Higdons found conditions were no different. The newly arrived rector, the Reverend Charles Tucker Eland, was appointed chairman of the School Managing Body. Eland intended to recover the powers the Church had lost to the parish councils. He demanded deference and recognition of his right to lead the community. His situation, with an annual salary of £581 and a large comfortable rectory, contrasted starkly with the farm labourers and their families, living on average wages of £35 a year in squalid cottages. Their employers, themselves mostly tenants of brewery-owned land, naturally allied with the rector.\n\nIn 1913, after organising among the local agricultural labourers, Tom Higdon successfully stood for election to the parish council, topping the poll with Eland failing to be elected, against his expectation. However, although the rector and the farm owners had been defeated in the parish council election, they still had control of the school's managing body and were determined to use this power to victimise the Higdons. Since their arrival in Burston, the Higdons had complained about conditions in the school, particularly the dampness, inadequate heating and lighting, lack of ventilation and general unhygienic conditions. Looking for a pretext for action, the managers accused Kitty of lighting a fire without their permission – to dry the clothes of children who had walked three miles to school in the rain. She was also accused of gross discourtesy when reprimanded for this act. In addition, Kitty was accused of beating two Barnardo girls. Despite her pacifist principles, the school managers found there was \"good ground for the complaints of the Barnardo foster mother\" and they demanded the Higdons be transferred.\n\nTom and Kitty demanded an inquiry be undertaken by the local Norfolk Education Authority Committee. Due to illness, Annie was unable to attend, and the National Union of Teachers-appointed legal representative failed to call any witnesses in her defence as they were being held back for a possible slander case. Despite that, the beating accusation was declared to be not proven. Only the final accusation of discourtesy to the managers was accepted and that was deemed sufficient to give the Higdon's three months' notice.\n\nThe Higdons' dismissal took effect on 1 April 1914. As the authorities were taking over, the sound of children marching and singing could be heard. Of the school's 72 pupils, 66 had gone on strike, marching around the village waving flags. None of them returned to the school, but instead had lessons on the village green. This alternative \"school\" was well equipped, maintained a full timetable and observed registrations with the full support of parents. The authorities were in no mood to tolerate this defiance and 18 parents were summonsed to court and fined for failing to ensure their children's attendance at school. Collections outside the court paid the fines, and since the parents were sending their children to the school of their choice, the authorities were soon forced to back down.\n\nWord of the strike quickly spread and it became a central issue for trade unionists and school reformers throughout the country. There were regular visits of supporters and speakers. With the onset of winter, the school moved into empty workshops. The authorities kept up their intimidation with farmers sacking farm labourers (which also meant eviction from their tied cottages). This could not be maintained, because a shortage of labour during the First World War meant that they had to be re-employed. Striking families who rented land from the rector for growing food were evicted and their crops and property destroyed. The village's Methodist preacher, who held services on the village green on Sundays for families of the Strike School children, was censured by his church.\n\nAt the end of the first year of the strike, with the lease on the old workshops due to expire, an appeal was made for funds to build a new school. By 1917, a National Appeal had reached £1,250 with donations from miners' and railway workers' unions, Trades councils, Independent Labour Party branches and Co-operative Societies. The new school was officially declared open on 13 May 1917, with the leader of the 1914 demonstration, Violet Potter, declaring, \"With joy and thankfulness I declare this school open to be forever a School of Freedom.\"\n\nThe Burston Strike School continued until 1939. Tom Higdon died on 17 August 1939. By that time Kitty, then in her seventies, was unable to carry on alone, and the last eleven pupils transferred to the Council's school. Kitty moved to a nursing home at Swainsthorpe, Norfolk and she died on 24 April 1946. Both are buried in Burston churchyard alongside each other.\n\nIn 1949, the National Union of Agricultural Workers (NUAW) initiated the establishment of The Burston Strike School as a registered educational charity. Along with \"Sol Sandy\", the surviving trustee of the strike school and a member of the NUAW, three additional trustees were appointed from the union. The self-perpetuating trustees have the legal responsibility to manage the school and try to develop it as a museum, visitor centre, educational archive and village amenity.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the NUAW merged into the Transport and General Workers' Union (TGWU) to form the National Agriculture and Allied Workers' sector. It was at that time that the Strike School was turned into a museum and a rally to commemorate the school and the longest strike in UK history was re-established. The annual rally has been held on the first Sunday in September since 1984. It is organised by the trustees, members of TGWU (now Unite the Union) with support from other trade union organisations.\n\nThe story of the strike was dramatised in 1985 by the BBC. \"Screen Two: The Burston Rebellion\" starred Eileen Atkins as Kitty Higdon, Bernard Hill as Tom Higdon, John Shrapnel as the Reverend Charles Tucker Eland and Nicola Cowper as Violet Potter. It was shown on 24 February 1985, following a documentary about the strike the previous day.\n\nIn 2015, it was announced that a film adaptation of the strike would be produced for general release in 2017. Titled \"Burston\", the producers now aim to film in summer 2017 with a release in 2018. The film is to be directed by the Norfolk-raised director George Moore with a screenplay written by Alice Instone-Brewer. The cast includes Jasmine Fretwell as Violet Potter, Niklass van Poorvleit as Tom Higdon and Robert Clement-Evans as Rev. Eland. The filmmakers are reportedly working closely with the Burston Strike School Museum to ensure that the film represents the strike accurately, and have hired a largely Norfolk-based cast and crew to reflect the regional origins of the story.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18538028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18538028", "title": "Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development", "text": "Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development\n\nThe Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) is a professional association for human resource management professionals. It is headquartered in Wimbledon, London, England. The organisation was founded in 1913 - it is the world's oldest association in its field and has over 145,000 members internationally working across private, public and voluntary sectors. Peter Cheese was announced in June 2012 as CIPD's new CEO from July 2012.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, factory inspectors were appointed for the first time in 1893. In 1896 to look after its women and child workers Rowntree's appointed their first inspector - a Mrs E M Wood. Edward Cadbury of Cadbury Brothers in 1909 called together employers to discuss industrial welfare work and as a result 25 employers formed an association with Mrs Wood of Rowntree's as Secretary. The work of 'welfare workers' came to public attention during a trade show in 1912 at Olympia in London.\n\nThe forerunner of the CIPD, the Welfare Workers' Association (WWA) was formed at an employers' conference in York on 6 June 1913. The meeting was chaired by Seebohm Rowntree. Alongside his company, Rowntree's around fifty other companies were present including; Boots, Cadbury and Chivers and Sons. Thirty-four of the employers present decided that the WWA be founded as...\"an association of employers interested in industrial betterment and of welfare workers engaged by them\". The outbreak of World War I in 1914 led to many women and children taking up the work of men, particularly in the larger munition factories where the appointment of welfare officers was made compulsory by legislation and was monitored by the Health of Munition Workers Committee. This led to the rapid expansion of female welfare workers. There were concerns about the training of welfare staff, and in 1917, at a gathering in Leeds of the seven welfare associations formed during the period it was agreed that they merge by forming the Central Association of Welfare Workers which to accommodate the regional associations established the beginnings of a local branch structure. The Association's position was also enhanced during the war years by nationally driven encouragement of workers to join trade unions to reduce the occurrence of industrial strife. Another development which increased the numbers of company staff dealing with labour and welfare matters occurred with the inclusion of managers, mainly men, from the North-western Area Industrial Association to assist with discipline, dismissal and industrial relations in increasingly unionised organisations. In 1918, to avoid confusion as to its purpose the Association changed its name to the Central Association of Welfare Workers (Industrial) (CAWWI).\n\nAnother important event which had a recurring impact on the activities of the CAWWI occurred in 1918 when the Rev. Robert Hyde founded the Boys’ Welfare Association soon after renamed the Industrial Welfare Society (IWS) with six employers who were concerned with the welfare of boys employed or apprenticed in the shipbuilding industry. From the outset there was a strained relationship between the two bodies which continued right through the inter-war period until resolved in 1946. Though both organisations were concerned with 'welfare at work' the CAWWI developed as an institution for practitioners and the IWS was established as a membership body for employers and there was strong disagreement on how best to bring about improvements in workplace conditions and workers' welfare. The IWS later became the Industrial Society and is now known as the Work Foundation.\n\nIn November 1919, following merger with welfare associations for men the Central Association of Welfare Workers (Industrial) was renamed the Welfare Workers' Institute and now had a membership of 700. However, the next five years saw a reduction in membership to 250 coinciding with the rapid collapse in industrial output as the government sought to reduce the national debt. Again in 1924 on incorporation the organisation changed its name to the Institute of Industrial Welfare Workers (IIWW). Minnie Louise Haskins, the author of the famous poem \"The Gate of the Year\" and a lecturer at LSE, was closely involved with the IIWW and edited its monthly bulletin. As a consequence of the activities of welfare workers during the General Strike of 1926 distrust in the welfare movement grew amongst trade unions which saw a new breed of 'labour managers' part of 'management' which was reflected in 1931 when the IIWW became the Institute of Labour Management and its magazine, rebranded \"Labour Management\". Members of the institute experienced new demands during the 1930s. Firstly, economic growth resulted in a shortfall in skilled labour as companies competed to recruit workers. Secondly, this was followed by lay-offs and industrial action as a worldwide depression took hold, particularly in the industrially-focussed north of England. This influence also had the effect of increasing the number of male members of the institute which significantly shifted the gender balance of the membership. Thirdly, new human relations practices developed in the US were finding their way into more enlightened business which invested in their employees through training and provision of such things as salary benefits, pensions and paid holidays. In 1938 the first of the institute branches opened in the Republic of Ireland. In 1939 membership stood at 760. Mirroring the First World War during World War II, the government insisted on personnel officers to be deployed in factories engaged in war-related production.\n\nDirectly after the Second World War the incoming Labour government instigated a policy of industry nationalization and launched the National Health Service, further increasing the role of personnel professions in handling public sector recruitment, retention, payroll, training, and industrial relations issues. The enlightened practices of large American corporations, some of which had adopted the ideas of human relations thinkers, such as Elton Mayo, and the Civil Service in the field of personnel management were being taken up by the larger UK companies. Both influences were reflected in a further change of name in 1946 to the Institute of Personnel Management (IPM).\n\nThe 1950s were marked by government efforts to improve productivity both through introducing more modern management practices and increase labor supply through encouraging migration of people from the British Commonwealth also known as the Windrush generation. In 1955, responding to these changes, the IPM sought to increase the professional standards and standing of its members by introducing an externally moderated examination scheme, and restricting entry to full membership to fully qualified or practising personnel officers over age 35 with several years' experience. Membership in 1956 stood at 3,979.\n\nDuring the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s influences on the UK workplace ranged from a series of technological revolutions, economic pressures from entry into the Common Market and impact of globalization, deregulation of the financial services industry (the Big Bang). Government intervention in industrial relations and the growth of health and safety, equality, collective and recruitment and employment legislation encouraged new specialisms to develop in the function. In some companies a shift was seen from reactive personnel management processes towards what became known as strategic human resource management practices, or in shorthand HRM. All these factors also influenced a steady increase in membership, which in 1987 was 31,400. The IPM underwent a period of contemplation during which it considered whether; to shift towards an HRM approach as its counterpart in the US the Society for Human Resource Management had already done, or to maintain its focus on the more traditional personnel management practices where the majority of its members still operated, or find a third way reflecting a more UK-focused approach. In 1994, a merger took place between the IPM and the Institute of Training and Development (ITD). The new organisation which had 70,000 members was named the Institute of Personnel and Development (IPD), sought to represent the range of professionals engaged in one or more elements of people management.\n\nChartered status was achieved in 2000 and the IPD was incorporated under Royal Charter from 1 July of that year to become known as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) and reported it had a membership of 120,000 practitioners. In June 2013 the CIPD commemorated its centenary year.\n\nAs of June 2017 the CIPD reported it had over 145,000 members working or studying in the UK and internationally. Following the re-designation of chartered and non-chartered membership status in 2010 the membership structure comprises:\n\n\n\nTo be eligible for Academic Membership of the CIPD you need to be an individual working in the field of teaching or research in HRM or an HRM related area.\n\n\n\nCIPD, also is a training provider of professional HR and L&D qualification as such, the non profit registered charity is incorporated with a Royal Charters as well as, its listed as an awarding body and learning provider of professional qualification which is officially recognized by the government of United Kingdom's Ofqual, CCEA and Qualification Wales. This mean the CIPD qualifications are recognized nationally and internationally. This also gives CIPD accreditation powers to choose which university meet there strict requirements for accreditation of undergraduate, postgraduate and MSC HR and L&D progammes, which is highly sought out by UK and International universities.\n\nOn an annual basis the institute conducts regular surveys on reward management, employee expectations and attitudes to pay and benefits, resourcing and talent planning, and learning and development. The CIPD's 2015 research programme includes specific projects on; the behavioural sciences and learning, people management in small and medium-sized enterprises, social media and technology impacts in the workplace, leadership and management development, valuing the impact of an organisation's people on business performance, the 'megatrends' shaping the labour market and the future workplace. Periodic research reports are published for members on the results from surveys and the findings from research projects.\n\nThe CIPD contributes on public policy issues on behalf of its members by using its in-house research team and draws on the professional experience of its members to develop responses to public policy issues including government consultations. It researches and publishes surveys and responds to media enquiries on the range of human resource issues such as labour markets, reward and employment policy. Commentating on labour market economics and trends has become an increasingly important feature of the CIPD's services to members. The institute's chief economist (currently Mark Beatson) provides economic intelligence to members via CIPD publications and events and as its key spokesperson on labour market economic analysis and forecasting is involved in promoting the institute in the national and business media.\n\nThe CIPD is represented at local level through its 52 branches in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Channel Islands, Isle of Man and Gibraltar. The branches provide learning and networking opportunities, events, information services, and membership and upgrading help for CIPD members and students.\n\nThe CIPD runs a training programme for international HR practitioners and has links with European and World Federations of HR. The CIPD hosted the 2008 WFPMA World HR Congress.\n\nBased in Dublin, CIPD Ireland has over 6,000 members spread in seven regional branches.\n\nThe Singapore Management University (SMU) has become the first university in Asia to offer a master's degree accredited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). SMU joins prestigious universities such as the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) and Kings College London to deliver the CIPD's premier level accredited qualifications.\nThe CIPD website provides podcasts, an RSS news feed, blogs and a professional discussion forum.\n\nCIPD Enterprises Limited is the wholly owned subsidiary of the CIPD. Commercial services supplied by CIPD Enterprises include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165760", "title": "Consensus decision-making", "text": "Consensus decision-making\n\nConsensus decision-making is a group decision-making process in which group members develop, and agree to support a decision in the best interest of the whole. Consensus may be defined professionally as an acceptable resolution, one that can be supported, even if not the \"favourite\" of each individual. It has its origin in the Latin word \"cōnsēnsus\" (agreement), which is from \"cōnsentiō\" meaning literally \"feel together\". It is used to describe both the decision and the process of reaching a decision. Consensus decision-making is thus concerned with the process of deliberating and finalizing a decision, and the social, economic, legal, environmental and political effects of applying this process.\n\nAs a decision-making process, consensus decision-making aims to be:\n\nConsensus decision-making is an alternative to commonly practiced group decision-making processes. \"Robert's Rules of Order\", for instance, is a guide book used by many organizations. This book allows the structuring of debate and passage of proposals that can be approved through majority vote. It does not emphasize the goal of full agreement. Critics of such a process believe that it can involve adversarial debate and the formation of competing factions. These dynamics may harm group member relationships and undermine the ability of a group to cooperatively implement a contentious decision. Consensus decision-making attempts to address the beliefs of such problems. Proponents claim that outcomes of the consensus process include:\n\n\nConsensus is not synonymous with \"unanimity\"– though that may be a rule agreed to in a decision making process. The level of agreement necessary to finalize a decision is known as a \"decision rule\". Possible decision rules for consensus include:\n\n\nSome groups use a consensus process to generate as much agreement as possible, but allow participants to finalize decisions with a decision rule that does not require unanimity. In such cases dissenters still must live with the decision. Groups that require unanimous agreement or consent (unanimity) may have their decisions blocked by objection by any participant. These groups use the term consensus to denote both the discussion process and the decision rule. It is by definition the most difficult to achieve, but also the most durable, since everyone involved has given their consent.\n\nConsent must be 'genuine and cannot be obtained by force, duress or fraud.' Giving consent does not necessarily mean that the proposal being considered is one’s first choice. Group members can vote their consent because they choose to cooperate with the direction of the group, rather than insist on their personal preference. Sometimes the vote on a proposal is framed, “Is this proposal something you can live with?” This relaxed threshold for a yes vote can achieve full consent. However, the values of consensus are not realized if consent is given merely because dissenting participants are frustrated with the process and wanting to move on.\n\nThe process of achieving consent deliberately seeks objections, which reveal wisdom that can be used to improve proposals and agreements. An objection is a reason why doing what is proposed stands in the way of satisfying needs or goals, which the proposal aims to satisfy. Consent implies the absence of reasonable objections, that is, objections strong enough to deny giving it.\n\nA consensus process can also be concluded with a majority or super-majority vote. This is especially common or useful in large and diverse groups that share the values underlying consensus. Consensus process, by definition, seeks the maximum possible levels of agreement or consent. Thus, if a group using a majority vote decision rule is dominated by a majority faction that does not seek the agreement of all participants, the process would not be considered \"consensus.\" Regardless of the decision rule, the process is only \"consensus\" if it has embodied the value of striving for full agreement or consent. Sometimes the outcomes of consensus can be contrary to majority.\n\nCondorcet consensus is defined as a decision achieved by the Condorcet method, in which a winner (winning proposal, etc.) is that which can win a head-to-head contest with any other under consideration. It does not require unanimous or near-unanimous consensus - which cannot be realistically reached in large group sizes - but maximizes satisfaction rate. It can also be argued that when a Condorcet consensus is reached, further deliberation will only strengthen and further specify this consensus.\n\nThe outcome of a multi-option ballot, if measured according to the Condorcet rule, will often be the same as the outcome of another preferential form of multi-option voting, the Modified Borda Count, MBC. If the outcome applying the latter meets any predetermined decision rule, it may be regarded as the consensus.\n\nHealthy consensus decision-making processes usually encourage expression of dissent early, maximizing the chance of accommodating the views of all minorities. Since unanimity may be difficult to achieve, especially in large groups, or consent may be the result of coercion, fear, undue persuasive power or eloquence, inability to comprehend alternatives, or plain impatience with the process of debate, consensus decision-making bodies may use an alternative decision rule, such as Unanimity Minus One (or U−1), or Unanimity Minus Two (or U−2).\n\nTo ensure the agreement or consent of all participants is valued, many groups choose unanimity or near-unanimity as their decision rule. Groups that require unanimity allow individual participants the option of blocking a group decision. This provision motivates a group to make sure that all group members consent to any new proposal before it is adopted. Proper guidelines for the use of this option, however, are important. The ethics of consensus decision-making encourage participants to place the good of the whole group above their own individual preferences. When there is potential for a block to a group decision, both the group and dissenters in the group are encouraged to collaborate until agreement can be reached. Simply vetoing a decision is not considered a responsible use of consensus blocking. Some common guidelines for the use of consensus blocking include:\n\n\nA participant who does not support a proposal may have alternatives to simply blocking it. Some common options may include the ability to:\n\nThe basic model for achieving consensus as defined by any decision rule involves:\n\nAll attempts at achieving consensus begin with a good faith attempt at generating full-agreement, regardless of decision rule threshold.\n\nIn the model, affinity groups make joint decisions by each designating a speaker and sitting behind that circle of spokespeople, akin to the spokes of a wheel. While speaking rights might be limited to each group's designee, the meeting may allot breakout time for the constituent groups to discuss an issue and return to the circle via their spokesperson. In the case of an activist spokescouncil preparing for the A16 Washington D.C. protests in 2000, affinity groups disputed their spokescouncil's imposition of nonviolence in their action guidelines. They received the reprieve of letting groups self-organize their protests, and as the city's protest was subsequently divided into pie slices, each blockaded by an affinity group's choice of protest. Many of the participants learned about the spokescouncil model on the fly by participating in it directly, and came to better understand their planned action by hearing others' concerns and voicing their own.\n\nThe group first elects, say, three referees or consensors.\nThe debate on the chosen problem is initiated by the facilitator calling for proposals.\nEvery proposed option is accepted if the referees decide it is relevant and conforms with the UN Charter on Human Rights.\nThe referees produce and display a list of these options.\nThe debate proceeds, with queries, comments, criticisms and/or even new options.\nIf the debate fails to come to a verbal consensus, the referees draw up a final list of options - usually between 4 and 6 - to represent the debate.\nWhen all agree, the chair calls for a preferential vote, as per the rules for a Modified Borda Count, MBC.\nThe referees decide which option, or which composite of the two leading options, is the outcome. If its level of support surpasses a minimum consensus coefficient, it may be adopted.\n\nGroups that require unanimity commonly use a core set of procedures depicted in this flow chart.\n\nOnce an agenda for discussion has been set and, optionally, the ground rules for the meeting have been agreed upon, each item of the agenda is addressed in turn. Typically, each decision arising from an agenda item follows through a simple structure:\n\nQuaker-based consensus is said to be effective because it puts in place a simple, time-tested structure that moves a group towards unity. The Quaker model is intended to allow hearing individual voices while providing a mechanism for dealing with disagreements.\n\nThe Quaker model has been adapted by Earlham College for application to secular settings, and can be effectively applied in any consensus decision-making process.\n\nIts process includes:\n\n\nKey components of Quaker-based consensus include a belief in a common humanity and the ability to decide together. The goal is \"unity, not unanimity.\" Ensuring that group members speak only once until others are heard encourages a diversity of thought. The facilitator is understood as serving the group rather than acting as person-in-charge. In the Quaker model, as with other consensus decision-making processes, articulating the emerging consensus allows members to be clear on the decision in front of them. As members' views are taken into account they are likely to support it.\n\nThe consensus-oriented decision-making (CODM) model offers a detailed step-wise description of consensus process. It can be used with any type of decision rule. It outlines the process of how proposals can be collaboratively built with full participation of all stakeholders. This model lets groups be flexible enough to make decisions when they need to, while still following a format based on the primary values of consensus decision-making. The CODM steps include:\nSome of the specific contributions of the CODM model include: 1) Starting important topics with open discussion rather than by presenting a pre-formulated proposal, so that a truly collaborative process can ensue. 2) Gathering a list of all needs and concerns expressed by the group to form criteria for all potential proposals to address. 3) taking turns in a unified attempt to build each proposal idea into the best possible proposal before choosing between them. And 4) using empathy in the closure stage to address any unresolved feelings from the process.\n\nConsensus decision-making models overlap significantly with deliberative methods, which are processes for structuring discussion that may or may not be a lead-in to a decision.\n\nThe consensus decision-making process often has several roles designed to make the process run more effectively. Although the name and nature of these roles varies from group to group, the most common are the facilitator, consensor, a timekeeper, an empath and a secretary or notes taker. Not all decision-making bodies use all of these roles, although the facilitator position is almost always filled, and some groups use supplementary roles, such as a Devil's advocate or greeter. Some decision-making bodies rotate these roles through the group members in order to build the experience and skills of the participants, and prevent any perceived concentration of power.\n\nThe common roles in a consensus meeting are:\n\nNon-verbal means of expression can also reduce contention or keep issues from spreading out in time across an entire meeting. Various methods of agenda control exist, mostly relying on an explicit chairperson with the power to interrupt off-topic or rambling discourse. This gets more difficult if there is no such chair and accordingly the attitude of the entire group must be assessed by each speaker. Verbal interruptions inevitably become common, possibly in the form of grumbling, muttering, and eventually sharp words, if there is no effective means of cutting off persons making false factual statements or rambling off a topic.\n\nThe Levi Hand Signal Technique (LHST) employed by Otesha \"allows meeting participants to register their intent to make two distinct kinds of comments: those that are directly in response to someone else's comment ('reactive comments') and those that are separate thoughts ('unique comments'). Intent to register a reactive comment is signaled by a different hand signal than is intent to register a unique comment. We used an index finger for the former and a full hand for the latter.\" This clears direct responses to a contentious comment faster—and makes it harder to insert it in a long speakers' list and count on a long delay between the utterance and the challenge to create the appearance of agreement.\n\n\"Twinkling fingers\", similarly, is a nonverbal way of expressing strong agreement, similar to applause but without the interruption and possibly less intimidation of disagreement than applause or cheers can create. The Occupy movement has used these methods.\n\nSome consensus decision-making bodies use a system of colored cards to speed up and ease the consensus process. Most often, each member is given a set of three colored cards: red, yellow and green. The cards can be raised during the process to indicate the member's input. Cards can be used during the discussion phase as well as during a call for consensus. The cards have different meanings, depending on the phase in which they are used. The meaning of the colors are:\nSome decision-making bodies use a modified version of the colored card system with additional colors, such as orange to indicate a non-blocking reservation stronger than a stand-aside.\nHand signals are often used by consensus decision-making bodies as a way for group members to nonverbally indicate their opinions or positions. They have been found useful in facilitating groups of 6 to 250 people. They are particularly useful when the group is multi-lingual.\n\nThe nature and meaning of individual gestures varies from group to group. Nonetheless, there is a widely adopted core set of hand signals. These include: wiggling of the fingers on both hands, a gesture sometimes referred to as \"twinkling\", to indicate agreement; raising a fist or crossing both forearms with hands in fists to indicate a block or strong disagreement; and making a \"T\" shape with both hands, the \"time out\" gesture, to call attention to a point of process or order. One common set of hand signals is called the \"Fist-to-Five\" or \"Fist-of-Five\". In this method each member of the group can hold up a fist to indicate blocking consensus, one finger to suggest changes, two fingers to discuss minor issues, three fingers to indicate willingness to let issue pass without further discussion, four fingers to affirm the decision as a good idea, and five fingers to volunteer to take a lead in implementing the decision. A similar set of hand signals are used by the Occupy Wall Street protesters in their group negotiations.\n\nAnother common set of hand signals used is the \"Thumbs\" method, where Thumbs Up=agreement; Thumbs Sideways=have concerns but won't block consensus; and Thumbs Down=I don't agree and I won't accept this proposal. This method is also useful for \"straw polls\" to take a quick reading of the group's overall sentiment for the active proposal.\n\nA slightly more detailed variation on the thumbs proposal can be used to indicate a 5-point range: (1) Thumb-up=strongly agree, (2) Palm-up=mostly agree, (3) Thumb Sideways=\"on the fence\" or divided feelings, (4) Palm down=mostly disagree, and (5) Thumb down=strongly disagree.\n\nOther useful hand signs include:\n\nDotmocracy sheets provide a way to visibly document levels of agreement among participants on a large variety of ideas. Participants write down ideas on paper forms called \"Dotmocracy sheets\" and fill in one dot per sheet to record their opinion of each idea on a scale of \"strong agreement\", \"agreement\", \"neutral\", \"disagreement\", \"strong disagreement\" or \"confusion\". Participants sign each sheet they dot and may add brief comments. The result is a graph-like visual representation of the group's collective opinions on each idea.\n\nSometimes some common form of voting such as First-past-the-post is used as a \"fall-back method\" when consensus cannot be reached within a given time frame.\nHowever, if the potential outcome of the fall-back method can be anticipated, then those who support that outcome have incentives to block consensus so that the fall-back method gets applied. Special fall-back methods have been developed that reduce this incentive.\nSome specific fall-back methods include:\n\nCritics of consensus blocking often observe that the option, while potentially effective for small groups of motivated or trained individuals with a sufficiently high degree of affinity, has a number of possible shortcomings, notably\n\nConsensus seeks to improve solidarity in the long run. Accordingly, it should not be confused with unanimity in the immediate situation, which is often a symptom of groupthink. Studies of effective consensus process usually indicate a shunning of unanimity or \"illusion of unanimity\" that does not hold up as a group comes under real-world pressure (when dissent reappears). Cory Doctorow, Ralph Nader and other proponents of deliberative democracy or judicial-like methods view the explicit dissent as a symbol of strength.\n\nIn his book about Wikipedia, Joseph Reagle considers the merits and challenges of consensus in open and online communities. Randy Schutt, Starhawk and other practitioners of direct action focus on the hazards of apparent agreement followed by action in which group splits become dangerously obvious.\n\nUnanimous, or apparently unanimous, decisions can have drawbacks. They may be symptoms of a systemic bias, a rigged process (where an agenda is not published in advance or changed when it becomes clear who is present to consent), fear of speaking one's mind, a lack of creativity (to suggest alternatives) or even a lack of courage (to go further along the same road to a more extreme solution that would not achieve unanimous consent).\n\nUnanimity is achieved when the full group apparently consents to a decision. It has disadvantages insofar as further disagreement, improvements or better ideas then remain hidden, but effectively ends the debate moving it to an implementation phase. Some consider all unanimity a form of groupthink, and some experts propose \"coding systems...for detecting the illusion of unanimity symptom.\" In \"Consensus is not Unanimity\", consensus practitioner and activist leader Starhawk wrote:\n\nConfusion between unanimity and consensus, in other words, usually causes consensus decision-making to fail, and the group then either reverts to majority or supermajority rule or disbands.\n\nMost robust models of consensus exclude uniformly unanimous decisions and require at least documentation of minority concerns. Some state clearly that unanimity is not consensus but rather evidence of intimidation, lack of imagination, lack of courage, failure to include all voices, or deliberate exclusion of the contrary views.\n\nSome proponents of consensus decision-making view procedures that use majority rule as undesirable for several reasons. Majority voting is regarded as competitive, rather than cooperative, framing decision-making in a win/lose dichotomy that ignores the possibility of compromise or other mutually beneficial solutions. Carlos Santiago Nino, on the other hand, has argued that majority rule leads to better deliberation practice than the alternatives, because it requires each member of the group to make arguments that appeal to at least half the participants. A. Lijphart reaches the same conclusion about majority rule, noting that majority rule encourages coalition-building. Additionally, opponents of majority rule claim that it can lead to a 'tyranny of the majority', a scenario in which a majority places its interests so far above those of an individual or minority group as to constitute active oppression. Some voting theorists, however, argue that majority rule may actually prevent tyranny of the majority, in part because it maximizes the potential for a minority to form a coalition that can overturn an unsatisfactory decision.\n\nSome advocates of consensus would assert that a majority decision reduces the commitment of each individual decision-maker to the decision. Members of a minority position may feel less commitment to a majority decision, and even majority voters who may have taken their positions along party or bloc lines may have a sense of reduced responsibility for the ultimate decision. The result of this reduced commitment, according to many consensus proponents, is potentially less willingness to defend or act upon the decision.\n\nMajority voting cannot measure consensus. Indeed - so many 'for' and so many 'against' - it measures the very opposite, the degree of dissent. Consensus voting, in contrast, the Modified Borda Count, MBC, can identify the consensus of any electorate, whenever such a consensus exists. Furthermore, the rules laid down for this procedure can be the very catalyst of consensus.\n\nOutside of Western culture, multiple other cultures have used consensus decision-making. Perhaps the oldest example is the Iroquois Confederacy Grand Council, or Haudenosaunee, which has used consensus in decision-making using a 75% super majority to finalize decisions, potentially as early as 1142. In the Xulu and Xhosa (South African) process of indaba, community leaders gather to listen to the public and negotiate figurative thresholds towards an acceptable compromise. The technique was also used during the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference. In Aceh and Nias cultures (Indonesian), family and regional disputes, from playground fights to estate inheritance, are handled through a \"musyawarah\" consensus-building process in which parties mediate to find peace and avoid future hostility and revenge. The resulting agreements are expected to be followed, and range from advice and warnings to compensation and exile.\n\nAlthough the modern popularity of consensus decision-making in Western society dates from the women's liberation movement of the 1970s, and anti-nuclear movement the origins of formal consensus can be traced significantly further back.\n\nThe most notable of early Western consensus practitioners are the Religious Society of Friends, or Quakers, who adopted the technique as early as the 17th century. Anabaptists, including some Mennonites, have a history of using consensus decision-making and some believe Anabaptists practiced consensus as early as the Martyrs' Synod of 1527. Some Christians trace consensus decision-making back to the Bible. The Global Anabaptist Mennonite Encyclopedia references, in particular, Acts 15 as an example of consensus in the New Testament. The lack of legitimate consensus process in the unanimous conviction of Jesus by corrupt priests in an illegally held Sanhedrin court (which had rules preventing unanimous conviction in a hurried process) strongly influenced the views of pacifist Protestants, including the Anabaptists (Mennonites/Amish), Quakers and Shakers. In particular it influenced their distrust of expert-led courtrooms and to \"be clear about process\" and convene in a way that assures that \"everyone must be heard\".\n\nConsensus voting was first advocated by (a) Ramón Llull in 1199. Next by (b) Nicholas Cusanus in 1435. Then by (c) Jean-Charles de Borda in 1784. Later by (d) Hother Hage in 1860 and (e) Charles Dodgson (Lewis Carroll) in 1884. And finally by (f) Peter Emerson in 1986. With the possible exception of (e), none of these 'inventors' knew anything about the inventions of any of their predecessors.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" credits Mollie Hunter (1922–2012) with following quotation regarding consensus: \"No single group has the right to ignore a consensus of thoughtful opinion\"\n\nJapanese companies normally use consensus decision-making, meaning that unanimous support on the board of directors is sought for any decision. A ringi-sho is a circulation document used to obtain agreement. It must first be signed by the lowest level manager, and then upwards, and may need to be revised and the process started over.\n\nIn the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), decisions are assumed to be taken by \"rough consensus\". The IETF has studiously refrained from defining a mechanical method for verifying such consensus, apparently in the belief that any such codification leads to attempts to \"game the system.\" Instead, a working group (WG) chair or BoF chair is supposed to articulate the \"sense of the group.\"\n\nOne tradition in support of rough consensus is the tradition of humming rather than (countable) hand-raising; this allows a group to quickly tell the difference between \"one or two objectors\" or a \"sharply divided community\", without making it easy to slip into \"majority rule\".\n\nMuch of the business of the IETF is carried out on mailing lists, where all parties can speak their view at all times.\n\nIn 2001, Robert Rocco Cottone published a consensus-based model of professional decision-making for counselors and psychologists. Based on social constructivist philosophy, the model operates as a consensus-building model, as the clinician addresses ethical conflicts through a process of negotiating to consensus. Conflicts are resolved by consensually agreed on arbitrators who are defined early in the negotiation process.\n\nThe United States Bureau of Land Management's policy is to seek to use collaborative stakeholder engagement as standard operating practice for natural resources projects, plans, and decision-making except under unusual conditions such as when constrained by law, regulation, or other mandates or when conventional processes are important for establishing new, or reaffirming existing, precedent.\n\nFUM/FGC Friends conduct business in yearly meetings of perhaps 100 to 500 participants. Over the last three centuries they have evolved a number of practices peculiar to their aims. The following practices are traditional in both New York Yearly Meeting and in New England Yearly Meeting:\n\nEvery 20 or 30 years, each yearly meeting's consensus practices are re-codified in a new edition of that yearly meeting's Faith and Practice book.\n\nAs a notable example of the failure of unanimity in the Western canon, New Testament historian Elaine Pagels cites the Sanhedrin's unanimous vote to convict Jesus of Nazareth. To a Jewish audience familiar with that court's requirement to set free any person unanimously convicted as not having a proper defense, Pagels proposes that the story is intended to signal the injustice of unanimous rush to agreement and Jesus' lack of a defender. She cites the shift away from this view and towards preference for visible unanimity as a factor in later \"demonization\" of Jews, pagans, heretics (notably Gnostics) and others who disagreed with orthodox views in later Christianity. Unanimity, in other words, became a priority where it had been an anathema.\n\nSome formal models based on graph theory attempt to explore the implications of suppressed dissent and subsequent sabotage of the group as it takes action.\n\nHigh-stakes decision-making, such as judicial decisions of appeals courts, always require some such explicit documentation. Consent however is still observed that defies factional explanations. Nearly 40% of Supreme Court of US decisions, for example, are unanimous, though often for widely varying reasons. \"Consensus in Supreme Court voting, particularly the extreme consensus of unanimity, has often puzzled Court observers who adhere to ideological accounts of judicial decision making.\" Historical evidence is mixed on whether particular Justices' views were suppressed in favour of public unity.\n\nAnother method to achieve more agreement to satisfy a strict threshold a voting process under which all members of the group have a strategic incentive to agree rather than block. However, this makes it very difficult to tell the difference between those who support the decision and those who merely tactically tolerate it for the incentive. Once they receive that incentive, they may undermine or refuse to implement the agreement in various and non-obvious ways. In general voting systems avoid allowing offering incentives (or \"bribes\") to change a heartfelt vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "10571398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10571398", "title": "Crown College (Tacoma)", "text": "Crown College (Tacoma)\n\nCrown College was a small, for-profit, predominantly online college located in Tacoma, Washington. Crown College lost its educational accreditation on July 31, 2007 and it suspended operations on August 10, 2007.\n\nThe institution was originally Crown School of Hair Design in Everett, Washington and was not affiliated with its present ownership. Killebrew/Dalton, Inc. purchased the school on January 5, 1990 and changed the name of the school to Crown Academy. Crown Academy kept its National Association of Trade and Technical Schools (NATTS) accreditation and continued to be licensed by the Washington State Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board. In six months, after the last of the beauty school students left, Crown Academy began a correctional officers training program and moved to Tacoma in 1991. The school's name was changed to Crown College in 1994 and it began offering associate of science degrees in criminal justice. One year later it added a court operations specialist program which evolved into paralegal studies. A few years later Crown offered a bachelor and associate degree in public administration. In 2003, John Wabel became the sole shareholder of Killebrew/Dalton, Inc. and, soon after, Crown College began offering an associate degree and bachelor's degree in business administration. \n\nCrown College offered most of its classes through distance education. It employs an online technology called the Cloudroom which is a \"live interactive classroom environment\". It also features an accelerated program where students can complete an Associate of Science in approximately 14 months and a Bachelor of Science in approximately 28 months.\n\nUntil July 31, 2007, Crown College was accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges of Technology (ACCSCT), which superseded the NATTS in 1993. Crown College had been on probation with ACCSCT intermittently since 2005. The ACCSCT is a national accrediting agency which accredits 800 post-secondary schools and colleges serving over 240,000 students. These schools teach a wide range of vocational, career and technical subjects which include massage, acupuncture, beauty, pet grooming, cooking, art, locksmithing, gemology, detective investigation, refrigeration, helicopter flight training, mechanical and aviation maintenance to name a few.\n\nOn July 31, 2007, the ACCSCT stripped the school of its accreditation, resulting in the school having to close, until such time it can regain accreditation. According to the Associate Director of the ACCSCT, Crown was stripped of its accreditation because it failed to place 70% of its graduates in the field they had studied for. Arrangements were made for current students to complete their studies through Herzing College Online. In order to offer degrees in Washington State again, Crown will need to seek approval from the Higher Education Coordinating Board since the loss of ACCSCT accreditation means Crown would no longer be exempt from HECB oversight.\n\nOn August 14, 2007 the Department of Education, Office of Inspector General, served a search warrant on Crown College and seized documents and computer files connected with an alleged case of financial aid fraud, conspiracy to defraud and bank fraud by senior employees of Crown College. These employees and some of their \"significant\" others, were under the impression that Crown College would close and allegedly falsified loan applications and received financial aid though they did not attend Crown. They allegedly figured that the loans would be discharged when the school closed. However, when the school did not close immediately, they allegedly falsified attendance records commensurate with the loans.\n\nOn May 13, 2010, four former officers of the defunct school were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of mail and financial aid fraud. The charges stem from the August 14, 2007 investigation. The indictment named four former officers of the school: Sheila Mullineaux, Vice President; Jesica McMullin, Admissions Director and Registrar; Misty Lee, Financial Aid Director; and Jennifer Byers, Fiscal Manager and Bookkeeper.\n\nOn July 14, 2011 Jesica McMullin and Jennifer Byers were each found guilty of 7 counts of mail fraud and 1 count of financial aid fraud. Misty Lee plead guilty to similar charges, testifying to the others' involvement in the fraud. McMullin and Byers are scheduled to be sentenced in October 2011.\n\nCrown College offered Associate of Science degrees in Paralegal Studies, Criminal Justice and Business Administration and Bachelor of Science degrees in Business and Public Administration. These degrees were conveyed under the authority and auspices of the ACCSCT since Crown College is exempt from oversight by the Washington State Higher Education Coordinating Board (HECB). which oversees most degree granting colleges and universities in the state. However, since the ACCSCT no longer accredits Crown College, it is no longer authorized to offer degrees in Washington state.\n\nCrown College's degrees and credits, like those of many for profit schools accredited by national accreditors, are presently not accepted for transfer or recognized by many institutions that have regional accreditation. In 2000, 2004 and again in 2005, Crown College was sued, not because their credits do not transfer, but because they allegedly misrepresented that fact to prospective students. Other nationally accredited schools, notably Florida Metropolitan University, have been accused of making similar misrepresentations. Eleven students participated in the three lawsuits; all alleged that Crown College's admission representatives and staff misrepresented the transferability of their credits to regionally accredited schools such as Gonzaga University, University of Washington, and Seattle University. Each of these students claimed that their decision to attend Crown College was based on these alleged misrepresentations and that Crown College staff made them with the intent of inducing the students to enroll. Lola Jackson and three former students sued Crown College in 2000. Crown College settled that case for a confidential sum before trial in 2004. \n\nIn 2004 Crown College was sued by Latisha Gonzalez and then in early 2005 by Joanne Black (a class action lawsuit that was never certified) and five other plaintiffs. The \"Black\" lawsuit also alleged that Crown College's sound system, faculty and curriculum was deficient and that their placement claims were inflated. In the \"Gonzalez\" and \"Black\" cases Executive Director John Wabel claimed that Crown College's enrollment agreement and catalog clearly stated that they could not assure the transferability of their credits and claimed that no admissions representative made such an assurance. These two lawsuits were widely reported in the local and national news. In January 2006, the Gonzalez case was tried and ten former students, from 1998 to the present, came forward to testify that Crown College admissions representatives had also misrepresented the transferability of credits to them. After a seven-day trial, the jury found that Crown College had violated the Washington State Consumer Protection Act which outlaws deceptive practices in business. The judge later assessed a total of $77,000 including attorney fees and punitive damages per the statute and she issued an injunction mandating that Crown College have each student sign a form with specific language concerning the transferability of their credits and also include in all their advertising that they were accredited by the ACCSCT. The injunction was later lifted. In August 2006, Crown College settled the \"Black\" case for $87,000, divided amongst the six plaintiffs, without admitting liability. Crown's enrollment agreements now require that prospective students waive their right to sue the school if their credits are not accepted for transfer by other schools.\n"}
{"id": "17587345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17587345", "title": "Education and Science Workers' Union (Turkey)", "text": "Education and Science Workers' Union (Turkey)\n\nEducation and Science Workers' Union (Turkish: \"Eğitim ve Bilim Emekçileri Sendikası\"), better known with its abbreviation Eğitim-Sen, is a left-wing trade union of teachers and other education workers in Turkey. In 2005 it had around 200,000 members and was Turkey's largest trade union.\n\nIt was founded on January 23, 1995 as a merger of Eğit-Sen and Eğitim-İş both founded in 1990. It is a member of KESK (Confederation of Public Employees Trade Unions, Education International the International Trade Union Confederation.\n\nIn 2004 an attempt was initiated to shut down the organization by Attorney General of Ankara on the grounds that its statute contained the statement \"...the defence [of the right] of individuals to receive education in their mother tongue\", which was claimed to be against the Article 42 of the Constitution of Turkey which says that \"No other language than Turkish may be taught in educational and teaching facilities to Turkish citizens as their mother tongue\". The closure was demanded because Eğitim Sen refused to remove the phrase in question from its statute during the series of reforms associated with the aspiration of Turkey towards joining the European Union.\n\nAfter a long and controversial litigation Eğitim Sen was closed by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of Appeal on May 25, 2005. To avoid the closure, Eğitim Sen later revoked the clause in question from its statute.\n\nIn 2008 however, a complaint by Adnan Oktar did lead to the banning of the organisation's website. This was a reaction to a press-release about Adnan Oktar’s \"Atlas of Creation\", which was sent to schools free of charge.\n\nIn September 2009 the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ordered adjudged Turkey to pay 2,340 Euro (around 5,150 Turkish Lira) in compensation for restricting trade union activities of Güldeniz Kaya, Ahmet Seyhan and Saime Özcan, members of the Education and Science Workers Trade Union (Eğitim-Sen). Their complaint not only applied to a disregard of Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights which guarantees \"freedom of assembly and association\". Furthermore, the complaint also applied to Article 13 which defines the \"right to an effective remedy\".\n\nOn 25 September 2012 the ECHR ruled on the demand to close Eğitim-Sen. It was stated that \"\"Eğitim-Sen was founded in Ankara on 13 January 1995. According to information provided by the union it has 167,000 members, is divided into 90 sections and is present in 430 cities. It is attached to KESK (\"Kamu Emekçileri Sendikaları Konfederasyonu\", the Confederation of Unions for public employees), which is a member of EI (Education International)...\" As far as the demand for closure was concerned the ECHR argued that \"the impugned action brought against the complainant amounted to an interference by national authorities in the exercise of his right to freedom of association\".\" The Court held unanimously that there had been a violation of Article 11 and of Article 10 of the Convention and ordered Turkey to 7,500 EURO for non-pecuniary damage.\n\n\"On 28 October [2012], the Izmir Criminal Court sentenced 25 members of the teachers’ union Egitim Sen, affiliated to the public sector confederation KESK and Education International (EI) to 6 years and 5 months in prison under the country’s anti-terrorism legislation. Prominent figures among those sentenced included KESK President Lami Özgen, the former Women’s Secretary of KESK, Ms. Songul Morsumbul, Egitim Sen Women’s Secretary Ms. Sakine Esen Yilmaz, and former Women’s Secretaries Ms. Gulcin Isbert and Ms. Elif Akgul Ates. The “evidence” against them included possession of books that can be found in any bookstore in Turkey and the holding of union meetings. Owing to the lack of evidence it had appeared that the defendants were going to be acquitted, until two of the judges were summarily removed from the trial just before the final hearing. Even the Chief Justice was in favour of an acquittal. KESK lodged an appeal against the Criminal Court decision.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "248436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248436", "title": "Education in Canada", "text": "Education in Canada\n\nEducation in Canada is for the most part provided publicly, funded and overseen by federal, provincial, and local governments. Education is within provincial jurisdiction and the curriculum is overseen by the province. Education in Canada is generally divided into primary education, followed by secondary education and post-secondary. Within the provinces under the ministry of education, there are district school boards administering the educational programs.\n\nEducation is compulsory up to the age of 16 in every province in Canada, except for Manitoba, Ontario, and New Brunswick, where the compulsory age is 18, or as soon as a high school diploma has been achieved. In some provinces early leaving exemptions can be granted under certain circumstances at 14. Canada generally has 190 (180 in Quebec) school days in the year, officially starting from September (after Labour Day) to the end of June (usually the last Friday of the month, except in Quebec when it is just before June 24 – the provincial holiday). In British Columbia secondary schools, there are 172 school days during a school year. (2013-2014). In Alberta, high school students get an additional four weeks off to accommodate for exam break; two weeks in January, and two in June. Classes typically end on the 15th of those two months.\n\nElementary, intermediate, secondary, and post-secondary education in Canada is a provincial responsibility and there are many variations between the provinces. The federal government's responsibilities in education are limited to the Royal Military College of Canada, and funding the education of indigenous peoples.\n\nAbout one out of ten Canadians does not have a high school diploma – three in seven has a university degree – the adult population that is without a high school diploma is a combination of both immigrant and Canadian-born. In many places, publicly funded high school courses are offered to the adult population. The ratio of high school graduates versus non diploma-holders is changing rapidly, partly due to changes in the labour market that require people to have a high school diploma and, in many cases, a university degree. Nonetheless, more than 51% of Canadians have a college degree, the highest rate in the world by far. The majority of schools, at 67%, are co-educational.\n\nCanada spends about 5.4% of its GDP on education. The country invests heavily in tertiary education (more than US$20,000 per student). Recent reports suggest that from 2006 the tuition fees of Canadian universities have increased by 40 percent. Since the adoption of section 23 of the Constitution Act, 1982, education in both English and French has been available in most places across Canada (if the population of children speaking the minority language justifies it), although French Second Language education/French Immersion is available to anglophone students across Canada.\n\nAccording to an announcement of Canadian Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, Canada is introducing a new, fast-track system to let foreign students and graduates with Canadian work experience become permanent eligible residents in Canada.\n\nMost schools have introduced one or more initiatives such as programs in Native studies, antiracism, Aboriginal cultures and crafts; visits by elders and other community members; and content in areas like indigenous languages, Aboriginal spirituality, indigenous knowledge of nature, and tours to indigenous heritage sites. Although these classes are offered, most appear to be limited by the area or region in which students reside. \"The curriculum is designed to elicit development and quality of people's cognition through the guiding of accommodations of individuals to their natural environment and their changing social order\"\n\nSubjects that typically get assessed (i.e., language arts, mathematics, and science) assume greater importance than non-assessed subjects (i.e., music, visual arts, and physical education) or facets of the curriculum (i.e., reading and writing versus speaking and listening).\n\nSome scholars view academics as a form of \"soft power\" helping to educate and to create positive attitudes, although there is criticism that educators are merely telling students what to think, instead of how to think for themselves, and using up a large proportion of classroom time in the process. Efforts to keep students happy and socially correct often come at the expense of academic achievement. Social promotion policies, grade inflation, lack of corrective feedback for students, teaching methods that slow the development of basic skills compared to past decades, reform mathematics, and the failure to objectively track student progress have also forced high schools and colleges to lower their academic standards.\n\nThe Constitution of Canada provides constitutional protections for some types of publicly funded religious-based and language-based school systems.\n\nThe \"Constitution Act, 1867\" contains a guarantee for publicly funded religious-based separate schools, provided the separate schools were established by law prior to the province joining Confederation. Court cases have established that this provision did not apply to Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Manitoba, British Columbia, and Prince Edward Island, since those provinces did not provide a legal guarantee for separate schools prior to Confederation. The provision did originally apply to Ontario, Quebec, Saskatchewan, Alberta, and Newfoundland and Labrador, since these provinces did have pre-existing separate schools. This constitutional provision was repealed in Quebec by a constitutional amendment in 1997, and for Newfoundland and Labrador in 1998. The constitutional provision continues to apply to Ontario, Saskatchewan and Alberta. There is a similar federal statutory provision which applies to the Northwest Territories.\n\nSection 23 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" guarantees the right of citizens who were educated in the minority language in a particular province to have their children educated in the minority language in publicly funded schools. In practice, this guarantee means that there are publicly funded English schools in Quebec, and publicly funded French schools in the other provinces and the territories.\n\nQuebec students must attend a French school up until the end of high school unless one of their parents qualifies as a rights-holder under s.23 of the Charter. In Ontario, French language schools automatically admit students recognized under section 23 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and may admit non-francophone students through the board's admissions committee consisting of the school principal, a school superintendent and a teacher.\n\nMost education programs in Canada begin in kindergarten (which is age five) or grade one (age six) and go to grade twelve (age 17 or 18), except in Quebec, where students finish a year earlier. After completion of a secondary school diploma, students may go on to post-secondary studies.\n\nNormally, for each type of publicly funded school (such as Public English or Public French), the province is divided into districts (or divisions). For each district, board members (trustees) are elected only by its supporters within the district (voters receive a ballot for just one of the boards in their area). Normally, all publicly funded schools are under the authority of their local district school board. These school boards would follow a common curriculum set up by the province the board resides in. Only Alberta allows public charter schools, which are independent of any district board. Instead, they each have their own board, which reports directly to the province.\n\nPrimary education, Intermediate education, and secondary education combined are sometimes referred to as K-12 (Kindergarten through Grade 12). Secondary schooling, known as high school, collegiate institute, \"école secondaire\" or secondary school, consists of different grades depending on the province in which one resides. Furthermore, grade structure may vary within a province or even within a school division and may or may not include middle school or junior high school.\n\nKindergarten (or its equivalent) is available for children in all provinces in the year they turn five (except Ontario and Quebec, where it begins a year earlier), but the names of these programs, provincial funding, and the number of hours provided varies widely. For example, the Department of Education in Nova Scotia refers to Kindergarten as Grade Primary.\n\nOntario offers two years of optional kindergarten (junior kindergarten for four-year-olds and senior kindergarten for five-year-olds). At French schools in Ontario, these programs are called \"Maternelle\" and \"Jardin\".\" \"In 2010, Ontario increased both years to full-day programs, while BC's single year of kindergarten became full-day in 2012. Quebec offers heavily subsidized preschool programs and introduced an early kindergarten program for children from low-income families in 2013. Students in the Prairie provinces are not required by statute to attend kindergarten. As a result, kindergarten often is not available in smaller towns.\n\nDependent on the province the age of mandatory entry to the education system is at 4–7 years. Starting at grade one, at age six or seven, there is universal publicly funded access up to grade twelve (age seventeen to eighteen), except in Quebec, where secondary school ends one year earlier. Children are required to attend school until the age of sixteen (eighteen in Manitoba, Ontario, and New Brunswick). In Quebec, the typical high school term ends after Secondary V/Grade eleven (age sixteen to seventeen); following this, students who wish to pursue their studies to the university level have to attend college (see Education in Quebec). Quebec is currently the only province where Grade 12 is part of postsecondary, though Grade 11 was also the end of secondary education in Newfoundland and Labrador prior to the introduction of grade 12 in 1983.\n\nOntario had a Grade 13, subsequently, known as Ontario Academic Credit (OAC) year, but this was abolished in 2003 by the provincial government to cut costs. As a result, the curriculum has been compacted, and the more difficult subjects, such as mathematics, are comparatively harder than before. However, the system is now approximately equivalent to what has been the case outside of Quebec and Ontario for many years.\n\nStudents may continue to attend high school until the ages of 19 to 21 (the cut-off age for high school varies between provinces). Those 19 and over may attend adult school. Students of high school age who have received long-term suspensions or have been expelled, or are otherwise unable or unwilling to attend conventional schools may be offered alternative learning options to complete their secondary education, such as drop-in programs, night school, or distance/online classes.\n\nAn increasing number of international students are attending pre-university courses at Canadian high schools.\n\nPost-secondary education in Canada is also the responsibility of the individual provinces and territories. Those governments provide the majority of funding to their public post-secondary institutions, with the remainder of funding coming from tuition fees, the federal government, and research grants. Compared to other countries in the past, Canada has had the highest tertiary school enrollment as a percentage of their graduating population.\n\nNearly all post-secondary institutions in Canada have the authority to grant academic credentials (i.e., diplomas or degrees). Generally speaking, universities grant degrees (e.g., bachelor's, master's or doctorate degrees) while colleges, which typically offer vocationally oriented programs, grant diplomas and certificates. However, some colleges offer applied arts degrees that lead to or are equivalent to degrees from a university. Private career colleges are overseen by legislative acts for each province. For example, in British Columbia training providers will be registered and accredited with the (PCTIA) Private Career Training Institutions Agency regulated under the Private Career Training Institutions Act (SBC 2003) Each province with their own correlating agency. Unlike the United States, there is no \"accreditation body\" that oversees the universities in Canada. Universities in Canada have degree-granting authority via an Act or Ministerial Consent from the Ministry of Education of the particular province.\n\nPost-secondary education in Quebec begins with college following graduation from Grade 11 (or Secondary V). Students complete a two- or three-year general program leading to admission to a university, or a professional program leading directly into the labour force. In most cases, bachelor's degree programs in Quebec are three years instead of the usual four; however, in many cases, students attending a university in Quebec that did not graduate from college must complete an additional year of coursework. When Ontario had five years of high school, a three-year bachelor's degree was common, but these degrees are being phased out in favour of the four-year degree.\n\nThe main variation between the provinces, with respect to the universities, is the amount of funding they receive and the amount of tuition and other fees they charge.\n\nThe Royal Military College of Canada (RMC), is the military academy of the Canadian Forces and is a full degree-granting university. RMC is the only federal institution with degree-granting powers.\n\nAbout 6% of Canadian tenth-graders are in private schools, most of which are in Quebec. A Statistics Canada study from 2015 found that these students tend to have higher test scores and future educational attainment than their public school counterparts. Rather than enjoying superior resources and educational practices, the most likely explanation for this discrepancy is the higher expectation of success that students experience from their parents, teachers, and fellow students.\n\nIn the past, private universities in Canada maintained a religious history or foundation. However, since 1999, the Province of New Brunswick passed the Degree Granting Act allowing private universities to operate in the Province. The University of Fredericton is the newest university to receive designation in New Brunswick.\n\nTrinity Western University, in Langley British Columbia, was founded in 1962 as a junior college and received full accreditation in 1985. In 2002, British Columbia's Quest University became the first privately funded liberal arts university without a denominational affiliation (although it is not the first private liberal arts university). Many provinces, including Ontario and Alberta, have passed legislation allowing private degree-granting institutions (not necessarily universities) to operate there.\n\nMany Canadians remain polarized on the issue of permitting private universities into the Canadian market. On the one hand, Canada's top universities find it difficult to compete with the private American powerhouses because of funding, but on the other hand, the fact that the price of private universities tends to exclude those who cannot pay that much for their education could prevent a significant portion of Canada's population from being able to attend these schools.\n\nIn addition to the issue of access, some Canadians find issue with protections instituted within the Charter of Rights and Freedoms as ruled by the Supreme Court of Canada in 2001 and consistent with federal and provincial law that (private) faith-based universities in Canada based on the long established principles of freedom of conscience and religion can exempt itself from more recent human rights legislation when they insist in their \"community covenant\" code signed by staff, faculty and students that they act in accordance with the faith of the school. The covenant may require restraint from those acts considered in contradiction with the tenets of their faith such as homosexual relationships, sex outside marriage or more broadly abstain from consuming alcohol on campus or viewing pornography. However, private-Christian based schools do not preclude homosexual or lesbian students from attending. Some faith-based universities have been known to fire staff and faculty which refused to adhere or whose actions were in opposition with the tenets of the faith, although in some provinces, their dismissals have been successfully challenged in court based on the circumstances.\n\nEach province deals differently with private religious schools. In Ontario the Catholic system continues to be fully publicly funded while other faiths are not. Ontario has several private Jewish, Islamic, and Christian schools all funded through tuition fees. Since the Catholic schools system is entrenched in the constitution, the Supreme Court has ruled that this system is constitutional. However, the United Nations Human Rights Committee has ruled that Ontario's system is discriminatory, suggesting that Ontario either fund no faith-based schools, or all of them. In 2002 the government of Mike Harris introduced a controversial program to partially fund all private schools, but this was criticized for undermining the public education system and the program was eliminated after the Liberals won the 2003 provincial election.\n\nIn other provinces privately operated religious schools are funded. In British Columbia the government pays independent schools that meet rigorous provincial standards up to 50% of the per-student operating cost of public schools. The province has a number of Sikh, Hindu, Christian, and Islamic schools. Alberta also has a network of charter schools, which are fully funded schools offering distinct approaches to education within the public school system. Alberta charter schools are not private and the province does not grant charters to religious schools. These schools have to follow the provincial curriculum and meet all standards, but are given considerable freedom in other areas. In all other provinces private religious schools receive some funding, but not as much as the public system.\n\nAn example of how schools can be divided by religion, Toronto has two English boards; Toronto Catholic District School Board and Toronto District School Board, and two French boards; Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud and Conseil scolaire Viamonde.\n\nAs the education system in Canada is managed by the varying provincial governments in Canada, the way the educational stages are grouped and named may differ from each region, or even between districts and individual schools. The ages are the age of the students when they end the school year in June.\n\n\n\nEnglish schools in Quebec have the same grade system as French schools, but with English names. For example, \"elementary school\" is not called \"école primaire\" in an English school, but has the same grading system.\n\nThe following table shows how grades are organized in various provinces. Often, there will be exceptions within each province, both with terminology for groups, and which grades apply to each group.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38227124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38227124", "title": "Estefanía Bacca", "text": "Estefanía Bacca\n\nEstefanía Bacca is an Argentine vedette, acrobat-dancer, actress, model and choreographer. She received her licence as dance instructor (specialist in musical comedy) in \"Instituto Universitario Nacional de Arte\" in Buenos Aires. She has modeled for \"Paparazzi Online\" and \"Maxim\" in Argentina.\n\nEstefanía started her theater career as a small role actress and simple burlesque dancer in revue shows from 2007 and 2010, all in the same company, \"Faroni Producciones\" of actress-comedian and director Carmen Barbieri and producer and founder of the company, Javier Faroni.\n\nIn late-2010 Bacca was convoced in the revue musical \"Excitante\" as the second vedette bested by Adabel Guerrero and Jésica Cirio in Mar del Plata. Estefanía was the second vedette on the magazine play \"El Anfitrión\" for the 2011–12 theatrical season in Villa Carlos Paz. The musical was led by María Martha Serra Lima as the lead attraction and Mónica González Listorti as the first vedette accompanied by her Bailando professional dance partner Maximiliano D'Iorio as the first dancer. The show's creative director was the Austrian vedette, Reina Reech. Also in the show as the actor-comedian, \"Cacho\" Buenaventura and the magician, \"Emanuel\". The musical debuted in Córdoba, Argentina, 16 December 2011 in the theater, Candilejas I. Bacca won an award for best vedette, for her work in \"El Anfitrión\".\n\nShe performed part of a non-musical theater comedy, Sin Comerla ni Beberla alongside René Bertrand, Sabrina Olmedo, Emiliano Rella, Belén Giménez, Pamela Sosa and Leandro Orowitz, directed by René Bertrand and produced-writing by Gerardo Sofovich in Mar del Plata. They debuted on 28 December 2012 in the theater Re Fa Si. Currently, Bacca is the lead vedette of the music hall, \"Divain\" in Mar del Plata, Argentina alongside Aníbal Pachano, Gustavo Wons, Maia Contreras, Nicolás Armengol and others. The theater show received six nomination including two for female revelations, one being for Estefanía.\n\n"}
{"id": "6807863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6807863", "title": "Frank McLaughlin (artist)", "text": "Frank McLaughlin (artist)\n\nFrank McLaughlin (born March 18, 1935) is an American comics artist who co-created the comic book character Judomaster, drew the comic strip \"Gil Thorp\", and assisted on such strips as \"Brenda Starr, Reporter\" and \"The Heart of Juliet Jones\". He also wrote and illustrated books about cartooning and comic art.\n\nMcLaughlin was raised in Stratford, Connecticut, and grew up inspired by the work of such magazine illustrators as Coby Whitmore, Joe Bowler and Howard Terpning, as well as such earlier illustrators as Gustav Klimt and Alfons Mucha, and such comic-strip artists such as Alex Raymond and Milton Caniff.\n\nHe studied art at the University of Bridgeport and the New Haven State Teachers College, both in Connecticut. McLaughlin's first professional art job, at \"about 17,\" was drawing belt buckles for a Bridgeport manufacturer's catalog.\n\nAfter college, McLaughlin, an avid baseball player, went to work for the brake manufacturer Raybestos, where he played for its internationally ranked fast-pitch softball team. After a year there, he was drafted into the U. S. Army, then returned to civilian life as a technical illustrator for Sikorsky Aircraft.\n\nMcLaughlin entered the comic book industry in the early 1960s. A college friend recommended him to editor Pat Masulli at Charlton Comics in Derby, Connecticut, who hired McLaughlin as his assistant. \"There were no art directors or assistant editors or any other job titles\", McLaughlin said in a 2000 interview. \"[I did] everything from proofreading to art corrections, lettering titles for [editor] Ernie Hart's books, traffic managing, liaison with the Comics Code, and anything else, including cleaning the storeroom\". He did occasional, uncredited inking on late comic books, including on \"a couple\" of stories by Steve Ditko.\n\nCreator credits were not routinely given in comics during this era, and McLaughlin's earliest known probable credit is inking penciler Dick Giordano on the cover of, and a seven-page story in, Charlton's \"Battlefield Action\" #39 (Dec. 1961). McLaughlin's first confirmed credit is full pencil and ink art on the five-page story \"And the Light Shall Come\" in the same publisher's \"Reptisaurus\" #8 (Dec. 1962).\n\nGiordano later became Charlton's editor after, McLaughlin said, he himself had turned down the job: \"[Giordano] was a freelancer at the time, and then he hired me to work with him after I got through working at Charlton 9 to 5, and I'd go over to his studio, and then later on, we kind of swapped jobs, because there was a change at Charlton, and I think Pat [Masulli] was moving up, and they offered me his job. I opted to stay freelance and suggested Dick for the job. He became editor and I took over the studio,\" which artist Jon D'Agostino and writer Joe Gill would soon join.\n\nMcLaughlin, who became Charlton's art director by 1962, worked throughout the Charlton line, including on the superhero titles \"Blue Beetle\", \"Captain Atom\", and \"Son of Vulcan\", the adventure comic \"The Fightin' 5\", the supernatural/science-fiction anthologies \"Strange Suspense Stories\" and \"Mysteries of Unexplored Worlds\", and the espionage comic \"Sarge Steel\", where martial artist McLaughlin's backup features, \"The Sport of Judo\" and \"What is Karate?,\" presaged the original character he would create with writer Joe Gill.\nThat character, Judomaster, debuted in \"Special War Series\" #4 (Nov. 1965), the final issue of that series, and continued in his own series, beginning with \"Judomaster\" #89 (June 1966), taking over the numbering of the defunct Western series \"Gunmaster\". The series, which McLaughlin almost immediately began scripting as well, starred an American soldier in the South Pacific during World War II, who, after saving a native island girl from a Japanese sniper, was taught martial arts by her grateful grandfather. He acquired a costume based on the Japanese military flag, and, in issue #93 (Feb. 1967), a sidekick, Tiger. The series ended at #98 (Dec. 1967), and the character was later purchased by DC Comics in 1983, during Charlton's final years.\n\nFollowing McLaughlin's final Charlton work, penciling the cover and both penciling and inking the seven-page story \"The Living Legend\" in the comic strip spin-off comic book \"The Phantom\" #30 (Feb. 1969), McLaughlin began to freelance. After a smattering of work that including inking an eight-page teen humor story in DC Comics' \"Debbi's Dates\" #10 (Nov. 1970) and a seven-page story in Warren Publishing's black-and-white horror-comics magazine \"Eerie\" #34 (July 1971), McLaughlin circa 1971 began assisting comic-strip artist Stan Drake on the naturalistic soap-opera strip \"The Heart of Juliet Jones\". McLaughlin, at Giordano's suggestion, had shown samples of his work to the Westport, Connecticut-based Drake, who hired him to succeed assistant Tex Blaisdell, who had left to draw \"Little Orphan Annie\". \"I would pencil and ink just about everything that wasn't a main figure,\" McLaughlin said.\n\nThe following year, McLaughlin began to work steadily for industry leaders DC Comics and Marvel Comics. His first work for the former was inking Win Mortimer on a Zatanna story in \"Adventure Comics\" #421 (July 1972), and his first for the latter was inking Jim Mooney on a romance comics story in \"Our Love Story\" #18 (Aug. 1972).\n\nSettling into his career as an inker, McLaughlin became ensconced at Marvel, inking the likes of Wayne Boring on \"Captain Marvel\" and Sal Buscema on both \"Captain America\" and \"The Defenders\" before becoming primarily a DC inker. Throughout the 1970s, McLaughlin inked backup stories featuring the Atom, Black Lightning, Zatanna, and \"The Fabulous World of Krypton\", among others. He became the regular series inker for penciler Dick Dillin's \"Justice League of America\", and for some issues of penciler Ernie Chan's Batman stories in \"Detective Comics\", and Joe Staton's \"Green Lantern\". Concurrently, he wrote martial-arts articles for Marvel's black-and-white comics magazine \"The Deadly Hands of Kung Fu\".\n\nIn the 1980s McLaughlin was regular inker on penciler Carmine Infantino's \"The Flash\", Gene Colan's \"Wonder Woman\", and Dan Jurgens' \"Green Arrow\", among other assignments. He also inked Steve Ditko on the first two issues of A.C.E. Comics' short-lived series \"What Is...The Face?\" (Dec. 1986 and April 1987), and for the same company wrote, co-penciled and co-inked the single issue of \"Big Edsel Band\" (Sept. 1987), starring the modern-day retro-1950s band. During the following decade, while continuing to draw for DC, McLaughlin expanded to Acclaim Comics and Broadway Comics. His last known comics work is Broadway's \"Fatale\" #6 (Oct. 1996), inking J. G. Jones.\n\nAside from his stint on \"The Heart of Juliet Jones\" in the early 1970s, McLaughlin also worked on such comic strips as \"Brenda Starr, Reporter\", assisting Dale Messick; \"Nancy\"; and \"The World's Greatest Superheroes\". From 2001, he took over the art for Jack Berrill's Tribune Media comic strip \"Gil Thorp\", drawing the sports feature through 2008.\n\nMcLaughlin has taught at the Paier College of Art in Hamden, Connecticut, and Guy Gilchrist's Cartoonist's Academy in Simsbury, Connecticut. He co-developed the literacy program \"Writing to Read\" for the JHM Corporation through Nova University, in which comic-book storytelling was used to teach and encourage reading.\n\nHis books include \"How to Draw Those Bodacious Bad Babes of Comics\" (Renaissance Books, 2000, ) and \"How to Draw Monsters for Comics\" (Renaissance Books, 2001, ), both with Mike Gold.\n\nMcLaughlin practiced judo from ages 18 to 50, initially studying at Joe Costa's Academy of Judo. He married at age 30, in 1965, living then in Derby, Connecticut, and working in a studio in nearby Ansonia before moving back to his home town of Stratford. As of 2000, he has two grown children: daughter Erin and son Terry. He has a brother, James McLaughlin, whose daughter, Anne McLaughlin, is also a professional artist.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16617729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16617729", "title": "Gregory Ivy", "text": "Gregory Ivy\n\nGregory Ivy (1904–1985) was chairman of the art department at Woman's College, now the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, from 1935 to 1961. He was born on May 7, 1904, in Clarksburg Missouri, to Bennet Monroe Ivy and Fanni B. Dowler.\n\nHe attended Tipton High School in Tipton, Missouri, where he graduated in 1922. In 1926, Ivy received a general diploma from the State Teachers College (now Central Missouri State University) in Warrensville, Missouri where he completed his bachelor of science degree from the same college, with majors in art and history and a minor in economics. After graduating in 1928, Ivy taught junior and senior high school art classes in St. Louis, beginning a long career as an artist and a teacher.\n\nIn 1931 Ivy received his M.A. from Teachers College at Columbia University in New York. He majored in painting and minored in design. From 1932 to 1935, he taught at the States Teachers College in Indiana, PA (now Indiana University of Pennsylvania) before accepting a position as head of the art department at Woman’s College in Greensboro, NC in 1935, where he was instrumental in founding and developing the art department and establishing The Weatherspoon Art Gallery.\n\nWhile at Woman’s College, Gregory Ivy helped start the MFA program, which until 1950, was the only art department in North Carolina to have both MFA and BFA degrees. Ivy also introduced the first industrial design class in the United States for college women. He was president of the Southeastern College Art Conference of college art teachers, and appointed director of the Burnsville School of Fine Arts in 1952.\n\nIvy resigned from Woman’s College in 1961 and he and his wife moved to California in 1965 where he had accepted a position as an art professor and chairman of the art department at California State College at Fullerton. He retired in 1971 and moved to Springfield, Missouri where he died in 1985.\n\nGregory Ivy's work has been exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, State Art Gallery in Raleigh, the Mint Museum, Art Institute of Chicago, and the Weatherspoon Art Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14218317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14218317", "title": "Human performance technology", "text": "Human performance technology\n\nHuman performance technology (HPT), also known as human performance improvement (HPI), or human performance assessment (HPA), is a field of study related to process improvement methodologies such as lean management, Six Sigma, lean Six Sigma, organization development, motivation, instructional technology, human factors, learning, performance support systems, knowledge management, and training. It is focused on improving performance at the societal, organizational, process, and individual performer levels. \n\nHPT \"uses a wide range of interventions that are drawn from many other disciplines, including total quality management, process improvement, behavioral psychology, instructional systems design, organizational development, and human resources management\" (ISPI, 2007). It stresses a rigorous analysis of requirements at the societal, organizational process and individual levels as appropriate to identify the causes for performance gaps, provide appropriate interventions to improve and sustain performance, and finally to evaluate the results against the requirements.\n\nThe field of HPT, also referred to as Performance Improvement, emerged from the fields of educational technology and instructional technology in the 1950s and 1960s. In the post war period, application of the Instructional Systems Design (ISD) model was not consistently returning the desired improvements to organizational performance. This led the emergence of HPT as a separate field from ISD in the late 1960s to early 1970s when the National Society for Programmed Instruction was renamed the National Society for Performance and Instruction (NSPI) and then again to the International Society for Performance Improvement (ISPI) in 1995. (Chyung, 2008) HPT evolved as a systemic and systematic approach to address complex types of performance issues and to assist in the proper diagnosis and implementation of solutions to close performance gaps among individuals.\n\nThe origins of HPT can be primarily traced back to the work of Thomas Gilbert, Geary Rummler, Karen Brethower, Roger Kaufman, Bob Mager, Donald Tosti, Lloyd Homme and Joe Harless. They (Gilbert and Rummler in particular) were the pioneers of the field. Any serious investigation of early and later citations of Gilbert and Rummler's work will reveal subsequent academic and professional leaders in the field.\n\nA major factor in the rise to prominence of what would become HPT was the publication of \"Analyzing Performance Problems\" in 1970 by Robert F. Mager and Peter Pipe. The success of their book, subtitled \"You Really Oughta Wanna,\" served to draw attention to and expand awareness of the many factors affecting human performance in addition to the knowledge and skills of the performer. The Further Reading section of the 1970 edition of their book also cites a seminal paper by Karen S. Brethower: \"Maintenance Systems: The Neglected Half of Behavior Change,\" which contains an early version of a performance deficiency analysis algorithm developed by Geary Rummler, then at the University of Michigan. Rummler, along with Tom Gilbert, would go on to found Praxis Corporation, a firm focused on improving performance. Later, Rummler would join forces with Alan Brache and the two of them would author \"Improving Performance\", with a clear and expanded focus on process and organizational performance. In a related vein, Joe Harless was at work developing and refining his own approach to expanding and refining the way problems of human performance were being approached. In 1970, the same year Mager & Pipe published their landmark book, Harless, with the assistance of his associate and another notable in the field, Claude Lineberry, published \"An Ounce of Analysis\" (Is Worth A Pound of Objectives). This was the beginning of what became known as \"Front-End Analysis (FEA).\"\n\nHPT professionals work in many different performance settings such as corporate, educational institutions, and the military (Bolin, 2007).\n\nThe International Society for Performance Improvement defines HPT as:\n\n\"a systematic approach to improving productivity and competence, uses a set of methods and procedures -- and a strategy for solving problems -- for realizing opportunities related to the performance of people. More specific, it is a process of selection, analysis, design, development, implementation, and evaluation of programs to most cost-effectively influence human behavior and accomplishment. It is a systematic combination of three fundamental processes: performance analysis, cause analysis, and intervention selection, and can be applied to individuals, small groups, and large organizations.\"(ISPI, 2012)\n\nA simpler definition of HPT is a systematic approach to improving individual and organizational performance (Pershing, 2006).\n\nA common misunderstanding of the word technology with regards to HPT is that it relates to information technologies. In HPT, technology refers to the specialized aspects of the field of Human Performance. Technology: the application of scientific knowledge for practical purposes, esp. in industry. A branch of knowledge dealing with engineering or applied science. \n\nThe International Society for Performance Improvement has developed a glossary of HPT related terms.\n\n\nAn HPT Model is available for viewing at the ispi.org website.\n\nThe International Society for Performance Improvement (ISPI) codified a series of Standards in an effort to raise the quality of HPT practice:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2478622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2478622", "title": "Ian D'Sa", "text": "Ian D'Sa\n\nIan D'Sa (born October 30, 1975) is an English-born Canadian guitarist for the band Billy Talent. He is of Goan background.\n\nIan was born in the suburb of Southall, London UK. His family moved to Canada when he was 3 years old. He grew up in Mississauga, Ontario learning guitar at the age of 13. He attended Our Lady of Mount Carmel Secondary School. In 1991 he formed a band named Dragonflower with some fellow schoolmates. After Dragonflower broke up he formed another band named Soluble Fish and recorded a five song demo entitled Nugget Sauces. He eventually met Benjamin Kowalewicz, Jonathan Gallant and Aaron Solowoniuk in 1993 at a high school talent show. He started a new band with them named Pezz (later to become \"Billy Talent\") while also playing in Soluble Fish. Both bands played shows together until Soluble Fish broke up in 1996. Still playing with Pezz, D'Sa went to Sheridan College where he got his degree in classical animation and has worked on the TV shows \"Angela Anaconda\", \"Birdz\", and the film \"Adventures in 3-D IMAX\" as a character animator. Pezz changed their name to Billy Talent a few years later in 1998.\n\nIn 1998 Pezz changed their name to Billy Talent after the fictional character in Micheal Turner's Hard Core Logo book (later adapted to film by Bruce McDonald). D'Sa co-produced Billy Talent II with Gavin Brown. He also did art direction and package design on the album. He received co-direction credit for the video \"Fallen Leaves\", for which the band was awarded Best Video and Best Rock Video at the 2007 MuchMusic Video Awards. Released in September 2012, the fourth album of the band, \"Dead Silence\", was produced entirely by D'Sa. He was nominated for Producer of the Year at the 2017 Juno Awards for his work on the band's fifth album, \"Afraid of Heights\".\n\nD'Sa produced his first two singles on Die Mannequin's EP Slaughter Daughter, the songs being \"Do it or Die\" and \"Saved By Strangers\". He played guitar on Sarah Slean's song \"Lucky Me\". He makes a cameo in The Operation M.D.'s single \"Sayonara\" as a doctor pushing Stevo in a wheelchair. He also makes a brief cameo as a year book photo in the K-OS video for ELEctrik HeaT – The Seekwill. He also sang guest vocals with Alexisonfire during a few live shows. \n\nD'Sa is known for making unexpected appearances at other bands' live shows and to guest as vocalist sometimes with Alexisonfire. He joined Sum 41 as a guest guitarist for a one-off performance of their popular encore song \"Pain for Pleasure\", and also performed as a guest in one show with UK band Reuben in 2006, while the band supported Billy Talent. He produced the first single \"Buried at Sea\" from The Operation M.D.'s second studio album \"Birds + Bee Stings\", which was released on June 29, 2010. D'Sa has been involved with Song for Africa since 2007, a project to connect Canada's youth to the AIDS pandemic, playing guitar on the song and in the video and single. In July 2007 he traveled to Kenya, Africa for 10 days to be part of the Song for Africa Documentary film. Ian also wrote and recorded the song \"Land of a Thousand Hills\" for the benefit album \"\", in which he sings lead vocals and plays guitar with Canadian punk rock band Noble Blood. In November 2012, he contributed a guitar solo to the song \"Toast to Freedom\" recorded by Anti-Flag for Amnesty International as a benefit single. He played solo in the video for the song. He and fellow Billy Talent bandmate Ben Kowalewicz also appeared in the music video for Emigrate's \"1234\", whom Ben provided co-lead vocals for.\n\nWhen playing live shows, D'Sa plays an Olympic White Fender Stratocaster Fat Strat Deluxe with a black pickguard loaded with Seymour Duncan JB Trembucker pickups. He also plays a Montego Black Stratocaster Fat Strat Deluxe with a red pickguard loaded with Seymour Duncan JB Trembucker pickups. When recording in the studio, his favourite guitars are a '52 Fender Telecaster Reissue (nicknamed \"Crispy Chicken\"), a '72 Fender Telecaster Deluxe (nicknamed \"Rooster\"), a '57 Gibson Les Paul Junior and several other vintage guitars. \n\nD'Sa has said that \"Crispy Chicken\" is one of his main recording guitars, and has been used on all five Billy Talent albums along with other guitars such as his '57 Junior, for overdubs. He also owns a three colour sunburst stratocaster with a white pick guard, which is shown in the \"Devil in a Midnight Mass\" music video. His main live amp setup consists of a 60 watt head custom made by Mark Stephenson of Stephenson Amplification in 2002, along with a Diezel VH4.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31204157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31204157", "title": "Ignition (student training)", "text": "Ignition (student training)\n\nIgnition is a transition and mentorship program that is implemented in high schools across the United States. The program was developed and trademarked by Focus Training, a leadership development company in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The goal of Ignition is to build student relationships and make transition from middle school to high school a positive experience for students, administrators, and teachers. The program utilizes upperclassmen to act as mentors to incoming freshmen for the entire 9th grade school year. Mentors help freshmen acclimate to the high school environment, deal with the challenges of the new school, and learn successful behaviors. As of 2010 the Ignition program is implemented at over 220 schools nationwide and serves over 100,000 students and educators.\n\nStep 1 Consult - Professional Development, Training and Consulting for Staff.\n\nFOCUS Training works with a team of educators to build a program that fits each school’s needs by considering mentor recruitment, time, space, budget, class size, related program and learning objectives. This stage teaches Ignition advisors how to run each aspect of the program.\n\nStep 2 Synergize – Professional Development and Organizational Structure for Mentors.\n\nAt this phase recruited Ignition mentors learn how to do their job by developing leadership skills, understanding how to manage the organization, and planning for a full year of mentorship and activities. At the conclusion of this day committees have formed, and each committee has several well developed goals to guide their efforts in preparation the first day.\n\nStep 3 Train – Facilitation Training for Mentors and Preparation for Orientation.\n\nMentors learn how to facilitate the low ropes course activities and manage all aspects of the Ignite and Fuel activities. Mentors learn how to provide safe, interactive, and educational training for their team of new students.\n\nStep 4 Ignite – Orientation Day.\n\nThe first day of school which presents new freshmen with an exciting introduction to high school. Students undergo various team building activities including: an adventure course, large group activities, a mock schedule, and an assembly.\n\nStep 5 Fuel – Comprehensive Social and Academic Skill Curriculum.\n\nThis year-long curriculum includes 60 teaching guides and supporting documentation that help mentors facilitate small group activities and discussions about topics that affect new students. These include: study habits, involvement, respect, exams, career exploration, healthy choices, test taking, tolerance and bullying, body image, and more. Mentors meet with new students two to four times per month.\n\nStep 6 Refresh – Ongoing training for mentors and preparation for next year.\n\nIn this stage Ignition Advisors and mentors work out any first semester challenges and continue to improve the program overall. It is a time for mentors to sharpen their facilitation skills and prepare for successful Fuel activities for the second semester. All preparations for next year will also be organized.\n\n"}
{"id": "58831268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58831268", "title": "Institute of Indonesian Arts and Culture, Bandung", "text": "Institute of Indonesian Arts and Culture, Bandung\n\nInstitute of Indonesian Arts and Culture, Bandung (, abbreviated as ISBI Bandung), is a state, arts and cultural-oriented educational institution located in Bandung, Indonesia.\n\nIt was founded in 1968, replacing \"Dance Conservatory\" and \"Bandung Academy of Indonesian Dance\". It became the first and only arts institution in Bandung, Indonesia. \n\nThe institute allows foreigners who are interested in learning Indonesian traditional arts and culture to enroll directly as an international student or exchange student.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27846718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27846718", "title": "Institute of Theology of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church", "text": "Institute of Theology of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church\n\nThe Institute of Theology of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church () is a private university in Tallinn, Estonia, established in 1946. It is situated next to the Church of the Holy Spirit, Tallinn.\n\n"}
{"id": "46940873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46940873", "title": "Intellipaat", "text": "Intellipaat\n\nIntellipaat is an e-learning and professional certification company for software developers, IT administrators, and other professionals, headquartered in Bangalore, India. The training is offered in three major modes: Online instructor Led Trainings, Self-paced e-learning trainings, and Corporate Trainings.\n\nThe company offers more than 150 courses on skills like Big Data, Data Science, Business Intelligence, Mobile Development, Databases, and Cloud Computing. Intellipaat conducts corporate training programmes for clients including Ericsson, Genpact, Wipro, Cognizant and TCS, and has trained more than 7,00,000 professionals. In March 2017, Intellipaat launched Big Data Hadoop training with IBM.\n\nIntellipaat is a fast-growing e-learning institute with branches in India, the United States and the United Kingdom. The company is headed by the duo of Shilpi Jain and Diwakar Chittora.\n\nIntellipaat today has some of the biggest names in the IT training industry as its exclusive clients for upskilling their workforce and keeping them in sync with the changing technology landscape. Intellipaat clients include Ericsson, Wipro, Cognizant and others . Intellipaat is on the way to clock a revenue of $10 Million by 2019. Intellipaat boasts of a learner base of over 6,00,000 and counting. \n\nIntellipaat is well on its way to grow into one of the biggest names in the edtech space due to their high quality & economical pricing for all training courses\n\n"}
{"id": "4456905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4456905", "title": "International Student Identity Card", "text": "International Student Identity Card\n\nThe International Student Identity Card (ISIC) is an identity card and discount card issued by the ISIC Association to students, and offers discounts for travel, insurance, and various goods. The ISIC Association also issues International Youth Travel Card (IYTC) for non-students, and International Teacher Identity Card (ITIC) for teachers and professors. The membership fee varies by countries. In the United Kingdom it costs £12.00 a year.\n\nThe card is recognized internationally. An ISIC card can only be issued to genuine bona fide students. ISIC cardholders can use the card to identify themselves as a student around the world. The ISIC card is managed and administered by the ISIC Association. The objective of the ISIC Association is to help improve intercultural understanding and increase education opportunities. The ISIC card is issued in 133 countries.\n\nThe ISIC Association is one of eight sector associations of the WYSE Travel Confederation. It manages and administers the International Student Identity Card (ISIC). The ISIC Association is a non-profit membership organisation legally registered in Denmark. The members are the organisations that hold the exclusive rights to distribute, promote and develop the ISIC card within their territory or country. These organisations are referred to as ‘ISIC Exclusive Representatives’. Exclusive Representatives include student travel organisations, national student unions and dedicated ISIC card development organisations.\n\nThe ISIC card is administered and managed at a global level by the ISIC Global Office B.V.. The ISIC Global Office B.V. is a company seated in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The ISIC Global Office B.V. is wholly owned by the ISIC Association.\n\nFollowing World War II and the Cold War, the Western world was focused on mutual cooperation and understanding in order to prevent a resurgence of fascism. This atmosphere gave impetus for student organisations to form, with the aim of working together for peace and cooperation throughout the world. \nOne such student organisation, the International Student Conference (ISC) held their 3rd ISC at the Studenterforeningen’s Hus in Copenhagen. It was attended by National Unions of Students and Coordinating Secretariat of National Unions of Students (COSEC), Denmark, amongst others. The attending student organisations made the decision to establish a single international identity document valid for the perceived need of travel concessions. This is the first documented mention of the International Student Identity Card (ISIC).\nRepresentatives of the ISC were also representatives of the International Student Travel Conference (ISTC). At the 4th International Student Travel Conference (ISTC), and following the decision made at the 3rd International Student Conference (ISC), the Norwegian and Netherlands Union of Students, in co-operation with COSEC, presented a document based on a Survey of the Council of Europe. The document concluded that the formation of an international student card would be of benefit to students while travelling. The Norwegian and Netherlands Union of Students, in co-operation with COSEC accepted responsibility to form a Travel Aids Commission and “take the necessary steps to ensure that an International Student Identity Card be made available as soon as possible in as large a part of the world as possible”. Thus, the International Student Identity Card was founded with the aim to provide students worldwide with access to student facilities, wherever they travelled. It was agreed that the real value of the card would prove that the holder was a “bona fide” student. The first ISIC cards were produced by the Travel Aids Commission managed by the ISTC. 56,000 cards were issued amongst 31 countries in the first year.\n\nFrom 1955 UNESCO joined the International Student Travel Conference and supported the ISIC card. In 1968 UNESCO issued an official endorsement in full support of the ISIC card. UNESCO recognised the ISIC card as the only internationally accepted proof of full-time student status and a unique document encouraging cultural exchange and international understanding. A renewed Memorandum of Understanding was signed in 1993. The UNESCO logo has appeared on the ISIC card since 1993.\n\nIn October 2013 the ISIC Association was officially appointed as an Affiliate Member of the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO).\n\nIn the new millennium the need for a student card orientated to travel concessions was becoming less relevant than before due to societal changes such as worldwide economic decline, introduction of budget airlines, online flight booking and direct airline sales. Due to this decline, it was identified that the ISIC card and focus must be repositioned. Up until 2001, the ISIC card existed as a travel card and a student identity card but it was agreed that the discount aspect must be utilised and the card refocused as an everyday student lifestyle card.\n\nISIC Exclusive Representatives, who have the exclusive rights to issue ISIC cards in their respective countries, make up a global distribution network for ISIC cards. The ISIC card is available in 130 countries. In each country, the ISIC Exclusive Representative is exclusively responsible for ISIC card distribution, promotion and development, including the development and managing a portfolio of local and national discounts and services available to the ISIC holders.\n\nEligibility for an ISIC card is restricted to bona fide students engaged in higher or tertiary education and students in full-time secondary education. Students must be a minimum of 12 years old to be eligible. There is no upper age limit for an ISIC card.\nAn ISIC card is valid for 16 months. The validity period of an ISIC card corresponds to the academic year in the country of purchase. For example, in countries where the academic year starts in September (e.g. countries in the Northern Hemisphere), the ISIC card is valid from 1 September to 31 December the following year. In countries with the academic year begins in December (e.g. countries in the Southern Hemisphere), the ISIC card is valid from 1 December to 31 March, 16 months later.\nThere is an advised national retail selling price for the ISIC card in each country where the card is issued. The card price in each country is determined by the value of the ISIC in the local market and the countries economic development level.\n\nAn ISIC card can be combined with a bank or university card. This creates a unique combined card with the aim to reach and provide services to a common or overlapping market. Currently 102 banks and more than 839 universities worldwide have merged their cards with the ISIC card.\n\nThe ISIC card is endorsed and supported as an official proof of student status by various organisations and institutions locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. Organisations that endorse the ISIC card include national governments, ministries of education and tourism, universities, other academic institutions and student organisations internationally.\n\nThe ISIC card has been endorsed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) since 1968. UNESCO recognises the ISIC card as a unique document encouraging cultural exchange and international understanding.\n\nISIC has built relationships with global organisations that provide discounts and services to ISIC holders or allow for increased distribution of the ISIC card into the global student community. Global ISIC partners include:\n\nThe ISIC Event is an annual event for ISIC issuers, global partners, endorsement partners, student union bodies, and other organisations involved in the international student community. Coordinated and managed by the ISIC Global Office B.V., the annual three-day gathering is an event. ISIC Events are hosted by a different country each year.\n\nThe ISIC Award was introduced by the ISIC Association in 2011. The ISIC Award recognises and rewards organisations working on a global scale to reduce social, economic and cultural barriers and increase access to education. The ISIC Award is awarded annually.\nThrough the ISIC card the ISIC Association aims to ensure individuals who aspire to participate in higher education have the help and resources to enable them to do so. The intention of the ISIC Award is to support existing education accessibility initiatives.\nThe ISIC Award winner is nominated and selected by the ISIC card distributors worldwide. Nominees for the ISIC Award can be a non-government organisation, institution, association, or similar organisation that are able to clearly demonstrate a commitment to making education more accessible. \nThe ISIC Award winner receives a financial contribution to support the continuation of their work to increase access to education. Previous award winners include AIESEC International (2011), the International Association of Universities (IAU) (2012), the University of the People (2013), and the Institute of International Education (2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "37768875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37768875", "title": "Ismael Montes Teacher Training College", "text": "Ismael Montes Teacher Training College\n\nThe Ismael Montes Teacher Training College (Escuela Superior de Formación de Maestros \"Ismael Montes\" or ESFM \"Ismael Montes\") is an institution of public higher education under the authority of the Ministry of Education of Bolivia, also known as Normal de Vacas.\n\nIts facilities are situated in Challwa Mayu, Vacas Municipality, Arani Province, Cochabamba Department, about 1 km north west of Vacas.\n\nOne distinctive feature of this institution is that it prepares bilingual, Quechua and Spanish speaking teachers, for primary as well as for secondary education. \n\n"}
{"id": "24651863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24651863", "title": "Javed Khan Amrohi", "text": "Javed Khan Amrohi\n\nJaved Khan Amrohi (), \nis an Indian film and television actor who has acted in various films, amounting to approx. 150 Hindi films.\n\nHe is best known for his role in Academy Award-nominated \"\" (2001), \"Andaz Apna Apna\" (1994) and the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer \"Chak De! India\" (2007). He has also worked in TV series like \"Mirza Ghalib\", directed by Gulzar and as Karim (the barber) in \"Nukkad\", directed by Saeed Akhtar Mirza in the 1980s.\n\nHe is also a member of the Acting faculty at ZIMA, Zee Institute of Media Arts in Mumbai of Zee TV.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57049567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57049567", "title": "Jefta van Dinther", "text": "Jefta van Dinther\n\nJefta van Dinther (born March 4, 1980 in Utrecht) is a Dutch-Swedish choreographer and dancer. Today van Dinther lives and works in Berlin and Stockholm.\n\nVan Dinther grew up in the Netherlands and Sweden. From 1999 to 2003 he attended Amsterdam School of the Arts, where he studied Modern and Contemporary Dance. He worked as a dancer with various choreographers, including Mette Ingvartsen, Xavier Le Roy and Ivana Müller. Since 2008 he has been creating his own performances as a choreographer.\n\nVan Dinther's performances are regularly presented at international venues and festivals, such as at Volksbühne, HAU Hebbel am Ufer, Sadler's Wells in London, Tanzquartier in Vienna, Centre Georges Pompidou and Théâtre national de Chaillot in Paris, as well as at the festivals Tanz im August in Berlin, Festival TransAmériques in Montreal and at ImPulsTanz in Vienna. \n\nIn addition to producing his own pieces, van Dinther teaches choreography at various institutions, including Stockholm University of the Arts, where he was appointed senior lecturer and artistic director of the master program in choreography between 2012 and 2014.\n\nMany of his performances are created in collaboration with lighting designer Minna Tiikkainen and sound designer David Kiers, with whom van Dinther has worked for many years. Most of van Dinther's performances are produced by himself, but his work has also been commissioned by the Swedish Cullberg Ballet (\"Plateau Effect\" in 2013 and \"Protagonist\" in 2016).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12548096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12548096", "title": "Kaiwo Maru (1989)", "text": "Kaiwo Maru (1989)\n\nHer keel was laid by Sumitomo Heavy Industries on July 8, 1988 at the Uraga shipyard, near Yokohama, Japan. She was launched on March 7, 1989. \"Kaiwo Maru\" was commissioned on September 12, 1989. She is a four masted barque, over 110 meters in length, with a complement of 199. She is a sister ship of \"Nippon Maru\".\n\nOn 20 Oct. 2004, \"Kaiwo Maru\" was nearly lost in Typhoon Tokage, while sheltering outside the port of Fushiki in the Bay of Toyama, Japan. She dragged her anchor and grounded on a breakwater, receiving severe damage. Her crew of 167, mostly young cadets, was evacuated. Helicopters responded, but were unable to drop lines. So rescuers fixed ropes to the breakwater and crewmembers climbed along them. Thirty were injured, including some with broken bones. Her captain later accepted responsibility. A month later she was lifted by a floating crane and returned to Uraga shipyard. The ship sailed again in January 2006 after major repairs.\n\n\"Kaiwo Maru\" is a regular participant in international tall ship gatherings such as Operation Sail and is a multiple winner of the Boston Teapot Trophy. In 2010, \"Kaiwo Maru\" visited San Francisco, California to commemorate the 1860 voyage of the \"Kanrin Maru\", the first Japanese ship to officially visit the United States. About 90 percent of the journey was made under sail, and they brought one passenger, a retired businessman who is descended from one of the original \"Kanrin Maru\" crew members.\n\nIn March 2011, \"Kaiwo Maru\" was on a voyage from Japan to Honolulu, Hawaii when an earthquake and tsunami struck Japan. She was subsequently diverted to Ōkuma, Fukushima where she served as accommodation for workers tackling the nuclear crisis at the Fukushima I Nuclear Power Plant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8800353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8800353", "title": "Kenneth Merchant", "text": "Kenneth Merchant\n\nKenneth Merchant holds the Deloitte and Touche LLP Chair of Accountancy at the Leventhal School of Accounting, part of the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California. He is the former dean of the Leventhal School.\n\nDr. Merchant is the author of many articles and books on accounting, including the standard textbooks:\n\nIn this book Merchant describes three forms of control: control of specific actions, control of results and control of personnel. When knowledge of which specific actions are desirable is excellent, it is always a good thing to control specific actions. When the ability to measure results on important performance dimensions is high, it is always a good thing to control results. When it is difficult to know which specific actions are desirable and when it is difficult as well to measure the results, the optimal control is the personnel control.\nDr. Merchant previously taught at Harvard Business School, currently serves on eight editorial boards, and served on the Board of Directors of Entropic Communications, a publicly-listed company that was acquired.\n\nHis Ph.D. is from the University of California at Berkeley. His M.B.A. is from Columbia Business School. His B.S. is from Union College.\n\n"}
{"id": "47451004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47451004", "title": "Kristin Neff", "text": "Kristin Neff\n\nKristin Neff is an associate professor in the University of Texas at Austin's department of educational psychology. She created the Self-compassion Scales. The long scale consists of 26 items and the short scale consists of 12 items. She has been credited with conducting the first academic studies into self-compassion.\n"}
{"id": "1343032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343032", "title": "List of Friends schools", "text": "List of Friends schools\n\nFriends schools are institutions that provide an education based on the beliefs and testimonies of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). This article is a list of schools currently or historically associated with the Society of Friends, regardless of their current degree of affiliation.\n\nFriends schools vary greatly, both in their interpretation of Quaker principles and in how they relate to formal organizations that make up the Society of Friends. Most Friends schools are similar in their mission however: to provide an academically sound education while also instilling values of community, spirituality, responsibility and stewardship in their students.\n\nSome institutions founded by Friends were never formally \"Quaker schools.\" Some historically Friends institutions are no longer formally associated with the Society of Friends. Those that continue to call themselves \"Quaker schools\" may have formal oversight from a Friends yearly or monthly meetings (often called coming \"under care of\" a meeting), and others are governed by members of the Society of Friends and/or adhere to aspects of Quaker practice.\n\nBecause of the wide range of Friends, the branch (or branches) of Quakerism with which the school affiliates are included, and where applicable the Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly Meeting under whose care or governance the school is held is shown.\n\n\n\nBolivian Friends have established several schools, which are supported from the United States by the Bolivian Quaker Education Fund.\n\n\n\n\n\"For Northern Ireland, see Ireland below.\"\n\n\nNon-Friends schools with Friends connections\n\nDefunct Friends schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll Quaker schools and yearly meetings in Kenya are affiliated with Friends United Meeting. Note that the Friends World Committee for Consultation counts, but does not name, many more Kenyan Friends schools than are listed here,\n\n\n\n\nAbbreviations:\n\n\n\"\"Independent Quaker schools\" are operated using Quaker principles and often include a majority of Quakers among trustees, but are not formally under care of a meeting.\"\n\n\n\n\"Note: This section lists schools with grades only below 9th grade. Schools including high school grades are listed above.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26891264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26891264", "title": "List of institutions offering type design education", "text": "List of institutions offering type design education\n\nThe following is a list of institutions offering type design education.\n\nType design (also: typeface design, \"pop.\" font design), the art of creating typefaces, is taught at art and design colleges around the world. A small number of institutions offer a degree in type design; many others offer type design courses as part of their BA or MA curriculum in Graphic Design or Visual Communication. When no full type design course is offered, schools may invite type designers to give workshops; these one-off events are not listed in the overview below.\n\nUniversidad de Buenos Aires\nFADU/UBA, Secretaría de Posgrado\n\"MT-UBA, Maestría en Tipografía\"\nDegree:\n\nCentro Universitário Senac, São Paulo\nPós-graduação Senac-SP\n\"Curso de Pós-graduação em Tipografia\"\nDegree: \"Lato sensu\" postgraduate\n\nÉcole Estienne, Paris\nAtelier de Création Typographique\n\"DSAA Création Typographique\"\nDegree: Master 1\n\nÉcole supérieure d’art et de design, Amiens\nPost-diplôme Systèmes graphiques, language et typographie\n\"Post-diplôme Ésad Amiens\"\nDegree:\n\nAtelier National de Recherche Typographique, Nancy\n\"ANRT\"\nDegree: Post-master course\n\nHochschule für Grafik und Buchkunst Leipzig\n\"Class Type-Design\"\nDegree: Diplom Type-Design (MFA equivalent)\n\nCentro de Estudios Gestalt, Veracruz\n\"Maestría en Diseño Tipográfico\"\n\nCentro de Diseño, Cine y Televisión\nEspecialidad en Innovación Tipográfica \nHead of Program: Armando Pineda\nDegree: Specialty in Typographic Innovation\n\nKoninklijke Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (KABK), The Hague\n\"Master of Design Type and Media\"\nHead of Program: Erik van Blokland\nDegree: MA\n\nElisava, Barcelona School of Design and Engineering \nMaster in Typographic Creation\nIñigo Jerez, Director \nLaura Meseguer, Co-director \nDegree: Master’s Degree in Typographic Creation\n\nÉcole cantonale d'art de Lausanne (ECAL)\n\"MA Art Direction: Type Design\"\nDegree: MA Art Direction\n\n\"Zürcher Hochschule der Künste\", (University of the Arts) ZHdK, Zürich\n\"CAS Schriftgestaltung\" \n\"MAS Type Design and Typography\" \nDegree: Certificate\n\nUniversity of Reading\nDepartment of Typography & Graphic Communication\n\"MA in Typeface Design\" \nDegree: MA Typeface Design\n\nThe Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, New York City and San Francisco\n\"Postgraduate Certificate in Typeface Design\" (Type@Cooper)\nDegree: Certificate\n\nSchool of Visual Arts, New York City\n\"SVA Type Lab\" A 4-week immersive program in Typeface Design\nDegree: CE Summer Residency\n\nUniversity of Technology Sydney\nSchool of Design, Faculty of Design, Architecture & Building\nBachelor of Design in Visual Communication\n\nPlantin Instituut voor Typografie, Antwerp\nExpert Class Type Design\nDegree: Certificate\n\nPXL-MAD, Hasselt\nReading Type & Typography\nDegree: Bachelor and Master\n\nENSAV La Cambre, Brussels\nAtelier de Typographie & Design Graphique \nDegree: Bachelor and Master\n\nUniversidade Federal do Ceará (UFC)\nBacharelado em Design (Undergraduate)\n\nCentro Universitário Senac\nBacharelado em Design / Habilitação em Comunicação Visual (Undergraduate)\n\nUniversidade de São Paulo, Faculdade de Arquitetura e Urbanismo\nCurso de Design (Undergraduate)\n\nUniversidade Federal do Espírito Santo (UFES)\nBacharelado em Desenho Industrial / Habilitação em Programação Visual (Undergraduate)\n\nUniversidade Federal de Santa Maria (UFSm)\nBacharelado em Desenho Industrial / Habilitação em Programação Visual (Undergraduate)\n\nUniversidade Estadual Paulista 'Julio de Mesquita Filho' (UNesp, Bauru)\nBacharelado em Design com habilitação em Design Gráfico (Undergraduate)\n\nEscola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing (ESPM)\nBacharelado em Design com habilitação em Comunicação Visual e ênfase em Marketing (Undergraduate)\n\nEmily Carr University of Art + Design, Vancouver\nStudio courses in typography \nStudio course in Type Design\n\nUniversity of Guelph Humber, Toronto\nCourse in Type Design \nInstructor: Patrick Griffin\n\nOCAD University, Toronto\nCourse in \"The Art of Type\"\n\nYork University, Toronto\nCourse in \"Typeface Design\"\n\nUniversidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá\nStudio course in Type Design\n\nUMPRUM (AKA VŠUP or AAAD), Prague\nStudio of Type Design and Typography\n\nVUT: FaVU, Brno\n\nDanish School of Media, Copenhagen\n\nThe Danish Design School, Copenhagen\n\nAalto University School of Art and Design\nDepartment of Media\n\nKyAMK, Kymenlaakso University of Applied Sciences\n\nÉcole supérieure d’art et de design (ESAD), Amiens\nPost-diplôme « Typographie & langage »\n\"diplome.esad-amiens.fr Post-diplôme Ésad Amiens\"\n\nESAC, Pau\nAtelier de typographie\n\nHAW Hochschule für Angewandte Wissenschaften, Hamburg\nBA / MA Kommunikationsdesign mit Schwerpunkt Type Design\n\nDesignschule München\n\nFachhochschule Augsburg\nFachbereich Gestaltung, Studiengang Kommunikationsdesign\n\nBerliner technische Kunsthochschule BTK\nFachbereich Design, studiengangsübergreifend\n\nFachhochschule Potsdam\nFachbereich Design, Modul Kommunikationsdesign\n\nHochschule Darmstadt\nFachbereich Gestaltung, Studiengang Kommunikationsdesign\n\nHochschule Niederrhein\nFachbereich Design, Faculty of Design\n\nHochschule der Bildenden Künste Saar\nStudiengang Kommunikationsdesign (BFA, Diplom, MFA)\n\nKunsthochschule Weißensee, Berlin\nStudiengang Visuelle Kommunikation (BFA, Master)\n\nMuthesius Kunsthochschule, Kiel\nFachbereich Design, Studiengang Kommunikationsdesign\nCourses at Bachelor and Master Level\n\nNational College of Art & Design, Dublin\n\nBA(Hons) Graphic Design\n\nIsia Urbino, Urbino \nTypographic techniques \nType design \n\nAkademia Sztuk Pięknych, Poznań\nPoznaniu Pracownia Znaku i Typografii\nSign and Typography Studio\n\nAkademicki Kurs Typografii, Warszawa\nAkademicki Kurs Typografii\n\nCommunication and Art Department, University of Aveiro\nCourse Syllabus\nTypography Course blog\n\nEscola Superior de Arte e Design das Caldas da Rainha, Instituto Politécnico de Leiria\nGraphic Design Course Type Design studies\n\nEscola Superior de Arte e Design de Matosinhos\nCommunication Design Course Type Design studies\n\nBritish Higher School of Art and Design, Moscow\nCourse of Type & Typography\n\nMoscow State University of Printing Arts\nType Design Workshop\n\nEina, School of Art and Design + Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB)\nEina Master's in Advanced Typography\n\nSödertörn University, Stockholm \nTypsnittsdesign och typografi \nTypsnittsdesign och fontutveckling \n\nCalifornia Institute of the Arts\nProgram in Graphic Design\n\nMaine College of Art\nUndergraduate program in Graphic Design (BFA)\n\nMassachusetts College of Art & Design\nGraphic Design undergraduate program (BFA)\n\nParsons School of Design, New York\nUndergraduate Type Design\n\nPortland State University\nIntro Level Type Design Course\n\nPratt Institute\nSchool of Art and Design\n\nRhode Island School of Design\n1 Undergraduate and Masters Introduction to Type Design course\n\nSavannah College of Art and Design\n1 type face design undergraduate, 3 graduate level typeface design classes and 1 typeface marketing\nSchool of Visual Arts (SVA), New York\nContinuing Education course in Type Design\n\nThe Art Institute of California – Orange County (AiOC), California\n1 Undergraduate advanced typography course\n\nUniversity of Washington School of Art\nThe Visual Communication Design Program\n\nYale School of Art\nLetterform/Type Design\n\nCalifornia College of the Arts\nOne class on typeface design, offered as an investigative studio in junior year\n"}
{"id": "39498799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39498799", "title": "Los Angeles Science Teachers Network", "text": "Los Angeles Science Teachers Network\n\nLos Angeles Science Teachers Network is a professional development network for science education by science teachers for science teachers committed to creating the most engaging hands-on curriculum possible through inquiry-based learning and scientific literacy.\n\nThe first meeting was held in Lisa Ellen Niver's home in September 2009. In October 2013, the professional development network had its fifteenth session. Over seventy teachers and forty schools have been involved to date. In \"Westside Today\", information about teaching, science and LASTN was presented. In the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation \"Impatient Optimists\" article, \"Teachers Need A Village,\" the importance of teachers needing support from groups like LASTN is explored. \"Why So Many Of America's Teachers Are Leaving The Profession?\" cites Los Angeles Science Teachers Network as an example to teachers everywhere to find support and stay involved.\n\nSeveral teachers formed the core group and served as advisors to Niver over the first three years: Susan Bagdasarian, Sasha Moore, Joseph Rose and Judy Weiskopf. Niver was frequently asked about teaching science, she has been quoted in Parenting.com, PBS.org, \"Green Living Arizona\" (in print), the \"Huffington Post\" and on National television. While Niver is on sabbatical with We Said Go Travel, Susan Bagdasarian has been the director of the network.\n\n\n\n\n2014-2015\n\n2013-2014\n\n2012-2013\n2011-2012\niPad apps and hands-on labs\n2010-2011\n2009-2010\n"}
{"id": "58574648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58574648", "title": "Lynn Fuchs", "text": "Lynn Fuchs\n\nLynn Fuchs is an educational psychologist known for research on instructional practice and assessment, reading disabilities, and mathematics disabilities. She is the Dunn Family Chair in Psychoeducational Assessment in the Department of Special Education at Vanderbilt University. \n\nFuchs was featured in \"Forbes Magazine\" in 2009 as one of 14 \"revolutionary educators\" nationwide. In 2013, she was awarded with the Kauffman-Hallahan Distinguished Researcher Award, presented by the Division of Research of The Council for Exceptional Children and Routledge Press, for research leading to more effective services for children and youth with disabilities. In 2014, Fuchs and her husband Douglas Fuchs received the American Educational Research Association (AERA) Distinguished Contributions to Research in Education Award. In 2015, she was invited to the White House as part of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 40th anniversary. \n\nFuchs is one of the co-authors of \"Learning disabilities: From identification to intervention\" published in 2007. She co-edited the book \"Response to Intervention: A Framework for Reading Educators\" published in 2008. \n\nFuchs completed a B.A in Humanities at John Hopkins University in 1972, and a M.S in Elementary Education at the University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education in 1973. She continued her education at the University of Minnesota, where she received an Ed.S in Educational Psychology in 1977 and a Ph.D. in Educational Psychology in 1981. She was a Postdoctoral Associate from 1981-1983 at the University of Minnesota Institute for Research on Learning Disabilities. Fuchs was an Assistant Professor at Wheelock College (1981-1985) prior to joining the faculty of Vanderbilt University in 1985. Her research has been supported by grants from the National Institute of Child Health & Human Development. \n\nFuchs has served on the editorial boards of various journals including the \"Journal of Educational Psychology, Scientific Studies of Reading, Reading Research Quarterly, Elementary School Journal, Journal of Learning Disabilities\", and \"Exceptional Children\". \nFuchs and her team aim to identify instructional methods, including tutoring, that improve learning outcomes for students with learning disabilities in reading and mathematics. She has promoted use of formative assessment to enhance instructional effectiveness, and advocates for educational approaches that use responsiveness to intervention to identify children with persistent difficulties. Other research has focused on identifying cognitive profiles associated with math and reading difficulties, which may include slower processing speed or inattention.\n\nFuchs and her colleagues received the 1998 AERA Palmer O. Johnson Award for their paper \"Peer-assisted learning strategies: Making classrooms more responsive to diversity.\" This study demonstrated the effectiveness of a 15-week peer tutoring program for enhancing reading success in elementary school classrooms. \n\nIn 2015, Fuchs and her colleagues were awarded the International Literacy Association’s Albert J. Harris Research Award for their paper \"“Efficacy of a first-grade responsiveness-to-intervention prevention model for struggling readers\" published in \"Reading Research Quarterly.\" This paper indicated significant gains in first-grade reading for children assigned to a small-group supplemental tutoring program after being identified as non-responders to standard reading instruction.\n\nFuchs and her co-author Sarah Powell received the 2016 Samuel A. Kirk Award from the Division of Learning Disabilities of the Council for Exceptional Children for their paper \"Intensive intervention in mathematics\" published in \"Learning Disabilities Research and Practice\". This paper describes evidence-based individualized approaches to instruction for students who exhibit persistent difficulties in mathematics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3939641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3939641", "title": "Marcella Sembrich", "text": "Marcella Sembrich\n\nMarcella Sembrich (February 15, 1858 – January 11, 1935) was the stage name of the Polish coloratura soprano, Prakseda Marcelina Kochańska. She had an important international singing career, chiefly at the New York Metropolitan Opera and the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London.\n\nSembrich was born at Wisniewczyk, in Austrian Galicia, now part of Ukraine. She first studied violin and piano with her father. Later, she entered the Lemberg Conservatory and studied piano with her future husband Wilhelm Stengel and violin with Sigismond Bruckmann. She entered the Vienna Conservatory in Autumn 1875. It was only then that her remarkable voice was discovered. She studied violin with Joseph Hellmesberger Sr., piano with Julius Epstein, and voice with Viktor Rokitansky. After a year it was decided to give up study of the violin and piano and fully devote the young student to voice lessons. She arrived in Milan in September 1876 to study with one of the best vocal teachers on the continent, namely Giovanni Battista Lamperti, son of the eminent teacher Francesco Lamperti, with whom she would later study in 1885.\n\nAfter less than a year of study with the younger of the two Lampertis, Sembrich made her debut in opera at Athens as Elvira in Bellini's \"I puritani\" on June 3, 1877. She sang not only \"Puritani\", but also \"Dinorah\", \"Lucia di Lammermoor\", \"Robert le diable\" and \"La sonnambula\"! It is a testament to her proper early training and intelligence that a 19-year-old soprano could learn so many roles in a foreign language so quickly. While her success was solid, she still had much to learn. After Athens she was to appear with the Vienna Opera, but due to pregnancy she broke the contract. During her pregnancy and after the birth of her first son, Wilhelm Marcel, she continued her vocal studies, this time with Marie Seebach and Richard Lewey in Vienna.\n\nAfter a long and frustrating search for an opera engagement, she was hired as a guest at the Dresden Royal Opera House in September 1878, debuting as Lucia. Her success was immediate and she was dubbed the \"Polish Patti.\" She was immediately made a member of the company and remained in Dresden battling opera house politics, until 1880. She broke her contract at Dresden and sang a number of concerts to raise money to go to London. She had an auspicious audition with the impresario Ernest Gye at Covent Garden and signed a contract there for five seasons. In June 1880 she created a sensation in her debut at Covent Garden as Lucia in Donizetti's \"Lucia di Lammermoor\". She became a great favorite in the characters of Zerlina, \"Don Giovanni\"; Susanna, \"The Marriage of Figaro\"; Konstanze, \"The Abduction from the Seraglio\"; Lady Harriet/Martha, \"Martha\"; and, of course, Lucia. \n\nIn 1883, Marcella Sembrich went to the United States to sing in the newly founded Metropolitan Opera company. She made her Met debut as Lucia in the company premiere of \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" on October 24, 1883. She was also the Met's first Elvira in \"I Puritani\", Violetta in \"La Traviata\", Amina in \"La Sonnambula\", Gilda in \"Rigoletto\", Marguerite in \"Les Huguenots\" and Rosina in \"Il Barbiere di Siviglia\". Due to the terrific financial loss of the company that year, Italian opera was abandoned and German opera reigned supreme at the Met for the next dozen years or so. While away from New York, Sembrich was a tremendous favorite at the Italian Opera in St. Petersburg, Russia, from 1890 to 1897.\n\nSembrich returned to the Met in 1898. In total, she sang more than 450 Met performances in her 11 seasons there, and remained associated with the company until 1909, when the silver jubilee of her Met debut was celebrated with a farewell gala. She gave recitals until 1917. After this date, she taught students from the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia and at the Juilliard School of Music. Her students included Alma Gluck, Hulda Lashanska, Queena Mario, Edna de Lima, Dusolina Giannini, Josephine Antoine, Natalie Bodanya, Polyna Stoska, Jane Pickens. Additionally, some of her students in turn became important vocal teachers around the country. Among them were Anna Hamlin (teacher of Judith Raskin) at Smith College, Edith Piper and Florence Page Kimball (teacher of Leontyne Price) at Juilliard, Eufemia Gregory (teacher of Anna Moffo, Judith Blegen and Frank Guarrera) at the Curtis Institute.\n\nThe outbreak of World War I had made it impossible for the diva to return to her beloved Alps during the summers. Sembrich turned instead to the Adirondack Mountains area and spent summers at Lake Placid from 1915 to 1921, and then at a home on Lake George from 1922 to 1934. The Marcella Sembrich Opera Museum can be found at Bolton Landing, New York. The museum contains many mementos from the diva's career. \n\nShe died on January 11, 1935 at her home, 151 Central Park West in Manhattan, New York City.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "945077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=945077", "title": "Museum of Domestic Design and Architecture", "text": "Museum of Domestic Design and Architecture\n\nThe Museum of Domestic Design and Architecture (MoDA) is a museum in North London, England, housing one of the most comprehensive collections of 19th- and 20th-century decorative arts for the home. The collection is designated as being of outstanding international value by Arts Council England.\n\nThe collections include the Silver Studio collection of designs for wallpapers and textiles, the Charles Hasler collection, and the Crown Wallpaper Archive.\n\nThe museum is part of Middlesex University. The MoDA Collections Centre is based at Beaufort Park in Colindale, close to Middlesex University's Hendon campus in the London Borough of Barnet.\n\nThe Silver Studio (run by the Silver family) was a commercial design practice, based in West London, which between 1880 and 1963 completed more than 20,000 schemes for items such as furnishing fabrics, wallpapers, tablecloths, rugs and carpets. The Studio employed a number of designers, some of whom were well known in their own right, and others whose work remained anonymous.\n\nThe Silver Studio’s customers were retailers and manufacturers of wallpapers and textiles at all levels of the market, both in Britain and abroad. Designs for wallpapers were sold both to manufacturers producing cheap papers for the mass market such as Lightbown Aspinall and Potters of Darwen, as well as those selling high quality products for the top end of the market such as Essex & Co, John Line and Sandersons. Silver Studio designs were bought by all the leading British textile manufacturers, including Stead McAlpin, Alexander Morton and AH Lee, to name just a few. Clients included well known producers of high quality fabrics such as Turnbull & Stockdale and the famous department store, Liberty.\n\nBecause the majority of the Silver Studio’s clients were mass producers, Silver Studio designs found their way into numerous British homes. The Studio’s influence on British interiors over a remarkable length of time can be seen in the huge number of their designs that went into production.\n\nAfter it closed in the early 1960s the contents of the Silver Studio were given to the Hornsey College of Art, which subsequently became part of what is now Middlesex University.\n\nThe significance of the Collection lies both in its completeness and coherence as a whole and in the importance and uniqueness of its component parts. It spans the period 1880-1960, an important period in the development of mass market furnishings and one less well represented in other collections.\n\nSilver Studio designs found their way into many British homes over a long period, because most of its clients were mass producers. The significance of the Silver Studio as a design practice was acknowledged in 1981 with the awarding of an English Heritage blue plaque to 84 Brook Green, Hammersmith, the building that was both the Studio and the Silver family home.\n\nThis material was the working collection of designer and typographer, Charles Hasler (1908-1992). Hasler played a significant role in many high-profile exhibitions, displays, poster campaigns and book publishing in Britain from the mid-1930s to the mid-1980s.\n\nBetween 1942 and 1951 Hasler was an exhibition designer for the Ministry of Information and the Central Office of Information. He worked on displays such as ‘Dig For Victory’, ‘Make Do and Mend’ and ‘Nation and the Child’. After the war he became a senior designer and chairman of the Typographic Panel for the Festival of Britain of 1951.\n\nHasler designed and produced the influential Specimen of Display Letters for use by Festival architects and designers. Throughout his career Hasler lectured in typographic design and history and was involved with the education and professional development of print and graphic designers\n\nHasler was interested in the newly emerging field of packaging and branding and in the role of typographical design. His collection reflects his keen interest in all kinds of printed material and includes postcards, playbills, sheet music, packaging and posters dating from the nineteenth century onwards.\n\nMoDA holds the Sir James Maude Richards Library on long term loan. This is a collection of architectural books and journals collected by Sir JM Richards (1907-1992), a leading spokesman and theorist of the Modern Movement in architecture in Britain.\n\nRichards was the editor of \"The Architectural Review \"between 1937 and 1971, serving as critical spokesman on behalf of both architect and public alike.\n\n\"The Architectural Review\" was launched in 1896. During the 1930s it was central to the debate concerning the Modern movement in Britain. It was international in its scope and became a forum for the best examples of Modern movement architecture. As editor of the magazine Richards met all of the leading architectural practitioners and theoreticians of the day, and this is reflected in the contents of his library.\n\nHis best-known book, \"Castles on the Ground\" (1946), represents his argument in favour of suburbia, and his appreciation of the 'everyday' built environment.\n\nSir JM Richards' Library consists of over 1500 volumes and contains all his own published work, plus books by leading artists and architectural writers including John Betjeman, John Piper, Osbert Lancaster, Nikolaus Pevsner, John Nash, Herbert Read and John Summerson.\n\nMoDA’s Crown Wallpaper Collection consists of around 5,000 wallpaper albums and samples dating from the early 1950s to the late 1960s, donated to the museum by Crown Wallpapers in 1989.\n\nAlong with the wallpapers of MoDA’s Silver Studio Collection, this collection represents one of the country’s finest bodies of non-elite wallpapers of the late nineteenth to the mid twentieth centuries. The majority of the wallpapers held here were intended for the mass market, not for ‘high-end’ consumers, and can therefore be seen as a barometer of British taste over a long period.\n\nThe Crown Wallpaper complements our other collections, locating the product in its domestic setting and placing it in the context of histories of consumption, in particular in relation to suburbia.\n\nMoDA also has a good selection of hand-printed wallpapers from the 1930s, by artists such as Edward Bawden, John Aldridge and Lawrence Scarfe.\n\nThis collection consists of over 4,000 books, journals, magazines and trade and retail catalogues relating to all aspects of home furnishing, household management, cookery, house building, DIY, home crafts and gardening. This is a fantastic resource for anyone interested in domestic furnishings, homecraft or other aspects of domestic life; it is also useful as visual reference for those interested in typography, graphic design, book design and so on.\n\nA particularly important element is the material relating to the growth of North London suburbia between around 1900 and 1939. It consists of posters, brochures and other publicity material produced by property developers, builders and estate agents. This material complements the other items relating to domestic decoration and furnishing from the same period.\n\nAround 2,000 books and catalogues were originally part of the Silver Studio Collection, accumulated and used by the designers as sources of visual reference. A further 1,000 or so items were collected by the former Art and Design Librarian of Hornsey College of Art during the 1980s. The remainder have been acquired by purchase or donation over many years.\n\n"}
{"id": "143475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143475", "title": "Paramahansa Yogananda", "text": "Paramahansa Yogananda\n\nParamahansa Yogananda () (5 January 18937 March 1952), born Mukunda Lal Ghosh (), was an Indian yogi and guru who introduced millions of Indians and westerners to the teachings of meditation and Kriya Yoga through his organization Yogoda Satsanga Society of India and Self-Realization Fellowship. In 1946, he published his autobiography, titled \"Autobiography of a Yogi\" which is on the list of the \"100 best spiritual books of the 20th Century\" created by HarperSan Francisco, a division of HarperCollins Publishers. The book has been regularly reprinted ever since and is known as \"the book that changed the lives of millions.\"\n\nYogananda was born in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, India, to a devout family. According to his younger brother, Sananda, from his earliest years young Mukunda's awareness and experience of the spiritual was far beyond the ordinary. In his youth he sought out many of India's Hindu sages and saints, hoping to find an illuminated teacher to guide him in his spiritual quest.\n\nIn 1910 Yogananda's seeking after various saints mostly ended when, at the age of 17, he met his guru, Swami Yukteswar Giri. He describes his first meeting with Yukteswar as a rekindling of a relationship that had lasted for many lifetimes:\n\nWe entered a oneness of silence; words seemed the rankest superfluities. Eloquence flowed in soundless chant from heart of master to disciple. With an antenna of irrefragable insight I sensed that my guru knew God, and would lead me to Him. The obscuration of this life disappeared in a fragile dawn of prenatal memories. Dramatic time! Past, present, and future are its cycling scenes. This was not the first sun to find me at these holy feet!\n\nLater on Yukteswar informed Yogananda that he had been sent to him by Mahavatar Babaji for a special purpose.\n\nAfter passing his Intermediate Examination in Arts from the Scottish Church College, Calcutta, in June 1915, he graduated with a degree similar to a current day Bachelor of Arts or B.A. (which at the time was referred to as an A.B.), from Serampore College, the college having two entities, one as a constituent college of the Senate of Serampore College (University) and the other as an affiliated college of the University of Calcutta. This allowed him to spend time at Yukteswar's ashram in Serampore. In 1915, he took formal vows into the monastic Swami order and became Swami Yogananda Giri. In 1917, Yogananda founded a school for boys in Dihika, West Bengal, that combined modern educational techniques with yoga training and spiritual ideals. A year later, the school relocated to Ranchi. This school would later become the Yogoda Satsanga Society of India, the Indian branch of Yogananda's American organization, Self-Realization Fellowship.\n\nIn 1920, Yogananda went to the United States aboard the ship City of Sparta, as India's delegate to an International Congress of Religious Liberals convening in Boston. That same year he founded the Self-Realization Fellowship (SRF) to disseminate worldwide his teachings on India's ancient practices and philosophy of Yoga and its tradition of meditation. For the next several years, he lectured and taught on the East Coast and in 1924 embarked on a cross-continental speaking tour. Thousands came to his lectures. During this time he attracted a number of celebrity followers, including soprano Amelita Galli-Curci, tenor Vladimir Rosing and Clara Clemens Gabrilowitsch, the daughter of Mark Twain. The following year, he established an international center for Self-Realization Fellowship in Los Angeles, California, which became the spiritual and administrative heart of his growing work. Yogananda was the first Hindu teacher of yoga to spend a major portion of his life in America. He lived in the United States from 1920—1952, interrupted by an extended trip abroad in 1935–1936 which was mainly to visit his guru in India though he undertook visits to other living western saints like Therese Neumann, the Catholic Stigmatist of Konnersreuth, and places of spiritual significance en route.\n\nIn 1935, he returned to India to visit his guru Yukteswar Giri and to help establish his Yogoda Satsanga work in India. During this visit, as told in his autobiography, he met with Mahatma Gandhi, and initiated him into the liberating technique of Kriya Yoga as Gandhi expressed his interest to receive the Kriya Yoga of Lahiri Mahasaya; Anandamoyi Ma; renowned physicist Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman; and several disciples of Yukteswar's guru Lahiri Mahasaya. While in India, Yukteswar gave Yogananda the monastic title of \"Paramahansa\". Paramahansa means \"supreme swan\" and is a title indicating the highest spiritual attainment. In 1936, while Yogananda was visiting Calcutta, Yukteswar attained mahasamadhi (final soul liberation) in the town of Puri.\n\nAfter returning to America, Yogananda continued to lecture, write, and establish churches in southern California. He took up residence at the SRF hermitage in Encinitas, California which was a surprise gift from his disciple Rajarsi Janakananda. It was while at this hermitage that Yogananda wrote his famous \"Autobiography of a Yogi\" and other writings. Also at this time he created an \"enduring foundation for the spiritual and humanitarian work of Self‑Realization Fellowship/Yogoda Satsanga Society of India.\"\n\nThe last four years of his life were spent primarily in seclusion with some of his inner circle of disciples at his desert ashram in Twentynine Palms, California to finish his writings and to finish revising books, articles and lessons written previously over the years. During this period he gave few interviews and public lectures. He told his close disciples, \"I can do much more now to reach others with my pen.\"\n\nIn the days leading up to his death, Yogananda began hinting that it was time for him to leave the world.\n\nOn 7 March 1952, he attended a dinner for the visiting Indian Ambassador to the US, Binay Ranjan Sen, and his wife at the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles. At the conclusion of the banquet, Yogananda spoke of India and America, their contributions to world peace and human progress, and their future cooperation, expressing his hope for a \"United World\" that would combine the best qualities of \"efficient America\" and \"spiritual India.\" According to an eyewitness – Daya Mata, a direct disciple of Yogananda, who was head of the Self-Realization Fellowship from 1955–2010 — as Yogananda ended his speech, he read from his poem \"My India\", concluding with the words \"Where Ganges, woods, Himalayan caves, and men dream God—I am hallowed; my body touched that sod.\" \"As he uttered these words, he lifted his eyes to the Kutastha center (the Ajna Chakra), and his body slumped to the floor.\" Followers say that he entered mahasamadhi. The official cause of death was heart failure.\n\nHis funeral service, with hundreds attending, was held at the SRF headquarters atop Mt. Washington in Los Angeles. Rajarsi Janakananda, the new president of the Self-Realization Fellowship, \"performed a sacred ritual releasing the body to God.\" Yogananda's remains are interred at the Forest Lawn Memorial Park in the Great Mausoleum (normally closed off to visitors but Yogananda's tomb is accessible) in Glendale, California.\n\nIn 1917 in India Paramahansa Yogananda \"began his life's work with the founding of a 'how-to-live' school for boys, where modern educational methods were combined with yoga training and instruction in spiritual ideals.\" In 1920 \"he was invited to serve as India's delegate to an International Congress of Religious Liberals convening in Boston. His address to the Congress, on 'The Science of Religion,' was enthusiastically received.\" For the next several years he lectured and taught across the United States. His discourses taught of the \"unity of 'the original teachings of Jesus Christ and the original Yoga taught by Bhagavan Krishna.'\"\n\nIn 1920 he founded the Self-Realization Fellowship and in 1925 established in Los Angeles, California, USA, the international headquarters for SRF.\nYogananda wrote the \"Second Coming of Christ: The Resurrection of the Christ Within You\" and \"God Talks With Arjuna — The Bhagavad Gita\" to reveal what he claimed was the complete harmony and basic oneness of original Christianity as taught by Jesus Christ and original Yoga as taught by Bhagavan Krishna; and to present that these principles of truth are the common scientific foundation of all true religions.\n\nYogananda wrote down his Aims and Ideals for Self-Realization Fellowship/Yogoda Satsanga Society:\n\n\nIn his published work, \"The Self-Realization Fellowship Lessons\", Yogananda gives \"his in-depth instruction in the practice of the highest yoga science of God-realization. That ancient science is embodied in the specific principles and meditation techniques of \"Kriya Yoga\".\" Yogananda taught his students the need for direct experience of truth, as opposed to blind belief. He said that \"The true basis of religion is not belief, but intuitive experience. Intuition is the soul's power of knowing God. To know what religion is really all about, one must know God.\"\n\nEchoing traditional Hindu teachings, he taught that the entire universe is God's cosmic motion picture, and that individuals are merely actors in the divine play who change roles through reincarnation. He taught that mankind's deep suffering is rooted in identifying too closely with one's current role, rather than with the movie's director, or God.\n\nHe taught Kriya Yoga and other meditation practices to help people achieve that understanding, which he called Self-realization:\nSelf-realization is the knowing – in body, mind, and soul – that we are one with the omnipresence of God; that we do not have to pray that it come to us, that we are not merely near it at all times, but that God's omnipresence is our omnipresence; and that we are just as much a part of Him now as we ever will be. All we have to do is improve our knowing.\n\nThe \"science\" of Kriya Yoga is the foundation of Yogananda's teachings. \"Kriya Yoga\" is \"union (yoga) with the Infinite through a certain action or rite (kriya). The Sanskrit root of \"kriya\" is \"kri\", to do, to act and react.\" \"Kriya Yoga\" was passed down through Yogananda's guru lineage – Mahavatar Babaji taught \"Kriya Yoga\" to Lahiri Mahasaya, who taught it to his disciple, Yukteswar Giri, Yogananda's Guru.\n\nYogananda gave a general description of \"Kriya Yoga\" in his \"Autobiography\":\n\nThe Kriya Yogi mentally directs his life energy to revolve, upward and downward, around the six spinal centers (medullary, cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal plexuses) which correspond to the twelve astral signs of the zodiac, the symbolic Cosmic Man. One-half minute of revolution of energy around the sensitive spinal cord of man effects subtle progress in his evolution; that half-minute of Kriya equals one year of natural spiritual unfoldment.\n\nSri Mrinalini Mata, the former president of SRF/YSS, said, \"\"Kriya Yoga\" is so effective, so complete, because it brings God's love – the universal power through which God draws all souls back to reunion with Him – into operation in the devotee's life.\"\n\nYogananda wrote in \"Autobiography of a Yogi\" that the \"actual technique should be learned from an authorized Kriyaban (Kriya Yogi) of Self-Realization Fellowship (Yogoda Satsanga Society of India.)\"\n\nIn 1946, Yogananda published his life story, \"Autobiography of a Yogi\". It has since been translated into 45 languages. In 1999, it was designated one of the \"100 Most Important Spiritual Books of the 20th Century\" by a panel of spiritual authors convened by Philip Zaleski and HarperCollins publishers. \"Autobiography of a Yogi\" is the most popular among Yogananda's books. According to Philip Goldberg, who wrote \"American Veda\", \"the Self-Realization Fellowship which represents Yogananda's Legacy, is justified in using the slogan, \"The Book that Changed the Lives of Millions.\" It has sold more than four million copies and counting\". In 2006, the publisher, Self-Realization Fellowship, honored the 60th anniversary of \"Autobiography of a Yogi\" \"with a series of projects designed to promote the legacy of the man thousands of disciples still refer to as 'master'.\"\n\n\"Autobiography of a Yogi\" describes Yogananda's spiritual search for enlightenment, in addition to encounters with notable spiritual figures such as Therese Neumann, Anandamayi Ma, Vishuddhananda Paramahansa, Mohandas Gandhi, Nobel laureate in literature Rabindranath Tagore, noted plant scientist Luther Burbank (the book is 'Dedicated to the Memory of Luther Burbank, An American Saint'), famous Indian scientist Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose and Nobel laureate in physics Sir C. V. Raman. One notable chapter of this book is \"The Law of Miracles\", where he gives scientific explanations for seemingly miraculous feats. He writes: \"the word 'impossible' is becoming less prominent in man's vocabulary.\"\n\nThe \"Autobiography\" has been an inspiration for many people including George Harrison, Ravi Shankar and Steve Jobs. In the book \"Steve Jobs: A Biography\" the author writes that Mr. Jobs first read the \"Autobiography\" as a teenager. He re-read it in India and later while preparing for a trip, he downloaded it onto his iPad2 and then re-read it once a year ever since.\n\nAs reported in \"Time Magazine\" on August 4, 1952, Harry T. Rowe, Los Angeles Mortuary Director of the Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California, where Yogananda's body was received, embalmed and interred, wrote in a notarized letter\n\nThe absence of any visual signs of decay in the dead body of Paramahansa Yogananda offers the most extraordinary case in our experience... No physical disintegration was visible in his body even twenty days after death... No indication of mold was visible on his skin, and no visible drying up took place in the bodily tissues. This state of perfect preservation of a body is, so far as we know from mortuary annals, an unparalleled one... No odor of decay emanated from his body at any time... \nBecause of two statements in Rowe's letter, some have questioned whether the term \"incorruptibility\" is appropriate. First, in his fourth paragraph he wrote: \"For protection of the public health, embalming is desirable if a dead body is to be exposed for several days to public view. Embalming of the body of Paramhansa Yogananda took place twenty-four hours after his demise.\" In the eleventh paragraph he wrote: \"On the late morning of March 26th, we observed a very slight, a barely noticeable, change -- the appearance on the tip of the nose of a brown spot, about one-fourth inch in diameter. This small faint spot indicated that the process of desiccation (drying up) might finally be starting. No visible mold appeared however.\"\n\nAs Forest Lawn’s Mortuary Director, Rowe was professionally well qualified to distinguish the exceptional from the ordinary. He continued in paragraphs fourteen and fifteen: \"The physical appearance of Paramhansa Yogananda on March 27th just before the bronze cover for the casket was put into position, was the same as it was on March 7th. He looked on March 27th as fresh and unravaged by decay as he had looked on the night of his death. On March 27th there was no reason to say that his body had suffered any physical disintegration at all. For these reason we state again that the case of Paramhansa Yogananda is unique in our experience. On May 11, 1952, during a telephone conversation between an officer of Forest Lawn and an officer of Self-Realization Fellowship, the amazing story was brought out for the first time.\"\n\nSelf-Realization Fellowship published Rowe’s four-page notarized letter in its entirety in the May-June 1952 issue of its magazine \"Self-Realization\". From 1958 to the present it has been included in that organization's booklet \"Paramahansa Yogananda: In Memoriam\" \n\nThe location of Yogananda's crypt is in the Great Mausoleum, Sanctuary of Golden Slumber, Mausoleum Crypt 13857, Forest Lawn Memorial Park (Glendale).\n\nYogoda Satsanga Society of India (YSS) is a non-profit religious organization founded by Paramahansa Yogananda in 1917, 100 years ago.[5][6] In countries outside the Indian subcontinent it is known as the Self-Realization Fellowship. Paramahansa Yogananda's dissemination of his teachings is continued through this organization – the Self-Realization Fellowship (SRF)/Yogoda Satsanga Society of India (YSS). Yogananda founded Yogoda Satsanga Society of India in 1917 and then expanded it in 1920 to the United States naming it the Self-Realization Fellowship. In 1935 he legally incorporated it in the U.S. to serve as his instrument for the preservation and worldwide dissemination of his teachings. Yogananda expressed this intention again in 1939 in his magazine \"Inner Culture for Self-Realization\" that he published through his organization:\n\nSRF/YSS is headquartered in Los Angeles and has grown to include more than 500 temples and centers around the world and has members in over 175 countries including the Self-Realization Fellowship Lake Shrine. In India and surrounding countries, Paramahansa Yogananda's teachings are disseminated by YSS which has more than 100 centers, retreats, and ashrams.Rajarsi Janakananda was chosen by Yogananda to become the President of SRF/YSS when he was gone. Daya Mata, a religious leader and a direct disciple of Yogananda who was personally chosen and trained by Yogananda, was head of Self-Realization Fellowship/Yogoda Satsanga Society of India from 1955–2010. According to Linda Johnsen, the new wave today is women, for major Indian gurus have passed on their spiritual mantle to women including Yogananda to the American born Daya Mata and then to Mrinalini Mata. Mrinalini Mata, a direct disciple of Yogananda, was the president and spiritual head of Self-Realization Fellowship/Yogoda Satsanga Society of India from January 9, 2011 until her death on August 3, 2017. She too was personally chosen and trained by Yogananda to help guide the dissemination of his teachings after his death. On August 30, 2017, Brother Chidananda was elected as the next president in a unanimous vote by the SRF Board of Directors.\n\nIndia released a commemorative stamp in honor of Paramahansa Yogannada in 1977. \"Department of Post issued a commemorative postage stamp on the occasion of the twenty‑fifth anniversary of Yogananda's passing in honor of his far‑reaching contributions to the spiritual upliftment of humanity. “The ideal of love for God and service to humanity found full expression in the life of Paramahansa Yogananda. Though the major part of his life was spent outside India, still he takes his place among our great saints. His work continues to grow and shine ever more brightly, drawing people everywhere on the path of the pilgrimage of the Spirit.”\n\nOn March 7, 2017, the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi released the commemorative postage stamp honoring the 100th anniversary of the Yogoda Satsanga Society of India, founded by Yogananda. Prime Minister Modi at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi appreciated Paramahansa Yogananda for spreading the message of India's spirituality in foreign shores. He said that though Paramahansa Yogananda left the shores of India to spread his message, he always remained connected with India.\n\nOn November 15, 2017 the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, accompanied by the Governor of Jharkhand, Draupadi Murmu and Chief Minister of Jharkhand, Raghubar Das, visited the Yogoda Satsanga Society of India's Ranchi Ashram in honor of the official release of the Hindi translation of Paramahansa Yogananda's book \"God Talks with Arjuna: The Bhagavad Gita\". Brother Chidananda, president of Self-Realization Fellowship/Yogoda Satsanga Society of India, along with a contingent of YSS and SRF monastics greeted and hosted them. This meeting took place during the 2017 YSS Sharad Sangam which was honoring YSS's centennial anniversary (1917-2017).\n\nPresident Kovind said:\n“Paramahansa Yogananda’s message is a message of spirituality. Going beyond the confines of religion, his is a message of respecting all religions; his perspective is of world brotherhood.”\n“Through the publication of this Hindi translation, the wisdom-imparting teachings implicit in this book, which are of much assistance in everyday life, are now made available to a very large readership.” He expressed hope that “millions of people will be able to know themselves better, and recognize the way to make their lives better, through Paramahansa Yogananda’s Gita commentary, now that it is available in Hindi.”\n“Paramahansa Yogananda has also deeply impressed today’s young generation, which is surrounded by materialism and competition. Achieving prosperity and success on an international level amidst fierce struggle, many young people credit their accomplishments to Paramahansaji’s \"Autobiography of a Yogi\". This is a very renowned book, and I think most of you have read it; I too have had that opportunity. This book illumines the right course for all to follow in life.”\n\nThe members of this list were drawn from Yogananda's book \"Journey to Self-Realization\", unless otherwise noted, and the date and location of first discipleship to Yogananda are given.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31933884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31933884", "title": "Polish Teachers' Union", "text": "Polish Teachers' Union\n\nPolish Teachers' Union (, ZNP, also translated as \"Union of Polish Teachers\", \"Polish Teachers' Association\", \"Association of Polish Teachers\") is the largest Polish trade union for teachers and educators and their largest professional association.\n\nFirst Polish teachers trade unions date to 1905, the year that marks the period of unrest known as the Revolution in the Kingdom of Poland (1905–1907). The Polish Teachers' Union has been created in 1930 from the merger of the Union of Polish Teachers of Elementary Schools and the Trade Union of Teachers of Polish High Schools, both dating to 1919.\nIn the 1930s, ZNP, numbering over 50,000 members before World War II, and being the largest Polish association and trade union for educators, became increasingly influenced by socialists, which caused it to be eventually suspended by the conservative and right-leaning Polish government. In response, the socialist wing of ZNP organized the large Polish teachers strike (1937), which succeeded in having the government back down and reinstate the organization. ZNP at that time maintained also auxiliary institutions, such as the Pedegogical Institute, and run summer vocational courses.\n\nDuring the war, ZNP continued to exist as part of the underground education in Poland during World War II, in the form of the Secret Teaching Organization. The Organization was created towards the end of October 1939 in Warsaw response to German closure of most Polish educational institutions and repressions against teachers.\n\nAfter the war, ZNP was reinstated by the new Polish communist government, but had relatively little real influence. It was briefly suspended during the martial law in 1981. In 1984 it joined the All-Poland Alliance of Trade Unions. Like most other Polish trade unions, ZNP became independent after the fall of communism in 1989. The Union leaders decided to keep it aligned to the Polish left (Social Democracy of Poland), which caused a split, as some of the members left for the Solidary-aligned trade unions. Nonetheless, it remained and is currently the largest Polish trade union for teachers and educators.\n\nThe Union is governed by the National Meeting of the Delegates which convenes every four years. On day-to-day basis, the Main Office takes care of the routine organizational activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "3859066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3859066", "title": "Popular education", "text": "Popular education\n\nPopular education is a concept grounded in notions of class, political struggle, and social transformation. The term is a translation from the Spanish or the Portuguese and rather than the English usage as when describing a 'popular television program', popular here means 'of the people'. More specifically 'popular' refers to the 'popular classes', which include peasants, the unemployed, the working class and sometimes the lower middle class. The designation of 'popular' is meant most of all to exclude the upper class and upper middle class.\n\nPopular education is used to classify a wide array of educational endeavors and has been a strong tradition in Latin America since the end of the first half of the 20th century. These endeavors are either composed of or carried out in the interests of the popular classes. The diversity of projects and endeavors claiming or receiving the label of popular education makes the term difficult to precisely define. Generally, one can say that popular education is class-based in nature and rejects the notion of education as transmission or 'banking education'. It stresses a dialectic or dialogical model between educator and educand. This model is explored in great detail in the works of one of the foremost popular educators Paulo Freire.\n\nThough sharing many similarities with other forms of alternative education, popular education is a distinct form in its own right. In the words of Liam Kane:\n\"What distinguishes popular education from 'adult', 'non-formal', 'distance', or 'permanent education', for example, is that in the context of social injustice, education can never be politically neutral: if it does not side with the poorest and marginalised sectors- the 'oppressed' – in an attempt to transform society, then it necessarily sides with the 'oppressors' in maintaining the existing structures of oppression, even if by default.\"\n\nPopular education began at the crossroads between politics and pedagogy, and strongly relies on the democratic ideal of the Enlightenment, which considered public education as a main tool of individual and collective emancipation, and thus the necessary conditions of autonomy, in accordance to Immanuel Kant's \"Was Ist Aufklärung?\" (What is Enlightenment?), published five years before the 1789 French Revolution, during which the Condorcet report established public instruction in France.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau's \"\" (1762) was another obvious theoretical influence, as well as the works of N. F. S. Grundtvig (1783–1872), at the origins of the Nordic movement of folk high schools. During the 19th century, popular education movements were involved, in particular in France, in the Republican and Socialist movement. A main component of the workers' movement, popular education was also strongly influenced by positivist, materialist and laïcité, if not anti-clerical, ideas.\n\nPopular education may be defined as an educational technique designed to raise the consciousness of its participants and allow them to become more aware of how an individual's personal experiences are connected to larger societal problems. Participants are empowered to act to effect change on the problems that affect them.\n\nOne of the roots of popular education was the Condorcet report during the 1789 French Revolution. These ideas became an important component of the Republican and Socialist movement. Following the split of the First International at the 1872 Hague Congress between the \"anti-authoritarian socialists\" (anarchists) and the Marxists, popular education remained an important part of the workers' movement, in particular in the anarcho-syndicalist movement, strong in France, Spain and Italy. It was one of the important theme treated during the 1907 International Anarchist Congress of Amsterdam.\n\nDuring the Second Empire, Jean Macé founded the \"Ligue de l'enseignement\" (Teaching League) in 1866; during the Lille Congress in 1885, Macé reaffirmed the masonic inspiration of this league devoted to popular instruction. Following the 1872 Hague Congress and the split between Marxists and anarchists, Fernand Pelloutier set up in France various \"Bourses du travail\" centres, where workers gathered and discussed politics and sciences.\n\nThe Jules Ferry laws in the 1880s, establishing free, laic (non-religious), mandatory and public education, were one of the founding stones of the Third Republic (1871–1940), set up in the aftermaths of the 1870 Franco-Prussian War and the Paris Commune.\n\nFurthermore, most of the teachers, who were throughout one of the main support of the Third Republic, so much that it has been called the \"République des instituteurs\" (\"Republic of Teachers\"), while the teachers themselves were called, because of their Republican anti-clericalism, the \"hussards noirs de la République\", supported Alfred Dreyfus against the conservatives during the Dreyfus Affair. One of its consequences was for them to set up free educational lectures of humanist topics for adults in order to struggle against the spread of anti-semitism, which was not limited to the far-right but also affected the workers' movement.\n\nPaul Robin's work at the Prévost orphanage of Cempuis was the model for Francisco Ferrer's Escuela Moderna in Spain. Robin taught atheism and internationalism, and broke new ground with co-ed schooling, and teaching orphans with the same respect given to other children. He taught that the individual should develop in harmony with the world, on the physical, moral, and intellectual planes.\n\nIn Denmark, the concept of \"folk high school\" was pioneered in 1844 by N. F. S. Grundtvig. By 1870, Denmark had 50 of these institutions. The first in Sweden, \"Folkhögskolan Hvilan,\" was established in 1868 outside of Lund.\n\nIn 1882, liberal and socialist students at Uppsala University in Sweden founded the association \"Verdandi\" for popular education. Between 1888 and 1954 it published 531 educational booklets on various topics (\"Verdandis småskrifter\").\n\nSome Swedish proponents of \"folkbildning\" have adopted an anglicisation of \"folkbuilding\"\n\nA Swedish bibliography on popular education with 25,000 references to books and articles between 1850 and 1950 is integrated in the Libris catalog of the Royal Library.\n\nPopular education continued to be an important field of socialist politics, reemerging in particular during the Popular Front in 1936–38, while \"autogestion\" (self-management), a main tenet of the anarcho-syndicalist movement, became a popular slogan following the May '68 revolt.\n\nDuring the Red Vienna period (1919–34) the Viennese Volkshochschule played an important role in providing popular education attracting significant levels of participation from both factory and office workers. They also attracted significant participation from prominent people associated with the Vienna Circle: Otto Neurath, Edgar Zilsel, Friedrich Waismann and Viktor Kraft.\n\nThe \"Escuela Moderna\" (Modern School) was founded in 1901 in Barcelona by free-thinker Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia, and became a leading inspiration of many various movements. Opposed to the \"dogmas of conventional education Ferrer set a system based on reason, science, and observation.\" The school's stated goal was to \"educate the working class in a rational, secular and non-coercive setting\". In practice, high tuition fees restricted attendance at the school to wealthier middle class students. It was privately hoped that when the time was ripe for revolutionary action, these students would be motivated to lead the working classes. It closed in 1906. The \"Escuela Moderna\", and Ferrer's ideas generally, formed the inspiration for a series of \"Modern Schools\" in the United States, Cuba, South America and London. The first of these was started in New York City in 1911. It also inspired the Italian newspaper \"Università popolare\", founded in 1901.\n\nFollowing the 1981 presidential election which brought to power the Socialist Party (PS)'s candidate, François Mitterrand, his Minister of Education, Alain Savary, supported Jean Lévi's initiative to create a public high school, delivering the baccalauréat, but organized on the principles of \"autogestion\" (or self-management): this high school took the name of \"\" (LAP). The LAP explicitly modelled itself after the Oslo Experimental High School, opened in 1967 in Norway, as well as the Saint-Nazaire Experimental High School, opened six months before the LAP, and the secondary school Vitruve (opened in 1962 in the 20th arrondissement of Paris, still active). Theoretical references include Célestin Freinet and his comrades from the I.C.E.M., as well as , Fernand Oury, and others theoreticians of \"institutional pedagogy\", as well as those coming from the institutional analysis movement, in particular René Lourau, as well as members of the institutional psychotherapeutic movement, which were a main component in the 1970s of the anti-psychiatric movement (of which Félix Guattari was an important member). Since 2005, the LAP has maintained contact with self-managed firms, in the REPAS network (\"\", Network of Exchange of Solidarity and Alternative Practices\")\n\nA \"second generation\" for such \"folk high school\" meant to educate the people and the masses spread in the society (mainly for workers) just before the \"French Front populaire\" experience, as a reaction among teachers and intellectuals following the February 6, 1934 riots organized by far-right leagues. Issues devoted to \"free-thinking\" such as workers' self-management were thought and taught during that time, since the majority of attendants were proletarians interested in politics. Hence, some received the name of \"Université prolétarienne\" (Proletarian University) instead of \"Université populaire\" (Popular University) in some cities around the country. The reactionary Vichy regime put an end to such projects during World War II. The second generation continued in the post-war period, yet topical lectures turned to be more practical and focused on daily life matters. Nowadays, the largest remnant is located in the Bas-Rhin and Haut-Rhin \"départements\".\n\nFollowing World War II, popular teaching attempts were initiated mainly by the anarchist movement. Already in 1943, , , Paul Lengrand, Joseph Rovan and others founded the \"Peuple et Culture\" (People and Culture) network, aimed at democratization of culture. Joffre Dumazedier conceptualized, at the Liberation, the concept of \"cultural development\" to oppose the concept of \"economic development\", thus foreshadowing the current Human Development Index. Historian Jean Maitron, for example, was director of the Apremont school in Vendée from 1950 to 1955.\n\nSuch popular educations were also a major feature of May '68 and of the following \"decenie\", leading in particular to the establishment of the in Paris, in 1969. The Vincennes University (now located in Saint-Denis) was first a \"Experimental University Center,\" with an interest in reshaping relations between students and teachers (so-called \"mandarins\", in reference to the bureaucrats of Imperial China, for their authority and classic, Third Republic pedagogy) as well as between the university itself and society. Thus, Vincennes was largely opened to those who did not have their \"baccalauréat\" diploma, as well as to foreigners. Its courses were focused on Freudo-Marxism, psychoanalysis, Marxist theory, cinema, theater, urbanism or artificial intelligence. Famous intellectuals such as Gilles Deleuze, Michel Foucault, Jacques Lacan and others held seminars there, in full classrooms where no seats could be found. The assistance was very heterogeneous. For instance, musicians such as Richard Pinhas assisted at Deleuze's courses, and after having written \"Anti-Oedipus\" (1972) with Félix Guattari, Deleuze used to say that non-specialists had best understood their work. Furthermore, Vincennes had no amphitheatres, representatives of the \"mandarin\" teacher facing and dominating several hundred students silently taking notes. It also enforced a strict equality between professors and teaching assistants. The student revolt continued throughout the 1970s in both Vincennes and the , created in 1964. In 1980, the Minister of Education imposed the transfer of Vincennes' University to Saint-Denis. Although education was normalized in the 1980s, during the Mitterrand era, in both Saint-Denis and Vincennes, these universities have retained a less traditional outlook than the classic , where courses tend to be more conservative and sociological composition more middle-upper class.\n\nAnother attempt in popular education, specifically targeted towards the question of philosophy (France being one of the rare country where this discipline is taught in \"terminale\", the last year of high school which culminate in the \"baccalauréat\" degree) was the creation, in 1983, of the open university named \"Collège international de philosophie\" (International Philosophy College, or Ciph), by Jacques Derrida, François Châtelet, Jean-Pierre Faye and Dominique Lecourt, in an attempt to re-think the teaching of philosophy in France, and to liberate it from any institutional authority (most of all from the university). As the ancient \"Collège de France\", created by Francis I, it is free and open to everyone. The Ciph was first directed by Derrida, then by Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe, and has had as teaching members Giorgio Agamben, Alain Badiou, Sidi Mohamed Barkat, Geoffrey Bennington, François Châtelet, José Gil, Olivier LeCour Grandmaison, Antonio Negri, and others. The Ciph is still active.\n\nIn 2002 philosopher Michel Onfray initiated Université populaire de Caen in his hometown and starting a long seminar dealing with \"hedonistic philosophy\" from ancient times to May'68 events in French society, for at least ten years. His very topical subject in this seminar keeps going with a \"free-thinking\" spirit, since people are invited on the whole to rethink the history of ideas to eliminate any Christian influence. Despite the same name of \"Université populaire\", it is not linked to the European federation of associations inherited from the second generation. In 2004, Onfray expanded the experience to other cities such as Arras, Lyon, Narbonne, Avignon, and Mons (in Belgium) ; each with various lectures and teachers joining his idea. The \"Universités populaires\" in Argentan is meant to deliver a culture of culinary tastes to nonworking people, through lectures and practises of famous chefs.\n\nPopular education is most commonly understood as an approach to education that emerged in Latin America during the 1930s. Closely linked with Marxism and particularly liberation theology. Best known amongst popular educators is the Brazilian Paulo Freire. Freire, and consequently the popular education movement in Latin America, draws heavily upon the work of John Dewey and Antonio Gramsci. One of the features of popular education in Latin America has been participatory action research (PAR).\n\nIn the United States and Canada popular education influenced social justice education and critical pedagogy, though there are differences. At the same time, however, there are examples of popular education in the U.S. and Canada that grew up alongside and independently of popular education in Latin America.\n\nScholar and community-worker Myles Horton and his Highlander Folk School (now Highlander Research and Education Center) and his work in Tennessee can be classified as popular education. Horton's studies at Union Theological Seminary in New York under Reinhold Niebuhr in the 1920s parallels the emergence of liberation theology in Latin America and both are heavily influenced by socialism and a focus on the practical relationships between Christianity and everyday life. Niebuhr, however, was a staunch anti-communist while liberation theology has a much closer relationship to the work of Karl Marx. Additionally, popular education has been linked to populism and land-grant universities with their cooperative extension programs.\n\nMcCarthyism and the red scare were used to challenge and in some cases close labor schools and other institutions during the early part of the Cold War, as anticommunists attacked such schools for including communists. Nevertheless, Highlander Folk School, for example, played a significant role in the civil rights movement providing a space for leaders to consult and plan. And the methods of popular education continue to live on in radical education and community organizing circles, even though U.S. labor unions have largely abandoned the kind of labor education that more directly tied workplace organizing and collective bargaining to class struggle.\n\n"}
{"id": "885310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885310", "title": "Primary Mathematics World Contest", "text": "Primary Mathematics World Contest\n\nThe Primary Mathematics World Contest or PMWC takes place every year in Hong Kong. It was first held in 1997, and is sponsored by the Po Leung Kuk organization. The competition has attracted teams from around the world. Each team consists of 4 members, all of whom must be 13 or younger as of September 1, and must not be enrolled in a secondary institution (or the equivalent).\nHowever, the 13th Primary Mathematics World Contest (2009) was canceled due to the WHO declaring the Influenza A virus subtype H1N1 a pandemic. A similar event occurred in the 7th Primary Mathematics World Contest (2003) where the committee postponed the contest to November 2003 due to SARS. The PMWC committee provides room and board at the Panda Hotel in Tsuen Wan.\n"}
{"id": "59090739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59090739", "title": "Punished by Rewards", "text": "Punished by Rewards\n\nPunished by Rewards: The Trouble with Gold Stars, Incentive Plans, A's, Praise, and Other Bribes is a 1993 book by Alfie Kohn that argues against the use of rewards to incentivize behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "815012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=815012", "title": "Rear Window Captioning System", "text": "Rear Window Captioning System\n\nThe Rear Window captioning system (RWC) is a method for presenting, through captions, a transcript of the audio portion of a film in theatres for deaf and hard-of-hearing people. The system was co-developed by WGBH and Rufus Butler Seder.\n\nOn the way into the theatre, viewers pick up a reflective plastic panel mounted on a flexible stalk. The panel sits in a seat cupholder or on the floor adjacent to the seat. A large LED display is mounted on a rear wall that displays caption characters in mirror image. Viewers move the panels into position (usually below the movie screen) so they can read the reflected captions and watch the movie. It is sometimes necessary to sit in a certain area of the theater to obtain the best angle for reflecting the backward text emitted from the back of the theater on the panel while also being able to view the movie at the same time.\n\nThrough this method, all screenings of a film can be accessible to caption viewers. Others seated alongside do not watch, or usually even see, the captions.\n\nRear Window captioning is an alternative to open captioning, in which text is permanently visible. Open captioning has been little-used due to the fear that it was too intrusive and noticeable to hearing viewers. However, no studies have been conducted to elicit hearing people's opinions on how they will adapt to reading captions on screen. Rear Window captioning is a form of closed captioning because the viewer must choose to view the captions.\nFew movie exhibitors or theater chains choose to provide Rear Window captioning. One of the reasons often stated for not providing Rear Window captioning is the cost of the hardware (as of 2011, approximately US $4,500 per screen for a single installation, less for multiple installations in a multiplex). The cost of captioning a film is on the order of US$4,000 (about $40 per minute).\n\nFor blind viewers, audio description (Descriptive Video Service, DVS) can be and usually is transmitted along with captions. Viewers listen to the descriptions via wireless headsets.\n\nIn the Rear Window system, the film print is unaffected. With the transition to Digital Cinema, closed captions are included in many digital cinema packages.\n\nIn many movie advertisements by a specific cinema, the \"RWC\" acronym is often used, much like the CC acronym is used to indicate the availability of closed captions on television shows. Often, \"RWC/DVS\" notation is used, indicating the availability of both Rear Window Captioning and Descriptive Video Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "11953531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11953531", "title": "Ronald Verlin Cassill", "text": "Ronald Verlin Cassill\n\nR. V. Cassill, full name Ronald Verlin Cassill, (May 17, 1919 – March 25, 2002) was a prolific writer, reviewer, editor, painter, and lithographer. He is most notable for his novels and short stories, through which he won several awards and grants.\n\nCassill was born on May 17, 1919 in Cedar Falls, Iowa to Howard Cassill, a school superintendent, and Mary Glosser, a teacher; he had two brothers, Donald Cassill and H. Carroll Cassill, and a sister, LaJean. After graduating from Blakesburg High School, he earned a B.A. in art at The University of Iowa in 1939, where he was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa Society. From 1942 to 1946, Cassill served the United States Army in the Medical Administration Core as a first lieutenant, stationed in the South Pacific.\n\nCassill's wartime experiences culminated in his short story \"The Conditions of Justice,\" published in 1947, and won him his first Atlantic Monthly.\n\nFor less than a year after having returned from the war, Cassill studied art at the Art Institute of Chicago in 1946, where his artistic skills flourished. He mounted exhibits in Chicago in 1946 and 1948.\n\nAfter studying in Chicago, he returned to the University of Iowa, earning his M.A. in 1947. In 1949 he briefly served as an instructor at the University's Writer's Workshop before attending the Sorbonne in 1952 for a year as a Fulbright Fellow, studying comparative literature. Cassill worked as an editor for the Western Review of Iowa City from 1951 to 1952, Collier's Encyclopedia from 1953 to 1954, and Dude and Gent in 1958.\n\nCassill wrote about 15 \"paperback originals\" in the 1950s and early 1960s. Assessing these early writings, \"The New York Times\"' remarked that \"Cassill shows that he can combine paperback storytelling at its strongest with subtle literary quality.\"\n\nCassill took a lecturing position at the University of Washington in Seattle in 1955; in 1957 he taught in New York, where he became a lecturer at both Columbia University and the New School for Social Research. Between the shift of moving from the west coast to the east coast, Cassill fell in love and married Karilyn Kay Adams on November 23, 1956. Together they had three children, Orin, Jesse, and Erica Cassill. Cassill returned to the University of Iowa in the same capacity in 1960 where he would teach for a few years at the Iowa Writer's Workshop. Among some of the students who took classes with Cassill at the Iowa Writer's Workshop during this time, and would later go on to achieve some measure of acclaim, included Clark Blaise, Raymond Carver, and Joy Williams.\n\nHis next position was as writer-in-residence at Purdue University from 1965 to 1966. Soon after beginning teaching at Brown University, Cassill founded the Associated Writing Programs (now known as the Association of Writers & Writing Programs) in 1967. \nCassill was appointed Associate Professor at Brown University in 1966 and then to Professor of English in 1972 where he remained until his retired from teaching as Professor emeritus in 1983. In addition to his teaching, Cassill served as U.S. Information Service lecturer in Europe from 1975 to 1976. During this time, he mounted another art exhibit in 1970. After retiring from Brown University, Cassill became the editor of \"The Norton Anthology of Short Fiction\", retaining this position for nearly a quarter century, until his death.\n\nCassill died in the Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, Rhode Island, March 2002. At the time of his death, he was survived by his wife, two sons (Orin E., of New York City, and Jesse B., of San Diego), and a daughter, Erica Cassill Wood of Saline, Michigan; a brother, H. Carroll, of Cleveland, Ohio; a sister, LaJean Holstein of Ellsworth, Maine; and seven grandchildren.\n\nIn 1995 the American Academy of Arts and Letters awarded Cassill the Academy Award for Literature.\nCassill received the Atlantic Monthly's \"Firsts\" prize for a short story in 1947. He won the O. Henry short-story award for \"The Prize\" in 1956. He was given a Rockefeller grant in 1954 and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1968.\n\nCassill's prolific career writing and publishing, along with a wide array of interests beyond fiction, make it difficult to summarize the thematic nature and concerns of his work. His stories and novels concern bucolic life in the midwest, the life of the artist or academic, and at times extend into autobiography. A preoccupation with the fates of couples, in alienation and union, is exhibited in much of his fiction, as is the warring of emotional and rational impulses in individuals and pairs. A strong visual identification is intrinsic in his prose, likely due to his training as a visual artist. His most famous novels were probably \"Doctor Cobb's Game\" and \"Clem Anderson\", but both the sheer breadth of his writing, and his pervasive influence as a writing teacher, have secured Cassill's legacy in modern fiction.\n\nCassill's papers are archived at the Mugar Memorial Library at Boston University.\n\nAuthor website: www.rvcassill.com\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23289646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23289646", "title": "Sonoma Adventist College", "text": "Sonoma Adventist College\n\nSonoma Adventist College is a co-educational tertiary institution situated in Kokopo in Papua New Guinea. It is operated by the Seventh-day Adventist Church and is accredited by the Adventist Accrediting Association.\n\nIt is a part of the Seventh-day Adventist education system, the world's second largest Christian school system. \n\nThe college is divided into the following divisions\n\nDuring the 1993 eruption of the Rabaul volcanoes, Sonoma was a registered refugee camp with over 2,000 extra people on campus.\nIt was founded by Pr Alex Currie\n\n"}
{"id": "1022417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022417", "title": "Sudbury school", "text": "Sudbury school\n\nA Sudbury school is a type of school, usually for the K-12 age range, where students have complete responsibility for their own education, and the school is run by direct democracy in which students and staff are almost equals. Students independently decide what to do with their time, and tend to learn as a by-product of ordinary experience rather than through coursework. There is no predetermined educational syllabus, prescriptive curriculum or standardized instruction. This is a form of democratic education. Daniel Greenberg, one of the founders of the original Sudbury Model school, writes that the two things that distinguish a Sudbury Model school are that everyone - adults and children - are treated equally and that there is no authority other than that granted by the consent of the governed.\n\nWhile each Sudbury Model school operates independently and determines their own policies and procedures, they share a common culture. The intended culture within a Sudbury school has been described with such words as freedom, trust, respect, responsibility and democracy.\n\nThe name 'Sudbury' originates from the Sudbury Valley School, founded in 1968 in Framingham, Massachusetts, near Sudbury, Massachusetts. Though there is no formal or regulated definition of a Sudbury Model school, there are now more than 60 schools that identify themselves with Sudbury around the world. Some, though not all, include \"Sudbury\" in their name. These schools operate as independent entities and are not formally associated in any way.\n\nSudbury schools are based on:\n\n\n\"The fundamental premises of the school are simple: that all people are curious by nature; that the most efficient, long-lasting, and profound learning takes place when started and pursued by the learner; that all people are creative if they are allowed to develop their unique talents; that age-mixing among students promotes growth in all members of the group; and that freedom is essential to the development of personal responsibility.\"\n\nAll aspects of governing a Sudbury School are determined by the weekly School Meeting, modeled after the traditional New England town meeting. School Meeting passes, amends and repeals school rules, manages the school's budget, and decides on hiring and firing of staff. Each individual present — including students and staff — has an equal vote, and most decisions are made by simple majority\n\nSchool rules are normally compiled in a law book, updated repeatedly over time, which forms the school's code of law. Usually, there is a set procedure to handle complaints, and most of the schools follow guidelines that respect the idea of due process of law. There are usually rules requiring an investigation, a hearing, a trial, a sentence, and allowing for an appeal, generally following the philosophy that students face the consequences of their own behavior.\n\nThe Sudbury pedagogical philosophy may be summarized as the following:\nLearning is a natural by-product of all human activity. Learning is self-initiated and self-motivated.\n\nThe educational model states that there are many ways to learn and that learning is a process someone does, not a process that is done to him or her; According to the model the presence and guidance of a teacher is not necessary.\n\nThe free exchange of ideas and free conversation and interplay between people provides broad exposure to areas that may prove relevant and interesting to students. Students are of all mixed ages. The older students learn from younger students and vice versa. The presence of older students provides role models, both positive and negative, for younger students. The pervasiveness of play has led to a recurring observation by first-time visitors to a Sudbury school that the students appear to be in perpetual \"recess\".\n\nImplicitly and explicitly, students are given responsibility for their own education: The only person designing what a student will learn is the student. Exceptions are when a student asks for a particular class or arranges an apprenticeship. Sudbury schools do not compare or rank students — the school requires no tests, evaluations, or transcripts.\n\nReading is treated the same as any other subject: Students learn to read when they choose, or simply by going about their lives.\n\n\"Only a few kids seek any help at all when they decide to learn. Each child seems to have their own method. Some learn from being read to, memorizing the stories and then ultimately reading them. Some learn from cereal boxes, others from game instructions, others from street signs. Some teach themselves letter sounds, others syllables, others whole words. To be honest, we rarely know how they do it, and they rarely tell us.\"\n\nSudbury Valley School claims that all of their students have learned to read. While students learn to read at a wide variety of ages, there appears to be no drawback to learning to read later: No one who meets their older students could guess the age at which they first learned to read.\n\nThe model differs in some ways from other types of democratic schools and free schools, but there are many similarities:\n\n"}
{"id": "9899383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9899383", "title": "Test of Basic Aviation Skills", "text": "Test of Basic Aviation Skills\n\nThe Test of Basic Aviation Skills (TBAS) is a computerized psychomotor test battery used as a tool for the selection of United States Air Force pilot candidates. It was created as a replacement for the Basic Attributes Test (BAT) which was in use from 1993 to 2006. TBAS scores are combined with the candidate's Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (AFOQT) scores, and flying hours to produce a Pilot Candidate Selection Method (PCSM) score. The PCSM score provides a measure of a candidate's aptitude for pilot training and is a significant part of the selection process. As of August 14, 2006 the TBAS is operational at all testing sites and the BAT has been retired.\nIn 1999, the Air Education and Training Command directed the Studies and Analysis Squadron to develop a new skills battery to incorporate the latest advances in psychomotor and cognitive research. The Studies and Analysis Squadron partnered with the Naval Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory and the US Air Force Academy to develop the TBAS as a possible BAT replacement.\n\nThe Air Force Research Laboratory, released a report on the \"Development and Validation of the\nTest of Basic Aviation Skills (TBAS) \" in November 2005. According to the report, the TBAS was fielded to 994 Air Force pilot trainees. The testing showed strong correlations between TBAS scores and potential success at pilot training.\nTBAS equipment was shipped to testing locations by July 2006 and was operational at all sites on August 14, 2006.\n\nThe test equipment consists of a computer, keyboard, mouse, joystick, rudder pedals, and headphones. During the validation of the TBAS the test apparatus was:\nWhether the same equipment has been deployed at all testing sites remains unclear.\n\nThe TBAS is composed of 9 subtests each of which either introduces a new skill area or tests a combination of the previous skill areas. Total time to administer the test is less than one hour.\n\n\"Measures spatial orientation abilities: The participant must determine a UAV’s position relative to a target. The test simultaneously presents a \"tracker map” which shows the location and heading of the UAV; and a forward field of view, as seen through a fixed, forward pointing camera of a UAV, which shows a single building surrounded by four parking lots. The task is to click on the parking lot that a computer generated voice instructs. There are 48 questions.\" \n\n\"Participants are presented with auditory letters and numbers. They must squeeze the trigger when they hear any of the three or five specified numbers. The test lasts approximately three minutes.\" \n\n\"Participants use rudder pedals to keep a box over an airplane as it moves horizontally along the bottom of the screen. The airplane moves at a constant speed and changes direction when it “hits” the side of the screen or if a participant successfully targets it for multiple seconds. The task lasts three minutes and the level of difficulty (speed of the airplane) increases as the task progresses.\" \n\n\"Participants use the joystick to keep the gun sight on the airplane as it moves at a constant rate. The airplane randomly changes direction when it hits the side of the screen or if a participant successfully targets it for multiple seconds.\" \n\n\"This test requires you to perform two previously tested tasks simultaneously. First, you track an airplane moving along a horizontal axis as you did in the Horizontal Tracking Test. Second, you track an airplane moving in two dimensions as you did in the Airplane Tracking Test.\"\n\n\"This test requires you to perform three previously tested tasks simultaneously. First, you will track an airplane moving along a horizontal axis as you did in the Horizontal Tracking Test. Second, you will track an airplane moving in two dimensions as you did in the Airplane Tracking Test. Third, you will respond when you hear any of the three or five specified target numbers.\" \n\n\"Participants simultaneously perform the horizontal tracking task and the airplane tracking task, they are presented with three emergency scenarios (one at a time) which they must cancel out by typing a code with the keyboard.\" \n\nThe scoring of the test is kept secret, and TBAS scores are never explicitly reported, but as the score is a component of the PCSM score, a general idea of one's performance can be gleaned from the PCSM score.\n\n"}
{"id": "40043179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40043179", "title": "Tile (company)", "text": "Tile (company)\n\nTile is an American consumer electronics company which produces key finder devices which use Bluetooth 4.0. The devices work with a companion mobile app for Android and iOS, which allows users to locate lost items through Bluetooth or where they were last seen. In September 2018 GoPro vet CJ Prober became CEO of Tile. In September 2015, Tile launched Generation 2 hardware that includes find-your-phone functionality and other feature upgrades, which by January 2016 sold over 4.5 million units. In August 2017, two new versions of the Tile were launched, the Tile Sport and Tile Style.\n\nBy attaching a Tile hardware device to a keychain or other item, a user can later use the Tile app to help locate the item if the object is lost. The Tile application uses Bluetooth Low Energy 4.0 radio technology to locate Tiles within a 150-foot range. Each Tile comes with a built-in speaker so the user can hear it within close range. Generation 2 of the Tile device has a volume of 90 decibels, three times louder than Generation 1's volume. The Gen 2 adds a \"find your phone\" feature. Tiles are 1.5 square inches and waterproof.\n\nThe application can locate Tiles beyond the 100-foot Bluetooth range, using \"crowd GPS\": If an item with an attached Tile device is reported lost and comes within range of another user's Tile application, the nearby user's application will send the item's owner an anonymous update of that item's location. Alternatively, a user can share their tile with another user, to let both users locate the tile.\n\nThe Tile Mate can pair with Bluetooth devices running Android or iOS. One can only pair up to 250 Tiles to one account. Further, tile mate is meant for a single owner i.e. once you have paired tile with your account, you need to directly email the company with device information to un-pair it and let someone else use it.\n\nTile's built-in batteries begin to wear out after one year of use. Users are automatically notified when the batteries are nearing depletion, and can receive a discount on a replacement product. The used Tile can then be sent back to be recycled.\n\nTile has partnered with Blunt Umbrellas to create a \"smart\" umbrella that can be located through Tile when it gets lost.\n\nTile's developers used Selfstarter, an open source website platform, to crowdfund the project through pre-orders.\n\nAs of July 7, 2013, Tile had raised over by selling preordered Tiles directly to 50,000 backers through their website.\n\nIn 2014, Tile raised additional Series A funding of US$13 million led by GGV Capital and a further US$3 million from Khosla Ventures in 2015.\n\nTile's founder Nick Evans was sued, along with his company Reveal Labs, on November 7, 2013, for allegedly stealing the Tile idea while Nick was under employment by Jonathan C. Coon.\n\nThe case was eventually settled out of court.\n\n"}
{"id": "1041815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041815", "title": "Tirumalai Krishnamacharya", "text": "Tirumalai Krishnamacharya\n\nTirumalai Krishnamacharya (November 18, 1888 – February 28, 1989) was an Indian yoga teacher, ayurvedic healer and scholar. Often referred to as \"the father of modern yoga,\" Krishnamacharya is widely regarded as one of the most influential yoga teachers of the 20th century and is credited with the revival of hatha yoga.\n\nKrishnamacharya held degrees in all the six Vedic \"darśanas\", or Indian philosophies. While under the patronage of the King of Mysore, Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV, Krishnamacharya traveled around India giving lectures and demonstrations to promote yoga, including such feats as stopping his heartbeat. He is widely considered as the architect of \"vinyāsa\", in the sense of combining breathing with movement. Underlying all of Krishnamacharya’s teachings was the principle “Teach what is appropriate for an individual.” While he is revered in other parts of the world as a yogi, in India Krishnamacharya is mainly known as a healer who drew from both ayurvedic and yogic traditions to restore health and well-being to those he treated. He authored four books on yoga—\"Yoga Makaranda\" (1934), \"Yogaasanagalu\" (c. 1941), \"Yoga Rahasya\", and \"Yogavalli\" (Chapter 1 – 1988)—as well as several essays and poetic compositions.\n\nSome of Krishnamacharya's students include many of yoga’s most renowned teachers: Indra Devi (1899–2002), K. Pattabhi Jois (1915–2009), B.K.S. Iyengar (1918-2014), T.K.V. Desikachar (1938-2016), Srivatsa Ramaswami (born 1939), and A. G. Mohan (born 1945). Krishnamacharya was the brother-in-law of B.K.S. Iyengar, the founder of the style of yoga known as \"Iyengar Yoga,\" who credits Krishnamacharya with encouraging him to learn yoga as a young person in 1934.\n\nKrishnamacharya was born on November 18, 1888 in Muchukundapura, situated in the Chitradurga district of present-day Karnataka, in South India, to an orthodox Iyengar family. His parents were Sri Tirumalai Srinivasa Tatacharya, a well-known teacher of the Vedas, and Shrimati Ranganayakiamma. Krishnamacharya was the eldest of six children. He had two brothers and three sisters. At the age of six, he underwent upanayana. He then began learning to speak and write Sanskrit, from texts such as the Amarakosha and to chant the Vedas under the strict tutelage of his father. Krishnamacharya's father also taught him asanas and pranayama.\n\nWhen Krishnamacharya was ten, his father died, and the family had to move to Mysore, the second largest city in Karnataka, where Krishnamcharya's great-grandfather H.H. Sri Srinivasa Brahmatantra Parakala Swami, was the head of the Parakala Math (there were two by that name between 1835–1873 CE). In Mysore, Krishnamacharya began a more formal schooling at the Chamaraj Sanskrit College and in the Math. He made a practice of debating on the subjects of the \"Shastras\" with the professors and visiting \"Pandits\". Krishnamacharya passed his Vidvan examination in Mysore, where he had studied \"Vyakarana\", \"vedanta\", and \"tarka\".\n\nAt the age of sixteen, Krishnamacharya had a strange dream in which his ancestor, the legendary yogi and Sri Vaishnava saint Nathamuni directed him to go to the town of Alvar Tirunagari, in the neighboring state of Tamil Nadu. Krishnamacharya obeyed the dream and traveled there. As Krishnamacharya later told, when he arrived at his destination, he fell into a trance and found himself in the presence of three sages. He requested the sages to instruct him in the \"Yoga Rahasya\", a long-lost yogic treatise by Nathamuni. One of the sages, whom he later identified as Nathamuni himself, began reciting the text. When Krishnamacharya later awoke from the trance, he could recall all the verses of this legendary treatise.\n\nKrishnamacharya spent much of his youth traveling through India studying the six \"darśana\" or Indian philosophies: \"vaiśeṣika\", \"nyāya\", \"sāṃkhya\", \"yoga\", \"mīmāṃsā\" and \"vedānta\". In 1906, at the age of eighteen, Krishnamacharya left Mysore to attend the university at Benares, also known as Vārānasī, a city of hundreds of temples and a highly regarded North Indian center of traditional learning. While at the university, he focused his studies on logic and Sanskrit, working with Brahmashri Shivakumar Shastry, \"one of the greatest grammarians of the age\". He also learned the Mimamsa from Brahmasri Trilinga Rama Shastri. Krishnamacharya learned \"tarka\" from Vamacarana Bhattacharya. He also forged a strong friendship with the head of Kāśi Sanskrit Vidyā Pīṭha, Mahāmahopādhyāya Gaṅgānāth Jhā.\n\nAfter leaving Benares, in 1909, Krishnamacharya returned to Mysore and studied \"vedānta\" with the new pontiff of Parakāla Math, H. H. Sri Krishna Brahmatantra. During this period Krishnamacharya learned to play the \"vīṇā\", one of the most ancient stringed instruments in India. Besides Math, Krishnamacharya also studied at the University of Mysore.\n\nIn 1914, Krishnamacharya once again left for Benares to attend classes at Queens College, where he eventually earned a number of teaching certificates. During the first year he had little or no financial support from his family. In order to eat, he followed the rules that were laid down for religious beggars: he was to approach only seven households each day and was to offer a prayer \"in return for wheat flour to mix with water for cakes\". Krishnamacharya eventually left Queens College to study the \"ṣaḍdarśana\" (six darshanas) in Vedic philosophy at Patna University, in Bihar, a state in eastern India. He also received a scholarship to study Ayurveda under Vaidya Krishnakumar of Bengal.\n\nKrishnamacharya was invited to the coronation of the Rajah of Dikkanghat (a principality within Darbhanga), at which he defeated a scholar called Bihari Lal in a debate, and received rewards and honors from the Raja. His stay in Benares lasted 11 years.\n\nDuring all this time Krishnamacharya continued to practice the yoga that his father had taught him as a young boy. Krishnamacharya also studied with the yoga master Sri Babu Bhagavan Das and passed the Samkhya Yoga Examination of Patna. Many of Krishnamacharya's instructors recognized his outstanding abilities in the study and practice of yoga and supported his progress. Some asked that he teach their children.\n\nDuring his vacations, which would last about three months, Krishnamacharya made pilgrimages into the Himalayas. At the suggestion of Gaṅgānāth Jhā, Krishnamacharya sought to further his yoga studies by seeking a master named Yogeshwara Ramamohana Brahmachari, who was rumored to live in the mountains beyond Nepal. For this venture, Krishnamacharya had to obtain the permission of the Viceroy in Simla, Lord Irwin, who was then suffering from diabetes. At the request of the Viceroy, Krishnamacharya travelled to Simla and taught him yogic practices for six months. The viceroy’s health improved and he developed respect and affection for Krishnamacharya. In 1919, the Viceroy made arrangements for Krishnamacharya’s travel to Tibet, supplying three aides and taking care of the expenses.\n\nAfter two and a half months of walking, Krishnamacharya arrived at Sri Brahmachari’s school, a remote cave at the foot of Mount Kailash, where the master lived with his wife and three children. Under Brahmachari’s tutelage, Krishnamacharya spent seven and a half years studying the \"Yoga Sūtras\" of Patañjali, learning \"āsanas\" and \"prāṇāyāma\", and studying the therapeutic aspects of yoga”. He was made to memorize the whole of the \"Yoga Kuruntha\" in the Gurkha language. As tradition holds, at the end of his studies with the guru, Krishnamacharya asked what his payment would be. The master responded that Krishnamacharya was to \"take a wife, raise children and be a teacher of Yoga\".\n\nKrishnamacharya then returned to Vārāṇasī. The Mahārāja of Jaipur called him to serve as principal of the Vidyā Śālā in Jaipur; but as he did not like being answerable to many people, Krishnamacharya shortly returned to Vārāṇasī. In accordance with his guru's wish that he live the life of a householder, Krishnamacharya married Namagiriamma in 1925. After his marriage, Krishnamacharya was forced by circumstance to work in a coffee plantation in the Hasan district. It was after a lecture on the Upaniṣads in Mysore town hall in 1931 that he attracted the attention as a learned scholar that eventually led to his employment at the palace. Impressed with Krishnamacharya’s knowledge as a scholar and his mastery of yoga, Amarnātha Jhā, the son of Gaṅgānāth Jhā, introduced Krishnamacharya to various monarchs, and he was widely honoured by them.\n\nIn 1926, the Maharaja of Mysore, Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV (1884–1940) was in Varanasi to celebrate the 60th birthday of his mother and heard about Krishnamacharya's learning and skill as a yoga therapist. The Maharaja met Krishnamacharya and was so impressed by the young man's demeanor, authority, and scholarship that he engaged Krishnamacharya to teach him and his family. Initially, Krishnamacharya was installed to teach yoga at the Mysore Palace. He soon became a trusted advisor of the Maharajah, and was given the recognition of Asthana Vidwan — the intelligentsia of the palace.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Krishnamacharya held many demonstrations to stimulate popular interest in yoga. These included suspending his pulse, stopping cars with his bare hands, performing difficult asanas, and lifting heavy objects with his teeth. The Palace archive records show that the Maharaja was interested in the promotion of yoga and continually sent Krishnamacharya around the country to give lectures and demonstrations.\n\nIn 1931, Krishnamacharya was invited to teach at the Sanskrit College in Mysore. The Maharaja, who felt that yoga had helped cure his many ailments, asked Krishnamacharya to open a yoga school under his patronage and was subsequently given the wing of a nearby palace, the Jaganmohan Palace, to start the Yogashala, an independent yoga institution, which opened on August 11, 1933.\n\nIn 1934, Krishnamacharya authored the book titled \"Yoga Makaranda\", which was published by Mysore University. In the introduction to \"Yoga Makaranda\", Krishnamacharya lists Sritattvanidhi, a 19th-century treatise containing a yoga section by Maharaja of Mysore, Krishnaraja Wodeyar III (1794–1868) as one of the sources for his book. In \"The Yoga Tradition of the Mysore Palace\", Norman Sjoman asserts that Krishnamacharya was influenced by the Sritattvanidhi and also the \"Vyayama Dipika\", a Western-based gymnastics manual written by the Mysore Palace gymnasts.\n\nIn 1940, Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV died and his nephew and successor, Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar (1919–1974), showed less interest in yoga and no longer provided support for publishing texts and sending teams of teachers to surrounding areas. Following political changes in 1946, around the time that India gained independence, the powers of the maharajas were curtailed, a new government came into being. Funding for the yoga school was cut off and Krishnamacharya struggled to maintain the school. At the age of 60 (1948), Krishnamacharya was forced to travel extensively to find students and provide for his family. The yogashala in Mysore was ordered to be closed by K.C. Reddy, the first Chief Minister of Mysore State, and the school eventually closed in 1950.\n\nAfter leaving Mysore, Krishnamacharya moved to Bangalore for a couple of years and then was invited in 1952 to relocate to Madras, by a well-known lawyer who sought Krishnamacharya’s help in healing from a stroke. By now, Krishnamacharya was in his sixties, and his reputation for being a strict and intimidating teacher had mellowed somewhat.\n\nIn Madras, Krishnamacharya accepted a job as a lecturer at Vivekananda College. He also began to acquire yoga students from diverse backgrounds and in various physical conditions, which required him to adapt his teaching to each student’s abilities. For the remainder of his teaching life, Krishnamacharya continued to refine this individualized approach, which came to be known as Viniyoga. Many considered Krishnamacharya a yoga master, but he continued to call himself a student because he felt that he was always “studying, exploring and experimenting” with the practice. Throughout his life, Krishnamacharya refused to take credit for his innovative teachings but instead attributed the knowledge to his guru or to ancient texts.\n\nAt the age of 96, Krishnamacharya fractured his hip. Refusing surgery, he treated himself and designed a course of practice that he could do in bed. Krishnamacharya lived and taught in Chennai until he slipped into a coma and died in 1989, at one hundred years of age. His cognitive faculties remained sharp until his death; and he continued to teach and heal whenever the situation arose.\n\nAlthough his knowledge and teaching has influenced yoga throughout the world, Krishnamacharya never left his native India. \"Yoga Journal\" said that: \n\nBy developing and refining different approaches, Krishnamacharya made yoga accessible to millions around the world.\n\nKrishnamacharya was not only a yoga instructor but also a physician of Ayurvedic medicine. He “possessed enormous knowledge of nutrition, herbal medicine, the use of oils, and other remedies”. Krishnamacharya’s custom as an Ayurvedic practitioner was to begin by conducting a detailed examination to determine the most efficient path to take for a patient. For example, he would take the patient’s pulse, examine the color of the skin, and listen to the quality of the breath. During the time of diagnosis, Krishnamacharya would look for what “upset or hindered the harmonious union of the body, mind, and spirit.” According to Krishnamacharya, even though the source or focus of a disease is in a particular area of the body, he assumed that many other systems in the body, both mental and physical, would also be affected. At some point during or after an initial examination, Krishnamacharya would ask if the patient was willing to follow his guidance. This question was important to a patient’s treatment, because Krishnamacharya felt that if the person could not trust him fully there was little chance of his or her being healed.\n\nOnce a person began seeing Krishnamacharya, he would work with him or her on a number of levels including adjusting their diet; creating herbal medicines; and setting up a series of yoga postures that would be most beneficial. When instructing a person on the practice of yoga, Krishnamacharya particularly stressed the importance of combining breath work (pranayama) with the postures (asanas) of yoga and meditation (dhyana) to reach the desired goal. He would continue to see the person approximately once a week to monitor the progress until he or she was healed.\n\nKrishnamacharya “believed Yoga to be India’s greatest gift to the world.” His yoga instruction reflected his conviction that yoga could be both a spiritual practice and a mode of physical healing. Krishnamacharya based his teachings on the \"Yoga Sutras\" of Patanjali and the \"Yoga Yajnavalkya\". Whereas Krishnamacharya was deeply devoted to Vaishnavism, he also respected his students’ varying religious beliefs, or nonbeliefs. A former student recalls that while leading a meditation, Krishnamacharya instructed students to close their eyes and “think of God. If not God, the sun. If not the sun, your parents.” As a result of the teachings he received from his father and other instructors, Krishnamacharya approached every student as “absolutely unique,” in the belief that the most important aspect of teaching yoga was that the student be “taught according to his or her individual capacity at any given time”. For Krishnamacharya, this meant that the path of yoga would mean different things for different people and that each person should be taught in a manner that he or she understand clearly.\n\nKrishnamacharya was highly regarded as a scholar. He earned degrees in philosophy, logic, divinity, philology, and music. He was twice offered the position of Acharya in the Srivaishnava sampradaya, but he declined in order to stay with his family, in accordance with his guru’s wishes.\n\nHe also had extensive knowledge of orthodox Hindu rituals. His scholarship in various darshanas of orthodox Indian philosophy earned him titles such as \"Sāṃkhya-yoga-śikhāmaṇi\", \"Mīmāṃsā-ratna\", \"Mīmāṃsā-thīrtha\", \"Nyāyācārya\", \"Vedāntavāgīśa\", \"Veda-kesari\" and \"Yogācārya\".\n\nBooks on yoga:\n\n\nOther works (essays and poetic compositions):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22933006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22933006", "title": "Turkmen State University", "text": "Turkmen State University\n\nTurkmen State University named after Magtymguly () is one of the leading universities in Turkmenistan, located in the capital of Ashgabat. Founded in 1950. It is named after Magtymguly Pyragy, a Turkmen poet. Its current rector is Gurtnyýaz Nurlyýewiç Hanmyradow.\n\nTurkmen State University named after Maxim Gorky founded in July 14, 1950 through the reorganization of existing since 1931 Ashkhabad Pedagogical Institute.\n\nHe is a member of the Eurasian Association of Universities from 1989.\n\nPrior to 1993, was named after the Russian writer Maxim Gorky.\n\nAt present, bears the name of the Turkmen poet Magtymguly.\n\n\nIn 2007, the French company \"Bouygues\" has built the main building of TSU with a library, a reading room, an assembly hall and a total area of 13,500 m² at $40 million.\n\n\"Bouygues\" under contract with TSU executed reconstruction of buildings for $45 million. Firm has made the reconstruction of the facade of the main and one education buildings TSU.\n\nOn September 1, 2008, the physics and mathematics faculty was opened. The opening ceremony of the new academic building was attended by President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov.\n\nSeptember 1, 2011 the building was opened, faculty of geography and two blocks of hostels, that were built by the company \"Bouygues\". Educational building adjacent to the main building of TSU. In the building of geographical faculty can engage 800 students.\n\n"}
{"id": "33935250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33935250", "title": "UNIQUe Certification", "text": "UNIQUe Certification\n\nThe UNIQUe Certification is a quality label awarded to Higher Education Institutions, for quality use of ICT (Information and Communication Technologies). The label is managed by the EFQUEL, and was co-developed by the MENON Network, EFMD, and Europace.\n\nThe quality of both products and programmes in the field of technology-enhanced learning varies widely. The UNIQUe quality label is a unique concept of quality improvement which is theoretically sound and at the same time is meeting the expectations of practice.\n\nMany of the existing quality initiatives in this field focus heavily, if not solely, on online instructional design. The UNIQUe approach goes above and beyond this, focusing on the use of ICT to enhance educational provision and learning support, throughout the entire breadth of activity of the Higher Education Institution. This sophisticated approach demands an applicant to meet high-quality standards for programme objectives, programme structure, content, resources and learning processes.\n\nThe fundamental feature of the UNIQUe approach is to support institutions of higher education to measure how successful they are in technology-enhanced learning and to allow for continuous improvement. Thus,\n\n- UNIQUe is an accelerator for quality improvement and innovation. \n- Providing industry-wide benchmarks, it will dramatically enhance the implementation speed of the Bologna reforms in the area of technology-enhanced learning.\n- Compared to other quality initiatives in the area of technology-enhanced learning, UNIQUe has a broader institutional approach and is not only related to e Learning. The - Unique quality label builds on the broadest stakeholder involvement.\n- The UNIQUe process is structured in six very distinct stages and offers a formalized approach in each of the steps.\n- The UNIQUe quality label provides a certification as a result, next to continuous quality improvement mechanisms.\n- The UNIQUe quality label focuses on innovation. UNIQUe ensures continuous quality improvement since it is a diagnostic tool for self-assessment of the institution.\n\nThe UNIQUe Process is made up of six steps, namely:\n\n1 – Application\n\n2 – Eligibility: The Institution is checked for overall compliance with the UNIQUe scheme\n\n3 – Self-Assessment: The institution embarks on a process of self-analysis and assessment, completing a questionnaire about its processes, and submitting back to a review team.\n\n4 – Peer Review: A three-person review team visits the Institution, to check compliance with the UNIQUe Criteria.\n\n5 – Awarding Body: An independent awarding body, recommends certification or rejection, based upon the recommendation of the reviewers.\n\n6 – Continuous Quality Improvement: the institution's development of ICT policies is continuously monitored, in line with recommendations made by the review team.\n\nENQA Workshop Report on Quality Assurance in e-Learning Workshop Report\n\n"}
{"id": "24783256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24783256", "title": "United States Navy dog handler hazing scandal", "text": "United States Navy dog handler hazing scandal\n\nThe United States Navy dog handler hazing scandal was a pattern of misconduct engaged in by members of the United States Navy at Naval Support Activity Bahrain between 2004 and 2006. Naval investigators documented nearly 100 incidents of abuse committed against several members of a Military Working Dog (MWD) unit stationed at the United States military base at Juffair. Documented incidents of abuse include racial intimidation, sexual harassment, physical abuse and anti-gay harassment. One sailor, Master-At-Arms 3rd Class Joseph Rocha, suffered post-traumatic stress disorder because of his abuse at the hands of fellow sailors, and he alleges that another sailor committed suicide because of her treatment. The Navy investigated the allegations in 2007 and documented the abuse, but took little substantive action. However, Pennsylvania Congressman Joe Sestak, a former Vice Admiral, demanded a new examination of the report's findings which led to the disciplining of Rocha's former superior, Chief Petty Officer Michael Toussaint (later Senior Chief Petty Officer). The scandal came to widespread public attention as United States President Barack Obama faced increased pressure to repeal the military's gay-exclusionary policy known as \"don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT).\n\nJoseph Rocha joined the United States Navy at the age of 18. He arrived in Bahrain in February 2005 and was assigned to the Military Working Dog unit. Rocha, who is gay but states he adhered to the military's \"don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT) policy while assigned in Bahrain, became the target of hazing. Hazing, which the Navy defines as \"any conduct whereby a military member or members, regardless of service or rank, without proper authority causes another military member or members, regardless of service or rank, to suffer or be exposed to any activity which is cruel, abusive, humiliating, oppressive, demeaning or harmful\", is a violation of Navy policy. When Rocha refused to patronize female prostitutes, unit commander then Master-At-Arms 2nd Class Michael Toussaint and others in the unit subjected him to anti-gay taunts and slurs. In another incident he was hogtied with duct tape and rope and locked in a dog kennel filled with feces. He was force-fed dog biscuits while his hands and feet were bound. In an incident Rocha describes as \"dehumanizing\", he was forced to simulate oral sex on another male sailor while being video taped, supposedly as part of a training exercise. Following 28 months of abuse, Rocha left Bahrain and completed an officers' training boot camp. However, the years of mistreatment left Rocha in need of counseling for post-traumatic stress disorder, and his PTSD in combination with the suicide of his former unit's commander, Petty Officer 1st Class Jennifer Valdivia, and his general disillusionment with the military following his ordeal, led to his coming out to his new commanding officer. Rocha received an honorable discharge under DADT in 2007.\n\nIn February 2011, the Navy Administrative Board determined that Rocha's accusations were exaggerated and that Toussaint was never questioned or given the chance to testify in his own defense. The three-man board reviewed two days of testimony and ruled that the case was based largely on uncorroborated hearsay. Some witnesses contradicted themselves and Rocha acknowledged getting some of the facts wrong in his \"Washington Post\" article and in his original testimony.\n\nIn 2006 the Judge Advocate General's office opened an investigation after a sailor new to the unit reported incidents of abuse. The investigation, dated April 12, 2007, documented 93 instances of hazing and other improper conduct that took place within the unit between 2005 and 2006. In addition to Rocha's treatment, the report also documented among other incidents:\n\n\nIn October 2006, Toussaint was transferred out of the unit and Valdivia was placed in charge. On October 10, she was advised of the investigation and feared that she would be scapegoated for the abuse. In December she advised her chain of command of her intention to leave the Navy. On January 11, 2007, she was relieved of duty and placed on \"administrative legal hold\", meaning she could not transfer, go on leave or exit the Navy.\n\nFollowing the investigation, which was completed in June 2007, Toussaint not only was not punished for his role in the hazing, he was promoted to Chief Master-At-Arms and assigned to work with elite Navy SEALS at the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group at Dam Neck in Virginia. Valdivia, a former Sailor of the Year who was second in command during the abuse and later the unit commander, was charged with failing to control her unit to stop the abuse. She committed suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning at her villa in Bahrain. Her body was found on January 16, 2007. Another sailor, Petty Officer 3rd Class Jake Wilburn, was taken to an Article 15 hearing and dishonorably discharged after Rocha alleged that Wilburn harassed him; Wilburn, who acknowledges participating in some harassment, unsuccessfully appealed his discharge. Wilburn went on to run for, and lose, a seat in the Missouri General Assembly in 2012. The Navy took no further judicial action regarding the report but Toussaint was subject to administrative discipline.\n\nIn September 2007, Master-at Arms 2nd Class Shaun Hogan, who had been assigned to the MWD unit, gave copies of the Navy report to Youth Radio, a student internship program based in Oakland, California. He had received it in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. Youth Radio posted the redacted report on its website. The case came to the attention of Joe Sestak, then the Congressman from Pennsylvania's 7th congressional district. Sestak wrote to Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus to request an explanation of why Toussaint was promoted after the hazing incidents and suggested that Valdivia's suicide was related to the incidents. In response, Mabus ordered Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead to re-examine the original investigation. Roughead \"found that the incidents were not in keeping with Navy values and standards and violated the Navy's long-standing prohibition against hazing\" according to a Navy spokeswoman.\n\nBased on these findings, Mabus considered a court-martial for Toussaint but ultimately decided against it, because of the amount of time that had passed between the incidents and the report, the previous review of the incidents and the short amount of time between Toussaint's return from an overseas deployment and the end of his enlistment. On October 21, the Navy announced that Toussaint would be reassigned to Naval Special Warfare Group 2 in Norfolk, Virginia where he would have no command responsibilities. He received a letter of censure. His planned re-enlistment was denied and he was forced to retire in January 2010. Roughead has also ordered the Naval Criminal Investigative Service to re-examine the case. Sestak has called for Congressional hearings into the hazing allegations.\n\nBoth Sestak and the Navy have indicated their belief that the conduct of the MWD unit is an isolated phenomenon and not indicative of any military-wide culture. Sestak characterized the MWD unit as an \"aberration\" and a \"rogue unit\". Rear Admiral David Mercer, commander of Navy Region Europe, Africa and Southwest Asia, which oversees the Bahrain base where the incidents occurred, calls the actions of the unit an \"anomaly. This was a unit that was improperly led, and apparently the leadership was allowing things to occur — and in some cases encouraging things to occur — that were absolutely unacceptable. [but] I would absolutely deny that there was a culture that promoted this sort of thing.\"\n\nIn January 2010, Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Gary Roughead issued formal letters of counseling to Vice Admiral Robert Conway and Captain Gary Galloway for their actions related to the incidents and subsequent investigation. Conway, former head of Navy Installations Command and the highest-ranking officer to sign off on a June 2007 investigation into the abuse, was chastised for not doing more to ensure that officers in his chain of command were sufficiently addressing the hazing allegations. Conway retired in April 2009. Galloway, former commander of the Bahrain base at the time of the incidents in question, was scolded for not acting quickly and firmly to verify the nature of the alleged behavior and ensure that prohibitions against hazing were enforced. Galloway, as of January 2010, was assigned to Space and Naval Warfare Systems Center San Diego. The letters of counseling will not be included in either officers' permanent personnel files.\n\nThe Navy held a retirement pay hearing for Touissant at Norfolk Naval Station in February 2010. The government argued for him to be retired as a petty officer first class. After two days of testimony and 30 minutes of deliberation, the panel unanimously recommended that Touissant be retired as a senior chief petty officer. An assistant secretary of the Navy has the final decision. The Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, a legal support and advocacy group for current and former LGBT military personnel, contacted Secretary Mabus with its concerns over this outcome, stating that it sends the message that as long as LGBT people are subject to separation under \"don't ask, don't tell\" they can be abused by those above them in the chain of command with little regard for consequences. SLDN called upon Mabus to overrule the decision of the retirement panel and \"retire Toussaint at the pay-grade at which he last served honorably and that Toussaint be given a discharge characterization that reflects his service record, which is clearly, less than honorable\".\n\nIn February 2011, the Navy concluded that charges against Toussaint were exaggerated and that Rocha's allegations were either unsubstantiated or embellished. Naval officers involved in investigating the Toussaint case called the original decision to censure Toussaint a \"reverse Tailhook\" reaction, a reflexive and hasty attempt to prove that the Navy had learned its lesson from the 1991 Tailhook convention sexual harassment scandal. Toussaint is nevertheless still barred re-enlistment.\n\nJuan Garcia, assistant secretary of the Navy for manpower and reserve affairs, decided to allow Touissant to retire at his current rank of senior chief petty officer. Said Garcia, \"Toussaint's conduct as the Leading Chief Petty Officer assigned to the Military Working Dog Division, Naval Security Forces, Bahrain, did not meet the standards expected of senior enlisted leadership in our Navy. The Secretary of the Navy concurred with the CNO's decision that Toussaint not be permitted to re-enlist in the United States Navy. However, when looking at his career in its entirety, I have determined that his conduct did not rise to a level sufficient to warrant retirement in a paygrade less than E-8.\"\nSenior Chief Petty Officer Michael Toussaint, was awarded the Silver Star for \"great battlefield courage\" during a special operations raid in Afghanistan.\n\nReceiving the nation's third-highest military honor marks the bittersweet end to a 22-year career marred by a hazing scandal that erupted long after he'd left his position as kennel master at the Navy's base in Bahrain in 2006.\n\nThe hazing scandal received widespread media attention at a time when President Barack Obama faced increasing pressure from LGBT rights advocates and members of his own party to end the exclusionary \"don't ask, don't tell\" policy that prevented gay people from serving openly in the military. Obama promised to repeal DADT during his 2008 presidential campaign and reiterated that promise in a speech to LGBT lobbying organization the Human Rights Campaign delivered on October 10, 2009. LGBT advocates had been dissatisfied with what they perceive as a lack of action within the Obama administration on a series of LGBT issues, including DADT repeal, passage of the Employment Non-discrimination Act which would make discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation illegal, repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) which prevented the federal government from legally recognizing same-sex marriages and the administration's defense of DOMA in a case before the Supreme Court. Democrat Sestak cited DADT as an example of \"not adhering to the ideals of our nation\" and called for the repeal of DADT before the end of 2009. In the wake of his experiences, Joseph Rocha became an activist seeking the repeal of DADT. On July 15, 2010, Rocha testified about his experiences in \"Log Cabin Republicans v. United States\", a federal lawsuit which sought to strike down DADT.\n\nCongress voted to repeal DADT in December 2010 and President Obama signed the bill into law on December 22, 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32794", "title": "Vitruvius", "text": "Vitruvius\n\nMarcus Vitruvius Pollio (; c. 80–70 BC – after c. 15 BC), commonly known as Vitruvius, was a Roman author, architect, civil engineer and military engineer during the 1st century BC, known for his multi-volume work entitled \"De architectura\". His discussion of perfect proportion in architecture and the human body led to the famous Renaissance drawing by Leonardo da Vinci of \"Vitruvian Man\".\n\nBy his own description Vitruvius served as an artilleryman, the third class of arms in the military offices. He probably served as a senior officer of artillery in charge of \"doctores ballistarum\" (artillery experts) and \"libratores\" who actually operated the machines.\n\nLittle is known about Vitruvius' life. Most inferences about him are extracted from his only surviving work \"De Architectura\". Even his first name \"Marcus\" and his cognomen \"Pollio\" are uncertain. writes of \"Vitruvius Polio aliique auctores\"; this can be read as \"Vitruvius Polio, and others\" or, less likely, as \"Vitruvius, Polio, and others\". An inscription in Verona, which names a \"Lucius Vitruvius Cordo\", and an inscription from Thilbilis in North Africa, which names a \"Marcus Vitruvius Mamurra\" have been suggested as evidence that Vitruvius and Mamurra (who was a military \"praefectus fabrum\" under Julius Caesar) were from the same family; or were even the same individual. Neither association, however, is borne out by \"De Architectura\" (which Vitruvius dedicated to Augustus), nor by the little that is known of Mamurra.\n\nVitruvius was a military engineer (\"praefectus fabrum\"), or a \"praefect architectus armamentarius\" of the \"apparitor\" status group (a branch of the Roman civil service). He is mentioned in Pliny the Elder's table of contents for \"Naturalis Historia\" (Natural History), in the heading for mosaic techniques. Frontinus refers to \"Vitruvius the architect\" in his late 1st-century work \"De aquaeductu\".\n\nLikely born a free Roman citizen, by his own account, Vitruvius served in the Roman army under Caesar with the otherwise poorly identified Marcus Aurelius, Publius Minidius, and Gnaeus Cornelius. These names vary depending on the edition of \"De architectura\". Publius Minidius is also written as Publius Numidicus and Publius Numidius, speculated as the same Publius Numisius inscribed on the Roman Theatre at Heraclea.\n\nAs an army engineer he specialized in the construction of \"ballista\" and \"scorpio\" artillery war machines for sieges. It is speculated that Vitruvius served with Caesar's chief engineer Lucius Cornelius Balbus.\n\nThe locations where he served can be reconstructed from, for example, descriptions of the building methods of various \"foreign tribes\". Although he describes places throughout \"De Architectura\", he does not say he was present. His service likely included north Africa, Hispania, Gaul (including Aquitaine) and Pontus.\n\nTo place the role of Vitruvius the military engineer in context, a description of \"The Prefect of the camp\" or army engineer is quoted here as given by Flavius Vegetius Renatus in \"The Military Institutions of the Romans\":\n\nThe Prefect of the camp, though inferior in rank to the [Prefect], had a post of no small importance. The position of the camp, the direction of the entrenchments, the inspection of the tents or huts of the soldiers and the baggage were comprehended in his province. His authority extended over the sick, and the physicians who had the care of them; and he regulated the expenses relative thereto. He had the charge of providing carriages, bathhouses and the proper tools for sawing and cutting wood, digging trenches, raising parapets, sinking wells and bringing water into the camp. He likewise had the care of furnishing the troops with wood and straw, as well as the rams, \"onagri,\" \"balistae\" and all the other engines of war under his direction. This post was always conferred on an officer of great skill, experience and long service, and who consequently was capable of instructing others in those branches of the profession in which he had distinguished himself.\n\nAt various locations described by Vitruvius, battles and sieges occurred. He is the only source for the siege of Larignum in 56 BC. Of the battlegrounds of the Gallic War there are references to: the siege and massacre of the 40,000 residents at Avaricum in 52 BC; Vercingetorix commented that \"the Romans did not conquer by valor nor in the field, but by a kind of art and skill in assault, with which they [Gauls] themselves were unacquainted.\" The broken siege at Gergovia in 52 BC. The circumvallation and Battle of Alesia in 52 BC; the women and children of the encircled city were evicted to conserve food, where they starved to death between the opposing walls of the defenders and besiegers. And the siege of Uxellodunum in 51 BC. These are all sieges of large Gallic \"oppida\". Of the sites involved in Caesar's civil war, we find the Siege of Massilia in 49 BC, the Battle of Dyrrhachium of 48 BC (modern Albania), the Battle of Pharsalus in 48 BC (Hellas – Greece), the Battle of Zela of 47 BC (modern Turkey) and the Battle of Thapsus in 46 BC in Caesar's African campaign. A legion that fits the same sequence of locations is the Legio VI Ferrata, of which \"ballista\" would be an auxiliary unit.\n\nMainly known for his writings, Vitruvius was himself an architect. In Roman times architecture was a broader subject than at present including the modern fields of architecture, construction management, construction engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, materials engineering, mechanical engineering, military engineering and urban planning; architectural engineers consider him the first of their discipline, a specialization previously known as technical architecture. Frontinus mentions him in connection with the standard sizes of pipes. He is often credited as father of architectural acoustics for describing the technique of \"echeas\" placement in theaters. The only building, however, that we know Vitruvius to have worked on is one he tells us about, a \"basilica\" completed in 19 BC. It was built at Fanum Fortunae, now the modern town of Fano. The \"Basilica di Fano\" (to give the building its Italian name) has disappeared so completely that its very site is a matter of conjecture, although various attempts have been made to visualise it. The early Christian practice of converting Roman \"basilicae\" (public buildings) into cathedrals implies the \"basilica\" may be incorporated into the cathedral in Fano.\n\nIn later years the emperor Augustus, through his sister Octavia Minor, sponsored Vitruvius, entitling him with what may have been a pension to guarantee financial independence. Whether \"De architectura\" was written by one author or is a compilation completed by subsequent librarians and copyists, remains an open question. The date of his death is unknown, which suggests that he had enjoyed only little popularity during his lifetime.\n\nGerolamo Cardano, in his 1552 book \"De subtilitate rerum\", ranks Vitruvius as one of the 12 persons whom he supposes to have excelled all men in the force of genius and invention; and would not have scrupled to have given him the first place, if it could be imagined that he had delivered nothing but his own discoveries.\n\nVitruvius is the author of \"De architectura\", known today as \"The Ten Books on Architecture\", a treatise written in Latin on architecture, dedicated to the emperor Augustus. In the preface of Book I, Vitruvius dedicates his writings so as to give personal knowledge of the quality of buildings to the emperor. Likely Vitruvius is referring to Marcus Agrippa's campaign of public repairs and improvements. This work is the only surviving major book on architecture from classical antiquity. According to Petri Liukkonen, this text \"influenced deeply from the Early Renaissance onwards artists, thinkers, and architects, among them Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472), Leonardo da Vinci (1452–1519), and Michelangelo (1475–1564).\" The next major book on architecture, Alberti's reformulation of \"Ten Books\", was not written until 1452.\n\nVitruvius is famous for asserting in his book \"De architectura\" that a structure must exhibit the three qualities of \"firmitatis, utilitatis, venustatis\" – that is, stability, utility, beauty. These are sometimes termed the Vitruvian virtues or the Vitruvian Triad. According to Vitruvius, architecture is an imitation of nature. As birds and bees built their nests, so humans constructed housing from natural materials, that gave them shelter against the elements. When perfecting this art of building, the Greeks invented the architectural orders: Doric, Ionic and Corinthian. It gave them a sense of proportion, culminating in understanding the proportions of the greatest work of art: the human body. This led Vitruvius in defining his Vitruvian Man, as drawn later by Leonardo da Vinci: the human body inscribed in the circle and the square (the fundamental geometric patterns of the cosmic order). In this book series, Vitruvius, also wrote about climate in relation to housing architecture and how to choose locations for cities.\n\nVitruvius is sometimes loosely referred to as the first architect, but it is more accurate to describe him as the first Roman architect to have written surviving records of his field. He himself cites older but less complete works. He was less an original thinker or creative intellect than a codifier of existing architectural practice. It should also be noted that Vitruvius had a much wider scope than modern architects. Roman architects practised a wide variety of disciplines; in modern terms, they could be described as being engineers, architects, landscape architects, surveyors, artists, and craftsmen combined. Etymologically the word architect derives from Greek words meaning 'master' and 'builder'. The first of the \"Ten Books\" deals with many subjects which now come within the scope of landscape architecture.\n\nIn Book I, Chapter 1, titled The Education of the Architect, Vitruvius instructs...\n\nHe goes on to say that the architect should be versed in drawing, geometry, optics (lighting), history, philosophy, music, theatre, medicine, and law.\n\nIn Book I, Chapter 3 (\"The Departments of Architecture\"), Vitruvius divides architecture into three branches, namely; building; the construction of sundials and water clocks; and the design and use of machines in construction and warfare. He further divides building into public and private. Public building includes city planning, public security structures such as walls, gates and towers; the convenient placing of public facilities such as theatres, forums and markets, baths, roads and pavings; and the construction and position of shrines and temples for religious use. Later books are devoted to the understanding, design and construction of each of these.\n\nIn Book III, Chapter 1, Paragraph 3, Vitruvius writes about the proportions of man...\nIt was upon these writings that Leonardo da Vinci based his Vitruvian Man.\n\nVitruvius described the human figure as being the principal source of proportion.\n\nThe drawing itself is often used as an implied symbol of the essential symmetry of the human body, and by extension, of the universe as a whole.\n\nIn the introduction to book seven, Vitruvius goes to great lengths to present why he is qualified to write \"De Architectura\". This is the only location in the work where Vitruvius specifically addresses his personal breadth of knowledge. Similar to a modern reference section, the author's position as one who is knowledgeable and educated is established. The topics range across many fields of expertise reflecting that in Roman times as today construction is a diverse field. Vitruvius is clearly a well-read man.\n\nIn addition to providing his qualification, Vitruvius summarizes a recurring theme throughout the 10 books, a non-trivial and core contribution of his treatise beyond simply being a construction book. Vitruvius makes the point that the work of some of the most talented are unknown, while many of those of lesser talent but greater political position are famous. This theme runs through Vitruvius’s ten books repeatedly – echoing an implicit prediction that he and his works will also be forgotten.\n\nVitruvius illustrates this point by naming what he considers are the most talented individuals in history. Implicitly challenging the reader that they have never heard of some of these people, Vitruvius goes on and predicts that some of these individuals will be forgotten and their works lost, while other, less deserving political characters of history will be forever remembered with pageantry.\n\nVitruvius' \"De architectura\" was rediscovered in 1414 by the Florentine humanist Poggio Bracciolini in the library of Saint Gall Abbey. Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472) publicised it in his seminal treatise on architecture, \"De re aedificatoria\" (c. 1450). The first known Latin printed edition was by Fra Giovanni Sulpitius in Rome, 1486. Translations followed in Italian (Como, 1521), French (Jean Martin, 1547, English, German (Walter H. Ryff, 1543) and Spanish and several other languages. The original illustrations had been lost and the first illustrated edition was published in Venice in 1511 with woodcut illustrations, based on descriptions in the text, probably by Fra Giovanni Giocondo. Later in the 16th-century Andrea Palladio provided illustrations for Daniele Barbaro's commentary on Vitruvius, published in Italian and Latin versions. The most famous illustration is probably Da Vinci's \"Vitruvian Man\".\n\nThe surviving ruins of Roman antiquity, the Roman Forum, temples, theatres, triumphal arches and their reliefs and statues offered visual examples of the descriptions in the Vitruvian text. Printed and illustrated editions of \"De Architectura\" inspired Renaissance, Baroque and Neoclassical architecture. Filippo Brunelleschi, for example, invented a new type of hoist to lift the large stones for the dome of the cathedral in Florence and was inspired by \"De Architectura\" as well as surviving Roman monuments such as the Pantheon and the Baths of Diocletian.\n\nLatin\n\nItalian\n\nFrench\n\nEnglish\n\nBooks VIII, IX and X form the basis of much of what we know about Roman technology, now augmented by archaeological studies of extant remains, such as the water mills at Barbegal in France. The other major source of information is the \"Naturalis Historia\" compiled by Pliny the Elder much later in c. 75 AD.\n\nThe work is important for its descriptions of the many different machines used for engineering structures such as hoists, cranes and pulleys, as well as war machines such as catapults, \"ballistae,\" and siege engines. As a practising engineer, Vitruvius must be speaking from personal experience rather than simply describing the works of others. He also describes the construction of sundials and water clocks, and the use of an aeolipile (the first steam engine) as an experiment to demonstrate the nature of atmospheric air movements (wind).\n\nHis description of aqueduct construction includes the way they are surveyed, and the careful choice of materials needed, although Frontinus (a general who was appointed in the late 1st century AD to administer the many aqueducts of Rome), writing a century later, gives much more detail of the practical problems involved in their construction and maintenance. Surely Vitruvius' book would have been of great assistance in this. Vitruvius was writing in the 1st century BC when many of the finest Roman aqueducts were built, and survive to this day, such as those at Segovia and the Pont du Gard. The use of the inverted siphon is described in detail, together with the problems of high pressures developed in the pipe at the base of the siphon, a practical problem with which he seems to be acquainted.\n\nHe describes many different construction materials used for a wide variety of different structures, as well as such details as stucco painting. Concrete and lime receive in-depth descriptions.\n\nVitruvius is cited as one of the earliest sources to connect lead mining and manufacture, its use in drinking water pipes, and its adverse effects on health. For this reason, he recommended the use of clay pipes and masonry channels in the provision of piped drinking-water.\n\nVitruvius is the source for the anecdote that credits Archimedes with the discovery of the mass-to-volume ratio while relaxing in his bath. Having been asked to investigate the suspected adulteration of the gold used to make a crown, Archimedes realised that the crown's volume could be measured exactly by its displacement of water, and ran into the street with the cry of\" Eureka!\"\n\nHe describes the construction of Archimedes' screw in Chapter X (without mentioning Archimedes by name). It was a device widely used for raising water to irrigate fields and drain mines. Other lifting machines he mentions include the endless chain of buckets and the reverse overshot water-wheel. Remains of the water wheels used for lifting water were discovered when old mines were re-opened at Rio Tinto in Spain, Rosia Montana in Romania and Dolaucothi in west Wales. The Rio Tinto wheel is now shown in the British Museum, and the Dolaucothi specimen in the National Museum of Wales.\n\nThat he must have been well practised in surveying is shown by his descriptions of surveying instruments, especially the water level or \"chorobates,\" which he compares favourably with the \"groma,\" a device using plumb lines. They were essential in all building operations, but especially in aqueduct construction, where a uniform gradient was important to the provision of a regular supply of water without damage to the walls of the channel. He also developed one of the first odometers, consisting of a wheel of known circumference that dropped a pebble into a container on every rotation.\n\nHe describes the many innovations made in building design to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants. Foremost among them is the development of the \"hypocaust,\" a type of central heating where hot air developed by a fire was channelled under the floor and inside the walls of public baths and villas. He gives explicit instructions how to design such buildings so that fuel efficiency is maximised, so that for example, the \"caldarium\" is next to the \"tepidarium\" followed by the \"frigidarium.\" He also advises on using a type of regulator to control the heat in the hot rooms, a bronze disc set into the roof under a circular aperture which could be raised or lowered by a pulley to adjust the ventilation. Although he does not suggest it himself, it is likely that his dewatering devices such as the reverse overshot water-wheel was used in the larger baths to lift water to header tanks at the top of the larger \"thermae\", such as the Baths of Diocletian. The one which was used in Bath of Caracalla for grinding flour.\n\n\n\n (Morris Hicky Morgan translation with illustrations)\n"}
{"id": "53429879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53429879", "title": "YGLP", "text": "YGLP\n\nYGLP (Young Global Leadership Program) is an international leadership program for university and high school students.\nIt is founded and developed by Human Science Lab, London, with support from several foundations and transnational organisations. It uses outcomes from some of its core research on human cognition, leadership and critical thinking. \n\nYGLP is run in five regional groupings – Asia, Americas, Europe, Africa and the Oceania. The assignment of countries or territories to YGLP regional groupings is done in accordance with United Nations geoscheme. \n\nVarious research programs on human cognition, leadership, critical thinking, physical spatiality and intelligence at Human Science Lab, London, provides the scientific framework for YGLP. \n\nYGLP is based on the Four Step Leadership Theory formulated at Human Science Lab. According to the theory “the leadership achievement of an individual is proportional to the optimal use of four principal components that makes a leader – motivation, planning, energising and executing”. YGLP is designed to optimise this four key leadership component with each program module focusing on a single component. \n\nYGLP is executed through two fellow programs. The YGLP Senior fellow program is meant for university students in the age of 19 to 25 years and the Junior fellow program is for high school student in the age of 13 to 19 years. Eligible students for YGLP fellow program are selected through a leadership aptitude evaluation process. \n\nThe YGLP fellow program is made of four core modules and one non-core module involving various instructional and resource materials, leadership workshops and leadership conferences. \n\nYGLP is run in 44 Asian countries and 2 Special Administrative Regions as YGLP Asia. This is the list of countries where YGLP Asia is administered. \n\n"}
