{"id": "24759284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24759284", "title": "2009 Sidekick data loss", "text": "2009 Sidekick data loss\n\nThe Sidekick data outage of 2009 resulted in an estimated 800,000 smartphone users in the United States temporarily losing personal data, such as emails, address books and photos from their mobile handsets. The computer servers holding the data were run by Microsoft. The brand of phone affected was the Danger Hiptop, also known as the \"Sidekick\", and were connected via the T-Mobile cellular network. At the time, it was described as the biggest disaster in cloud computing history.\nThe Sidekick smartphones were originally produced by Danger, Inc., a company that was bought by Microsoft in February 2007. After the acquisition, the former Danger staff were then absorbed into the Mobile Communications Business (MCB) of the Entertainment and Devices Division at Microsoft, where they worked on a future Microsoft mobile phone platform known as \"Project Pink\". However, most of the ex-Danger employees soon left Microsoft to pursue other things. Microsoft took over the running of the data servers, and its data centers were hosting the customers' data at the time it was lost.\n\nOn Friday, October 2, 2009, T-Mobile Sidekick phone users started noticing data service outages occurring. The outages lasted approximately two weeks, and on October 10, 2009, T-Mobile announced that personal information stored on Sidekick phones would be permanently lost, which turned out to be incorrect.\n\nAccording to the Financial Times, Microsoft said the data center it acquired from Danger 18 months previously had not been \"updated to run on Microsoft technology.\" A company statement said the mishap was due to \"a confluence of errors from a server failure that hurt its main and backup databases supporting Sidekick users.\" T-Mobile blamed Microsoft for the loss of data.\n\nThe incident caused a public loss of confidence in the concept of cloud computing, which had been plagued by a series of outages and data losses in 2009. It also was problematic for Microsoft, which at the time was trying to convince corporate clients to use its cloud computing services, such as Azure and My Phone.\n\nOn October 14, 2009, a class action lawsuit was launched against Microsoft and T-mobile. The lawsuit alleged:\n\nT-Mobile and Microsoft promised to safeguard the most important data their customers possess and then apparently failed to follow even the most basic data protection principles. What they did is unthinkable in this day and age.\n\nThe class action lawsuit was settled in 2011, with affected users compensated with a \"$35 T-Mobile gift card, a $17.50 check payment, or up to 12 free downloadable items.\"\n\nOn October 15, Microsoft said they had been able to recover most or all data and would begin to restore them.\n\nMicrosoft CEO, Steve Ballmer disputed whether there had been a data loss at all, instead describing it as an outage. Ballmer said, “It is not clear there was data loss\". However, he said the incident was \"not good\" for Microsoft.\n\nIt should be noted that even before this data loss, Danger had marketed an application for Windows computers which would back up all Sidekick data onto a user's computer and also to allow changes to be made and then re-downloaded to the Sidekick in real-time. Users who had this backup storage option were able to save all of their data. In the United States, T-mobile marketed this application for a one-time charge of $10. Immediately after the data had been restored to all their users, T-mobile incorporated the Sidekick storage website with the regular T-mobile backup site. The application to the user's personal computer, the Danger backup site, and the T-mobile backup site could then be synchronized together.\n"}
{"id": "754089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=754089", "title": "Accademia della Crusca", "text": "Accademia della Crusca\n\nThe Accademia della Crusca (\"Academy of the Bran\"), generally abbreviated as La Crusca, is an Italian society for scholars and Italian linguists and philologists established in Florence. It is the most important research institution on the Italian language as well as the oldest linguistic academy in the world.\n\nThe Accademia was founded in Florence in 1583. It has been characterized by its efforts to maintain the purity of the Italian language. \"\" means \"bran\" in Italian, which conveys the metaphor that its work is similar to winnowing as it is well explained by the emblem of the Accademia della Crusca that depicts a sifter that is straining out corrupt words and structures (as wheat is separated from bran). The academy motto is \"Il più bel fior ne coglie\" ('She gathers the fairest flower'), a famous verse of the Italian poet Francesco Petrarca. In 1612, the \"Accademia\" published the first edition of its Dictionary, the \"Vocabolario degli Accademici della Crusca\", which also served as the model for similar works in French, Spanish, German and English.\n\nThe academy is a member of the European Federation of National Linguistic Institutes.\n\nThe founders were originally called the \"brigata dei Crusconi\" and constituted a circle composed of poets, men of letters, and lawyers. The members usually assembled on pleasant and convivial occasions, during which \"cruscate\" — discourses in a merry and playful style, which have neither a beginning nor an end — were recited. The Crusconi used humour, satire, and irony to distance itself from the pedantry of the Accademia Fiorentina, protected by Grand Duke Cosimo I de' Medici, and to contrast itself with the severe and classic style of that body. This battle was fought without compromising the primary intention of the group, which was typically literary, and expounded in high quality literary disputes.\n\nThe founders of the Accademia della Crusca are traditionally identified as Giovanni Battista Deti (‘Sollo’), Antonio Francesco Grazzini (‘Lasca’), Bernardo Canigiani (‘Gramolato’), Bernardo Zanchini (‘Macerato’), Bastiano de’ Rossi (‘Inferigno’); they were joined in October 1582 by Lionardo Salviati ('Infarinato') (1540–1589). Under his leadership, at the beginning of 1583, the Accademia took on a new form, directing itself to demonstrate and to conserve the beauty of the Florentine vulgar tongue, modelled upon the authors of the Trecento.\n\nOne of the earliest scholars to influence the work of the Crusca was Agnolo Monosini. He contributed greatly to the 1612 edition of \"Vocabolario della lingua italiana\", especially with regard to the influence of Greek, which, he maintained, made a significant contribution to the Fiorentine idiom of the period.\n\nThe Accademia thus abandoned the jocular character of its earlier meetings in order to take up the normative role it would assume from then on. The very title of the Accademia came to be interpreted in a new way: the academicians of the Crusca would now work to distinguish the good and pure part of the language (the \"farina\", or whole wheat) from the bad and impure part (the \"crusca\", or bran). From this is derived the symbolism of the Crusca: its logo shows a \"frullone\" or sifter with the Petrarchan motto \"Il più bel fior ne coglie\" (She gathers the fairest flower). The members of the Accademia were given nicknames associated with corn and flour, and seats in the form of breadbaskets with backs in the shape of bread shovel were used for their meetings.\n\nIn 1636, Cardinal Richelieu created the Académie française on the model of the Accademia della Crusca.\n\nThe linguistic purism of the Accademia found opposition in Cesare Beccaria and the Verri brothers (Pietro and Alessandro), who through their journal \"Il Caffè\" systematically attacked the Accademia's archaisms as pedantic, denouncing the Accademia while invoking for contrast no less than the likes of Galileo and Newton and even modern intellectual cosmopolitanism itself. However, since Galileo published his scientific works in his native Florentine Italian, as opposed to the Latin which was customary for academic works of the time, it has also been argued that he implicitly supported the Accademia's purpose.\n\nThe Accademia's activities carried on with both high- and low- points until 1783, when Pietro Leopoldo quit and, with several other academicians, created the second Accademia Fiorentina. In 1808, however, the third Accademia Fiorentina was founded and, by a decree of 19 January 1811, signed by Napoleon, the Crusca was re-established with its own status of autonomy, statutes and previous aims.\n\nIn the 20th century, the decree of 11 March 1923 changed its composition and its purpose. The compilation of the \"Vocabolario\", hitherto the duty of the Crusca, was removed from it and passed to a private society of scholars; the Crusca was entrusted with the compilation of philological texts. In 1955, however, Bruno Migliorini and others began discussion of the return of the work of preparing the \" Vocabolario\" to the Crusca.\n\nIn 2007, the website E-leo compiling 3,000 drawings and writings of Leonardo da Vinci was launched, with the linguistic help of the Accademia della Crusca to decipher some of the inventor's scribblings.\n\nIn August 2011, the existence of the Accademia was threatened when Giulio Tremonti and Silvio Berlusconi introduced a proposition to eradicate all public-funded entities with less than 70 members. In August 2015, the Accademia's website was defaced by a hacker linked to ISIS.\n\nIn February 2016, the Accademia approved the submission of an 8-year old for a new Italian word, \"Petaloso\" (full of petals).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7775366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7775366", "title": "Atatürkist Thought Association", "text": "Atatürkist Thought Association\n\nThe Atatürkist (Kemalist) Thought Association (Turkish: Atatürkçü Düşünce Derneği or ADD) is a secularist organization that espouses the ideas of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founder of modern Turkey. It was founded by Professor Hıfzı Veldet Velidedeoğlu, Professor Muammer Aksoy and Associate Professor Bahriye Üçok.\n\nThe association is opposed to the Islamist tenets enacted by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in Iran and wants to ensure that religion and state remain separate in Turkey. The organization is known for initiating court cases against web sites which insult Atatürk, or with links to sites that insult Atatürk. It is credited with organising the 2007 Republic Protests.\n\nPeople associated with ADD include former President of the Constitutional Court of Turkey Yekta Güngör Özden, former General Şener Eruygur (its head in 2009) and Tansel Çölaşan (its head since 2010).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "643854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643854", "title": "Bourgeois nationalism", "text": "Bourgeois nationalism\n\nIn Marxism, bourgeois nationalism is the practice by the ruling classes of deliberately dividing people by nationality, race, ethnicity, or religion, so as to distract them from initiating class warfare. It is seen as a divide and conquer strategy used by the ruling classes to prevent the working class from uniting against them (hence the Marxist slogan, \"Workers of all countries, unite!\").\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the Bolshevik government based its nationalities policy (korenization) on the principles of Marxist–Leninist ideology. According to these principles, all nations should disappear with time, and nationalism was considered a bourgeois ideology.\n\nIn his Report on the 50th anniversary of the formation of the USSR, Leonid Brezhnev emphasized: \"That is why Communists and all fighters for socialism believe that the main aspect of the national question is unification of the working people, regardless of their national origin, in the common battle against every type of oppression, and for a new social system which rules out exploitation of the working people.\"\n\n\"Bourgeois nationalism\" as a concept was discussed in China by Liu Shaoqi as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "44470836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44470836", "title": "British Ladies' Football Club", "text": "British Ladies' Football Club\n\nThe British Ladies' Football Club was an all-woman football team formed in the United Kingdom in 1885. The team had as its patron Lady Florence Dixie, an aristocrat from Dumfries, and its first captain was Nettie Honeyball (real name likely Mary Hutson).\n\nThe club's first public match took place at Crouch End, London on 23 March 1895, between teams representing 'The North' and 'The South'. The North won 7–1 in front of an estimated 11,000 spectators.\n\nUntil the 19th century, women's participation in football was limited to folk rituals linked with marriage customs. In Inverness, for example, single women would annually play a match with married women, whilst prospective husbands watched from the sidelines. The first record of a woman's team coming together to play football occurred on 9 May 1881, at Edinburgh's Easter Road Stadium. The match was billed as a Scotland v England international and featured Mrs Graham's XI.\n\nJust over a week later, on 20 May 1881, the teams played in Glasgow in front of a crowd of 5,000. This match had to be abandoned following a violent pitch invasion during which the women were \"roughly \", and chased by a mob as they left the grounds. Further games resulted in similar pitch invasions, which soon resulting in ending this early attempt to introduce women's football.\n\nIt is uncertain, from the coverage of the time, what the pitch invasions were in protest against. However, the press tone, which would dominate coverage of women's football for the next century, was clearly established in 1881: barely disguised contempt regarding player appearance, including costume, and the standard of play, overlaid with a certainty that football was a rough man's game unsuitable for women.\n\nAn attempt to form a new club was made by Alfred Hewitt Smith with Nettie Honeyball as the figurehead for the British Ladies Football Club founded on 1 January 1895. Lady Florence Dixie, the youngest daughter of the Marquess of Queensbury, acted as chairman and sponsor. In 1894, an advertisement was placed in the Daily Graphic seeking those interested in forming a football club for women which attracted around 30 women, who trained twice weekly under the tutelage of Tottenham Hotspur wing-half Bill Julian.\n\nThe club divided into a north and south team and on 23 March 1895, 10,000 spectators watched the inaugural game at Crouch End, London. Unlike in the matches of 1881, players no longer had to wear corsets and high-heeled boots, but acquired standard man's boots in suitable sizes. They still had to wear bonnets, with the game being stopped if any woman headed the ball and it dislodged either bonnet or hairpin which had to be replaced before the game could resume.\n\nThe reaction was generally one of being heckled by the crowd, and press censure, bordering on derision.\n\nDespite this, the club went on tour, sponsored by Lady Dixie, and in the following two years played some 100 exhibition matches. The tour attracted great publicity from the press, though not entirely restricted to the sport as, at the time, women playing football was intricately linked to the 'Rights question'.\n\nThe strain of playing so often took its toll, and by September 1896 the ladies could only field a few players. They were also broke, and arriving in Exeter found they had insufficient funds to either leave or pay their hotel bill. Appeals to the mayor of Exeter fell on deaf ears and he refused to pay. The ladies had to be rescued by friends, and the activities of the club came to an end.\n\nWomen's football once again fell into obscurity until the First World War, when Lloyd George required women to work in factories whilst the men were at the front. On Christmas Day, 1916, the first recorded match between factory organised women's teams, occurred in Ulverston, Cumbria.\n\nIn a year when the cultural, social and public concern over what was decent and what was unnatural were already focused, football for women raised important issues within Victorian society, including dress reform, the feminine ideal, women's sexuality, and the rigid British class structure in a way that no other sport could.\n\nLady Dixie, a keen advocate of women's rights, believed that football was excellent for women's physiques, and predicted a day when it would be as popular with girls as with boys. Moreover, she was a supporter of the rational dress movement, which sought to liberate women from the corsets and petticoats of Victorian society. She, therefore, saw football as a weapon of subversion and a means of \"pushing the boundaries\", since the members of the club played openly in knickers and blouses.\n\nNettie Honeyball was well aware of the political ramifications, telling an interviewer that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "537481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537481", "title": "Building code", "text": "Building code\n\nA building code (also building control or building regulations) is a set of rules that specify the standards for constructed objects such as buildings and nonbuilding structures. Buildings must conform to the code to obtain planning permission, usually from a local council. The main purpose of building codes is to protect public health, safety and general welfare as they relate to the construction and occupancy of buildings and structures. The building code becomes law of a particular jurisdiction when formally enacted by the appropriate governmental or private authority.\n\nBuilding codes are generally intended to be applied by architects, engineers, interior designers, constructors and regulators but are also used for various purposes by safety inspectors, environmental scientists, real estate developers, subcontractors, manufacturers of building products and materials, insurance companies, facility managers, tenants, and others. Codes regulate the design and construction of structures where adopted into law.\n\nExamples of building codes began in ancient times. In the USA the main codes are the International Commercial or Residential Code [ICC/IRC], electrical codes and plumbing, mechanical codes. Fifty states and the District of Columbia have adopted the I-Codes at the state or jurisdictional level. In Canada, national model codes are published by the National Research Council of Canada.\n\nThe practice of developing, approving, and enforcing building codes varies considerably among nations. In some countries building codes are developed by the government agencies or quasi-governmental standards organizations and then enforced across the country by the central government. Such codes are known as the national building codes (in a sense they enjoy a mandatory nationwide application).\n\nIn other countries, where the power of regulating construction and fire safety is vested in local authorities, a system of model building codes is used. Model building codes have no legal status unless adopted or adapted by an authority having jurisdiction. The developers of model codes urge public authorities to reference model codes in their laws, ordinances, regulations, and administrative orders. When referenced in any of these legal instruments, a particular model code becomes law. This practice is known as \"adoption by reference\". When an adopting authority decides to delete, add, or revise any portions of the model code adopted, it is usually required by the model code developer to follow a formal adoption procedure in which those modifications can be documented for legal purposes.\n\nThere are instances when some local jurisdictions choose to develop their own building codes. At some point in time all major cities in the United States had their own building codes. However, due to ever increasing complexity and cost of developing building regulations, virtually all municipalities in the country have chosen to adopt model codes instead. For example, in 2008 New York City abandoned its proprietary \"1968 New York City Building Code\" in favor of a customized version of the International Building Code. The City of Chicago remains the only municipality in America that continues to use a building code the city developed on its own as part of the \"Municipal Code of Chicago\".\n\nIn Europe, the Eurocode is a pan-European building code that has superseded the older national building codes. Each country now has National Annexes to localize the contents of the Eurocode.\n\nSimilarly, in India, each municipality and urban development authority has its own building code, which is mandatory for all construction within their jurisdiction. All these local building codes are variants of a National Building Code, which serves as model code proving guidelines for regulating building construction activity.\n\nBuilding codes have a long history. The earliest known written building code is included in the Code of Hammurabi, which dates from circa 1772 BC.\n\nThe book of Deuteronomy in the Hebrew Bible stipulated that parapets must be constructed on all houses to prevent people from falling off.\n\nAfter the Great Fire of London in 1666, which had been able to spread so rapidly through the densely built timber housing of the city, the Rebuilding of London Act was passed in the same year as the first significant building regulation. Drawn up by Sir Matthew Hale, the Act regulated the rebuilding of the city, required housing to have some fire resistance capacity and authorised the City of London Corporation to reopen and widen roads. The Laws of the Indies were passed in the 1680s by the Spanish Crown to regulate the urban planning for colonies throughout Spain's worldwide imperial possessions.\n\nThe first systematic national building standard was established with the London Building Act of 1844. Among the provisions, builders were required to give the district surveyor two days' notice before building, regulations regarding the thickness of walls, height of rooms, the materials used in repairs, the dividing of existing buildings and the placing and design of chimneys, fireplaces and drains were to be enforced and streets had to be built to minimum requirements.\n\nThe Metropolitan Buildings Office was formed to regulate the construction and use of buildings throughout London. Surveyors were empowered to enforce building regulations, which sought to improve the standard of houses and business premises, and to regulate activities that might threaten public health. In 1855 the assets, powers and responsibilities of the office passed to the Metropolitan Board of Works.\n\nThe City of Baltimore passed its first building code in 1859. The Great Baltimore Fire occurred in February, 1904. Subsequent changes were made that matched other cities. In 1904, a Handbook of the Baltimore City Building Laws was published. It served as the building code for four years. Very soon, a formal building code was drafted and eventually adopted in 1908.\n\nIn Paris, under the reconstruction of much of the city under the Second Empire (1852–70), great blocks of apartments were erected and the height of buildings was limited by law to five or six stories at most.\n\nThe purpose of building codes is to provide minimum standards for safety, health, and general welfare including structural integrity, mechanical integrity (including sanitation, water supply, light, and ventilation), means of egress, fire prevention and control, and energy conservation.\nBuilding codes generally include:\n\nBuilding codes are generally separate from zoning ordinances, but exterior restrictions (such as setbacks) may fall into either category.\n\nDesigners use building code standards out of substantial reference books during design. Building departments review plans submitted to them before construction, issue permits [or not] and inspectors verify compliance to these standards at the site during construction.\n\nThere are often additional codes or sections of the same building code that have more specific requirements that apply to dwellings or places of business and special construction objects such as canopies, signs, pedestrian walkways, parking lots, and radio and television antennas.\n\nThe energy codes of the United States are adopted at the state and municipal levels and are based on the International Energy Conservation Code (IECC). Previously, they were based on the Model Energy Code (MEC).\n\nAs of March 2017, the following residential codes have been partially or fully adopted by states:\n\n\nAs of September 2005, the following residential energy codes had been partially or fully adopted by states:\n\n\nAs of January 2004, the following residential energy codes had been partially or fully adopted by states:\n\n\nAs of Fall 2000, the following residential energy codes had been partially or fully adopted by states:\n\n\nAs of 1998, three states (Ohio, Michigan, and Virginia) had adopted the 1993 MEC residential energy code. The remaining states had adopted either: a state-written code; a regional code; a prior version of the MEC or American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers standards; or no code at all.\n\n"}
{"id": "11378407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11378407", "title": "CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme", "text": "CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme\n\nThe CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme (the CRC, formerly the Carbon Reduction Commitment) is a mandatory carbon emissions reduction scheme in the United Kingdom that applies to large energy-intensive organisations in the public and private sectors. It has been estimated that the scheme will reduce carbon emissions by 1.2 million tonnes of carbon per year by 2020. In an effort to avoid dangerous climate change, the British Government first committed to cutting UK carbon emissions by 60% by 2050 (compared to 1990 levels), and in October 2008 increased this commitment to 80%. The scheme has also been credited with driving up demand for energy-efficient goods and services.\n\nThe CRC was announced in the 2007 Energy White Paper, published on 23 May 2007. A consultation in 2006 showed strong support for it to be mandatory, rather than voluntary. The Commitment was introduced under enabling powers in Part 3 of the Climate Change Act 2008. A consultation into the scheme's implementation was launched in June 2007. The Scheme is being introduced under the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Order 2010.\n\nThe first performance league table was published on 8 November 2011. It was based on the scheme's early action metric, which is a measure of good energy management prior to the establishment of an energy baseline. In the future the table will use a growth and an absolute metrics from this baseline. The table is expected to be particularly useful to ethical and green investors. Many notable brands are listed in the League table including the big four supermarkets, Asda (37), Morrisons (56), Tesco (93), and Sainsburys (164). In all 22 organisations shared first position, news stories focused on the fact that Manchester United Football Club was one of those at the top of the table.\nIt has been announced that after July 2013, these league and performance tables will no longer be published, and will instead be replaced by a publication of participants' energy use and emissions.\n\nThe CRC scheme will apply to organisations that have a half-hourly metered electricity consumption greater than 6,000 MWh per year. Organisations qualifying for CRC would have all their energy use covered by the scheme, including emissions from direct energy use as well as electricity purchased. Such organisations - including hotel chains, supermarkets, banks, central government and large Local Authorities - mostly fall below the threshold for the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, but account for around 10% of the UK carbon emissions. Emissions covered by the EU Energy Trading Scheme and by a Climate Change Agreement would be exempt from the CRC, as would organisations with more than 25% of their emissions covered by Climate Change Agreements.\n\nHalf-hourly meters (HHM) record electricity consumption for every half-hour of every day, and generally provide this data to the supplier automatically via a telephone connection. Some organisations with high annual energy consumption do not use HHM, as their supplies are mainly on unrestricted or Economy 7 (day/night or 'evening and weekend') tariffs. However, they may nevertheless have to provide 'footprint reports'.\n\nAlthough mandatory, the CRC will involve self-certification of emissions, backed up by spot audits, as opposed to third-party verification. Emission allowances are to be auctioned rather than grandfathered (as was the case in the initial stages of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme). The original proposal envisaged a revenue recycling mechanism, however this was removed to support the public finances after the comprehensive spending review. The Government announced in the budget the allowance price of £12/tCO2 for the first sale. They have also suggested there should be two fixed price sales in the first year of the scheme.\n\nOn 30 June 2011 the Government announced its initial proposals on simplifying the scheme. This came from the dialogue process the Department of Energy and Climate Change had been running from January, which was in response to the concerns of those organisations participating in the scheme that it was overly complex and this made compliance difficult and costly. The draft legislative proposals will be published in early 2012 for formal public consultation which will amend the existing CRC scheme. Among these proposals will be, continuing the fixed price sale (rather than auctions of allowances in a capped system) into the second phase, as recommended by the Committee on Climate Change, provide business with greater flexibility by allowing organisations to participate as natural business units, reducing the number of the fuels which are subject to the scheme from 30 to 4, removing the complex 90% rule and CCA exemption rules, whilst achieving broadly the same outcomes) and reducing overlap with other government schemes such as EU Emission Trading Scheme and Climate Change Agreements.\n\nIt has been suggested that the effectiveness of the CRC is limited by its overlap with the EU ETS. Critics argue that as companies reduce their electricity consumption, power stations produce less electricity and so require fewer EU Allowances; other entities covered by the ETS are then able to use these allowances for their own emissions. It has been suggested that allowances should be removed from the ETS in accordance with electricity reductions made under the CRC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45173", "title": "Carabinieri", "text": "Carabinieri\n\nThe Carabinieri (formally \"Arma dei Carabinieri\", \"Carabinieri Force\" or previously \"Corpo dei Carabinieri Reali\", \"Royal Carabinieri Corps\"; ) are the national gendarmerie of Italy who primarily carry out domestic policing duties. Unlike the Polizia di Stato, one of Italy's other main law enforcement agencies, the Carabinieri are a military force (Guardia di Finanza, another law enforcement agency in Italy is military too). As the fourth branch of the Italian Armed Forces, they come under the authority of the Ministry of Defence. In practice, there is a significant overlap between the jurisdiction of the Polizia di Stato and Carabinieri, who are contacted on separate emergency telephone numbers. Unlike the Polizia di Stato, the Carabinieri have responsibility for policing the military, and a number of members regularly participates in military missions abroad.\n\nCarabinieri have policing powers that can be exercised at any time and in any part of the country, and they are always permitted to carry their assigned weapon as personal equipment (Beretta 92FS pistol). It was originally founded as the police force of the Kingdom of Sardinia, the forerunner of the Kingdom of Italy. During the process of Italian unification, it was appointed the \"First Force\" of the new national military organisation. Although the Carabinieri assisted in the suppression of opposition during the rule of Benito Mussolini, they were also responsible for his downfall and many units were disbanded during World War II by Nazi Germany, which resulted in large numbers of Carabinieri joining the Italian resistance movement. Since 2001, it has been one of the four Italian Armed Forces.\n\nInspired by the French Gendarmerie, the corps was created by King Victor Emmanuel I of Savoy with the aim of providing the Kingdom of Sardinia with a police corps. Previously, police duties were managed by the \"Dragoni di Sardegna Corps,\" created in 1726 and composed of volunteers. After French soldiers had occupied Turin at the end of the 18th century and later abandoned it to the Kingdom of Piedmont, the Royal Carabinieri Corps was instituted under the Royal Patents of 13 July 1814.\n\nThe name derives from the French word \"carabinier\", meaning \"soldier armed with a carbine.\"\n\nThe new force was divided into divisions on the scale of one division for each province. The divisions were further divided into companies and subdivided into lieutenancies, which commanded and coordinated the local police stations and were distributed throughout the national territory in direct contact with the public.\n\nIn 1868, the \"Corazzieri\" mounted division was formed – initially as an escort of honour for the sovereign, and since 1946 for the President of the Republic. The Italian unification saw the number of divisions increased, and on 24 January 1861 the \"Carabinieri\" were appointed the \"First Force\" of the new national military organization.\n\nIn May 1915 Italian troops marched to encompass South Tyrol, territory of their former allies the Austro-Hungarian empire, in the Fronte italiano campaign. The defenders had sufficient time to prepare strong fortifications there, and in the Carso theatre to the east, and the Italian regiments, under overall command of General Cadorna, found themselves repeatedly repulsed in harsh fighting. The role of the Carabinieri was to act as barrier troops, setting up machine gun posts to control the rear of the attacking regiments and prevent desertion.\n\nDuring the fascist regime of Benito Mussolini (1922–1943), the Carabinieri were one of the police forces entrusted with suppressing opposition in Italy. During the same period, while part of the Italian Africa Police (mainly in the late 1930s), they were involved in atrocities in colonial Italian East Africa during the Second Italo-Abyssinian War. During World War II they fought in their function as military police against the Allied forces, and against Yugoslav partisans as part of the Italian occupation force in Yugoslavia.\n\nAfter Mussolini's fall on 25 July 1943, he was arrested by the Carabinieri as he left the king's private residence in Rome and subsequently imprisoned on Campo Imperatore by Carabinieri forces. After the armistice between Italy and the Allies on 3 September 1943 and the country's split into the fascist Italian Social Republic in the north and the Kingdom of Italy in the south, the Carabinieri split into two groups. In southern Italy the Carabinieri Command for Liberated Italy was founded in Bari, mobilizing new units for the Italian war of liberation. These units were attached to the Italian Liberation Corps and the six Italian Combat Groups of the Italian Co-Belligerent Army, fighting with the Allied forces. In northern Italy the fascist regime organized the Guardia Nazionale Repubblicana (composed of Carabinieri, former colonial policemen, Guardia di Finanza and customs police), to employ it as a military police and rapid-deployment anti-guerilla force. GNR was later joined (but not taken over) by the Black Brigades which should have represented a new militant incarnation of the Fascist party.\n\nDue to the role the Carabinieri had played in the downfall of Mussolini, and since one of the few units which fought the German occupation of Rome were the Granatieri di Sardegna regiments and the II Carabinieri cadet battalion, the Germans did not view the Carabinieri as loyal to the fascist cause and ordered the disbanding of all Carabinieri units in Axis-controlled territory on 7 October 1943. As German forces subsequently began to arrest and deport members of the Carabinieri to Germany for forced labour, large numbers of Carabinieri joined the Italian resistance movement. After the war the Carabinieri counted at least 2,735 fallen and 6,500 wounded, out of approximately 14,000 who had joined the Resistance in northern and central Italy. In Yugoslavia the Carabinieri formed a battalion of the Italian partisan Garibaldi Division, which fought alongside the Yugoslav partisans against German and Croatian Ustaše Forces. The battalion lost over 80% of its members in combat and was awarded the Silver Medal of Military Valor to commemorate the fallen.\n\nOne notable act of heroism in this era came from Vice Brigadiere Salvo D'Acquisto, who was executed by the Germans in Palidoro (near Rome) during World War II. D'Acquisto exchanged his life for the lives of citizens due to be executed in retaliation for the killing of a German soldier; instead, he claimed responsibility and was executed for the offence.\n\nUntil 2000, the Carabinieri were part of the Italian Army. On 31 March 2000, they were separated to become the fourth branch of the Italian Armed Forces.\n\nIn recent years Carabinieri units have been dispatched on peacekeeping missions, including Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq. In 2003, 12 Carabinieri were killed in a suicide bombing on their base in Nasiriyah, near Basra in southern Iraq, in the largest Italian military loss of life in a single action since the Second World War.\n\nAt the Sea Island Conference of the G8 in 2004, Carabinieri were given a mandate to establish a Centre of Excellence for Stability Police Units to spearhead the development of training and doctrinal standards for civilian police units attached to international peacekeeping missions.\n\nThe State Forestry Corps was dissolved on 31 December 2016 and personnel with forestry police function were militarized and absorbed by the Carabinieri.\n\nThe corps is headed by the ', consisting of the \"Comandante Generale\" (a General), the ' ( a Lieutenant General) and the Chief of Staff, all located in Rome. The Chief of Staff directs, coordinates and supervises all activities of the force. It directly supervises the Directors of Administration, Health, Engineering, the motor pool and the Veterinary Commission. On the Deputy Chiefs of Staff depend the National Center for Recruitment and Selection, the Administration National Center and the Legislation Office.\n\nThe Carabinieri are organised on a territorial basis for law-enforcement missions. The territorial organization represents the core of the institution; it contains 80 percent of the force and is organized hierarchically in five inter-regional commands, 19 regional commands and 102 provincial commands, 504 Company Commands and approximately 5000 Station Commands (one or more for each Italian city). The territorial organization includes exceptionally a special force unit (100 military employees): Elliported Squadron \"Hunters of Calabria\", exclusively used against the kidnapping and predominantly Calabrian mafia.\n\nOutside the territorial organisation, the Specialist and Mobile Units Command \"Palidoro\" (, based in Rome) controls the Carabinieri Mobile Units Division, the Carabinieri Specialist Units Division and the ROS.\n\nThe Carabinieri Specialist Units Division is the Carabinieri formation, established in 2001, dedicated to the performance of specialist police activities and the support to Territorial Organization. The Division directs, controls, and coordinates its own units, which carry out tasks related to the protection of Italian artistic heritage, to the currency protection, to the protection of Italian embassies abroad, to the health protection, to the labour policing, to Bank of Italy needs, to the Carabinieri forensics police services. In addition, the Division provides Carabinieri air support.\n\nThe Carabinieri Mobile Units Division is located in Rome and has two brigades tasked with mass manoeuvres during emergencies, defending the nation and participating in military operations abroad. It supports public order and territorial control in urban areas, and contributes to the operations of civil authorities in terms of public safety. 1st Mobile Brigade, whose headquarter is located in Rome and includes six Regiments e four Battalions mainly employed in public order tasks. 2nd Mobile Brigade headquartered in Livorno includes the Gruppo di Intervento Speciale special forces group, the 1st Paratroopers Carabinieri Regiment \"Tuscania\", and the 7th \"Trentino-Alto Adige\" and 13th \"Friuli-Venezia Giulia\" regiments, which are mainly engaged in international missions.\n\nThe Gruppo di Intervento Speciale in one of the four Italian special forces.\n\nThe ROS (\"Raggruppamento Operativo Speciale\" or Special Operational Group) is an elite unit founded in 1990 to deal with organised crime (Mafia and others), subversive activities, terrorism and more complex types of crime. An anti-crime section is found in every city and district public prosecutor's office.\n\nSpecial Tasks Departments are outside the ordinary organisational framework and are used for special missions:\n\"Corazzieri\" (Cuirassiers) are an elite corps and honour guard of the President of the Italian Republic, located in the Quirinal Palace. They are distinguished by their uniforms and height (the minimum height for admission is ). They have almost no other everyday duties, although they may be seen patrolling occasionally. Other departments are in service to constitutional bodies such as the Presidency of the Republic, the Senate, Parliament, the Judiciary, the Prime Minister and the National Council of Economy and Labour. Carabinieri also perform military police and security duties for the Ministry of Defence, military high commands, the offices of the military judiciary and allied military organisations in Italy and abroad. They also have personnel attached to the Department of Public Security in various departments, as well as anti-Mafia and anti-drug investigative task forces. \"Carabinieri\" officers are charged with surveillance and security at Italian embassies and consulates abroad, performing the same services entrusted to the Marine Corps Embassy Security Group in United States diplomatic and consular offices.\n\nTogether with the Polizia di Stato and the Guardia di Finanza, the Carabinieri is also responsible for border control.\nThe specialized Comando unità per la tutela forestale, ambientale e agroalimentare has headquarter located in Rome and organized in 15 regional command and approximately 700 Station Commands on the territory. It counts 7,000 personnel involved in contrast of illicit agri-foodstuffs, environmental and biodiversity protection, contrast to poaching, contrast to all criminal organizations that, with their activity, affect the environment. In the Unit there are also 29 NOE (Nucleo Operativo Ecologico), nucleus highly specialized in complex investigations in environmental matters against organized crime.\n\nThe main battles in which the Carabinieri took part before World War I are:\n\n\nFor its contributions during the First World War, the Corps was awarded its first Gold Medal of Military Valor\n\nIn World War II, Carabinieri distinguished themselves in the following battles:\n\nFrom 1943 to 1945, the Carabinieri were accountable to the Control Commission of the Allied Military Government (AMGOT). Their reorganization and reform was organized by Colonel Arthur Young, a British police officer seconded as Director of Public Safety and Director of Security.\n\nThe Carabinieri were issued a distinctive uniform in black with silver braid around the collar and cuffs, edges trimmed in scarlet and epaulettes in silver. The mounted division had white fringes, and the infantry had light blue. Their headgear was a distinctive\nbicorne, popularly called the \"lucerna\" (in use only for historical uniform and ceremonies).\nThey still use a version of the historic uniform today for ceremonies.\n\nThe full set of different Carabinieri uniforms today is presented here (in Italian).\n\nCarabinieri MP Units wear a dark navy blue beret.\nThe State Color of the Carabinieri bears the following decorations:\n\nIn response to the many and diverse needs of the Carabinieri, the service provides for the use of various types of weapons that are divided into \"ordinary\" and \"special\" weapons and supplied to all staff as follows:\n\n\nUsed only by certain departments and under certain circumstances: \n\nUntil very recently the Italian police (including the \"Carabinieri\") operated only Italian-made vehicles, but that changed with the introduction of Land Rover Defenders and Subarus into service. Normal \"Carabinieri\" patrol vehicles are dark blue with a white roof, with a red stripe along the side. Carabinieri license plates begin with \"CC\" or previously with \"EI\" (formerly Esercito Italiano, Italian Army), and a Carabinieri car is traditionally called a \"Gazzella\" (gazelle). Small or medium-sized cars are used for ordinary patrol work, with larger and more powerful vehicles being used for emergency response, highway patrol, and special services. The vehicles of the \"Carabinieri\" military police and mobile units are painted in NATO camouflage scheme as done with the other Italian Armed Forces vehicles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1318008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318008", "title": "Causes of World War I", "text": "Causes of World War I\n\nThe causes of World War I remain controversial. World War I began in the Balkans in late July 1914 and ended in November 1918, leaving 17 million dead and 20 million wounded.\n\nScholars looking at the long-term seek to explain why two rival sets of powers – Germany and Austria-Hungary on the one hand, and Russia, France, and Great Britain on the other – had come into conflict by 1914. They look at such factors as political, territorial and economic conflicts, militarism, a complex web of alliances and alignments, imperialism, the growth of nationalism, and the power vacuum created by the decline of the Ottoman Empire. Other important long-term or structural factors that are often studied include unresolved territorial disputes, the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe, convoluted and fragmented governance, the arms races of the previous decades, and military planning.\n\nScholars doing short-term analysis focused on the summer of 1914 ask if the conflict could have been stopped, or whether it was out of control. The immediate causes lay in decisions made by statesmen and generals during the July Crisis of 1914. This crisis was triggered by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria by a Bosnian Serb who had been supported by a nationalist organization in Serbia. The crisis escalated as the conflict between Austria-Hungary and Serbia came to involve Russia, Germany, France, and ultimately Belgium and Great Britain. Other factors that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent (e.g., the German belief that Britain would remain neutral), fatalism that war was inevitable, and the speed of the crisis, which was exacerbated by delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications.\n\nThe crisis followed a series of diplomatic clashes among the Great Powers (Italy, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and Russia) over European and colonial issues in the decades before 1914 that had left tensions high. In turn, these public clashes can be traced to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867.\n\nConsensus on the origins of the war remains elusive since historians disagree on key factors, and place differing emphasis on a variety of factors. This is compounded by changing historical arguments over time, particularly the delayed availability of classified historical archives. The deepest distinction among historians is between those who focus on the actions of Germany and Austria-Hungary as key and those who focus on a wider group of actors. Secondary fault lines exist between those who believe that Germany deliberately planned a European war, those who believe that the war was ultimately unplanned but still caused principally by Germany and Austria-Hungary taking risks, and those who believe that either all or some of the other powers, namely Russia, France, Serbia and Great Britain, played a more significant role in causing the war than has been traditionally suggested.\n\nTo understand the long term origins of the war in 1914, it is essential to understand how the powers formed into two competing sets sharing common aims and enemies. These two sets became, by August 1914, Germany and Austria-Hungary on one side and Russia, France, Serbia and Great Britain on the other.\n\nIn 1887 German and Russian alignment was secured by means of a secret Reinsurance Treaty arranged by Otto von Bismarck. However, in 1890 the treaty was allowed to lapse in favor of the Dual Alliance (1879) between Germany and Austria-Hungary. This development was attributed to Count Leo von Caprivi, the Prussian general who replaced Bismarck as chancellor. It is claimed that the new chancellor recognized a personal inability to manage the European system as his predecessor had and so he was counseled by contemporary figures such as Friedrich von Holstein to follow a more logical approach as opposed to Bismarck's complex and even duplicitous strategy. Thus, the treaty with Austria-Hungary was concluded despite the Russian willingness to amend the Reinsurance Treaty and sacrifice a provision referred to as the \"very secret additions\" that concerned the Straits.\n\nVon Caprivi's decision was also driven by the belief that the Reinsurance Treaty was no longer needed to ensure Russian neutrality in case France attacked Germany and it would even preclude an offensive against France. Lacking a capacity for Bismarck's strategic ambiguity, the new chancellor pursued a policy that was oriented towards \"getting Russia to accept Berlin's promises on good faith and to encourage St. Petersburg to engage in a direct understanding with Vienna, without a written accord.\" By 1892, the Dual Alliance was expanded to include Italy. In response, Russia secured in the same year the Franco-Russian Alliance, a strong military relationship that was to last until 1917. This move was prompted by the Russian need for an ally since, during this period, it was experiencing a major famine and a rise in anti-government revolutionary activities. This alliance was gradually built through the years starting from the time Bismarck refused the sale of Russian bonds in Berlin, which drove Russia to the Paris capital market. This began the expansion of Russian and French financial ties, which eventually helped elevate the Franco-Russian entente to the diplomatic and military arenas.\n\nVon Caprivi's strategy appeared to work when, during the outbreak of the Bosnian crisis of 1908, it demanded that Russia step back and demobilize, which it did. When Germany asked Russia again in a later conflict, Russia refused, which finally helped precipitate the war.\n\nSome of the distant origins of World War I can be seen in the results and consequences of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870-1871 and the concurrent unification of Germany. Germany had won decisively and established a powerful Empire, while France fell into chaos and military decline for years. A legacy of animosity grew between France and Germany following the German annexation of Alsace-Lorraine. The annexation caused widespread resentment in France, giving rise to the desire for revenge, known as revanchism. French sentiments were based on a desire to avenge military and territorial losses and the displacement of France as the preeminent continental military power. Bismarck was wary of French desire for revenge; he achieved peace by isolating France and balancing the ambitions of Austria-Hungary and Russia in the Balkans. During his later years, he tried to placate the French by encouraging their overseas expansion. However, anti-German sentiment remained.\n\nFrance eventually recovered from its defeat, paid its war indemnity, and rebuilt its military strength again. But the French nation was smaller than Germany in terms of population and industry, and thus many French felt insecure next to a more powerful neighbor. By the 1890s the desire for revenge over Alsace-Lorraine no longer was a major factor for the leaders of France, but it remained a force in general public opinion. Jules Cambon, the French ambassador to Berlin (1907-1914), worked hard to secure a détente but French leaders decided Berlin was trying to weaken the Triple Entente and was not sincere in seeking peace. The French consensus was that war was inevitable.\n\nAfter Bismarck's removal in 1890, French efforts to isolate Germany became successful. With the formation of the Triple Entente, Germany began to feel encircled. The French foreign minister, Théophile Delcassé went to great pains to woo Russia and Great Britain. Key markers were the Franco-Russian Alliance of 1894, the 1904 Entente Cordiale with Great Britain and finally the Anglo-Russian Entente in 1907, which became the Triple Entente. This informal alignment with Britain and formal alliance with Russia against Germany and Austria eventually led Russia and Britain to enter World War I as France's allies.\n\nBritain abandoned its \"splendid isolation\" policy in the 1900s after having been isolated during the Boer War. Britain concluded agreements, limited to colonial affairs, with its two major colonial rivals: the Entente Cordiale with France in 1904 and the Anglo-Russian Entente of 1907. Some historians see Britain's alignment as principally a reaction to an assertive German foreign policy and the buildup of its navy from 1898 that led to the Anglo-German naval arms race.\nOther scholars, most notably Niall Ferguson, argue that Britain chose France and Russia over Germany because Germany was too weak an ally to provide an effective counterbalance to the other powers and could not provide Britain with the imperial security achieved by the entente agreements. In the words of British diplomat Arthur Nicolson, it was \"far more disadvantageous to us to have an unfriendly France and Russia than an unfriendly Germany\". Ferguson argues that the British government rejected German alliance overtures \"not because Germany began to pose a threat to Britain, but, on the contrary because they realized she did not pose a threat\". The impact of the Triple Entente was therefore twofold, to improve British relations with France and her ally Russia and to demote the importance to Britain of good relations with Germany. It was \"not that antagonism toward Germany caused its isolation, but rather that the new system itself channeled and intensified hostility towards the German Empire\".\n\nThe Triple Entente involving Britain, France and Russia is often compared to the Triple Alliance between Germany, Austria–Hungary and Italy, but historians caution against the comparison. The Entente, in contrast to the Triple Alliance or the Franco-Russian Alliance, was not an alliance of mutual defence, and Britain therefore felt free to make her own foreign policy decisions in 1914. As British Foreign Office official Eyre Crowe minuted: \"The fundamental fact of course is that the \"Entente\" is not an alliance. For purposes of ultimate emergencies it may be found to have no substance at all. For the \"Entente\" is nothing more than a frame of mind, a view of general policy which is shared by the governments of two countries, but which may be, or become, so vague as to lose all content.\"\n\nA series of diplomatic incidents between 1905 and 1914 heightened tensions between the Great Powers and reinforced the existing alignments, beginning with the First Moroccan Crisis.\n\nThe First Moroccan Crisis (also known as the Tangier Crisis) was an international dispute between March 1905 and May 1906 over the status of Morocco. The crisis worsened German relations with both France and the United Kingdom, and helped ensure the success of the new Anglo-French Entente Cordiale. In the words of historian Christopher Clark, \"The Anglo-French Entente was strengthened rather than weakened by the German challenge to France in Morocco\".\n\nIn 1909 Austria-Hungary announced its annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, dual provinces in the Balkan region of Europe formerly under the control of the Ottoman Empire. Though Bosnia and Herzegovina were still nominally under the sovereignty of the Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary had administered the provinces since the Congress of Berlin in 1878, when the great powers of Europe awarded it the right to occupy the two provinces, with the legal title to remain with Turkey. The announcement in October 1908 of Austria-Hungary's annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina upset the fragile balance of power in the Balkans, enraging Serbia and pan-Slavic nationalists throughout Europe. Though weakened Russia was forced to submit, to its humiliation, its foreign office still viewed Austria-Hungary's actions as overly aggressive and threatening. Russia's response was to encourage pro-Russian, anti-Austrian sentiment in Serbia and other Balkan provinces, provoking Austrian fears of Slavic expansionism in the region.\n\nImperial rivalries pushed France, Germany and Britain to compete for control of Morocco, leading to a short-lived war scare in 1911. In the end, France established a protectorate over Morocco that increased European tensions. The Agadir Crisis resulted from the deployment of a substantial force of French troops into the interior of Morocco in April 1911. Germany reacted by sending the gunboat SMS \"Panther\" to the Moroccan port of Agadir on 1 July 1911. The main result was deeper suspicion between London and Berlin, and closer military ties between London and Paris.\n\nIncreased fear and hostility drew Britain closer to France rather than Germany. British backing of France during the crisis reinforced the Entente between the two countries (and with Russia as well), increasing Anglo-German estrangement, deepening the divisions that would erupt in 1914. In terms of internal British jousting, the crisis was part of a five-year struggle inside the British cabinet between radical isolationists and the Liberal Party's imperialist interventionists. The interventionists sought to use the Triple Entente to contain German expansion. The radicals obtained an agreement for official cabinet approval of all initiatives that might lead to war. However, the interventionists were joined by the two leading Radicals, David Lloyd George and Winston Churchill. Lloyd George's famous \"Mansion House speech\" of 21 July 1911 angered the Germans and encouraged the French. By 1914 the interventionists and Radicals had agreed to share responsibility for decisions culminating in the declaration of war, and so the decision was almost unanimous.\n\nSignificantly for the events of August 1914, the crisis led British foreign secretary Edward Grey and France to make a secret naval agreement by which the Royal Navy would protect the northern coast of France from German attack, while France concentrated her fleet in the western Mediterranean and agreed to protect British interests there. France was thus able to guard her communications with her North African colonies, and Britain to concentrate more force in home waters to oppose the German High Seas Fleet. The cabinet was not informed of this agreement until August 1914. Meanwhile, the episode strengthened the hand of Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz, who was calling for a greatly increased navy and obtained it in 1912.\n\nIn the Italo-Turkish War or Turco-Italian War Italy defeated the Ottoman Empire in North Africa in 1911-12. Italy easily captured the important coastal cities but its army failed to advance far into the interior. Italy captured the Ottoman Tripolitania Vilayet (province), of which the most notable sub-provinces (sanjaks) were Fezzan, Cyrenaica, and Tripoli itself. These territories together formed what became known as Italian Libya. The main significance for the First World War was that this war made it clear that no Great Power appeared to wish to support the Ottoman Empire any longer and this paved the way for the Balkan Wars. Christopher Clark stated: \"Italy launched a war of conquest on an African province of the Ottoman Empire, triggering a chain of opportunistic assaults on Ottoman territories across the Balkans. The system of geographical balances that had enabled local conflicts to be contained was swept away.\" \n\nThe Balkan Wars were two conflicts that took place in the Balkan Peninsula in south-eastern Europe in 1912 and 1913. Four Balkan states defeated the Ottoman Empire in the first war; one of the four, Bulgaria, was defeated in the second war. The Ottoman Empire lost nearly all of its holdings in Europe. Austria-Hungary, although not a combatant, was weakened as a much-enlarged Serbia pushed for union of the South Slavic peoples.\n\nThe Balkan Wars in 1912–1913 increased international tension between the Russian Empire and Austria-Hungary. It also led to a strengthening of Serbia and a weakening of the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria, who might otherwise have kept Serbia under control, thus disrupting the balance of power in Europe in favor of Russia.\n\nRussia initially agreed to avoid territorial changes, but later in 1912 supported Serbia's demand for an Albanian port. The London Conference of 1912–13 agreed to create an independent Albania; however both Serbia and Montenegro refused to comply. After an Austrian, and then an international, naval demonstration in early 1912 and Russia's withdrawal of support, Serbia backed down. Montenegro was not as compliant and on May 2, the Austrian council of ministers met and decided to give Montenegro a last chance to comply and, if it would not, then to resort to military action. However, seeing the Austrian military preparations, the Montenegrins requested the ultimatum be delayed and complied.\n\nThe Serbian government, having failed to get Albania, now demanded that the other spoils of the First Balkan War be reapportioned, and Russia failed to pressure Serbia to back down. Serbia and Greece allied against Bulgaria, which responded with a preemptive strike against their forces, beginning the Second Balkan War. The Bulgarian army crumbled quickly when Turkey and Romania joined the war.\n\nThe Balkan Wars strained the German/Austro-Hungarian alliance. The attitude of the German government to Austrian requests of support against Serbia was initially both divided and inconsistent. After the German Imperial War Council of 8 December 1912, it was clear that Germany was not ready to support Austria-Hungary in a war against Serbia and her likely allies.\n\nIn addition, German diplomacy before, during, and after the Second Balkan War was pro-Greek and pro-Romanian and in opposition to Austria-Hungary's increasingly pro-Bulgarian views. The result was tremendous damage to Austro-German relations. Austrian foreign minister Leopold von Berchtold remarked to German ambassador Heinrich von Tschirschky in July 1913 that \"Austria-Hungary might as well belong 'to the other grouping' for all the good Berlin had been\".\n\nIn September 1913, it was learned that Serbia was moving into Albania and Russia was doing nothing to restrain it, while the Serbian government would not guarantee to respect Albania's territorial integrity and suggested there would be some frontier modifications. In October 1913, the council of ministers decided to send Serbia a warning followed by an ultimatum: that Germany and Italy be notified of some action and asked for support, and that spies be sent to report if there was an actual withdrawal. Serbia responded to the warning with defiance and the Ultimatum was dispatched on October 17 and received the following day. It demanded that Serbia evacuate Albanian territory within eight days. Serbia complied, and the Kaiser made a congratulatory visit to Vienna to try to fix some of the damage done earlier in the year.\n\nBy this time, Russia had mostly recovered from its defeat in the Russo-Japanese War, and the calculations of Germany and Austria were driven by a fear that Russia would eventually become too strong to be challenged. Their conclusion was that any war with Russia had to occur within the next few years in order to have any chance of success.\n\nThe original Franco-Russian alliance was formed to protect both France and Russia from a German attack. In the event of such an attack both states would mobilize in tandem, placing Germany under the threat of a two-front war. However, there were limits placed on the alliance so that it was essentially defensive in character.\n\nThroughout the 1890s and the 1900s the French and the Russians made clear the limits of the alliance did not extend to provocations caused by the others' adventurous foreign policy. For example, Russia warned France that the alliance would not operate if the French provoked the Germans in North Africa. Equally, the French insisted to the Russians that they should not use the alliance to provoke Austria-Hungary or Germany in the Balkans, and that France did not recognise in the Balkans a vital strategic interest for France or for Russia.\n\nIn the last 18 to 24 months before the outbreak of the war, this changed. At the end of 1911 and particularly during the Balkan wars themselves in 1912–13, the French view changed. France now accepted the importance of the Balkans to Russia. Moreover, France clearly stated that if, as a result of a conflict in the Balkans, war were to break out between Austria-Hungary and Serbia, France would stand by Russia. Thus the Franco-Russian alliance changed in character, and by a consequence of that Serbia became a security salient for Russia and France. As they bought into the future scenario of a war of Balkan inception, regardless of who started such a war, the alliance would respond nonetheless. It would view this conflict as a casus foederis: as a trigger for the alliance. Christopher Clark described this change as \"a very important development in the pre-war system which made the events of 1914 possible\".\n\nThis was a crisis caused by the appointment of a German officer, Liman von Sanders to command the Turkish First Army Corps guarding Constantinople, and the subsequent Russian objections.\nThe “Liman von Sanders Affair,” began on November 10, 1913, when the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Sazonov, instructed the Russian ambassador in Berlin, Sergei Sverbeev, to tell the Germans that the von Sanders mission, would be regarded by Russia as an “openly hostile act.” In addition to threatening Russia's foreign trade, half of which flowed through the Turkish straits, the mission raised the possibility of a German-led Turkish assault on Russia's Black Sea ports and imperilled Russian plans for expansion in eastern Anatolia.\n\nLiman's appointment brought a storm of protest from Russia, who suspected German designs on the Ottoman capital. A compromise arrangement was subsequently agreed whereby Liman was appointed to the rather less senior (and less influential) position of Inspector General in January 1914.\n\nAs a result of the crisis, Russia's weakness in military power prevailed. The Russians could not rely upon their financial means as a tool for foreign policy.\n\nHistorians caution that, taken together, the preceding crisis should not be seen as an argument that a European war was inevitable in 1914.\n\nSignificantly, the Anglo-German Naval Race was over by 1912. In April 1913, Britain and Germany signed an agreement over the African territories of the Portuguese empire which was expected to collapse imminently. Moreover, the Russians were threatening British interests in Persia and India to the extent that in 1914, there were signs that the British were cooling in their relations with Russia and that an understanding with Germany might be useful. The British were \"deeply annoyed by St Petersburg's failure to observe the terms of the agreement struck in 1907 and began to feel an arrangement of some kind with Germany might serve as a useful corrective.\"\n\nBritish Diplomat Arthur Nicolson wrote in May 1914, “Since I have been at the Foreign Office I have not seen such calm waters.”\n\n\nOn 28 June 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, were shot dead, by two gun shots in Sarajevo by Gavrilo Princip, one of a group of six assassins (five Serbs and one Bosniak) coordinated by Danilo Ilić, a Bosnian Serb and a member of the Black Hand secret society.\n\nThe assassination is significant because it was perceived by Austria-Hungary as an existential challenge to her and in her view provided a casus belli with Serbia. The Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph was aged 84, so the assassination of his heir, so soon before he was likely to hand over the crown, was seen as a direct challenge to Austrian polity. Many ministers in Austria, especially Berchtold, argue this act must be avenged. Moreover, the Archduke, who had been a decisive voice for peace in the previous years, had now been removed from the discussions. The assassination triggered the July Crisis, which turned a local conflict into a European, and then a worldwide, war.\n\nThe assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir apparent to the Austrian throne, sent deep shockwaves through Austrian elites, and the murder has been described as a \"9/11 effect, a terrorist event charged with historic meaning, transforming the political chemistry in Vienna.” It gave free rein to elements clamouring for war with Serbia, especially in the Army\n\nIt quickly emerged that three leading members of the assassination squad had spent long periods of time in Belgrade, had only recently crossed the border from Serbia, and were carrying weapons and bombs of Serbian manufacture. They were secretly sponsored by the Black Hand, whose objectives included the liberation of all Bosnian Slavs from Austrian rule, and masterminded by the Head of Serbian Military intelligence, Apis.\n\nTwo days after the assassination, Foreign Minister Berchtold and the Emperor agreed that the “policy of patience” with Serbia was at an end. Austria feared that if she displayed weakness, their neighbours to the South and East would be emboldened, whereas war with Serbia would put to an end the problems the dual monarchy had experienced with Serbia. Chief of Staff Franz Conrad von Hötzendorf stated of Serbia: ”If you have a poisonous adder at your heel, you stamp on its head, you don’t wait for the bite.” \n\nThere was also a feeling that the moral effects of military action would breathe new life into the exhausted structures of the Habsburg monarchy, restoring it to the vigour and virility of an imagined past, and that Serbia must be dealt with before it became too powerful to defeat militarily. The principal voices for peace in previous years included Franz Ferdinand himself. His removal not only provided the casus belli but removed one of the most prominent doves from policymaking.\n\nSince taking on Serbia involved the risk of war with Russia, Vienna sought the views of Berlin. The Germans provided their unconditional support for war with Serbia, the so-called \"Blank Cheque.” Buoyed up by German support the Austrians began drawing up an ultimatum, giving the Serbs forty-eight hours to respond to ten demands. The Austrians hoped that the ultimatum would be rejected in order to provide the pretext for war with a neighbour they considered to be impossibly turbulent.\n\nSamuel R. Williamson, Jr. has emphasized the role of Austria-Hungary in starting the war. Convinced Serbian nationalism and Russian Balkan ambitions were disintegrating the Empire, Austria-Hungary hoped for a limited war against Serbia and that strong German support would force Russia to keep out of the war and weaken its Balkan prestige.\n\nAt this stage in the crisis the possibility of determined Russian support for Serbia, and its attendant risks, was never properly weighed up. The Austrians remained fixated on Serbia but did not decide on their precise objectives other than war.\n\nNevertheless, having decided upon war with German support, Austria was slow to act publicly, and did not deliver the ultimatum until July 23, some three weeks after the assassinations on 28 June. Thus Austria lost the reflex sympathies attendant to the Sarajevo murders and gave the further impression to the Entente powers that Austria was merely using the assassinations as a pretext for aggression.\n\nOn July 6 Germany provided its unconditional support to its ally Austria-Hungary in its quarrel with Serbia – the so-called \"blank cheque”. In response to a request for support, Vienna was told the Kaiser's position was that, if Austria-Hungary \"recognised the necessity of taking military measures against Serbia he would deplore our not taking advantage of the present moment which is so favourable to us...we might in this case, as in all others, rely upon German support”\n\nThe thinking was as Austria-Hungary was Germany's only ally, if its prestige was not restored then its position in the Balkans might be irreparably damaged, encouraging further irredentism by Serbia and Romania. A quick war against Serbia would not only eliminate her, but also probably lead to further diplomatic gains vis a vis Bulgaria and Romania. A Serbian defeat would also be a defeat for Russia and reduce her influence in the Balkans.\n\nThe benefits were clear but there were risks, namely that Russia would intervene and this would lead to a continental war. However, this was thought even more unlikely since the Russians had not yet finished their French-funded rearmament programme scheduled for completion in 1917. Moreover, they did not believe that Russia, as an absolute monarchy, would support regicides, and more broadly “the mood across Europe was so anti-Serbian that even Russia would not intervene.” Personal factors also weighed heavily and the German Kaiser was close to the murdered Franz Ferdinand and was affected by his death, to the extent that German counsels of restraint vis a vis Serbia in 1913 changed to an aggressive stance.\n\nOn the other hand, the military thought that if Russia did intervene then St Petersburg clearly desired war and now would be a better time to fight, when Germany had a guaranteed ally in Austria-Hungary, Russia was not ready and Europe was sympathetic to them. On balance, at this point in the crisis, the Germans anticipated that their support would mean the war would be a localised affair between Austria-Hungary and Serbia. This would be particularly true if Austria moved quickly, \"while the other European powers were still disgusted over the assassinations and therefore likely to be sympathetic to any action Austria-Hungary took”.\n\nFrench President Raymond Poincaré arrived in St. Petersburg for a long-scheduled state visit on 20 July and departed on 23 July. The French and the Russians agreed their alliance extended to supporting Serbia against Austria, confirming the already established policy behind the Balkan inception scenario. As Christopher Clark notes \"Poincare had come to preach the gospel of firmness and his words had fallen on ready ears. Firmness in this context meant an intransigent opposition to any Austrian measure against Serbia. At no point do the sources suggest that Poincare or his Russian interlocutors gave any thought whatsoever to what measures Austria-Hungary might legitimately be entitled to take in the aftermath of the assassinations\".\n\nOn 21 July, the Russian Foreign Minister warned the German ambassador to Russia that \"Russia would not be able to tolerate Austria-Hungary's using threatening language to Serbia or taking military measures.\" The leaders in Berlin discounted this threat of war. German foreign minister Gottlieb von Jagow noted “there is certain to be some blustering in St. Petersburg.” German Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg told his assistant that Britain and France did not realize that Germany would go to war if Russia mobilized. He thought London saw a German \"bluff\" and was responding with a \"counterbluff.\" Political scientist James Fearon argues from this episode that the Germans believed Russia were expressing greater verbal support for Serbia than they would actually provide, in order to pressure Germany and Austria-Hungary to accept some Russian demands in negotiation. Meanwhile, Berlin was downplaying its actual strong support for Vienna so as to not appear the aggressor, for that would alienate German socialists.\n\nOn 23 July, Austria-Hungary, following their own enquiry into the assassinations, sends an ultimatum to Serbia, containing their demands, giving forty-eight hours to comply.\n\nOn 24–25 July the Russian Council of Ministers met, and in response to the crisis and despite the fact that she had no alliance with Serbia, agreed to a secret partial mobilisation of over one million men of the Russian Army and the Baltic and Black Sea Fleets. It is worth stressing, since this is a cause of some confusion in general narratives of the war, that this was done prior to the Serbian rejection of the ultimatum, the Austrian declaration of war on 28 July or any military measures taken by Germany. As a diplomatic move this had limited value since the Russians did not make this mobilisation public until 28 July.\n\nThe arguments used to support this move in the Council of Ministers were:\n\n\nIn addition Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Sazonov believed that war was inevitable and refused to acknowledge that Austria-Hungary had a right to counter measures in the face of Serbian irredentism. On the contrary, Sazonov had aligned himself with the irredentism, and expected the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian empire. Crucially, the French had provided their clear support for their Russian allies for a robust response in their recent state visit just days before. Also in the background was Russian anxiety of the future of the Turkish straits – \"where Russian control of the Balkans would place Saint Petersburg in a far better position to prevent unwanted intrusions on the Bosphorus” \n\nThe policy was intended to be a mobilisation against Austria-Hungary only. However, due to Russian incompetence, the Russians realised by 29 July that partial mobilisation was not militarily possible, and as it would interfere with general mobilisation, only full mobilisation could prevent the entire operation being botched. The Russians therefore moved to full mobilisation on 30 July.\n\nChristopher Clark stated \"It would be difficult to overstate the historical importance of the meetings of 24 and 25 July\" and \"In taking these steps, [Russian Foreign Minister] Sazonov and his colleagues escalated the crisis and greatly increased the likelihood of a general European war. For one thing, Russian pre-mobilization altered the political chemistry in Serbia, making it unthinkable that the Belgrade government, which had originally given serious consideration to accepting the ultimatum, would back down in the face of Austrian pressure. It heightened the domestic pressure on the Russian administration...it sounded alarm bells in Austria-Hungary. Most importantly of all, these measures drastically raised the pressure on Germany, which had so far abstained from military preparations and was still counting on the localisation of the Austro-Serbian conflict.\"\n\nSerbia initially considered accepting all the terms of the Austrian ultimatum before news from Russia of pre mobilisation measures stiffened their resolve.\n\nThe Serbs drafted their reply to the ultimatum in such a way as to give the impression of making significant concessions but, as Christopher Clark states \"In reality, then, this was a highly perfumed rejection on most points”. In response to the rejection of the ultimatum, Austria immediately broke off diplomatic relations on 25 July and declared war on 28 July.\n\nOn July 29, 1914, the Tsar ordered full mobilization, then changed his mind after receiving a telegram from Kaiser Wilhelm. Partial mobilization was ordered instead. The next day, the Tsar's foreign minister, Sergey Sazonov once more persuaded Nicholas of the need for general mobilization, and the order was issued that day, July 30\n\nChristopher Clark states: \"The Russian general mobilisation was one of the most momentous decisions of the July crisis. This was the first of the general mobilisations. It came at the moment when the German government had not yet even declared the State of Impending War\"\n\nWhy did Russia do this?\n\n\nOn 28 July, Germany learned through its spy network that Russia had implemented its \"Period Preparatory to War\". The Germans assumed that Russia had, after all, decided upon war and that her mobilisation put Germany in danger. This was doubly so because German war plans, the so-called Schlieffen Plan, relied upon Germany to mobilise speedily enough to defeat France first (by attacking largely through neutral Belgium) before turning to defeat the slower-moving Russians.\n\nChristopher Clarke states: \"German efforts at mediation – which suggested that Austria should “Halt in Belgrade” and use the occupation of the Serbian capital to ensure its terms were met – were rendered futile by the speed of Russian preparations, which threatened to force the Germans to take counter–measures before mediation could begin to take effect\" \n\nThus, in response to Russian mobilisation, Germany ordered the state of Imminent Danger of War (SIDW) on 31 July, and when the Russian government refused to rescind its mobilisation order, Germany mobilised and declared war on Russia on 1 August. Given the Franco-Russian alliance, countermeasures by France were, correctly, assumed to be inevitable and Germany therefore declared war on France on 3 August 1914.\n\nFollowing the German invasion of neutral Belgium, Britain issued an ultimatum to Germany on 2 August that she must withdraw or face war. The Germans did not comply and Britain declared war on Germany on 4 August 1914.\n\nBritain's reasons for declaring war were complex. The ostensible reason given was that Britain was required to safeguard Belgium's neutrality under the Treaty of London 1839. The German invasion of Belgium was, therefore, the \"casus belli\" and, importantly, legitimized and galvanized popular support for the war.\n\nStrategic risk posed by German control of the Belgian and ultimately French coast was considered unacceptable. German guarantees of post-war behavior were cast into doubt by her blasé treatment of Belgian neutrality. However, the Treaty of London of 1839 had not committed Britain on her own to safeguard Belgium's neutrality. Moreover, naval war planning demonstrated that Britain herself would have violated Belgian neutrality by blockading her ports (to prevent imported goods passing to Germany) in the event of war with Germany.\n\nRather Britain's relationship with her Entente partners, both France and Russia, were equally significant factors. Edward Grey argued that the secret naval agreements with France (although they had not been approved by the Cabinet) created a moral obligation vis a vis Britain and France.\n\nWhat is more, in the event that Britain abandoned its Entente friends, it was feared that if Germany won the war, or the Entente won without British support, then, either way, Britain would be left without any friends. This would have left both Britain and her Empire vulnerable to attack.\n\nBritish Foreign office mandarin Eyre Crowe stated:\n\n\"Should the war come, and England stand aside, one of two things must happen. (a) Either Germany and Austria win, crush France and humiliate Russia. What will be the position of a friendless England? (b) Or France and Russia win. What would be their attitude towards England? What about India and the Mediterranean?\" \n\nDomestically, the Liberal Cabinet was split and in the event that war was not declared the Government would fall as Prime Minister Asquith, Edward Grey and Winston Churchill made it clear they would resign. In that event, the existing Liberal Cabinet would lose their jobs. Since it was likely the pro-war Conservatives would be elected to power this would lead to a slightly belated British entry into the war in any event, so wavering Cabinet ministers were also likely motivated by the desire to avoid senselessly splitting their party and sacrificing their jobs.\n\nLeft-wing parties, especially the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), made large gains in the 1912 German election. German government at the time was still dominated by the Prussian Junkers who feared the rise of these left-wing parties. Fritz Fischer famously argued that they deliberately sought an external war to distract the population and whip up patriotic support for the government. Indeed, one German military leader Moritz von Lynker, the chief of the military cabinet, favored war in 1909 because it was \"desirable in order to escape from difficulties at home and abroad.\" Conservative Party leader Ernst von Heydebrand und der Lasa suggested that \"a war would strengthen patriarchal order\".\n\nOther authors argue that German conservatives were ambivalent about a war, worrying that losing a war would have disastrous consequences, and even a successful war might alienate the population if it were lengthy or difficult. Scenes of mass \"war euphoria\" were often doctored for propaganda purposes, and even those scenes which were genuine would not be reflective of the general population; many German people at the time complained of a need to conform to the euphoria around them, which allowed later Nazi propagandists to \"foster an image of national fulfillment later destroyed by wartime betrayal and subversion culminating in the alleged \"Dolchstoss\" (stab in the back) of the army by socialists\".\n\nThe argument that Austro-Hungary was a moribund political entity, whose disappearance was only a matter of time, was deployed by hostile contemporaries to suggest that the empire's efforts to defend its integrity during the last years before the war were in some sense illegitimate.\n\nClark states: \"Evaluating the prospects of the Austo-Hungarian empire on the eve of the first world war confronts us in an acute way with the problem of temporal perspective...The collapse of the empire amid war and defeat in 1918 impressed itself upon the retrospective view of the Habsburg lands, overshadowing the scene with auguries of imminent and ineluctable decline.\"\n\nIt is true that in Austro-Hungary, the political scene of the last decades before the war were increasingly dominated by the struggle for national rights among the empire's eleven official nationalities – German, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, Slovenes, Croats, Serbs, Romanians, Ruthenians, Poles and Italians. Yet before 1914, radical nationalists seeking full separation from the empire were still in a small minority and the roots of Austro-Hungary's political turbulence went less deep than appearances suggested.\n\nIn fact, during the pre-war decade the Habsburg lands passed through a phase of strong economic growth with a corresponding rise in general prosperity. Most inhabitants of the empire associated the Habsburg state with the benefits of orderly government, public education, welfare, sanitation, the rule of law, and the maintenance of a sophisticated infrastructure.\n\nChristopher Clark states: \"Prosperous and relatively well administered, the empire, like its elderly sovereign, exhibited a curious stability amid turmoil. Crises came and went without appearing to threaten the existence of the system as such. The situation was always, as the Viennese journalist Karl Kraus quipped, ‘desperate but not serious’.\"\n\nThe principal drivers of Serbian policy were to consolidate the Russian-backed expansion of Serbia during the Balkan wars of 1912-13 and achieve dreams of a Greater Serbia, which included “unification” of lands with large ethnic Serb populations inside the Austro-Hungarian Empire, including Bosnia \n\nOverlaying this was a culture of extreme nationalism, and a cult of assassination, derived from the slaying of the Ottoman Sultan as the heroic epilogue to the otherwise disastrous Battle of Kosovo on 28 June 1389. Clark states: “The Greater Serbian vision was not just a question of government policy, however, or even of propaganda. It was woven deeply into the culture and identity of the Serbs”.\n\nSerbian policy was complicated by the fact that the main actors in 1914 were both the official Serb government led by Nikola Pašić and the “Black Hand” terrorists led by the Head of Serb Military Intelligence, known as Apis. The Black Hand believed that a Greater Serbia would be achieved by provoking a war with Austro-Hungary through an act of terror which, with Russian backing, would be won.\n\nThe official government position was to focus on consolidating the gains made during the Balkan war, and avoid any further conflict, since recent wars had somewhat exhausted the Serb state. Nevertheless, the official policy was muted by the political necessity of simultaneously and clandestinely supporting dreams of a Greater Serb state in the long-term. The Serb government found it impossible to put and end to the machinations of the Black Hand for fear it would itself be overthrown. Clark states: “Serbian authorities were partly unwilling and partly unable to suppress the irredentist activity that had given rise to the assassinations in the first place” \n\nRussia, for its part, tended to support Serbian as a fellow Slav state and considered Serbia her “client”. Russia also encouraged Serbia to focus its irredentism against Austro-Hungary because it would discourage conflict between Serbia and Bulgaria (another prospective Russian ally) in Macedonia.\n\nImperial rivalry, and the consequences of the search for imperial security or for imperial expansion, had important consequences for the origins of the First World War.\n\nImperial rivalries between France, Great Britain, Russia and Germany played an important part in the creation of the Triple Entente and the relative isolation of Germany. Imperial opportunism, in the form of the Italian attack on Ottoman Libyan provinces, also encouraged the Balkan wars of 1912-13, which changed the balance of power in the Balkans to the detriment of Austro-Hungary.\n\nSome historians, such as Margaret MacMillan, believe that Germany created its own diplomatic isolation in Europe in part through an aggressive and pointless imperial policy, known as Weltpolitik. Others, such as Clark, believe that German isolation was the unintended consequence of a détente between Great Britain, France and Russia. This détente was driven by Britain's desire for imperial security in relation to France in North Africa and in relation to Russia in Persia and India.\n\nEither way, this isolation is important for the causes of WW1 because it left Germany few options but to ally herself more strongly with Austro-Hungary, leading ultimately to unconditional support for Austria's punitive war on Serbia during the July crisis of 1914.\n\nGermany's Chancellor in the 1870s and 1880s Otto von Bismarck disliked the idea of an overseas empire. Rather Bismarck supported French colonization in Africa because it diverted government attention and resources away from continental Europe and revanchism post 1870. Germany's \"New Course\" in foreign affairs, termed \"Weltpolitik\" (\"world policy”) was adopted in the 1890s after Bismarck's dismissal.\n\nThe aim of Weltpolitik was ostensibly to transform Germany into a global power through assertive diplomacy, the acquisition of overseas colonies, and the development of a large navy.\n\nSome historians, notably MacMillan and Hew Strachan, believe that a consequence of the policy of Weltpolitik and the associated assertiveness was to isolate Germany.\n\nWeltpolitik, particularly as expressed in Germany's objections to France's growing influence in Morocco in 1904 and 1907, also helped cement the Triple Entente. The Anglo-German Naval race also isolated Germany by reinforcing Britain's preference for agreements with Germany's continental rivals, France and Russia.\n\nHistorians, including Ferguson and Clark, believe that Germany's isolation was the unintended consequences of the need for Britain to defend her Empire against threats from France and Russia. They also downplay the impact of Weltpolitik and the Anglo-German naval race, which ended in 1911.\n\nBritain and France signed a series of agreements in 1904,which became known as the Entente Cordiale. The most important feature of the agreement was that it granted freedom of action to the UK in Egypt and to France in Morocco. \nEqually, the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907 is the common name used for the Convention between the United Kingdom and Russia relating to Persia, Afghanistan, and Tibet. The convention brought shaky British–Russian relations to the forefront by solidifying boundaries that identified respective control in Persia, Afghanistan, and Tibet.\n\nThe alignment between Great Britain, France and Russia became known as the Triple Entente. Therefore, the Triple Entente was not conceived as a counterweight to the Triple Alliance, but rather as a formula to secure imperial security between these three powers. The impact of the Triple Entente was therefore twofold, to improve British relations with France and her ally Russia and to demote the importance to Britain of good relations with Germany. Clark states it was \"not that antagonism toward Germany caused its isolation, but rather that the new system itself channeled and intensified hostility towards the German Empire\".\n\nThe Italo-Turkish War of 1911-12 was fought between the Ottoman Empire and the Kingdom of Italy in North Africa. The main significance for the First World War was that this war made it clear that no Great Power appeared to wish to support the Ottoman Empire any longer and this paved the way for the Balkan Wars.\n\nThe status of Morocco had been guaranteed by international agreement, and when France attempted to greatly expand its influence there without the assent of all the other signatories Germany opposed it prompting the Moroccan Crises, the Tangier Crisis of 1905 and the Agadir Crisis of 1911. The intent of German policy was to drive a wedge between the British and French, but in both cases produced the opposite effect and Germany was isolated diplomatically, most notably lacking the support of Italy despite Italian membership in the Triple Alliance. The French protectorate over Morocco was established officially in 1912.\n\nIn 1914, however, the African scene was peaceful. The continent was almost fully divided up by the imperial powers (with only Liberia and Ethiopia still independent). There were no major disputes there pitting any two European powers against each other.\n\nMarxists typically attributed the start of the war to imperialism. \"Imperialism,\" argued Lenin, \"is the monopoly stage of capitalism.\" He thought the monopoly capitalists went to war to control markets and raw materials.\n\nSocial Darwinism was a theory of human evolution loosely based on Darwinism that influenced most European intellectuals and strategic thinkers in the 1870-1914 era. These theories emphasized that struggle between nations and \"races\" was natural and that only the fittest nation deserved to survive. It gave an impetus to German assertiveness as a world economic and military power, aimed at competing with France and Britain for world power. German colonial rule in Africa 1884-1914 was an expression of nationalism and moral superiority that was justified by constructing an image of the natives as \"Other\". This approach highlighted racist views of mankind. German colonization was characterized by the use of repressive violence in the name of ‘culture’ and ‘civilization’. Germany's cultural-missionary project boasted that its colonial programs were humanitarian and educational endeavors. Furthermore, the wide acceptance among intellectuals of social Darwinism justified Germany's right to acquire colonial territories as a matter of the ‘survival of the fittest’, according to historian Michael Schubert.\n\nThe model suggested an explanation of why some ethnic groups (called \"races\" at the time) had been so antagonistic for so long, such as Germans and Slavs. They were natural rivals, destined to clash. Senior German generals such as Helmuth von Moltke talked in apocalyptic terms about the need for Germans to fight for their existence as a people and culture. MacMillan states: \"Reflecting the Social Darwinist theories of the era, many Germans saw Slavs, especially Russia, as the natural opponent of the Teutonic races\". Social Darwinism extended to Austria, where Conrad, Chief of the Austro-Hungarian General Staff declared: \"A people that lays down its weapons seals its fate.\" In July 1914 the Austrian press described Serbia and the South Slavs in terns which owed much to Social Darwinism.\n\nWar was seen as natural and a viable or even useful instrument of policy. \"War was compared to a tonic for a sick patient or a life-saving operation to cut out diseased flesh\". Since war was natural for some leaders it was simply a question of timing, and it would be therefore better to have a war when the circumstances were most precipitous. “I consider a war inevitable\", declared Moltke in 1912, \"The sooner the better\".\n\nNationalism made war a competition between peoples, nations or races rather than kings and elites. Social Darwinism carried a sense of inevitability to conflict and downplayed the use of diplomacy or international agreements to end warfare. It tended to glorify warfare, taking the initiative and the warrior male role.\n\nSocial Darwinism played an important role across Europe, but J. Leslie has argued that it played a critical and immediate role in the strategic thinking of some important, hawkish members of the Austro-Hungarian government. Social Darwinism therefore normalised war as an instrument of policy and justified its use.\n\nGeneral narratives of the war tend to emphasis the importance of Alliances in binding the major powers to act in the event of a crisis such as the July crisis. Historians such as Margaret MacMillan warn against the argument that alliances forced the great powers to act as they did during the July crisis. MacMillan states: \"What we tend to think of as fixed alliances before the First World War were nothing of the sort. They were much more loose, much more porous, much more capable of change.\"\n\nThe most important alliances in Europe required participants to agree to collective defence if attacked. Some of these represented formal alliances while the Triple Entente represented only a frame of mind. These included:\n\n\nThere are three notable exceptions which demonstrate that alliances did not in themselves force the great powers to act:\n\n\nBy the 1870s or 1880s all the major powers were preparing for a large-scale war, although none expected one. Britain focused on building up its Royal Navy, already stronger than the next two navies combined. Germany, France, Austria, Italy and Russia, and some smaller countries, set up conscription systems whereby young men would serve from 1 to three years in the army, then spend the next 20 years or so in the reserves with annual summer training. Men from higher social statuses became officers. Each country devised a mobilisation system whereby the reserves could be called up quickly and sent to key points by rail. Every year the plans were updated and expanded in terms of complexity. Each country stockpiled arms and supplies for an army that ran into the millions. Germany in 1874 had a regular professional army of 420,000 with an additional 1.3 million reserves. By 1897 the regular army was 545,000 strong and the reserves 3.4 million. The French in 1897 had 3.4 million reservists, Austria 2.6 million, and Russia 4.0 million. The various national war plans had been perfected by 1914, albeit with Russia and Austria trailing in effectiveness. Recent wars (since 1865) had typically been short—a matter of months. All the war plans called for a decisive opening and assumed victory would come after a short war; no one planned for or was ready for the food and munitions needs of a long stalemate as actually happened in 1914–18.\n\nAs David Stevenson has put it, \"A self-reinforcing cycle of heightened military preparedness ... was an essential element in the conjuncture that led to disaster ... The armaments race ... was a necessary precondition for the outbreak of hostilities.\" David Herrmann goes further, arguing that the fear that \"windows of opportunity for victorious wars\" were closing, \"the arms race did precipitate the First World War.\" If Archduke Franz Ferdinand had been assassinated in 1904 or even in 1911, Herrmann speculates, there might have been no war. It was \"... the armaments race ... and the speculation about imminent or preventive wars\" that made his death in 1914 the trigger for war.\n\nOne of the aims of the First Hague Conference of 1899, held at the suggestion of Tsar Nicholas II, was to discuss disarmament. The Second Hague Conference was held in 1907. All the signatories except for Germany supported disarmament. Germany also did not want to agree to binding arbitration and mediation. The Kaiser was concerned that the United States would propose disarmament measures, which he opposed. All parties tried to revise international law to their own advantage.\n\nHistorians have debated the role of the German naval build-up as the principal cause of deteriorating Anglo-German relations. In any case Germany never came close to catching up with Britain.\n\nSupported by Wilhelm II's enthusiasm for an expanded German navy, Grand Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz championed four Fleet Acts from 1898 to 1912, and, from 1902 to 1910, the Royal Navy embarked on its own massive expansion to keep ahead of the Germans. This competition came to focus on the revolutionary new ships based on the \"Dreadnought\", which was launched in 1906, and which gave Britain a battleship that far outclassed any other in Europe.\n\nThe overwhelming British response proved to Germany that its efforts were unlikely to equal the Royal Navy. In 1900, the British had a 3.7:1 tonnage advantage over Germany; in 1910 the ratio was 2.3:1 and in 1914, 2.1:1. Ferguson argues that, \"So decisive was the British victory in the naval arms race that it is hard to regard it as in any meaningful sense a cause of the First World War.\" This ignores the fact that the \"Kaiserliche Marine\" had narrowed the gap by nearly half, and that the Royal Navy had long intended to be stronger than any two potential opponents; the United States Navy was in a period of growth, making the German gains very ominous.\n\nIn Britain in 1913, there was intense internal debate about new ships due to the growing influence of John Fisher's ideas and increasing financial constraints. In early-mid-1914 Germany adopted a policy of building submarines instead of new dreadnoughts and destroyers, effectively abandoning the race, but kept this new policy secret to delay other powers following suit.\n\nThe Germans abandoned the naval race before the war broke out. The extent to which the naval race was one of the chief factors in Britain's decision to join the Triple Entente remains a key controversy. Historians such as Christopher Clark believe it was not significant, with Margaret Moran taking the opposite view.\n\nThe main Russian goals included strengthening its role as the protector of Eastern Christians in the Balkans (such as the Serbians). Although Russia enjoyed a booming economy, growing population, and large armed forces, its strategic position was threatened by an expanding Turkish military trained by German experts using the latest technology. The start of the war renewed attention of old goals: expelling the Turks from Constantinople, extending Russian dominion into eastern Anatolia and Persian Azerbaijan, and annexing Galicia. These conquests would assure Russian predominance in the Black Sea and access to the Mediterranean.\n\nTraditional narratives of the war suggested that when the war began both sides believed that the war would end quickly. Rhetorically speaking there was an expectation that the war would be “Over by Christmas” 1914. This is important for the origins of the conflict since it suggests that, given the expectation was that war would be short, the statesmen did not tend to take gravity of military action as seriously as they might have done.\n\nHowever, modern historiography suggests a more nuanced approach. There is ample evidence to suggest that statesmen and military leaders thought the war would be lengthy, terrible and have profound political consequences.\n\nWhile it is true all military leaders planned for a swift victory, many military and civilian leaders recognized that the war may be long and highly destructive. The principal German and French military leaders, including Moltke and Ludendorff and his French counterpart Joseph Joffre, expected a long war. The British Secretary of State for War Lord Kitchener expected a long war: \"three years\" or longer, he told an amazed colleague.\n\nMoltke hoped that a European war, if it broke out, would be resolved swiftly, but he also conceded that it might drag on for years, wreaking immeasurable ruin. Asquith wrote of the approach of ‘Armageddon’ and French and Russian generals spoke of a ‘war of extermination’ and the ‘end of civilization’. Foreign Secretary Grey famously stated just hours before Britain declared war: \"The lamps are going out all over Europe, we shall not see them lit again in our life-time”.\n\nNevertheless, Clark concludes that \"In the minds of many statesmen, the hope for a short war and the fear of a long one seemed to have cancelled each other out, holding at bay a fuller appreciation of the risks.\"\n\nMilitary commanders of the time, including Moltke, Joffre and Conrad, held that seizing the offensive was extremely important. This theory encouraged all belligerents to devise war plans to strike first to gain the advantage. These war plans all included complex plans for mobilisation of the armed forces, either as a prelude to war or as a deterrent. In the case of the continental Great Powers the mobilisation plans included arming and transporting millions of men and their equipment, typically by rail and to strict schedules- hence the metaphor \"War by Timetable\".\n\nThese mobilisation plans shortened the window for diplomacy as military planners wanted to begin mobilization as quickly as possible to avoid being caught on the defensive. They also put pressure on policymakers to begin their own mobilisation once it was discovered that other nations had begun to mobilise.\n\nSome historians assert that mobilization schedules were so rigid that once it was begun, they could not be cancelled without massive disruption of the country and military disorganization and so diplomatic overtures conducted after the mobilizations had begun were ignored.\n\nFor example, Russia ordered partial mobilisation on 25 July. The policy was intended to be a mobilisation against Austria-Hungary only. However, due to a lack of pre-war planning for this type of partial mobilisation, the Russians realised by 29 July that partial mobilisation was not militarily possible, and as it would interfere with a general mobilisation, only full mobilisation could prevent the entire operation being botched. The Russians were therefore faced with only two options, to cancel mobilisation during a crisis or to move to full mobilisation, which they did on 30 July. This full mobilisation meant mobilising along both the Russian border with Austro-Hungary and the border with Germany.\n\nFor their part the German war plans, the so-called Schlieffen plan, assumed a two-front war against France and Russia. They were predicated on massing the bulk of the German army against France, and taking the offensive in the West, while a holding force held East Prussia. The plans were based on the assumption that France would mobilise significantly quicker than Russia. Hence German forces could be deployed in the West to defeat France before turning to face the slow-moving Russians in the East.\n\nOn 28 July, Germany learned through its spy network that Russia had implemented partial mobilisation and its \"Period Preparatory to War\". The Germans assumed that Russia had, after all, decided upon war and that her mobilisation put Germany in danger. This was doubly so because German war plans, the so-called Schlieffen Plan, relied upon Germany to mobilise speedily enough to defeat France first (by attacking largely through neutral Belgium) before turning to defeat the slower-moving Russians.\n\nChristopher Clarke states: \"German efforts at mediation – which suggested that Austria should “Halt in Belgrade” and use the occupation of the Serbian capital to ensure its terms were met – were rendered futile by the speed of Russian preparations, which threatened to force the Germans to take counter–measures before mediation could begin to take effect\". . Furthermore, Clarke states: \"The Germans declared war on Russia before the Russians declared war on Germany. But by the time that happened, the Russian government had been moving troops and equipment to the German front for a week. The Russians were the first great power to issue an order of general mobilisation and the first Russo-German clash took place on German, not on Russian soil, following the Russian invasion of East Prussia. That doesn’t mean that the Russians should be ‘blamed’ for the outbreak of war. Rather it alerts us to the complexity of the events that brought war about and the limitations of any thesis that focuses on the culpability of one actor.\"\n\nDuring the period immediately following the end of hostilities, Anglo-American historians argued that Germany was solely responsible for the start of the war. However, academic work in the English-speaking world in the later 1920s and 1930s blamed participants more equally.\n\nHistorian Fritz Fischer unleashed an intense worldwide debate in the 1960s on Germany's long-term goals. American historian Paul Schroeder agrees with the critics that Fisher exaggerated and misinterpreted many points. However, Schroeder endorses Fisher's basic conclusion:\n\nHowever, Schroeder argues, all that was not the main cause of the war in 1914--Indeed, the search for a single main cause is not a helpful approach to history. Instead, there are multiple causes any one or two of which could have launched the war. He argues, \"The fact that so many plausible explanations for the outbreak of the war have been advanced over the years indicates on the one hand that it was massively overdetermined, and on the other that no effort to analyze the causal factors involved can ever fully succeed.\"\n\nDebates over which country \"started\" the war, and who bears the blame, continues to this day.\nAccording to Annika Mombauer a new consensus among scholars had emerged by the 1980s, mainly as a result of Fischer's intervention:\nRegarding historians inside Germany, she adds, \"There was 'a far-reaching consensus about the special responsibility of the German Reich' in the writings of leading historians, though they differed in how they weighted Germany's role.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2728491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2728491", "title": "Certified Commercial Investment Member", "text": "Certified Commercial Investment Member\n\nA Certified Commercial Investment Member (CCIM) is a recognized expert in the disciplines of commercial and investment real estate. The designation is awarded by CCIM Institute. A CCIM is a resource to the commercial real estate owner, investor, and user, and is among a corps of over 9,500 professionals around the globe who hold the CCIM designation. CCIM designees live and work in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and more than 35 other nations. International membership includes more than 1,000 professionals.\nCCIMs must be proficient in the areas of investment analysis, market analysis, user decision analysis and financial analysis for commercial real estate. In 2007, CCIM Institute launched the Robert L. Ward Center for Real Estate Studies, which offers concentrated courses on specific topics. CCIMs have access to a suite of online technology tools through the Site To Do Business, and they can post properties for sale or lease through the online CCIMNet commercial real estate exchange.\n\nOf the more than 150,000 commercial real estate professionals in the United States, only an estimated 6 percent hold the CCIM designation.\n\nCCIM members are responsible for an approximate US$400 billion annually of real estate transactions globally. CCIM Institute is a commercial affiliate of the National Association of Realtors. CCIM Institute is headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nTo earn the CCIM designation, one must meet the following requirements:\n\n magazine, the CCIM Institute's flagship publication, features articles about industry trends. Authors for the bi-monthly magazine include CCIM members, industry professionals, and CCIM Institute staff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24481915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24481915", "title": "Chhatradhar Mahato", "text": "Chhatradhar Mahato\n\nChhatradhar Mahato () (born 1964) is an Indian political activist from Lalgarh, West Bengal. He is the convener of the \"Police Santrash Birodhi Janasadharaner Committee\" (People's Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCAPA)), and a prominent tribal leader, he is also a tribal of kudmi caste an Scheduled Tribe member by descent. He gained prominence following the Salboni blast in November 2008.\n\nChhatradhar Mahato was born at a tiny hamlet of Amlia in Lalgarh. He is the eldest of three brothers. After his Higher Secondary examination from Lalgarh Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith, he joined Midnapore Day College where he became an active member of the Chhatra Parishad, student wing of the Congress, inspired by Mamata Banerjee. He did not complete his college education.\n\nAfter the blast organized by the Maoists to blow up the convoy of the West Bengal Chief Minister, Chhatradhar Mahato came into prominence by instigating a movement against the alleged police atrocities at Lalgarh where the local administration was abolished and he, under the aegis of the Maoists, ruled it for nine months. He also protested against the central government's plans to deploy special forces against the Maoists.\n\nHe was arrested after giving an interview to the police posing as journalists on 26 September 2009. This incident was protested by the journalists and intellectuals. Chhatradhar Mahato, convener of the Police Santrash Birodhi Janasadharaner Committee (PSBJC) was accused to have a life insurance cover of Rs.1 crore. This was revealed during police interrogation following his arrest from the Lalgarh area on September 26. It was revealed later that the 1 crore rupee (10 million rupee) insurance story was false.\n\nIn September 2012 Calcutta High Court granted Chhatradhar political prisoner status along with 8 other activist. This ruling caused a major uproar in India.\n\nMembers of People's Committee against Police Atrocities, stopped New Delhi bound, Bhubaneshwer Rajdhani Express in Midnapore to secure the release of Chhatradhar Mahato\n\nCourt has convicted Mahato under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with other three PCPA member Sukhshanti Baske, Sambhu Soren and Sagun Murmu and sentenced life imprisonment on 12 May 2015.\n"}
{"id": "23908910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23908910", "title": "Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program", "text": "Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program\n\nThe Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program, more commonly known as CARP, is an agrarian reform law of the Philippines whose legal basis is the Republic Act No. 6657, otherwise known as the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law (CARL). It is the redistribution of private and public agricultural lands to help the beneficiaries survive as small independent farmers, regardless of the “tenurial” arrangement. Its goals are to provide landowners equality in terms of income and opportunities, empower land owner beneficiaries to have an equitable land ownership, enhance the agricultural production and productivity, provide employment to more agricultural workers, and put an end to conflicts regarding land ownership.\n\nThe agrarian reform is part of the long history of attempts of land reform in the Philippines. The law was outlined by former President Corazon C. Aquino through Presidential Proclamation 131 and Executive Order 229 on June 22, 1987, and it was enacted by the 8th Congress of the Philippines and signed by Aquino on June 10, 1988. In 1998, which was the year that it was scheduled to be completed, the Congress enacted Republic Act No. 8532 to allocate additional funds for the program and extending the automatic appropriation of ill-gotten wealth recovered by the Presidential Commission on Good Governance (PCGG) for CARP until the year 2008.\n\nAn amendatory law, CARPER or the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program Extension with Reforms or the Republic Act. 9700 was passed. It extended the deadline of distributing agricultural lands to the farmers for an additional five years. This law also amends other provisions and regulations formerly stated in the CARP. It was signed into law on August 7, 2009 and was set to be accomplished by the year 2014.\n\nThe implementation of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program relies heavily on the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR). As the lead implementing agency, the DAR has the responsibility in carrying out the principal aspects of the program, which are Land Tenure Improvement (LTI), Program Beneficiary Development (PBD), and the Agrarian Justice Delivery (AJD).\n\nThe Land Tenure Improvement is highly recognized as the most integral aspect of the program. This component seeks to secure the tenurial status of the farmers and farmworkers. The DAR implements this component through Land Acquisition and Distribution (LAD) or Non-land Transfer Schemes.\n\nThe Land Acquisition and Distribution involves the redistribution of private and government-owned land to landless farmers and farm workers. Under Section 6 of RA 9700 ( Section 16 of RA 6657 as amended) regarding Land Acquisition, the DAR identifies lands that are eligible for distribution under the CARP with accordance to the law, acquires the land by delivering a notice containing the offer with its corresponding value to the owner should he choose to accept the payment. Following the acquisition of lands under Section 11 of RA 9700(Section 26 of RA 6657 as amended) the DAR distributes these to the qualified beneficiaries, who then pay for the land through the Land Bank of the Philippines or directly to their former owners.\n\nUnder the CARP, a total target of 10.3 million hectares of land was programmed to be distributed over a span of ten years. Out of the total land, 6.5 million hectares of public disposal lands and Integrated Social Forestry areas are to be distributed by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) while 3.8 million hectares of private agricultural lands are to be distributed by the DAR. From July 1987 to June 1992, the DAR was able to distribute 1.77 million hectares benefiting .933 million beneficiaries, while the DENR has distributed 1.88 million hectares to .760 million farmers.\n\nLeasehold Operations is the alternative non-land transfer scheme that covers all tenanted agricultural lands in retained areas and in yet to be acquired or distributed lands. Under this component, the DAR mediates between the landowners and tenants so that their share tenancy arrangement could be turned into a leasehold agreement, whereby the beneficiaries will pay a fixed fee based on their own historical production records instead of paying a large percentage share of their produce to the landowner.\n\nThe Program Beneficiaries Development is a support service delivery component of CARP. It aims to aid the agrarian reform beneficiaries by providing them necessary support services to make their lands more productive, and enable them to venture in income generating livelihood projects in accordance to Section 14 of RA 9700(Section 37 of RA 6657 as amended) . Under the support service delivery programs, the Presidential Agrarian Reform Council(PARC) ensures that agrarian reform beneficiaries are provided with support services such as land surveys and tilting, construction of infrastructures, marketing and production assistance, credit and training.\n\nAgrarian Justice Delivery provides agrarian legal assistance and oversees the adjudication of cases. Under Section 19 of RA 97600 (Section 50 of RA 6657 as amended), the DAR is hereby vested with the primary jurisdiction to determine and adjudicate agrarian reform matters and shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over all matters involving the implementation of agrarian reform except those falling under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture (DA) and the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR).\n\nThe Agrarian Legal Assistance is under the Bureau of Legal Assistance (BALA). The BALA provides legal assistance to the beneficiaries affected by agrarian cases, particularly those whose legal rights as ARB’s are challenged by landowners.\n\nThe Adjudication of Cases involves the adjudication of cases by the Department of Agrarian Reform Adjudication Board (DARAB). The adjudication of cases deals with disputes pertaining to tenancy relations; valuation of lands acquired by DAR under compulsory acquisition mode; rights and obligations of persons, whether natural or juridical, engaged in the management cultivation and use of all agricultural lands; ejectment and dispossession of tenants/leaseholders; review of leasehold rentals; and other similar disputes.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century, the population of the Philippines increased rapidly to 75.32 million in a country of 297,410 square kilometers, with an average family size of six, making the Philippines known for high population density. In addition to this, with a population growth of 2.02 per year, the Philippine population is expected to double in the span of 25 years. 60 percent of the Philippine population is rural, and over 12 million Filipinos make a living directly from agricultural cultivation. Around 9.5 million hectares of land across the Philippines are used to plan various crops. In terms of landlessness, the number of landless agricultural families rose up from 5 million to 11.32 million families. Out of these 11.32 families, 4.6 million make a living from lands they don’t own. 0.70 million are rented, 2 million are laborers, while 1.9 million are farming as tenants.\n\nDuring the start of President Corazon Aquino’s term in 1986, the Constitutional Commission approved Section 21 under Article II, which states that “The State shall promote comprehensive rural development and agrarian reform.” This led to the drafting of CARP, which took the Congress a year to make. On June 10, 1988, Republic Act No. 6657, also known as the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law (CARL), was passed to promote social justice and industrialization. Although it was still a product of adherence to democratic principles, this law was found to have many flaws. Because of much dissatisfaction with the agrarian reform law, proposals from peasant groups and non-government organizations grew in order to implement an alternative program that was more advantageous to them. However, this did not succeed.\n\nCARP recognizes not only farmers but all landless workers as beneficiaries with the condition that they cultivate the land. The two main departments in charge of this program are Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). Aside from the land distribution, it also provides the delivery of support services and security to the farmers.\n\nUnder the Aquino administration, a total of 898,420 landless tenants and farmers became recipients of land titles and support services. Even with this, it can be considered unsuccessful because it only accomplished 22.5 percent of land distribution in 6 years. This was due to the fact that Aquino assigned 4 different DAR secretaries. The major setback for CARP was Aquino’s Hacienda Luisita’s Stock Distribution Option, which says that she was the first landlord to evade CARP on a grand scale.\n\nThe policies on agrarian reform under the Ramos administration focused on accelerating the direct land transfer and non-land transfer through adopting more rational, fair and inexpensive settlements. It encouraged landowners to invest in rural-based industries that are connected to agriculture. It made an amendment to Section 63 of CARL to increase the fund of this project to 100 billion. Salaries of workers and members of DAR board were increased to motivate them for more successful results as well.\n\nThe target land to be given to farmer beneficiaries under this Administration was 3.4 million hectares, 4.7 million or 60 percent of which was successfully distributed. It achieved more than double the output of the Aquino administration. It focused on “less contentious landholdings and acquisition modes,” where they chose to work with autonomous NGOs and peasant organizations. However, controversies were unavoidable as they encountered landlords openly harassing peasants with guns and forcing them out of the lands.\n\nThis administration focused on fast tracking land acquisition and distribution. It wanted to reduce uncertainties in land market in rural places to help farmers’ efficiency and private investment to grow. It encouraged joint ventures, corporative, contact farming and other marketing arrangements to protect the status of stakeholders and promotion of agri-industrialization. They also improved the databases of the implementing agencies of DAR and DENR to fully record and update the lands covered. Estrada highlighted that there was a need to conceptualize new approaches in doing things to build a new social agreement where producers, government and private sectors work with a common goal.\n\nThe program encountered some problems such as strong landowners' resistance. Tenants also complained on the limited amount of fund allocation provided by the government for the project. It aimed to complete 7.8 million hectares by 2004. Since President Estrada lasted only 2.5 years as president, the total beneficiaries of CARP was only 0.18 million or 10 percent.\n\nComprehensive Agrarian Reform Program Extension with Reforms, known also as CALPER or CARPer, (Republic Act 9700) is the amendatory law that extends again the deadline of distributing agricultural lands to farmers for five years. It also amends other provisions stated in CARP.\n\nIn December 2008, the budget for CARP expired and there remained 1.2 million hectares of agricultural land waiting to be acquired and distributed to farmers. CARPER was signed into law on August 7, 2009 by Gloria Macapagal Arroyo and was set to expire on June 30, 2014. However the program of distributing lands to farmer-beneficiaries continued even after June 2014. Section 30 of RA 9700 or CARPER law states that cases on the matter which are still pending “shall be allowed to proceed to its finality and be executed even beyond such date.” \n\nBeneficiaries of CARPER are landless farmers, including agricultural lessees, tenants, as well as regular, seasonal and other farmworkers. In a certain landholding the qualified beneficiaries who are tenants and regular farmworkers will receive 3 hectares each before distributing the remaining land to the other qualified beneficiaries like seasonal farmworks and other farmworkers (Section 22 of CARL). The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) identifies and screens potential beneficiaries and validates their qualifications. Beneficiaries must be least 15 years old, be a resident of the barangay where the land holding is located, and own no more than 3 hectares of agricultural land.\n\nThe CARPER law has bias for organized farmers to be beneficiaries because the Congress believes that the success rate of organized farmers is high and can make their awarded lands productive.\n\n\nIn 2003, 15 years into the program, studies funded by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), AsDB, FAO, European Union (EU) and the Philippine Government, had shown that poverty incidence among program beneficiaries declined from 47.6 to 45.2 percent, while increasing among their non-participating counterparts from 55.1 to 56.4 percent.\n\nThe Official Gazette released an update on the accomplishments in the field of agrarian reform as of June 30, 2014.\"As of December 31, 2013, the government has acquired and distributed 6.9 million hectares of land, equivalent to 88% of the\ntotal land subject to CARP.\" Of this area, the Aquino administration has distributed a total of 751,514 hectares, or 45% of the total landholdings to be distributed to the farmer beneficiaries left under this administration. From\nthis, DAR has distributed 412,782 hectares and DENR has already distributed\n338,732 hectares.In 2014 – 2016, Department of Agrarian Reform still needs to acquire 771,795 hectares (187,686 hectares in 2014; 198,631 hectares in 2015; and 385,478 hectares in 2016). The Department of Environment and Nation Resources still needs to acquire 134,857 hectares — a total of 906,652 hectares.\n\nWhile CARP(er) has had some success in improving food security and reducing poverty overall - through improved farm productivity and increased farmer incomes - the program has not escaped criticism. Major implementation problems include resistance from existing landowners (often objecting to the undervaluation of their properties), legislative gaps and funding shortfalls.\n\nThere are also claims that the program has resulted in or worsened violent conflicts between landowners and poor farmers. By June 30, 2014, the official program end date, 664 farmers had been killed in the name of land reform, according to activist group Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (Peasant Movement of the Philippines, or KMP). 568 of these were victims of extrajudicial killings. In the four years of the Noynoy Aquino administration, 96 farmers were killed as opposed to the 9 that were killed during the Arroyo administration. According to Rafael Mariano, KMP chairman, \"Farmers asserting their rights to the land were subjected to human rights abuses while peasant leaders were rendered as criminals, incarcerated and, worse, were massacred\".\n\nCARP expired when the Congress did not approve Aquino’s proposal to extend it for two more years. The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) has processed 494,945 agrarian law implementation cases since the start of the program, which the KMP claims demonstrate the program's failure and negative impact on the lives of tenants and farmers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31838", "title": "Economy of the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Economy of the United Arab Emirates\n\nThe economy of the United Arab Emirates is the second largest in the Middle East (after Saudi Arabia), with a gross domestic product (GDP) of $403.2 billion (AED 1.46 trillion) in 2014. The Emirates have been successfully diversifying its economy.\n\nAlthough the UAE has the most diversified economy in the GCC, its economy remains extremely reliant on petroleum (oil). With the exception of Dubai, most of the UAE is dependent on oil revenues. Petroleum and natural gas continue to play a central role in the economy, especially in Abu Dhabi. More than 85% of the UAE's economy was based on the oil exports in 2009. While Abu Dhabi and other UAE emirates have remained relatively conservative in their approach to diversification, Dubai, which has far smaller oil reserves, was bolder in its diversification policy. In 2011, oil exports accounted for 77% of the UAE's state budget.\n\nTourism is one of the bigger non-oil sources of revenue in the UAE, with some of the world's most luxurious hotels being based in the UAE. A massive construction boom, an expanding manufacturing base, and a thriving services sector are helping the UAE diversify its economy. Nationwide, there is currently $350 billion worth of active construction projects.\n\nThe UAE is a member of the World Trade Organization and OPEC.\n\nPrior to independence from the UK and unification in 1971, each emirate was responsible for its own economy. At the time, pearl diving, seafaring and fishing were together the mainstay of the economy, until the development of Japanese cultured pearls and the discovery of commercial quantities of oil. Previous UAE President Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan is credited with bringing the country forward into the 20th century and using the revenue from oil exports to fund all the necessary development. Likewise, former UAE vice-president Rashid Bin Saeed Al Maktoum had a bold vision for the Emirate of Dubai and foresaw the future in not petroleum alone, but also other industries.\n\nIn the 1980s Dubai's diversification centred around trade and the creation of shipping and logistics centres, notably Port Rashid and the port and Free Zone of Jebel Ali as well as Dubai International Airport, leading to a number of major global plays in shipping, transportation and logistics (DP World, Emirates, DNATA). The emergence of Dubai's lively real estate market was briefly checked by the global financial crisis of 2007-8, when Dubai was bailed out by Abu Dhabi. The recovery from the overheated market led to tighter regulation and oversight and a more realistic market for real estate throughout the UAE with many 'on hold' projects restarting. Although the market continues to expand, current market conditions for developers have been characterised as 'tough'.\n\nUAE has the second-largest economy in the Arab world (after Saudi Arabia), with a gross domestic product (GDP) of $377 billion (AED1.38 trillion) in 2012. A third of the GDP is from oil revenues. The economy was expected to grow 4–4.5% in 2013, compared to 2.3–3.5% over the previous five years. Since independence in 1971, UAE's economy has grown by nearly 231 times to AED1.45 trillion in 2013. The non-oil trade has grown to AED1.2 trillion, a growth of around 28 times from 1981 to 2012.\n\nThe UAE's economy is one of the most open worldwide, and its history of economic history goes back to the times when ships sailed to India, along the Swahili coast, as far south as Mozambique.\n\nCurrent UAE’s GDP is $386.4 Billion while the individual share is almost 70 thousand dollars.\n\nInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) expected UAE’s economic growth to increase to 4.5% in 2015, compared to 4.3% in 2014. The IMF ascribed UAE’s potentially strong economic growth in World Economic Outlook Report to the increased contribution of non-petroleum sectors, which registered a growth average of more than 6% in 2014 and 2015. Such contribution includes banking, tourism, commerce and real estate. Increase of Emirati purchasing power and governmental expenditures in infrastructure projects have considerably increased.\n\nInternationally, UAE is ranked among the top 20 for global service business, according to AT Kearney, the top 30 on the WEF “most-networked countries” and in the top quarter as a least corrupt country per the TI's corruption index.\n\nThe following table shows the main economic indicators in 1980–2017. Inflation below 2 % is in green.\n\nWith imports totaling $273.5 billion in 2012, UAE passed Saudi Arabia as the largest consumer market in the region. Exports totaled $314 billion, which makes UAE the second largest exporter in the region.\n\nUAE and India are each other's main trading partners, with the latter having many of its citizens working and living in the former. The trade totals over $75 billion (AED275.25 billion).\n\nThe top five of the Main Partner Countries of the UAE in 2014 are Iran (3.0%), India (2.9%), Saudi Arabia (1.5%), Oman (1.4%) and Switzerland (1.2%). As for the top five of UAE suppliers are China (7.4%), United States (6.4%), India (5.8%), Germany (3.9%) and Japan (3.5%).\n\nAlthough UAE has the most diversified economy in the GCC, the UAE's economy remains extremely reliant on oil. With the exception of Dubai, most of the UAE is dependent on oil revenues. Petroleum and natural gas continue to play a central role in the economy, especially in Abu Dhabi. More than 85% of the UAE's economy was based on the oil exports in 2009. While Abu Dhabi and other UAE emirates have remained relatively conservative in their approach to diversification, Dubai, which has far smaller oil reserves, was bolder in its diversification policy. In 2011, oil exports accounted for 77% of the UAE's state budget.\n\nDubai suffered from a significant economic crisis in 2007-2010 and was bailed out by Abu Dhabi's oil wealth. Dubai's current prosperity has been attributed to Abu Dhabi's petrodollars. In 2014, Dubai owed a total of $142 billion in debt. The UAE government has worked towards reducing the economy's dependence on oil exports by 2030. Various projects are underway to help achieve this, the most recent being the Khalifa Port, opened in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi at the end of 2012. The UAE has also won the right to host the World Expo 2020, which is believed to have a positive effect on future growth, although there are some skeptics which mention the opposite.\n\nOver the decades, the Emirate of Dubai has started to look for additional sources of revenue. High-class tourism and international finance continue to be developed. In line with this initiative, the Dubai International Financial Centre was announced, offering 55.5% foreign ownership, no withholding tax, freehold land and office space and a tailor-made financial regulatory system with laws taken from best practice in other leading financial centres like New York, London, Zürich and Singapore. A new stock market for regional companies and other initiatives were announced in DIFC. Dubai has also developed Internet and Media free zones, offering 100% foreign ownership, no tax office space for the world's leading ICT and media companies, with the latest communications infrastructure to service them. Many of the world's leading companies have now set up branch offices, and even changed headquarters to, there. Recent liberalisation in the property market allowing non citizens to buy freehold land has resulted in a major boom in the construction and real estate sectors, with several signature developments such as the 2 Palm Islands, the World (archipelago), Dubai Marina, Jumeirah Lake Towers, and a number of other developments, offering villas and high rise apartments and office space. Emirates (part of the Emirates Group) was formed by the Dubai Government in the 1980s and is presently one of the few airlines to witness strong levels of growth. Emirates is also the largest operator of the Airbus A380 aircraft. , budgeted government revenues were about AED 29.7 billion, and expenditures were about AED 22.9 billion.In addition, to finding new ways of sustaining the national economy, the UAE has also made progress in installing new, sustainable methods of generating electricity. This is evidenced by various solar energy initiatives at Masdar City and by other renewable energy developments in parts of the country.\n\nIn addition, the UAE is starting to see the emergence of local manufacturing as new source of economic development, examples of significant government-led investments such as Strata in aerospace industry, under Mubadala are successful, while there are also small scale entrepreneurial ventures picking up, such as Zarooq Motors in the automotive industry.\n\nWith reference to foreign trade, UAE's market is one of the world's most dynamic markets worldwide, placed among the 16 largest exporters and 20 largest importers of commodities. The top five of the Main Partner Countries of the UAE in 2014 are Iran (3.0%), India (2.9%), Saudi Arabia (1.5%), Oman (1.4%) and Switzerland (1.2%). As for the top five of UAE suppliers are China (7.4%), United States (6.4%), India (5.8%), Germany (3.9%) and Japan (3.5%).\nIn 2014, the United Arab Emirates managed to export 380.4bn dominated by four products which are Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous... (19.8%) Diamonds, whether or not worked, but not mounted... (3.4%) Gold, incl. gold plated with platinum, unwrought... (3.2%) Articles of jewellery and parts thereof, of...(2.8%). In the same year, the United Arab Emirates imported 298.6 bn dominated by five countries which are China (7.4%), United States (6.4%), India (5.8%), Germany (3.9%), Japan (3.5%).\n\nOn one hand, the United Arab Emirates managed in 2013 to export 17 bn USD services exported in 2013 dominated by travel (67.13%), transportation (28.13%), Government services (4.74%). On the other hand, it imported 63.9 bn USD of services imported services dominated by transportation (70.68%), travel (27.70%) and government services (1.62%).\n\nEmiratisation is an initiative by the government of the UAE to employ more UAE Nationals in a meaningful and efficient manner in the public and private sectors. While the program has been in place for more than a decade and results can be seen in the public sector, the private sector is still lagging behind with citizens only representing 0.34% of the private sector workforce.\n\nWhile there is general agreement over the importance of Emiratisation for social, economic and political reasons, there is also some contention as to the impact of localization on organizational efficiency. It is yet unknown whether, and the extent to which, employment of nationals generates returns for MNEs operating in the Middle East. Recent research cautions that localization is not always advantageous for firms operating in the region, and its effectiveness depends on a number of contingent factors.\n\nIn December 2009 however, a positive impact of UAE citizens in the workplace was identified in a newspaper article citing a yet unpublished study, this advantage being the use of networks within the evolving power structures.\n\nOverall, however, uptake in the private sector remains low regardless of significant investments in education, which have reached record levels with education now accounting for 22.5% – or $2.6 billion – of the overall budget planned for 2010. Multiple governmental initiatives are actively promoting Emiratisation by training anyone from highschool dropouts to graduates in a multitude of skills needed for the - essentially Western - work environment of the UAE, these initiatives include Tawteen UAE, ENDP or the Abu Dhabi Tawteen Council.\n\nThere are very few anti-discrimination laws in relation to labour issues, with Emiratis – and other GCC nationals – being given preference when it comes to employment. Unions are generally banned and workers with any labour issues are advised to be in touch with the Ministry of Labour, instead of protesting or refusing to work. Migrant employees often complain of poor workplace safety and wages based on nationality, although this is being slowly addressed.\n\nBeyond directly sponsoring educational initiatives, the Emirates Foundation for Philanthropy is funding major research initiatives into Emiratisation through competitive research grants, allowing universities such as United Arab Emirates University or Dubai School of Government to build and disseminate expertise on the topic.\n\nAcademics working on various aspects of Emiratisation include \"Paul Dyer\"[12] and \"Natasha Ridge\" from Dubai School of Government, \"Ingo Forstenlechner\"[13] from United Arab Emirates University, \"Kasim Randaree\" from the British University of Dubai and Paul Knoglinger from the FHWien.\n\nThe stock market capitalisation of listed companies in the UAE was valued at $109.9 billion in October 2012 by Bloomberg.\n\nA investment institutions were created by the government to promote manage investments made by the UAE abroad:\n\nAbu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA)\n\nThe UAE is in the 17th position in term of the Global Competitiveness Index (GCI). The report says that the UAE competitiveness stems from \"high quality [...] infrastructure\" and \"highly efficient good markets.” \n\nThe Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA) introduced a new corporate governance regulation (the Corporate Governance Code), which applies to all joint stock companies and institutions whose securities are listed on Dubai Financial Market (DFM) and Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange (ADX) in 2009.\n\nThe development in the real estate and infrastructure sectors during the recent year has contributed in making the country a global touristic destination. The contribution of tourism in the Emirati GDP increased from 3% in the mid-1990s to more than 16.5% by the end of 2010. This trend is supported by the huge public investments in touristic projects (47 Billion Dollars per annum) carried mainly to expend airports, increase their capacity, set up new airports and ports.\n\nThe real estate sector have a positive impact on development, job opportunities, investments and tourism as estate projects were launched to meet the needs of market and the increasing demand for housing and commercial units especially in Dubai and Abu Dhabi. The UAE has 18 tour hotels out of the 155 (150 meters high) that exist around the world. This makes the UAE the third destination with such tours after China and America in 2014. These buildings are among the UAE’s attractions for tourists.\n\nThe leap in real estate sector along and infrastructure development in the UAE during the recent year has contributed in making this country a global touristic destination par excellence. Therefore, the contribution of tourism in the Emirati GDP increased from 3% in the mid-1990s to more than 16.5% by the end of 2010. This trend is supported by the huge public investments in touristic projects (47 Billion Dollars per year) carried mainly to expend airports, increase their capacity, set up new airports and ports.\n\nThe UAE has 18 tour hotels out of the 155 (150 meters high) that exist around the world. This makes the UAE the third destination with such tours after China and America in 2014. These buildings are among the UAE’s attraction elements for tourists. Dubai has adopted dazzling ideas in construction and design of these tall tours.\n\nThe UAE has about 37% of the region’s petroleum and gas industries, chemical industries, energy and water and garbage projects. The UAE's government have been injecting huge funds in tourism and real estate projects, especially in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. Al Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi and Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the tallest tower in the world, world central near “Jebel Ali” are a point in case of the milestones that have given the UAE its high profile of a global tourist destination. According to 2013-2014 Global Competitiveness Report, the UAE ranked fourth worldwide in terms of infrastructure quality.\n\nSome of the significant real-estate projects are:\n\nAmong the most prominent financial centers in the UAE are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34791692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34791692", "title": "General Law Amendment Act, 1963", "text": "General Law Amendment Act, 1963\n\nThe General Law Amendment Act, number 37 of 1963 (commenced 2 May) allowed a South African police officer to detain without warrant a person suspected of a politically motivated crime for up to 90 days without access to a lawyer. When used in practice, suspects were re-detained for another 90-day period immediately after release.\n\nThe Amendment Act also introduced the \"Sobukwe Clause\" which allowed people already convicted of political offenses to be further detained (initially for twelve months). Named the Sobukwe Clause because it was used to keep PAC leader Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe (who was originally arrested in 1960 and sentenced to three years) in Robben Island for an additional six years.\n\nThis Act strengthened previous amendments by further defining political crimes under Apartheid. Section 5 of the Act made a capital crime out of \"receiving training that could further the objects of communism or advocating abroad economic or social change in South Africa by violent means through the aid of a foreign government or institution where the accused is a resident or former resident of South Africa\".\n\nThe legislation made provisions for imposing \"sentences ranging from a minimum of five years imprisonment to death for anyone leaving the country to learn sabotage techniques, for advocating the forcible overthrow of the government or for urging the forcible intervention in domestic South African affairs by an outside power, including the UN\".\n\nThe act was amended by the General Law Amendment Act No 80 of 1964 which allowed the Minister of Justice of Apartheid South Africa to extend the \"Sobukwe Clause\" as desired.\n\nThe act was repealed by the Internal Security Act, 1982, which, however, gave the government similar powers of detention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27459073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27459073", "title": "Green European Foundation", "text": "Green European Foundation\n\nThe Green European Foundation is a political foundation at European level funded by the European Parliament. It is linked to, but independent of, other European Green actors such as the European Green Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament.\n\nThe Green European Foundation (GEF) was founded in 2008. Modelled on many successful national Green political foundations, the mission of GEF is to encourage European citizens to participate in European political discussions and to ultimately forge a stronger, more participative European democracy. \nThe Green European Foundation organises debates, conducts research and publishes various documents concerning green politics. Though its main office is based in Brussels, it aims to reach out to people across Europe and in 2017 it organised tens of events in more than 20 European countries. \n\nThree stakeholders are at the heart of the Green European Foundation:\n\n\nThese stakeholders are represented in GEF's General Assembly, which meets on a biannual basis and which has the responsibility of electing the foundation's board. As of June 2018, the following national foundations are represented in the General Assembly as full members:\n\n\nThe following are associate members:\n\n\nGEF's current directors (as of October 2016) are: \n\n"}
{"id": "6896458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6896458", "title": "Guayana Esequiba", "text": "Guayana Esequiba\n\nGuayana Esequiba () is a territory administered by Guyana and claimed by Venezuela.\n\nThe territory was first included in the Viceroyalty of New Granada and the Captaincy General of Venezuela by Spain, but was later included in Essequibo by the Dutch and in British Guiana by the United Kingdom. Originally, parts of what is now eastern Venezuela were included in the disputed area. The portion today under the administration of Guyana divides the area in six administrative regions (Barima-Waini, Cuyuni-Mazaruni, Pomeroon-Supenaam, Potaro-Siparuni, Upper Takutu-Upper Essequibo and Essequibo Islands-West Demerara), while Venezuela treats it as a single entity (Guayana Esequiba or \"Zona en Reclamación\"). This territory of is the subject of a long-running boundary dispute inherited from the colonial powers and complicated by the independence of Guyana in 1966. The status of the territory is subject to the Treaty of Geneva, which was signed by the United Kingdom, Venezuela and British Guiana on February 17, 1966. This treaty stipulates that the parties will agree to find a practical, peaceful and satisfactory solution to the dispute.\n\nIn 1648 Spain signed the Peace of Münster with the Dutch Republic, whereby Spain recognized the Republic's independence and also small Dutch possessions located east of the Essequibo River, which had been founded by the Dutch Republic before it was recognised by Spain. However, few decades after the Peace of Münster, the Dutch began to spread gradually west of the Essequibo River, inside the Spanish Guayana Province. These new settlements were regularly contested and destroyed by the Spanish authorities.\n\nThe French Encyclopédie, published in the second half of the 18th century, noted the border as lying on the Essequibo river.\n\nWhen Spain created the Captaincy General of Venezuela in 1777, the Essequibo river was restated as the natural border between Spanish territory and the Dutch colony of Essequibo. Spanish authorities, in a report dated 10 July 1788, put forward an official claim against the Dutch expansion over her territory, and proposed a borderline:\n\nIt has been stated that the south bank of the Orinoco from the point of Barima, 20 leagues more or less inland, up to the creek of Curucima, is low lying and swampy land and, consequently, reckoning all this tract as useless, very few patches of fertile land being found therein, and hardly any savannahs and pastures, it is disregarded; so taking as chief base the said creek of Curucima, or the point of the chain and ridge in the great arm of the Imataka, an imaginary line will be drawn running to the south-south-east following the slopes of the ridge of the same name which is crossed by the rivers Aguire, Arature and Amacuro, and others, in the distance of 20 leagues, direct to the Cuyuni; from there it will run on to the Masaruni and Essequibo, parallel to the sources of the Berbis and Surinama; this is the directing line of the course which the new Settlements and foundations proposed must follow.\n\nHowever, no boundary between the Spanish and Dutch possessions was ever defined. Under the Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1814, Dutch colonies of Demerara, Berbice and Essequibo were transferred to Great Britain. In 1831, Britain merged Berbice, Demerara, and Essequibo into British Guiana, with the Essequibo River as its west border, although many British settlers lived west of the Essequibo.\n\nIn 1822 José Rafael Revenga, Minister Plenipotentiary of Gran Colombia to Britain, complained to the British government at the direction of Simón Bolívar about the presence of British settlers in territory claimed by Venezuela: \"The colonists of Demerara and Berbice have usurped a large portion of land, which according to recent treaties between Spain and Holland, belongs to our country at the west of Essequibo River. It is absolutely essential that these settlers be put under the jurisdiction and obedience to our laws, or be withdrawn to their former possessions.\"\n\nIn 1824 Venezuela appointed José Manuel Hurtado as its new Ambassador to Britain. Hurtado officially presented to the British government Venezuela's claim to the border at the Essequibo River, which was not objected to by Britain. However, the British government continued to promote colonization of territory west of the Essequibo River in succeeding years.\n\nIn 1835, under the aegis of the Royal Geographical Society, the German-born explorer and naturalist Robert Hermann Schomburgk conducted botanical and geographical exploration of British Guiana. This resulted in a sketch of the territory with a line marking what he believed to be the western boundary claimed by the Dutch. As a result of this, he was commissioned in 1840 by the British government to survey Guiana's boundaries. This survey resulted in what came to be known as the \"Schomburgk Line\". Schomburgk's initial sketch, which had been published in 1840, was the only version of the \"Schomburgk Line\" published until 1886, which led to later accusations by US President Grover Cleveland that the line had been extended \"in some mysterious way\".\n\nThe Line went well beyond the area of British occupation, and gave British Guiana control of the mouth of the Orinoco River. According to Schomburgk, it did not contain all the area that Britain might legitimately claim. Venezuela disputed Schomburgk's placing of border markers at the Orinoco river, and in 1844 claimed all of Guiana west of the Essequibo River. Also in 1844, a British proposal to Venezuela to modify the border to give Venezuela full control of the Orinoco river mouth and adjacent territory was ignored. In 1850 both Britain and Venezuela reached an agreement whereby they accepted not to colonize the disputed territory, although where this territory began and ended was not established.\n\nThe dispute went unmentioned until 1876, by which point gold mines inhabited mainly by English-speaking people had been established in the Cuyuni basin, which was Venezuelan territory beyond the Schomburgk line but within the area Schomburgk thought Britain could claim. In 1876 Venezuela reiterated its claim up to the Essequibo river, to which the British responded with a counterclaim including the entire Cuyuni basin, although this was a paper claim which the British never intended to pursue. On 21 February 1881, Venezuela proposed a frontier line starting from a point one mile to the north of the Moruka River, drawn from there westward to the 60th meridian and running south along that meridian. This would have granted the Barima District to Venezuela.\n\nIn October 1886 Britain declared the Schomburgk Line to be the provisional frontier of British Guiana, and in February 1887 Venezuela severed diplomatic relations. In 1894 Venezuela appealed to the United States to intervene, citing the Monroe Doctrine as justification. The United States did not want to get involved, only going as far as suggesting the possibility of arbitration.\n\nThe longstanding dispute became a diplomatic crisis in 1895. Venezuela hired William Lindsay Scruggs as its lobbyist in Washington, D.C. Scruggs took up Venezuela's argument that British action violated the Monroe Doctrine. Scruggs used his influence to get the US government to accept this claim and get involved. President Grover Cleveland adopted a broad interpretation of the Doctrine that did not just simply forbid new European colonies but declared an American interest in any matter within the hemisphere. British prime minister Lord Salisbury and British ambassador to the US Lord Pauncefote both misjudged the importance the American government placed on the dispute. The key issue in the crisis became Britain's refusal to include the territory east of the Schomburgk Line in the proposed international arbitration. Ultimately Britain backed down and tacitly accepted the US right to intervene under the Monroe Doctrine. This US intervention forced Britain to accept arbitration of the entire disputed territory.\n\nThe Treaty of Arbitration between Great Britain and Venezuela was signed in Washington on 2 February 1897. This treaty specifically stipulated the legal framework for the arbitration, and its first article stated that\" \"An arbitral Tribunal shall be immediately appointed to determine the boundary line between the United States of Venezuela and the Colony of British Guiana\".\"\n\nThe Treaty provided the legal framework, procedures and conditions for the Tribunal in order to solve the issue and reach to determinate a border. Its third article established that \"The Tribunal shall investigate and ascertain the extent of the territories belonging to, or that might lawfully be claimed by the United Netherlands or by the Kingdom of Spain respectively at the time of the acquisition by Great Britain of the Colony of British Guiana, and shall determine the boundary line between the Colony of British Guiana and the United States of Venezuela\". The Treaty also established the rules and principles to be followed by the Tribunal in order to draw the borderline.\n\nVenezuela argued that Spain–whose territory they had acquired–controlled land from the Orinoco River to the Amazon River in present day Brazil. Spain, according to Venezuela, only designated its claimed Guiana territory to the Dutch, which did not include much land within the disputed territory. Meanwhile, Britain, who had acquired the Dutch territory, stated that the disputed Guiana region was not Spanish because it was so remote and uncontrolled, explaining that the original natives in the land had shared the territory's land with the Dutch instead of the Spanish and were thus under Dutch and British influence.\n\nThe rival claims were presented to a tribunal of five arbitrators: two from Britain, two from the US (representing Venezuela's interest) and one from Russia, who were presumed neutral. Venezuela reiterated its claim to the district immediately west of the Essequibo, and claimed that the boundary should run from the mouth of the Moruka River southwards to the Cuyuni River, near its junction with the Mazaruni River, and then along the east bank of the Essequibo to the Brazilian border. \n\nOn 3 October 1899 the Tribunal ruled largely in favour of Britain. The Schomburgk Line was, with two deviations, established as the border between British Guiana and Venezuela. One deviation was that Venezuela received Barima Point at the mouth of the Orinoco, giving it undisputed control of the river, and thus the ability to levy duties on Venezuelan commerce. The second placed the border at the Wenamu River rather than the Cuyuni River, giving Venezuela substantial territory east of the line. However, Britain received most of the disputed territory, and all of the gold mines.\n\nThe Venezuelan representatives, claiming that Britain had unduly influenced the decision of the Russian member of the tribunal, protested the outcome. Periodic protests, however, were confined to the domestic political arena and international diplomatic forums.\n\nIn 1899, immediately after the arbitration ruling, the US counsel for Venezuela were interviewed jointly, and pointed out their first claims against the ruling:\n\n\"Great Britain, up to the time of the intervention of the United States, distinctly refused to arbitrate any portion of the territory east of the Schomburgk line, alleging that its title was unassailable. This territory included the Attacuri river and Point Barima, which is of the greatest value strategically and commercially. The award gives Point Barima, with a strip of land fifty miles long, to Venezuela, which thereby obtains entire control of the River Orinoco. Three thousand square miles in the interior are also awarded to Venezuela. Thus, by a decision in which the British arbitrators concurred, the position taken by Great Britain in 1895 is shown to be unfounded [...] The President of the tribunal in his closing address today had commented upon the unanimity of the present judgment and had referred to it as a proof of the success of the arbitration, but it did not require much intelligence to penetrate behind this superficial statement and to see that the line drawn is a line of compromise and not a line of right. If the British contention was right, the line should have been drawn further west; if it were wrong, the line should have been drawn much further east. There was nothing in the history of the controversy, nor in the legal principle involved, which could adequately explain why the line should be drawn where it had been. So long as arbitration was conducted on such principles, it could not be regarded as a success, at least by those who believe that arbitration should result in the admission of legal rights and not in compromises really diplomatic in character. Venezuela had gained much, but was entitled to much more, and if the arbitrators were unanimous, it must be because their failure to agree would have confirmed Great Britain in the possession of even more territory\".\"\n\nThe Venezuelan government showed almost immediate disapproval with the 1899 Arbitral Award. As early as October 7, 1899 Venezuela voiced her condemnation of the Award, and demanded the renegotiation of her eastern border with British Guiana: that day, Venezuelan Foreign Minister José Andrade made clear that the Arbitral Award was the product of political collusion and it should not be adhered to by Venezuela. After numerous bilateral diplomatic attempts failed to convince Great Britain of her seriousness to nullify the award, Venezuela denounced it before the first assembly of the United Nations, in 1945.\n\nOn October 26, 1899 in a letter to a colleague, Severo Mallet-Prevost, the Official Secretary of the US–Venezuela delegation in the Tribunal of Arbitration, stated that the Arbitral Award was the result of pressures brought on the judges by the President of the Tribunal, Friedrich Martens. By 1949, the US jurist Otto Schoenrich gave the Venezuelan government a memorandum written by Mallet-Prevost, which was written in 1944 to be published only after his death. Mallet-Prevost surmised from the private behavior of the judges that there had a political deal between Russia and Britain, and said that the Russian chair of the panel, Friedrich Martens, had visited Britain with the two British arbitrators in the summer of 1899, and subsequently had offered the two American judges a choice between accepting a unanimous award along the lines ultimately agreed, or a 3 to 2 majority opinion even more favourable to the British. The alternative would have followed the Schomburgk Line entirely, and given the mouth of the Orinoco to the British. Mallet-Prevost said that the American judges and Venezuelan counsel were disgusted at the situation and considered the 3 to 2 option with a strongly worded minority opinion, but ultimately went along with Martens to avoid depriving Venezuela of even more territory. This memorandum provided further evidence for Venezuela's contentions that there had in fact been a political deal between the British judges and the Russian judge at the Arbitral Tribunal, and led to Venezuela's revival of its claim to the disputed territory.\n\nVenezuela formally raised the issue again at an international level before the United Nations in 1962, four years before Guyana won independence from Britain. Venezuela cited the alleged Russia-UK deal noted above as an offence of collusion, as well as several improprieties and vices in the ruling, especially \"Ultra Vires\", due to the fact that the referees drew the border between British Guiana, Brazil and Suriname, and also decreed freedom of navigation in the Amacuro and Barima rivers, exceeding the scope of powers granted by the arbitration treaty, in 1897.\n\nThe Venezuelan claim of the nullity of the 1899 ruling has been acknowledged by several foreign scholars and jurists, such as J. Gillis Wetter of Sweden, in his work \"The International Arbitral Process\" (1979), awarded by the American Society of International Law. By searching on the British official archives, Wetter provided further evidence of the shady deal between Britain and Russia, what made him conclude that the ruling was marred by serious procedural and substantive defects, evidence that it was more a political compromise than a court ruling. Uruguayan jurist Eduardo Jiménez de Aréchaga, former President of the International Court of Justice, came to similar conclusions.\n\nAt a meeting in Geneva on February 17, 1966, the governments of British Guiana, the United Kingdom and Venezuela signed the \"Agreement to resolve the controversy over the frontier between Venezuela and British Guiana\", best known thereafter as the Treaty of Geneva (1966). This agreement established the regulatory framework to be followed by the parties in order to resolve the issue. According to the treaty, a Mixed Commission was installed with the purpose of seeking satisfactory solutions for the practical settlement of the border controversy, but the parties never agreed to implement a solution within this Commission due to different interpretations of the treaty.\n\n\nThe fifth article of the Treaty of Geneva established the status of the disputed territories. The provisions state that no acts or activities taking place on the disputed territories while the Agreement is in force \"shall constitute a basis for asserting, supporting or denying a claim to territorial sovereignty\". The treaty also has a provision prohibiting both nations from pursuing the issue except through official inter-government channels.\n\nIn its note of recognition of the independence of Guyana on 26 May 1966, Venezuela stated:\n\nVenezuela recognises as territory of the new State the one which is located on the east of the right bank of the Essequibo River, and reiterates before the new State, and before the international community, that it expressly reserves its rights of territorial sovereignty over all the zone located on the west bank of the above-mentioned river. Therefore, the Guyana-Essequibo territory over which Venezuela expressly reserves its sovereign rights, limits on the east by the new State of Guyana, through the middle line of the Essequibo River, beginning from its source and on to its mouth in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nDespite signing the Geneva Agreement in February 1966, aimed at resolving the border controversy, which provided that \"no new claim or enlargement of an existing claim to territorial sovereignty in these territories (in Venezuela and British Guiana) shall be asserted while this agreement is in force, nor shall any claim whatsoever be asserted otherwise than in the Mixed Commission while that Commission is in being\", Venezuela, a few months after signing the agreement sent a well-armed group of soldiers along with civilians and encroached upon and occupied territory by Guyana side of the border. This encroachment occurred, unknowing to Guyana Government, on the half of the island of Ankoko that Guyana claims as its own at the confluence of the boundary rivers, Cuyuni and Wenamu (Wenamo). It took the form of the introduction of military and civilian personnel and the establishment of an airstrip and the erection of other installations and structures, including a post office, school and military and police outposts. The incursion on the territory on Ankoko Island claimed by Guyana as its own by Venezuela was reported to the Guyanese authorities early in October 1966 by a diamond prospector who was in that forested and almost uninhabited area at the time. As a result, a Guyanese team of senior officials, including police officers, visited the vicinity on 12 October 1966 and verified that Venezuelan personnel were allegedly occupying the Guyana claimed side of the island where they had already constructed an airstrip.\n\nIn 1969, three years after the independence of Guyana, a group of local ranchers and Amerindians in the town of Lethem broke out in open armed rebellion against the Guyanese government, and tried to secede. This event, called the Rupununi Uprising, was controlled by the Guyanese armed forces, which then accused Venezuela of supporting the rebellion. The Venezuelan government denied such allegations, although some of the ranchers involved were given refuge in her territory thereafter. Since they were born in Guayana Esequiba, the ranchers claimed entitlement to the Venezuelan citizenship and the government granted it.\n\nIn 1970, after the expiration of the Mixed Commission established according to the Treaty of Geneva, Presidents Rafael Caldera and Forbes Burnham signed the Port of Spain Protocol, which declared a 12-year moratorium on Venezuela's reclamation of Guayana Esequiba, with the purpose of allowing both governments to promote cooperation and understanding while the border claim was in abeyance. Venezuelan maps produced since 1970 show the entire area from the eastern bank of the Essequibo, including the islands in the river, as Venezuelan territory. On some maps, the western Essequibo region is called the \"Zone in Reclamation\".\n\nIn 1983 the deadline of the Port of Spain Protocol expired, and the Venezuelan President Luis Herrera Campins decided not to extend it anymore and resume the effective claim over the territory. Since then, the contacts between Venezuela and Guyana within the provisions of the Treaty of Geneva are under the recommendations of a UN Secretary General's representative, who can be changed from time to time under agreement by both parties. Diplomatic contacts between the two countries and the Secretary General's representative continue, but there have been some clashes. The Norwegian Dag Nylander appointed in March 2017, is the latest personal representative in these efforts selected by the UN Secretary General António Guterres. If by December, 2017 the UN understands that there is no \"significant progress\" in resolving the dispute, Guterres will refer the case to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, unless the two countries explicitly request it not to do so.\n\nIn September 2011, Guyana made an application before the United Nations' Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf in order to extend its continental shelf by a further . Since the Commission requests that the areas to be considered cannot be subject to any kind of territorial disputes, the Guyanese application disregarded the Venezuelan claim over Guayana Esequiba, by saying that \"there are no disputes in the region relevant to this submission of data and information relating to the outer limits of the continental shelf beyond .\" Venezuela sent an objection to the Commission, rejecting the Guyanese application and warning that Guyana had proposed a limit for its continental shelf including \"the territory west of the Essequibo river, which is the subject of a territorial sovereignty dispute under the Geneva Agreement of 1966 and, within this framework, a matter for the good offices of the Secretary-General of the United Nations\". Venezuela also said that Guyana consulted its neighbors Barbados, Suriname and Trinidad and Tobago before making the application, but did not do the same with Venezuela. \"Such a lack of consultation with the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, serious in itself in that it violates the relevant rules, is inexplicable in so far as the coast whose projection is used by the Republic of Guyana in its attempt to extend the limits forms part of the disputed territory over which Venezuela demands and reiterates its claim to sovereignty rights\", said the Venezuelan communiqué.\n\nGuyana has also awarded oil exploration rights in the disputed maritime areas, which has caused clashes with Venezuela. On October 10, 2013, the Venezuelan Navy detained an oil exploration vessel conducting seafloor surveys on behalf of the government of Guyana. The ship and its crew were escorted to the Venezuelan Margarita Island to be prosecuted. The Guyanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the vessel was in Guyanese waters, but its Venezuelan counterpart sent a diplomatic note to Guyana stating that the ship was conducting oil research in Venezuelan waters with no authorization from the country, and demanded an explanation. The vessel, \"Teknik Perdana\", together with its crew, was released the next week, but its captain was charged with violating the Venezuelan exclusive economic zone.\n\nVenezuela considers the maritime areas in the Atlantic Ocean where the vessel was conducting its operations part of its \"Atlantic front\". In accordance with the border treaty signed between Venezuela and Trinidad and Tobago in 1990, Venezuela has a long Atlantic front as is shown in its official maps, regardless of its claim over Guayana Esequiba.\n\nDespite diplomatic protests from Venezuela, the government of Guyana awarded the American oil corporation Exxon a license to drill for oil in the disputed maritime area in early 2015. In May the government of Guyana announced that Exxon had indeed found promising results in their first round of drilling on the so-called Stabroek Block, an area offshore the Guayana Esequiba territory with a size of . The company announced that further drillings would take place in the coming months to better evaluate the potential of the oil field. Venezuela responded to the declaration with a decree issued on May 27, 2015, including the maritime area in dispute in its national marine protection sphere, thus extending the area that the Venezuelan Navy controls into the disputed area. This in turn caused the government of Guyana to summon the Venezuelan ambassador for further explanation. The tensions have further intensified since and Guyana withdrew the operating license of Conviasa, the Venezuelan national airline, stranding a plane and passengers in Georgetown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13904987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13904987", "title": "Hand in Hand: Center for Jewish-Arab Education in Israel", "text": "Hand in Hand: Center for Jewish-Arab Education in Israel\n\nHand in Hand: Center for Jewish-Arab Education in Israel (Hebrew: יד ביד: המרכז לחינוך יהודי ערבי בישראל, Arabic: يدا بيد: مركز التربية اليهودي العربي في إسرائيل) is a network of integrated, bilingual schools for Jewish and Arab children in Israel. Hand in Hand was co-founded by Israeli Arab educator Amin Khalaf and Israeli American educator Lee Gordon in 1997 with 50 students at two campuses.\n\nHand in Hand's mission is to create a strong and inclusive shared society in Israel through a network of integrated, bilingual schools and active communities. The organization's philosophy is that the actual living experience of its students, teachers, parents and others who participate in its schools and communities can inspire broad support for social inclusion and civic equality in Israel.\n\nHand in Hand now operates four schools with more than 900 Jewish and Arab students; next year there will be 5 schools with 1100+ students. More than 3,000 parents and other adults, Jews and Arabs alike, currently participate in integrated community activities organized by Hand in Hand. Over the next 10 years, Hand in Hand aims to create a network of 10 to 15 integrated bilingual schools, supported and enhanced by active communities, altogether involving more than 20,000 Israeli citizens. .\n\nHand in Hand was founded in 1997 by two Israeli educators, one Arab and one Jewish. They started the first two schools in 1998, one in the Galilee region near the Misgav Regional Council and one in Jerusalem. These first two schools grew, and in the summer of 2003, a group of interested parents from the Wadi Ara region in the Arab Triangle met to express interest in establishing a third Hand in Hand School in their region.\n\nAfter delays, which included difficulty winning recognition from the Israeli Ministry of Education, the \"Bridge over the Wadi\" (\"Gesher al haWadi\", Hebrew: גשר על הואדי) school opened on September 1, 2004, with 106 students. The teachers come from Jewish and Arab towns in the area.\n\nHand in Hand's fourth school opened in September 2007 in the city of Beer Sheva. This school is now fully independent of Hand in Hand.\n\nOn October 21, 2007, Hand in Hand's Max Rayne school opened in Jerusalem's Pat neighborhood near the Arab village of Beit Safafa. The new campus was built with $11 million from donors including the Jerusalem Foundation, the Rayne Foundation, and other European donors.\n\nIn 2012, a preschool was opened in the urban area of Haifa, with a kindergarten in 2013.\n\nHand in Hand has also partnered with Project Harmony Israel since 2010 to provide an English immersion summer camp for Hand in Hand students as well as students from around Jerusalem.\n\nIn November 2014 the Hand in Hand Max Rayne School was subjected to an arson, suspected of being a hate crime that was racially motivated. The school was also defaced with anti-Arab slogans such as \"Death to Arabs\" and \"Kahane was right!\" Shortly thereafter, the \"Tag Meir\" coexistence organization held a support rally to counter those who threatening Arab-Jewish cooperation and promoting racism in Israel. Mohamad Marzouk, head of communications for the Hand in Hand school in Kfar Qara, noted that the attack brought out a show of community support for the school. In the minds of many people the arson, he said, \"crossed a red line.\" The Israeli police arrested a number of suspects in connection with this arson attack. Following the arrest, the mother of one of the suspects said she would have burned the school as well, if it were not illegal to do so, and she expressed disgust and revulsion that Jews and Arabs studied together at the school. \nIsraeli President Reuven Rivlin, along with his wife Nechama, invited the Hand in Hand first graders to his official residence along with their teachers. He told them: \"“I am excited to welcome you to the President’s Residence. You are proof that we can live side by side in peace, and we must not let difficult experiences - such as the one you have been through - harm our belief in our ability to coexist.” \n\nIn December 2014 the White House commissioned a menorah made by students at the Max Rayne schools and invited two of its students to join U.S. President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama as they welcomed over 500 guests to the White House Hanukkah celebration. Each of the branches on the multi-colored wooden menorah represents one of the schools' values: Community, Education, Freedom, Human Dignity, Peace, Equality, Solidarity, and Friendship. President Obama said these \"students teach us an important lesson for this time in our history. The light of hope must outlast the fires of hate. That’s what the Hanukkah story teaches us. It’s what our young people can teach us— that one act of faith can make a miracle, that love is stronger than hate, that peace can triumph over conflict.”\n\nThe Hand in Hand philosophy stems from the observation that Jewish and Arab citizens of Israel live separately from one another in virtually all aspects of daily life. This separation is particularly obvious in the K-12 public education system, which is based on separate schools for Jews and Arabs. Although children may legally attend either type of school, the fact is that only a few Arab children attend Jewish schools (where the primary language of instruction is Hebrew), and essentially no Jewish children attend Arab schools (where the primary language of instruction is Arabic). The separation of the communities, and the barriers to communication carry through to other aspects of adult life.\n\nIn 1998, Hand in Hand began establishing a network of schools with integrated student populations, integrated teaching and supervisory staffs, and a bilingual educational curriculum and methodology. From the beginning, Hand in Hand has been committed to maintaining its schools as part of the Israeli public education system: operating under the supervision of the Ministry of Education, using a core curriculum based on Ministry of Education-approved content, and receiving substantial core funding from the Ministry of Education budget.\n\nTo this Ministry of Education core, Hand in Hand has added special elements to implement the bilingual education and social values that are its reason for being:\n\n• Both Hebrew and Arabic are primary languages of instruction (often with dual teachers in a single classroom);\n\n• The curriculum includes extra content to acknowledge and respect the traditions, history, values, holidays, and culture of all students (Jewish, Christian and Muslim); and\n\n• Specialized guidance and mentoring help students, teachers, and parents express empathy and mutual respect in the most difficult of circumstances.\n\nStarting with two kindergarten classes and about 50 children in 1998, Hand in Hand had grown by 2011 to three schools with more than 900 children, covering grades levels K-12. Over the years, these three schools have demonstrated some truly outstanding academic achievements, and they will enroll over 1100 students in the fall of 2013. Also this fall, two new kindergartens (Haifa and Tel Aviv/Jaffa) will open; each one has pre-registration of many more students (both Jews and Arabs) than can be accepted in the space available.\n\nDuring 2012, Hand in Hand established active integrated communities of adults to support and amplify the impact of its schools. With core funding from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), Hand in Hand launched communities in all five locations where it will have schools this fall. These communities are engaged in a wide variety of activities: from competing in adult sports leagues (where they may have the only integrated team); to participating in adult education programs focused on learning each other’s language, culture and traditions; to engaging in activities that might be directly tied to a school (such as establishing a vegetable garden tended by parents and children). These activities may not seem very important in themselves, but the fact that they are undertaken in the context of a structured, continuing, and integrated community makes them very special in Israel. Hand in Hand believes that these visibly integrated shared communities will not only help its schools succeed, but will also show the broader public that social inclusion does not end with graduation from high school.\n\nIn the coming years, Hand in Hand plans to expand its two-pronged approach to building support for social inclusion and civic equality in Israeli society:\n\n\nThis is an ambitious but achievable plan. It will require the hard work, steadfast commitment, and good will of thousands of Israeli citizens. It will also require the support of all who care about Israel’s future and who believe that future depends on building a society that includes all citizens on a fair, welcoming and equal basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47290878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47290878", "title": "Image of Chile Foundation", "text": "Image of Chile Foundation\n\nThe Image of Chile Foundation, or Fundación Imagen de Chile in Spanish, is an organization that coordinates work carried out to promote Chile abroad.\n\nThe Foundation is a private nonprofit organization created on 8 May 2009. It is governed by a Board of Directors, which defines its overall policies and courses of action. The board consists of 19 members: the Minister of Foreign Affairs (who presides), the Minister of the Economy, the President of the National Council of Culture and the Arts (\"Consejo Nacional de la Cultura y las Artes\"), and 16 other members elected by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAlthough the Foundation is a private organization, its board of directors is formed and presided over by government ministers, applies and complies with state policies, and is funded by public resources.\n\nIts mission is to “promote the country internationally\" and it carries out this mission by guiding, advising and supporting public and private organizations and individuals whose initiatives aim to enhance and promote the image and reputation of Chile, in an increasingly competitive international context.\n\nThe role of the Foundation is to manage the nation’s brand (\"marca país\"), organizing the work of the main entities that contribute to the country's image, such as culture, sports, exports, investment, tourism and international relations, among others.\n\nIt develops alliances with stakeholders in the public and private sectors, in order to create one unified message about Chile and promote the distinctive attributes of Chile's identity.\n\nPrimary goal\n\nThe main task of the Foundation is to manage the country’s brand, \nincreasing the positive impression Chile makes with other nations. To achieve this, it implements activities designed to strengthen the country’s reputation, highlighting Chile’s distinctive qualities, and speaks on behalf of the public and private sectors to position Chile on the highly competitive global stage. In doing so, the Foundation aims to expand and consolidate opportunities to attract talent, exports, foreign investment, tourism, international relations, social and cultural links, and much more.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5556874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556874", "title": "Information Security Department", "text": "Information Security Department\n\nThe Information Security Department (, \"HaMa'arakh LeVithon Meida\", abbreviated to \"Mahbam\") is a department in the Israel Defense Forces' Directorate of Military Intelligence, responsible for preventing classified information from being compromised by unauthorized elements. It was formerly known as the Field Security Department.\n\nThe Department engages in the study of enemy military intelligence, providing security briefings, securing classified information, and teaching and enforcement activities related to information security. Most of the security breaches that take place are in the area of computing (including the Internet), and the securing of documents. The Department absorbs about 450 new Information Security NCOs annually. Its members serve in all branches of the IDF.\n\n"}
{"id": "21055132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21055132", "title": "International Journal of Government Auditing", "text": "International Journal of Government Auditing\n\nThe International Journal of Government Auditing is published quarterly in Arabic, English, French, German and Spanish. As the official publication of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), the Journal supports cooperation, collaboration and knowledge sharing among Supreme Audit Institutions (SAI) and the broader accountability community.\n\nThe heads of the Supreme Audit Institutions of Austria, Canada, Tunisia, United States of America and Venezuela are the Journal’s Board of Editors, and the U.S. Government Accountability Office publishes the Journal on behalf of INTOSAI through the auspices of the International Journal of Government Auditing, Inc.\n"}
{"id": "4091453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4091453", "title": "Jean-Pierre Bemba", "text": "Jean-Pierre Bemba\n\nJean-Pierre Bemba Gombo (born 4 November 1962) is a politician in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He was one of four vice-presidents in the transitional government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo from 17 July 2003 to December 2006. Bemba also leads the Movement for the Liberation of the Congo (MLC), a rebel group turned political party. He received the second-highest number of votes in the 2006 presidential election. In January 2007 he was elected to the Senate.\n\nHe was arrested near Brussels on 24 May 2008 on an arrest warrant issued by the International Criminal Court. He was originally charged with three counts of crimes against humanity and five counts of war crimes committed by fighters under his command, in October 2010 the ICC reduced the charges to two counts of crimes against humanity and three counts of war crimes.\n\nOn 21 March 2016, he was convicted on these charges. On 21 June 2016, he was imprisoned on an 18-year sentence in landmark conviction at the International Criminal Court (ICC) for war crimes and sexual violence. On 28 September 2016, he appealed his conviction alleging a mistrial and citing errors in the trial chamber's analysis of his superior responsibility. His 2016 war crimes convictions were overturned following an appeal on 8 June 2018; however, in September, he lost his appeal against his conviction for witness tampering. He was released in June 2018, and returned to the DRC, where he was running for President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the 2018 election, where he was considered to be the strongest opposition candidate. However, he could be barred from the election because, under the laws of the DRC, individuals found guilty of corruption are prohibited from running for president. He has stated that he is willing to back another opposition candidate.\n\nBemba was born in Bokada, Nord-Ubangi. His father, Jeannot Bemba Saolona, was a businessman who was successful under Zairian President Mobutu Sese Seko, and one of his sisters is married to Mobutu's son Nzanga, who was also a candidate in the 2006 presidential election.\n\nThe MLC movement started in the Orientale Province of the DRC in 1998 at the beginning of the Second Congo War. Little by little, the movement moved into the Équateur province, and established a permanent base in Gbadolite.\n\nThis region had been decimated by war and the population was living in great poverty. Équateur was under an embargo: healthcare programs, education, and any kind of social assistance had been abandoned. The population was under constant threat of bombing by government forces, and had stopped producing goods or food.\n\nWhen the MLC troops arrived in Gbadolite, they secured the area and protected the population. Health centres and hospitals re-opened with the MLC securing safe passage for medicine and other supplies. The MLC worked with NGOs and the UN to reopen schools, restart agriculture, economic activity and exportations of goods. The population was able to sell coffee, corn and soya and build businesses.\n\nIn 2002, President Ange-Félix Patassé of the Central African Republic invited the MLC to come to his country and put down a coup attempt. Human rights activists accused MLC fighters of committing atrocities against civilians in the course of this conflict.\n\nIn 2003 Bemba became vice-president under a peace deal.\n\nBemba was one of 33 candidates who ran in the Congolese presidential election on 30 July 2006. His main campaign slogan — \"One Hundred Percent Congolese\" — was widely perceived as an attack on frontrunner President Joseph Kabila.\n\nBemba received substantial support in the western, Lingala-speaking portion of the country, including the capital, Kinshasa. Following the vote there was significant tension as to whether Kabila would win a majority of the vote, avoiding a runoff against Bemba, who was perceived as Kabila's main opponent. However, results announced on 20 August gave Kabila 44% of the vote and Bemba 20%, \n\nOn 21 August 2006, while accompanied by 14 ambassadors of CIAT members (International Committee in charge of the Transition), including ambassadors from the United States of America, Britain, France (Bernard Prévost) and Belgium (), and from MONUC, US diplomat William L. Swing, Bemba survived an assassination attempt by the Presidential Guard bombing his residence in Gombe. The ambassadors were forced to seek refuge in a cellar.\nKabila and Bemba faced each other in a second round, held on 29 October. The electoral commission announced the official results on 15 November, naming Kabila the winner with 58.05% of the vote; Bemba's supporters have alleged fraud.\n\nOn 27 November 2006, the Supreme Court of the DRC rejected the fraud charges brought by Bemba, and confirmed Kabila as the new elected Congolese President. A day later, Bemba said that he disagreed with the court's decision, but that \"in the greater national interest and to preserve peace and to save the country from chaos and violence\", he would participate in the system by leading the political opposition. He did not attend Kabila's swearing-in ceremony on 6 December. On 8 December, the MLC announced that Bemba would run for a Senate seat from Kinshasa in the January 2007 senatorial election, and he succeeded in winning a seat.\n\nA further attempt on Bemba's life in March 2007 led to an outbreak of fighting near Bemba's residence. \nA number of soldiers and civilians were reported killed. Bemba called for a ceasefire and negotiations and took refuge in the South African embassy. As fighting continued on 23 March, it was announced that a warrant for Bemba's arrest had been issued, accusing him of high treason. Although Bemba enjoyed immunity as a senator, the country's chief prosecutor said that he would ask parliament to remove it.\n\nOn 26 March, Kabila said that security could not be guaranteed through negotiation and referred to the importance of restoring order. Bemba warned of a potential for dictatorship and forshadowed his retreat into exile, citing security concerns.\n\nLate in the month it was reported that Bemba planned to travel to Portugal for treatment of a broken leg; he had already received treatment for his leg there in previous months. The Portuguese ambassador subsequently said on 30 March that Bemba was expected to go to Portugal for treatment, but was not going into exile there. On 9 April, the Senate approved the trip, for a period of 60 days. On 11 April, Bemba left the South African embassy and was taken to the airport by U.N. MONUC forces, then flown out of the country to Portugal, along with his wife and children. On 12 April, the attorney general, Tshimanga Mukeba, said that he had asked the Senate to remove Bemba's immunity.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of violence in March, Bemba's party, the MLC, said that it was being targeted by the government through arrests and intimidation, and that its headquarters was occupied by government forces. On 13 April, the party suspended its participation in the National Assembly due to this intimidation and insecurity.\n\nIn the first half of June, it was reported that, despite the expiration of the 60 days prescribed by the Senate, Bemba would not return to the DRC due to safety concerns. According to MLC executive secretary , Bemba was medically able to return and take part in politics again, and Luhaka called for a political solution to facilitate his return. Without Senate permission to be absent, he would automatically lose his seat if absent from over a quarter of Senate sessions, unless the absences were justified. On 15 June, the Senate extended Bemba's permitted absence until 31 July, following a request from Bemba in a 12 June letter in asking for more time. In this letter he expressed a readiness to return and take part in politics, but also expressed concerns about his safety.\n\nOn 13 July, Bemba met with Louis Michel, the European Commissioner for Development & Humanitarian Aid. According to Michel, Bemba \"intends to give the presidential majority the benefit of the doubt\" and would not do or say anything \"that could be taken as an attempt at destabilisation\". He did not return by the deadline on 31 July, with a spokesman citing continued security concerns; the Senate was then in recess until 15 September, and Senate President Kengo wa Dondo said that Bemba would not be penalized for being away during this period because the Senate was not in session. In a statement published on 1 August, Bemba said that he wanted to return before 15 September.\n\nIt was announced on 7 September that Bemba had met with National Assembly President Vital Kamerhe in Portugal to discuss his potential return. In November 2007, he visited Belgium and met with Belgian Foreign Minister Karel De Gucht on 5 November.\n\nIn a March 2008 interview, Bemba said that he was in \"forced exile\" and that it seemed the government was moving towards a dictatorship.\n\n In March 2003, Central African president Ange-Félix Patassé was ousted, and the government that replaced him pressed charges against Patassé and Bemba in September 2004. International arrest warrants were issued, but because the new government was unable to have Bemba arrested, the matter was referred to the International Criminal Court (ICC). On 22 May 2007, ICC prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo decided to open investigations into crimes committed in the Central African Republic.\n\nOn 23 May 2008, a pre-trial chamber of the ICC found that there were reasonable grounds to believe that Bemba bore individual criminal responsibility for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in the Central African Republic between 25 October 2002 and 15 March 2003, and issued a sealed warrant for his arrest. He was charged with five counts of war crimes (murder, rape, torture, pillaging, and outrages upon personal dignity) and three counts of crimes against humanity (murder, rape and torture).\n\nOn 24 May 2008, Bemba was arrested near Brussels. He was handed over to the ICC on 3 July 2008 and transferred to its detention centre in the Hague. He was the only person arrested in connection with the ICC's investigation in the Central African Republic. The Supreme Court of the Central African Republic found no basis to pursue cases against Bemba and former CAR President Ange-Félix Patassé.\n\nThe MLC denounced the arrest and requested that Parliament do likewise; it also asked that Parliament call on the Belgian government to respect Bemba's immunity as a senator under Congolese law. MLC official accused ICC prosecutor Moreno-Ocampo of trying \"to interfere with the internal businesses of Congo\", describing such interference as \"unacceptable\"; Sesanga also said that, although the prosecution claimed Bemba was a flight risk, there had been no indication of that. More than 2,000 supporters of Bemba protested in Kinshasa on 27 May, demanding that he be freed.\n\nBemba's defense argued that the legal procedures applied to Bemba's case were irregular, but on 1 July a Belgian court rejected this argument, making it possible to transfer Bemba to the ICC. Meanwhile, MLC official Fyfy Osambia argued that \"the matter has been politicised\" and that people \"close to President Kabila\" were responsible for the complaint against Bemba. He said that Bemba should be allowed to go before the ICC without being a prisoner.\n\nFollowing the Belgian court ruling, Bemba was transferred to the ICC in The Hague on 3 July. In a hearing on 4 July, Bemba made his first appearance at the ICC, and the beginning of a hearing dealing with confirmation of the charges against him was set for 4 November.\n\nOn 15 June 2009, an ICC pre-trial chamber confirmed some of the charges against Bemba and committed him to trial. However, the judges did not find that there was sufficient evidence to try him for torture and outrages upon personal dignity. On 8 July 2009, Bemba was granted a temporary release to attend his father's funeral in Brussels.\n\nOn 2 December 2009 the ICC ruled that Bemba was a flight risk and must remain in custody until his trial.\n\nThe trial of Bemba began on 22 November 2010 and lasted four years. The prosecutor was Fatou Bensouda. Two more years passed before the verdict was given.\n\nOn 21 March 2016, he was convicted on two counts of crimes against humanity and three counts of war crimes. This marked the first time the International Criminal Court (ICC) convicted someone of sexual violence.\n\nOn 21 June 2016, the ICC sentenced Bemba to 18 years in prison for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by his Congolese Liberation Movement (MLC). In March 2017 he was sentenced to an extra year in prison and fined 300,000 euros ($324,000) by the ICC for interfering with witnesses in his trial. \n\nOn 28 September 2016, Bemba served the ICC appeals chamber with an appeal against his 18-year conviction citing numerous procedural and legal errors in the judgment, and alleging a mistrial. This conviction was overturned on 8 June 2018\nby Judge Christine Van den Wyngaert. She said he cannot be held responsible for the actions of his men, and that the lower court \"ignored significant testimonial evidence that Bemba's ability to investigate and punish crimes in the CAR was limited\".\n\nOn 4 May 2017 he had also filed an appeal against his conviction for interfering with witnesses, alleging factual and legal errors on the part of the trial chamber, and illegal investigative activity by the ICC Office of the Prosecutor. On 1 August 2018, Bemba returned to the DRC after 11 years of exile and imprisonment. \n\nOn 1 August 2018, Jean-Pierre Bemba returned to DR Congo from prison to run for president. Bemba is running for President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the 2018 election, and is considered to be the strongest opposition candidate. As of August 2018, his candidacy is being reviewed by the country's Independent National Electoral Commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "41297122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41297122", "title": "Jeong Yol", "text": "Jeong Yol\n\nJeong Yol (; born October 19, 1978) is a South Korean LGBT rights activist. Since the foundation of Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea in 1997, he has been an early member of SLRK. From 1998 to 2012, he had been a representative of SLRK. His real name is Jeong Min-suk (정민석).\n\nDuring the college time, he acknowledged that himself was gay. Later, while serving his mandatory military service, he came out as a homosexual. Then, his commanding officer took him to a mental hospital. After his discharge, he worked as a pastry chef for six years.\n\nIn 1997, he joined SLRK. In 2000, he spent more time primarily for SLRK, From 2002 to 2012, he has been a representative of SLRK. In February 2003, the word \"homosexual\" was pointed as harmful word for youth by South Korean government. So he struggled against the government with Kwak Yi-kyong, Chang Pyong-kwon and others. In April 2004, banning of word \"homosexual\" for youth was eliminated in South Korea.\n\nIn 2003, he led a movement for the Elimination of Discrimination against LGBT. In 2004, he joined anti-war and peace movements. Since 2006, he has fought for people living with HIV's rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198081", "title": "Ken Ham", "text": "Ken Ham\n\nKenneth Alfred Ham (born 20 October 1951) is an Australian-born Christian fundamentalist and young Earth creationist living in the United States. He is the president of Answers in Genesis (AiG), a creationist apologetics organization that operates the Creation Museum and the Ark Encounter.\n\nHam advocates biblical literalism, believing that the Book of Genesis is historical fact and the universe is approximately 6,000 years old, contrary to multiple individual lines of scientific evidence which show the Earth is about 4.5 billion years old and the universe is about 13.8 billion years old.\n\nHam was born 20 October 1951 in Cairns, Australia. His father, Mervyn, was a Christian educator who served as a school principal in several schools throughout Queensland.\n\nHam earned a Bachelor of Applied Science, with an emphasis in Environmental Biology at Queensland Institute of Technology and a Diploma in Education from the University of Queensland. While at university, he was influenced by John C. Whitcomb and Henry M. Morris's 1961 book \"\". Upon graduation in 1975, Ham began teaching science at a high school in Dalby, Queensland.\n\nIn 1977, Ham began teaching at a high school in Brisbane where he met John Mackay, another teacher who believed in young Earth creationism. According to Susan and William Trollinger, Ham was \"appalled by the fact that some of his students assumed their textbooks that taught evolutionary science successfully proved the Bible to be untrue,\" and he said the experience \"put a 'fire in my bones' to do something about the influence that evolutionary thinking was having on students and the public as a whole.\" In 1979, he resigned his teaching position and, with his wife, founded Creation Science Supplies and Creation Science Educational Media Services, which provided resources for the teaching of creationism in the public schools of Queensland, a practice allowed at the time. In 1980, the Hams and Mackay merged the two organizations with Carl Wieland's Creation Science Association to form the Creation Science Foundation (CSF).\n\nAs CSF's work expanded, Ham moved to the United States in January 1987 to engage in speaking tours with another young Earth creationist organization, the Institute for Creation Research (ICR). His \"Back to Genesis\" lecture series focused on three major themes – that evolutionary theory had led to cultural decay, that a literal reading of the first eleven chapters of the Book of Genesis contained the true origin of the universe and a pattern for society, and that Christians should engage in a culture war against atheism and humanism. With his popularity growing in the United States, Ham left ICR in 1994 and, with colleagues Mark Looy and Mike Zovath, founded Creation Science Ministries with the assistance of what is now Creation Ministries International (Australia). In 1997, Ham's organization changed its name to Answers in Genesis.\n\nFrom the time AiG was founded, Ham planned to open a museum and training center near its headquarters in Florence, Kentucky, telling an Australian Broadcasting Corporation interviewer in 2007, \"Australia's not really the place to build such a facility if you're going to reach the world. Really, America is.\" In a separate interview with \"The Sydney Morning Herald\"'s Paul Sheehan, Ham explained, \"One of the main reasons [AiG] moved [to Florence] was because we are within one hour's flight of 69 percent of America's population.\" The museum, located in Petersburg, Kentucky, west of the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, opened 27 May 2007.\n\nIn February 2018, Ham was disinvited from the University of Central Oklahoma, where he was scheduled to speak, after an LGBTQ student group objected. Later that month, UCO reinvited Ham to speak, and Ham spoke on March 5 as planned.\n\nAt the end of 2005, the AiG Confederation crumbled due to a disagreement between Ham and Carl Wieland over the \"differences in philosophy and operation\". This disagreement led to Ham effectively retaining the leadership of the UK and American branches whilst Wieland served as managing director of the Australian branch and the smaller offices in Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa. This splitting into two groups led to the Australian branch renaming themselves Creation Ministries International (CMI). The AiG stayed with Ham and continued to expand its staff and work closely with the Institute for Creation Research (ICR). Young Earth creationist Kurt Wise was recruited by Ham as a consultant to help with the concluding phases of the museum project.\n\nIn May 2007, Creation Ministries International (CMI) filed a lawsuit against Ham and AiG in the Supreme Court of Queensland seeking damages and accusing him of deceptive conduct in his dealings with the Australian organization. Members of the group expressed \"concern over Mr. Ham's domination of the groups, the amount of money being spent on his fellow executives and a shift away from delivering the creationist message to raising donations.\" Ham was accused of trying to send the Australian ministry into bankruptcy. According to the CMI website, this dispute was amicably settled in April 2009. In 2008, Ham appeared in Bill Maher's comedy-documentary \"Religulous\". AiG criticized the movie for what it called Maher's \"dishonesty last year in gaining access to the Creation Museum and AiG President Ken Ham.\"\n\nIn March 2011, the board of Great Homeschool Conventions, Inc. (GHC) voted to disinvite Ham and AiG from future conventions. Conference organizer Brennan Dean stated Ham had made \"unnecessary, ungodly, and mean-spirited statements that are divisive at best and defamatory at worst\". Dean stated further, \"We believe Christian scholars should be heard without the fear of ostracism or ad hominem attacks.\" The disinvitation occurred after Ham criticized Peter Enns of The BioLogos Foundation, who advocated a symbolic, rather than literal, interpretation of the fall of Adam and Eve. Ham accused Enns of espousing \"outright liberal theology that totally undermines the authority of the Word of God\".\n\nIn February 2014, Ham debated American science educator and engineer Bill Nye (popularly known as \"Bill Nye the Science Guy\") on the topic of whether young Earth creationism is a viable model of origins in the contemporary scientific era. Critics expressed concern that the debate lent the appearance of scientific legitimacy to creationism while also stimulating Ham's fundraising. Nye said the debate was \"an opportunity to expose the well-intending Ken Ham and the support he receives from his followers as being bad for Kentucky, bad for science education, bad for the U.S., and thereby bad for humankind.\"\n\nHam said that publicity generated by the debate helped stimulate construction of the Ark Encounter theme park, which had been stalled for lack of funds. The Ark Encounter opened on 7 July 2016, a date (7/7) chosen to correspond with Genesis 7:7, the Bible verse that describes Noah entering the ark. The following day, Nye visited Ark Encounter, and he and Ham had an informal debate.\n\nAccording to Ham, he was inspired by his father, also a young Earth creationist, to interpret the Book of Genesis as \"literal history\" and first rejected what he termed \"molecules-to-man evolution\" during high school.\n\nAs a young Earth creationist and biblical inerrantist, Ham believes that the Book of Genesis is historical fact. Ham believes the age of the Universe to be about 6,000 years and asserts that Noah's flood occurred about 4,400 years ago in approximately 2348 BC. (Astrophysical measurements and radiometric dating show that the age of the universe is about 13.8 billion years and the age of the Earth is about 4.5 billion years.) Arguing that knowledge of evolution and the Big Bang require observation rather than inference, Ham urges asking scientists and science educators, \"Were you there?\" The Talk.origins archive responds that the evidence for evolution \"was there,\" and that knowledge serves to determine what occurred in the past and when. \"Were you there?\" questions also invalidate creationism as science—an argument with which Ham himself agrees.\n\nChris Mooney, of \"Slate\" magazine, believes Ham's advocacy of Young Earth Creation will \"undermine science education and U.S. science literacy.\" But Andrew O'Hehir of \"Salon\" argues that the \"liberal intelligentsia\" have grossly overstated the influence of Ken Ham and those espousing similar views because, while \"religious ecstasy, however nonsensical, is powerful in a way reason and logic are not,\" advocates like Ham \"represent a marginalized constituency with little power.\"\n\nHam has been awarded honorary degrees by six Christian colleges: Temple Baptist College (1997), Liberty University (2004), Tennessee Temple University (2010), Mid-Continent University (2012), Bryan College (2017), and Mid-America Baptist Theological Seminary (2018).\n\nHam is married to Marylin Ham; the couple have five children and sixteen grandchildren.\n\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "12878160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12878160", "title": "LGBT rights in Papua New Guinea", "text": "LGBT rights in Papua New Guinea\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Papua New Guinea face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Male same-sex sexual activity is illegal.\n\nAttitudes towards LGBT people are greatly influenced by Christian churches, as a majority of Papua New Guineans are Christian. Historically, gay men had certain societal roles. They would take on traditional female roles such as cooking and would participate with women in traditional festivals. However, some tribes still practice ritual pedophilic homosexuality such as the Etoro people and Sambia people.\n\nNowadays, LGBT people tend to more tolerated and accepted in coastal areas than in the New Guinea Highlands.\n\nThe words \"lesbian\", \"gay\", \"bisexual\" and \"transgender\" tend to carry heavy stigma in Papua New Guinea.\n\nIn recent years, the Tok Pisin word \"palopa\" has been used by transgender Papua New Guineas to refer to a cultural and traditional third gender. Similarly, the Sambia people recognize a traditional third gender: \"kwolu-aatmwol\" (literally \"male thing transforming into female thing\").\n\nMale same-sex sexual activity is prohibited by Section 210 of the Papua New Guinea Penal Code. Those caught engaging in anal sex can get punished with up to fourteen years imprisonment. Other same-sex sexual acts can be punished with up to three years imprisonment. In 2011, the Government informed the United Nations that it will not decriminalise homosexuality.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of State, there were no reports of prosecutions in 2012 directed at LGBT persons. However, the department reported that LGBT persons in 2012 were \"vulnerable to societal stigmatization\".\n\nFormer MP Dame Carol Kidu in 2012 described gay Papua New Guineans as being forced to live lives of secrecy, and called unsuccessfully on the Government to decriminalise homosexuality. Prime Minister Peter O'Neill explained that there were \"strong feelings\" against homosexuality in the country, which was \"yet to accept such sexual openness\".\n\nLGBT persons have reported facing \"discrimination in their daily lives, and often struggle to find jobs\".\n\nThere are a few nightclubs in Port Moresby that have \"gay nights\", mainly in Hanuabada.\n\n\nTribes:\n"}
{"id": "5341408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5341408", "title": "Language politics", "text": "Language politics\n\nLanguage politics is the way language and linguistic differences between peoples are dealt with in the political arena. This could manifest as government recognition, as well as how language is treated in official capacities. Some examples:\n\nLanguage is also utilised in political matters to unify, organise and criticise in order to unify a political group.\n\n"}
{"id": "44806481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44806481", "title": "Leninskyi District, Donetsk", "text": "Leninskyi District, Donetsk\n\nLeninskyi District () is an urban district of Donetsk, Ukraine, named after a Soviet political figure Vladimir Lenin.\n\nIt was created in 1937 as the Factory-Stalin Raion.\n\n"}
{"id": "23100881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23100881", "title": "Little Rock recruiting office shooting", "text": "Little Rock recruiting office shooting\n\nThe 2009 Little Rock recruiting office shooting took place on June 1, 2009, when the American Abdulhakim Mujahid Muhammad, born Carlos Leon Bledsoe, opened fire with a rifle in a drive-by shooting on soldiers in front of a United States military recruiting office in Little Rock, Arkansas. He killed Private William Long and wounded Private Quinton Ezeagwula.\n\nAfter his arrest, Muhammad acknowledged shooting the men. He told police that he had intended to kill as many Army personnel as possible. He had an SKS rifle, a Mossberg International 702 rifle, two handguns, 562 rounds of ammunition, and military books in his car. Muhammad was charged with capital murder, attempted capital murder, and 10 counts of unlawful discharge of a weapon. Muhammad also reportedly faced 15 counts of engaging in a terrorist act.\n\nA convert to Islam, Muhammad had gone to Yemen in 2007 to teach English, staying about 16 months. He was deported from Yemen to the United States, after having overstayed his visa and been detained.\n\nIn January 2010, Muhammad wrote to the judge in his case. He claimed that he was sent on the attacks by Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), and pleaded guilty to the charges of capital murder. He had not consulted with his lawyers, and no independent confirmation of his claim has been made. His father described him as \"unable to process reality\".\n\nThe lead prosecutor for Pulaski County, Arkansas, said about Muhammad's attack, \"If you strip away what he says, self-serving or not, it's just an awful killing, it's like a lot of other killings we have.\"\n\nHis shooting attack was the first of two in 2009 at US military facilities. In the Fort Hood shooting in November, a US Army psychiatrist shot and killed 13 and wounded 29 other soldiers. Although a Senate special report chaired by the Independent Joseph Lieberman declared it \"the deadliest terrorist attack within the United States since September 11, 2001\", Nidal Malik Hasan was charged with murder and was sentenced to death.\n\nThe Arkansas prosecutor took the Muhammad case to trial in 2011. The defense lawyers said that the young man suffered \"a delusional disorder\". During the trial, Muhammad changed his plea to guilty and the prosecutor accepted it. On July 25, 2011, Muhammed was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nAt trial, the suspect was charged by the state with capital murder and related charges, not terrorism. Some terrorism experts have noted a connection to other homegrown terror plots in recent years, including targets, ideological motives, and religious inspiration. Other experts stated that the suspect had personal problems, making him vulnerable to recruitment into a fanatical ideology.\n\nMuhammad drove by the Little Rock U.S. Army recruiting center at 9112 North Rodney Parham Road near Reservoir Road in a black 2003 Ford Explorer Sport Trac at 10:19 a.m. on June 1, 2009. Private William Andrew \"Andy\" Long, 23, of Conway, Arkansas, and Private Quinton I. Ezeagwula, 18, of Jacksonville, Arkansas, were standing outside the recruiting center in uniform, smoking cigarettes. The two victims had completed basic training two weeks prior, and volunteered to work as recruiters, which was not their regular assignment. Muhammad approached them in his vehicle, stopped, and shot them with an SKS rifle.\n\nA witness, Lance P. Luplow, heard approximately seven loud bangs and then saw a black truck with tinted windows speeding away, with its tailgate down spilling bottles of water onto the street. Luplow ran to Long, who had been shot several times and appeared to be dead. Ezeagwula was crawling to the door, holding a bloodied ear. Ezeagwula exclaimed: \"Tell me this isn't real, tell me this isn't real\". Other soldiers came to perform first aid and attempted CPR on Long. Long was dead upon arrival at a hospital. Ezeagwula, who was shot in his back, head, and buttocks, was rushed into surgery at Baptist Hospital in critical condition.\n\nLong's father later remarked: \"They weren't on the battlefield; but apparently, the battlefield's here.\"\n\nIn 2015, the Purple Heart was awarded to those who were shot.\n\nMuhammad drove away from the scene, hoping to reach Memphis, Tennessee, where he intended to switch cars. With police in pursuit, Muhammad got confused in a construction zone and was captured, eight miles from the recruiting center, near the intersection of Interstate 30 and Interstate 630 in Little Rock. He surrendered to Little Rock police officers without incident.\n\nHe was wearing an ammunition belt when he exited his vehicle. He said: \"It's a war going on against Muslims, and that is why I did it\". He used language \"indicating an association with \"jihad\"\", and claimed that he had explosives, but none were found.\n\nHe was found to be in possession of an SKS rifle, a Mossberg International 702 rifle with scope and laser sight, a .22 caliber handgun, a Lorcin L-380 semi-automatic handgun, 562 rounds of ammunition loaded in magazines, homemade sound suppressors, binoculars, a \"suspicious\" package, and two military books. A police search of his apartment turned up Molotov cocktails, homemade sound suppressors, and compact discs labeled in Arabic script.\n\nMuhammad later said he intentionally killed the soldiers, and would have killed more people if more had been there. He said that he did not regard his action as murder, because American military actions in the Middle East justify the slaying of Americans.\n\nLaw enforcement officials said Muhammad had researched various targets around the United States, including military bases, government facilities, and synagogues.\n\nThe suspect, Abdulhakim Mujahid Muhammad, previously known as Carlos Leon Bledsoe, was born on July 9, 1985, in Memphis, Tennessee, to Melvin Bledsoe, a businessman and owner of Blues City Tours in Memphis, TN and his wife Linda. He has a sister Monica. Raised as a Baptist and considered a \"sunny child\", he graduated from Craigmont High School in Memphis in 2003. He attended Tennessee State University in Nashville, Tennessee, for several semesters.\n\nBledsoe converted to Islam in 2004 at Masjid As-Salam, a Memphis mosque. He has said \"I've loved \"jihad\" ever since I became Muslim.\" He became more devout and prayed regularly at the Islamic Center of Nashville, and wore Arab-style clothing. By 2007 he was a deeply religious Muslim and had legally changed his name to Muhammad.\n\nIn 2007, Muhammad traveled to visit Yemen, where he stayed 16 months. He worked as an English teacher and learned how to speak Arabic. While there, in September 2008 he married Reena Abdullah Ahmed Farag, an elementary school teacher from South Yemen.\n\nIn his handwritten letters of May to October 2010, Muhammad claimed to have known people in Yemen who \"showed him around and helped him get started,\" but he refused to identify them for what he referred to as \"security reasons.\" He said he was on several occasions asked to conduct attacks on the United States, but had to refuse, as he did not know how to use explosives. He said he tried to go to Somalia for the necessary training, particularly how to make car bombs. He wrote in 2010, \"[H]ad I got this training my story would have ended a lot differently than it's going to end now. My drive-by would have been a drive-in, with no one escaping the aftermath.\"\n\nMuhammad was arrested at a roadside checkpoint in Yemen on November 14, 2008. He had overstayed his visa, did not have the required government travel permits, and was holding a fraudulent Somali passport. According to his 2010 letters about this period, in his car were books about explosives, literature by Anwar Al-Awlaki (the late cleric in Yemen linked to Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula), and videos and reading material about \"Muslim soldiers in different parts of the world\".\n\nImprisoned for over two months in Yemen, Muhammad said that he was repeatedly interrogated but not subjected to torture. He began his plans for \"jihad\" against the U.S. while he was in prison. James E. Hensley Jr., Muhammad's American lawyer after his arrest in the United States, later said that he was radicalized by Islamic fundamentalists while in prison.\n\nUnder pressure from the United States, Yemen deported Muhammad to the U.S. on January 29, 2008. Because his original plan to travel to Somalia for bomb training had been foiled by his arrest in Yemen, Muhammad said Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) helped him create a new plan of attack. Investigators have not independently confirmed his claims.\n\nMuhammad moved in with his parents in Memphis for several months on his return. He moved to Little Rock, Arkansas, in April, where his father opened an office of his tour bus business (Twin City Tours) to provide a job as a driver for his son and create a chance for him to bring his wife from Yemen.\n\nMuhammad was investigated by the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force when he returned. The Task Force also investigated the suspect's visit to Columbus, Ohio; authorities had monitored some Somali Americans traveling from there to Somalia to \"wage \"jihad\".\"\n\nAccording to Muhammed's seven handwritten letters from May to October 2010, which he sent to \"The Commercial Appeal\" newspaper, he described his planning and activities related to his June 2009 attack. He claimed to have bought several used guns as a way to avoid scrutiny, stockpiled ammunition, practiced target shooting, and bought a .22-caliber rifle at Wal-Mart to determine whether he was being watched.\n\nMuhammad said in his letters that none of his attacks had gone as planned. His initial plan was to kill rabbis and target Zionist organizations, and to attack army recruiting centers. According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, he used Google Maps to plan attacks on recruiting centers in at least five states (including in New York, Atlanta, Louisville, and Philadelphia). He also intended to target Times Square in New York City, Jewish institutions (including in Atlanta), a day-care center, a post office, and a Baptist church.\n\nIn an interview, Muhammad said his \"jihad\" started in Little Rock. He then drove to Nashville and threw a Molotov cocktail at an orthodox rabbi's house, but the device failed to detonate. He drove to an Army recruiting center in Florence, Kentucky, because it was close to the highway and near the Ohio border. But the center was closed. He then returned to Little Rock, where he shot the soldiers at the recruiting station.\n\nHe was indicted on one count of capital murder and 15 counts of terrorist acts.\n\nIn a March 2011 Congressional hearing addressing the issue of domestic radicalization of Muslims, Muhammad's father spoke of his son's descent into extremism. Bledsoe described his son's religious conversion and travels to Yemen, where he had been \"trained and programmed\" to kill. Bledsoe said, \"Our children are in danger,\" and that, \"It seems to me that Americans are sitting around doing nothing about radical extremists. This is a big elephant in the room.\" On an earlier occasion, Bledsoe had said, \"If it can happen to my son, it can happen to anyone's son.\"\n\nMuhammad was charged by the state of Arkansas with capital murder, attempted capital murder, and 10 counts of unlawful discharge of a weapon. Prosecutors sought the death penalty.\n\nHe was held in the Pulaski County Detention Center, awaiting a scheduled February 2011 jury trial. In January 2010, Arkansas Judge Herbert Wright ordered the State's Public Defenders Commission to pay part of the bill for Muhammad's private attorney. That same month, in a two-page, handwritten letter to the judge in his case, Muhammad changed his plea to guilty. He claimed to be a \"soldier in Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula\" (AQAP), and described the recruiting office shooting as a \"Jihadi attack.\" He said he was part of Abu Basir's Army, a reference to Naser Abdel-Karim al-Wahishi, the AQAP leader in Yemen. Muhammad affirmed that his sanity was intact, and that he was acting of his own volition in changing his plea.\n\nAt the time the County Prosecutor Jegley said that he was still intending to go to trial; he would have had to recommend that Muhammed's plea be accepted for the court to do so. He said he was not going to have the defendant determine the course of the trial.\n\nMuhammad wrote at the time, \"I wasn't insane or post-traumatic, nor was I forced to do this Act. The attack was justified according to Islamic Laws and the Islamic Religion. \"Jihad\"—to fight those who wage war on Islam and Muslims.\" Muhammad did not discuss his change in plea with his lawyers ahead of time.\n\nDiscussing his claim of affiliation with the Al-Qaeda group in Yemen led by al-Awlaki (killed in September 2011) and al-Wahishi, he wrote in his letters of May to October 2010:\n\nFar as Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula ... yes, I'm affiliated with them. ... Our goal is to rid the Islamic world of idols and idolaters, paganism and pagans, infidelity and infidels, hypocrisy and hypocrites, apostasy and apostates, democracy and democrats, and relaunch the Islamic caliphate ... and to establish Islamic law (Shari'ah).\n\nMuhammad's father Melvin Bledsoe said he doubted whether his son had any such ties. Bledsoe described his son as \"unable to process reality\" and being so \"brainwashed\" that he wanted to be convicted of terrorism and executed, thus becoming a martyr.\n\nThe lead prosecutor for Pulaski County, Arkansas, believed Muhammad acted alone, as did other law enforcement officials: \"If you strip away what he says, self-serving or not, it's just an awful killing, it's like a lot of other killings we have.\" They and his father Melvin Bledsoe said there was no evidence Muhammad was ever in contact with Anwar al-Awlaki.\n\nIn June 2010, Muhammad was charged with assaulting an inmate with a weapon fashioned out of eyeglasses, after a similar attack on a jail officer in April.\n\nBoth the prosecutor and Muhammad's lawyers wanted to go to trial, which finally started in 2011. His lawyers defended him on the grounds that he suffered \"a delusional disorder.\" During the trial, Muhammad changed his plea to guilty. On July 25, 2011, the judge sentenced Muhammed to life in prison.\n\nThe suspect was noted in early press accounts as among recent Muslim converts planning or carrying out violent attacks that security experts called a disturbing new domestic trend. The attack came less than two weeks after a foiled bomb plot on two synagogues in Riverdale, New York, led by four men with records of incarceration, drug abuse and mental illness. Although the four men were originally identified by some sources as having converted to Islam in prison or shortly after their incarcerations, the \"New York Times\" reported that their religious affiliation was uncertain, and they had never served together in prison. Two had registered as Baptist and one as Catholic in earlier prison terms; one said he had converted to Islam and another listed no religion. They had no ties to any international terrorist organization.\n\n\"The New York Times\" noted of Muhammad's alleged ties to Al-Qaeda, \"If evidence emerges that his claim is true, it will give the June 1, 2009, shooting in Little Rock new significance at a time when Yemen is being more closely scrutinized as a source of terrorist plots against the United States.\" No additional evidence at trial has confirmed Muhammed's claims and he was not charged with terrorism.\n\nSome terrorism experts thought there was a connection in Muhammed's case to other homegrown terror plots in recent years, including targets, ideological motives and religious inspiration. Neil Livingstone, a terrorism consultant, said that people on the margins of society are \"easy marks\" for recruiters offering them ideological and fanatical religious justifications for violence, noting \"Most of these guys — I think what it comes down to — they're misfits, they believe they've suffered injustice. ... They basically are striking back at society.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38269417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38269417", "title": "Michael G. Kagan", "text": "Michael G. Kagan\n\nMichael Kagan is an American academic and immigrant rights lawyer. He is Professor of Law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He is Director of the UNLV Immigration Clinic, which specializes in deportation defense, including of unaccompanied children.\n\nKagan played a leading role in the establishment of refugee legal aid programs that assist asylum-seekers applying for refugee status determination through the UN refugee agency. He helped to found or develop Africa Middle East Refugee Assistance (AMERA) in Egypt, and Asylum Access, which is based in the United States. He also became a leading campaigner for reforms in the way the UN conducts refugee status determination, and started the website RSDWatch.org. \nKagan completed his law degree at the University of Michigan.\n"}
{"id": "2148128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2148128", "title": "National Republican Greek League", "text": "National Republican Greek League\n\nThe National Republican Greek League or EDES ( (ΕΔΕΣ), \"Ethnikos Dimokratikos Ellinikos Syndesmos\") was one of the major resistance groups formed during the Axis Occupation of Greece during World War II.\n\nThe largest of the non-communist resistance groups, its military wing, the National Groups of Greek Guerrillas (Εθνικές Ομάδες Ελλήνων Ανταρτών \"Ethnikes Omades Ellinon Andarton\", ΕΟΕΑ) concentrated its military activities in Epirus. From 1943 onwards, EDES came into confrontation with the communist-led National Liberation Front, beginning a series of civil conflicts that would lead to the Greek Civil War.\n\nThe National Republican Greek League was founded on 9 September 1941 by a former army officer, Colonel Napoleon Zervas, a centrist who had been expelled from the army after the failed pro-Venizelist coup d'état of 1935, and two of his friends, Leonidas Spais and Ilias Stamatopoulos.\n\nLike many other resistance movements founded during that time, the political orientation of the National Republican Greek League was Republican, with a strong dislike towards the exiled king, George II, and featured some vague leftist-socialist tendencies. In the aftermath of the four-year right-wing Metaxas dictatorship, which was strongly supported by the king, the monarchy was almost universally rejected, while social ideals for \"social fairness\" became the vogue among the various resistance groups.\n\nThe founding charter of EDES explicitly demanded the \"establishment in Greece of a Republican regime, of Socialist form\", the \"revelation [...] of the treason of former King George II and the gang of the 4th of August Dictatorship\", calling for a thorough cleansing of the state and Greek social and public life from anyone \"who has not proven a National Republican [and] socialist conscience through actions\". The charter acknowledged the prominent exiled Venizelist general Nikolaos Plastiras as its nominal political head, but due to his exile in France they failed to take his consent beforehand. For the time being, no reference to armed opposition against the occupying forces was made in the text.\n\nOn the same day, Komninos Pyromaglou, a friend and assistant of Plastiras, left Nice, where Plastiras resided, for Greece. He was authorize by the general to form, on his behalf, a republican organization with socialist content\", and prepare to turn both \"against the Occupier\" and against a return of the monarchy. After his arrival in Athens on 23 September, Pyromaglou came into contact with Republican circles, and after contacting Zervas took EDES' command. In October, a five-member Executive Committee was founded, with Pyromaglou as Plastiras' representative as General Secretary and Zervas as a simple member.\n\nAs the organization grew, it succeeded in establishing links with the British Headquarters in Cairo, with a view to receiving funds, weapons and guidance. Under British pressure which at the time strongly supported the Greek monarchy, Zervas was forced to send a statement of loyalty to King George II in March 1942. This marked a silent breach with the vitriolic anti-monarchist attacks of the past months, and marked EDES's slow slide towards a more pro-monarchist stance.\n\nLike most similar groups, EDES was initially limited to Athens. Having the support of many prominent Venizelist and Republican military figures, EDES came into contact with EAM and tried to establish some form of cooperation. The negotiations failed over the demands of the Communists for a merger of EDES with EAM and their distrust of Zervas' pro-British attitudes.\n\nOn 23 July 1942, after intense British pressure and more than a month after the official appearance of the military wing of EAM, the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS), Zervas, accompanied by Pyromaglou and a handful of companions, set out for the Valtos Mountains in Aetolia-Acarnania, an area with long traditions of guerrilla warfare stretching back to the Ottoman period. From then and until the end of the Occupation, Epirus would be the primary area of operations of the EDES \"andartes\".\n\nSupported by British parachute drops, EDES quickly gathered some 100 fighters. The first major operation of EDES was \"Operation Harling\", the destruction of the Gorgopotamos viaduct by a joint force of British SOE commandos, and EDES and ELAS forces. While the successful operation, one of the greatest sabotage acts in occupied Europe, greatly boosted the prestige of the nascent Resistance, it also caused a significant rift between EDES and ELAS: the British loudly proclaimed and lauded Zervas' role in the operation, while ignoring the contribution – numerically far greater – of the leftist ELAS forces. While the rift was healed by British mediation, it presaged the problems that would appear in the future.\n\n1942\n1943\n1944\n\nThe left wing Greek People's Liberation Army on various occasions accused its rival organizations, and particularly EDES, for collaboration with the occupation forces. However, this accusation was as yet unfounded, at least concerning EDES' guerilla branch. Moreover, during the armed conflicts between ELAS and EDES in Athens, a propaganda war was launched with ELAS accusing EDES of collaboration, mainly due to gaining plausibility from the explicit exemption of EDES from German propaganda attacks. EDES was accusing ELAS for soviet perspective and crimes against non communists.\n\nOn the other hand, Stylianos Gonatas, initially a political leader of EDES in Athens, won the peculiar enmity of the organization because he supported the collaborationist Security Battalions and encouraged young officers to join their ranks, which led to hostility of the EAM groups towards him. The 12th Army of Nazi Germany attempted for a short time to coopt the EDES forces, and to use them against the ELAS, but this attempt failed and in July 1944 the EDES launched new attacks.\n\nThese internal conflicts caused rivalry between resistance groups and eventually escalated into civil war. In October 1943, ELAS launched an attack on EDES. These attacks triggered a civil war that would last until February 1944. After that, a fragile truce was established, which lasted until December, two months after the Liberation. Then, while the ELAS of Athens attempted to overthrow the government, other units stormed the EDES positions in Epirus. The latter was defeated and the remaining forces were evacuated to Corfu. After the defeat of the ELAS in Athens (January 1945), EDES forces returned to Epirus, where part of them got involved to the expulsion of the Cham Albanians.\n\n"}
{"id": "112554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=112554", "title": "New Harmony, Indiana", "text": "New Harmony, Indiana\n\nNew Harmony is a historic town on the Wabash River in Harmony Township, Posey County, Indiana. It lies north of Mount Vernon, the county seat, and is part of the Evansville metropolitan area. The town's population was 789 at the 2010 census.\n\nEstablished by the Harmony Society in 1814 under the leadership of George Rapp, the town was originally known as Harmony (also called Harmonie, or New Harmony). In its early years the settlement was the home of Lutherans who had separated from the official church in the Duchy of Württemberg and immigrated to the United States. The Harmonists built a new town in the wilderness, but in 1824 they decided to sell their property and return to Pennsylvania. Robert Owen, a Welsh industrialist and social reformer, purchased the town in 1825 with the intention of creating a new utopian community and renamed it New Harmony. While the Owenite social experiment was an economic failure two years after it began, the community made some important contributions to American society.\n\nNew Harmony became known as a center for advances in education and scientific research. Town residents established the first free library, a civic drama club, and a public school system open to men and women. Its prominent citizens included Owen's sons: Robert Dale Owen, an Indiana congressman and social reformer who sponsored legislation to create the Smithsonian Institution; David Dale Owen, a noted state and federal geologist; William Owen, a New Harmony businessman; and Richard Owen, Indiana state geologist, Indiana University professor, and first president of Purdue University. The town also served as the second headquarters of the U.S. Geological Survey. Numerous scientists and educators contributed to New Harmony’s intellectual community, including William Maclure, Marie Louise Duclos Fretageot, Thomas Say, Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, Joseph Neef, Frances Wright, and others.\n\nMany of the town's old Harmonist buildings have been restored. These structures, along with others related to the Owenite community, are included in the New Harmony Historic District. Contemporary additions to the town include the Roofless Church and Atheneum. The New Harmony State Memorial is located south of town on State Road 69 in Harmonie State Park.\n\nThe town of Harmony was founded by the Harmony Society in 1814 under the leadership of German immigrant George Rapp (born Johann Georg Rapp). It was the second of three towns built by the pietist, communal religious group, known as Harmonists, Harmonites, or Rappites. The Harmonists settled in the Indiana Territory after leaving Harmony, Pennsylvania, where westward expansion, the area's rising population, jealous neighbors, and the increasing cost of land threatened the Society's desire for isolation.\n\nIn April 1814 Anna Mayrisch, John L. Baker, and Ludwick Shirver (Ludwig Schreiber) traveled west in search of a new location for their congregation, one that would have fertile soil and access to a navigable waterway. By May 10 the men had found suitable land along the Wabash River in the Indiana Territory and made an initial purchase of approximately . Rapp wrote on May10, \"The place is 25 miles from the Ohio mouth of the Wabash, and 12 miles from where the Ohio makes its curve first before the mouth. The town will be located about 1/4 mile from the river above on the channel on a plane as level as the floor of a room, perhaps a good quarter mile from the hill which lies suitable for a vineyard.\" Although Rapp expressed concern that the town's location lacked a waterworks, the area provided an opportunity for expansion and access to markets through the nearby rivers, causing him to remark, \"In short, the place has all the advantages which one could wish, if a steam engine meanwhile supplies what is lacking.\"\n\nThe first Harmonists left Pennsylvania in June 1814 and traveled by flatboat to their new land in the Indiana Territory. In May 1815 the last of the Harmonists who had remained behind until the sale of their town in Pennsylvania was completed departed for their new town along the Wabash River. Frederick Reichert Rapp, George Rapp's adopted son, drew up the town plan for their new village at Harmony, Indiana, which surveyors laid out on August8, 1814. By 1816, the same year that Indiana became a state, the Harmonists had acquired of land, built 160 homes and other buildings, and cleared for their new town. The settlement also began to attract new arrivals, including emigrants from Germany such as members of Rapp's congregation from Wurttemberg, many of whom expected the Harmonists to pay for their passage to America. However, the new arrivals \"were more of a liability than an asset\". On March 20, 1819, Rapp commented, \"It is astonishing how much trouble the people who have arrived here have made, for they have no morals and do not know what it means to live a moral and well-mannered life, not to speak of true Christianity, of denying the world or yourself.\"\n\nVisitors to Harmony commented on the commercial and industrial work being done in this religious settlement along the Wabash River. \"It seemed as though I found myself in the midst of Germany,\" noted one visitor. In 1819 the town had a steam-operated wool carding and spinning factory, a horse-drawn and human-powered threshing machine, a brewery, distillery, vineyards, and a winery. The property included an orderly town, \"laid out in a square\", with a church, school, store, dwellings for residents, and streets to create \"the most beautiful city of western America, because everything is built in the most perfect symmetry\". Other visitors were not as impressed: \"hard labor & coarse fare appears to be the lot of all except the family of Rapp, he lives in a large & handsome brick house while the rest inhabit small log cabins. How so numerous a population are kept quietly & tamely in absolute servitude it is hard to conceive—the women I believe do more labor in the field than the men, as large numbers of the latter are engaged in different branches of manufactures.\" Although they were not paid for their work, the 1820 manufacturer's census reported that 75 men, 12 women, and 30 children were employed, in the Society's tanneries, saw and grain mills, and woolen and cotton mills. Manufactured goods included cotton, flannel, and wool cloth, yarn, knit goods, tin ware, rope, beer, peach brandy, whiskey, wine, wagons, carts, plows, flour, beef, pork, butter, leather, and leather goods.\n\nThe Harmonist community continued to thrive during the 1820s, but correspondence from March 6, 1824, between Rapp and his adopted son, Frederick, indicates that the Harmonists planned to sell their Indiana property and were already looking for a new location. In May, a decade after their arrival in Indiana, the Harmonists purchased land along the Ohio River eighteen miles from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and were making arrangements to advertise the sale of their property in Indiana. The move, although it was made primarily for religious reasons, would provide the Harmonists with easier access to eastern markets and a place where they could live more peacefully with others who shared their German language and culture. On May 24, 1824, a group of Harmonists boarded a steamboat and departed Indiana, bound for Pennsylvania, where they founded the community of Economy, the present-day town of Ambridge. In May 1825 the last Harmonists left Indiana after the sale of their of property, which included the land and buildings, to Robert Owen for $150,000. Owen hoped to establish a new community on the Indiana frontier, one that would serve as a model community for communal living and social reform.\n\nRobert Owen was a social reformer and wealthy industrialist who made his fortune from textile mills in New Lanark, Scotland. Owen, his twenty-two-year-old son, William, and his Scottish friend Donald McDonald sailed to the United States in 1824 to purchase a site to implement Owen's vision for \"a New Moral World\" of happiness, enlightenment, and prosperity through education, science, technology, and communal living. Owen believed his utopian community would create a \"superior social, intellectual and physical environment\" based on his ideals of social reform. Owen was motivated to buy the town in order to prove his theories were viable and to correct the troubles that were affecting his mill-town community New Lanark. The ready-built town of Harmony, Indiana, fitted Owen's needs. In January 1825 he signed the agreement to purchase the town, renamed it New Harmony, and invited \"any and all\" to join him there. While many of the town's new arrivals had a sincere interest in making it a success, the experiment also attracted \"crackpots, free-loaders, and adventurers whose presence in the town made success unlikely.\" William Owen, who remained in New Harmony while his father returned east to recruit new residents, also expressed concern in his diary entry, dated March24, 1825: \"I doubt whether those who have been comfortable and content in their old mode of life, will find an increase of enjoyment when they come here. How long it will require to accustom themselves to their new mode of living, I am unable to determine.\"\n\nWhen Robert Owen returned to New Harmony in April 1825 he found seven hundred to eight hundred residents and a \"chaotic\" situation, much in need of leadership. By May 1825 the community had adopted the \"Constitution of the Preliminary Society,\" which loosely outlined its expectations and government. Under the preliminary constitution, members would provide their own household goods and invest their capital at interest in an enterprise that would promote independence and social equality. Members would render services to the community in exchange for credit at the town's store, but those who did not want to work could purchase credit at the store with cash payments made in advance. In addition, the town would be governed by a committee of four members chosen by Owen and the community would elect three additional members. In June, Robert Owen left William in New Harmony while he traveled east to continue promoting his model community and returned to Scotland, where he sold his interests in the New Lanark textile mills and arranged financial support for his wife and two daughters, who chose to remain in Scotland. Owen's four sons, Robert Dale, William, David Dale, and Richard, and a daughter, Jane Dale, later settled in New Harmony.\n\nWhile Owen was away recruiting new residents for New Harmony, a number of factors that led to an early breakup of the socialist community had already begun. Members grumbled about inequity in credits between workers and non-workers. In addition, the town soon became overcrowded, lacked sufficient housing, and was unable to produce enough to become self-sufficient, although they still had \"high hopes for the future.\" Owen spent only a few months at New Harmony, where a shortage of skilled craftsmen and laborers along with inadequate and inexperienced supervision and management contributed to its eventual failure.\n\nDespite the community's shortcomings, Owen was a passionate promoter of his vision for New Harmony. While visiting Philadelphia, Owen met Marie Louise Duclos Fretageot, a Pestalozzian educator, and persuaded her to join him in Indiana. Fretageot encouraged William Maclure, a scientist and fellow educator, to become a part of the venture. (Maclure became Owen’s financial partner.) On January 26, 1826, Fretegeot, Maclure, and a number of their colleagues, including Thomas Say, Josef Neef, Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, and others aboard the keelboat \"Philanthropist\" (also called the \"Boatload of Knowledge\"), arrived in New Harmony to help Owen establish his new experiment in socialism.\n\nOn February 5, 1826, the town adopted a new constitution, \"The New Harmony Community of Equality\", whose objective was to achieve happiness based on principles of equal rights and equality of duties. Cooperation, common property, economic benefit, freedom of speech and action, kindness and courtesy, order, preservation of health, acquisition of knowledge, and obedience to the country's laws were included as part of the constitution. The constitution laid out the life of a citizen in New Harmony based on age. Children from the age of one to five were to be cared for and encouraged to exercise; children aged six to nine they were to be lightly employed and given education via observation directed by skilled teachers. Youth from the ages of ten to twelve were to help in the houses and with the gardening. Teenagers from the age of twelve to fifteen were to receive technical training, and from fifteen to twenty their education was to be continued. Young adults from the ages of twenty to thirty were to act as a superintendent in the production and education departments. Adults from the ages of thirty to forty were to govern the homes, and residents aged forty to sixty were to be encouraged to assist with the community's external relations or to travel abroad if they so desired.\n\nAlthough the constitution contained worthy ideals, it did not clearly address how the community would function and was never fully established. Individualist anarchist Josiah Warren, who was one of the original participants in the New Harmony Society, asserted that the community was doomed to failure due to a lack of individual sovereignty and private property. He commented: \"It seemed that the difference of opinion, tastes and purposes increased just in proportion to the demand for conformity. Two years were worn out in this way; at the end of which, I believe that not more than three persons had the least hope of success. Most of the experimenters left in despair of all reforms, and conservatism felt itself confirmed. We had tried every conceivable form of organization and government. We had a world in miniature. --we had enacted the French revolution over again with despairing hearts instead of corpses as a result. ...It appeared that it was nature's own inherent law of diversity that had conquered us ...our 'united interests' were directly at war with the individualities of persons and circumstances and the instinct of self-preservation... and it was evident that just in proportion to the contact of persons or interests, so are concessions and compromises indispensable.\" (\"Periodical Letter II\" 1856).\n\nPart of New Harmony's failings stemmed from three activities that Owen brought from Scotland to America. First, Owen actively attacked established religion, despite United States' constitutional guarantees of religious freedom and the separations of church and state. Second, Owen remained stubbornly attached to the principles of the rationalist Age of Enlightenment, which drove away many of the Jeffersonian farmers Owen tried to attract. Thirdly, Owen consistently appealed to the upper class for donations, but found that the strategy was not as effective as it had been in Europe.\n\nRobert Dale Owen wrote that the members of the failed socialist experiment at New Harmony were \"a heterogeneous collection of radicals, enthusiastic devotees to principle, honest latitudinarians, and lazy theorists, with a sprinkling of unprincipled sharpers thrown in,\" and that \"a plan which remunerates all alike, will, in the present condition of society, ultimately eliminate from a co-operative association the skilled, efficient and industrious members, leaving an ineffective and sluggish residue, in whose hands the experiment will fail, both socially and pecuniarily.\" However, he still thought that \"co-operation \"is\" a chief agency destined to quiet the clamorous conflicts between capital and labour; but then it must be co-operation gradually introduced, prudently managed, as now in England.\" In 1826 splinter groups dissatisfied with the efforts of the larger community broke away from the main group and prompted a reorganization.\n\nIn New Harmony work was divided into six departments, each with its own superintendent. These departments included agriculture, manufacturing, domestic economy, general economy, commerce, and literature, science and education. A governing council included the six superintendents and an elected secretary. Despite the new organization and constitution, members continued to leave town. By March 1827, after several other attempts to reorganize, the utopian experiment had failed.\n\nThe larger community, which lasted until 1827, was divided into smaller communities that led further disputes. Individualism replaced socialism in 1828 and New Harmony was dissolved in 1829 due to constant quarrels. The town's parcels of land and property were returned to private use. Owen spent $200,000 of his own funds to purchase New Harmony property and pay off the community’s debts. His sons, Robert Dale and William, gave up their shares of the New Lanark mills in exchange for shares in New Harmony. Later, Owen \"conveyed the entire New Harmony property to his sons in return for an annuity of $1,500 for the remainder of his life.\" Owen left New Harmony in June 1827 and focused his interests in the United Kingdom. He died in 1858.\n\nAlthough Robert Owen's vision of New Harmony as an advance in social reform was not realized, the town became a scientific center of national significance, especially in the natural sciences, most notably geology.\n\nWilliam Maclure (1763–1840), president of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia from 1817 to 1840, came to New Harmony during the winter of 1825–26. Maclure brought a group of noted artists, educators, and fellow scientists, including naturalists Thomas Say and Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, to New Harmony from Philadelphia aboard the \"Philanthropist\" (also known as the \"Boatload of Knowledge\").\n\nThomas Say (1787–1834), a friend of Maclure, was an entomologist and conchologist. His definitive studies of shells and insects, numerous contributions to scientific journals, and scientific expeditions to Florida, Georgia, the Rocky Mountains, Mexico, and elsewhere made him an internationally known naturalist. Say has been called the father of American descriptive entomology and American conchology. Prior to his arrival at New Harmony, he served as librarian for the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia, curator at the American Philosophical Society, and professor of natural history at the University of Pennsylvania. Say died in New Harmony in 1834.\n\nCharles-Alexandre Lesueur (1778–1846), a naturalist and artist, came to New Harmony aboard the \"Philanthropist\". His sketches of New Harmony provide a visual record of the town during the Owenite period. As a naturalist, Lesueur is known for his classification of Great Lakes fishes. He returned to his native France in 1837. Many species were first described by both Say and Leseuer, and many have been named in their honor.\n\nDavid Dale Owen (1807–1860), third son of Robert Owen, finished his formal education as a medical doctor in 1837. However, after returning to New Harmony, David Dale Owen was influenced by the work of Maclure and Gerard Troost, a Dutch geologist, mineralogist, zoologist, and chemist who arrived in New Harmony in 1825 and later became the state geologist of Tennessee from 1831 to 1850. Owen went on to become a noted geologist. Headquartered at New Harmony, Owen conducted the first official geological survey of Indiana (1837–39). After his appointment as U.S. Geologist in 1839, Owen led federal surveys from 1839 to 1840 and from 1847 to 1851 of the Midwestern United States, which included Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and part of northern Illinois. In 1846 Owen sampled a number of possible building stones for the Smithsonian Institution Building (the Smithsonian \"Castle\") and recommended the distinctive Seneca Creek sandstone of which that building is constructed. The following year, Owen identified a quarry at Bull Run, twenty-three miles from nation’s capital, that provided the stone for the massive building. Owen became the first state geologist of three states: Kentucky (1854–57), Arkansas (1857–59), and Indiana (1837–39 and 1859–60). Owen's museum and laboratory in New Harmony was known as the largest west of the Allegheny Mountains. At the time of Owen's death in 1860, his museum included some 85,000 items. Among Owen's most significant publications is his \"Report of a Geological Survey of Wisconsin, Iowa, and Minnesota and Incidentally of a Portion of Nebraska Territory\" (Philadelphia, 1852).\n\nSeveral men trained Owen's leadership and influence: Benjamin Franklin Shumard, for whom the Shumard oak is named, was appointed state geologist of Texas by Governor Hardin R. Runnels; Amos Henry Worthen was the second state geologist of Illinois and the first curator of the Illinois State Museum; and Fielding Bradford Meek became the first full-time paleontologist in lieu of salary at the Smithsonian Institution. Joseph Granville Norwood, one of David Dale Owen's colleagues and coauthors, also a medical doctor, became the first state geologist of Illinois (1851–1858). From 1851 to 1854, the Illinois State Geological Survey was headquartered in New Harmony.\n\nRichard Owen (1810–1890), Robert Owen's youngest son, came to New Harmony in 1828 and initially taught school there. He assisted his brother, David Dale Owen, with geological survey and became Indiana's second state geologist. During the American Civil War, Colonel Richard Owen was commandant in charge of Confederate prisoners at Camp Morton in Indianapolis. Following his retirement from the U.S. Army in 1864, Owen became a professor of natural sciences at Indiana University in Bloomington, where an academic building is named in his honor. In 1872 Owen became the first president of Purdue University, but resigned from this position in 1874. He continued teaching at IU until his retirement in 1879.\n\nRobert Dale Owen, eldest son of Robert Owen, was a social reformer and intellectual of national importance. At New Harmony, he taught school and co-edited and published the \"New Harmony Gazette\" with Frances Wright. Owen later moved to New York. In 1830 he published \"Moral Philosophy,\" the first treatise in the United States to support birth control, and returned to New Harmony in 1834. From 1836 to 1838, and in 1851, Owen served in the Indiana legislature and was also a delegate to the state's constitutional convention of 1850. Owen was an advocate for women's rights, free public education, and opposed slavery. As a member of the U. S. House of Representatives from 1843 to 1847, Owen introduced a bill in 1846 that established the Smithsonian Institution. He also served as chairman of the Smithsonian Building Committee. He arranged for his brother, David Dale Owen, to sample a large number of possible building stones for the Smithsonian Castle. From 1852 to 1858 Owen held the diplomatic position of charge d'affairs (1853–1858) in Naples, where he began studying spiritualism. Owen's book, \"Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World\" (1860), aroused something of a literary sensation. Among his critics in the \"Boston Investigator\" and at home in the \"New Harmony Advertiser\" were John and Margaret Chappellsmith, he formerly an artist for David Dale Owen's geological publications, and she a former Owenite lecturer. Robert Dales Owen died at Lake George, New York, in 1877.\n\nFrances Wright (1795–1852) came to New Harmony in 1824, where she co-edited and wrote for the \"New Harmony Gazette\" with Robert Dale Owen. In 1825 she established an experimental settlement at Nashoba, Tennessee, that allowed African American slaves to work to gain their freedom, but the community failed. A liberal leader in the \"free-thought movement,\" Wright opposed slavery, advocated woman's suffrage, birth control, and free public education. Wright and Robert Dale Owen moved their newspaper to New York City in 1829 and published it as the \"Free Enquirer\". Wright married William Philquepal d'Arusmont, a Pestalozzian educator she met at New Harmony. The couple also lived in Paris, France, and in Cincinnati, Ohio, where they divorced in 1850. Wright died in Cincinnati in 1852.\n\nThe history of education at New Harmony involves several teachers who were already well-established in their fields before they moved to New Harmony, largely through the efforts of William Maclure. These Pestalozzian educators included Marie Duclos Fretageot and Joseph Neef. By the time Maclure arrived in New Harmony he had already established the first Pestalozzian school in America. Fretageot and Neef had been Pestalozzian educators and school administrators at Maclure’s schools in Pennsylvania.\n\nUnder Maclure's direction and using his philosophy of education, New Harmony schools became the first public schools in the United States open to boys and girls. Maclure also established at New Harmony one of the country's first industrial or trade schools. He also had his extensive library and geological collection shipped to New Harmony from Philadelphia. In 1838 Maclure established The Working Men's Institute, a society for \"mutual instruction\". It includes the oldest continuously operating library in Indiana, as well as a small museum. The vault in the library contains many historic manuscripts, letters, and documents pertaining to the history of New Harmony. Under the terms of his will, Maclure also offered $500 to any club or society of laborers in the United States who established a reading and lecture room with a library of at least 100 books. About 160 libraries in Indiana and Illinois took advantage of his bequest.\n\nMarie Duclos Fretageot managed Pestalozzian schools that Maclure organized in France and Philadelphia before coming to New Harmony aboard the \"Philanthropist\". In New Harmony she was responsible for the infant's school (for children under age five), supervised several young women she had brought with her from Philadelphia, ran a store, and was Maclure's administrator during his residence in Mexico. Fretageot remained in New Harmony until 1831, returned to France, and later joined Maclure in Mexico, where she died in 1833. Correspondence of Maclure and Fretageot from 1820 to 1833 was extensive and is documented in \"Partnership for Posterity.\"\n\nJoseph Neef ( 1770–1854) published in 1808 the first work on educational method to be written in English in the United States, \"Sketch of A Plan and Method of Education.\" Maclure brought Neef, a Pestalozzian educator from Switzerland, to Philadelphia, and placed him in charge of his school for boys. It was the first schooled in the United States to be based on Pestalozzian methods. In 1826 Neef, his wife, and children came to New Harmony to run the schools under Maclure's direction. Neef, following Maclure's curriculum, became superintendent of the schools in New Harmony, where as many as 200 students, ranging in age from five to twelve, were enrolled.\n\nJane Dale Owen Fauntleroy (1806–1861), daughter of Robert Owen, arrived in New Harmony in 1833. She married civil engineer Robert Henry Fauntleroy in 1835. He became a business partner of David Dale and Robert Dale Owen. Jane Owen Fauntleroy established a seminary for young women in her family's New Harmony home, where her brother, David Dale Owen, taught science.\n\nStudents in New Harmony now attend North Posey High School after New Harmony High School closed in 2012.\n\nCornelius Tiebout (c. 1773–1832) was an artist, printer, and engraver of considerable fame when he joined the New Harmony community in September 1826. Tiebout taught printing and published a bimonthly newspaper, \"Disseminator of Useful Knowledge\", and books using the town's printing press. He died in New Harmony in 1832.\n\nPublications from New Harmony's press include William Maclure's \"Essay on the Formation of Rocks, or an Inquiry into the Probably Origin of their Present Form\" (1832); and Maclure's \"Structure\" and \"Observations on the Geology of the West India Islands; from Barbadoes to Santa Cruz, Inclusive\" (1832); Thomas Say's \"Description of New Species of North American Insects; Observations on Some of the Species Already Described\"; \"Descriptions of Some New Terrestrial and Fluviatile Shells of North America\"; and several of the early volumes of Say's \"American Conchology, or Descriptions of the Shells of North America\". (The seventh volume of \"American Conchology\" was published in Philadelphia.)\n\nLucy Sistare Say was an apprentice at Fretageot's Pestalozzian school and a former student of Lesueur in Philadelphia before coming to New Harmony aboard the \"Philanthropist\" to teach needlework and drawing. En route to Indiana, Sistare met Thomas Say and the two were married on January 4, 1827, prior to their arrival at New Harmony. An accomplished artist, Say illustrated and hand-colored 66 of the 68 illustrations in \"American Conchology,\" her husband's multi-volume work on mollusks. Following Thomas Say’s death in 1834, she moved to New York, trained to become an engraver, and worked to complete and publish the final volume of \"American Conchology\". Lucy Say remained interested in the natural sciences after returning to the East. In 1841 she became the first female member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.\n\nPublications on the history of New Harmony include the work of the New Harmony historian and resident, Josephine Mirabella Elliott.\n\nWilliam Owen (1802–1842), Robert Owen's second oldest son, was involved in New Harmony's business and community affairs. He was among the leaders who founded New Harmony's Thespian Society and acted in some of the group's performances. Owen also helped establish the Posey County Agricultural Society and, in 1834, became director of the State Bank of Indiana, Evansville Branch. He died in New Harmony in 1842.\n\nMore than 30 structures from the Harmonist and Owenite utopian communities remain as part of the New Harmony Historic District, which is a National Historic Landmark. In addition, architect Richard Meier designed New Harmony's Atheneum, which serves as the Visitors Center for Historic New Harmony, and depicts the history of the community. Also listed on the National Register of Historic Places\nare the George Bentel House, Ludwig Epple House, Harmony Way Bridge, Mattias Scholle House, and Amon Clarence Thomas House.\n\nNew Harmony is located at (38.128583, −87.934122). The Wabash River forms the western boundary of New Harmony. It is the westernmost settlement in Indiana.\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, New Harmony has a total area of , of which (or 98.46%) is land and (or 1.54%) is water.\n\nThe climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, New Harmony has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated \"Cfa\" on climate maps.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 789 people, 370 households, and 194 families residing in the town. The population density was . There were 464 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the town was 99.0% White, 0.3% Native American, 0.1% Asian, and 0.6% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 370 households of which 17.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 42.7% were married couples living together, 7.3% had a female householder with no husband present, 2.4% had a male householder with no wife present, and 47.6% were non-families. 43.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 23.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 1.93 and the average family size was 2.62.\n\nThe median age in the town was 55.1 years. 13.1% of residents were under the age of 18; 5.7% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 17.3% were from 25 to 44; 30.4% were from 45 to 64; and 33.5% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the town was 43.2% male and 56.8% female.\n\nAs of the 2000 census, there were 916 people, 382 households, and 228 families residing in the town. The population density was 1,441.5 people per square mile (552.6/km²). There were 432 housing units at an average density of 679.8 per square mile (260.6/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 98.91% White, 0.55% Native American, 0.22% Asian, and 0.33% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.44% of the population.\n\nThere were 382 households out of which 27.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.9% were married couples living together, 9.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 40.1% were non-families. 38.0% of all households were made up of individuals and 21.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.12 and the average family size was 2.80.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 20.3% under the age of 18, 4.5% from 18 to 24, 21.2% from 25 to 44, 24.7% from 45 to 64, and 29.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 47 years. For every 100 females, there were 82.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 71.4 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $28,182, and the median income for a family was $40,865. Males had a median income of $39,250 versus $21,607 for females. The per capita income for the town was $17,349. About 12.2% of families and 12.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.8% of those under age 18 and 17.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\nPaul Tillich Park commemorates the renowned twentieth century theologian, Paul Johannes Tillich. The park was dedicated on 2 June 1963, and Tillich's ashes were interred there in 1965.\n\nLocated just across North Main Street from the Roofless Church, the park consists of a stand of evergreens on elevated ground surrounding a walkway. Along the walkway there are several large stones on which are inscribed quotations from Tillich's writings. James Rosati's sculpture of Tillich's head rises at the north end of the walkway, backed by a clearing and a large pond.\n\nThose who walk the Tillich Park Finger Labyrinth, which was created by Reverend Bill Ressl after an inspirational walk through the park, are also invited to ponder the quotations and discern Tillich's systematic theology.\n\nThe town and northern half of Posey County is served by the MSD of North Posey County which currently operates four schools:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14235138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14235138", "title": "Patriotic Society", "text": "Patriotic Society\n\nPatriotic Society () can refer to two Polish organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27003755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27003755", "title": "Protest permit", "text": "Protest permit\n\nA protest permit or parade permit is permission granted by a governmental agency for a demonstration to be held in a particular venue at a particular time. Failing to obtain a permit may lead to charges of parading without a permit. The requirement of a permit is sometimes denounced as an infringement of free speech, as permits are denied on spurious grounds or protestors are corralled into free speech zones. Permits are sometimes denied on grounds that the protest will create a security risk. There seems to be evidence that the available venues for protests are shrinking in number; that citizens have experienced increasing difficulty in gaining unrestricted access to them; and that such venues are no longer where most people typically congregate in large numbers. In Washington, DC, the National Park Service Police, U.S. Capitol Police, and Metropolitan Police of the District of Columbia have an elaborate permitting system. Many famous people such as Martin Luther King, Jr. have been arrested for protesting without a permit.\n\n"}
{"id": "2096447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2096447", "title": "Rail Alphabet", "text": "Rail Alphabet\n\nRail Alphabet is a typeface designed by Jock Kinneir and Margaret Calvert for British Railways. First used at Liverpool Street station, it was then adopted by the Design Research Unit (DRU) as part of their comprehensive 1965 rebranding of the company.\n\nRail Alphabet is similar, but not identical, to a bold weight of Helvetica. It is not quite as similar to Akzidenz Grotesk or Arial. Akzidenz Grotesk had earlier also provided the same designers the broad inspiration for the Transport typeface used for all road signs in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1949 the Railway Executive decided on standard types of signs to be used at all stations. Lettering was to use the Gill Sans typeface on a background of the regional colour. This style persisted for nearly 15 years.\n\nIn the early 1960s, British Rail trialled new signs at Coventry station that made use of Kinnier and Calvert's recently launched Transport typeface. While Transport has since been an enduring success on road signs, it was designed around the specific needs of the roadside environment - such as visibility at speed and in all weathers. The subsequent creation of Rail Alphabet was intended to provide a style of lettering more specifically suited to the station environment, where it would primarily be viewed indoors by pedestrians.\n\nThe DRU's 1965 rebranding of British Railways included a new logo (the double arrow), a shortened name British Rail, and the total adoption of Rail Alphabet for all lettering other than printed matter including station signage, trackside signs, fixed notices, signs inside trains and train liveries.\n\nKey elements of the rebranding were still being used during much of the 1980s and Rail Alphabet was also used as part of the livery of Sealink ships until that company's privatisation in the late 1980s. However, by the end of the 1980s, British Rail's various business units were developing their own individual brands and identities with use of Rail Alphabet declining as a consequence. The typeface remained in near-universal use for signs at railway stations but began to be replaced with alternatives in other areas, such as in InterCity's 1989 Mark 4 passenger carriages which made use of Frutiger for much of their interior signage.\n\nThe privatisation of British Rail from 1994 accelerated the decline in use of the typeface on the railway network with most of the privatised train operating companies who now manage individual stations choosing to use the fonts associated with their own corporate identities for station signs and publicity. More recently, the custom Brunel typeface introduced by Railtrack for signs at major stations and adapted by Network Rail as NR Brunel was recommended as a new national standard for station signs by a 2009 report commissioned by the Secretary of State for Transport, and has since been adopted by South West Trains and East Midlands Trains. Meanwhile, Helvetica Medium has replaced Rail Alphabet as the industry's preferred typeface for safety notices within passenger trains due to the ready availability of the former and for consistency with British Standards on general safety signs.\n\nSome train operators continued use of Rail Alphabet long into the privatisation era. Arriva Trains Wales used the font until the end of the franchise in 2018, with First Great Western also making extensive use of Rail Alphabet for signage until the firm's rebranding to Great Western Railway in 2015. Merseyrail continues to use the typeface for station signage. Its use is also still prescribed for trackside warning signs and safety/operating notices.\n\nThe National Health Service in England, Scotland and Wales adopted Rail Alphabet for its signs. It is still the dominant typeface used on signs in older hospitals. It ceased to be used in new builds in the late 1990s. The NHS now uses Frutiger, while NHS Scotland uses Stone Sans.\n\nRail Alphabet was widely used on signs by the British Airports Authority and by Danish railway company DSB.\n\nIn 2009, a newly digitised version of the typeface was publicly released. Created by Henrik Kubel of A2/SW/HK in close collaboration with Margaret Calvert, New Rail Alphabet features six weights: off white, white, light, medium, bold and black, with non-aligning numerals, corresponding italics and a set of Eastern European characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20298565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20298565", "title": "Richard S. Williamson", "text": "Richard S. Williamson\n\nRichard Salisbury Williamson (May 9, 1949 – December 8, 2013) was an American lawyer, diplomat and political advisor. He previously served as Special Envoy to Sudan under George W. Bush. Williamson was a partner at Winston & Strawn and was also \"Thomas J. Sharkey Distinguished Visiting Scholar\" at Seton Hall's Whitehead School of Diplomacy.\n\nWilliamson was born in Evanston, Illinois. He received an A.B., \"cum laude\", in 1971 from Princeton University. He received a J.D. in 1974 from the University of Virginia School of Law, where he was executive editor of the Virginia Journal of International Law.\n\nWilliamson was also a practicing partner in the law office of Winston and Strawn. Earlier in the George W. Bush Administration, Williamson, who has broad foreign policy and negotiating experience, served as Ambassador to the United Nations for Special Political Affairs \nand in 2004 as United States Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.\nWilliamson played a role in the slow resolution of the conflict in the Darfur region of Sudan.\n\nPreviously, he served in senior foreign policy positions under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, including as Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs at the Department of State, and an Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs in the White House. In 1992, he was nominated by the Republican Party for United States Senate, but lost to Democrat Carol Moseley-Braun, the first black woman to be elected to U.S. Senate. In 1999, he was selected to serve as the Chairman of the Illinois Republican Party.\n\nWilliamson was active in a wide variety of civic organizations, serving on the board of directors of the International Republican Institute; the board of the Committee in Support of Russian Civil Society; a member of the advisory committee for the International Human Rights Center at DePaul University, and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Williamson also was the Roberta Buffett Visiting Professor of International Studies at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.\n\nWilliamson authored seven books and edited three. He wrote more than 175 articles in professional and popular periodicals.\n\nWilliamson died of a cerebral hemorrhage at a Chicago hospital in 2013, aged 64.\n\n"}
{"id": "46263912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46263912", "title": "Réalités (French magazine)", "text": "Réalités (French magazine)\n\nRéalités was a French monthly of the post World War II era which commenced publication in February 1946, flourishing during the \"Trente Glorieuses\", a period of optimism, recovery and prosperity in France after the austerity of Occupation, ceasing in 1978 in France, although the later US edition continued until 1981. Its articles ranged across French culture, economy and politics, and featured profusely illustrated stories of interest to tourists, especially those traveling to French colonies.\n\nThe magazine's founders were entrepreneurs Humbert Frerejean (1914-2001) and Didier Rémon (1922–), the editor Alfred Max, and first artistic director Alfred Brandler, replaced in 1950 by Albert Gilou. They proclaimed an intention to produce a high-class, profusely-illustrated publication which was to be outward-looking, an 'observatory on the world', after the years of Occupation during which information about the rest of the world was restricted. In a mission statement they expressed interest in leading readers to discover \"how the other lives, whether a thousand kilomètres away or close by, how they eat, dress, work, love, entertain\". (\"Comment vit l'autre, à des milleurs de kilomètres ou à proximité, comment il mange, s'habille, travail, aime, s'amuse.\").\n\nIn November 1946 Didier Rémon created \"Société d'études et de publications économiques\" (SEPE) (Society of studies and business publications), registering \"Réalités\" as a press and publishing group, and which from 1960 becomes part of the Hachette group.\n\nFrom 1947 the magazine included a literary supplement, with theatre plays, novels, or topical documents, and other supplements and special issues devoted to visual arts, fashion, business affairs, children and youth, followed.\n\nColourful, slick and glossy, roughly A4 in size (slightly larger than 8 ½” x 11”), and costing 150 francs per issue (approximately the value of $US25-$US30 in 2015), \"Réalités\" catered to the sophisticated and wealthy reader. In its early years at least, on average, 160,000 copies were distributed each month, mostly by subscription. Its content included stories on the economy and politics alongside articles of interest to tourists and on French culture.\n\nThe publisher of Réalités, the \"Société d'études et publications économiques, \"received funding from the 'Mission France' initiative of the Marshall Plan. It therefore also served to promote American culture and political influence in France and Europe, which was prompted by a pervasive American francophilia and perception of France as a frontier against Nazi resurgence and communist influence. Copies were circulated in Hungary and Czechoslovakia. From as early as 1956 the magazine was also issued in the UK in an English language edition; additionally, there was an edition for the United States, 'Réalités in America' (c.1949–1974, later relaunched in January 1979 as 'Réalités' but ceasing publication again in 1981) and in 1971 a Japanese-language version was launched.\n\nPhotography was given central place in the magazine under art director Albert Gilou. In 1949, photographs replaced the hand-drawn illustration which had hitherto appeared on each cover of \"Réalités\". Covers were devoted to photos which would generate surprise, intrigue or mystery, but not shock or horror. All sorts of images were employed but the dominant genre, at least through the early years, was humanist photography, in particular that of staffers Édouard Boubat and Jean-Philippe Charbonnier, espousing the optimistic values of the contemporary exhibition The Family of Man in which both exhibited. An emphasis on photography helped promote the reputation of the publication. Among the photographers (of whom, from 1950, Édouard Boubat, Jean-Philippe Charbonnier, Gilles Ehrmann and Jean-Louis Swiners became salaried employees) were contributors Émile Savitry, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Robert Doisneau, René Burri, Edward Steichen, Robert Capa, William Klein, Richard Avedon, Irving Penn. At first each issue carried sixty pictures in black and white, though the magazine printed colour photographs from 1950. Then, from the mid sixties, most images were in colour, almost exclusively so from the late sixties. Photo essays often extended over twenty pages. Edouard Boubat described the experience of working for Réalités: \n\n\"Réalités\" magazine was most influential between the years 1950 and 1970, employing a journalistic style of long articles associated with pictorial illustration which is now generally replaced by other media. Its last French edition was published in December 1978 with the number 390, and it was then absorbed by Le Spectacle du Monde. The US edition was however relaunched in January 1979, although it only lasted two years.\n"}
{"id": "31454110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31454110", "title": "Sarah Palin email hack", "text": "Sarah Palin email hack\n\nThe Sarah Palin email hack occurred on September 16, 2008, during the 2008 United States presidential election campaign when the Yahoo! personal email account of vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin was subjected to unauthorized access. The hacker, David Kernell, had obtained access to Palin's account by looking up biographical details such as her high school and birthdate and using Yahoo!'s account recovery for forgotten passwords. Kernell then posted several pages of Palin's email on 4chan's /b/ board. Kernell, who at the time of the offense was a 20-year-old college student, was the son of longtime Democratic state representative Mike Kernell of Memphis.\n\nHe was charged in October 2008 in federal court. After he was led into the court in leg irons and handcuffs, the judge released him on his own recognizance, pending trial. The incident was ultimately prosecuted in a U.S. federal court as four felony crimes punishable by up to 50 years in federal prison. The charges were three felonies: identity theft, wire fraud, and anticipatory obstruction of justice; and one optional as felony or misdemeanor: intentionally accessing an account without authorization. Kernell pleaded not guilty to all counts.\n\nA jury trial, featured testimony of Sarah and Bristol Palin, as well as 4chan founder Christopher Poole, began on April 20, 2010. The jury found Kernell guilty on two counts: the felony of anticipatory obstruction of justice and the misdemeanor of unauthorized access to a computer. On her Facebook page, Sarah Palin stated that she and her family were thankful the jury had rendered a just verdict.\n\nKernell was sentenced on November 12, 2010, to one year plus a day in federal custody, followed by three years of supervised release. The sentencing judge recommended that the custody be served in a halfway house, but the Federal Bureau of Prisons sent him instead to a minimum security prison. He was released on November 23, 2011. In January 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit found Kernell's awareness of a possible future FBI investigation was enough to uphold a conviction on obstruction of justice.\n\nShortly after midnight on September 16, 2008, the private Yahoo! Mail account of Sarah Palin was cracked by a 4chan user. The hacker, known as \"Rubico\", claimed he had read Palin's personal e-mails because he was looking for something that \"would derail her campaign.\"\n\nAfter reading through Palin's emails, Rubico wrote, \"There was nothing there, nothing incriminating — all I saw was personal stuff, some clerical stuff from when she was governor.\" Rubico wrote that he used the Sarah Palin Wikipedia article to find Palin's birth date (one of the standard security questions used by Yahoo!.) in \"15 seconds.\" The hacker posted the account's password on /b/, an image board on 4chan, and screenshots from within the account to WikiLeaks.\nA /b/ user then logged in and changed the password, posting a screenshot of his sending an email to a friend of Palin's informing her of the new password on the /b/ thread. This man was criticized heavily by the /b/ community, for being a \"white knight\". However, he did not blank out the password in the screenshot. A multitude of /b/ users then attempted to log in with the new password, and the account was automatically locked out by Yahoo!. The incident was criticized by some /b/ users, one of whom complained that \"seriously, /b/. We could have changed history and failed, epically.\" The hacker admitted he was worried about being caught, writing \"Yes I was behind a proxy, only one, if this sh*t ever got to the FBI I was f**ked, I panicked, I still wanted the stuff out there ... so I posted the [information] ... and then promptly deleted everything, and unplugged my internet and just sat there in a comatose state.\"\n\nThe hacker left behind traces of his activity. His IP address was logged at the proxy he used, CTunnel.com, and he also left his email address codice_1 when he posted at 4chan. Furthermore, the attacker revealed the original web address used by the proxy by leaving this information in the screenshot which according to experts can also help the investigation. 4chan's /b/ board is not archived, and posts are only retained for a short time. However, with the great interest surrounding the posts of Rubico, many, including wired.com, archived the original posts. The email address left behind was then connected to David Kernell through various social networking profiles where it was used, though no official investigation took place at this time.\n\nJohn McCain's campaign condemned the incident, saying it was a \"shocking invasion of the governor's privacy and a violation of law\". Barack Obama's spokesman Bill Burton called the hacking \"outrageous\".\n\nThe FBI and Secret Service began investigating the incident and on September 20, it was revealed that they were questioning David Kernell, a 20-year-old economics student at the University of Tennessee and the son of Democratic Tennessee State Representative Mike Kernell from Memphis. The handle used by the hacker when making his post at 4chan pointed to him, although this evidence was inconclusive because of the frequent pranks pulled at that board. The hacker's proxy service provided its logs, which pointed to Kernell's residence.\n\nFBI agents served a federal search warrant at David Kernell's apartment in Knoxville. Agents spent two hours taking pictures of everything inside his apartment. Kernell's three roommates were also subpoenaed and expected to testify the following week in Chattanooga. The obstruction of justice charge stems from an allegation by the FBI that Kernell attempted to erase evidence of the crime from his hard drive. Kernell's father told \"Wired\" that he was aware that his son was a suspect, but he did not ask him anything about it over concerns that he may have to testify in court.\n\nA second federal grand jury in Knoxville returned an indictment of Kernell on October 7, 2008. He was charged with violating and , or unlawful access to stored communications and intentionally accessing a computer without authorization across state lines, respectively. Kernell turned himself in the next day. Kernell pleaded not guilty. The court released Kernell on his own recognizance. Kernell's attorney claimed that using \"an e-mail address and a birth date does not constitute identity theft\"; however, the court rejected that argument saying \"once Governor Palin chose the Yahoo! ID codice_2, that became her unique address, and no one else could choose it.\"\n\nIn October 2008, Kernell was brought into court in handcuffs and ankle shackles to plead not guilty to the hacking and was released on bond. The case went to trial eighteen months later, on April 20, 2010. On April 23rd, Sarah Palin testified for 44 minutes. Her daughter, Bristol, testified as well. Following the conclusion of testimony, Sarah said, \"I think there need to be consequences for bad behavior.\" The Department of Justice paid for plane fare $2,244.30 for Sarah's husband Todd to come to the trial, though he never took the stand, along with $122 for meals and incidentals and an attendance fee of $120, part of costs of over $29,000 to fly Palin family members, an aide and other witnesses to Knoxville, to send a prosecutor to Alaska for research, and pay other travel expenses, according to the Department records. Air travel was about $18,600; and hotel bills came to nearly $3,300.\n\nOn April 30, 2010, David Kernell was found guilty on two of four counts: the felony of anticipatory obstruction of justice by destruction of records and found for the lower misdemeanor option of unauthorized access to a computer. The jury acquitted him of the charge of wire fraud. It was deadlocked on identity theft charge, so the judge declared a mistrial on that charge. In response, Palin issued a press release comparing the case to Watergate. \n\nSarah Palin said the family was \"thankful that the jury thoroughly and carefully weighed the evidence and issued a just verdict.\"\n\nThe prosecutor, Assistant U.S. Attorney Greg Weddle, who had sought an 18-month prison sentence for Kernell, promised a retrial on the identity theft charge should he be successful in his attempt at receiving a new trial. \n\nIn November 2010 Kernell was sentenced to a year and a day of prison, preferably to be served in a halfway house, plus three years of probation, by U.S. District Judge Thomas Phillips, though he noted the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) could override his recommendations. However, the BOP, which makes the ultimate determination as to where federal prisoners serve their sentence, assigned Kernell to the minimum security prison at the Federal Correctional Institution, Ashland near Ashland, Kentucky. Jose Santana, the chief of the BOP's Designation and Sentence Computation Center, said that halfway houses are for convicts who have limited skills and/or limited support from their families. Because Kernell had the support of his family and had attended a university for three years, Santana argued that he does not need to be in a halfway house. Kernell was later relocated to a halfway house.\nKernell won the Tennessee Open Scholastic Chess Championship in 2004, and graduated in 2006 from Germantown High School. After release from BOP custody, he returned to the University of Tennessee, Knoxville to finish an economics degree. He first volunteered his programming skills expertise to Tennessee Voices for Children, a child advocacy nonprofit group. Diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) in 2014, Kernell participated in clinical research trials at the Cedars-Sinai Neurosciences Research Center in Los Angeles to help develop cures and treatments for other victims of MS. After moving to California, he developed facial recognition software that could identify children at risk of abuse.\n\nKernell died on February 1 or 2, 2018, at the age of 30, from complications related to progressive MS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1842034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1842034", "title": "Satwant Singh", "text": "Satwant Singh\n\nSatwant Singh Agwan (1962 – 6 January 1989) was one of the Sikh bodyguards, who, along with Beant Singh, assassinated the Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi, at her New Delhi residence on 31 October 1984.\n\nThe assassination of Indira Gandhi was motivated as a revenge for the military operation carried out by the Indian government on Harmandir Sahib, in Amritsar, India which was occupied by the Sikh militants under the extremist Bhindranwale. The militants were flushed out and Bhindranwale was killed during the operation. The operation also caused damage to the temple premises and casualties on both sides which angered the Sikhs. \n\nBeant Singh drew a .38 revolver and fired three shots into Indira Gandhi's abdomen; as she fell to the ground, Satwant Singh fired all 30 rounds from his Sten automatic weapon into her abdomen (thus, 33 bullets were fired in total, of which 30 bullets hit her). Both assassins subsequently dropped their weapons and surrendered. \n\nBeant Singh was shot to death during interrogation in custody soon after the assassination. Satwant Singh was arrested and later sentenced to death by hanging along with co-conspirator Kehar Singh. The sentence was carried out on 6 January 1989.\n\nDuring the Supreme Court trial, Satwant Singh, a former club wrestler from Amritsar, made the following statement \"Let any part of my body, after my Shaheedi [\"martyrdom\"], removed and used by anyone who may need. However, if you need my eyes, let the authorities tell my parents. I have no hatred for any Hindu, Muslim, Christian, neither hatred for any religion. After my Shaheedi, let no Sikh throw any rock at any Hindu. I am not in favour of any retaliation or bloodshed over my Shaheedi. If we do create bloodshed, then there is no difference between us and Rajiv Gandhi. I am Proud of the task that I did! I do ardas [prayer] in front of Waheguru! If I am blessed with a human life, then give me a death of the Brave when I am hanged. Forget one life, if I could I would give up a thousand lives to kill dushts [thugs] like Indira Gandhi, and laugh as I become Shaheed [a martyr] by hanging….\" \n\nThe Indian government did not hand over the bodies of the two executed men to their next of kin. Their bodies were cremated within Tihar prison. Citing concerns about possible violence, and the overall repugnant smell of the remains, the authorities refused to give the ashes to the relatives for use in religious ceremonies.\n\nThe assassination of Gandhi brought their immediate families into the limelight, resulting in their winning two Lok Sabha seats from state of Punjab. The Lok Sabha is a directly elected 543 member lower house of the Parliament of India. A film called \"Kaum de Heere\" was made about him in 2014 but barred from release in India.\n\nIn 2003, a Bhog ceremony was held at the highest Sikh temporal seat in Akal Takht, located in the Golden Temple Complex in Amritsar, where tributes were paid to Indira Gandhi's assassins. \n\nIn 2004, the anniversary of his death was again observed at Akal Takhat, Amritsar, where his mother was honored by the head priest and tributes were paid to Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh by various political parties. In 2007, the death anniversaries of Satwant Singh and his wife were observed in various parts of Punjab and other countries. On 6 January 2008, the (Akal Takht) declared Beant Singh and Satwant Singh 'martyrs of Sikhism', while the SGPC also labeled them \"martyrs of the Sikh nation\".\n\nThe Sikh-centric political party in India, Shiromani Akali Dal, observed the death anniversary of Beant Singh and Satwant Singh as 'martyrdom' for the first time on 31 October 2008. Every 31 October since, this date has been observed at Sri Akal Takht Sahib.\n\nIt was reported in the Indian press that during the aftermath of the executions of Satwant Singh and Kehar Singh, communal violence occurred in Punjab.\n\nSingh's father was Tarlok Singh. He married Surinder Kaur (daughter of Virsa Singh) on 2 May 1988 while he was in prison. His fiancé wed him in absentia by marrying his photo in an Anand Karaj.\n"}
{"id": "37024980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37024980", "title": "School meal programs in the United States", "text": "School meal programs in the United States\n\nSchool meal programs in the United States provide school meals free of charge, or at a government-subsidized price, to U.S. students from low-income families. These free or subsidized meals have the potential to increase household food security, which can improve children's health and expand their educational opportunities. A study of a free school meal program in the United States found that providing free meals to elementary and middle school children in areas characterized by high food insecurity led to increased school discipline among the students.\n\nThe biggest school meal program in the United States is the National School Lunch Program (NSLP), which was signed into law by President Harry S. Truman in 1946. Its purpose is to prevent malnutrition and provide a foundation for good nutritional health. The text of the National School Lunch Act, which established the program, called it a \"measure of national security, to safeguard the health and well-being of the nation's children and to encourage domestic consumption of nutritious agricultural commodities\".\n\nThe NSLP currently operates in more than 100,000 public schools, nonprofit private schools, and residential care institutions. It provides more than 5 billion low-cost or free lunches per year to eligible students, with the goal of ensuring nutritious meals for children who might not otherwise have access to a proper diet. In 2012, it served more than 31 million children per day.\n\nFood insecurity includes both inadequate quantity and inadequate quality of food. Children need not just enough calories, but also enough nutrients for proper growth and development, and improper or stunted growth can have a variety of medical and developmental implications. Food insecurity and malnutrition can affect children's educational outcomes, family life, and overall health. It has been linked to worse development outcomes for children, such as impaired social and reading skills.\n\nFood insecurity has risen in recent years. Between 2007 and 2008, the rate in the U.S. increased from 11.1 percent to 14.6 percent, the largest annual increase since researchers began tracking the rate in the mid-1990s. Among households with children, food insecurity increased from 15.8 percent to 21 percent during that period.\n\nFour million American children \"experience prolonged periodic food insufficiency and hunger each year\", which amounts to 8 percent of children under the age of 12. An additional 21 percent are at risk.\n\nFood insecurity affects the health and well-being of children in several ways. It is a major threat to \"growth, health, cognitive, and behavioral potential\", and most behavioral, emotional, and academic problems are more prevalent among hungry children than non-hungry children. Food insecurity is linked to lower math scores, trouble getting along with peers, poor health, and more frequent illness. A study by researchers at the Boston University School of Medicine found that children aged 6–11 who came from food-insecure homes had lower arithmetic scores, were more likely to have repeated a grade or seen a therapist, and had more difficulty getting along with peers than similar children in food-secure homes. Hungry children are much more likely to have clinical levels of psychosocial dysfunction, and they show more anxious, irritable, aggressive, and oppositional behaviors than peers whose families are low-income but food-secure.\n\nIn addition to academic and behavioral problems, children with inadequate diets are more prone to illnesses. Researchers have found that malnutrition leads to an array of health problems that can become chronic. Underfed children may have \"extreme weight loss, stunted growth, weakened resistance to infection\", and even early death. Such ailments reduce the amount of time students can spend learning at school.\n\nThese cognitive, behavioral, and physical problems are exacerbated in children who, in addition to being undernourished, are from impoverished backgrounds. Scientists now believe that \"malnutrition alters intellectual development by interfering with overall health as well as the child's energy level, rate of motor development and rate of growth.\" Moreover, \"low economic status can exacerbate all [of] these factors, placing impoverished children at particular risk for cognitive impairment later in life\".\n\nEducation and food both have an effect on the \"central capabilities\" described by Martha Nussbaum, an American philosopher. These capabilities, which Nussbaum saw as integral to raising people above the poverty threshold, are: life, bodily health, bodily integrity, sense, imagination and thought, emotions, practical reason, affiliation, other species, play, and control over one’s environment (both political and material). Nutrition affects bodily health and bodily integrity, and education has broader connections to sense, imagination and thought, practical reason, and control over one’s environment. Without these capabilities, according to Nussbaum, people fall into poverty traps and lack the proper opportunities to rise out of them. Government efforts such as meal programs can prevent people from falling into poverty, as well as lift them out of it.\n\nBefore the official establishment of the large-scale, government-funded food programs that are prevalent today in the United States, small, non-governmental programs existed. As early as the late 19th century, cities such as Boston and Philadelphia operated independent school lunch programs, with the assistance of volunteers or charities.\n\nUntil the 1930s, most school lunch programs were volunteer efforts led by teachers and mothers' clubs. These programs drew on the expertise of professional home economics. For the people who began these programs, school lunchrooms were the perfect setting in which to feed poor children and, more importantly, to teach immigrant and middle-class children the principles of nutrition and healthy eating. Thus, the original intent of school meal programs was not primarily to increase the food security of impoverished children and alleviate educational problems, but rather to instill cultural norms.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, the numbers of hungry children seeking food overwhelmed lunchrooms. Thus, local programs began to look to state governments, and then the national government, for resources. The national government began providing funding for school lunches on a small scale as early as 1932. This funding originated from New Deal agencies such as the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, and the Civil Works Administration. The federal government monitored supplies from commercial farmers and purchased surplus commodities (Levine 6). Schools served as an outlet for federal commodity donations. In 1935, the programs expanded through the Works Progress Administration and the National Youth Administration, both of which provided labor for school cafeterias. During World War II, the War Food Administration (1943–45) helped create school lunch programs.\n\nEventually, the New Deal policies began to dissolve, and farm surpluses decreased. However, there was still a desire to keep school lunch programs in place, so federal cash assistance began to be appropriated on a year-to-year basis, and the National School Lunch Program was developed.\n\nThe United States Congress passed the National School Lunch Act in 1946 after an investigation found that the poor health of men rejected for the World War II draft was associated with poor nutrition in their childhood.\n\nBy the end of its first year, the National School Lunch Program had helped 7.1 million children. However, from the start, the program linked children’s nutrition to the priorities of agricultural and food interests, and to the agenda of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). In these early years, the program provided substantial welfare to commercial farmers as an outlet for surplus commodities, but provided few free meals to poor children and fed a relatively small number of schoolchildren.\n\nIn the 1960s, a group of mainstream national women’s organizations began focusing on the shortcomings of the NSLP. The evidence they presented became crucial to Congressional debates on race and poverty. In 1962, Congress amended the NSLP, changing it from a distributor of state-regulated grant aid to a permanently funded meal reimbursement program. In 1969, President Richard Nixon pushed Congress to provide funding for school lunches beyond the reimbursement program, declaring, \"The time has come to end hunger in America.\"\n\nIn between, in 1966, Congress passed the Child Nutrition Act, which stated that educational progress was an objective of school meal programs. The bill, signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson, created the federally subsidized School Breakfast Program (SBP), which supplemented the existing lunch program by providing low-cost or free breakfasts to students at public and nonprofit private schools. It also created the Summer Food Service Program and established National School Lunch Week.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, many advocates saw privatization as the only way to keep school lunch programs going. Fast food from private companies began to be served in cafeterias, rather than more nutritious meals.\n\nIn 1994, a number of changes were made to the NSLP, primarily to standardize the nutritional quality of school meals. Dietary guidelines were proposed to take effect in 1996, and the USDA launched the Healthy School Meals Initiative to improve nutritional education for school-age children.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, the NSLP was the nation’s second-largest domestic food program, after the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (more commonly known as food stamps).\n\nIn 2004, as the childhood obesity crisis came into national focus, the USDA urged school districts to establish wellness policies and initiatives tailored to local needs. The USDA regulations were intended to strengthen nutritional education nationwide while giving schools the autonomy to decide what types of foods could be sold in their cafeterias and vending machines.\n\nIn 2007, the USDA hired the Institute of Medicine (IOM; now the National Academy of Medicine) to develop recommendations for \"bringing school food up-to-date with current science\". Dr. Virginia Stallings, a pediatric gastroenterologist at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia who led the IOM team, concluded, \"Since the school meal programs were last updated, we've gained the greater understanding of children's nutritional needs and the dietary factors that contribute to obesity, heart disease, and other chronic health problems.\"\n\nIn 2010, the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act made the most sweeping changes in the history of the NSLP, putting vending-machine snacks and \"à la carte\" menu items under federal regulation for the first time. Championed by First Lady Michelle Obama and directed by the USDA, the law established guidelines requiring more fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in school meals. The guidelines, which took effect in the 2012–13 school year, also limited sodium, fat, and caloric intake based on students' ages.\n\nHistorically, the NSLP and other food programs have been used to improve the health of children who are food-insecure or at risk of malnutrition. More recently, however, the NSLP has made a significant shift to fight childhood obesity as well as malnutrition. Unhealthy eating patterns in overweight children—like those in underweight children—are often tied not only to individual choices, but also to social and economic circumstances such as family income and access to fresh foods. School meal programs provide an avenue by which these socioeconomic circumstances can be targeted to improve children's diets.\n\nMost students benefit from the NSLP, even if they do not receive free lunches, because the program also subsidizes full-price meals in the majority of U.S. schools.\n\nThe Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), an agency of the USDA, administers the NSLP at the federal level. Within each individual state, the program is administered by a state agency, in most cases the Department of Education. (If state law prevents the state from administering the program, the appropriate FNS regional office may administer it instead.) The state official in charge of the NSLP works with individual school districts to make sure each lunchroom worker receives the necessary information and supplies. Additionally, he or she receives directions from the United States Secretary of Agriculture. School districts that choose to participate in the NSLP follow specific guidelines and receive federal subsidies for each meal they serve.\n\nThe NSLP has relationships with several other federal agencies and programs. For example, the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, an initiative of the United States Department of Defense (DoD), allows schools to use USDA entitlement dollars to buy fresh produce. The NSLP also works closely with the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).\n\nAside from its impact on public organizations, the NSLP also affects corporate vendors and local businesses. The program is designed to help local farmers by purchasing fresh fruits and vegetables, which make their way to schoolchildren. Additionally, many companies are reformulating their foods to meet federal guidelines so that they can sell their products to the government.\n\nThe SBP began as a pilot program in 1966 and became permanent in 1975. It was developed specifically to help impoverished children; the \"original legislation stipulated that first consideration for program implementation was to be given to schools located in poor areas or in areas where children had to travel a great distance to school\", and in 1971, \"Congress directed that priority consideration for the program would include schools in which there was a special need to improve the nutrition and dietary practices of children of working mothers and children from low-income families\".\n\nThe SBP works in essentially the same way as the NSLP: Participating schools receive cash subsidies from the USDA for every meal they serve. They must meet federal nutrition requirements and offer free or reduced-price breakfasts to children who are eligible. The USDA provides technical training and assistance to help school workers prepare and serve healthy meals, as well as nutrition education to help children understand the links between diet and health.\n\nIn 1970, before it was made permanent, the SBP served 500,000 children. In fiscal year 2011, more than 12.1 million children participated each day, 10.1 million of whom received free or reduced-price breakfasts.\n\nBoth the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program give cash reimbursements for food served at participating schools. In the 2012–13 school year, the NSLP provided the following reimbursements for \"non-severe-need\" schools: $2.86 for free lunches, $2.46 for reduced-price lunches, $0.27 for paid lunches, $0.78 for free snacks, $0.39 for reduced-price snacks, and $0.07 for paid snacks. (Students eligible for reduced-price meals paid no more than 40 cents per meal.) A school may qualify for higher, \"severe need\" reimbursements if 40 percent or more of its lunches were served free or at reduced price in the second preceding year.\n\nThe SBP provided the following reimbursements in 2012–13: $1.55 for free breakfasts, $1.25 for reduced-price breakfasts, and $0.27 for paid breakfasts.\n\nFor fiscal year 2011, the cost of the SBP was $3 billion, compared with $10.8 million in 1970. The cost of the NSLP was $11.1 billion in 2011, compared with $70 million in 1947. \n\nBudget trends suggest that meal production costs over the last five years have been increasing faster than revenues. A report by the USDA's Economic Research Service in July 2008 suggested: \"Cost pressures may be a barrier to improving school menus in some cases. The nationally representative School Lunch and Breakfast Cost Study II found that while the mean reported cost of producing lunch during 2005–06 was below the reimbursement rate, about one in four school districts reported costs above the reimbursement rate.\" It continued, \"Further, the mean full cost of producing a lunch was higher than the reimbursement rate.\"\n\nThe study also found that reported costs rose, but full costs fell, from 1992–2005, reﬂecting an increase in the number of school food authorities being charged by school districts for indirect costs in response to the districts' own budget pressures (School Nutrition Association, 2006). Other sources of financial pressure include increases in health care costs for employees (GAO, 2003; Woodward-Lopez et al., 2005) and, more recently, rising food costs (FRAC, 2008).\n\nIn 2012, researchers compared the previous year's data with limited current-year data to see whether previously identified problems persisted. They found that in fiscal year 2011, the NSLP served 5.18 billion lunches at a cost of $11.1 billion, an increase of 181 percent from fiscal year 2000.\n\nIn terms of cost efficiency, one can compare the costs of NSLP-compliant lunches and lunches served in schools that do not participate in the program. Constance Newman's \"The Food Costs of Healthier School\" (2012) compared those costs during the 2005–06 school year. Newman found that healthy meals were more expensive than meals that did not meet the new nutritional standards. She also found that the \"mean reported cost for a reimbursement lunch was $2.36, while the reimbursement rate was $2.51\", or 106 percent of the cost. However, revenues for non-reimbursable meals (for example, adult lunches) covered only 71 percent of the cost of those meals.\n\nTo address this, the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 required gradual increases in reimbursements until 100 percent of costs were covered. In addition, the USDA increased School Food Authority (SFA) reimbursement rates by 6 cents per meal for the 2012–13 school year.\n\nNot all of the cost increases Newman found were due to food prices; nearly half were associated with overhead, such as equipment, labor, and training. Additionally, her research, which relied on data from 2005 and 2006, is now outdated, and Newman acknowledged that \"another important caveat is that the foods served in schools have changed since 2005\".\n\nRecently, there has been a push to privatize school meal programs because of their rising costs. Private food service companies have much greater purchasing power than school districts and are able to save money by providing fewer benefits and lower salaries to their employees.\n\nParticipation in the NSLP is voluntary. School districts and independent schools that choose to take part receive cash subsidies and donated commodities from the USDA for each meal they serve. In return, they must serve lunches that meet federal nutritional requirements, and they must offer free or reduced-price meals to eligible children. Schools can also be reimbursed for snacks served to children in after-school educational or enrichment programs.\n\nIn the late 1990s, NSLP officials determined in a \"Study of Direct Certification in the National School Lunch Program\" that the program's paper application process was inefficient and potentially excluded eligible school districts (Jackson, Gleason, Hall and Strauss, 2000). As a result, the program switched to a direct certification process, in which schools can use documentation from local or state welfare agencies to demonstrate their eligibility. Despite a lack of cooperation between the NSLP and some welfare agencies, the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) found that direct certification significantly increased the number of participants. In 2008, Philip Gleason, a senior researcher for Mathematica Policy Research, wrote a paper affirming that direct certification expanded access to the NSLP.\nHowever, some researchers have identified an opposite problem: the acceptance into the program of students who are not eligible for it. A three-year study by the FNS (Gleason, 2008) found that 77.5 percent of NSLP applicants were correctly certified. However, 15 percent were certified as eligible when they did not actually qualify, and 7.5 percent were denied benefits despite being eligible. While the amount of erroneous payments during the 2005–06 school year was relatively small as a percentage of the program's total cost, they totaled more than $759 million (Ponza, 2007). Subsequent research by Molly Dahl found that the problem continued, with an estimated overpayment of $1.5 billion in 2011.\n\nDavid Bass wrote in 2009 that the problem was not simply an innocent one, but involved a calculated effort by school districts to commit fraud. He argued that, because \"state governments dole out benefits according to free and reduced-price lunch percentages ... local school districts have a clear incentive to register as many students in the NSLP as possible\". While the NSLP has a built-in verification process, only about 3 percent of applications can be reviewed to verify the reported income. Bass found that some school districts that wanted to verify higher percentages of applications were threatened with legal action from the federal government. He also identified one district that found that 70 percent of the applications it reviewed were incorrect.\n\nSchool lunches must meet the applicable recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, which state that no more than 30 percent of an individual's calories should come from fat, and no more than 10 percent from saturated fat. School lunches must also provide one-third of the recommended daily allowances of calories, protein, vitamin A, vitamin C, iron, and calcium. However, decisions about what specific foods to serve and how to prepare them are made by local school officials. The 2007 School Nutrition Dietary Assessment Study III, based on research by the USDA during the 2004–05 school year, found that students in more than 90 percent of schools surveyed had the opportunity to select lunches that met dietary standards for fat and saturated fat.\n\nSchool meal programs are increasingly using more whole grains, fruits and vegetables, lean protein, and low-fat dairy. Efforts such as the Local School Wellness Policies required by the 2004 Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act have gotten parents, students, and school communities involved in efforts to promote healthy eating and increased physical activity on school campuses.\n\nIn 2009, the National Academy of Medicine released \"School Meals: Building Blocks for Healthy Children\", which reviewed and recommended updates to the NSLP and SBP nutrition standards and meal requirements. It also set standards for menu planning that focus on food groups, calories, saturated fat, and sodium, and that incorporate the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Dietary Reference Intake recommendations.\n\nUnhealthy school lunches contribute to malnutrition in both the short term and the long term. In many cases, unhealthy adult eating patterns can be traced back to unhealthy school lunches, because children learn eating habits from social settings such as school. A 2010 study of 1,003 middle-school students in Michigan found that those who ate school lunches were significantly more likely to be obese than those who did not.\n\nPromoting healthy eating in schools may reduce adolescent obesity by as much as 25 percent. One such effort is the Berkeley Food System, which uses vegetable gardens to promote education on healthy eating. Janet Brown, who started the project, explained that students were more likely to eat healthy foods such as fruits and vegetables when they were better introduced to them.\n\nIn 2008, the Economic Research Service of the USDA issued a report titled \"The National School Lunch Program: Backgrounds, Trends, and Issues\", which reaffirmed that one of the main goals of the NSLP, as identified by Congress, is to \"promote the health and well-being of the Nation’s children\". According to the report, new challenges to this goal have emerged with increased scrutiny of high-fat commodities donated by the USDA, such as meat, cheese, and milk. The authors argue that providing high-fat USDA food subsidies contributes to childhood obesity. While NSLP participants have higher intakes of calcium and fiber—nutrients often underconsumed by children—they also have higher fat intakes. However, study results comparing weight gain among NSLP participants and nonparticipants are inconclusive.\n\nA 2011 article in the \"Journal of Econometrics,\" \"The impact of the National School Lunch Program on child health: A nonparametric bounds analysis\", affirmed the nutritional advantages of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act but found that \"children in households reporting the receipt of free or reduced-price school meals through the National School Lunch Program are more likely to have negative health outcomes than observationally similar nonparticipants\". The authors asserted that specific groups were not receiving the expected nutritional benefits from the NSLP, and put forth two possible explanations: First, children receiving free or reduced-price meals are likely to differ from their peers in ways that are not reflected in the data. Second, the households of the children most affected by reduced-price lunches may be misreporting participation in the program.\n\nThe USDA report in 2008 identified the emergence of \"competitive foods\" as an obstacle to the NSLP's nutritional goals. Competitive foods—which may include items purchased off campus, à la carte items purchased on campus, products from vending machines, food purchased for school fundraising, food available at school parties, and treats given to students by teachers—are not included in the NSLP reimbursement plan and so are not required to meet USDA standards. Generally speaking, competitive foods are lower in key nutrients and higher in fat than NSLP-reimbursable meals. The availability of such foods in schools often undermines the nutritional goals of the NSLP.\n\nThe study recommended that nutritional standards be applied to all food served or sold in schools. In addition, it noted that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) recommended in 2005 that the USDA's authority to regulate \"foods of minimal nutritional value\" be extended to a wider class of foods.\n\nResearch has shown that 36 percent of participants in reduced-price lunch programs are food-insecure and 19 percent are obese.\n\nStudies comparing NSLP participants and nonparticipants have been inconclusive on whether weight gain rates differ between the two groups. The 2008 Economic Research Service study found \"similar calorie intakes for participants and nonparticipants but higher fat and sodium intakes for participants\". The most obvious challenge to efforts to address such problems is that even if more nutritious foods are provided, there is no guarantee that students will eat them. Additionally, the NSLP does not take into account the physiological differences among participants: Some children are smaller than others, some are more athletic, and some have metabolisms that require more calories than the NSLP allows.\n\nThree ideas have been proposed to address obesity in schools: \n\nStudies have shown a positive correlation between school meal programs and increased food security. Among low-income children, the marginal food insecurity rate of those with access to the School Breakfast Program is lower than that of those children without access to the program.\n\nThis increase in food security has not been shown to have significant long-term health benefits, but it does have a positive impact on education. Subsidized lunches appear to encourage children to attend school, and to free up food at home for other family members to consume. Public-policy researchers at Georgetown University found in 2010 that \"increasing NSLP exposure by ten percentage points results in an average increase in education of .365 years\" for girls, and \"increases average education by nearly a year\" for boys. The researchers found that participation in grades seven through twelve \"has a stronger effect on educational attainment than participating in the earlier grades does, whereas there is some evidence suggesting that participation in earlier grades is more important for the health outcomes\".\n\nAn article in \"The Wilson Quarterly\" in 2011 described the impact of the NSLP in the Maplewood–Richmond Heights School District in the St. Louis suburbs, where participation in the program is increasing. Linda Henke, the superintendent of the school district, said: \"I was struck by the positive vibe around the revamped program. A teacher said he'd lost seven pounds by eating in the high school cafeteria every school day for the previous three months. A senior girl who had embraced the changes from the beginning observed that even she was surprised when football players started eating salads. The elementary school's cook of 14 years told me her job is now harder, but it’s rewarding.\" The article continued: \"It takes a tough-minded school leader to assert that nutrient-rich food is the right choice for kids—and that it's an appropriate use of government dollars. Kids will complain initially but will come around. And a number of collateral benefits follow when students eat well. Anecdotal reports from schools with healthful and flavorful food indicate that teachers have started eating with students, attendance rates are higher, and fewer students fall asleep in class or commit vandalism and violence at school.\"\n\nAnother article examined the program's effects within the Los Angeles Unified School District. The district's food service director, David Binkle, said: \"From what I see and what I hear now that students are getting used to [the new menus] and they have tasted it, they like it. Any time you make a change, and the major change like this, that's an evolution that we have to go through. There's going to be people now saying the meal is too healthy for the kids and it's stuff they don't know. The reality of this is the rest of the country is about to see what we've gone through [when they adopt the new meal pattern regulations]. We did this on purpose so that we could really get out ahead of this and start to work through it and adjust. I think the rest of the country is going to see a lot of the same impact [that we've seen this year].\" Binkle added, \"What I keep hearing from the principals is that as we keep tweaking and teaching and encouraging the kids, more and more kids are participating.\"\n\nResearch overwhelmingly shows an upward trend in NSLP participation. However, the \"Wilson Quarterly\" article described a challenge: \"Since 2004, the USDA has administered the HealthierUS School Challenge, awarding distinction but no money, to schools that voluntarily improve the healthfulness of their meals. By last fall, only a paltry 841 of the 101,000 schools in the NSLP (less than one percent) had received awards. That leaves a lot of schools that are still promoting Tater Tot Day and reheating frozen pizzas.\" The HealthierUS School Challenge (HUSSC) is a voluntary certification initiative recognizing schools that have created healthier environments by promoting nutrition and physical activity. Schools that apply may be awarded HUSSC certification and monetary incentives. As of March 11, 2014, there were 6,706 schools certified, which is 6 percent of the schools participating in the NSLP.\n"}
{"id": "3274944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3274944", "title": "Segal–Cover score", "text": "Segal–Cover score\n\nA Segal–Cover score is an attempt to measure the \"perceived qualifications and ideology\" of nominees to the United States Supreme Court. The scores are created by analyzing pre-confirmation newspaper editorials regarding the nominations from \"The New York Times\", \"Washington Post\", \"Chicago Tribune\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\", and \"The Wall Street Journal\". Each nominee receives two scores that range from 0 to 1:\n\nThe Segal–Cover scoring was introduced by Jeffrey Segal and Albert Cover (both of Stony Brook University) in their 1989 article \"Ideological Values and the Votes of U.S. Supreme Court Justices\". The scores have been updated by Segal to cover all nominees from Hugo Black in 1937 to the 2010 nomination of Elena Kagan. In 2017, Segal provided the scores for Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court Database.\n\nSegal and Cover found that the scores are strongly correlated with the subsequent votes of the justices. Because the scores are based on perceptions before the nominee takes a seat on the Court, they also provide \"reliable measures of the ideological values of Supreme Court justices that are independent of the votes they later cast.\"\n\nThe Segal–Cover perceived qualifications and ideology scores for all nominees to the Court from 1937–2017:\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> The vote on Fortas for the Chief Justice position was on cloture and failed to receive the necessary two-thirds majority.\n\nA highlighted row indicates that the Justice is currently serving on the Court. A Senate vote in red text indicates that the nomination was blocked.\n\n"}
{"id": "39000639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39000639", "title": "Southern Cross (wordless novel)", "text": "Southern Cross (wordless novel)\n\nSouthern Cross is the sole wordless novel by Canadian artist Laurence Hyde (1914–1987). Published in 1951, its 118 wood-engraved images narrate the impact of atomic testing on Pacific islanders. Hyde made the book to express his anger at the US military's nuclear tests in the Bikini Atoll.\n\nThe wordless novel genre had flourished primarily during the 1920s and 1930s, but by the 1940s even the most prolific practitioners had abandoned it. Hyde was familiar with some such works by Lynd Ward, Otto Nückel, and the form's pioneer Frans Masereel. The high-contrast artwork of \"Southern Cross\" features dynamic curving lines uncommon in wood engraving and combines abstract imagery with realistic detail. It has gained appreciation in comics circles as a precursor to the Canadian graphic novel, though it had no direct influence.\n\nThe story tells of the American military evacuating villagers from a Pacific island before testing nuclear weapons. A drunken soldier attempts to rape a fisherman's wife during the evacuation, and the fisherman kills him. To avoid capture, the couple run to the forests with their child and hide. The child witnesses the death of the parents and destruction of their environment from the ensuing atomic tests.\n\nBorn in Kingston upon Thames in England in 1914, Laurence Hyde moved with his family to Canada in 1926. They settled in Toronto in 1928, where Hyde studied art at Central Technical School. His strongest artistic influences included the painter Paul Nash and the printmakers Eric Gill, Rockwell Kent, and Lynd Ward; he corresponded with Kent and Ward.\n\nFrom the 1930s Hyde did commercial pen-and-ink and scratchboard illustrations, ran a business providing advertising illustrations, and made wood engravings and linocuts for books. He attempted but gave up on two series of prints, titled \"Discovery\" and \"Macbeth\". Hyde worked in Ottawa for the National Film Board of Canada from 1942 until his 1972 retirement.\n\nThe wordless novel had been popular in the 1920s and 1930s, but had become rare by the 1940s. Such books tended to be melodramatic works about social injustice. Hyde was familiar with some of Ward's books and the German Otto Nückel's \"Destiny\" (1926). The only work he knew of the Flemish artist Frans Masereel, the form's first and most prolific practitioner, was \"Passionate Journey\" (1919), which he had read in a 1949 American edition. Like his forebears in the genre, Hyde had a left-wing agenda that he expressed in his art. When \"Southern Cross\" appeared, the genre had been out of the public eye for so long that Hyde included a historical essay to orient the reader. Hyde had asked Ward to proofread this history, but the book was published without Ward's corrections—errors remained, such as Masereel's forename given as \"Hans\", and a listing of only four of Ward's six wordless novels.\n\nHyde made \"Southern Cross\" to express his anger at American nuclear tests in the Bikini Atoll in 1946 following the atomic bombings in Japan. He worked on it from 1948 to 1951. Each image is , centred at the top third of the page and with broad margins. The one exception is of the bomb detonating, a full-page image that bleeds off the page. Hyde carved dynamic curving lines uncommon in wood engraving. Blacks overwhelms the figures they surround, and abstract images contrast with realistic detail in the flora and fauna.\n\n\"Southern Cross\" was published in a limited edition by Ward Ritchie Press in 1951 on Japanese paper with the images on the recto and the verso left blank. Rockwell Kent provided the introduction. Hyde dedicated the book to the Red Cross Societies and the Society of Friends. He was not present at the book's pressing and thus was not able to correct some blocks that he had not carved deeply enough to produce satisfactory prints.\n\nThe book was republished twice in 2007: Drawn and Quarterly released a deluxe facsimile edition with additional essays by Hyde and an introduction by wordless novel historian David Beronä, and George Walker included \"Southern Cross\" in his anthology of wordless novels \"Graphic Witness\".\n\nIn a talk with the CBC in 1952, literary critic Northrop Frye praised Hyde's visual skills, but said, \"There's no point in getting the book for your library unless you like the engravings themselves as separate works of art.\" He found the book a quick read in contrast to the time it took to make it, and called its \"continuity\" a weak point. He considered the visualization of the bomb's destruction of living things the strongest justification for the work.\n\nComics critic Sean Rogers praised the work, particularly the pacing and action sequences, but felt it had less impact than such earlier works as Masereel's \"Passionate Journey\" (1919) or Ward's \"Vertigo\" (1937). Rogers found the anti-nuclear message less effective than that of later comics such as Keiji Nakazawa's \"Barefoot Gen\" or Gary Panter's \"Jimbo\". Comics scholar Roger Sabin found the book unconvincing, \"a well-meaning but facile piece of agit-prop\". Reviewer Erik Hinton praised the artwork while calling the story \"the progeny of historical lip-service and the hot-button anxiety of the destructivity of modern warfare\", and considered Ward and others of Hyde's predecessors more proficient at the medium.\n\n\"Southern Cross\" has gained appreciation in comics circles as a precursor to the graphic novel in Canada, though it had no direct influence on Canadian comics—it was marketed to book connoisseurs, a world far removed from that of consumers of cheap entertainment that comics served in the 1950s. Copies of \"Southern Cross\" joined the collections of the National Gallery of Canada in 1952 and the Burnaby Art Gallery in 1987. The book received an mention for Best Book at the 2008 Doug Wright Awards for Canadian Cartooning, accepted by Hyde's son, Anthony.\n\n"}
{"id": "25412332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25412332", "title": "Submerged Lands Act", "text": "Submerged Lands Act\n\nThe Submerged Lands Act of 1953 (codified at et seq.) is a US federal law that recognized the title of the states to submerged navigable lands within their boundaries at the time they entered the Union. They include navigable waterways, such as rivers, as well as marine waters within the state's boundaries, generally three geographical miles (almost exactly ) from the coastline.\n\nThe Submerged Lands Act of 1953 was immediately followed by the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act on August 7, 1953. Under the latter, the Secretary of the Interior is responsible for the administration of mineral exploration and development of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). The Secretary of the Interior is empowered to grant leases to the highest qualified responsible bidder and to formulate regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act. OCSLA provides guidelines for implementing an Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas exploration and development program.\n"}
{"id": "3983303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3983303", "title": "Suppression of Freemasonry", "text": "Suppression of Freemasonry\n\nA number of governments have treated Freemasonry as a potential source of opposition due to its secret nature and international connections. After the founding of modern speculative Masonry in England in 1717, several Protestant states restricted Masonic lodges: the Netherlands banned the lodge in 1735; Sweden and Geneva, in 1738; Zurich, in 1740; and Berne, in 1745. Catholic Spain, Portugal, France and Italy attempted to suppress Freemasonry after 1738. Bavaria followed in 1784; Austria, in 1795; Baden, in 1813; Russia, in 1822. It was also banned in Pakistan in 1972.\n\nMasonic scholar Paul Bessel has noted that the language used by modern totalitarian regimes is similar to that used by some other modern critics of Freemasonry.\n\nFreemasonry was persecuted in all the communist countries, but the organization has survived in Cuba, allegedly providing safe haven for dissidents.\n\nAfter the 1826 disappearance of William Morgan, who was allegedly kidnapped by Freemasons after publishing an exposé and then apparently killed, the Morgan affair resulted in increased suspicion of Freemasonry and the formation of the Anti-Masonic Party. William A. Palmer of Vermont and Joseph Ritner of Pennsylvania were both elected governor of their respective states on anti-Masonic platforms.\n\nJohn Quincy Adams, President of the United States during the Morgan affair, later declared, objecting to the oath of secrecy, in particular to keeping undefined secrets, and to the penalties for breaking the oath, \"Masonry ought forever to be abolished. It is wrong - essentially wrong - a seed of evil which can never produce any good.\"\n\nThough few states passed laws directed at Freemasonry by name, laws regulating and restricting it were passed and many cases dealing with Freemasonry were seen in the courts. Antimasonic legislation was passed in Vermont in 1833, including a provision by which the giving and willing taking of an unnecessary oath was made a crime. (Pub. Stat., sec. 5917), and the state of New York enacted a Benevolent Orders Law to regulate such organizations.\n\nIn 1938, a Japanese representative to the \"Welt-Dienst\" / \"World-Service\" congress hosted by Ulrich Fleischhauer stated, on behalf of Japan, that \"Judeo-Masonry is forcing the Chinese to turn China into a spearhead for an attack on Japan, and thereby forcing Japan to defend herself against this threat. Japan is at war not with China but with Freemasonry (Tiandihui), represented by General Chiang Kai-shek, the successor of his master, the Freemason Sun Yat-sen.\"\n\nFreemasonry was outlawed in the Soviet Union during the Communist era and suppressed throughout Central Europe (Hungary and Czechoslovakia).\n\nBenito Mussolini decreed in 1924 that every member of his Fascist Party who was a Mason must abandon either one or the other organization, and in 1925, he dissolved Freemasonry in Italy, claiming that it was a political organization. One of the most prominent Fascists, General Cappello, who had also been Deputy Grand Master of the Grande Oriente, Italy's leading Grand Lodge, gave up his membership in the Fascist Party rather than in Masonry. He was later arrested on false charges and sentenced to 30 years in jail.\n\nIn 1919, Béla Kun proclaimed the dictatorship of the proletariat in Hungary and Masonic properties were taken into public ownership. After the fall of the dictatorship of the proletariat the leaders of counter-revolution as Miklós Horthy blamed the Hungarian freemasons for their First World War defeat and for the revolution. Masonry was outlawed by a decree in 1920. This marked the start of raids by army officers on Masonic lodges along with theft, and sometimes destruction, of Masonic libraries, records, archives, paraphernalia, and works of art. Several Masonic buildings were seized and used for anti-Masonic exhibitions. The masonic documents were archived, preserved and may still used for research.\n\nIn post war Hungary, lodges were re-established, but after five years the government described them as \"meeting places of the enemies of the people's democratic republic, of capitalistic elements, and of the adherents of Western imperialism\". They were banned again in 1950.\n\nThe Nazis claimed that high-degree Masons were willing members of the Jewish conspiracy and that Freemasonry was one of the causes of Germany's defeat in World War I. In \"Mein Kampf\", Adolf Hitler wrote that Freemasonry has succumbed to the Jews and has become an excellent instrument to fight for their aims and to use their strings to pull the upper strata of society into their designs. He continued, \"The general pacifistic paralysis of the national instinct of self-preservation begun by Freemasonry\" is then transmitted to the masses of society by the press. In 1933 Hermann Göring, the Reichstag President and one of the key figures in the process of \"Gleichschaltung\" (\"synchronization\"), stated \"in National Socialist Germany, there is no place for Freemasonry\".\nThe Enabling Act (\"Ermächtigungsgesetz\" in German) was passed by Germany's parliament (the Reichstag) on March 23, 1933. Using the Act, on January 8, 1934, the German Ministry of the Interior ordered the disbandment of Freemasonry, and confiscation of the property of all Lodges; stating that those who had been members of Lodges when Hitler came to power, in January 1933, were prohibited from holding office in the Nazi party or its paramilitary arms, and were ineligible for appointment in public service. Consistently considered an ideological foe of Nazism in their world perception (\"Weltauffassung\"), special sections of the Security Service (SD) and later the Reich Security Main Office (RSHA) were established to deal with Freemasonry. Masonic concentration camp inmates were graded as political prisoners, and wore an inverted (point down) red triangle.\n\nOn August 8, 1935, as Führer and Chancellor, Adolf Hitler announced in the Nazi Party newspaper, \"Voelkischer Beobachter\", the final dissolution of all Masonic Lodges in Germany. The article accused a conspiracy of the Fraternity and World Jewry of seeking to create a World Republic. In 1937 Joseph Goebbels inaugurated an \"Anti-Masonic Exposition\" to display objects seized by the state. The Ministry of Defence forbade officers from becoming Freemasons, with officers who remained as Masons being sidelined.\n\nDuring the war, Freemasonry was banned by edict in all countries that were either allied with the Nazis or under Nazi control, including Norway and France. Anti-Masonic exhibitions were held in many occupied countries. Field-Marshal Friedrich Paulus was denounced as a \"High-grade Freemason\" when he surrendered to the Soviet Union in 1943.\n\nIn 1943, the anti-Masonic propaganda film \"Forces occultes\" was produced in Nazi-occupied France, accusing the Freemasons of conspiring with Jews and Anglo-American nations to encourage France into a war with Germany.\n\nThe preserved records of the RSHA—i.e., \"Reichssicherheitshauptamt\" or the Office of the High Command of Security Service, which pursued the racial objectives of the SS through the Race and Resettlement Office—document the persecution of Freemasons. The number of Freemasons from Nazi occupied countries who were killed is not accurately known, but it is estimated that between 80,000 and 200,000 Freemasons were murdered under the Nazi regime.\n\nIn 1736 the Florentine Inquisition investigated a Masonic Lodge in Florence, Italy, and the Lodge was condemned in June 1737 by the Chief Inquisitor in Rome. The lodge had originally been founded by English Masons, but accepted Italian members.\n\nIn 1738, Pope Clement XII issued \"In eminenti apostolatus\", the first Papal prohibition on Freemasonry.\n\nA more contemporary call for suppression is found in the encyclical \"Humanum genus\" of 1884, which calls Masonry a dangerous sect and demands that all bishops be vigilant on its abuses.\n\nIt is claimed that the dictator Miguel Primo de Rivera ordered the abolition of Freemasonry in Spain. In September 1928, one of the two Grand Lodges in Spain was closed and approximately two-hundred (200) masons, most notably the Grand Master of the Grand Orient, were imprisoned for allegedly plotting against the government.\n\nFollowing the military coup of 1936, many Freemasons trapped in areas under Nationalist control were arrested and summarily killed in the White Terror (Spain), along with members of left wing parties and trade unionists. It was reported that Masons were tortured, garroted, shot, and murdered by organized death squads in every town in Spain. At this time one of the most rabid opponents of Freemasonry, Father Juan Tusquets Terrats, began to work for the Nationalists with the task of exposing masons. One of his close associates was Franco’s personal chaplain, and over the next two years, these two men assembled a huge index of 80,000 suspected masons, even though there were little more than 5,000 masons in Spain. The results were horrific. Among other countless crimes, the lodge building in Cordoba was burnt, the Masonic Temple of Santa Cruz de Tenerife in the Canary Islands was confiscated and transformed into the headquarters of the Falange, and another was shelled by artillery. In Salamanca thirty (30) members of one lodge were shot, including a priest. Similar atrocities occurred across the country: fifteen (15) masons were shot in Logrono, seventeen (17) in Ceuta, thirty-three (33) in Algeciras, and thirty (30) in Valladolid, among them the Civil Governor. Few towns escaped the carnage as Freemasons in Lugo, Zamora, Cadiz and Granada were brutally rounded up and shot, and in Seville, the entire membership of several lodges were butchered. The slightest suspicion of being a mason was often enough to earn a place in a firing squad, and the blood-letting was so fierce that, reportedly, some masons were even hurled into working engines of steam trains. By 16 December 1937, according to the annual masonic assembly held in Madrid, all masons that had not escaped from the areas under nationalist control had been murdered.\n\nAfter the victory of dictator General Francisco Franco, Freemasonry was officially outlawed in Spain on 2 March 1940. Being a mason was automatically punishable by a minimum jail term of 12 years. Masons of the 18º and above were deemed guilty of ‘Aggravated Circumstances’, and usually faced the death penalty.\n\nAccording to Francoists, the Republican Regime which Franco overthrew had a strong Masonic presence. In reality Spanish Masons were present in all sectors of politics and the armed forces. At least four (4) of the Generals who supported Franco's rebellion were Masons, although many lodges contained fervent but generally conservative Republicans. Freemasonry was formally outlawed in the Law for the Repression of Freemasonry and Communism. After Franco's decree outlawing masonry, Franco's supporters were given two months to resign from any lodge they might be a member. Many masons chose to go into exile instead, including prominent monarchists who had whole-heartedly supported the Nationalist rebellion in 1936. The common components in Spanish Masonry seems to have been upper or middle class conservative liberalism and strong anti-clericism.\n\nThe Law for the Repression of Freemasonry and Communism was not abrogated until 1963. References to a \"Judeo-Masonic plot\" are a standard component of Francoist speeches and propaganda and reveal the intense and paranoid obsession of the dictator with masonry. Franco produced at least 49 pseudonymous anti-masonic magazine articles and an anti-masonic book during his lifetime. According to Franco:\n\nIt was the Unlawful Societies Act of 1799 that saw the first statute \"for the more effectual suppression of societies established for seditious and treasonable purposes\"; once enacted it affected all societies whose members were required to take an oath not authorised by law, shall be deemed \"unlawful combinations.\" It was as a result of the intervention of the Grand Master of the Antients, The 4th Duke of Atholl, and the Acting Grand Master of the Moderns, the earl of Moira that a special exempting clause was inserted into this legislation in favour of societies \"held under the Denomination of Lodges of Freemasons\" provided that they had been \"usually held before the Act\" and their names, places and times of meeting and the names of the members were annually registered with the local Clerk to the Justices of the Peace. This continued on until 1967 when this Act was repealed by a section of the Criminal Justice Act which meant that the annual returns of all the Lodges to the authorities ceased.\n\nSince 1997, several members of the British Government have attempted to pass laws requiring Freemasons who join the police or judiciary to declare their membership publicly to the government amid accusations of Freemasons performing acts of mutual advancement and favour-swapping. This movement was initially led by Jack Straw, Home Secretary from 1997 until 2001. In 1999, the Welsh Assembly became the only body in the United Kingdom to place a legal requirement on membership declaration for Freemasons. Currently, existing members of the police and judiciary in England are asked to voluntarily admit to being Freemasons. However, all first time successful judiciary candidates \"must declare their freemasonry status\" before appointment. Conversely, new members of the police are not required to declare their status.\n\nIn 2004, Rhodri Morgan, the First Minister of the Welsh Assembly, said that he blocked Gerard Elias' appointment to counsel general because of links to hunting and Freemasonry, although it was claimed by non-Labour politicians that the real reason was in order to have a Labour supporter, Malcolm Bishop, in the role.\n\nAfter the condemnation of Freemasonry by Clement XII in 1738, Sultan Mahmud I followed suit outlawing the organization and since that time Freemasonry was equated with atheism in the Ottoman Empire and the broader Islamic world. The opposition in the Islamic world has been reinforced by the anticlerical and atheistic slant of the Grand Orient of France.\n\nOn July 15, 1978, the Islamic Jurisdictional College—one of the most influential entities that interpret Sharia, or Islamic law—issued an opinion that deemed Freemasonry to be \"dangerous\" and \"clandestine\".\n\nAfter World War I, while under the British Mandate, Iraq used to have several lodges. This all changed with the 14 July Revolution in 1958, however, with the abolition of the Hashemite Monarchy and Iraq's declaration as a republic. The licences permitting lodges to meet were rescinded, and later, laws were introduced banning any further meetings. This position was later reinforced under Saddam Hussein the death penalty was \"prescribed\" for those who \"promote or acclaim Zionist principles, including Freemasonry, or who associate [themselves] with Zionist organizations\".\n\nFreemasonry is illegal in all Arab countries except Lebanon and Morocco and the current Grand Lodge in Turkey. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6517501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6517501", "title": "Swiss peasant war of 1653", "text": "Swiss peasant war of 1653\n\nThe Swiss peasant war of 1653 was a popular revolt in the Old Swiss Confederacy at the time of the Ancien Régime. A devaluation of Bernese money caused a tax revolt that spread from the Entlebuch valley in the Canton of Lucerne to the Emmental valley in the Canton of Bern and then to the cantons of Solothurn and Basel and also to the Aargau.\n\nThe population of the countryside demanded fiscal relief from their ruling authorities, the city councils of these cantons' capitals. When their demands were dismissed by the cities, the peasants organized themselves and threatened to blockade the cities. After initial compromises mediated by other cantons had failed, the peasants united under the treaty of Huttwil, forming the \"League of Huttwil\". Their movement became more radical, going beyond the initially purely fiscal demands. The Huttwil League considered itself a political entity equal to and independent from the city authorities, and it assumed full military and political sovereignty in its territories.\n\nThe peasants laid siege on Bern and Lucerne, whereupon the cities negotiated a peace agreement with the peasant leader Niklaus Leuenberger, the so-called peace on the Murifeld. The peasant armies retreated. The \"Tagsatzung\", the federal council of the Old Swiss Confederacy, then sent an army from Zürich to definitely end the rebellion, and after the Battle of Wohlenschwil, the Huttwil League was forcibly annulled in the peace of Mellingen. The last resistance in the Entlebuch valley was broken by the end of June. After their victory, the city authorities took drastic punitive measures. The Huttwil League and the peace of the Murifeld were declared null and void by the city council of Bern. Many exponents of the insurrection were captured, tortured, and finally received heavy sentences. Niklaus Leuenberger was beheaded and quartered in Bern on September 6, 1653.\n\nAlthough the military victory of the absolutist city authorities was complete, the war had also shown them that they depended very much on their rural subjects. Soon after the war, the ruling aristocrats instituted a series of reforms and even lowered some taxes, thus fulfilling some of the peasants' original fiscal demands. In the long term, the peasant war of 1653 prevented Switzerland from an excessive implementation of absolutism as occurred in France during the reign of Louis XIV.\n\nThe Old Swiss Confederacy in the 17th century was a federation of thirteen largely independent cantons. The federation comprised rural cantons as well as city states that had expanded their territories into the countryside by political and military means at the cost of the previously ruling liege lords. The cities just took over the preexisting administrative structures. In these city cantons, the city councils ruled the countryside; they held the judicial rights and also appointed the district sheriffs (\"Landvögte\").\n\nRural and urban cantons had the same standing in the federation. Each canton was sovereign within its territory, pursuing its own foreign policy and also minting its own money. The diet and central council of the federation, the \"Tagsatzung\", held no real power and served more as an instrument of coordination. The reformation in the early 16th century had led to a confessional division amongst the cantons: the central Swiss cantons including Lucerne had remained Catholic, while Zürich, Bern, Basel, Schaffhausen, and also the city of St. Gallen had become Protestant. The \"Tagsatzung\" was often paralysed by disagreements between the equally strong factions of the Catholic and Protestant sides.\n\nTerritories that had been conquered since the early 15th century were governed as condominiums by the cantons. Reeves for these territories were assigned by the \"Tagsatzung\" for a period of two years; the posts changed bi-annually between the cantons. The Aargau had been annexed in 1415. The western part belonged to Bern, while the eastern part comprised the two condominiums of the former County of Baden in the north and the \"Freie Ämter\" (\"Free Districts\") in the south. The Free Districts had been forcibly recatholized after the Reformation in Switzerland, and the Catholic cantons, especially Lucerne, Zug, and Uri considered these districts part of their sphere of influence and the reeves typically came from these cantons. The Thurgau, which had been annexed in 1460, was also a condominium of the Confederacy.\n\nAt its root, the peasant war of 1653 was caused by the rapidly changing economic circumstances after the end of the Thirty Years' War. The Swiss Confederacy had been spared from all belligerent action; the Swiss peasants generally had profited from the wartime economy as they had been able to export their agrarian products at higher prices than before. After the Peace of Westphalia, the southern German economy recovered quickly, the Swiss exports dwindled, and the prices for agrarian products dropped. Many Swiss peasants, who had raised mortgages during the boom at wartime, suddenly faced financial problems.\n\nAt the same time the war had since the 1620s caused significant expenses for the cities, e.g. for building better defenses such as new bastions. A significant source of income for the cantons ran dry: their financial means exhausted by the war, France and Spain no longer paid the \"Pensions\", the agreed sums in return for the cantons providing them with mercenary regiments. The city authorities tried to compensate for this and to cover their expenses on the one hand by increasing the taxes or inventing new ones and on the other hand by minting less valuable copper coins called \"Batzen\" that had the same face value as the previously minted silver money. The population began hoarding the silver coins, and the cheap copper money that remained in circulation continually lost in purchasing power. Zürich, Basel, and the central Swiss cantons therefore began already in 1623 to mint more valuable coins again. Bern and also Solothurn and Fribourg set a compulsory fixed exchange rate between copper and silver money instead, but this measure did not break the \"de facto\" devaluation. At the end of the war, the population thus faced both a postwar depression and a high inflation, combined with high taxes. This financial crisis led to a series of tax revolts in several cantons of the Confederacy, for instance 1629–36 in Lucerne, 1641 in Bern, or 1645/46 in Zürich. The uprising in 1653 continued this series, but would take the conflict to an unprecedented level.\n\nSince the 15th century, the political power in the city cantons had become more and more concentrated in the hands of a few urban families, who increasingly saw their public offices as hereditary positions and who developed aristocratic and absolutist attitudes. Slowly, an urban oligarchy of magistrates had formed. This concentration of power in the city cantons in a small urban élite caused a veritable \"participatory crisis\" (Suter). The rural population increasingly was subject to decrees issued without their consent that restricted their rights of old and also their social and cultural freedom.\n\nAt the beginning of December 1652, Bern devalued its copper \"Batzen\" by 50% to adjust its face value to its intrinsic value to combat the inflation. The authorities set a term of only three days to exchange the copper coins at the old rate against more stable gold or silver money. Not many people could thus take advantage of this exchange offer, and for most—and in particular the rural population—half their fortunes just vanished. The other cantons soon followed suit and similarly devalued the Bernese copper money. The situation was most dire in the Lucerne Entlebuch valley, where the Bernese \"Batzen\" were in widespread usage. The financial situation of many a peasant became unsustainable. Insider deals of the ruling magistrates of Lucerne furthered the unrest among the population. The peasants of the Entlebuch valley, led by Hans Emmenegger from Schüpfheim and Christian Schybi from Escholzmatt, sent a delegation to Lucerne to demand remedies, but the city council refused to even hear them. The enraged peasants organized a general assembly (\"Landsgemeinde\") of the population of the valley at Heiligkreuz, in spite of such assemblies being illegal as the authorities' laws of the time denied the freedom of assembly. The assembly, which took place after the mass on February 10, 1653, decided to suspend all tax payments until the authorities in Lucerne fulfilled their demands by reducing taxes and abolishing some of them altogether, such as the taxes on salt, cattle, and horse trades.\n\nThe authorities of Lucerne were not willing to grant the population's demands, but neither did they manage to subdue this insurrection. The large majority of the rural districts of the canton of Lucerne sided with the peasants of the Entlebuch valley in an alliance concluded at Wolhusen on February 26, 1653. At the beginning of March, the people of the neighbouring Bernese Emmental valley joined their cause, addressing similar demands at the Bernese authorities. Both cantons called upon the other uninvolved members of the Old Swiss Confederacy to mediate in the conflict, but at the same time, the \"Tagsatzung\", the diet of the cantons' governments, also began to prepare for a military resolution. Troops from Schaffhausen and Basel were sent towards the Aargau, but this immediately solicited an armed resistance amongst the population such that the troops had to withdraw.\n\nOn March 18, 1653, the mediating Catholic central Swiss cantons proposed in Lucerne a resolution that fulfilled most of the peasants' demands, especially the fiscal ones. In Bern, a similar compromise was proposed by a Protestant delegation from Zürich under the direction of the mayor of Zürich, Johann Heinrich Waser, on April 4, 1653. The Bernese Emmental and most of the districts of the canton of Lucerne accepted these resolutions and their representatives swore new oaths of fealty. But the people in the Entlebuch valley did not accept the authorities' terms, as these—besides offering some tax reliefs—criminalized the insurrection and called for the punishment of the leaders. At a meeting at Signau on April 10, 1653, the delegates from the Entlebuch convinced their neighbours in the Emmental: the assembly decided not to honor the new oaths its representatives had sworn in Bern.\n\nThe negotiations between the city authorities and the peasants were not continued. While the authorities debated at the \"Tagsatzung\" how to deal with the insurrection, the peasants worked to gain support for their cause amongst the rural population of other regions and lobbied for a formal alliance. A peasant delegation sent to Zürich was turned back promptly: the city authorities, who had put down local unrests in their territory already in 1645 and again in 1646, had already recognized the danger of the agitation. On April 23, 1653, representatives of the people of the countryside of Lucerne, Bern, Basel, and Solothurn met at Sumiswald and concluded an alliance to help each other to achieve their goals. A week later, they met again at Huttwil, where they renewed that alliance and elected Niklaus Leuenberger from Rüderswil in the Emmental as their leader.\n\nOn May 14, 1653, the peasants met again at a \"Landsgemeinde\" at Huttwil and formalized their alliance as the \"League of Huttwil\" by signing a written contract in the style of the old \"Bundesbriefe\" of the Old Swiss Confederacy. The treaty clearly established the league as a separate political entity that considered itself equal to and independent from the cities. The tax revolt had become an independence movement, based ideologically on the traditional Swiss founding legends, especially on the legend of William Tell. Legally, the peasants justified their assemblies and their union by the rights of old and in particular the \"Stanser Verkommnis\" of 1481, one of the important coalition treaties of the Old Swiss Confederacy.\n\nThe peasants by then had assumed full sovereignty over the territory they controlled. They refused to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the city authorities and also had the military control over the area. The Huttwil League openly declared its intention to expand until it encompassed the rural population in the whole Confederacy. The majority of the rural population supported the rebellion; the dissenting minority was silenced by threats of violence and sometimes violence indeed. Communications between the cities were interrupted, official envoys were shaken down and ships on the rivers were captured. The peasants even sent a letter to the French ambassador at Solothurn assuring the French king Louis XIV of their good intentions.\n\nThe confessional conflicts that dominated the relations between the ruling city authorities were only secondary to the peasants of the Huttwil league. The peasant alliance bridged the confessional divide, uniting Catholic people from the Entlebuch and from Solothurn with Protestant peasants from the Emmental and from Basel. The treaty of Huttwil explicitly recognized this biconfessionalism. The cities remained in all their manoeuvring and negotiations for military support within their respective confessional spheres: Catholic Lucerne had requested mediation and then military help from the Catholic central Swiss cantons, while Protestant Bern had turned to Protestant Zürich for help. The distrust between the authorities of the Catholic and Protestant cantons was so deep that none would allow troops of the other confession to operate on their territories.\n\nBoth sides began to prepare openly for an armed conflict. The cities faced the problem that their armies were militias, recruited from the rural population of their subject territories, but that precisely this rural population had turned against them. Bern began raising troops in the Vaud and the Bernese Oberland, two regions unaffected by the uprising. The authorities of Bern and Lucerne were supported by the other cantons at the \"Tagsatzung\". In a dispatch from Zürich, the uprising was termed for the first time a \"revolution\".\n\nOn May 18, 1653, the peasants delivered ultimatums to Bern and Lucerne and raised 16,000 troops. When the city of Bern replied with a protest note, the peasants marched to Bern under the leadership of Leuenberger, arriving on May 22, 1653. A second army led by Emmenegger laid siege to Lucerne. The city authorities were unprepared for an armed conflict and immediately engaged in negotiations. Within days, peace agreements were concluded. In the peace on the Murifeld (\"Murifeldfrieden\", named after the field just outside Bern where the peasant army's camp lay) signed by Leuenberger and the mayor of Bern, Niklaus Dachselhofer, the city council of Bern promised on May 28, 1653, to fulfill the peasants' fiscal demands in return for the dissolution of the Huttwil League. In view of this development, the city of Lucerne and the besieging peasants agreed on a truce. Leuenberger's army lifted the siege of Bern and retreated, but the people refused to follow their leaders and objected to dissolving the Huttwil League.\n\nOn May 30, 1653, following an earlier resolution of the \"Tagsatzung\" and earlier Bernese demands, Zürich assembled an army with recruits from its own territories, from the Thurgau, and from Schaffhausen under the command of Conrad Werdmüller with the task to break any armed resistance once and for all times. Some 8,000 men with 800 horses and 18 cannons marched towards the Aargau. Already three days later, Werdmüller's army controlled the important crossing of the river Reuss at Mellingen. In the hills around the nearby villages Wohlenschwil and Othmarsingen a peasant army of some 24,000 men assembled, led by Leuenberger and Schybi. A peasant delegation tried to negotiate with Werdmüller, showing him the peace treaty concluded on the Murifeld. Werdmüller, who had been until then unaware of this treaty that had been signed only days before, refused to acknowledge the validity of the contract and demanded the unconditional surrender of the peasants. Thus rebutted, the peasants attacked Werdmüller's troops on June 3, 1653, but being poorly equipped and lacking any artillery, they were defeated decisively in the Battle of Wohlenschwil. The peasants were forced to agree to the peace of Mellingen, which annulled the Huttwil League. The peasant troops returned home and an amnesty was declared, except for the leaders of the movement.\n\nBernese troops under the command of Sigmund von Erlach then advanced from Bern to the Aargau to meet the forces of Zürich. Under this double pressure, the peasants' resistance collapsed. Von Erlach's troops numbered about 6,000 men and 19 cannons. The operation was a veritable punitive expedition: the troops plundered the villages along their way and even razed the defenses of the small town of Wiedlisbach, which lost its town privileges and was declared a village again. On June 7, 1653, the Bernese army met with a troop of about 2,000 men of Leuenberger's army who were on their way back from Wohlenschwil. The peasants retreated to Herzogenbuchsee, where they were defeated by von Erlach's troops; the little town went up in flames in the course of the battle. Niklaus Leuenberger fled and went hiding, but he was betrayed by a neighbour and was apprehended by the Bernese district sheriff Samuel Tribolet on June 9, 1653.\n\nThe Entlebuch valley, where the revolt had begun, resisted a little longer. Peasant troops under the command of Schybi tried in vain on June 5, 1653, to gain the bridge at Gisikon, held by a joint army of the city of Lucerne and the central Swiss cantons commanded by Sebastian Peregrin Zwyer of Uri. In the following weeks, Zwyer's troops slowly advanced through the valley, until they controlled it completely by June 20, 1653. Schybi was captured a few days later and incarcerated at Sursee.\n\nThe city authorities proceeded to punish severely the leaders of the Huttwil League. Bern did not accept the terms of the peace of Melligen with its amnesty, claiming the treaty was invalid on its territory, and cracked down hard on the rural population. The peasants were fined large sums and were made to cover the expenses for the military operations. The peace of the Murifeld was declared null and void by the Bernese city council, as was the Huttwil League. The rural population was disarmed. Many of the exponents of the movement were incarcerated, tortured, and finally sentenced to death or to hard labour on galleys, or exiled. Christian Schybi was executed at Sursee on July 9, 1653. Niklaus Leuenberger was beheaded and quartered at Bern on September 6, 1653; his head was nailed at the gallows together with one of the four copies of the \"Bundesbrief\" of the Huttwil League. Punishment was hardest in the canton of Bern, where 23 death sentences were handed down and numerous other prominent peasants were executed in courts-martial by von Erlach's army, compared to eight and seven death sentences in Lucerne and Basel, respectively.\n\nAlthough the authorities had won a total military victory, they refrained from inflicting further draconian measures on the general population. The whole affair had clearly demonstrated that the cities depended on the support of their rural subjects. Putting down the insurrection had been achieved only with difficulties, and only with the help of troops from Zürich and Uri. Had the peasants succeeded to extend the Huttwil League to encompass the countryside of Zürich, the outcome of the conflict might have been different. The city authorities were well aware of their essentially lucky escape, and their actions in the following years reflect it. While they took steps to disempower the rural population politically, they also fulfilled many of the peasants original fiscal demands, alleviating the economic pressure on them. Tax reforms were passed, to the point that for instance in the canton of Lucerne the overall taxation of the population decreased in the second half of the 17th century.\n\nSuter even concludes that the peasant war of 1653 thwarted a further advancement of absolutist trends in Switzerland and prevented a development similar to that which occurred in France following the Fronde. The authorities of the Swiss cantons had to act much more carefully and were forced to respect their rural subjects. The Bernese for instance instructed their district sheriffs to employ a far less pompous and less authoritarian attitude to minimize the conflict potential. The city council even opened legal procedures against a few of its district sheriffs against whom there were many complaints from the rural population, accusing them of corruption, incompetence, and unjustified enrichment. The district sheriff of Trachselwald, the same Samuel Tribolet who had captured Niklaus Leuenberger, was dismissed, tried, and exiled in early 1654. Abraham Stanyan, who had been ambassador of England in Bern from 1705 to 1713, published in 1714 an extensive treatise entitled \"An account of Switzerland\", in which he described the authorities' rule as particularly mild, mentioning explicitly the low taxation in comparison to other European states and giving as the reason for the comparatively soft-gloved government the fear of rebellions.\n\nIn the decades following the peasant war the city authorities tried to suppress the memory of this nearly successful revolt. Resistance symbols like the flags or the weapons used by the peasants, in particular their typical clubs with nails on the hitting end (called \"(Bauern-) Knüttel\"), were outlawed, confiscated, and destroyed. Documents such as the \"Bundesbriefe\" of Huttwil were stashed away in the vaults of the city archives. Any public remembrances or pilgrimages to the places where the leaders had been executed were forbidden and carried the death penalty, as did the singing of the peasants' war songs. Bern was particularly active in trying to censor the memories of the event and also tried to suppress images of the peasant leaders. Historic texts written during the Ancien Régime of Switzerland generally follow the official diction and mention the peasant war, if they do so at all, only briefly and in negative terms. Works with differing viewpoints were often prohibited. The censorship was not entirely successful; in private, the rural population kept the memories of 1653 alive, and various accounts of the events were printed in Germany.\nIn the 19th century, the official view was increasingly questioned. The aristocratic Ancien Régime had been weakened severely during the Napoleonic Wars, when the Confederacy had been a French satellite state. The episode of the Helvetic Republic, short-lived as it had been, had instilled democratic ideals in the population. The restauration of the Ancien Régime after the end of the Napoleonic era proved to be only temporary, until Switzerland became a federal state in 1848 when its first democratic constitution was passed. During the restoration, democratic publishers instrumented and interpreted the history of the peasant war as an allegory on the then current struggle for democracy, seeing the peasant war of 1653 as an early precursor of their own efforts to overcome the authoritarian regime. Well-known examples are the illustrations by Martin Disteli from 1839/40, who used scenes from the peasant war in such allegoric ways.\n\nThe official view remained ambivalent at best, though. A scene devoted to the peasant war of 1653 in a theatre production for the Swiss sexacentennial celebrations in 1891, for instance, was cut on the demands of the organizers. The first statues to honor the peasants of 1653 and their leaders were erected in 1903 on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of the peasant war. A monument honoring Schybi and Emmenegger was unveiled at Escholzmatt on July 26, 1903, at Rüderswil, a statue in honor of Leuenberger was erected the same year, and at Liestal an obelisk honoring the peasant victims of the war was inaugurated on September 25, 1904. More statues and plaques were installed in various other places at the tricentennial of the war in 1953, for instance a relief showing Schybi in a chapel at Sursee, where the peasant leader had been incarcerated.\n\nIdeological instrumentalizations of the peasant war occurred even in the 20th century. Hans Mühlestein, a Swiss Marxist historian, interpreted the events of 1653 in the 1940s and 1950s as an early bourgeois revolution of a progressive bourgeoisie, fitting the Marxist concept of \"class struggle\"; a view considered untenable by many later historians.\n\nModern historians generally agree that the peasant war was an important event in Swiss history, and also in comparison to other popular revolts in late medieval Europe. Such revolts were rather common at the time and often were motivated by excessive taxation. The peasant war of 1653 stands out as a culminative end point in Switzerland for three reasons:\n\nIn 2003, the city of Bern celebrated the 650th anniversary of its adherence to the Old Swiss Confederacy with many events, including a dedicated exposition at the Historical Museum that ran for several months and the publication of the history schoolbook \"Berns mutige Zeit\". The simultaneous 350-year anniversary of the peasant war was reflected in the city only in a few newspaper articles, but it was widely celebrated in the coutryside with speeches, colloquia, and an ambitious and very successful open-air theatre production at Eggiwil in the Emmental.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28300080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28300080", "title": "Taxation in premodern China", "text": "Taxation in premodern China\n\nTaxation in premodern China varied greatly over time. Overall, the most important source of state revenue was the tax on agriculture, or land tax. During some dynasties, the government also imposed state monopolies which became important sources of revenue for the government. The monopoly on salt was especially lucrative and stable. Commercial taxes were generally quite low, except in times of war. Other means of state revenues consisted of inflation, forced labor (the corvee), and expropriation of rich merchants and landowners. Below is a chart of the sources of state revenue in Imperial China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132604", "title": "Third Cinema", "text": "Third Cinema\n\nThird Cinema () is a Latin American film movement that started in the 1960s–70s which decries neocolonialism, the capitalist system, and the Hollywood model of cinema as mere entertainment to make money. The term was coined in the manifesto \"Hacia un tercer cine\" (\"Toward a Third Cinema\"), written in the late 1960s by Argentine filmmakers Fernando Solanas and Octavio Getino, members of the \"Grupo Cine Liberación\" and published in 1969 in the cinema journal \"Tricontinental\" by the OSPAAAL (Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America).\n\nSolanas and Getino's manifesto considers 'First Cinema' to be the Hollywood production model that idealizes bourgeois values to a passive audience through escapist spectacle and individual characters. 'Second Cinema' is the European art film, which rejects Hollywood conventions but is centred on the individual expression of the auteur director. Third Cinema is meant to be non-commercialized, challenging Hollywood's model. Third Cinema rejects the view of cinema as a vehicle for personal expression, seeing the director instead as part of a collective; it appeals to the masses by presenting the truth and inspiring revolutionary activism. Solanas and Getino argue that traditional exhibition models also need to be avoided: the films should be screened clandestinely, both in order to avoid censorship and commercial networks, but also so that the viewer must take a risk to see them.\n\nThere are still some difficulties to clearly define what is considered \"First Cinema\" versus \"Third Cinema\". For example, Bollywood, one of the largest centres of film production in the world, can be viewed as resistance against \"First Cinema\" due to political, cultural and aesthetic differences, but at the same time it can also be said that Bollywood is a popular commercialized industry\n\nThere are four manifestos accredited to beginning the genre of Third Cinema: Glauber Rocha’s “Aesthetic of Hunger” (1965), Julio García Espinosa’s “For an Imperfect Cinema” (1969), “Problems of Form and Content in Revolutionary Cinema” (1976) by Jorge Sanjinés, and finally “Toward a Third Cinema” (1969) by Fernando Solanas and Octavio Getino. Although all four define the broad and far reaching genre, Solanas and Getino’s “Toward a Third Cinema” is well known for its political stance and outline of the genre.\n\nExplaining the neo-colonialist dilemma and the need for “a cinema of subversion” or “a revolutionary cinema”, “Toward a Third Cinema” begins by explaining the dilemma that the anti-imperialist film-maker is left with a paradoxical need to survive within as well as subvert “the System”.“Third cinema is, in our opinion, the cinema that recognizes in that struggle the most gigantic cultural, scientific, and artistic manifestation of our time, the great possibility of constructing a liberated personality with each people as the starting point – in a word, the decolonization of culture.”Solanas and Getino define the problem with 'the System' (the political and cultural authorities in place) as being one that reduces film to a commodity that exists to fill the needs of the film industry that creates them—mainly in the United States. This “spectator cinema” continues a lack of awareness within the masses of a difference between class interests or “that of the rulers and that of the nation”. To the authors, films of 'the System' do not function to change or move the culture forward; they function to maintain it.\n\nWith the advancement of technology in film in the late 1960s (simplification of cameras and tape recorders, rapid film that can be shot in normal light, automatic light meters, improved audio/visual synchronization), Solanas and Getino argue that an alternative cinema is finally possible. The authors cite the Imperfect Cinema movement in Cuba, Cinegiornali liberi in Italy, Zengakuren documentaries in Japan as proof that it is already happening.\n\nUrging the need to further politicize and experiment with the format of film—mainly the documentary—Solanas and Getino illustrate the somewhat obscure and non-universal steps that must be taken to make “revolutionary cinema”:“Real alternatives differing from those offered by the System are only possible if one of two requirements is fulfilled: making films that the System cannot assimilate and which are foreign to its needs, or making films that directly and explicitly set out to fight the System.”\n\nParadoxically, Solanas and Getino continue to state that it is not enough to simply rebel against 'the System'. The manifesto uses Jean-Luc Godard and the French New Wave throughout as a formidable example of a group which failed to properly to subvert 'the System'. Referring to it as “second cinema” or “author's cinema”, the problem begins with the genre's attempt to exist parallel, be distributed by, and funded by 'the System'. Solanas and Getino quote Godard's self-description as being 'trapped inside the fortress' and refer to the metaphor throughout the manifesto.\n\nBecause of this paradox of subversion but need for distinctions between commodified rebellion and “the cinema of revolution”, Solanas and Getino recognize that film-makers must function like a guerilla unit, one that “cannot grow strong without military structures and command concepts.” The authors also recognize that the difficulties encountered by those attempting to make revolutionary cinema will stem mainly from its need to work as a synchronized unit. Claiming that the only solution to these difficulties is common awareness of the basics of interpersonal relationships, Solanas and Getino go further to state that “The myth of the irreplaceable technicians must be exploded.”\n\nThe guerilla-film unit requires that all members have general knowledge of the equipment being used and caution that any failure in a production will be ten-fold that of a first cinema production. This condition—based on the fact that monetary support will be slim and come mainly from the group itself—also requires that members of the guerilla-film unit be wary and maintain an amount of silence not custom to conventional film-making.“The success of the work depends [on]…permanent wariness, a condition that is difficult to achieve in a situation in which apparently nothing is happening and the film-maker has been accustomed to telling all…because the bourgeoisie has trained him precisely on such a basis of prestige and promotion.”\n\nThe manifesto concludes with an explanation for how to best distribute third cinema films. Using their own experience with \"La Hora de los Hornos (The Hour of the Furnaces)\", Solanas and Getino share that the most intellectually profitable showings were followed by group discussions. The following elements (Solanas and Getino even refer to them as mise en scène) that “reinforce the themes of the films, the climate of the showing, the ‘disinhibiting’ of the participants, and the dialogue”:\nWhen distributed correctly, third cinema films will result in the audience members becoming what Solanas and Getino refer to as “man-actor-accomplices” as they become crucial to the film achieving its goal to transform society. It is only when the “man-actor-accomplice” responds to the film that third cinema becomes effective.“Freeing a forbidden truth means setting free the possibility of indignation and subversion. Our truth, that of the new man who builds himself by getting rid of all the defects that still weigh him down, is a bomb of inexhaustible power and, at the same time, the only real possibility of life.”\n\nThird Cinema manifestos and theories evolved in the 1960s and 1970s as a response to the social, political, and economic realities in Latin American countries which were experiencing oppression from perceived Neo-colonial policies. In their manifesto, Solana and Getino describe Third Cinema as a cinematic movement and a dramatic alternative to First Cinema, which was produced in Hollywood, for the purpose of entertaining its audiences; and from Second Cinema that increased the author’s liberty of expression. Fundamentally different, Third Cinema films sought to inspire revolution against class, racial and gender inequalities. Spectators were called upon to reflect on social injustices and the process by which their realities occurred, and to take action to transform their conditions. Even though Third Cinema films arose during revolutionary eras in Latin America and other countries, this filmmaking is still influential today. This style of filmmaking includes a radical form of production, distribution and exhibition that seeks to expose the living conditions of people at the grassroots level.\n\nPurpose and Goals of Third Cinema\nThird Cinema seeks to expose the process by which oppression occurs; and to criticize those responsible for social inequality in a country or community.\nSome of the goals of Third Cinema are:\n\nProduction\nDue to their political nature, Third Cinema films were often censored and therefore, the production and distribution of these films were innovative. Films used documentary clips, news reels, photographs, video clips, interviews and/or statistics and in some cases, non-professional actors. These production elements are combined in an inventive manner to create a message that is specific to its local audience. The staff in production share all aspects of the production process by working collectively. In Third Cinema, for example, a Director can be the Cameraman, the Photographer or the Writer at different phases of the production. Since Third Cinema films were highly politicized, they often lacked the funding and support needed for production or distribution and instead sought funding outside government agencies or traditional financing opportunities available to commercial films. Other unique aspects of Third Cinema film production is the use of their local natural landscape for film shootings often in parts of the country not previously seen. This unique feature was augmented by highlighting the local history and culture of its nation.\n\nThird Cinema’s critique and resistance of Hollywood’s imperialist “spectator” cinema also opened for differing representations of women in film. While feminist film movements in the United States in the 1970s critiqued the eurocentric and heteronormative sexism within the First-World, the intersection of heterosexism with racism and imperialism seemed to get little attention from mainstream film journals. Because of the reluctance of First-World feminists to acknowledge the importance of nationalism and geographic identity within differing struggles of women, the films made by the women of Third Cinema were usually seen as “burdened” from the Western feminist perspective by these identities.“Notions of nation and race, along with community-based work, are implicitly dismissed as both too “specific” to qualify for the theoretical realm of “feminist theory” and as too “inclusive” in their concern for nation and race that they presumably “lose sight” of feminism.”Along with the advancement and availability of technology, and the revolutionary tactics proposed by Third Cinema, third-worldist feminist film-makers began to tell their own stories. Because the genre proposed a non-homogeneous approach to cinema (one which allowed variation from region to region and intersection between fiction and documentary), differing stories of “womanhood” and women’s position within revolutions could be told. Lebanese film director Heiny Srour commented in one interview:“Those of us from the Third World have to reject the ideas of film narration based on the 19th century bourgeois novel with its commitment to harmony. Our societies have been too lacerated and fractured by colonial powers to fit into those neat scenarios.” Notable films include Sarah Maldoror’s \"Sambizanga\" (Mozambique, 1972) which takes place in Angola where a woman awakens to “revolutionary consciousness” to the struggle of the ruling party the MPLA. In Heiny Srour’s documentary \"Saat al Tahrir (The Hour of Liberation)\" (Oman, 1973) followed women fighters during the revolution in Oman. Srour’s 1984 film \"Leila wal dhiab\" (\"Leila and the Wolves\") (Lebanon) followed the role of women in the Palestine Liberation Movement. Helena Solberg Ladd’s \"Nicaragua Up From the Ashes\" (U.S. 1982) documents the role of women in the Sandinista revolution. Sara Gomez’s \"De cierta manera (One Way or Another)\" epitomizes Third Cinema’s involvement in the intersection of fiction and documentary as it gives a feminist critique of the Cuban revolution.\n\nThis is an incomplete list and still does not reflect the number of film-makers that have contributed to Third Cinema.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "704465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704465", "title": "Tiananmen Mothers", "text": "Tiananmen Mothers\n\nThe Tiananmen Mothers is a group of Chinese democracy activists promoting a change in the government's position over the suppression of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. It is led by Ding Zilin, a retired university professor whose teenage son was shot and killed by government troops during the protests. The group – comprising the parents, friends and relatives of victims of the massacre – formed in September 1989 when Ding, along with her husband Jiang Peikun, met another mother, Zhang Xianling, whose 19-year-old son was also killed on June 4, 1989. As well as campaigning, the group also disseminates information about the events to the public, including through the internet. Currently, the group consists of relatives of 125 individuals killed during the protests. For her efforts, Ding has been hailed as an \"advocate for the dead\".\n\nA large group of Beijing-based student activists (along with nearby people) were shot on the orders of Deng Xiaoping, then a chief military commander of People's Liberation Army. This happened during the summer of 1989, centered around sunset in the evening on June 4. Beijing medical doctors from the very beginning recall critically injured patients being carried into hospitals of nearly all specialties, throughout the night continuing into noon.\n\nPrior to June 1989, Ding Zilin was a Philosophy professor at the People's University and a member of the Communist Party of China. On June 3, 1989, her 17-year-old son Jiang Jielian was killed on his way to Tiananmen Square. Ding launched a one-woman campaign to establish what had happened to her son and those who were killed that night. The government had put her under surveillance and Ding experienced harassment as she met with other victims families. Describing the organisation, Ding announced that the group were \"a common group of citizens brought together by a shared fate and suffering\".\n\nDespite the expansion of the group, many Chinese intellectuals had kept away from the movement, as they did with the Democracy Wall movement in the late 1970s. One exception was Wu Zuguang, who advocated a reversal of the governments position at a meeting of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference in 1997, and he did not suffer any repercussions for his comments because of his age. Other members of the group included prominent student Jiang Qisheng, a graduate of the Beijing Institute of Aeronautics who became head of the Beijing Student Autonomous Federation which acted in conjunction with other universities and formed part of a delegation that met with Premier Li Peng to try and resolve the Tiananmen protests peacefully. He was jailed for 18 months and upon his release in February 1991, was denied regular employment.\n\nFurther promoting their campaign, members of the Tiananmen Mothers sought to gain the attention of the international media. In a May 1991 interview with ABC, Ding and Zhang Xianling condemned the actions of the Chinese government and in particular Premier Li Peng who claimed that the crackdown was necessary in order to maintain social stability. She also called on people of conscience not to forget those who had lost their lives. Three years later in 1994, and on the fifth anniversary of the crackdown, Ding published \"The Factual Account of a Search for the June 4 Victims\" listing 96 individuals who had been killed. By the tenth anniversary on June 4, 1999, she had reported 155 deaths and 65 who were injured but noted that these were \"only the tip of the iceberg... but at least it is visible.\"\n\nDing's regular public campaigning, including public petitions and lawsuits against the government, saw her expelled from the party in May 1992, and both Ding and her husband, also a professor at the university, were forced into retirement in 1993. The Tiananmen Mothers movement has also inspired other families of political prisoners to campaign for their release. Since then, a few dozen families meet together regularly on every anniversary of the crackdown, despite government intimidation. Ding and other members have occasionally been detained by authorities as a result of their actions.\n\nThe Chinese government currently views the protests as a \"counterrevolutionary uprising\". The Tiananmen Mothers group, which was conducted without official approval, put forward a five-point demand to the Chinese government in relation to the protest:\n\n\nThe group also wants the Chinese government to name the dead, compensate families and punish those responsible. The government made a payout of 70,000 yuan for the first time in 2006 to one of the victims families. The move was welcomed by Zilin, though she said it was unlikely to indicate a change in the government's position.\n\nThe Tiananmen Mothers have made many public appeals, challenging the government. They protested to the National People's Congress, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the judiciary and the population. The group has also opened up contacts with UN Human Rights Council and foreign media, issuing a video demanding the government reassess Tiananmen. On the tenth anniversary, despite memories of the event fading due to strong government censorship, Jiang Qisheng, who had since been released, drafted a letter along with fifteen others appealing for quiet commemoration by lighting candles in cities across China. He played a major role in organising the event, posting flyers on lampposts calling on the population to \"light a myriad of candles to collectively commemorate the brave spirits of June Fourth\" and as a result, several petitions to hold protest were submitted, but were rejected by government authorities. Jiang was arrested on shortly before the anniversary; in court on November 1, 1999, he defended himself, maintaining he was exercising freedom of speech and recalling a previous reversal of the government's term \"counterrevolutionary\" after the Gang of Four and Cultural Revolution. He urged the government not to imprison people for expressing their views, \"Simply by writing and talking, do I commit such a crime against heaven that I must be put to death?\" and his lawyer, Mao Shaoping argued that the group's activities did not amount to \"subversion of state power\". Jiang was charged and released from prison on May 19, 2003.\n\nDespite Jiang's arrest, Ding remained undeterred. On June 4, 1999, the group presented a petition signed by 108 relatives to the Supreme People's Procuratorate, asking for a legal ruling on the deaths of the protestors. The petition contained evidence they had collected including testimonies and names of the dead and injured. They asserted that they were exercising their political rights, and not engaging in any illegal activities. The movement still continues, receiving warnings not to commemorate and undergoing increased surveillance around June 3–4 every year. An increasing number of dissidents and former intellectuals from the party, including Hu Yaobangs former secretary and Huang Qi have joined the group, and have been expelled from the establishment as a result.\n\nThe organisation has released a version of the same every year since the protests. In 2006, the Tiananmen Mothers called for \"a process of truth and reconciliation\" over what the government did in Tiananmen Square. In 2009, they urged the government to \"break the taboo\" surrounding the incident. The Tiananmen Mothers website is blocked by internet censors in China.\n\nAnalysts say pressure by groups like the Tiananmen Mothers may eventually lead to some acknowledgment of the deaths during the crackdown, such as a plaque placed on the square, but most agree that will not come soon.\n\nDing Zilin, Zhang Xianling, who lost her 19-year-old son, and Huang Jinping, who lost her 30-year-old husband were detained in March 2004. Authorities first denied the arrests, but later said they had been detained for engaging in what were described as illegal activities sponsored by overseas forces. They were released later in the week but remained under close surveillance in the run-up to the 15th anniversary of the protests.\n\nThe women have been under what advocates describe as house arrest. All their calls are monitored and they are told not to talk to other activists, with foreign media, and with human rights organizations.\n\nOn June 4, 2007, the \"Chengdu Evening News\" ran a one-page line commemorating the Tiananmen Mothers, stating, \"Saluting the strong mothers of June 4th victims.\" Officials at the newspaper refused to answer questions regarding the advert. It was later suggested that the person who ran the advert was unaware of the significance of \"6/4\", instead being told it was related to a mining disaster that took place. Three editors were later fired from the paper.\n\n\nBooks\n\nNews reports\n"}
{"id": "3596535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3596535", "title": "Urban village", "text": "Urban village\n\nIn urban planning and design, an urban village is an urban development typically characterized by medium-density housing, mixed use zoning, good public transit and an emphasis on pedestrianization and public space.\n\nUrban villages are seen to provide an alternative to recent patterns of urban development in many cities, especially decentralization and urban sprawl. They are generally purported to:\n\nThe concept of urban villages was formally born in Britain in the late 1980s with the establishment of the Urban Villages Group (UVG). Following pressure from the UVG, the concept was prioritized in British national planning policy between 1997 and 1999. Urban villages also come in the form of suburbs of metropolitan areas that are politically designated as villages.\n\nUrban village ideals have been applied to new greenfield and brownfield developments and urban renewal projects. The concept has been widely adopted in many countries and used by both government development agencies as well as private enterprise as a guiding concept for many projects.\n\nThe ideas of the urban commentator Jane Jacobs are widely regarded as having had the largest influence on the urban village concept. Jacobs rejected the modernist views that dominated urban planning and architecture in the 1950s-60s and constructed an alternative philosophy that values traditional neighborhoods and the role of the inner city. Proponents believe that urban villages provide a viable alternative to the social ills that characterize modernism in cities, such as freeways and high-rise estates.\n\nAnother strong impetus for urban villages has been growing disenchantment with the urban sprawl that has characterized the development of many cities since World War II. Urban villages are seen to create self-contained communities that reduce the need to travel large distances and reduce the subsequent reliance on the automobile. The decline of noxious industry and the emergence of the service economy allows the mixing of employment and residential activities without detriment to residents. This is in contrast to the single-use zoning that helped fuel urban sprawl during the industrial and manufacturing eras. Through more consolidated development, urban villages can reduce the intrusion of urban growth on the countryside. These environmental consequences of urban sprawl have come to dominate discussion promoting urban villages in recent years. \n\nUrban villages are widely seen to provide a solution to the demise of community that is often associated with modernism and sprawl. The concept uses the social and physical morphology of the traditional rural village as an inspiration for creating better functioning communities. The urban village movement has been influenced by Ebenezer Howard’s Garden City ideals which also emphasize environmental determinism in relation to community. Urban design techniques such as public space and pedestrianization are employed to facilitate the development of community by encouraging human interaction. This philosophy shares many attributes with the new urbanism school of thought.\n\nMany urban village developments, both Government and privately initiated, have been seen to depart from the original ideals of the concept. Private developments often use the ‘urban village’ label as an advertising pitch or to win Government support for their project. Many developments, although intended to create a true urban village form, have not achieved their objectives. Some planners question whether a genuine urban village has actually been built. \n\nThe objectives of urban villages are often criticized as unrealistic because they ignore broader social and economic realities. The ability to create self-contained villages is questionable as employment and activity patterns continue to become more complex. The viability of creating a variety of employment and activity within an area with a small population base can also be questioned. It has been suggested that the demise of the neighborhood community is a function of “conscious economic and social choice” rather than a product of urban form.\n\nThe limitations of the urban village concept to achieve sustainability in urban areas have also been studied in developing countries, which further emphasizes the institutional barriers against such an application in the case of the developing countries. This issue becomes more critical when we accept that the institutional landscape in rural environments is more complex than urban areas and that incompatible institutional structure of the developing countries would add to the idealistic nature of the urban village concept. \n\nSome urban commentators believe that urban villages are not a new concept and are simply a re-formulation of ideas that have been prevalent in urban planning for decades.\n\nThe following is a brief list of a few projects claimed to be urban villages that have evolved or already been completed, or are in planning stages:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8678636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8678636", "title": "Vice President of Somaliland", "text": "Vice President of Somaliland\n\nThe Vice President of Somaliland is the deputy head of state. Vice President is the constitutional successor of the President of Somaliland in case of a vacancy. \n\n"}
{"id": "3969412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3969412", "title": "Young European Movement UK", "text": "Young European Movement UK\n\nThe Young European Movement UK (YEM UK) was formed in 1972 as a nonpartisan platform for under 35s to express their opinions on Europe. It is the UK branch of the Young European Federalists (JEF) and has a close relationship with the European Movement (EM) and other partners.\n\nYEM UK has organized and been present at various events such as marches and protests. In March 2017, an anti-Brexit protest was held in Edinburgh, at which the chairman of the local branch said: \"We want to raise the issue in British and Scottish people's lives that you have lies in the referendum campaign that people were not held accountable for and, whether you voted Remain or Leave, that is a real issue.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33146473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33146473", "title": "Yukon First Nations Party", "text": "Yukon First Nations Party\n\nThe Yukon First Nation Party is a territorial First Nations political party in Yukon, Canada.\n\nIt was registered three days before the 2011 general election was called, by Gerald Dickson Sr., a member of the Kluane First Nation. Dickson created the party with the encouragement of several First Nation elders, who felt that their issues were not being heard. The party believes in sustaining the traditional laws of respect, honour, love, compassion, and harmony.\n"}
