{"id": "43338100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43338100", "title": "Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Visual Effects", "text": "Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Visual Effects\n\nThe Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Visual Effects is an annual merit by the Africa Film Academy to reward movies with the best visual effects for the year. It was introduced in 2005 as Best Special effects, and has been known as Best Visual Effects since the second edition till date except the 4th edition when it was simply called Best Effects.\n"}
{"id": "1567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1567", "title": "Ajax the Lesser", "text": "Ajax the Lesser\n\nAjax ( \"Aias\") was a Greek mythological hero, son of Oileus, the king of Locris. He was called the \"lesser\" or \"Locrian\" Ajax, to distinguish him from Ajax the Great, son of Telamon. He was the leader of the Locrian contingent during the Trojan War. He is a significant figure in Homer's \"Iliad\" and is also mentioned in the \"Odyssey\", in Virgil's \"Aeneid\" and in Euripides' \"The Trojan Women\". In Etruscan legend, he was known as \"Aivas Vilates\".\n\nAjax's mother's name was Eriopis. According to Strabo, he was born in Naryx in Locris, where Ovid calls him \"Narycius Heroes\". According to the \"Iliad\", he led his Locrians in forty ships against Troy. He is described as one of the great heroes among the Greeks. In battle, he wore a linen cuirass (), was brave and intrepid, especially skilled in throwing the spear and, next to Achilles, the swiftest of all the Greeks.\n\nIn the funeral games at the pyre of Patroclus, Ajax contended with Odysseus and Antilochus for the prize in the footrace; but Athena, who was hostile towards him and favored Odysseus, made him stumble and fall, so that he won only the second prize. \n\nIn later traditions, this Ajax is called a son of Oileus and the nymph Rhene and is also mentioned among the suitors of Helen. After the taking of Troy, he rushed into the temple of Athena, where Cassandra had taken refuge, and was embracing the statue of the goddess in supplication. Ajax violently dragged her away to the other captives. According to some writers, he raped Cassandra inside the temple. Odysseus called for Ajax's death by stoning for this crime, but Ajax saved himself by claiming innocence with an oath to Athena, clutching her statue in supplication.\n\nSince Ajax dragged a supplicant from her temple, Athena had cause to be indignant. According to the \"Bibliotheca\", no one was aware that Ajax had raped Cassandra until Calchas, the Greek seer, warned the Greeks that Athena was furious at the treatment of her priestess and she would destroy the Greek ships if they didn't kill him immediately. Despite this, Ajax managed to hide in the altar of a deity where the Greeks, fearing divine retribution should they kill him and destroy the altar, allowed him to live. When the Greeks left without killing Ajax, despite their sacrifices, Athena became so angry that she persuaded Zeus to send a storm that sank many of their ships.\n\nAs he was returning from Troy, Athena hit his ship with a thunderbolt and the vessel was wrecked on the Whirling Rocks (). But he escaped with some of his men, managing to cling onto a rock through the assistance of Poseidon. He would have been saved in spite of Athena, but he then audaciously declared that he would escape the dangers of the sea in defiance of the immortals. Offended by this presumption, Poseidon split the rock with his trident and Ajax was swallowed up by the sea. Thetis buried him when the corpse washed up on Myconos. Other versions depict a different death for Ajax, showing him dying when on his voyage home. In these versions, when Ajax came to the Capharean Rocks on the coast of Euboea, his ship was wrecked in a fierce storm, he himself was lifted up in a whirlwind and impaled with a flash of rapid fire from Athena in his chest, and his body thrust upon sharp rocks, which afterwards were called the rocks of Ajax.\n\nAfter Ajax's death, his spirit dwelt in the island of Leuce. The Opuntian Locrians worshiped Ajax as their national hero, and so great was their faith in him that when they drew up their army in battle, they always left one place open for him, believing that, although invisible to them, he was fighting for and among them. The story of Ajax was frequently made use of by ancient poets and artists, and the hero who appears on some Locrian coins with the helmet, shield, and sword is probably this Ajax.\n\nOther accounts of Ajax's death are offered by Philostratus and the scholiast on Lycophron.\n\nThe abduction of Cassandra by Ajax was frequently represented in Greek works of art, such as the chest of Cypselus described by Pausanias and in extant works.\n\n"}
{"id": "52724123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52724123", "title": "Alexsey Belan", "text": "Alexsey Belan\n\nAlexsey Alekseyevich Belan (born 27 June 1987) is a Latvian hacker on the FBI Most Wanted list and sanctioned for \"malicious cyber-enabled activities\" threatening the national security of the United States.\n\nBelan is accused of having stolen consumer data from e-commerce websites in Nevada and California, and selling that data on the underground market, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigations. These accusations include Belan's role in the 2014 Yahoo! data breach that affected 500 million user accounts. Belan's hacking of three companies allowed him to steal approximately 200 million user accounts. There is a USD$100,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.\n"}
{"id": "22198885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22198885", "title": "Allan Golston", "text": "Allan Golston\n\nAllan Golston is the president of the United States Program at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. He leads the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s five areas of strategy, policy and advocacy, and operations of a $600 million domestic program with $3.8 billion portfolio under management: K-12 Education, Post-Secondary Education, Technology Access, Special Initiatives, and Family Homelessness, Early Childhood Learning, and Community Grants in Washington State. Each of these focus areas strategically use research, program implementation, and advocacy in partnership with business, government and other non-profits to achieve results.\n\nUpon completion of his college degree (BA Accounting, University of Colorado Denver), Golston joined the firm KPMG Peat Marwick as a senior auditor. He later moved on to MIS, Inc., as Director of Business Analysis and Product Development, where he was responsible for designing and implementing accounting software systems for the insurance and banking industries.\nIn 1993 Golston returned to his alma mater, joining the University of Colorado Hospital as its director of finance and controller. In this position, Golston managed the whole of hospital finance, including accounting, risk management, compliance, debt, and some $400 million in hospital investments.\n\nAfter four years at the University's hospital, Golston accepted a position with Seattle’s Swedish Medical Center, acting as the hospital’s Director of Finance. In addition to the daily financial operations surrounding performance, accounting and reporting, tax compliance, and risk management, Golston also managed hospital investments worth approximately $500 million. Under Golston’s financial leadership, Swedish Medical Center received $258 million in tax-exempt debt relief; dollars that were subsequently directed toward facility improvement projects. During his tenure at Swedish, Golston also completed his MBA at Seattle University.\n\nThree years later, Golston was approached by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and asked to join the organization as chief financial officer. Because of the foundation’s unique executive structure, when Golston accepted the CFO role he also took on chief administrative officer duties. In this doubled capacity, Golston managed accounting, taxes, and financial planning and analysis, while simultaneously leading the foundation’s work in human resources, information technology and operations. He also served on the senior executive team for foundation strategy, shaping and directing many of the foundation’s innovative strategies in the areas of Global Health, Global Development and the U.S. Program. For nine months in 2006, Golston was the interim executive director of the foundation’s Global Health division.\n\nIn October 2006, Golston was offered the role of president of the foundation’s U.S. Program; a core area of foundation grantmaking.\n\n10 December 2010, Golston was appointed to the Board of Directors for Stryker Corporation. He became lead director in 2016. While in this role, he will continue to work as president of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. \n\nIn addition to his work at the foundation, Golston also sits on a number of boards (University of Washington Medicine, Seattle University, Charter School Growth Fund, MOM Brands) and participates in many outside philanthropic organizations. Golston is a lifetime member of the British-American Project and has previously been an active board member for Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), New Futures, Make-A-Wish Foundation of Alaska and Washington, Philanthropy Northwest, and the Public Library of Science. Golston is a resource council member for both the Rainier Scholars program and the Robert Woods Johnson Commission to Build a Healthier America, on the advisory committee for the Northwest African American Museum in Seattle, and is on the Resource Council for the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington DC. Golston is also actively involved in the HOPE Street Bipartisan Commission and the INROADS Alumni Association. He is a member of the 2009 class of Henry Crown Fellows at the Aspen Institute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21285614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21285614", "title": "Andrés Rivera", "text": "Andrés Rivera\n\nAndrés Rivera, born Marcos Ribak (December 12, 1928 – December 23, 2016) was an Argentine writer, born in Buenos Aires. He was at various points a textile worker, a journalist, and a writer. From 1953–1957, Rivera worked as a journalist on the staff of the magazine Plática. \n\nIn 1985 Rivera was awarded the Segundo Premio Municipal de Novela for \"En esta dulce tierra\" (On this Sweet Earth). In 1992 he won the Premio Nacional de Literatura for his novel \"La revolución es un sueño eterno\" (The Revolution is an Eternal Dream). \"La sierva\" (The Servant) received recognition as the best book of 1992 by the foundation El Libro. Rivera's novel \"El farmer\" (The Farmer), about the final years of Juan Manuel de Rosas was one of the best selling books in Argentina during 1996. In 2004, he received a Konex Merit Diploma for literature. \n\nHe lived in Córdoba with his wife Susana Fiorito. He died there on 23 December 2016 at the age of 88.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49671854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49671854", "title": "Barbadians in Trinidad", "text": "Barbadians in Trinidad\n\nBarbadian Trinidadians refers to Trinidadian people of full, partial, or predominantly Barbadian ancestry, or Barbadian-born people residing in Trinidad.\n"}
{"id": "14285621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285621", "title": "Bracha L. Ettinger", "text": "Bracha L. Ettinger\n\nBracha Lichtenberg Ettinger () is an Israeli-born painter and theorist. As visual artist she has mainly produced paintings, drawings, notebooks and photography. She is also a philosopher, psychoanalyst and writer.\n\nEttinger's work consists mostly of oil painting and writing. Ettinger is now considered to be a prominent figure among both the French painters' and the Israeli art's scenes. Ettinger's art was recently analysed at length in the book \"Women Artists at the Millennium\", in Griselda Pollock's \"Encounters in the Virtual Feminist Museum\" and in Catherine de Zegher's anthology \"Women's Work is Never Done\". Her ideas in cultural theory, psychoanalysis, and French feminism (see \"Feminist theory and psychoanalysis\") achieved recognition after the publication of \"Matrix and Metramorphosis\" (1992), fragments from her notebooks (Moma, Oxford, 1993) and \"The Matrixial Gaze\" (1995). Over the last two decades her work has been influential in art history, film theory (including feminist film theory), psychoanalysis, aesthetics and gender studies.\n\nEttinger is a Professor at European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, Switzerland.\n\nBracha Ettinger was born in Tel Aviv on 23 March 1948. She received her M.A. in Clinical Psychology from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem where she worked as research assistant then personal assistant of Amos Tversky (1969/70, 1973/74, 1974/75) and Danny Kahneman (1970/71). She married Loni Ettinger in June 1975 and moved to London where she studied, trained and worked between 1975 and 1979 at the London Centre for Psychotherapy (with Elsa Seglow), the Tavistock Clinic and the Philadelphia Association (with R. D. Laing). Her daughter the actress Lana Ettinger, was born in London. She returned to Israel in 1979 and worked at Shalvata Hospital. Ettinger, who has painted and drawn since early childhood, is self-taught. In her early days she avoided the art scene. In 1981 she decided to become a professional artist and moved to Paris where she lived and worked from 1981 to 2003 with her partner Joav Toker. Her son Itai was born in 1988. As well as painting, drawing and photography, she began writing, and received a D.E.A. in Psychoanalysis from the University Paris VII Diderot in 1987, and a Ph.D. in Aesthetics of Art from the University of Paris VIII in 1996.\n\nEttinger had a solo project at the Pompidou Centre in 1987, and a solo exhibition at the Museum of Calais in 1988. In 1995 she had a solo exhibition at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, and in 1996 she participated in the Contemporary art section of \"Face à l'Histoire. 1933–1996\" exhibition in the Pompidou Centre. In 2000 she had a mid-life retrospective at the Centre for Fine Arts (The Palais des Beaux Arts) in Brussels, and in 2001 a solo exhibition at the Drawing Center in New York. As well as working as an artist, Ettinger continued to train as psychoanalyst with Françoise Dolto, Piera Auglanier, Pierre Fedida, and Jacques-Alain Miller, and has become an influential contemporary French feminist. Around 1988 Ettinger began her Conversation and Photography project. Her personal art notebooks have become source for theoretical articulations, and her art has inspired art historians (among them the distinguished art historian Griselda Pollock and international curator Catherine de Zegher) and philosophers (like Jean-François Lyotard, Christine Buci-Glucksmann and Brian Massumi) who dedicated a number of essays to her painting.\n\nEven though she was still based mainly in Paris, Ettinger was visiting professor (1997–1998) and then research professor (1999–2004) in psychoanalysis and aesthetics at the School of Fine Art, History of Art and Cultural Studies at the University of Leeds. Since 2001 she has also been visiting professor in Psychoanalysis and Aesthetics at the AHRC Centre for Cultural Analysis, Theory and History (now CentreCATH). Ettinger had partly returned to Israel in 2003, and has kept studios in both Paris and Tel Aviv ever since. She was a lecturer at the Bezalel Academy of Art and Design in Jerusalem until 2006. \nSome of her specific academic fields of endeavor are feminist psychoanalysis, art, aesthetics, ethics, the gaze, sexual difference and gender studies, Jacques Lacan, the feminine, early (including pre-birth) psychic impressions, pre-maternal and maternal subjectivity.\n\nEttinger's research concerns light and space, and in this it follows from Monet and Rothko. Her subjects concern the human condition and the tragedy of war, and her work in this aspect follows on after artists such as Käthe Kollwitz and Francisco Goya. The painting process engages a space of passage between figures and abstraction, and her attitude to abstraction resonates with the spiritual concerns of Agnes Martin and Hilma af Klint. Another major subject in her work is the unconscious and in particular the feminine and the maternal. Her notebooks accompany the painting process but are equally art works.\n\nFrom 1981 until 1992, Ettinger's principal artwork consisted of drawing and mixed media on paper as well as notebooks and artist's books, where alongside theoretical work and conversations she made ink and wash painting and drawing. Since 1992, apart from her notebooks, most of her artwork consists of mixed media and oil paintings, with few parallel series that spread over time like: \"Matrix — Family Album\", \"Autistwork\" and \"Eurydice\", with themes of generational transmission of memory, personal and historical trauma, the Shoah and the World Wars, the gaze, light, color and the space, womanhood and maternality, inspired by classical painting and creating an abstract space where the questions of beauty and sublime become relevant for our time. Between 1984-2008, images that she obtains first by collage and xerox processing are abstracted in a long process of oil painting that takes a few years. From 2008 until now Ettinger works her oil paintings directly on canvas and doing video art films that contains her drawings and photographs.\n\nAccording to Griselda Pollock, Catherine de Zegher and Chris Dercon, director of the Tate Modern who had chosen her work for the \"contemporary art\" section of the Pompidou Center's major exhibition of 20th Century art \"Face à l'Histoire\", Ettinger has become one of the major artists of the New European Painting. Along with painting she has worked on installations, theoretical research, lectures, video works, and \"encounter events\". Her paintings, photos, drawings, and notebooks have been exhibited at the Pompidou Centre (1987, 1996, 2010–2011), and the Stedelijk Museum in 1997. In the last decade, Ettinger's oil on canvas paintings involve figures like Medusa, Demeter and Persephone, and Eurydice. Though from 2010 onward her work still consists mainly of oil paintings and drawings, she is also doing new media animated video-films where the images are multi-layered like her painting. In 2015, Ettinger participated in the 14th Istanbul Biennial drafted and curated by Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev.\n\nAmong the venues Ettinger presented in:\n\nEttinger's Solo exhibitions (Selection):\n\nEttinger is a theoretician who proposed an ontology of string-like subject-subject (trans-subjective) and subject-object (transjective) transmissivity for a rethinking of the human subject. Working at the intersections of human subjectivity, feminine sexuality, maternal subjectivity, psychoanalysis, art and aesthetics, she contributed to psychoanalysis the idea of a feminine-maternal sphere, function, and structure with its symbolic and imaginary dimensions based on femaleness in the real (womb). This dimension, as symbolic, contributes to ethical thinking about human responsibility to one another and to the world. She is a senior clinical psychologist, and a practising psychoanalyst. Her artistic practice and her articulation, since 1985, of what has become known as the matrixial theory of trans-subjectivity have transformed contemporary debates in contemporary art, psychoanalysis, women's studies, and cultural studies. Ettinger was an analysand of Ronald Laing in London and Piera Aulagnier in Paris. She is member of the Tel Aviv Institute for Contemporary Psychoanalysis (TAICP), the New Lacanian School (NLS) and the World Association of Psychoanalysis (AMP / WAP). For Ettinger, the Freudian attitude to psychoanalysis is crucial as it emphasizes the phantasmatic value of materials that arise during regression. To Freud and Lacan she adds, however, a feminine-maternal space-time with its particular structures, functions, and dynamics in the unconscious. She claims that, in a similar way, when seduction is assigned to the paternal figure during regression, it is recognized in most cases as a result of the therapeutic process itself. It is worked-through accordingly without therapist's father-blaming, and without a resulting father-hate. Therapists must likewise realize that during regression phantasmatic maternal \"not-enoughness\" appears and must also be recognized as the result of the process itself, and be worked-through without the mother-hating that Ettinger considers contributes to a \"psychotization\" of the subject, and a block to the passage from rage to sorrow and compassion. To be able to recognize the phantasmatic status of the psychic material arising during therapy, the Lacanian concepts of Symbolic, Imaginary and Real are useful to her.\n\nThe idea of a corpo-Real is a part of her symbolization of a new feminine psychic zone (the matrixial, the womb as time space of psychic encounter-event), in both male and female subjects, and of the feminine-matrixial sexual difference. Thus, even if Ettinger critiques the Freudian and Lacanian analysis of the feminine, she considers herself as a \"post\" or \"neo\" Freudian and Lacanian, who elaborates the feminine in continuity to these psychoanalysts, but claims a supplementary feminine-maternal Eros. Ettinger criticises Winnicott and Bollas for offering patients a \"ready-made mother-monster\" as a cause for each psychic pain. She considers any practice of archaic-motherhood blaming as an obstacle, as \"hystericizing\" and even momentarily \"psychoticizing\" (in the sense of leading to internal splits rather than recognition of differences,) when such \"cause\" is brought as \"explanation\" by the analyst, a \"cause\" attributed to the unremembered early period of life where I and non-I are transconnected. Ettinger agrees with Lacan that the \"ultimate\" cause is in principle lacking: \"objet a\". She calls for a delicate process of differentiation, coemergence, and cofading between the generations, especially in analysing the same-sex (daughter-mother, son-father) relationships, with emphasize on transmission, not split. Thus, the process itself helps to negotiate and articulate delicately sexual difference, in the present. To the idea that the self is structured via mirror-like reflection she adds that of primal apperception of the other, through \"fascinance\" (aesthetic openness to the other and the cosmos), compassion and awe (affective accesses to the other) directed from the beginning to the (m)Other and the outside, not to the self.\n\nEttinger invented the Matrixial Trans-subjectivity theory, or simply \"The Matrixial\", with concepts like border linking, borderspacing, martial borderspace, copoiesis, wit(h)messing and co/in-habit(u)ation. Ettinger is a Freudian and Lacanian scholar and follows the late Jacques Lacan, Emmanuel Levinas, Object relations theory and Gilles Deleuze/Félix Guattari.\n\nEttinger articulated a feminine-maternal (and feminine-prematernal) dimension, space, function, Eros and dynamics in the human Unconscious. She had suggested that pre-natal impressions, connected to the phantasmatic and traumatic real of the pregnant becoming-mother, are trans-inscribed in the emerging subject and form the primary phase and position of the human psyche. \"I\" and \"non-I\", without rejection and without symbiotic fusion, conjointly inscribe memory traces that are dispersed asymmetrically but in a trans-subjective mode. Trans-subjective mental and affective unconscious \"strings\", connecting the prenatal emerging subject to the archaic m/Other, open unconscious routes (\"feminine\", non phallic, in both males and females) that enable subjectivizing processes all throughout life whenever a new matrixial encounter-event takes place. The matrixial encounter-event forms specific aesthetical and ethical accesses to the Other. Ettinger articulated the 'matrixial gaze' and the process of 'co-poiesis'. This allows new understanding of trans-generational transmission, trauma and artistic processes. Ettinger formulates the woman(girl)-to-woman(mother) difference as the first sexual difference for females to be viewed first of all according to the matrixial parameters. The feminie-maternal Eros informs also the father/son and mother/son relations. According to Ettinger, in parallel but also before expressions of abjection (Julia Kristeva) or rejection (Freud on Narcissism) of the other, primary compassion, awe and fascinance (which are unconscious psychic affective accesses to the other, and which join reattunement and differentiating-in-jointness by borderlinking) occur. The combination of fascinance and primary compassion does not enter the economy of social exchange, attraction and rejection; it has particular forms of Eros and of resistance that can inspire the political sphere and reach action and speech that is ethical-political without entering any political institutional organization. The infant's primary compassion is a proto-ethical psychological means that joins the aesthetical fascinance and creates a feel-knowing that functions at best within maternal (and also parental) compassionate hospitality. Here, one witnesses in jointness: The I wit(h)ness while borderlinking (bordurelaint) to the non-I and borderspacing (bordurespacant) from the other. Ettinger calls for the recognition of the matrixial transference as a dimension in the transferential relationships in psychoanalysis. They must entails besideness to (and not a split from) the archaic the m/Other (Autremere) and parental figures; jointness-in-differentiation rather than their exclusion. She sees in the trans-subjectivity a distinct dimension of human specific linkage and shareability, different from, and supplementary to \"inter-subjectivity\" and \"self\" psychology. Her most prominent and comprehensive book regarding this theory is \"The Matrixial Borderspace\" (reprint of essays from 1994–1999) published in French in 1999 and in English in 2006, but her most recent concepts are mainly elaborated in the different essays printed in 2005–2006.\n\nHer more recent artistic and theoretical work centers around the spiritual in art and ethics. In the domain of psychoanalysis, around the question of same-sex differences, the primary feminine difference is the difference opened between woman (girl) and woman (m/Other), maternal subjectivity, maternal/pregnance Eros of com-passion, the effects of compassion and awe and the passion for borderlinking and borderspacing and the idea that three kinds of fantasy (that she names Mother-fantasies) should be recognized, when they appear in a state of regression aroused by therapy itself, as primal: Mother-fantasies of Not-enoughness, Devouring and Abandonment. Their mis-recognition in psychoanalysis (and analytical therapy), together with the ignorance of maternal Eros of com-passion leads to catastrophic blows to the matrixial daughter-mother tissue and hurts the maternal potentiality of the daughter herself, in the sense that attacking the \"non-I\" is always also attacking the \"I\" that dwells inside an \"I\"-and-\"non-I\" trans-subjective matrixial (feminine-maternal) tissue. Contributing to Self psychoanalysis after Heinz Kohut, Ettinger articulated the difference between com-passionate borderlinking, compassion (as affect) and empathy, and between \"empathy without compassion\" and \"empathy within compassion\", claiming that the analyst's empathy without compassion harms the matrixial psychic tissue of the analysand, while empathy within compassion leads to creativity and to the broadening of the ethical horizon. Ettinger explains how by empathy (toward the patient's complaints) \"without\" compassion (toward the patient's surrounding past and present family figures, no less than toward the patient itself), the therapist \"produces\" the patient's real mother as a \"ready-made monster-mother\" figure, that serves to absorb complaints of all kinds, and thus, a dangerous splitting is induced between the \"good\" mother figure (the therapist) and a \"bad\" mother figure (the real mother). This splitting is destructive in both internal and external terms, and mainly for the daughter-mother relations, since the I and non-I are in any case always trans-connected, and therefore any split and projected hate (toward such figures) will turn into a self-hate in the woman/daughter web. Such a concept of subjectivity, where \"non-I\" is trans-connected to the \"I\", has deep ethical implications as well as far-reaching sociological and political implications that have been further developed by Griselda Pollock in order to rethink modern and postmodern art and History. Ettinger's recent theoretical proposals starting around 2008 include the three Shocks of maternality and the paternal infnticide impulses (Laius Complex) Carriance and the Demeter–Persephone Complex, working around Greek Mythology and the Hebrew Bible, the woman artists Eva Hesse, Hilma af Klint and Emma Kunz and the poets and writers Sylvia Plath, Marguerite Duras and Alejandra Pizarnik.\n\nIn 1967 Bracha Lichtenberg Ettinger led the biggest saving operation of drowning people in the Middle East: the Eilat shipwreck.,, Ettinger is a supporter of the Palestinian rights, and since 2005 Ettinger is an activist member in \"Physicians for Human Rights-Israel\" (\"PHR-Israel\"). Dr. Ettinger contributes to the organization as a clinical psychologist, attending Palestinian patients in needed areas in the Palestinian occupied territories.\n\nEttinger is also famous for her portrait photography, taken in the context of conversation projects. Some of her portraits, like those of Jean-François Lyotard, Joyce McDougall, Edmond Jabès, Emmanuel Lévinas, Robert Doisneau and Yeshayahu Leibowitz appear in several official publications and collections.\n\nFascinance is forum started by Srishti Madurai in South India on 24 December 2013 which offers Introductory Course in Ettingerian Psychoanalysis\n\nThe aims of this group:\nEttinger is author of several books and more than eighty psychoanalytical essays elaborating different aesthetical, ethical, psychoanalytical and artistic aspects of the matrixial. She is co-author of volumes of conversation with Emmanuel Levinas, Edmond Jabès, Craigie Horsfield, Félix Guattari and Christian Boltanski. Her book \"Regard et Espace-de-Bord Matrixiels\" (essays 1994–1999) appeared in French in 1999 (La lettre volée), and has been published in English as \"The Matrixial Borderspace\" (2006, University of Minnesota Press, edited by Brian Massumi and forwarded by Judith Butler and Griselda Pollock). Ettinger is one of the leading intellectuals associated with contemporary French feminism and feminist psychoanalytical thought alongside Julia Kristeva and Luce Irigaray. The journal \"Theory Culture & Society\" dedicated an issue to her work [\"TC&S, Vol.21, n.1\"] in 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43715299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43715299", "title": "Bronislava of Poland", "text": "Bronislava of Poland\n\nBlessed Bronislava (Polish: \"Bronisława\"; \"c.\" 1204–1259) was a Polish nun of the Premonstratensian Order. She is beatified in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nBronislava was born at Kamień, Włodawa County, in eastern Poland as Bronislawa Odrowaz in about 1200, although some sources give a birth date of 1203 or 1204. She was the daughter of Count Stanislaus and Countess Anna of Prandata-Odrowaz and a cousin of Saint Hyacinth of Poland.\n\nAt the age of sixteen, she was introduced by Hyacinth to a religious community of the Norbertine order at Zwierzyniec, Kraków. She subsequently worked with the sick and poor at a number of monasteries, living in a most austere way. She is believed to have seen a vision of the Virgin Mary at the moment of the death of Hyacinth in 1257. Bronislava died of natural causes on 29 August 1259 at Zwierzyniec.\n\nHer cult began soon after her death, and in 1707 she was designated a patron of Poland, and of orphans. She was beatified by Pope Gregory XVI on 23 August 1839, after being attributed for protecting Zwierzyniec from cholera in 1835. Her feast day is celebrated on 1 September.\n\nShe is commemorated by the Blessed Bronisława Chapel in Kraków. A minor planet discovered in 1933 was named \"Bronislawa\" in her honour. There is a street named for her in the Ligota-Panewniki region of Katowice.\n\n"}
{"id": "23508734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23508734", "title": "Canonisation of John Henry Newman", "text": "Canonisation of John Henry Newman\n\nJohn Henry Newman (21 February 1801 – 11 August 1890) was a Roman Catholic theologian and cardinal who converted to Roman Catholicism from Anglicanism in October 1845. In early life, he was a major figure in the Oxford Movement to bring the Church of England back to its roots. Eventually his studies in history persuaded him to become a Roman Catholic.\n\nCanonisation would make Newman the first English person who has lived since the 17th century officially recognised as a saint by the Roman Catholic Church. In 1991, Newman was proclaimed \"Venerable\" by the Congregation for the Causes of Saints – the first stage in the canonisation process. He was beatified on 19 September 2010 at an open air mass in Birmingham.\n\nA file on Newman's beatification was first opened in 1958.\n\nIn 1991, Newman was proclaimed Venerable after a thorough examination of his life and work by the Sacred Congregation for the Causes of Saints. One miracle attributed to Newman's intercession was required to have occurred and been fully investigated and approved by the Vatican before he could be beatified. A second miracle would then be necessary for his canonisation.\n\nIn October 2005, Paul Chavasse, provost of the Birmingham Oratory, who is the postulator responsible for the cause, announced that a miraculous cure had occurred.\n\nJack Sullivan, a deacon from Marshfield, Massachusetts in the United States, attributed his recovery from a spinal cord disorder to Newman. The claimed miracle occurred in the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of Boston, whose responsibility it was to determine its validity. In August 2006, the Archbishop of Boston, Sean O'Malley announced he was passing details to the Vatican.\n\nOn 24 April 2008, the press secretary to the Fathers of the Birmingham Oratory reported that the medical consultants at the Congregation for the Causes of Saints had met that day and voted unanimously that Sullivan's recovery defied any scientific or medical explanation. The question of the genuineness of the alleged miracle then went to the panel of theological consultors, who unanimously agreed to recognise the miracle a year later on 24 April 2009. The panel's vote, presumably having been verified by the prelate members of the Congregation, allowed Pope Benedict XVI to beatify Newman at a date of his choosing following a meeting with the Prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints (then Archbishop Angelo Amato) to formally approve the Congregation's voting process.\n\nOn 3 July 2009, Pope Benedict XVI recognised the healing of Deacon Jack Sullivan in 2001 as a miracle, resulting from the intercession of the Venerable Servant of God, John Henry Newman. This decision paved the way for Newman's beatification, which occurred on 19 September 2010.\n\nAlthough it had been originally announced that Newman would be beatified at an open air mass at Coventry Airport, the venue was later switched to Cofton Park in Longbridge. Thus it was during the first Papal state visit to the UK that Pope Benedict XVI himself performed the beatification on 19 September 2010.\n\nChavasse expanded on his remarks at the Michaelmas 2006 dinner of the Oxford University Newman Society (held in November), suggesting that Benedict XVI had shown a personal interest in Newman's cause.\n\nA second miracle was needed for Newman's canonisation. In November 2018, the Vatican approved a second miracle, involving the unexplained healing of a pregnant American woman from a life-threatening diagnosis and investigated by the Archdiocese of Chicago.\n\nIn 2008, the Vatican decided to enact plans to move Newman's remains from The Lickey Hills, near Rednal, Worcestershire where he was buried, to the Oratory in Birmingham city centre in anticipation of his being declared a saint. The move required prior permission from the Ministry of Justice; in preparation the area was enclosed by steel fencing incorporating The Oratory country house, a mortuary chapel and a small graveyard which contained his shared grave (with Ambrose St. John).\n\nThe planned exhumation and move of Newman's remains were finally agreed by the UK authorities as a special case, as UK law prohibits the removal of a body from a graveyard to a church tomb. Licence was finally granted on 11 August 2008, the 118th anniversary of Newman's death in 1890, to permit the move by undertakers.\n\nNewman's grave at Rednal was opened on 2 October 2008. It had been hoped that his body had been buried in a lead coffin and would be well preserved. However, the exhumation revealed that Newman had been buried in a wooden coffin and his body had completely decomposed; there were no human remains. The only artefacts retrieved, including an inscription plate, were wooden, brass and cloth. These artefacts, along with locks of hair, which had been sent to Sullivan before his inexplicable cure (and had always been in the possession of the Birmingham Oratory), were placed in a glass sided casket for a Vigil of Reception. The relics were then solemnly placed in the Chapel of St Charles Borromeo situated to the right of the Sanctuary. They will rest in the Chapel while the process of Beatification continues in Rome. The Fathers of the Birmingham Oratory have decided that the specially made green Italian marble sarcophagus will not be placed between the columns opposite the Holy Souls' Altar in the Oratory Church, Birmingham as originally planned.\n\nThe proposed movement of Newman's body angered some gay rights campaigners, who saw it as an attempt to deliberately separate him from his close companion Ambrose St John, with whom he was buried in accordance with his personal wishes. In their view, this was to deliberately downplay the intense nature of the relationship between the two men, who had been companions for 30 years. Peter Tatchell entered the debate in an article in \"The Times\" on 19 August 2008, accusing the Vatican of \"moral vandalism\", and renewed his criticisms on the \"Sunday\" programme on BBC Radio 4 on 24 August 2008.\n\nIn response, the Vatican commissioned Ian Ker, a theologian at the University of Oxford, to rebut the allegations in an article for the Vatican's newspaper, \"L’Osservatore Romano\".\n\nTatchell went on to criticise the Home Office of collusion with the Vatican. According to his interpretation of heavily censored documents released to him under the Freedom of Information Act, Tatchell claimed that the Catholic Church had \"put the government under sustained pressure\" to obtain the authorisation to exhume the body.\n\nNevertheless, Ker and Paul Chavasse, current provost of the Birmingham Oratory, maintain that Newman would have been glad to submit to the wishes of the Vatican in whatever they asked, no matter his previous wishes – Newman had stated \"I wish, with all my heart, to be buried in Fr Ambrose St John's grave — and I give this as my last, my imperative will\", he wrote, later adding: \"This I confirm and insist on.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43396883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43396883", "title": "Chen Sanli", "text": "Chen Sanli\n\nChen Sanli (1853 -1937), aka Boyan, Sanyuan Laoren, was a Chinese poet who wrote in the classical style in the early modern era. He was descended from a Hakka family that had settled in Yining (now Xiushui), Jiangxi Province [Kowallis, p. 169]. His father was Chen Baozhen, Qing dynasty governor of Hunan. Along with Zheng Xiaoxu and Shen Zengzhi, he became one of the leading figures of the Tongguang school, which was related to but not identical with the Song poetry style [Kowallis, pp. 168–208]. From 1889 Chen Sanli served as a civil servant, and with his father Chen Baozhen (1831-1900), the governor-general of Hunan and an associate of Tan Sitong and Kang Youwei, he led local reform in Hunan, which became a model in the minds of reformists for the entire country. After the Empress Dowager suppressed the Hundred Days Reform of 1898, the Chens were forced to leave the government and go into internal exile near Nanchang. His father died shortly thereafter, which greatly saddened the son. He then moved to a villa he built outside Jinling (Nanjing) called Sanyuan Jingshe (The Sanyuan Retreat), from which Chen Sanli derived his pen-name. After the 1911 Xinhai Revolution, Chen Sanli declined to serve in government under the Republic, but he was not a Qing yilao [loyalist] in the classic sense. After the Marco Polo Bridge Incident, he is said to have committed suicide by starvation in protest at the Japanese invasion.\n\nChen Yan, the main theorist of the poetics of the Tongguang school, characterized Chen Sanli's poetry as \"obscure and profound\" (生涩奥衍). Chen Sanli was said to have learned from the Northern Song poet Huang Tingjian, but he did not imitate, he developed this style [Kowallis, p. 194]. Many of Chen's poems reflect the chaos and suffering of the Chinese people during the early 20th century.\n\nChen Shizeng, One of Chen Sanli's sons became a famous painter. Another, the historian Chen Yinke, was an eminent authority on Buddhism and the institutional history of Tang-era China [Lo and Schultz, p. 351].\n\nKowallis, Jon Eugene von. The Subtle Revolution: Poets of the 'Old Schools' during late Qing and early Republican China. Berkeley: University of California, Institute of East Asian Studies, China Research Monographs #60, 2006. .\n\nLo, Irving Yucheng and Schultz, William. Waiting for the Unicorn: Poems and Lyrics of China's Last Dynasty, 1644-1911. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1986, pp. 350–352. .\n"}
{"id": "42819165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42819165", "title": "Constantin Cantacuzino (died 1877)", "text": "Constantin Cantacuzino (died 1877)\n\nConstantin G. Cantacuzino, also known as Costache Cantacozino or Costandin Cantacuzino (transitional Cyrillic: Кonстanтin Кanтaкozino; 1790s–1877), was the \"Caimacam\" (Regent) of Wallachia in September 1848–June 1849, appointed directly by the Ottoman Empire. A member of the Cantacuzino family, he had emerged as a leader of the conservative boyardom during the \"Regulamentul Organic\" period. As a commander in the Wallachian militia, he organized in 1831 the first elections for Bucharest's Town Council, and subsequently served as one of the Bucharest Governors. He first played a major part in national government from 1837 to 1842, when he served Prince Alexandru II Ghica as \"Postelnic\" and \"Logothete\". During that interval, he clashed with his own brother Grigore Cantacuzino, who sided with the liberal current.\n\nFalling out of favor with the Russian Empire, Cantacuzino was deposed ahead of Ghica himself, and was an unsuccessful candidate in the princely election of December 1842. After years in self-imposed exile, Cantacuzino returned with the Ottoman Army in September 1848, helping to quell the 1848 Revolution—although his own son, Ion C. Cantacuzino, had been active within the revolutionary movement. Supervised by Fuad Pasha, Constantin sent the revolutionary leadership, including his immediate predecessors, into exile. He then oversaw the imprisonment and mistreatment of various others, being allegedly responsible for the death in custody of writer Ion Catina. He also disarmed the rebel forces, while restoring both \"Regulamentul\" and its symbols of power, as well as reintroducing slavery. \n\nCantacuzino resigned when Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei took over as Prince, but remained active within Știrbei's successive governments, being granted the office of Great \"Vornic\". He opposed the Prince's views on agrarian reform, taking an ultra-conservative stance which favored indentured servitude for Wallachian farmers. Throughout the early 1850s, Cantacuzino actively sought the crown of Wallachia for himself, championing Ottoman loyalism. His in-law Nicolae Mavros also attempted to make him ruler of both Danubian Principalities.\n\nCantacuzino's final moment in power was in late July 1854, during an interregnum caused by the Crimean War. He became the president of an Administrative Council created by Mikhail Dmitrievich Gorchakov just before the Russian withdrawal from Wallachia. The Ottomans then recognized him as head of a caretaker government, jointly with Constantin Năsturel-Herescu, although both resigned after Știrbei's second return that September. After rallying with a larger conservative coalition, he served a final ministerial term in 1856, and was a minor contender in the princely election of 1859, also taking a seat in the Ad hoc Divan. While the \"Caimacam\" spent the remainder of his life abroad, his sons Ion and Adolf remained active in the administration of the United Principalities. Constantin was the father-in-law of General Gheorghe Manu, as well as the grandfather of microbiologist Ioan Cantacuzino and of poet Scarlat Cantacuzino.\n\nOf distant Greek origins, the Cantacuzinos had reached prominence in both Wallachia and Moldavia, which were governed as tributary states of the Ottoman Empire. According to diverging accounts, Constantin was born in 1791, 1793, or \"about 1798\". His father was the \"Clucer\" Gheorghe (Iordache) Cantacuzino (1747–1803), grandson of Constantin I Cantacuzino; through his two paternal great-grandparents, Constantin descended from Michael Kantakouzenos Şeytanoğlu and Prince Radu Șerban. Constantin was born from Gheorghe's marriage to Maricuța, daughter of \"Ban\" Ștefan Pârșcoveanu. The couple had another son, Grigore (1800–1849), who also served as Wallachia's \"Vornic\".\n\nCantacuzino's involvement with the Wallachian administration began during the late stages of the Phanariote era, when both Principalities were being Hellenized. He first became a titled boyar in 1813, under Prince John Caradja, when he was appointed \"Serdar\" of the Wallachian military forces; in 1820, he was an \"Aga\", or head of Wallachia's police. In 1821, following the Greek War of Independence and the anti-Phanariote uprising, he and his family took refuge in the Austrian Empire, joining a colony of boyars in Corona (Brașov). An anonymous letter, tentatively dated to April 1821, cites him as one of the boyars attracted into the anti-Phanariote faction of this diaspora, alongside Grigore Brâncoveanu, Scarlat Rosetti and Alexandru Vilara.\n\nThe \"Aga\" had returned home by 1822, the year when he probably married Zoe Slătineanu, from whom he had his four children. In 1828, under Grigore IV Ghica, he issued the first-ever decree regulating Wallachia's police, which also marked a first step in its transition to modern metropolitan law enforcement. That year, he was also appointed as the first ethnic Romanian to serve as \"Efor\" (Curator) of the Wallachian theaters. \n\nCantacuzino's political climb was accelerated during the Russo-Turkish War of 1828, when he welcomed the Imperial Russian Army and became a protege of Governor Pavel Kiselyov. Following the Treaty of Adrianople, both Principalities became protectorates of Russia under Ottoman suzerainty. In 1831, Cantacuzino was \"Vornic\" of the Wallachian Police in Bucharest. In this capacity, together with Gheorghe Bibescu he organized the very first elections for the Town Council, which took place in November 1831. When this was convened, he also presented himself as a candidate for an executive function (\"mădulăr\"), earning endorsements from 56 out of 80 councilors, and emerging as one of five town governors. Still serving as \"Aga\" in 1832, Cantacuzino was directly involved in the hunt for brigand Ioniță Tunsu. Kiselyov also assigned him to committees which supervised the paving and beautification of Bucharest's streets; his colleagues were Barbu Dimitrie Știrbei and Alecu Filipescu-Vulpea. With Iancu Văcărescu and Costache Golescu, he also collected funds for the establishment of a national theater. His own townhouse, located outside Lipscani, was fitted with a bathhouse—one of the few private ones existing in 1830s Wallachia. \n\nIn parallel, Cantacuzino also ran in Wallachia's first legislative election, taking one of the 19 Ordinary Assembly seats reserved for the high-ranking boyars. After the election of 1836, there were protracted debates between the National Party and the conservative boyars. A ministerial crisis was finally ended in June 1837, when Cantacuzino agreed to enter a cabinet that also included his rival Știrbei. He served as \"Postelnic\" or Secretary of State, and was also \"Logothete\" or Justice Minister. He contributed to the pacification of Brăila in July 1841, signing Prince Alexandru II Ghica's proclamation to the rebellious Bulgarians. Acting on Ghica's behalf, he welcomed at Calafat the Ottoman inspector, Hüseyin Pasha, with whom he discussed means of tackling Russian intrigues in Wallachia.\n\nBy 1842 \"Logothete\" Cantacuzino had been received into three orders of chivalry by Wallachia's protective powers: he had the Order of Saint Anna, Second Class; the Order of Saint Vladimir, Fourth Class; and the Ottoman Order of Glory. His friendship with Kiselyov afforded him a say in the legislative framework of Wallachia, codified as \"Regulamentul Organic\". From within the Ordinary Assembly, Cantacuzino supported tagging the controversial \"additional article\" to \"Regulamentul\", and thus revealed himself as a vocal backer of Russian influence in the Principalities. This pitted him against the National Party, whose leaders included Emanoil Băleanu, Ioan Câmpineanu, and his own brother, Grigore Cantacuzino.\n\nConstantin was still a member of the Assembly following the election of 1841. However, on May 20, 1842, Russian commissioner Alexander Osipovich Duhamel obtained that he be deposed as \"Postelnic\" and replaced with Știrbei. Cantacuzino presented himself as a candidate in the princely election of December, but only managed 41 of 188 votes; the winner was Bibescu. Initially, Bibescu promoted him, assigning him office as an \"Efor\" of the Wallachian schools, jointly with Filipescu-Vulpea and Mihalache Ghica. Like his brother Grigore (who sat in the Assembly's committee for educational review), Constantin was a reactionary who objected to educational reform. Still present in the Assembly in 1843, he soon rallied with the anti-Bibescu opposition, blocking his legislative projects. He later chose to expatriate himself, although his family remained behind. His eldest son, Ion C. (Iancu), was by then married to Maria, daughter of the numismatist and Russian spy Nicolae Mavros, making Constantin had been in-laws with politician Ion Ghica and with the Kotzebue family.\n\nIn June 1848, Wallachia's liberal revolution toppled Bibescu and installed a Provisional Government. Two of his three sons, Ion and Grigore, were enthusiastic participants in the events. In the early stages, both Constantin and his Mavros daughter-in-law helped the radical Nicolae Bălcescu evade police round-ups at Telega. On June 11, the day of revolutionary victory, he wrote to Bălcescu a congratulatory and \"rather humble\" letter. During the subsequent weeks, the new regime sought to obtain recognition from the Sublime Porte. The Cantacuzino home was also where the Provisional Government, represented by Ioan Voinescu II, welcomed Suleiman Pasha in August. \n\nIn September, following its radicalization, the revolutionary movement was repressed by an Ottoman–Russian expedition; at the time, Cantacuzino Sr had again fled for safety to Corona. On September 21, he rode back to Bucharest, presenting his services to the Ottoman Army under Fuad Pasha; reportedly, he had been called back by Duhamel. Favored by both Russian and Ottoman overseers, he was subsequently appointed \"Caimacam\" by Fuad, on September 22. The short ceremony was witnessed by Ion Cantacuzino, who reportedly shouted out: \"Father, do not accept this sort of offices!\" \n\nConstantin's ascendancy led to the mass arrest of revolutionary leaders, who were then kept under armed guard at Cotroceni Monastery. His acts became the topic of a protest, submitted to Âli Pasha, the Ottoman Foreign Minister, by revolutionary agents Ion Ghica and Abdolonyme Ubicini. According to Ghica, Âli informed them that Cantacuzino had only been appointed \"Caimacam\" because Reshid Pasha had mistaken him for his more reformist brother. By then, the Revolution's triumvirate of Princely Lieutenants had dispersed: though Christian Tell and Nicolae Golescu suggested armed resistance, Ion Heliade Rădulescu resigned and retreated to his home, leaving the palace to be taken by Ottoman soldiers.\n\nOn September 24, Fuad and the \"Caimacam\" issued a deportation order for some of the core figures of the previous regime. The list included Bălcescu, Heliade, Voinescu II, and Nicolae Golescu, alongside Costache Aristia, Cezar Bolliac, Ion C. Brătianu, Dimitrie Brătianu, Ștefan Golescu, C. A. Rosetti, and Ioasaf Znagoveanu. Cantacuzino's other preoccupation as \"Caimacam\" was an investigation into looting and arson by rebellious peasants, for which purpose he founded and led a specialized boyar committee. In tandem, he and Fuad ordered Neofit II to expel revolutionary sympathizers from the ranks of his Wallachian Orthodox Bishopric. Assigning the direct supervision of education to Băleanu, Filipescu-Vulpea, and Petrache Poenaru, he initiated the purge of radical teachers, and, on November 1, personally ordered for all schools to be shut down. Ordering the remnants of the revolutionary army, under Gheorghe Magheru, to disband, he took hold of the arsenal of weapons collected by the deposed Lieutenants. He sent these arms to the Transylvanian Saxons, who used them in battle against the Hungarian State. \n\nThe \"Caimacam\" stood accused of orchestrating the ransacking of Heliade's home and of various acts of cruelty, including being seen as responsible for the prison death of poet Ion Catina, which his regime tried to conceal. Catina's brother was allegedly forced to deny that was the case, in a newspaper notice which also addressed thanks to the Russian army. According to a Heliade disciple, Nicolae Rusu Locusteanu, the new regime imposed an \"executioner\" in each Wallachian county. Though he endorsed additional clampdown measures, Cantacuzino was a moderate in this respect: Colonel Grigore Lăcusteanu, who organized the round-up, recalls that Fuad ordered him to limit the scope of his investigations, and also to submit to the \"Caimacam\"s every command. His son Ion was released from Cotroceni, and then successfully intervened to free another revolutionary, Nicolae Crețulescu.\n\nOn September 28, 1848, Cantacuzino and Fuad annulled the abolition of slavery, ordering the emancipated Romanies to return to their masters. The \"Caimacam\" also had a direct say in Wallachia's industrialization when, in March 1849, entrepreneur V. G. Browning presented him with designs for a large gristmill and bread factory. Additionally, Cantacuzino set aside funds for the restoration of Bucharest's Monument to the Russian Soldiers, which had been nearly completely vandalized during the Revolution. His municipal policies blended with repressive measures when he demoted Alexandru Orăscu, previously Bucharest's council architect, and promoted Xavier Vilacrosse. He also staged an inquiry into Iacob Melic's activity as a revolutionary architect, ordering him to pay back sums he owed to the city government of Bucharest an to \"Clucer\" Barbu Catargiu, and sequestering some of his assets. Lăcusteanu's attempt to arrest Melic's father-in-law, Hagi Nazaretian, was curbed by a riot of the local Armenians.\n\nCantacuzino intended to make his status permanent by being recognized as Prince. This project was backed by Nicolae Mavros, who also wanted Cantacuzino to take the Moldavian crown. Nevertheless, Mavros also proposed as a better candidate the Duke of Leuchtenberg. During 1849, the exiles continued to maneuver against Wallachian reactionaries: writing from Istanbul, Bălcescu insisted that the \"Caimacam\" was a Russophile who \"feigned friendship with the Turks.\" During the Cantacuzino regency, Wallachia was forced to accept a loan of 300,000 rubles, most of which went to paying for the upkeep of the Russian occupation force—meaning that Russia turned a profit from the expedition. \n\nCantacuzino's mandate expired in June 1849. His attempt to be recognized as Prince was frustrated, as Russia imposed Știrbei on the throne. That moment marked the peak of Duhamel's participation in Wallachian affairs, as Știrbei soon turned against his Russian backers. His bipartisan cabinet included Cantacuzino, purposefully selected among his rivals to serve as \"Logothete\". On August 23, he was advanced to Great \"Vornic\" and cited as \"honest and faithful to His Highness\". His 1848 victim Bolliac claimed that Cantacuzino had amassed a fortune from \"things he stole while in office\", having also received a prize of 25,000 ducats. The latter sum was ordered to be paid from the Wallachian treasury by Ottoman Sultan Abdulmejid I, who also granted Cantacuzino a snuffbox encrusted with precious stones. Știrbei took offense with this new duty, and, according to diverging sources, either refused to grant Cantacuzino the sum, or only paid it in installments. He also signed an order ending Cantacuzino's investigation of the peasant revolt. \n\nThe former \"Caimacam\" remained involved in the agrarian debates, opposing measures to liberalize transactions between boyars and tenant farmers. Against Știrbei's own recommendations, he supported keeping peasants under a system of leases which closely resembled indentured servitude. As Știbei's \"Vornic\" or Interior Minister in 1849–1850, Cantacuzino introduced more leniency toward imprisoned liberals, assessing pleas for amnesty and reporting on revolutionary Tănasie Macovei's sufferings from scrofula. However, he also recommended that the agitator Teodor Borcănescu be arrested and exiled to Poiana Mărului Monastery. In June 1851 Cantacuzino and his rival Bibescu were both visiting the French Republic, both of them courting the Wallachian revolutionaries in exile, ostensibly to win their support for their candidacies for the throne. News of this infuriated Bălcescu, who suggested \"that we kick these slick \"ciocoi\" [buzzards] in a certain spot on their bodies.\" By November 1850, Maria Mavros-Cantacuzino had also joined Bălcescu in exile, writing back to Vasile Alecsandri about their \"fraternal intimacy\".\n\nFrom October 1853, Russia and the Ottoman Empire fought with each other in what became known as the Crimean War. Știrbei left the country and Wallachia's fate remained uncertain. On July 31, 1854, the withdrawing Russian army, under Mikhail Dmitrievich Gorchakov, assigned Wallachia's administration to an Administrative Council, presided upon by Cantacuzino. Immediately after, he wrote to the Duke of Teschen, inviting the Austrian army to occupy Wallachia as a buffer zone. In early August, Cantacuzino welcomed in his home Halim Pasha, whose small expeditionary force restored an Ottoman presence in Bucharest; Austria's consul Anton Ritter von Laurin was also present. Presiding over a delegation that also included Câmpineanu and Alexandru II Ghica, Cantacuzino presented Sadyk Pasha and his Ottoman Cossacks with the keys to the city. Later that month, he similarly welcomed the Austrian troops, under Count Coronini, clearing the Mavros palace to serve as their headquarters.\n\nAgain hoping to be made \"Caimacam\" or Prince, Cantacuzino also welcomed Omar Pasha and lent him a luxurious carriage. On August 31, Dervish Ibrahim Pasha partly satisfied Cantacuzino's request, appointing him and Constantin Năsturel-Herescu to lead a provisional government which was to handle affairs until Știrbei's promised return. The new Council also included Ion Cantacuzino and another young boyar, Ioan Alecu Filipescu-Vulpache. According to the memoirs of Sadyk Pasha, the new regime also involved Alexandru Ghica and Câmpineanu; it was primarily pro-Ottoman, fearing Russia and, \"above all\", Austria. Grigore Cantacuzino was included in this administrative apparatus: with Sadyk and Carol Davila, he took measures to control the cholera epidemic, earning kudos from the Ottoman overseers.\n\nConstantin Cantacuzino and other \"old boyars\" found themselves tactically allied with Heliade and the Golescus in their repeated attempts to prevent Știrbei's return from Austria. He finally resigned on September 23, when Știrbei appointed an entirely new cabinet. During the following years, he was mainly noted as a patron of the arts. In 1855, he sponsored a debut play by lawyer Ioan Em. Bujoreanu, \"Fata supt epitrop\" (\"Chaperoned Girl\"). Probably at that stage, he commissioned a calligraphic and heraldic copy of his family's genealogy, originally written in the late 18th century by his ancestor, Mihai Cantacuzino; it remained one of the few surviving copies of the work. An 1861 notice in \"O Theatis\" newspaper described him as \"one of the most constant and enthusiastic spectators of [Bucharest's] Greek theater.\"\n\nIn late 1856, as Alexandru Ghica presided upon a new regency, the former \"Caimacam\" briefly returned as minister. After an initial attempt to get the throne for himself, Ion Cantacuzino rallied with the Știbeist party, which now sought to effect union between Wallachia and Moldavia. A member of the Ad hoc Divan following the election of 1857, he helped to draft its main resolutions. In 1858, he was Știrbei's envoy to Iași, allegedly gathering support for the unionist cause. A Cantacuzino faction still existed ahead of the January 1859 election, but was undecided between supporting three conservative candidates for the throne: Bibescu, Știbei, and Alexandru Ghica. Eventually, on January 12, Constantin put himself up as a candidate—although, as historian Nicolae Iorga notes, his chances of winning were minuscule. Twelve days later, progressives imposed a win for their own surprise candidate, Alexandru Ioan Cuza, a Moldavian. Also a member of the Divan (or Elective Assembly), Constantin validated the election and signed the address which sought to obtain Cuza's recognition as \"Domnitor\". Some of his 1848 enemies, including Rosetti and Nicolae Golescu, also endorsed that act.\n\nThe former \"Caimacam\" finally left Wallachia and settled in Paris, dying in exile in 1877. He was buried next to his wife (died 1839) and parents at Saint John the Great Church in Bucharest. When this building was demolished, their remains were reburied at Bellu cemetery, Plot 15. The \"Caimacam\" was survived by all his four children. Ion remained especially prominent as a minister of the United Principalities, and from 1863 one of Cuza's leading conservative opponents; his youngest brother, Adolf Cantacuzino (married to Ecaterina Iarca), was the very first President of the Court of Appeals. Having returned to Bucharest, Maria Mavros was noted for her philanthropic work during the Romanian War of Independence.\n\nIn 1857, Constantin and Zoe's only daughter, Alexandra or Alexandrina, had married General Gheorghe Manu, who later became Prime Minister of the Romanian Kingdom. She died in 1916. While Ion and Maria Cantacuzino had nine children together, Grigore died a celibate in 1903. Of the \"Caimacam\"s granddaughters, sisters Zoe and Sevastia became wives of two other Prime Ministers: the former married Dimitrie Sturdza, the latter Petre P. Carp. Also a Prime Minister, Gheorghe Grigore Cantacuzino was Constantin's nephew. \n\nOther descendants of the \"Caimacam\" included two famous grandsons: microbiologist Ioan Cantacuzino, born to Maria Mavros, and Adolf's son, the poet and diplomat Scarlat (Charles-Adolphe) Cantacuzino. During their lifetime, their grandfather's image in culture had been codified as negative, with literary historian Gheorghe Bogdan-Duică referring to the \"Caimacam\" as \"one of the most undeserving boyars this country ever had\". Constantin was also portrayed as an antagonist in Camil Petrescu's historical novel, \"Un om între oameni\".\n"}
{"id": "54190009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54190009", "title": "Costakis Koutsokoumnis", "text": "Costakis Koutsokoumnis\n\nCostakis Koutsokoumnis (; 5 May 1956 – 5 March 2018) was a Cypriot football administrator, and a member of the FIFA Council since 2017.\n\nKoutsokoumnis was president of the Cyprus Football Association from 2001 until his death in 2018.\n\nIn May 2017, he was elected to the FIFA Council, and was expected to serve until 2019. Koutsokoumnis died from cancer on 5 March 2018.\n"}
{"id": "42025607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42025607", "title": "David Jubb", "text": "David Jubb\n\nDavid Jubb is a neurobehavioral physiologist and blood formation specialist, who promotes fasting, whole brain functioning and a diet based on life food. Jubb also describes himself as a and a specialist in colloidal biology.\n\nJubb promotes a diet focused on food that has enzymes and “life-force”, the ability to reproduce, and which is found growing in the wild. This excludes raw meat and raw legumes, bananas, dates, corn, wheat, rice, milk, eggs, cheese, bread, soy milk, tofu, oats, beets, and carrots, because they “cause mold, fungus, and yeast” to grow in the body.\n\nJubb claims food with life-forces have “measurable biophotonic energy”. “[Cooked food] is an error because no other life force on the whole of the earth eats cooked food except for humans. If we were meant to eat cooked food wed be born with stoves attached,” he said.\n\nJubb promotes a 14 Day Nutritional Fast and Liver Flush and advises clients on nutritional fasts.\n\nHe learned of the life food diet from Ann Wigmore, and became her scientific advisor.\n\nJubb has claimed to be a breatharian, obtaining his primary nourishment from light and air. He described \"It's taken years of evolution to get to this place. I recommend someone first become a Lifefoodarian. Then move toward liquidarian, then to breatharian. Since 1995, I've basically practiced a very austere form of 'going without.'\n\nJubbs was a raw foodist for over a decade before the late 90’s when he says he began eating only herbal tea with honey, gaining his nutrition from \"intestinal flora and friendly yeast\" and his own urine. \"The ancient ones wanted us to know it's no secret why death occurs, so they put eat in the middle,\" he said \n\nJubb’s breatharianism is not constant, and it involves eating very little rather than nothing. \"When I have broken down over the years, what I always like to have is a piece of cheesecake,\" he said.\n\nJubb practices urine therapy, drinking his own urine a few times a day. \"I absolutely live off my own urine,” he said.\n\nJubb promotes his view on diet and nutrition via talks, classes, books, and his public television show \"The Universe Inside Our Mind\". He wrote \"Secrets of an Alkaline Body\" and \"Jubb's Cell Rejuvenation.\"\n\nDesigner Donna Karan followed the diet as well as other celebrities.\n\nJubb also maintains a wiki on topics such as “colloidal biology, zero point energy, cellular cleansing, whole brain functioning, lifefood, nutrition, ancient archeology, gender and economic egalitarianism.”\n\nHe ran a health food store in New York City called Jubbs' Longevity, which is no longer open.\n\nJubb grew up on the Furneaux Islands near Tasmania. He got his doctorate in physiology from New York University and became a raw foodist.\n\"I used to live off potatoes and bread. I was a starchaholic,\" he said.\n\nHe scuba dives, hikes, and practices yoga. He describes himself as “a Shaman in the Native American Toltec tradition” and a lover of Manhattan’s East VIllage.\n\n"}
{"id": "35086656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35086656", "title": "Elena Drobychevskaja", "text": "Elena Drobychevskaja\n\nElena Drobychevskaja, married Werner (; born 1968 in Minsk) is a Belarusian artist and graphic artist.\n\nDrobychevskaja had private tutition from 1986 until 1990 with Prof. Romanko (former dean of the \"Monumental Painting Department\" of the academy of arts) in Minsk. From 1989 until 1992 she studied as a graphic artist and animated film draftswomen at the department of cinematography in Moskow. From 1989 until 1995 she was employed by the film studio \"Belarusfilm\" in Minsk. From 1991 until 1994 she had a practical course under Prof. Tkaschenko (an accredited artist with his own master class) in Minsk in fields of specialization painting. Since 1995 she has been living in Munich, Germany.\n\nIn 1996/97 she worked at Bioskop-Film Munich as assistant animator on the animated cartoon project \"\" (\"The fearless Four\" – a modern remake of the Town Musicians of Bremen). The world premiere was in the Gloria Palace 1997 in Munich. Since 2003 she has been working as a freelance artist. Since 2009 member of artist association \"Artist Circle Haar\".\n\nDrobychevskaja works in a variety of media, including pastel, acrylics and oils. She prefers horses as a subject, which are valued by classicists of Spanish horses. She also paints other subjects, for instance, female nudes. Animals are often used in the artworks of Drobychevskaja, for example in the works \"Corrida\" and \"Wild Horse\". Abstract portraits are also a favoured subject. Drobychevskaja uses luminous colors, favouring red shades.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43115208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43115208", "title": "Eric Vanderburg", "text": "Eric Vanderburg\n\nEric Vanderburg is an American cyber security, storage networking and information technology professional and writer living in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nVanderburg is Vice President of Cybersecurity at TCDI and an author and speaker on information security. He has been interviewed on TV and radio to discuss information security and he presents and conferences and seminars and has participated in panels on information security.\n\nVanderburg attended Kent State University earning both a bachelor of Science in Technology and a Masters in Business Administration. He also has a Master of Business Administration (MBA), and pursued a doctorate in information assurance.\n\nVanderburg has been interested in technology from an early age, often reading through computer manuals in his library, thus allowing himself to learn \"some basics of programming\". After spending some time with hackers and \"Internet deviants\" in the early 1990s, he managed to turn his interest in IT security into a career, and since the late 1990s his interest has primarily been that of cybersecurity within the business world. He has also spoken about the development of DevOps in the business world.\n\nVanderburg founded Independent Systems Consulting, an IT consulting firm, in 1997, which he ran for almost ten years. He then joined Jurinnov in 2006 where he directed IT, digital forensics, and cybersecurity consulting teams. In 2009, he built a network operations center at Jurinnov's headquarters to monitor data center operations and to perform transaction monitoring of key business and client systems. In 2016, Vanderburg became Vice President of Cybersecurity at TCDI when TCDI acquired Jurinnov. He is also a TechMin Network board member.\n\nVanderburg was involved with Hitachi Data Systems in testing their Essential NAS product which he compared to the Netapp FAS3000 NAS and he partnered with Lateral Data in using their Viewpoint eDiscovery tool to perform large-scale litigation document review. He worked with Venio on their litigation review tool with early case assessment (ECA), and has worked with companies including Dell, Carbonite, BitDefender, Microsoft and AT&T.\n\nVanderburg has served as an expert witness in cases involving digital preservation, electronic communication, access control and confidential information disclosure, database management systems, and directory services.\n\nVanderburg taught courses in security, database management systems, and computer networking at Remington College's Cleveland-West campus as an instructor and chair of the Computer Networking Technology program. He served as an adjunct instructor in the Computer Information Systems department at Lorain County Community College in Elyria, Ohio. Vanderburg has delivered commencement speeches at the Vatterott College Cleveland campus 2010 commencement and Remington College Cleveland-West campus's final graduation in 2013. He has also taught web-based courses for professional development for eForensics Magazine. Vanderburg has served on the advisory boards for Remington College, Vatterott College, Lincoln School of Technology and Cuyahoga Community College Workforce and Economic Development Division (WEDD).\n\nVanderburg has published in CIO Magazine, eForensics Magazine, Network World, Computer World, Networks Asia Certification Magazine, PC Security World, CSO Magazine, ARN, TechWorld, and McGladrey Technology News Brief\nVanderburg also maintains a blog called Security Thinking Cap.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12414304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12414304", "title": "Ferrer d'Abella", "text": "Ferrer d'Abella\n\nFerrer d'Abella (or \"de Apilia\") was a Catalan Dominican friar, diplomat, and scholar of the fourteenth century. He was the Latin Archbishop of Neopatras from some time before June 1323 until September 1330, when he was made Bishop of Mazzara, in Sicily. He had tried to become Archbishop of Torres in Sardinia in 1325, but was met with opposition and animosity of Pope John XXII.\n\nHis influence with the House of Barcelona which ruled in Neopatras, Sicily, and Sardinia was great. He was succeeded in Neopatras by one John Mascó.\n\n"}
{"id": "1597888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597888", "title": "Friedrich Hecker", "text": "Friedrich Hecker\n\nFriedrich Franz Karl Hecker (September 28, 1811 – March 24, 1881) was a German lawyer, politician and revolutionary. He was one of the most popular speakers and agitators of the 1848 Revolution. After moving to the United States, he served as a brigade commander in the Union Army during the American Civil War.\n\nBorn at Eichtersheim (now Angelbachtal in Baden-Württemberg), the son of a revenue official, he studied law at the University of Heidelberg with the intention of becoming a lawyer. In Heidelberg he became a member of the Corps Rhenania. In 1838, he was an advocate before the Supreme Court in Mannheim. He abandoned the legal profession on being elected to the Second Chamber of Baden in 1842, and at once began to take part in the opposition against the government, which assumed a more and more openly radical character. His talents as an agitator and his personal charm won him wide popularity and influence. His influence helped to oust the Blittersdorf ministry from office.\n\nIn early 1845 the political issue of the incorporation of Schleswig and Holstein with Denmark arose in the public eye, with a particular interest to democratically minded politicians who favored unity of all the German states as a core of their programme. On February 6 he gave a speech opposing this annexation in the Baden Second Chamber, which gave him much notoriety outside Baden. On March 9 his friend and liberal compatriot died suddenly of a lung disease, marking the beginning an ever increasing tone of bitterness by Hecker toward the government. Later that year he and conducted a campaign of democracy, one result of which was his expulsion from Prussia on the occasion of a journey to Stettin, which had the effect of adding to his popularity. During this time, even before the outbreak of the revolution, he also began to lean towards socialism.\n\nIn 1847 he was temporarily occupied with ideas of emigration, and with this object made a journey to Algiers, but returned to Baden and resumed his former position as the radical champion of popular rights, later becoming president of the , where he was destined to fall still further under the influence of the agitator Gustav von Struve. In conjunction with Struve he drew up the radical programme carried at the great Liberal meeting held at Offenburg on September 12, 1847 (entitled \"Thirteen Claims put forward by the People of Baden\"). In addition to the Offenburg programme, the Sturm petition of March 1, 1848, attempted to extort from the government the most far-reaching concessions. But it was in vain that on becoming a deputy Hecker endeavoured to carry out its impracticable provisions. He had to yield to the more moderate majority, but on this account was driven still further towards the Left. The proof lies in the new Offenburg demands of March 19, and in the resolution moved by Hecker in the preliminary Frankfurt Parliament that Germany should be declared a republic. But neither in Baden nor Frankfurt did he at any time gain his point.\nThis double failure, combined with various energetic measures of the government, which were indirectly aimed at him (e.g. the arrest of the editor of the \"Constanzer Seeblatt\", a friend of Hecker's, in Karlsruhe station on April 8), inspired Hecker with the idea of an armed rising under pretext of the foundation of the German republic. The 9th to 11 April were secretly spent in preliminaries of what would be known as the Hecker Uprising. On April 12, Hecker and Struve sent a proclamation to the inhabitants of the Seekreis and of the Black Forest to summon the people who could bear arms to Donaueschingen at mid-day on the 14th, with arms, ammunition and provisions for six days. They expected 70,000 men, but only a few thousand appeared.\n\nThe grand-ducal government of the Seekreis was dissolved, and Hecker gradually gained reinforcements. But friendly advisers also joined him, pointing out the risks of his undertaking. Hecker, however, was not at all ready to listen to them. On the contrary, he added to violence an absurd defiance, and offered an amnesty to the German princes on condition of their retiring within fourteen days into private life. The troops of Baden and Hesse marched against him, under the command of General Friedrich von Gagern, and on April 20 they met near Kandern, where, although Gagern was killed, Hecker was completely defeated.\n\nHe fled into the Canton of Basel, where he published a radical newspaper, and wrote his work \"Die Volkserhebung in Baden\" (“The popular uprising in Baden”). Although he was again elected to the chamber of Baden, the government, no longer willing to respect his immunity as a deputy, refused its ratification. On being refused admission to the Frankfort Parliament, though twice elected to represent Thiengen, Hecker resolved in September 1848 to emigrate to North America like many other “Forty-Eighters,” and bought a farm near Belleville, Illinois.\n\nAfter moving to the United States, Hecker always maintained an acute interest in events in Germany. In the spring of 1849, the Baden revolution re-ignited, and Hecker returned to Europe to participate. However, he only made it as far as Strassburg when word came that the insurrection had been defeated by Prussian troops and he returned to Illinois. In 1851 he wrote a foreword to the German translation of Thomas Paine's \"The Rights of Man\" which was published in Leipzig in 1851.\n\nHowever, like most Forty-Eighters, his attention became increasingly focused on domestic political issues in the United States, and in particular the issue of abolishing slavery. When the Illinois Republican Party was organized at a convention in 1856, German-American Forty-Eighters were everywhere conspicuous in the proceedings; Hecker and Abraham Lincoln were selected to be the two electors-at-large if John Frémont were to win the state (which he did not). The Republicans attracted a wide array of political perspectives, with often strongly divergent views except for their opposition to slavery, and the interests of the immigrant Forty-Eighters was in conflict with the nativist Know Nothings. The influence of Hecker and the other German-American leaders was critical in keeping the party unified in regard to its most important principles.\n\nAfter the Battle of Fort Sumter, Lincoln called for 75,000 volunteers from among the state militia. The Illinois allotment of 6,000 volunteers was exceeded in five days. By June, ten regiments had been accepted, one of which was the 24th Illinois Infantry Regiment, commanded by now Colonel Hecker. The 24th Illinois was the first unit mobilized from Chicago, and was made up of German, Hungarian, Czech and Slovak immigrants, mostly Forty-Eighters. In the early days of the war, the 24th Illinois primarily was assigned to garrison and other rear echelon duties in the western theaters. Under the conditions of dreary guard duty, and not being professional soldiers, morale and discipline faltered, and Hecker resigned his command on December 23, 1861. The 24th continued on, still under the informal name of \"Hecker's Old Regiment,\" and saw action throughout the western theater, including at Chickamauga.\n\nIn October 1862, he became colonel of the 82nd Illinois Infantry Regiment. Approximately two-thirds of its members were German immigrants and most of the other third was composed of immigrants from various countries. Company C was entirely made up of European Jews, and Company I was all Scandinavians. The unit served in the eastern campaigns, and Hecker was badly wounded at Chancellorsville on May 2, 1863. After recovering from his wounds, he later served at the Battle of Missionary Ridge and in the capturing of Chattanooga and Knoxville. Hecker resigned this command on March 21, 1864, but like the 24th Illinois, \"Hecker's Second Regiment\" continued on active duty for the remainder of the war.\n\nWhen Hecker returned home, almost immediately he became involved in a political split in the Republican Party. Dissatisfaction among radical republicans with Lincoln's middle political road came to a head in May 1864 when Hecker led a faction of Frémont supporters to oppose Lincoln's renomination. The Lincoln faction won, and Hecker and others organized an independent convention in Cleveland to nominate Frémont (Frémont ultimately withdrew). The effect, in the end, was to strengthen Lincoln's candidacy among mainstream Republicans.\n\nAfter the war, Hecker returned to his farm in Illinois. It was with great joy that he heard of the union of Germany brought about by the victory over France in 1870-71. It was then that he gave his famous address at St. Louis, in which he gave animated expression to the enthusiasm of the German Americans for their newly united fatherland. After the war, he became more and more involved in the German-language press and Republican Party activities. He received a less favourable impression when he visited Germany in 1873 for criticizing lack of individual rights and the size of government in the new German government organization. He died at his farm in Summerfield, Illinois on March 24, 1881.\n\nHecker was always very much a favourite with all the German democrats. The song (\"Heckerlied\") and the hat named after him (a broad slouch hat with a feather) became famous as the symbols of the middle-classes in revolt. In America he won great esteem, not only on political grounds but also for his personal qualities.\n\nAmong Hecker's male-line descendants are US Army Col. Bill Hecker, a veteran of the Vietnam War, and Major William F. Hecker, a former English instructor at West Point and scholar of Edgar Allan Poe's military career who was killed in the Iraq War in 2006.\n\nSome published works by Friedrich Hecker\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5165857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165857", "title": "Ilpo Larha", "text": "Ilpo Larha\n\nIlpo Tapio Larha (19 July 1968 in Helsinki, Finland – 17 March 1994 in Lahti, Finland) was a Finnish criminal.\n\nLarha became famous when he committed the contract murder of 77-year-old crippled businessman Wilhelm Högsten in Jollas, a suburb of Helsinki, on 24 April 1992. Larha was hired by Högsten's 47-year-old son Fred. Larha, Högsten and 31-year-old businessman Hannu Ratia, who drove Larha to the site of the murder, were sentenced to life in prison.\n\nOn 25 February 1994 Larha escaped from a Helsinki state prison with 37-year-old Kullervo Haikas, alias Pertti Ruokolainen, who had been serving a 13-year sentence for drug crimes. \n\nOn 1 March, Larha robbed a bank in Pitäjänmäki, nearly killing a cashier.\nAfter this, Larha and Haikas barricaded themselves with two hostages in an apartment in Lahti. Police discovered them on 15 March. This started a siege that lasted for 55 hours. While Haikas and the hostages were rescued, Larha committed suicide on 17 March 1994, shooting himself simultaneously with two handguns.\n\nFinland's president Tarja Halonen pardoned Hannu Ratia in the end of 2005 and Fred Högsten in May 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2330773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2330773", "title": "John Friedrich (fraudster)", "text": "John Friedrich (fraudster)\n\nJohann Friedrich Hohenberger OAM (7 September 195027 July 1991), also known as John Friedrich, was executive director of the National Safety Council of Australia during the 1980s. He was the subject of Victoria's biggest fraud case and known as \"Australia's greatest conman\".\n\nHohenberger was a West German national. In August 1972, he began working as an independent contractor with the German road construction company Strassen und Teerbau. Around July 1974, he forged road building orders from distant mountain towns and used them to order Strassen und Teerbau to build roads. No roads were ever built, and no earthworks or materials were ever bought. Hohenberger embezzled DM200,000 from the company.\n\nHohenberger was on a skiing holiday in Italy at the time German police issued a warrant for his arrest. He never returned to Germany. Having gone out onto the slopes and not returned, it was thought he had died. Although German police were sceptical of his disappearance, believing that somebody had tipped him off to the investigation, the discovery of his bags over a year later reinforced the theory that he had either had an accident or committed suicide.\n\nOn 20 January 1975, Hohenberger arrived in Melbourne on a flight from Auckland, New Zealand. According to Department of Immigration records, Hohenberger left Australia on a flight to Singapore on 22 January. It is thought he tricked Australian Customs into believing he had boarded a plane but remained in Australia.\n\nUsing the name John Friedrich and fake qualifications, Hohenberger obtained a contract with construction company Codelfa Cogefar, working on part of the Melbourne underground rail loop. He subsequently worked for the Board of Ecumenical Missions and Relations (BOEMAR), a Uniting Church in Australia organisation responsible for the Church's Aboriginal missions. He was offered the position of community adviser at Ernabella in South Australia, where he was to assist the Aboriginal community with its development and to supervise civil works.\n\nWhile working in Ernabella, Friedrich became ill with a serious infection and was treated by nurse Shirley Manning. Friedrich and Manning became engaged in October 1975 and married on 10 February 1976 in Sydney. They moved to the BOEMAR mission on Mornington Island, where Shirley was to work as a nursing sister and John as the manager. During his time on Mornington, Friedrich was responsible to the Australian Government as well as to the Church. While the Church was only concerned with the day-to-day running of the island, as an agent of the government, Friedrich acted as a coastal watcher for the Royal Australian Navy, a fisheries officer, a licensee for the government-owned pub, an agent for a shipping company and the airline that serviced the island, a reporting officer for the Department of Civil Aviation. Friedrich also began studying again while at Mornington, working on an external master's degree in engineering science with the University of Queensland. The Friedrichs resigned from BOEMAR in late 1976 but stayed to oversee relief opportunities until January 1977 after Cyclone Ted destroyed 90 per cent of all buildings on the island.\n\nIn November 1976, the Friedrichs had taken a holiday to Victoria. While there, having seen an advertisement in \"The Age\", Friedrich applied for the position of safety engineer with the National Safety Council of Australia (NSCA) Victorian Division, to be based at the State Electricity Commission of Victoria (SECV) Yallourn power station in the Latrobe Valley. Upon returning to Mornington, Friedrich was informed that the job at Yallourn was his if he wanted it. Friedrich began working for the NSCA in January 1977.\nFriedrich became executive director of NSCA in 1982 and began to transform it into a national search and rescue organisation. He built up the company with loans in which 27 banks agreed to lend millions of dollars with little more surety than Friedrich's word. McGregor-Lowndes attributes this lack of probity to the halo effect of NSCA and Friedrich himself. In 1988, he was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia (OAM) \"in recognition of service to the community, particularly in the area of industrial safety and search and rescue services\".\n\nFollowing the financial collapse of NSCA in 1989, Friedrich went into hiding. After a nationwide and international manhunt, involving all Australian police forces and Interpol, he was arrested in Perth, Western Australia on 6 April 1989. He was initially charged with one count of obtaining financial advantage by deception. On 1 November, he was charged on a further 91 counts of obtaining property by deception.\n\nIn subsequent investigations, it was discovered that Friedrich was not an Australian citizen, did not possess any valid birth certificate, and did not appear on any electoral roll. This caused considerable embarrassment to the Department of Defence, which had given him a security clearance and almost unlimited access to Royal Australian Air Force bases.\n\nThe Friedrichs lived with Shirley's brother in Sydney until the start of the trial. On 23 July 1991, Friedrich appeared in court for fraud involving $296,662,436.99.\n\nOn 27 July 1991, Friedrich was found dead on his farm near Sale, Victoria with a single gunshot wound to the head in in wide open muddy field. A helicopter was seen flying low over this area prior to the discovery of the mans body. His death was ruled to be suicide.\n\nFriedrich was writing an autobiography with the assistance of Richard Flanagan at the time of his death. It was published posthumously. In it, he claimed to have been born in South Australia in 1945 to German parents, attended boarding school in West Germany and studied engineering at the Technische Hochschule. Friedrich also claimed that, while working for an American construction company, he was recruited by the Central Intelligence Agency and, under the codename \"Iago\", worked in Laos, Vietnam, Egypt, New Zealand and West Germany against far left-wing extremists before returning to Australia in 1975. Simon Caterson, writing in \"The Australian\", described it as \"one of the least reliable but most fascinating memoirs in the annals of Australian publishing\". A subsequent 2017 essay by Caterson likening Friedrich to Jeff Tracy is titled \"John Friedrich: Australia's Most Altruistic Fraudster\".\n"}
{"id": "37153805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37153805", "title": "Jordi Puig-Suari", "text": "Jordi Puig-Suari\n\nJordi Puig-Suari is a professor and aerospace technology developer. He is the co-inventor of the CubeSat standard, and the co-founder of Tyvak Nano-Satellite Systems.\n\nPuig-Suari obtained his BS and MS degrees from Purdue University School of Aeronautics and Astronautics, in 1988 and 1990, respectively. He then completed PhD dissertation at Purdue with Professor James Longuski as thesis advisor.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1998, he was an Assistant Professor in the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at Arizona State University. \nPuig-Suari is a professor at Cal Poly, and served as Chair of the Aerospace Engineering Department at Cal Poly from 2004 to 2008.\n\nAs of 2017, Puig-Suari had participated in 8 satellite development efforts and the launch of over 130 CubeSats worldwide. \nIn 2011 Puig-Suari and Scott MacGillivray, former manager of nanosatellite programs for Boeing Phantom Works, established Tyvak Nano-Satellite Systems in San Luis Obispo, California, to sell miniature avionics packages for small satellites, with the goal to increase the volume available for payloads.\n\n"}
{"id": "53598821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53598821", "title": "Julian W. Hill", "text": "Julian W. Hill\n\nJulian W. Hill (1904-1996) was an American chemist who helped develop nylon.\n\nJulian W. Hill was born in 1904, and he grew up in Warrenton, Missouri. He graduated from the Washington University in St. Louis in 1924, where he earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering, and he went on to earn a PhD in organic chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1928.\n\nHill joined DuPont, where he worked as a chemist in the Experimental Station laboratories under Wallace H. Carothers's supervision. He initially studied polymers in the 1920s. By 1930, he had used a cold drawing method to produce a polyester. Hill's cold drawing method was used by Carothers in 1934 to develop the polyamide later named nylon, which was patented by DuPont and was a greater commercial success due to its higher melting point.\n\nHill was promoted to Assistant Director of the Chemical Department. He also served on DuPont's steering committee from 1932 to 1951. He became the Chair of DuPont's Committee on Educational Aid in 1951, and he helped fund academic programs in the United States until his retirement in 1964.\n\nHill married Mary Louisa \"Polly\" Butcher, a Vassar College alumna, in 1931. They had two sons and a daughter. He suffered from poliomyelitis. He retired at the Cokesbury Village retirement village in Hockessin, Delaware with his wife, where he died on January 29, 1996.\n"}
{"id": "427376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427376", "title": "Kevan Jones", "text": "Kevan Jones\n\nKevan David Jones (born 25 April 1964) is a British Labour Party politician, who has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for North Durham since 2001. He resigned as a shadow defence minister in January 2016 in protest against a front bench reshuffle by Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn.\n\nJones was born in Nottinghamshire and is the son of a coal miner. He attended Portland Comprehensive School in Worksop and Newcastle Polytechnic and the University of Southern Maine, gaining a BA (Hons) in Government and Public Policy. Before becoming an MP, he was a Newcastle upon Tyne councillor from 1990 to 2001 and Chairman of the Development Committee as well as an elected officer of the GMB Union.\n\nJones was first elected as MP for North Durham in 2001 with a majority of 18,681. After becoming member of Parliament, Jones became a member of the influential Defence Select Committee, and also a member of the Labour Party's Parliamentary Committee. His Private Member's Bill, the Christmas Day (Trading) Act 2004, successfully passed Parliament, and came into force in December 2004. The Act makes it illegal for large shops to open on Christmas Day.\n\nHe was re-elected to the North Durham seat in the 2005 general election, with a majority of 16,781. He polled 64.1% of the vote. His campaigning on behalf of people who had coal health compensation payments deducted by unscrupulous claims handlers influenced the Compensation Act 2006\n\nJones was appointed Parliamentary Under Secretary of State and Minister for Veterans at the Ministry of Defence in October 2008.\n\nIn August 2009 he was accused of briefing against the Chief of the General Staff, General Sir Richard Dannatt, who had been an outspoken critic of the government's record on equipping troops.\nA series of FOI requests had been made concerning Dannat's expenses, and blogger Guido Fawkes 'outed' Jones as the culprit, although he did not provide any evidence that directly connected Jones to the requests. Jones, who had tabled Parliamentary questions on Army officials' spending before becoming a minister, denied the allegations and said he had a good working relationship with Dannatt.\n\nJones publicly apologised to Joanna Lumley in March 2010 after he had accused her of \"deathly silence\" over misleading advice being given to some Gurkhas following Lumley's successful campaign to allow more Gurkhas to settle in the UK.\n\nIn May 2010 Harriet Harman appointed Jones Shadow Minister for the Armed Forces, outside the Shadow Cabinet. He retained this position under Labour leader Ed Miliband and in Jeremy Corbyn's first appointment of shadow ministers in 2015.\n\nHe became a member of the special Select Committee set up to scrutinise the Bill that became the Armed Forces Act 2011. He was also a member of the Public Bill Committee for the Defence Reform Act 2014\n\nIn December 2015 Jones made public his strong criticism of the new Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, in particular after Corbyn opposed military intervention in the Syrian Civil War. Jones stated \"because of [Corbyn's] incompetence, the Tories are getting away with things that are not being properly scrutinised and the people who are suffering are the ones that we represent.\"\n\nJones supported the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen.\n\nHe is Treasurer of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Industrial Heritage.\n\nIn January 2016, Jones resigned as a Shadow Minister for the Armed Forces, following a reshuffle in which Jeremy Corbyn had promoted Emily Thornberry, who opposes the replacement of the Trident nuclear weapon system, to shadow Defence Secretary. In his resignation letter, Jones said he believed that the country had to \"maintain a credible nuclear deterrent, while working to advance global nuclear disarmament.\"\n\nIn 2012, in a debate in Parliament on mental health issues and their taboo, Jones spoke about his own battles with depression, alongside Conservative back-bencher Charles Walker, who spoke about his own 30-year battle with obsessive–compulsive disorder. Jones stated that he had suffered with depression since 1996. Jones and Walker were both later praised for their speeches by Time to Change, a mental health anti-stigma campaign run by charities Mind and Rethink Mental Illness.\n\nIn November 2015, after the appointment of the former Mayor of London Ken Livingstone to co-chair the Labour Party's review of whether to replace the Trident nuclear missile system, Jones, a Shadow Junior Defence Minister, told the PoliticsHome website he was not sure Livingstone knew anything about defence and his appointment would only damage credibility among those who care about defence. In response, Livingstone told the \"Daily Mirror\" and others that Jones was \"obviously depressed and disturbed\" and \"should see a GP\". Jones responded that the remarks \"belong in the dark ages\" and that mental health should not be used to attack political differences. Livingstone eventually apologised, only doing so unreservedly via Twitter after intervention by Labour Leader Jeremy Corbyn. It was later noted in passing that Jones had himself in 2010 ridiculed a political viewpoint by reference to \"the nearest lunatic asylum\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2938886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2938886", "title": "Lewis Goldsmith", "text": "Lewis Goldsmith\n\nLewis Goldsmith (c. 1763 – 6 January 1846) was an Anglo-French publicist of Portuguese-Jewish extraction. He is thought to have been born in Richmond, Surrey.\n\nIn 1801, Goldsmith published \"The Crimes of Cabinets, or a Review of the Plans and Aggressions for Annihilating the Liberties of France and the Dismemberment of her Territories\", an attack on the military policy of Pitt. Soon afterward, in 1802, he moved from London to Paris. There Talleyrand introduced him to Napoleon. With Napoleon's assistance, Goldsmith established the \"Argus\", a biweekly publication in English reviewing English affairs from a French point of view.\n\nIn 1803, according to Goldsmith's own account, he was entrusted with a mission to obtain from the Comte de Provence, the head of the French royal family and subsequent King Louis XVIII, a renunciation of his claim to the throne of France in return for the throne of Poland. The offer was declined. Goldsmith says he then received instructions to kidnap Louis, or to kill him if he resisted. Instead, Goldsmith revealed the plot. Until 1807, however, when his Republican sympathies began to wane, Goldsmith continued to undertake secret service missions on behalf of Napoleon.\n\nGoldsmith's hand has been seen in the \"Revolutionary Plutarch\" of 1804–05, an \"émigré\" work edited in London, and with a title harking back to the \"British Plutarch\" of Thomas Mortimer. That would imply that Goldsmith was by then already playing a double game.\n\nGoldsmith returned to England in 1809. At first he was arrested and imprisoned, but soon was released and established himself as a notary in London. By 1811 he had become strongly anti-republican, founding the \"Anti-Gallican Monitor\" and \"Anti-Corsican Chronicle\" (subsequently known as the \"British Monitor\") through which he now denounced the French Revolution. He proposed that a price be put on Napoleon's head by public subscription, but found himself condemned by the British government. In 1810 he published \"Secret History of the Cabinet of Bonaparte\" and \"Recueil des manifestes, proclamations, discours, etc. de Napoleon Buonaparte\" (Collection of the Decrees of Napoleon Bonaparte); and in 1812 he published a \"Secret History of Bonaparte's Diplomacy\". He claimed Napoleon then offered him 200,000 [francs?] to discontinue his attacks. In 1815, he published \"An Appeal to the Governments of Europe on the Necessity of Bringing Napoleon Bonaparte to a Public Trial\".\n\nIn 1825, he moved back to Paris, publishing his \"Statistics of France\" a few years later. His only child, Georgiana, become the second wife of John Copley, 1st Baron Lyndhurst in 1837. He died ‘of paralysis’ after an illness lasting several months, in his home on the Rue de la Paix, Paris, on 6 January 1846.\n\n"}
{"id": "26307866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26307866", "title": "Lionel Cronjé", "text": "Lionel Cronjé\n\nLionel Cronjé (born 25 May 1989) is a South African rugby union footballer, currently playing for Japanese Top League side Toyota Verblitz. He is a versatile back-line player who can operate as a fly-half or full-back.\n\nCronjé previously played for the Stormers and Western Province before making the move north ahead of the 2012 Super Rugby season. He could play only five matches for the Blue Bulls due to a chest injury suffered in February 2012.\n\nHe joined the for 2013 and the for 2014.\n\nHe returned to South Africa later in 2014, signing a two-year deal with Durban-based side the . He was released by the Sharks in November 2015.\n\nHe joined Japanese Top League side Toyota Verblitz for the 2017–18 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "57782816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57782816", "title": "List of Armenian Heroes of the Soviet Union", "text": "List of Armenian Heroes of the Soviet Union\n\nThis article contains a list of recipients of the Hero of the Soviet Union award who were of Armenian nationality. \n\nThe title \"Hero of the Soviet Union\" (; Russian: Герой Советского Союза, \"Geroy Sovietskovo Soyuza\") was the highest distinction awarded by the Soviet Union to citizens or foreigners for heroic feats in service of the Soviet state or society.\n\n"}
{"id": "51288367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51288367", "title": "List of Marshals of Austria", "text": "List of Marshals of Austria\n\nThe Marshal (German: \"Marschall\") was the highest military rank in the Austrian monarchy.\n\n\nAfter the death of Leopold VI, Duke of Austria in 1230, the Kuenrings kept the title Marshal of Austria until being forcibly removed by the Habsburgs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24719183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24719183", "title": "List of TV Guide covers (1970s)", "text": "List of TV Guide covers (1970s)\n\nThis is a list of issue covers of \"TV Guide\" magazine from the decade of the 1970s, from January 1970 to December 1979. The entries on this table include each cover's subjects and their artists (photographer or illustrator). This list is for the regular weekly issues of \"TV Guide\"; any one-time-only special issues are not included.\n\n"}
{"id": "184277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184277", "title": "Lists of people by nationality", "text": "Lists of people by nationality\n\nDelineating notable nationals of nation-states, their significant dependent territories, or of historic and aspirant nations, e.g., Puerto Ricans, Fijians.\nExcluding those ethnicities represented above, delineating notable according to their ethnic origin, e.g., Hispanics. For further information on appropriate categorisation, please refer to the discussion page.\nLists of notables by geographic birth location, not by ethnicity or national birth location.\n\nDelineating notables according to their native language, e.g., Hebrew speakers, Anglophones.\n\nArabs from the language Arabic\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4441582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4441582", "title": "Loyd Auerbach", "text": "Loyd Auerbach\n\nLoyd Auerbach is a parapsychologist, ghost hunter, and mentalist, performing under the name \"Professor Paranormal\".\n\nLoyd Auerbach is the son of Barbara Auerbach and Richard \"Dick\" Auerbach, the latter a long time producer and executive at NBC Sports and an independent producer of the Rose Bowl Game and Tournament of Roses Parade. He graduated from Northwestern University in 1978 with a Bachelor's degree in Cultural Anthropology.\n\nAuerbach was a columnist for \"Fate\" magazine from 1991 through 2004.\n\nHe was the Public Information and Media Consultant to the American Society for Psychical Research in 1982-83, on the Core Faculty of the Graduate Parapsychology Program at John F. Kennedy University, and the Advisory Board of the Rhine Research Center. Auerbach runs his own ghost hunting business called The Office of Paranormal Investigations. He also teaches one online course at Atlantic University.'\n\nAuerbach says he gained attention in 1984 due to the popularity of the 1984 film \"Ghostbusters\".\n\nHe has appeared on paranormal-related programs for the Discovery Channel, the Travel Channel, The Learning Channel, A&E, the History Channel, the Sci Fi Channel and TechTV. In addition, he has appeared on hundreds of local and national radio programs, and television programs such as \"The View\", \"Larry King Live\", \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"\", \"Late Night with David Letterman\", and \"Popular Mechanics for Kids\". He's also been featured in the book Encyclopedia Horrifica.\n\nAuerbach performs a mentalist act as \"Professor Paranormal\", working mainly on the college circuit. He's served on the board of directors and as President of the Psychic Entertainers Association. He offers guided chocolate tasting presentations and chocolate under his brand \"Haunted By Chocolate\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40473120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40473120", "title": "Luis Gutiérrez (wine critic)", "text": "Luis Gutiérrez (wine critic)\n\nLuis Gutiérrez is a wine critic based in Madrid, Spain. He reviews wines from Spain, as well as Chile and Argentina for Robert Parker's Wine Advocate and eRobertParker.com, the bimonthly wine publication and website founded by wine critic, Robert Parker.\n\nGutiérrez began his career as an IT professional and worked as a business management executive in Madrid for more than two decades for the large multinational company, Tetra Pak, while devoting much of his free time to wine.\n\nHe is a founding member of elmundovino.com, a wine website published in Spanish, where he has written since its creation in the year 2000. He has also written for other publications belonging to the El Mundo newspaper in Spain as well as contributing to various wine and gastronomy publications in Spain, Portugal, Puerto Rico and the UK. From May 2011 to early 2013, Gutiérrez was the Spanish specialist correspondent for Jancisrobinson.com. He was the main contributor of the Spanish entries for the 2008 book \"1001 Wines You Must Taste Before You Die\" and is the co-author of \"The Finest Wines of Rioja and Northwest Spain\" published in 2011 in the UK and US and in 2012 in Japan.\n\nHe was awarded the title Cavaleiro da Confraria do Vinho do Porto in 2004 and received the Spanish National Gastronomy Award for journalism in November 2012 from the Spanish Minister for Tourism. \"The Finest Wines of Rioja and Northwest Spain\" won the 2011 André Simon Special Commendation Award in London.\n\nAs a taster, he has won the Spanish blind tasting championship for pairs (with Ignacio Villalgordo) which Vila Viniteca organizes yearly, and he has been a part of the elmundovino.com team which has twice placed second, in 2009 and 2010, in La Revue du Vin de France's European blind tasting championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46561601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46561601", "title": "Mel Cornshucker", "text": "Mel Cornshucker\n\nMel Cornshucker (born October 4, 1952) is a contemporary Cherokee potter living in Tulsa, Oklahoma, who works in stoneware, porcelain, and raku clay. Cornshucker is known for his high-fire stoneware, decorated with hand-painted, Native-inspired motifs and designs.\n\nBorn and raised in Jay, Oklahoma, and a member of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians, Cornshucker was inspired by other artists in his family including his grandfather, Lincoln Trotting Wolf's, talent for weaving. His grandfather built his own rug loom on which he made rugs and blankets on the front porch. Cornshucker's cousins were basket weavers and his father was a silversmith, allowing him several creative outlets in his youth. Cornshucker spent many summers with his Cherokee family in Jay. He had positive encouragement in public schools when he began making figurines out of wet plaster and metal sculptures.\n\nAfter graduating high school in 1970, Cornshucker briefly attended Bacone College in Muskogee, Oklahoma before transferring to Southwest Baptist University in Bolivar, Missouri working to become a tribal lawyer. It was during this time, Cornshucker took college art class which sparked his interest in pottery. Cornshucker was hired in 1975 to work as an apprentice potter in the Missouri theme park, Silver Dollar City. This job opportunity allowed him a lot of room to grow because he was perfecting his art every day for three to four hours for tourists. He left Silver Dollar City in 1977 and moved to Colorado where he became a land surveyor. After six months, Cornshucker moved back home to set up his own studio in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nWhen Cornshucker set up in his own studio, he began to compete in more booth shows as well as galleries. When Cornshucker began to do more Native shows, he experienced an increase in the amount of galleries taking on his work. In the early 1980's, Cornshucker would do approximately 15-16 gallery shows per year. Cornshucker also began incorporating his trademark Native motifs on his pottery around this time. The dragonfly was a special symbol for him not only because of its symbolism for many tribal cultures, but also because of its association with his grandfather, Lincoln Trotting Wolf. Cornshucker is also part owner of the Brady Artists Studio with Donna Prigmore.\n\nIn 2007, Cornshucker was selected to participate in a cultural exchange with African artists, put on by the Kellogg Foundation in tandem with the Institute of American Indian Arts of Santa Fe. Cornshucker worked in a Zulu village and put on a workshop for the Zulu potters. The goal of this program was for the American potters to offer tips and advice on how to better market the Zulu potters' work. Cornshucker helped influence the creation of clay masks and rattles to be sold in the markets.\n\nCornshucker is considered a modern potter who values the functionality of his pieces while aesthetically including Native American motifs in his signature designs. He strives to create pieces that communicate past and present Native American spirit which reflects his heritage and honors the creativity of man over time. He has shown his work in a variety of nationally significant markets, including the Eiteljorg Indian Market and Festival, the Sante Fe Indian Market, the Pueblo Grande Museum Indian Art Show in Phoenix, and the Contemporary Indian Art Show at Cahokia.\n\n2007 Selected for a cultural artist exchange with South Africa, sponsored by the Kellogg Foundation and Institute of American Indian Art.\n\n2014 winner of the modern pottery category for the Red Earth Native American Cultural Festival in Oklahoma.\n\n2014 Greater Tulsa Indian Art Festival. Best of Show\n2014 Greater Tulsa Area Indian Affairs Commission. Moscelyne Larkin Cultural Achievement Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "26136500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26136500", "title": "Merlin Miller", "text": "Merlin Miller\n\nMerlin L. Miller (born 1956) is an American Paleoconservative political activist, independent film director, writer, and producer. His works include the 1998 television film \"A Place to Grow\", starring Gary Morris, and the 2000 film \"Jericho\", starring Mark Valley. During the 2000s he founded a Tennessee-based production company, Americana Pictures. He has also written articles for the \"Barnes Review\" and the \"Occidental Observer\".\n\nMiller was the 2012 presidential nominee of the white nationalist American Freedom Party. Cuban-American professor and political activist Virginia Abernethy was his running-mate.\n\nMiller was born Des Moines, Iowa in 1956, and raised there as well. He states that he worked as an Industrial engineering manager for Michelin Tire Company. Miller says that in his childhood, he admired Walt Disney and Davy Crockett.\n\nIn 1989, Miller produced and edited \"Devil Rider\", a horror movie starring Tag Groat as the title character. In 1991, Miller produced David Heavener's crime film \"Prime Target\", starring Heavener as policeman John Bloodstone and Isaac Hayes as Captain Tompkins.\n\nIn 1992, Miller co-produced the action film \"A Mission to Kill\", starring William Smith as a mentally unstable Vietnam veteran, Boris Catuli. Tag Groat, who played the title role in \"Devil Rider\", also appeared in this film.\n\nIn 1998, Miller returned to the film business with \"A Place to Grow\", which he wrote, directed, and produced. The movie starred country singer Gary Morris; actors John Beck and Wilford Brimley, as well as hobo music artist Boxcar Willie, also appeared in it. >\n\nIn 2000, Miller produced and directed a western movie, \"Jericho\", with Mark Valley as the title character. Retired Marine Corps drill instructor R. Lee Ermey appeared in the movie, as did Buck Taylor and country artist Lisa Stewart.\n\nMiller's shift in ideology led him to found Americana Pictures, based in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, Miller's current home. According to its mission statement, the company aims \"to develop, produce and market quality motion pictures, which promote fresh talent and the best of traditional European-American ideals.\" Americana Pictures' first film was said to be about the USS Liberty incident, which he referred to as a \"shocking Israeli attack\" on the United States. He said he was planning to produce \"The Liberator\" (which was to be based on the history of Arminius and the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest).\n\nHe wrote a favorable review of the Martin Campbell movie \"Edge of Darkness\".\n\nDuring the 2000s, Miller began to take on an increasingly paleoconservative political stance. He also became harshly critical of Hollywood, claiming that it \"surreptitiously seeks to destroy our European-American heritage and our Christian-based traditional values, and replace them with values that debase these traditional values and elevate minorities as paragons of virtue and wisdom...Today's motion pictures, in concert with other forms of mass media entertainment, are the greatest enemies to the well-being of our progeny and the future of our country.\" Miller has also accused Hollywood of being under \"Jewish-Zionist control\"; he cites Kevin B. MacDonald as influencing this belief. He has criticized celebrities such as Quentin Tarantino and Madonna, saying that they are \"dysfunctional\" and \"come from traditional Christian or European-American backgrounds but are notorious for spurning those values.\" He has cited Mel Gibson and his self-marketed movie \"The Passion of the Christ\" as inspirations.\n\nMiller also spoke at the 2008 national conference of the Council of Conservative Citizens, an organization he is a member of. Miller has stated that while he does not share all the goals of the COfCC members, and rejects \"extremist stances\", he nonetheless agrees with the group's statement of principles. Miller states that he \"doesn't like\" interracial marriage; however, he does not support outlawing interracial marriage, either. Miller has denied being anti-Semitic, instead claiming that he merely opposes \"favoritism\" granted to Jews in the film industry. He also opposes illegal immigration and what he refers to as \"wide open borders\" in the United States.\n\nAfter his return from Iran in 2012, he wrote on his website that he realized that the people who wanted a war between the US and Iran are \"globalists (international bankers and their multinational beneficiaries). They control Israel, the American media and most of our politicians…and by extension our foreign policy.\"\n\nIn 2008, Miller contributed $200 to the presidential campaign of Republican Congressman Ron Paul. He also served as a delegate for Paul's campaign.\n\nIn January 2012, Miller was nominated by the American Freedom Party for President of the United States in the 2012 election. He is the first presidential candidate ever nominated by the party, which was founded in 2010. He has gained ballot access in Colorado, New Jersey and Tennessee. During the 2012 election, he received 2,307 votes (~0.0%) in these states.\n\nIn September 2012, Miller met with Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmedinejad for nearly 20 minutes and discussed a number of issues, including what both Miller and Ahmedinejad characterize as the \"zionist-controlled media\" in the West. Miller publicly defended Ahmedinejad as someone who has been unfairly demonized in western media and who cares about his people. Ahmedinejad gave Miller a collection of poems by Omar Khayyam.\n\n"}
{"id": "1289281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289281", "title": "Moses de León", "text": "Moses de León\n\nMoses de León (c. 1240 – 1305), known in Hebrew as Moshe ben Shem-Tov (), was a Spanish rabbi and Kabbalist who is considered the composer or redactor of the Zohar. It is a matter of controversy if the Zohar is his own work, or if he committed traditions going back to Rabbi Shimon bar Yohai in writing. His other works include \"Sefer ha-Rimon\", written in Hebrew.\n\nHe was born in León, Spain, Kingdom of León, then united with the Crown of Castile. He might have been born in Guadalajara and his surname, then, comes from his father, Shem-Tov de León. He spent 30 years in Guadalajara and Valladolid before moving to Ávila, where he spent the rest of his life. He died at Arévalo in 1305 while returning to his home.\n"}
{"id": "53834162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53834162", "title": "Orrin S. Wood", "text": "Orrin S. Wood\n\nOrrin Squire Wood (December 14, 1817-June 22, 1909) (normally referred to as Orrin S. Wood) was one of early pioneers of the telegraph industry in the United States and Canada. \n\nThe brother-in-law of Ezra Cornell, who assisted Samuel Morse in the construction of the Baltimore-Washington telegraph line, Wood was recruited in August 1844 to be a telegraph operator on the line, and was Morse's first pupil. He was one of the founders of the Magnetic Telegraph Company with Cornell, Morse, and others, in 1845. He helped set up a telegraph exhibition in lower Manhattan in New York, and built a one-mile line for demonstration at the 1845 New York State Fair in Utica, New York. He also oversaw the building of the line between Albany, New York and Utica which opened in early 1846, the beginning of the rapid expansion of the telegraph in North America. He then opened the first commercial telegraph office in New York City in the fall of 1846. In 1847, he was recruited to be president of the newly formed Montreal Telegraph Company, which rapidly established lines to Toronto and, Quebec City, and then New York in August 1847. He remained with that company until 1866, and substantially retired following a few years additional work in the Wisconsin area. Duggan House, a mansion in Montreal now owned by McGill University, was built for Wood in 1861. \n\nWood was born in Sherburne, New York on December 14, 1817, and died in Turner, New York at age 91 on June 22, 1909. Having long outlined Morse, Alfred Vail, and Cornell, he was noted to be the \"oldest living telegrapher\" in his final years.\n"}
{"id": "5205930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5205930", "title": "Pete Bennett", "text": "Pete Bennett\n\nPeter Alexander Bennett (born 22 March 1982) is a British media personality, who won the seventh series of the Channel 4 (now Channel 5) reality television series \"Big Brother\" in 2006. He has Tourette syndrome.\n\nAfter unsuccessfully auditioning for the fifth series of \"Big Brother\" in 2004, Bennett was selected as one of the original 14 housemates for the seventh series in 2006. He was the bookies' favourite throughout the show and eventually won with 61.2% of the final vote.\n\nThe show was accused by some of exploiting Bennett's Tourette's syndrome. The Tourette Syndrome Association (TSA) initially expressed concern that others with the condition would be mocked, though they later softened their stance, a TSA spokesperson said: \"What it has done is put Tourette's on the map\". A Channel 4 spokesperson said \"Pete's attitude to his condition is a really positive one and that's helped to educate and inspire people [...] \"He's a very positive role model and he's been a great housemate.\"\n\nBennett was nominated for a National Television Award in 2006 for \"Most Popular TV Contender\"; however, this was awarded to fellow \"Big Brother\" contestant Nikki Grahame.\n\nBennett's autobiography, \"Pete: My Story\", was published in hardback in November 2006 and reissued in paperback in 2007 as \"My Journey With Tourettes\".\n\nBennett was lead singer in a band called Daddy Fantastic, but he left the band after agreeing with a record label that he should become a solo artist. He wrote music with songwriter and record producer Guy Chambers, but failed to gain commercial success with any releases. Bennett went on to form another band, Pete Bennett And The Love Dogs, which played at Glastonbury 2007 and venues such as IndigO2 (The O2) London and The Cavern Club in Liverpool.\n\nIn 2013, he guest starred on the web series GIFTED in the pilot episode.\n\nIn 2016 he set up a cleaning business called Celebriclean.\n\nMovies\nEditor\nSelf\nArchive Footage\n\n"}
{"id": "17025035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17025035", "title": "Peter H. Gregory", "text": "Peter H. Gregory\n\nPeter Hart Gregory, CISA, CISSP is an American information security advisor, computer security specialist, and writer. He is the author of several books on computer security and information technology.\n\nPeter Hart Gregory is a member of the Board of Advisors and lecturer for the NSA-certified University of Washington\nCertificate in Information Security and Risk Management, a member of the Board of Advisors for the University of Washington Certificate in Cloud Transition Strategies and Management, and on the Board of Advisors and the lead instructor (emeritus) for the University of Washington Certificate in Information Systems Security. He is a founding member of the Pacific CISO Forum.\n\nAs an InfraGard member, Gregory served as an expert witness in the 2006 cybercrime case, United States vs. Christopher Maxwell.\n\n\nGregory has written several articles for Computerworld and Software Magazine including:\n\nGregory has been interviewed by trade publications including Information Security Magazine, CIO Magazine, and Computerworld.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45085145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45085145", "title": "Peter Záboji", "text": "Peter Záboji\n\nPeter (Balazs) Záboji (25 December 1943 – 3 July 2015) was an angel investor and entrepreneur. Much of the Budapest's success as a startup hub has been credited to Peter B. Záboji and his European Entrepreneurship Foundation (EEF). He has contributed significantly to the development of start up businesses in Budapest and received the highest civil recognition from the president of Hungary.\n\nZáboji organized the first European Entrepreneurship Accelerator Program in 2006 as well as the first Seedcamp weekend in Hungary in 2012. He was the founder and president of European Entrepreneurship Foundation, which is the oldest business incubator in Eastern Europe.\n\nZáboji has lived and worked in Germany, France, the United States and the United Kingdom, as an executive manager in the telecom industry and a private equity investor. In 2008, he returned to Hungary, after setting up the European Entrepreneurship Foundation. He worked with and supported various entrepreneurship and angel networks throughout Europe. He was a frequent speaker at private equity and entrepreneurship conferences.\n\nZaboji and his family left Budapest in 1956, during Hungarian Revolution of 1956. He attended the European Gymnasium Burg Kastl in Bavaria. After his university studies in Leuven and Munich, he completed an MBA at INSEAD. He also holds a B.A. in Physics and Mathematics and a M.Sc. in Business (Diplom-Kaufmann) from Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich.\n\nZáboji started his career in IBM Germany with a job that he took in 1970. Later, he joined Siemens, and spent the next eighteen years working with the company in the US as well as Germany. In 1991, he was appointed as the managing director of GPT Communications in the UK. He co-founded Schoeller International in 1993, introducing a new packaging system which later became known as IFCO.\n\nIn 1997 Záboji was appointed managing director of o.tel.o, a German telecom start-up. Two years later, he founded the European Telco Exchange AG, which launched in 2000 and went for IPO in 2005. In early 2000 the private equity firm Kohlberg, Kravis, and Roberts made one of its first buyouts in Europe with Bosch Telekom. Záboji helped prepare the deal and was appointed CEO upon the acquisition. The company was turned around by Záboji, renamed Tenovis and later sold to Avaya. In early 2004, Záboji was a lead investor in acquiring European Mobile Telephone Services Germany. The company was renamed Bitronic and is today a consumer service company for computer and communication products\n\nHe was a member of the Board of the Budapest Festival Orchestra, chairman of Digital Factory, and a member of advisory Board of many organizations including Common Sense Society Budapest and White Bull, a forum of European entrepreneurs.\n\nIn 2003, upon resignation from active management he was invited by INSEAD to be one of the first three Entrepreneurs in Residence. A few months later he was appointed professor of entrepreneurship. He organized business venture competitions and represented the school as speaker at entrepreneurship and private equity conferences across Europe.\n\nIn 2009, Záboji initiated a pilot course on entrepreneurship at the St Ignatius College in Budapest. In the fall of that year he launched a program for US alumni at Ybl club. For more than 2 years, Záboji lectured on Entrepreneurship at CEU Business School, Budapest. In 2013, the Startup Accelerator Course Peter had designed originally for INSEAD was launched at ESSCA. He organized entrepreneurship workshops in Bratislava, Cluj, Prague and Sofia.\n\nDuring the first dot com revolution Záboji was approached by venture capital companies like Wellington Partners and offered board positions. In 1999, as chairman of ACG, he helped them make their debut at the Frankfurt’s Neue Markt. Since then, Záboji has been active as a business angel and sat on the boards of several new European ventures.\n\nIn 2005 he established the European Entrepreneurship Foundation (EEF) and launched the first business accelerator program in 2006 and INSEAD that helped several new ventures in launching. EEF, since 2009, provides several programs and events in the CEE capitals to promote entrepreneurship and build an ecosystem for business creation. He also helped build Europreneurs.org, an ecosystem for entrepreneurship and venture capital in Central and Eastern Europe.\n\nIn October 2013, Záboji was chosen by the National Innovation Office of Hungary as one of the four technology incubators whose mission will be to accelerate the growth of the local startup ecosystem by receiving a funding from the Hungarian state for 20 grants worth around 5,500,000 EUR in total.\n\nIn 2002, he authored the management book, “CHANGE! Shape today your company of tomorrow” (Moderne Industrie, 2002. In the book, he discussed about how he turned Bosch Telekom into Tenovis. Later in 2014, he published, Startup, Felnőtteknek! (Start up for Grown Ups) in Hungarian.\n\nZáboji moved back to Budapest in 2008 and spent the rest of his days in the CEE region with his wife and three children. He was fluent in English, German, French and Hungarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31206146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31206146", "title": "Plácido Benavides", "text": "Plácido Benavides\n\nPlácido Benavides (1810–1837) was an early Mexican-born settler in De Leon's Colony, Victoria County, Texas. Benavides earned himself the sobriquet of the Paul Revere of Texas for his 1836 journey from San Patricio to Goliad to Victoria, warning residents of the approaching Mexican army. He was twice elected alcalde of Victoria, Texas. He married into the powerful De León family, and with his wife Agustina became the father of three daughters. Benavides fought against the dictatorship of Antonio López de Santa Anna, but did not feel Texas should be separated from Mexico.\n\nHe led a unit of Tejano fighters at the Battle of Goliad ,and then he proceeded with his company to San Antonio, where they fought against Martín Perfecto de Cos in the Siege of Bexar. On February 11, 1836, Benavides sent a warning to James Bowie inside the Alamo that Santa Anna was approaching. Benavides escaped the Battle of Agua Dulce and was able to warn James Fannin headquartered in Goliad of the enemy army's approach, as he had warned all towns between Agua Dulce and Goliad. When the Texas Declaration of Independence was signed on March 2, 1836, James Fannin discharged Benavides from the army and sent him home. On his route back to Victoria, Benavides spread the alarm about the march of the Mexican army. In 1836, Benavides and his family were among the Mexicans evacuated out of Victoria by Brigadier General Thomas Jefferson Rusk. His family exiled to Louisiana, where he died of an unknown cause the next year. Texas Historical Marker number 6563 placed in 1936 at the SW Corner of S. Main and Juan Linn in Victoria, marks the site of the Benavides Round Top house.\n\nPlácido Benavides was born in 1810, in Reynosa, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Details of his youth are unknown, except that he was taken under the wing of his godfather Captain Henrique Villareal.\n\nIn 1828, Benavides moved to Victoria, Texas with his brothers Ysidro, Nicolás and Eugenio. He became secretary to Fernando De León, the eldest son of the influential De León family in Victoria County. There, Benavides was put in the position of overseeing land titles and general business transactions. He married into the De Leon family in 1831. The Mexican government authorized Benavides to continue recruiting colonists to De Leon's Colony after the 1833 death of empresario Martín De León.\n\nIn 1832 and 1834, Benavides was elected second alcalde of Victoria. Martín De León had held the position as the first alcalde, and Silvestre De León served as the third alcalde. Benavides built a house fortress with first-floor gun slits and reinforced door, that became known alternately as \"Plácido's Round House\" and the \"Round Top House\". Benavides and his brother-in-law Silvestre De León, led several attacks against the Tonkawa and Karankawa Indian tribes. After the death of Benavides, many lives were saved in 1840 by hiding in the round house during a raid by 600 Comanches. Recorded Texas Historic Landmark number 6563 placed in 1936 at the SW Corner of S. Main and Juan Linn in Victoria, marks the site of the Benavides Round Top house.\n\nWhen Antonio López de Santa Anna became President of Mexico on April 1, 1833, he revoked the 1824 Constitution of Mexico and replaced its Federalist form of government with a Centralist regime to further his military dictatorship. He appointed his brother-in-law Martín Perfecto de Cos as commandant-general northeast of Saltillo. Some in the De Leon extended family felt loyal to the Federalist government of the constitution.\n\nOn April 28, 1835, federal legislation in Mexico invalidated the Four Hundred League Law that had been passed by the Coahuila y Texas legislature. Benavides' brother-in-law José María Jesús Carbajal was an elected representative from Bexar to that legislature. General Martín Perfecto de Cos sent troops to shut down the legislature, and ordered the arrest of all who voted for the Four Hundred League Law. Colonel Domingo Ugartechea, as principal commandant of Coahuila y Texas, ordered Cabajal arrested, but soldiers searching for him in Victoria were unsuccessful in their attempts at doing so. Alcalde Benavides had refused to surrender Carbajal, and ordered his local militia to block the soldiers from entry into Victoria.\n\nAfter Gonzales, Texas repelled the Mexican attempted seizure of their cannon on October 2, 1835, Benavides teamed up with John Joseph Linn\nto capture General Cos. In Victoria, they joined with George M. Collinsworth and Benjamin Milam who were training men for the same purpose. During the Battle of Goliad, Benavides was put in charge of thirty Tejano volunteers, who were part of the October 1835 storming of Presidio La Bahía. Goliad was captured by Collinsworth and Milam on October 9, 1835.\n\nFollowing the capture of Goliad, Benavides and his men were ordered to join Stephen F. Austin in the two-month Siege of Béxar campaign to drive out General Cos. As part of the campaign, Benavides and his men joined with the James Bowie group in October 1835. In the process of searching for enemy horses, Benavides suggested to Bowie that they torture a simple Mexican herder into admitting he was hiding horses for the Mexican soldiers. The particular torture method used by Benavides and Bowie was to hang the herder by the neck until he almost choked to death, then let him down and threaten him with guns. After executing this method of torture three successive times on the man, the herder confessed and surrendered his herd to Bowie.\n\nJosé María Jesús Carbajal, his brother-in-law Fernando De León, and Peter Kerr, responded to an arms plea from Stephen F. Austin and began to run horses and mules to New Orleans in a trade for munitions. The trio were captured by Mexicans and taken prisoner. Kerr was set free, and Fernando De León bribed his way out. Carbajal was transferred to Matamoros, Tamaulipas, with an intended transfer for imprisonment at San Juan de Ulloa. In February 1836, Plácido Benavides was serving at San Patricio under Major Robert C. Morris. When word arrived of Carbajal's imprisonment, Benavides took a small group of men to break Carbajal out of incarceration. He bribed the guards at Matamoros. Although Mexicans gave pursuit, the escape back to Victoria was a success.\n\nThe alcalde of Matamoros had leaked to Benavides that Antonio López de Santa Anna planned to draw the Texas forces below the Rio Grande. Benavides reported the information to Major Morris, who in turn passed it along to James Fannin. Upon receipt of the information, Fannin decided against his planned invasion of Matamoros and instead moved his men to Goliad.\n\nInside the Alamo Mission in San Antonio, at 1 a.m. on February 11, 1836, messenger Blas María Herrera delivered to James Bowie a letter from Benavides, that stated Santa Anna was moving towards San Antonio with a large deployment of troops.\n\nOn February 27, 1836, while Benavides and James Grant were out with a detachment hunting wild mustangs, General José de Urrea captured San Patricio. On March 2, 1836, Benavides and Grant stumbled into a trap set by Urrera at Agua Dulce Creek, south of San Patricio. Benavides tried to rejoin the men but was ordered by Grant to save himself and warn Fannin of Urrea's approach. Upon reaching Fannin with the warning, and learning that the Texas Declaration of Independence had just been signed at Washington-on-the-Brazos, Benavides informed Fannin that he did not wish to help Texas to be torn from Mexico. Fannin discharged Benavides from the army and sent him home to Victoria. From San Patricio to his final destination of Victoria, Benavides warned every person and town along the way of Urrea's approach. Benavides became known as the Paul Revere of Texas.\n\nOn March 27, 1836, following the Battle of Coleto, Mexican soldiers under General José de Urrea gunned down 342 unarmed Texans. Isaac D. Hamilton, who had served with Benavides at Goliad, escaped and found refuge on a ranch owned by Benavides. Upon finding the wounded Hamilton, Benavides attempted to take Hamilton to safety. Encountering a Mexican unit, Benavides saved himself by claiming Hamilton was his prisoner. Hamilton was tortured and taken to Victoria to face a firing squad. He was rescued by \"The Angel of Goliad\", Francisca Alvarez. With the help of Alvarez, Hamilton escaped back to his hometown of Courtland, Alabama. Hamilton returned to Texas, and in 1858 the Texas legislature awarded him a bounty certificate for league of land, as part of the state's bounty grants for participants in the battle of the Alamo, the siege of Bexar, the Goliad campaigns. Hamilton died in 1859 before he was able to take possession of the land.\n\nDuring the Texas War of Independence many Mexicans were opposed to Santa Anna's regime, but felt loyal to Mexico and its 1824 constitution. Brigadier General Thomas Jefferson Rusk ordered the evacuation of Mexican families \"...who were likely to afford information to the enemy.\" The Carbajal, Benavides and De Leon families evacuated to New Orleans, leaving behind their wealth and everything they owned.\n\nIn 1831 Benavides married Agustina De León, daughter of empresario Martín De León and his wife Patricia de la Garza De León. The couple had three daughters, Pilar, Librada and Matiana.\n\nBenavides died in Opelousas, Louisiana in 1837, cause unknown.\n\nThe following are Anglicized spellings, named after Plácido Benavides:\n\n"}
{"id": "51202275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51202275", "title": "R. S. Manohar filmography", "text": "R. S. Manohar filmography\n\nThis is the filmography of former Indian veteran actor R. S. Manohar, who has acted in over 300 movies.\n"}
{"id": "50854205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50854205", "title": "Reinhold Hanning", "text": "Reinhold Hanning\n\nReinhold Hanning (28 December 1921 – 30 May 2017) was an SS guard at the Auschwitz concentration camp in occupied Poland. \n\nHanning volunteered for the Waffen SS at the age of 18 at the urging of his stepmother. During the Holocaust, he was an SS guard from early 1942 until June 1944. Nearly one million Jews and tens of thousands of other victims were murdered at the death camp. Hanning was one of the SS men who met Jewish prisoners as they arrived at the camp in Holocaust trains and escorted them to the gas chambers.\n\nIn 2016, Hanning was convicted in a Detmold court as an accessory to 170,000 murders, following a trial in which Holocaust survivors testified against him. He apologized for participation in Holocaust atrocities. He died a year later. \n\nHanning grew up in Lippe where he attended elementary school. He then worked in a factory. At the age of 14 he joined the Hitler Youth. Five years later he volunteered for the Waffen-SS. Following the onset of World War II, Hanning served with the 2nd SS Panzer Division Das Reich. On 25 July 1940 he joined the \"SS-Totenkopfverbände\" and in January 1942 was sent to Auschwitz death camp. He fought in several battles in the war before being hit by grenade splinters in his head and leg during close combat in Kiev in 1941. \n\nFollowing the injury, his commander decided he was no longer fit for front-line duty and assigned him to Auschwitz. \n\nIn September 1943 he was promoted to \"Unterscharführer\" while at Auschwitz II Birkenau. In June 1944, he was transferred to Sachsenhausen concentration camp. Hanning became a prisoner of war in May 1945. He was released on 20 May 1948. For a short time he worked as a cook for the British forces in Lage (Lippe) and then as a truck driver for a dairy company and as a salesman. In 1964 he went into business for himself, and retired in 1984. \nHanning was one of some 30 former Auschwitz guards investigated in 2013 by the German federal prosecutors from special office in Ludwigsburg with the recommendation that they pursue charges after the major war crimes policy review. Until 2009, prosecutors were required to prove that an accused Nazi was responsible for killing a victim in order to obtain a conviction. In the trial of John Demjanjuk, the defendant was found guilty even though he didn't directly kill any of his victims, and was convicted of being an accessory to murders.\n\nIn 2016, Hanning was convicted in a court in Detmold, Germany, of 170,000 counts of being an accessory to murder. Several Holocaust survivors testified against him. \n\nIn court, Hanning said, \"People were shot, gassed and burned. I could see how corpses were taken back and forth or moved out. I could smell the burning bodies.\" During the trial, Hanning apologized for doing nothing to prevent the Holocaust atrocities he witnessed at Auschwitz saying \"I am ashamed that I saw injustice and never did anything about it, and I apologize for my actions,” but denied the charges. \n\nHanning was sentenced to five years in prison. Hanning never served time as he died while appeals to the Federal Court of Justice were pending. He died in Lage, North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2772513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772513", "title": "Rex Geveden", "text": "Rex Geveden\n\nRex Geveden (born 1962 in Mayfield, Kentucky) is the president and chief executive officer of BWX Technologies. Previously he was chief operating officer. \n\nPrior to his tenure with BWXT, Geveden was executive vice president of Teledyne Technologies Inc and president of Teledyne Dalsa in Waterloo, Ontario. Previously he was the president of Teledyne Brown Engineering and the associate administrator of NASA before that. He was selected for that position by NASA chief Michael Griffin on August 17, 2005, after having served in an acting capacity since June of that year. Griffin created the position immediately prior to assigning Geveden to fill it. The associate administrator's task is described as \"oversight for all the agency's technical missions' areas and field center operations\". Griffin also suggested Geveden was his right-hand man, saying \"...if you get a decision from Rex, it's the agency's decision.\"\n\nGeveden's first job out of college was at Teledyne Brown Engineering (where he later became president). After a few years at Teledyne Brown, Geveden joined NASA in 1990, and worked on hardware design for a number of science satellite missions, including as project manager for the Optical Transient Detector satellite, the Lightning Imaging Sensor satellite, and the Gravity Probe B satellite, a successful test of frame dragging effects predicted by General Relativity. He was promoted to deputy director of the science directorate at Marshall Space Flight Center, then in 2003 to deputy director of Marshall Space Flight Center. In November 2004, he was promoted again to become chief engineer of NASA, simultaneously with a major expansion of that office's responsibilities, in the wake of the report of the Columbia Accident Investigation Board. Only seven months later, in the first weeks of Mike Griffin's administration in June 2005, Griffin made Geveden his acting associate administrator until the post was officially created.\n\nGeveden is a native of Mayfield, Kentucky, and a graduate of Lowes High School. He is married to Gail Geveden, and they have two children, Bridget and Jake. He received a bachelor's degree in engineering physics and master's degrees in physics in 1983 and 1984 respectively, both from Murray State University in Kentucky. Geveden also graduated from the Program Management School at the Defense Systems Management College.\n\nGeveden announced his plans to leave NASA at the end of July 2007 to become president of Teledyne Brown Engineering in Huntsville, Alabama. Mike Griffin praised Geveden on his departure saying he \"possesses one of the most agile minds I have encountered\". Geveden was replaced as Associate Administrator of NASA by Christopher Scolese. In 2014, Teledyne announced the promotion of Geveden to president of Teledyne Dalsa following the retirement of DALSA's CEO, in addition to his role as executive vice president of Teledyne Technologies.\n"}
{"id": "1474360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474360", "title": "Rheal Cormier", "text": "Rheal Cormier\n\nRhéal Paul Cormier (born April 23, 1967) is a Canadian former Major League Baseball pitcher.\n\nHe attended Community College of Rhode Island in Warwick, Rhode Island, and was drafted by the St. Louis Cardinals in the sixth round of the 1988 amateur draft. Cormier is of Acadian ancestry.\n\nBefore playing professional ball Rhéal was a lumberjack.\nCormier made his major league debut on August 15, 1991. He started the St. Louis Cardinals' game against the New York Mets, going six innings, giving up one earned run, and striking out two. He pitched for St. Louis through 1994 and was traded to Boston for the 1995 season. In Boston, Cormier split time as a starter and a reliever. His 1995 ERA was 4.07.\n\nFollowing the 1995 season, Cormier was traded to Montreal as part of the Wil Cordero deal. He spent all of 1996 and one game in 1997 for the Expos. In 1998, he signed as a free agent with the Cleveland Indians and began the year in the minor leagues before shoulder problems ended his season.\n\nIn 1999, Cormier signed a free agent deal to return to Boston. In two seasons, he made 124 appearances for the Red Sox, all of which came in relief. After the 2000 season, the Philadelphia Phillies signed the reliever as a free agent. In the next six seasons with the Phillies (his longest tenure with any major league team), Cormier had his most successful years. In 2003, he posted in 84.2 innings a career-best ERA of 1.70. In 2004, he made 84 appearances, a career high. On July 31, 2006, Cormier was traded from the Philadelphia Phillies to the Cincinnati Reds for pitching prospect Justin Germano. The Reds, leading the National League wildcard race at the time of the trade, sought bullpen help through the trade. The team failed to make the playoffs, however, finishing the season 8 games back in the wildcard race. Cormier's 2006 season with the Reds included 21 appearances and a 4.50 ERA.\n\nOn April 28, 2007, Cormier was designated for assignment by the Reds after a poor start to the 2007 campaign. He had 3 IP, a 9.00 ERA, and 1 strikeout in his time with Cincinnati that season. On May 13, 2007, the Atlanta Braves signed Cormier to a minor league contract and assigned him to their AAA-affiliate, the Richmond Braves. He played only briefly for them before deciding to retire.\n\nIn 2008, he joined the Moncton Mets, a senior team based in Moncton, New Brunswick, in an attempt to make a comeback and join the Canadian Olympic Team participating in the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. Cormier had pitched for Moncton 21 years earlier, prior to his major league career.\n\nPrior to the 2006 season, Cormier played for the Canada national baseball team in the World Baseball Classic. Despite winning two of three games, the team failed to advance beyond the first round. While their record matched Team USA and Team Mexico, they were eliminated in the tie breaker because they allowed the most runs. Cormier appeared in two of the games (Mexico and South Africa), pitching 1 innings, giving up 1 hit, and allowing no earned runs.\n\nAfter representing Canada at the 1987 Pan American Games, Cormier played for the Canadian national baseball team in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea; at the time baseball was a demonstration sport. The Canadian team did not win a medal during this competition, ending with a 1–2 record. The squad's lone win, however, did come against the eventual gold medal-winning American team.\n\nIn 2008 Cormier played for the Canadian national baseball team in the 2008 Summer Olympics. At age 41, Cormier was the oldest baseball player in the competition.\n\nIn 2012 Cormier was inducted into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "31870609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31870609", "title": "Robert Reidt", "text": "Robert Reidt\n\nRobert Reidt (June 25, 1892 – March 1966) was a German-born American who is best known for promoting a prediction that the world would end on February 6, 1925.\n\nReidt was a house painter living in Long Island, New York, and heard about Californian Margaret Rowen's claim that the day of judgment was coming on February 6, 1925. Calling himself the \"Apostle of Doom\", he sold all his assets to spread word of the coming event. After nothing happened at the appointed hour outside his small rented abode in East Patchogue, he later blamed photo flashbulbs for obscuring a supposedly visible sign in the skies. He then suggested the end was coming in the following week. The events received regular front-page coverage in \"The New York Times\" and nationwide news coverage.\n\nIn February 1926, Reidt made a new prediction that a fireball would soon strike New York City. This event also failed to occur.\n\nHe made yet another unsuccessful prediction of doom in 1932.\n\nThe last contemporary press coverage that Reidt received was in 1938, in connection with a planetarium trying to publicize a show about end of the world predictions. Reidt died at age 73 in March 1966 in Florida.\n\nIn May 2011, Reidt's predictions received new coverage when they were reviewed by Andy Newman of \"The New York Times\" in connection with Harold Camping's prediction that Judgment Day would fall on May 21, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "24700176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24700176", "title": "Shunhe Hui District", "text": "Shunhe Hui District\n\nShunhe Hui District () is a district of the city of Kaifeng, Henan province, China.\n"}
{"id": "30355357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30355357", "title": "The missing 54", "text": "The missing 54\n\nThe Missing 54 are the soldiers and officers of Indian armed forces who have been given status of missing in action or killed in action in 1971 Indo-Pak war by government. But they are believed to be alive and imprisoned in various Pakistani jails. Though Pakistan have denied existence of any Indian POW's of 1971 Indo-Pak war; there is strong evidence to suggest that they were captured alive and some or all of them still languish in Pakistani jails. The list of names of these soldiers/officers and their respective service units are as follows.\n\n1. Major SPS Waraich IC-12712 15 Punjab (It is reported that he was killed by a burst of gunfire shortly after being taken prisoner.)\n\n2. Major Kanwaljit Singh Sandhu IC-14590 15 Punjab\n\n3. 2/Lt Sudhir Mohan Sabharwal SS-23957 87 Lt Regiment\n\n4. Capt Ravinder Kaura SS-20095 39 Med Regiment\n\n5. Capt Giri Raj Singh IC-23283 5 Assam\n\n6. Capt Om Prakash Dalal SS-22536 Grenadiers\n\n7. Maj suraj singh IC-18790 15 Rajput\n\n8. Maj AK Suri SS-19807 5 Assam\n\n9. Capt Kalyan Singh Rathod IC-28148 5 Assam\n\n10. Major Jaskiran Singh Malik IC-14457 8 Raj. Rifles\n\n11. Major SC Guleri IC-20230 9 Jat\n\n12. Lt Vijay Kumar Azad IC-58589 1/9 G Rg\n\n13. Capt Kamal Bakshi IC-19294 5 Sikh\n\n14. 2/ Lt Paras Ram Sharma SS-22490 5/8 G R\n\n15. Capt Vashisht Nath\n\n16. L/Hv. Krishna Lal Sharma 13719585 1 JAK RIF\n\n17. Subedar Assa Singh JC-41339 5 Sikh\n\n18. Subedar Kalidas JC-59 8 JAKLI\n\n19. L/Nk Jagdish Raj 9208735 Mahar Regiment\n\n20. L/Nk Hazoora Singh 682211303\n\n21. Gunner Sujan Singh 1146819 14 Fd Regiment\n\n22. Sepoy Daler Singh 2461830 15 Punjab\n\n23. Gnr Pal Singh 1239603 181 Lt Regiment\n\n24. Sepoy Jagir Singh 2459087 16 Punjab\n\n25. Gnr Madan Mohan 1157419 94 Mountain Regiment\n\n26. Gnr Gyan Chand Gnr Shyam Singh\n\n27. L/Nk Balbir Singh S B S Chauhan\n\n28. Capt DS jamwal 81 Field Regiment\n\n29. Capt Washisht Nath Attock\n\n30. Sq Ldr Mohinder Kumar Jain 5327-F(P) 27 Sqn\n\n31. Flt Lt Sudhir Kumar Goswami 8956-F(P) 5 Sqn\n\n32. Flying Officer Sudhir Tyagi 10871-F(P) 27 Sqn\n\n33. Flt Lt Vijay Vasant Tambay 7662 –F(P) 32 Sqn\n\n34. Flt Lt Nagaswami Shanker 9773-F(P) 32 Sqn\n\n35. Flt Lt Ram Metharam Advani 7812-F(P) JBCU\n\n36. Flt Lt Manohar Purohit 10249(N) 5 Sqn\n\n37. Flt Lt Tanmaya Singh Dandoss 8160-F(P) 26 Sqn\n\n38. Wg Cdr Hersern Singh Gill 4657-F(P) 47 Sqn\n\n39. Flt Lt Babul Guha 5105-F(P)\n\n40. Flt Lt Suresh Chander Sandal 8659-F(P) 35 Sqn\n\n41. Sqn. Ldr. Jal Manikshaw Mistry 5006-F(P)\n\n42. Flt Lt Harvinder Singh 9441-F(P) 222 Sqn\n\n43. Sqn Ldr Jatinder Das Kumar 4896-F(P) 3 Sqn\n\n44. Flt Lt LM Sassoon 7419-F(P) JBCU\n\n45. Flt Lt Kushalpal Singh Nanda 7819-F(N) 35 Sqn\n\n46. Flg Offr. Krishan L Malkani 10576-F(P) 27 Sqn\n\n47. Flt Lt Ashok Balwant Dhavale 9030-F(P) 1 Sqn\n\n48. Flt Lt Shrikant C Mahajan 10239-F(P) 5 Sqn\n\n49. Flt Lt Gurdev Singh Rai 9015-F(P) 27 Sqn\n\n50. Flt Lt Ramesh G Kadam 8404-F(P) TACDE\n\n51. Flg Offr. KP Murlidharan 10575-F(P) 20 Sqn\n\n52. Naval Pilot Lt. Cdr Ashok Roy\n\n53. Sqn Ldr Devaprasad Chatterjee\n\n54. Plt Offr Tejinder Singh Sethi\n\nMissing 55 - Flt Lt Pradeep Vinayak Apte\n\n\"(This list was tabled in the Lok Sabha in 1979 by Samarendra Kundu, Minister of State of External Affairs, in reply to unstarred question 6803 raised by Amarsingh Pathawa.)\n\"Note - Initial list consisted of 40 names which later on expanded to 54.\"\n\n\"If the cause be just and mind be strong,\nNo force is great, No distance long,\nIf selfless souls with such a strength,\nFace hazards all, they win at length.\"\nTHIS is a diary noting in Dr R.S. Suri's diary, father of Major Ashok Suri, captured in the 1971 war. The Army had declared Major Suri as \"Killed in action\". DR Suri who ran a Yoga Ashram in New Delhi did not believe it. He was sent a helmet with a bullet hole in it and someone else's name written on it. \nDuring the war, the fifth battalion of the Assam Regiment was deployed as part of 191 Infantry Brigade on the west of Munnawar Tawi River in Chambb sector. 10 Infantry Division on the Indian side faced 23 Division on the Pakistani side. 5 Sikh were at Chhamb and were in the middle of the brigade group with 5 Assam and 4/1 Gorkha Rifles on either side. Throughout 4 December Pakistani artillery and PAF were very active in the areas of 5 Sikh and 5 Assam. On Dec 4th Pakistani infantry supported by armour captured Mandiala North after bitter hand-to-hand fighting. On 5 December, 2 tanks of Deccan Horse and a platoon of 5 Sikh recaptured the MandialaBridge. The battle raged on through the day and night of 5 December. These three battalions were subjected to intense shelling and repeated PAF attacks. During this battle, Maj Ashok Suri went missing.\nThen on December 26, 1974, R.S. Suri received a hand-written note dated December 7, 1974 from his son. The letter contained a slip in which his son had written, \"I am okay here.\" The covering note read, \"Sahib, valaikumsalam, I cannot meet you in person. Your son is alive and he is in Pakistan. I could only bring his slip, which I am sending you. Now going back to Pak.\" Signed M. Abdul Hamid.\nIn August, 1975, he received another missive postmark dated 'June 14/15/16, 1975, Karachi.' The letter said, \"Dear Daddy, Ashok touches thy feet to get your benediction. I am quite ok here. Please try to contact the Indian Army or Government of India about us. We are 20 officers here. Don't worry about me. Pay my regards to everybody at home, specially to mummy, grandfather – Indian government can contact Pakistan government for our freedom.\" The then Defence Secretary had the handwriting confirmed as Ashok's and changed the official statement from \"killed in action\" to \"missing in action\"!\nWhen one gets one's son's letter from a prison in Pakistan, what does one do? Well, R.S. Suri spent the rest of his life making weekly trips to the Ministry of External Affairs where everyone got to know him well. He worked with the government, careful not to involve the media because MEA officials advised him that the missing servicemen were in danger of being killed if they did so. He along with other Delhi-based families formed the Missing Defence Personnel Relative's organization. He used to write to family members based in other parts of the country updating them on what all had transpired. He wrote regularly to the Prime Minister and received regular replies. The overriding concern was that the issue should be taken up whenever the two sides met as a matter of urgency.\nIn a letter on Jul 15th, 1980, Dr Suri writes from the Delhi Based Next of Kin to the Honourable Minister of External Affairs of Pakistan, Mr Agha Shahi. Talking of the Missing men and welcoming Pakistan's gesture to search for these men, \"…….. You will appreciate that the family members have undergone enough agony and misery and some have become mental as well as physical wrecks. The suspense for them is unbearable. ….settle this issue on humanitarian grounds.\" \nIn 1983, after what seemed like a breakthrough, the Pakistan government invited family members to Pakistan to identify, if found, its missing defence personnel. This happened after November, 1982 when India and Pakistan signed a protocol on exchange of prisoners when Zia Ul Haque visited India.\nOn May 30, 1983 – Narasimha Rao said that he would take up at the highest level the visit of the parents of missing defence personnel to Pakistan, since India had allowed the visit of some Pakistani family members to India in 1972. Dr.Suri on behalf of the missing defence families, was assured that Rao would try to facilitate this visit.\nA delegation of six next-of-kin were allowed to go. It was made very clear that this was a classified visit that the press should not get wind of. There was a feeling of some deal having been done. The families were told to \" Get the men back. They may not be in good health but you can nurse them back to health.\"\nThe families left on September 12, 1983, Monday for Lahore. This was the first time the Indians had got consular access after 1971. The families got to know that some officials of the MEA will also be going with them toMultan jail. Indira Gandhi in India was meanwhile making aggressive statements in favour of Khan Abdul Gafar Khan & the MQM movement which was irritating Pak. On Sept 14th they flew to Multan. There was a sense of enthusiasm. That day India was supposed to grant Pak officials reciprocal access to 25 Pakistani prisoners at Patiala jail which did not happen. The news came in Pakistani papers that \"India goes back on its words\".\n\nOn Sept 15, 1983, the families visited Multan jail. Dr.Suri was getting hysterical, laughing and crying at the same time. The Pakistani newspaper report of India going back on its word in showing 25 prisoners in Patialajail was at the back of his mind at that time. However, they still clung to the promise and hope that the Indian Govt. had given them.\n. The jail official who was present commented when Mrs.Tambay was signing her name remarked \"Sorry Mrs.Tambay, Tambay is not here.\" They did not find any of the people they were looking for there. 200 odd prisoners were being offered repatriation by Pakistan, subject to verification during the consular access. The families including Dr Suri wondered when Pakistan had already offered to repatriate these people where was the need for the visit?\nThe family members sat through the consular access process for about 6 people, after which they were asked to go out as their part was done. The jail officials told them that only Zia ul Huq could help us with this category of prisoners.\nEven after the visit, disheartening though it had been, did not dampen Dr Suri's commitment. He believed the government was doing all it could to get the men back. He never gave up hope. Finally, though his body gave up and he died in 1999 saying, \"Perhaps I will finally find peace in the grave.\"\n\nAs per the Geneva Conventions, \"Parties to the conflict shall communicate to each other the names of any prisoners of war who are detained till the end of proceedings or until punishment has been completed. By agreement between the parties to the conflict, commissions shall be established for the purpose of searching for dispersed prisoners of war and assuring their repatriation with the least possible delay.\"\n\nOn the Eastern front where there were 93,007 POWs (of which 72795 were soldiers), an agreement was signed by the Foreign Ministers of India, Bangladesh and Pakistan on 30 April 1974 at New Delhi. Thereafter the Pakistani POWs captured on the Eastern front were also repatriated.\n\nSOME OF THE MAIN EVIDENCES\n\nFlight Lt. V.V. Tambay ( the following is often cited as evidence- however if you note, the paper report ison 5th dec. Tambay went missing on 6th dec. SO the newspaper report is wrong.)\nMaj Ghosh's photograph published in Time Magazine \nMaj AK Ghosh's photograph was published in Time Magazine dated 27-12-1971\nThe photograph is proof that Maj AK Ghosh was in Pakistani custody when the war ended on 17 December 1971. He did not return with the POWs in 1972 at the time of the Simla agreement. He may have died in the interim period in a Pakistani jail. Surely there must be some record of that. The Indian and Pakistan governments can work together to find out what happened to such men. Why were some names not included in the POW list is again a moot point. \nA brief note from Maj Ashok Suri followed by another letter in 1975\nOn 26 December 1974, R S Suri received a hand written note dated 07-12-1974 the words \" I am okay here: scribbled on a tiny scrap of paper from Ashok Suri. His father also received letters from a Karachi jail on August 13th 1975 dated June 14/15/16th 1975 stating that there were 20 other officers with him there. The handwriting was authenticated by the Indian government and Indian Ministry of External Affairs officials on many occasions expressed to Dr RS Suri that they believed Ashok Suri was there. \nWhy would someone come and send the note to Maj Suri's distraught father if there was no basis for it. What purpose would it serve? \nMohanlal Bhaskar repatriated on 09.12.1974- writes \"Main Bharat ka jasoos tha\" or \" I spied for India\" \nMohanlal Bhaskar, who was in a jail between 1968 and 1974 and repatriated on 09.12.1974 wrote a book in Hindi ( I was a spy for India) and gave a signed affidavit stating that he met a Col Asif Shafi of Second Punjab regt of Pakistan and a Maj Ayaaz Ahmed Sipra in Fort of Attock imprisoned for conspiring against Bhutto in the infamous \"Attock conspiracy\" . The Pakistani Major Ayaaz Ahmed Sipra spoke of his befriending a Gill of the Indian Air Force and a Captain Singh of the Indian Army as well as mentioning that there were around 40 Pows of the 1965 and 1971 wars in that jail who had no chances of release. \nIn the Attock Conspiracy, several officers of Pakistan's army and air force were arrested on March 30, 1973, on charges of conspiring to overthrow the government of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto. The detainees included Major Farooq Adam, Major Nadir Pervez (who later became a federal minister in the Nawaz Sharif government), Brigadier Wajid Ali Shah, Colonel Hamdani, and Major Ayaz Sipra, and a total of 59 officers were declared conspirators. The case is well known as the Attock conspiracy. Fifteen army and four air-force officers were found guilty of conspiracy and were handed jail terms ranging from three months to life.\n\nIn this conspiracy, 15 officers were sentenced to terms in prison- among them Maj Ayaaz Ahmed Sipra and Col Asif Shafi. Others such as Farooq Adam ( a Gallian, i.e. from Lawrence school, Ghoraghali) were also sentenced in the Attock conspiracy .\n\nAyaaz Ahmed and Shafi later apparently moved to the US where Shafi was again traced by Manish Jain ( son in law of Sqn Ldr Jain, another Indian Officer missing and believed to be in Pakistani jails since the 1971 war) and Shafi confirmed to Jain unofficially that he had met Wg Cdr Gill in Attock in 2000 in a telephonic conversation.\n\nA Pakistani General, General Riaz, Governor NWFP who subsequently died in an accident informed Mr Ashwini Kumar, then IG of the Border Security Force as a personal favour to him at the Munich Olympics in 1972 that Major Waraich was being held in Dargai jail, NWFP. \nThe earlier sightings in 1972, 1975 seem true even if later sightings may have been mistakes. This is because at that time noone knew of the case of Missing defence personnel. Mohan Lal Bhaskar had no knowledge that some Indian Officers were kept back in Pakistan when he returned and wrote his book. In those days there was no internet or even widespread television. That is why the movement to trace the Indian POWs has remained so strong.\nLETTER FROM ASHOK SURI TO HIS FATHER IN 1975\n\n"}
{"id": "45446503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45446503", "title": "Theft prevention officer", "text": "Theft prevention officer\n\nA theft prevention agent is a security officer who participates in a working surveillance in public buildings whose core business is the sale in order to prevent theft, attacks and malicious acts. Its activity is exercised within the institution. He has a mission to control the level of access the store and POS terminals, as well as preventive monitoring mission flights it performs at the sales floor.\n\nIn France, it may proceed with the arrest of alleged offenders in accordance with Article 73 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,He immediately report its findings to the management of the institution and prepares a report on its operations.\n"}
{"id": "10384832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10384832", "title": "Vakha Arsanov", "text": "Vakha Arsanov\n\nVakha Arsanov (Russian: Ваха Арсанов; 1950–2005) was a vice president in the Aslan Maskhadov government of the Chechen Republic of Ichkeria.\n\nVakha Arsanov was born in 1950 in the Dagestan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. He worked as a Soviet traffic police captain.\n\nIn 1991, Arsanov supported Dzhokar Dudayev's National Congress of Chechen People and became a deputy in Dudayev's parliament. During the First Chechen War, Arsanov became a military commander for the Chechen separatist forces, reaching the rank of Divisional General. He took part in the Battle of Dolinskoye, the Battle of Grozny, and others. After the Chechens retook Grozny in August 1996, Arsanov declared that \"Russia does have a strong army, but they weaken themselves... The Chechens have morale and a spirit... We know what we are fighting for and what we are dying for. The Russians just want to go home to mother or to their beloved girl. They don't need this war.\"\n\nAfter the war, in January 1997, he ran on the same ticket as the separatist forces' chief of staff Aslan Maskhadov. The two won Chechnya's presidential election, garnering almost 300,000 votes.\n\nIn February 1997, \"a remote-controlled bomb blast damaged two cars\" in Arsanov's motorcade in central Grozny; his press spokesman claimed the attack was \"'a carefully planned operation by the Russian secret services,' designed to destabilize Chechnya by provoking conflict between supporters of [Maskhadov] and Zelimkhan Yandarbiev, the outgoing acting president.\" In April, Russian Interior Minister Anatoly Kulikov announced the arrests of two Chechen women suspected of involvement in the 1995 Budyonnovsk hospital hostage crisis and the April 28 bombing of Pyatigorsk that killed two. Arsanov denied a Chechen connection to the bombings in Pyatigorsk and Armavir, instead accusing the Russian secret services of organizing the Pyatigorsk bombing in order to \"sabotage the peace process. He also suggested \"that ongoing peace talks with Russia should be suspended until Kulikov apologized.\" However, Chechen First Deputy Prime Minister Movladi Udugov stated that peace talks would continue. In May, Russian leaders formally apologized for the incident in which Russian fighter aircraft intercepted Arsanov's plane shortly after it took off from Grozny to the Netherlands. In September, Arsanov threatened to \"execute\" Russian Cabinet leaders for their \"genocide\" during the war and said to \"spit\" on Russia; the Russian government demanded that Arsanov retract his \"insulting statements\" and apologize, but he did not. In November, Arsanov served as the acting president while Maskhadov was on vacation.\n\nIn July 1998, together with Shamil Basayev, Arsanov saved the \"Wahhabi\" forces aided by renegade former generals Arbi Barayev and Abdul-Malik Mezhidov from total destruction during the confrontation with the Maskhadov's government forces in Gudermes. In an August 1998 televised conference, Arsanov said that by attacking Afghanistan and Sudan, the United States had launched an \"undeclared World War III\" and ordered a global attack against the Americans; he said that Bill Clinton \"had been put on the 'wanted list' for his crimes against the Islamic people and would be tried according to Shariah laws\". In December, Arsanov defected to the opposition, which was agitating for a new Islamist state constitution.\n\nArsanov was accused of corruption and involvement in criminal activity, including kidnappings of foreigners and connections with the Chechen mafia in Moscow. In February 1999, Arsanov was sacked when a presidential decree abolished his post, but he said he would not leave office unless President Maskhadov also stepped down. He said the republic's top Islamic body, the Shura, should be allowed to select a new national leadership to transform Chechnya into an Islamic state.\n\nAfter the Second Chechen War broke out in 1999, Arsanov announced in October that the State Defense Council \"had decided to forbid Chechen leaders from conducting negotiations or getting in touch with Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin\". He also demanded that the Chechens would only meet with the Russians \"on neutral ground\"; that an international organization would supervise and implement a Russian-Chechen agreement; and that Russian forces would withdraw from Chechnya. In October, Arsanov \"ruled out holding political negotiations with Russia, saying that Chechnya expects Europe and the United States to pressure Russia into ending the military operation.\" In February 2000, Arsanov, together with Basayev, were reported to have announced the start of \"total military actions on the whole of Russian territory.\" He soon disappeared in Georgia, where he was treated for an injury, appearing publicly in the presence of President of Georgia Eduard Shevardnadze, and later reportedly moved to Nazran in Ingushetia. He resurfaced in 2001 to call Chechen resistance against Russia \"pointless,\" and Mashkhadov fired him, saying, \"“He could have fallen into the hands of the Federals at any time and they could’ve forced him to take part in the negotiations.\"\n\nIn February 2003, the AFP reported that Arsanov issued a video call to the Chechen resistance to put stop attacks on pro-Moscow Chechen militias. According to Russian media reports, he became close with Akhmad Kadyrov, the pro-Moscow head of the republic, who asked the federal center for an amnesty for Arsanov; other sources state that he and Isa Munayev remained the last commanders still fully loyal to Maskhadov. According to the \"Kommersant\" report, Arsanov was detained by the Chechen OMON, led by the former separatist commander Artur Akhmadov. In February 2005, the separatists protested the alleged arrest and detention of Arsanov by the Russians.\n\nOn May 15, 2005, Russia announced that during a raid in the village of Ivanovo, a suburb of Grozny, pro-Russian police and militia forces killed four militants, including Arsanov. The death was shrouded in mystery; the bodies were reported to be burned too badly to be identified, and separatists alleged that Arsanov was actually in Russian custody at the time. According to some reports, Arsanov was held in Ramzan Kadyrov's private prison in Tsentoroi and unsuccessfully tortured there in an attempt to make him cooperate with the young Kadyrov against Maskhadov. \"The Moscow Times\" also reported that Arsanov was being tortured at an unofficial prison run by Kadyrov in February.\n\n"}
{"id": "305561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305561", "title": "Varg Vikernes", "text": "Varg Vikernes\n\nVarg Vikernes (), is a Norwegian musician, writer, and blogger. In 1991, he founded the one-man music project Burzum, which is considered one of the most influential black metal acts. Three years later, he was convicted of murder and arson, and subsequently served 14 years in prison.\n\nA native of Bergen, Vikernes spent part of his childhood in Iraq. Interested in music from a young age, he began playing guitar at the age of 14 and formed his first band, Kalashnikov, within the next two years. He soon became part of the early Norwegian black metal scene. In 1992, he and other members of the scene were accused of burning down at least three Christian churches in Norway. By early 1993, he had recorded four albums as Burzum and another with fellow black metal band Mayhem.\n\nIn August 1993, Vikernes was arrested and charged with the murder of Mayhem guitarist Øystein \"Euronymous\" Aarseth. In May 1994, he was found guilty of murder and the earlier church arsons, and sentenced to 21 years in prison. Vikernes maintains that he killed Aarseth in self-defense and denies responsibility for the church arsons, though he supported them. During his time in prison, Vikernes became affiliated with the Norwegian Heathen Front, had several writings on Germanic paganism published and recorded and released two ambient albums as Burzum. Having served 14 years of his sentence, Vikernes was released on parole in early 2009. He changed his legal name to Louis Cachet to avoid difficulties with the public in Norway. He still goes by Varg Vikernes in daily life.\n\nAfter his release from prison, Vikernes settled with his wife and children in France, where he continued releasing music and writing. He recorded six more albums before announcing the end of Burzum in 2018. He began his blog and YouTube channel, titled Thulean Perspective, in 2013. Through his self-published writings and videos, he promotes an ideology he calls \"Odalism\" based on a Blood and Soil–derived form of nationalism and the re-adoption of native European values and belief systems, such as elements of traditional paganism. He also advocates environmentalism, permaculture, and survivalism.\n\nVikernes does not have a published biography (authorised or unauthorised), but information can be gathered from interviews he has given and from statements he has made on burzum.org, at thuleanperspective.com, and on his YouTube channel. Michael Moynihan, one of the authors of \"Lords of Chaos\"—where much of the information about Vikernes is found, has been described as \"quite active in the propaganda support network for Vikernes\".\n\nIn the interviews printed in \"Lords of Chaos\", Vikernes discusses his background and childhood. \"Lords of Chaos\" also includes an interview with his mother, Helene Bore (the book and a newspaper depicted there refer to her with the given name Lene, whereas Vikernes' own website uses the name Helene). In a 2004 interview, Vikernes mentions his mother \"is working in a large oil company\". He also states that his father is an \"electronics engineer,\" whereas his brother, who (according to the \"Lords of Chaos\" interview) is one and a half years older, is a \"graduate civil engineer\".\n\nIn the \"Lords of Chaos\" interview, Vikernes recalls that when he was 6 years old, the family moved for about a year to Baghdad, Iraq, because Vikernes' \"father was working for Saddam Hussein\" developing a computer program. Since there were no places available in the English school in Baghdad, the young Vikernes went to an Iraqi elementary school during this time. According to his interview, Vikernes here became \"aware of racial matters\". Corporal punishment was not uncommon in the school, and on one occasion, Vikernes had a \"quarrel\" with a teacher and called him \"a monkey\". But as Vikernes perceived it the teachers \"didn't dare to hit me because I was white\". Vikernes' mother also recalls how they \"spent a year in Iraq\" and that \"the other children in his class would get slapped by their teachers; he would not\". She mentions that this created problems, but generally she \"has no good explanation\" of how Varg developed his views.\n\nWhen asked about his father, Vikernes states that he \"had a swastika flag at home.\" However, Vikernes feels that his father was a hypocrite because he was worried about Vikernes \"being a Nazi\", whereas he too was \"pissed about all the colored people he saw in town\". About his mother, Vikernes states that she was \"very race conscious\", in the sense that she was afraid that Vikernes \"was going to come home with a black girl!\" At the time of the 1995 \"Lords of Chaos\" interview, Vikernes still had a positive relationship with his mother but \"very little contact\" with his father. He also stated that his parents are divorced; Vikernes' father is said to have \"left about 10 years ago\", which would have been 1985, when Vikernes was 11 or 12.\n\nThere are claims that Vikernes was involved with a skinhead scene in Bergen before he became a part of the black metal scene: Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke alleges Burzum as the \"musical vehicle\" of the \"ex-skinhead\" Vikernes, while Jeffrey Kaplan claims that \"Vikernes first became involved with the extreme right as a National Socialist skinhead while he was an adolescent.\" When asked in the \"Lords of Chaos\" interview whether he hung out with skinheads in Bergen, Vikernes boldly replied: \"There were no skinheads in Bergen.\" He mentions, though, that he had short hair at that time, admired the Germans, and hated the British and Americans.\n\nA fan of classical music as a child, Tchaikovsky in particular, Vikernes started listening to heavy metal at 12, citing Iron Maiden as his biggest inspiration. Later he discovered other metal bands whose sound would be influential on his own band, such as Kreator, Celtic Frost, Bathory, Destruction, Megadeth, Slayer, Pestilence, Deicide and Von. Although Venom are widely considered the primary influence on black metal, Vikernes has always denied to be influenced by them, as well as defining the band as \"a joke\". He once wore a T-shirt of Venom's \"Black Metal\" to promote the genre but stated he later regretted doing that.\n\nFrom an early age, Vikernes was also fascinated with the fictional realm of Middle-earth created by J. R. R. Tolkien. His stage name, Grishnackh, is taken from that of an orc in \"The Two Towers\", while the band name Burzum, meaning \"darkness,\" was taken from the Black Speech inscribed on the One Ring in \"The Lord of the Rings\". The inscription read \"Ash nazg durbatulûk, ash nazg gimbatul, ash nazg thrakatulûk agh \"burzum\"-ishi krimpatul,\" or in English, \"One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all and in the \"darkness\" bind them.\" Additionally, before joining the Bergen death metal band Old Funeral, he was in a band called Uruk-Hai, also a reference from Tolkien's text.\n\nVikernes started playing guitar at the age of 14. When he was 17, Vikernes came into contact with members of Old Funeral. He played guitar with them during 1990–1991 and performed on their \"Devoured Carcass\" EP before he began his solo musical project, Burzum, and quickly became involved with the early Norwegian black metal scene. During 1992–1993, he recorded four albums as Burzum.\n\nVikernes has stated that for the recording of these early albums he used an old Westone guitar, which he had bought in 1987 from an acquaintance. He used the cheapest bass guitar there was in his local shop and \nborrowed drum kit from Old Funeral, the successor band Immortal, and \"another musician living nearby\". On \"Hvis lyset tar oss\", he also borrowed Hellhammer's drum kit, the same one Hellhammer used to record \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\" by Mayhem. He used a Peavey amplifier, but for the recording of \"Filosofem\", he used the amplifier on his brother's stereo and some old fuzz pedals. For vocals, he would use whatever microphone the sound tech handed him, but during the recording of \"Filosofem\", he intentionally used the worst mic they had, a headset mic. On the track \"Dungeons of Darkness\", he used the large gong at Grieghallen for background noise (Euronymous assisted him by beating his fists on it).\n\nIn 1992, Vikernes joined the black metal band Mayhem, a year after band member Dead committed suicide on 8 April 1991.\n\nOn 6 June 1992, the Fantoft Stave Church, dating from the 12th century and considered architecturally significant, was burned to the ground by arson. By January 1993, arson attacks had occurred on at least seven other major stave churches, including one on Christmas Eve of 1992. Vikernes was found guilty of several of these cases: the arson and attempted arson of Åsane Church and Storetveit Church, respectively, in Bergen, the arson of Skjold Church in Vindafjord, and the arson of Holmenkollen Chapel in Oslo. He was also charged with the arson of Fantoft Stave Church, although the jurors found him not guilty. The judges called this an error but did not overthrow the whole case.\n\nAt the time, claims were made by media outlets that Vikernes was associated with theistic Satanism. However, in an interview with Michael Moynihan, Vikernes made a statement about the church burnings that hints at a heathen rather than a Satanist motivation:\nEchoing this sentiment, he writes in \"Vargsmål\": \"For each devastated graveyard, one heathen grave is avenged, for each ten churches burnt to ashes, one heathen hof is avenged, for each ten priests or freemasons assassinated, one heathen is avenged.\"\n\nWhen asked whether the church burnings were linked to Odinism or Germanic neopaganism he replied: \"The point is that all these churches [i.e. church burnings] are linked to one person ... who was not Øystein obviously. All the church burnings, with the exception of Stavanger, because that was another group—who, by the way, have also turned into nationalistic pagans.\"\n\nIn January 1993, an article in one of Norway's biggest newspapers, \"Bergens Tidende\", brought the black metal scene into the media spotlight. Two friends of Vikernes interviewed him and brought the interview to the newspaper, hoping they would print it. In the anonymous interview, \"Count Grishnackh\" (Vikernes) claimed to have burnt the churches and killed a man in Lillehammer. \"BT\" journalist Finn Bjørn Tønder set up a meeting with Count Grishnackh with help from the friends. The journalists were summoned to an apartment and reportedly warned that they would be shot if the police were called. There, Vikernes and his companions told the journalists that they had burnt the churches, or knew who had done it, and said that the attacks would continue. They claimed to be devil worshippers and said: \"Our intention is to spread fear and devilry [...] that is why we are telling this to \"Bergens Tidende\".\" They gave the journalists details about the arsons that hadn't been released to the press, so \"BT\" spoke with the police before publishing it, who confirmed these details.\n\nThe article was published on 20 January as the front page of the \"BT\". It was headlined \"We Lit the Fires\" and included a photo of Vikernes, his face mostly hidden, holding two large knives. However, by the time the article was printed, Vikernes had already been arrested. The police allegedly found him by going to an address printed on a Burzum flyer, although Vikernes believes that Tønder \"snitched\" on him.\n\nAccording to Vikernes, the anonymous interview was planned by himself and Euronymous. The goal, he says, was to scare people, promote black metal, and get more customers for Helvete. At the time, Burzum was about to release the \"Aske\" mini-album. Vikernes said of the interview: \"I exaggerated a lot and when the journalist left we [...] had a good laugh because he didn't seem to understand that I was pulling his leg\". He added that the interview revealed nothing that could prove his involvement in any crime. Vikernes claims that, after he was arrested, \"the journalist edited the interview and [...] published an insane version of it the following day, without even letting me read through it.\" Some of the other scene members were also arrested and questioned, but all were released for lack of evidence. Jørn Inge Tunsberg of Hades said that the interview had \"grave consequences\" for the rest of the scene and that they did not know he was going to talk to the press, as \"he had said nothing\". He added that they became \"bloody angry\" and he, Tunsberg, was \"pissed off\".\n\nNorwegian magazine \"Rock Furore\" published an interview with Vikernes in February 1993. In it, he said of the prison system: \"It's much too nice here. It's not hell at all. In this country prisoners get a bed, toilet and shower. It's completely ridiculous. I asked the police to throw me in a real dungeon, and also encouraged them to use violence\". He was released in March for lack of evidence.\n\nIn early 1993, animosity arose between Euronymous and Vikernes, and between Euronymous and the Norwegian black metal scene. After the \"Bergens Tidende\" episode, Euronymous decided to shut Helvete as it began to draw the attention of the police and media.\n\nOn the night of 10 August 1993, Vikernes and Snorre \"Blackthorn\" Ruch drove from Bergen to Euronymous' apartment at Tøyengata (English: Tøyen Street) in Oslo. Upon their arrival a confrontation began and Vikernes fatally stabbed Euronymous. His body was found on the stairs outside the apartment with 23 cut wounds – two to the head, five to the neck, and sixteen to the back. At first, many blamed Swedish black metalers for the murder.\n\nIt has been speculated that the murder was the result of a power struggle, a financial dispute over Burzum records, or an attempt at \"outdoing\" a recent stabbing in Lillehammer committed by Emperor drummer Faust. Vikernes denies all of these rumours, stating that he killed Euronymous in self-defense: He says that Euronymous had plotted to stun him with an electroshock weapon, tie him up and torture him to death while videotaping the event. Vikernes explains: \"If he was talking about it to everybody and anybody, I wouldn't have taken it seriously. But he just told a select group of friends, and one of them told me.\" He said Euronymous planned to use a meeting about an unsigned contract to ambush him. Blackthorn stood outside smoking while Vikernes climbed the stairs to Euronymous' apartment on the fourth floor. Vikernes said he met Euronymous at the door and handed him the contract, but when he stepped forward and confronted Euronymous, Euronymous \"panicked\" and kicked him in the chest. The two got into a struggle, and Vikernes stabbed Euronymous to death. Vikernes contends that most of Euronymous' cut wounds were caused by broken glass he had fallen on during the struggle. After the slaying, Vikernes and Blackthorn drove back to Bergen. On the way, they stopped at a lake where Vikernes disposed of his bloodstained clothes. The self-defense story is doubted by Emperor drummer Faust.\n\nAccording to Vikernes, Blackthorn only came along to show Euronymous some new guitar riffs and was \"in the wrong place at the wrong time\". Blackthorn claims that in the summer of 1993, he was almost committed to a mental hospital but fled to Bergen and stayed with Vikernes. He said Vikernes planned to murder Euronymous and pressured him into coming along. Blackthorn said of the murder, \"I was neither for nor against it. I didn't give a shit about Øystein\". Vikernes called Blackthorn's claims a \"defense [...] to make sure I couldn't blame him [for the murder]\".\nVikernes was arrested on 19 August 1993 in Bergen. The police found 150 kg of explosives and 3,000 rounds of ammunition in his home. According to Jeffrey Kaplan in his book \"Encyclopedia of White Power\", Vikernes \"intended to blow up Blitz House, the radical leftist and anarchist enclave in Oslo\", a plan which \"was reportedly on the verge of execution.\" In an article originally published in 1999, Kevin Coogan also mentioned Vikernes' alleged intent to \"destroy an Oslo-based punk anti-fascist squat called Blitz House,\" and stated \"Vikernes may have felt that he had no choice but to kill Euronymous before bombing Blitz House because 'the Communist' would almost certainly have opposed such an act.\" Vikernes denied these claims in a 2009 interview, stating \"I was getting [the explosives and ammunition] in order to defend Norway if we were attacked any time. During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union could have decided to attack us. We have no reason to trust neither the government, the royal family or the military because of what happened last time we were attacked. We are left to ourselves.\"\n\nVikernes' trial began on 2 May 1994; he was represented by the lawyer Stein-Erik Mattsson. Many other members of the scene, including Blackthorn and Faust, were put on trial around the same time. Some of them confessed to their crimes and implicated others. According to \"Lords of Chaos\", \"Vikernes is disgusted by the fact that, while he held fast to a code of silence, others confessed.\"\n\nDuring the trial the media made Vikernes \"the nation's first real bogeyman in fifty years\". At the trial it was claimed that he, Blackthorn, and another friend had planned the murder. The court alleged that this third person stayed at the apartment in Bergen as an alibi; to make it look like they never left Bergen, he was to rent films, play them in the apartment, and withdraw money from Vikernes' credit card.\n\nOn 16 May 1994, Vikernes was sentenced to 21 years in prison (Norway's maximum penalty) for the murder of Euronymous, the arson of three churches, the attempted arson of a fourth church, and for the theft and storage of 150 kg of explosives. Though Vikernes only confessed to the theft and storage of the explosives, two churches were set on fire the day he was sentenced, \"presumably as a statement of symbolic support\". Blackthorn, who hadn't taken part in the murder as he had gone down the condominium's stairs to smoke, was sentenced to 8 years in prison for being an accomplice.\n\nMay 1994 also saw the release of Mayhem's album \"De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas\", which has Euronymous on electric guitar and Vikernes on bass guitar. Before the release, Euronymous' family had asked Mayhem's drummer, Hellhammer, to remove the bass tracks recorded by Vikernes. Hellhammer said \"I thought it was appropriate that the murderer and victim were on the same record. I put word out that I was re-recording the bass parts, but I never did.\"\n\nVikernes served his sentence at the prisons in Bergen, Tønsberg, Ringerike, Trondheim, and Tromsø.\n\nIn late 1994, Vikernes wrote a Norwegian-language book called \"Vargsmål\" (\"Varg's Speech\"). Vikernes has said he wrote \"Vargsmål\" to defend himself against \"all the media lies\", and that the book is marked by his isolation and anger at the time. According to \"Lords of Chaos\", \"Vargsmål\" became available on the internet for some time in 1996 but not in a printed form. In 1997, a Norwegian publisher released a paperback edition of the book; its publication was financed by Vikernes' mother, Helene Bore.\nHowever, Vikernes stated that \"the prison authorities confiscated the manuscript, and for several years I wasn't allowed to even proof-read it. It was an unfinished manuscript, consisting of many separate articles, and ideally I would have been able to make some changes before it was published, but I wasn't. Eventually I gave up and just published it as it was – with all the errors and not-so-balanced articles.\"\n\nOn 8 April 1997, Norwegian police arrested five neo-Nazis in Hemnes. According to police, the young men were part of a self-styled \"Einsatzgruppe\" and were plotting attacks on political and religious figures in Norway. They also had plans to break Vikernes out of prison. The group \"had all the trappings of a paramilitary unit\", including guns, explosives, bulletproof vests, steel helmets and balaclavas. One of its members, Tom Eiternes, had befriended Vikernes in prison before escaping while on leave. Vikernes' mother, Lene Bore, was arrested for supplying the group with 100,000 kroner. She confessed, but claimed she did not know they were \"right-wing extremists\" and said her son was being attacked by fellow inmates. In late 1996, his jaw had reportedly been broken in a fight with another inmate. However, the prison director said her claims were unfounded, and police suspected that the money came from Vikernes himself. \"Lords of Chaos\" says that Vikernes adopted a \"skinhead\" look and wore a belt buckle with SS insignia around this time. Despite her confession, Bore was not convicted, and in 1998 the case against the \"Einsatzgruppe\" was dropped.\n\nDuring his time in prison, Vikernes recorded two albums made up wholly of ambient and neofolk music. The first, \"Dauði Baldrs\", was recorded in 1994–1995 and released in October 1997. The second, \"Hliðskjálf\", was recorded in 1998 and released in April 1999. Vikernes was denied access to an electric guitar, bass guitar or drums, and instead used a synthesizer. In 2000, Vikernes decided to put Burzum on hold. He believed that his philosophy was constantly misinterpreted by an ignorant fan base that was too closely related to black metal and Satanism. Later, through his website, he indicated that he hoped to continue Burzum after his release from prison, stating: \"I will publish a few books, possibly using a pseudonym in order to stay anonymous, and perhaps a Burzum album or two, but that's it\".\n\nBetween 1998 and 2004, Vikernes would write a further five books in prison. In 1998 he wrote a book called \"Germansk Mytologi og Verdensanskuelse\" (\"Teutonic Mythology and Worldview\"). Apart from \"Vargsmål\", this is the only other book that was published. In 2004, he translated it into English, added new material, and renamed it \"The Mysteries and Mythology of Ancient Scandinavia\". In 1999, he wrote \"EihwaR\", a \"philosophical/political/historical novel in form of a dialogue between a student and an oppositional\". This too he translated into English and renamed \"The Religion of the Blood\". That year, he also wrote a Norwegian and English translation and interpretation of \"Völuspá\". In 2000–2001, he wrote \"Teorier\" (\"Theories\"). It offered some theories on the origin of different customs and beliefs, and contained several short stories about the prehistoric era. However, he decided to scrap this book. In 2003–2004 he wrote a \"gothic-fantasy novel\" called \"The Cult of Hel\". By late 2003, he had begun writing articles for Burzum.org, which became the official Burzum website.\n\nIn August 2003, Vikernes was transferred from a maximum-security prison in Bergen to the low-security prison in Tønsberg. On 15 October, the local paper, \"Tønsbergs Blad\", published an article that criticised Vikernes. On 26 October, Vikernes went on the run after being granted a short leave. He stopped a car in Numedal. Inside it was a family of three, who said that he hijacked the car at gunpoint. About 19 hours later, police stopped the car in Romerike and arrested him. The car contained knives, a gas mask, camouflage clothing, a portable GPS navigator, maps, a compass, a laptop and a mobile phone. Police also found a handgun and an AG3 automatic rifle in a cabin in Rollag, where Vikernes had hidden during his escape. They concluded that his escape \"was well planned and involved assistance from several people on the outside\". Before the escape, Vikernes gave his mother a letter. In it, he wrote that he had received death threats and another inmate had tried to strangle him shortly after the newspaper article was published. For his actions, thirteen months were added to Vikernes' sentence and he was moved to a prison in Ringerike. In July 2004, he was moved to a maximum-security prison in Trondheim. The last three years of his sentence were spent in Tromsø Prison.\n\nWhen Vikernes was convicted, it was possible to be released on parole after serving 12 years of a 21-year sentence, but in 2002, before he became eligible, the Norwegian Parliament had extended this to 14 years. In June 2006, after serving 12 years, Vikernes was denied parole by the Department of Criminal Justice for this reason. His lawyer, John Christian Elden, has complained that the policy change is a form of retroactive legislation. Article 97 of the Norwegian constitution forbids any law being given retroactive force. Vikernes was denied parole again in June 2008, although he was allowed to leave Tromsø Prison for short periods to visit his family. His full sentence would run for another seven years. In March 2009, however, his parole was announced. He had then served 15 years of his 21-year sentence. On 22 May 2009, he confirmed that he had been released from prison on probation.\n\nVikernes continued with Burzum after his release. He released a further three black metal albums: \"Belus\" (2010), \"Fallen\" (2011) and \"Umskiptar\" (2012) and a compilation of re-recorded songs (\"From the Depths of Darkness\"). On 27 April 2013, Vikernes posted a song on his official YouTube channel, titled Back to the Shadows, which Vikernes has stated to be the last metal track to be released by Burzum. In May 2013, he released another ambient album, \"Sôl austan, Mâni vestan\".\n\nVikernes also continued writing, both on his Burzum website and on his personal blog, Thulean Perspective, which was set up in January 2013. The website Ancestral Cult was created by him and his wife. Also in 2013, they released a film called \"ForeBears\", based on ancient Germanic pagan rituals.\n\nOn 16 July 2013, Vikernes and his wife, a French national, were arrested in Corrèze, France, on suspicion of planning acts of terrorism after his wife bought four rifles. Officials later stated that Vikernes' wife had a legal firearms permit to buy the rifles. The two were later released without charge after police failed to identify any terrorist plans or targets. Vikernes was instead charged by French authorities with inciting racial hatred against Jews and Muslims. On 8 July 2014, Vikernes was convicted of inciting racial hatred and sentenced to six months of probation and a fine of .\n\nIn 2015, Vikernes released his own tabletop role-playing game named \"MYFAROG\" (Mythical Fantasy Role-Playing Game), which is based upon \"European values, geography, (pre-)history, mythology, traditions and morals\" and offers the player the \"opportunity to play a game in accordance with your own European nature.\"\n\nIn June 2018, Vikernes made comments that \"[he had] moved on [from Burzum]\" on his YouTube channel, saying \"bye bye\" to the project.\n\nIn \"\", director Sam Dunn described Vikernes as \"the most notorious metal musician of all time\" due to his crimes as well as his political and religious views. In the late '90s, \"to avoid confusion\" and \"to find a term more suitable and accurate\", Vikernes coined the name \"Odalism\" for his beliefs, based on the Odal rune. He explains that Odalism encompasses \"Paganism, traditional nationalism, racialism and environmentalism\". Vikernes contrasts it with \"modern 'civilization'\" which he equates with \"capitalism, materialism, Judeo-Christianity, pollution, urbanization, race-mixing, Americanization, socialism, globalization, \"et cetera\"\". He places importance on the fact that Odalism \"is not a term tainted by history\". The word comes \"From Norse \"óðal\" (homeland, allodium, allodial law, nobility, noble, inherited goods, fatherland, land property, distinguished family, distinguished, splendid, kin and the nation)\".\n\nIn a 2010 interview with \"Vampiria\" magazine, Vikernes was asked about Odinism playing a major role in his life, to which he responded: \"I am not religious in any way, but I have a Pagan ideology and Pagan values. I believe in blood, soil and honour; family, homeland and hamingja; strength, traditions and courage. And I believe in a Europe waking up.\" As of 2011, Vikernes embraces a \"modern scientific worldview resting on a foundation made up of the Pagan values and ideals: loyalty, wisdom, courage, love, discipline, honesty, intelligence, beauty, responsibility, health and strength\". He draws a direct connection between both race and intelligence and intelligence and religion, denouncing theism as \"mental enslavement\" fit only for \"inferior races\".\n\nIn addition to \"Vargsmål\", works by Vikernes on his personal religious world view include \"Irminsûl\" and \"Germansk Mytologi og Verdensanskuelse\" (\"Germanic Mythology and Worldview\"). In 2011, Vikernes published his first book in English, entitled \"Sorcery and Religion in Ancient Scandinavia\", about the religious practices of Scandinavian peoples, particularly during the Stone Age and Bronze Age. Rejecting most contemporary academic theories, he takes inspiration from Sir James Frazer's work \"The Golden Bough\" in interpreting the myths as representing aspects of yearly rituals related to death, burial and ruling.\n\nIn a July 2005 statement on his website, Vikernes wrote that although he \"occasionally used the term 'nazism' to describe [his] ideological foundation\", he no longer describes himself as such. He had labelled himself as a follower of Nazism from the period following his 1994 conviction to the late 1990s. The reason, he said, was \"because many of the Norwegian (and German) 'nazis' embraced our Pagan religion as our blood-religion and they rejected Judeo-Christianity as Jewish heresy\". He identifies three things which distinguish him from the \"Nazis\": \"unlike them I am not socialistic (not even on a national level), I am not materialistic and I believe in (\"the ancient Scandinavian\"!) democracy\". He expresses a desire to not be associated with anti-Slavic sentiments. He also states that though he is a racist in the sense that he acknowledges physical and mental differences between the races, he hates no one and in general states that \"hatred is irrational\".\n\nReligious studies scholar Egil Asprem characterised Vikernes as \"an idol for skinheads with an inclination towards Paganism and for contemporary Pagans with an inclination towards National Socialism\", while Jewish author Jeffrey Kaplan described Vikernes as \"busy promoting his Odinist and National Socialist philosophy from behind bars\". According to author Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke, \"while in jail, Vikernes began to formulate his heathen ideology using material from Norse mythology combined with occult National Socialism\". Goodrick-Clarke bases this account of Vikernes' beliefs on some articles that Vikernes had written for the short-lived magazine \"Filosofem\". He also uses the book \"Lords of Chaos\", and a manifesto called \"Vargsmål\" (\"Varg's Speech\"), which Vikernes began to write after his imprisonment. Vikernes has denounced the English translation of his book in an article on his website. He has also stated on the website that \"\"Vargsmål\" was written in anger, while I was young and in isolation, and the book is marked by this\".\n\nA 2009 interview for the Norwegian newspaper \"Dagbladet\" claimed that he was associated with neo-Nazi groups during his time in prison. He replied: \"I have never formed or been a member of such organisations. The only organization I am a member of is Riksmålsforbundet\" (\"The Society for the Preservation of Traditional Standard Norwegian\"). According to Swedish scholar Matthias Gardell in his book \"Gods of the Blood\", Vikernes became a central figure in the neo-völkisch Heathen Front during his time in prison. The Heathen Front started as a group in Norway, \"Norsk Hedensk Front\" (Norwegian Heathen Front) or NHF, and grew into the international \"Allgermanische Heidnische Front\" (Pan-Germanic Heathen Front) or AHF. Vikernes was considered to be the leader of the Norwegian Heathen Front, according to Xavier Cattarinich, and Goodrick-Clarke mentions that Vikernes underlined \"his role as chieftain of his Norwegian Heathen Front\" with the writing of \"Vargsmål\".\n\nWhen he was asked about his involvement in the AHF in a 2004 interview, Vikernes stated that it was Antifa groups who \"repeatedly wrote\" that the NHF was a neo-Nazi group and that he was their leader, claims which he describes as \"persecution\". He also said that \"the [Norwegian] secret police claimed adamantly\" that he was the leader of the Heathen Front. Vikernes then continued by stating that, as a result of these claims, he left the Heathen Front, to see what \"the Antifa/Monitor morons and the secret police would do\". In practice, Vikernes stated, he never was a member of the group, since, being in prison, he could not participate in their activities and he had never \"met half of them\". He also stated that if he wanted to write articles for their magazine, he could do that regardless of whether he was a member or not.\n\nVikernes has a son who was born in 2007 to his wife Marie Cachet. They were married the same year. In a 2008 interview, he said he and his wife were expecting a second child (Vikernes' third). After his release, he and his family settled on a small farm in Bø, Telemark. They later moved to Limousin in France. , he has seven children.\n\nVikernes is a teetotaler and claims to have never used alcohol or other recreational drugs. He also avoids the unnecessary use of pharmaceutical drugs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
