{"id": "725226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725226", "title": "Ad hoc hypothesis", "text": "Ad hoc hypothesis\n\nIn science and philosophy, an \"ad hoc\" hypothesis is a hypothesis added to a theory in order to save it from being falsified. Often, \"ad hoc\" hypothesizing is employed to compensate for anomalies not anticipated by the theory in its unmodified form.\n\nScientists are often skeptical of theories that rely on frequent, unsupported adjustments to sustain them. This is because, if a theorist so chooses, there is no limit to the number of \"ad hoc\" hypotheses that they could add. Thus the theory becomes more and more complex, but is never falsified. This is often at a cost to the theory's predictive power, however. \"Ad hoc\" hypotheses are often characteristic of pseudoscientific subjects.\n\nAn \"ad hoc\" hypothesis is not necessarily incorrect; in some cases, a minor change to a theory was all that was necessary. For example, Albert Einstein's addition of the cosmological constant to general relativity in order to allow a static universe was \"ad hoc\". Although he later referred to it as his \"greatest blunder\", it may correspond to theories of dark energy.\n\nThe assumption that people are prone to make up ad hoc hypotheses to defend their world views is criticized by a number of historians of science and philosophers of science as it can lead to allegations of any valid criticism being an attempt to justify a specific theory that is not there. Such allegations can stand in the way of important criticism of flawed methodologies, thus causing the flawed methods to remain in continued use, by allegations that anyone who point out flaws in the methods doing it to defend a purported worldview. The allegations are made unfalsifiable and unable to self-correct by explaining away any criticism of the allegations as rationalization or self-deception. The problem includes false dichotomies that claim that there is a face-off between two world views, missing the point that any number of hypotheses and theories make some predictions that incidentally happen to overlap with predictions made by other hypotheses or theories while also making some unique predictions (e.g. a partial incidental overlap but also key differences of predictions between the obsolete luminiferous aether theory and the modern vacuum energy theory that make the evidence that falsify the former fall outside the predictions made by the latter) which is often confused by \"ad hoc\" allegers with one hypothesis being a \"justification\" for another hypothesis with different predictions. False dichotomies cause not only allegations against hypotheses and theories but also against general remarks of flawed methodologies that suggest no specific hypotheses or theories that can dismiss remarks of technical errors in the equipment, remarks of statistical confirmation biases that are due to institutional publication bias between \"ordinary claims\" and \"extraordinary claims\" rather than individual brains, remarks of biased searching for other explanations in some cases but not others that lead to false appearances of a phenomenon \"really\" existing in one group but not in another, and other types of methodological errors. By arguing that a diversity of hypotheses and theories until falsification enhances the possibility of one correct one being among them and surviving future falsification attempts, the distinction between \"claimant\" individuals and \"non-claimant\" institutions that is implicit in the concept of burden of proof is criticized for not being evidence-based and that the same empirical data can falsify many hypotheses and theories with overlapping predictions without the expensive separate testing of each hypothesis that is alleged when claiming that \"most hypotheses must be ignored to save money\".\n\nNaturally, some gaps in knowledge, and even some observations that contradict a theory, must be temporarily tolerated while research continues. To temper \"ad hoc\" hypothesizing in science, common practice includes falsificationism (somewhat in the philosophy of Occam's razor). Falsificationism means scientists become more likely to reject a theory as it becomes increasingly burdened by ignored contradicting observations, and by \"ad hoc\" hypotheses.\n\n"}
{"id": "1748825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1748825", "title": "Advertising management", "text": "Advertising management\n\nAdvertising management is a planned managerial process designed to oversee and control the various advertising activities involved in a program to communicate with a firm's target market and which is ultimately designed to influence the consumer's purchase decisions. Advertising is just one element in a company's promotional mix and as such, must be integrated with the overall marketing communications program. Advertising is, however, the most expensive of all the promotional elements and therefore must be managed with care and accountability.\n\nMarketers use different types of advertising. Brand advertising is defined as a non-personal communication message placed in a paid, mass medium designed to persuade target consumers of a product or service benefits in an effort to induce them to make a purchase. Corporate advertising refers to paid messages designed to that communicate the corporation's values in an effort to influence public opinion. Yet other types of advertising such as not-for-profit advertising and political advertising present special challenges that require different strategies and approaches.\nAdvertising management is a complex process that involves making many layered decisions including the developing advertising strategies, setting an advertising budget, setting advertising objectives, determining the target market, media strategy (which involves media planning), developing the message strategy and evaluating the overall effectiveness of the advertising effort.) Advertising management may also involve media buying.\n\nAdvertising management is a complex process. However, at its simplest level, advertising management can be reduced to four key decision areas:\n\nConsumers tend to think that all forms of commercial promotion constitute advertising. However, in marketing and advertising, the term \"advertising\" has a very special meaning that reflects its status as a distinct type of promotion.\n\nThe marketing and advertising literature has many different definitions of advertising, but it is possible to identify common elements or themes within most of these definitions. The American Marketing Association (AMA) defines advertising as \"the placement of announcements and persuasive messages in time or space purchased in any of the mass media by business firms, nonprofit organizations, government agencies, and individuals who seek to inform and/ or persuade members of a particular target market or audience about their products, services, organizations, or ideas\". The \"American Heritage Dictionary\" defines advertising as \"the activity of attracting public attention to a product or business, as by paid announcements in the print, broadcast, or electronic media\". Selected marketing scholars have defined advertising in the following terms: \"any non-personal communication that is paid for by an identified sponsor, and involves either mass communication viz newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and other media (e.g., billboards, bus stop signage) or direct to-consumer communication via direct mail\". and \"the element of the marketing communications mix that is non-personal, paid for by an identified sponsor, and disseminated through mass channels of communication to promote the adoption of goods, services, persons, or ideas.\" One of the shortest definitions is that advertising is \"a paid, mass-mediated attempt to persuade\".\n\nSeveral common themes emerge in the various definitions of advertising: \nIn summary, given that advertising is paid, it is one of the many controllable elements in the marketing program. Advertising is qualitatively different from publicity where the message sponsor is either not identified or ambiguously defined, and different to personal selling which occurs in real-time and involves some face-to-face contact between message sponsor and recipient allowing for two-way dialogue.\nWhile advertising refers to the advertising message, per se, advertising management refers to the process of planning and executing an advertising campaign or campaigns; that is, it is a series of planned decisions that begins with market research continues through to setting advertising budgets, developing advertising objectives, executing the creative messages and follows up with efforts to measure the extent to which objectives were achieved and evaluate the cost-benefit of the overall advertising effort.\n\nIn commercial organisations, advertising, along with other marketing communications activities, is the ultimate responsibility of the marketing department. Some companies outsource part or all of the work to specialists such as advertising agencies, creative design teams, web designers, media buyers, events management specialists or other relevant service providers. Another option is for a company to carry out most or all of the advertising functions within the marketing department in what is known as an \"in-house agency\". By definition, an in-house agency is a \"an advertising organization that is owned and operated by the corporation it serves\". Its mission is to provide advertising services in support of its parent company’s business and marketing objectives. Well-known brands that currently use in-house agencies include Google, Calvin Klein, Adobe, Dell, IBM, Kraft, Marriott and Wendy's.\n\nBoth in-house agencies and outsourcing models have their own advantages and disadvantages. Outsourcing to an external agency allows marketers to obtain highly specialised strategic, research and planning skills, access to top creative talent and provides an independent perspective on marketing or advertising problems. In-house agencies deliver cost advantages, time efficiencies and afford marketers greater control over the advertising effort. In addition, personnel who work within an in-house agency gain considerable creative experience which stays within the company. Recent trends suggest that the number of in-house agencies is rising.\n\nWhether a company chooses to outsource advertising functions to an external agency or carry them out within the marketing department, marketers need a rich understanding of advertising principles in order to prepare effective advertising plans, brief relevant agencies about their needs and expectations or develop their own creative solutions to marketing problems.\n\nThe promotional mix refers to the specific combination of promotional methods used for a brand, product or family of products. Advertising is best treated as a \"multiplier\" that can leverage other elements of the promotional mix and marketing program. Therefore, advertising must be considered as part of a broader marketing and promotional program.\n\nThe promotional mix includes a variety of tools such as:\n\nAdvertising is just one of many elements that comprise the promotional mix. When marketers communicate with target markets across a broad range of different promotional types and media, the potential for contradictory or mixed messages is very real. Accordingly, it is important that advertising is treated as part of a total marketing communications program and that steps are taken to ensure that it is integrated with all other marketing communications, so that all communications messages speak with a 'single voice'. The process of ensuring message consistency across the entire marketing communications program is known as \"integrated marketing communications\".\n\nMarketers need to be aware of the strengths and weaknesses of each of the elements in the promotional mix in order to select the right blend for a given situation. For instance, public relations allows for high credibility message delivery with relatively low costs, while advertising permits message repetition. Advertising is especially useful for creating awareness, but personal channels come into play for the actual purchase. The \"right\" promotional mix should consider both message impact and message consistency. In addition, decision-makers need to recognise that consumers rely on different information sources at different stages of the purchase decision process. Therefore, advertising and other elements of the promotional campaign must be integrated to ensure that consumers receive the right messages via the right channels at the right time, depending on the consumer's readiness to buy.\n\nIn terms of integrated communications, the literature identifies different types of integration: (1) \"Image integration\" refers to messages that have a consistent look and feel, regardless of the medium; (2) \"Functional integration\" refers to capacity of different promotional tools to complement each other and deliver a unified, coherent message; (3) \"Coordinated integration\" refers to the ways that different internal and external agencies (e.g. web designers, advertising agencies, PR consultants) coordinate to provide a consistent message; (4) \"Stakeholder integration\" refers to the way that all stakeholders such as employees, suppliers, customers and others cooperate to communicate a shared understanding of the company's key messages and values and (5) \"Relationship integration\" refers to the way that communications professionals contribute to the company's overall corporate goals and quality management.\n\nOn the surface, integrated marketing communications appear to be simple common sense. Yet, a survey of brand advertisers carried out by the Association of National Advertisers (ANA) revealed that while 67 per cent of marketers engage in integrated marketing communications, just one third are satisfied with their efforts. In practice, integrating communications messages across a broad range of promotional formats and media channels is very difficult to achieve.\n\nStudies have repeatedly demonstrated a clear association between advertising and sales response. Yet the exact process that leads from the consumer of being exposed to an advertising message through to a purchase or behavioral response is not entirely clear. Noting the difficulties in explaining how advertising works, one theorist wrote, \"Only the brave or ignorant...can say exactly what advertising does in the market place.\"\n\nThe advertising and marketing literature suggests a variety of different models to explain how advertising works. These models are not competing theories, but rather explanations of how advertising persuades or influences different types of consumers in different purchase contexts. In a seminal paper, Vankratsas and Ambler surveyed more than 250 papers to develop a typology of advertising models. They identified four broad classes of model: \"cognitive information models\", \"pure affect models\", \"hierarchy of effect models\", \"integrative models\" and \"hierarchy-free models\".\n\nAdvertising researchers have a long-standing interest in understanding both the degree and type of cognitive elaboration that occurs when consumers are exposed to persuasive messages. Cognitive information models assume that consumers are rational decision-makers and that advertising provides consumers with information utility by reducing the need to search for other information about a brand. For example, an advertisement in the \"Yellow Pages\" or an online directory means that the consumer does not have to travel from store to store in search of a product or service. Consumers process this information at a cognitive level before forming an attitude to the brand and purchase intent. A cognition is any thought that surfaces during the elaboration of the information. Cognitive information models are also known as the \"central route to persuasion\".\n\nA common theme in cognitive information models is that the net favourability of cognitive responses has a direct influence on attitude strength. In the cognitive information models, the general path to persuasion is as follows:\n\nTheoretical works, combined with empirical studies, suggest that advertising information is more useful for experience goods (experiential services) than for search goods (tangible products). Research studies also suggest that consumers who are involved in the purchase decision are more likely to actively seek out product information and actively process advertising messages while low-involvement consumers are more likely to respond at an emotional level.\n\nPure affect models suggest that consumers shape their preferences to a brand based on the feelings and attitudes elicited by exposure to an advertising message. When consumers view an advertisement, they not only develop attitudes towards the advertisement and the advertiser, but also develop feelings and beliefs about the brand being advertised.\n\nPure affect models help to explain the consumer's emotional responses to advertising and brands. These models suggest that simple exposure is to a brand is sufficient to generate purchase intention. Exposure in the form of advertising messages leads to an attitude to the advertisement (A) which transfers to the attitude to the brand (A)without any further cognitive processing. Exposure it not restricted to physical contact; rather it can refer to any brand-related contact such as advertising, promotion or virtual brands on websites.\n\nIn pure affect models, the path to communication effectiveness is represented by the following:\n\nThis path is also known as the \"peripheral route to persuasion\". Empirical research in the pure affect sphere suggests that advertising messages do not need to be informative to be effective, however consumers must like the advertising execution for the message to be effective. In addition, ad liking and advertiser credibility, may be especially important for corporate image advertising (compared to product-related advertising).\n\nHierarchical models are linear sequential models built on an assumption that consumers move through a series of cognitive and affective stages culminating in the purchase decision. The common theme among these models is that advertising operates as a stimulus and the purchase decision is a response. A number of hierarchical models can be found in the literature including Lavidge's hierarchy of effects, DAGMAR and AIDA and other variants. Some authors have argued that, for advertising purposes, the hierarchical models have dominated advertising theory, and that, of these models, the AIDA model is one of the most widely applied.\n\nThe AIDA model proposes that advertising messages need to accomplish a number of tasks designed to move the consumer through a series of sequential steps from brand awareness through to action (purchase and consumption).\nAs consumers move through the hierarchy of effects they pass through both a cognitive processing stage and an affective processing stage before any action occurs. Thus the hierarchy of effects models all include Cognition (C)- Affect (A)- Behaviour (B) as the core steps in the underlying behavioral sequence. The underlying behavioral sequence for all hierarchy models is as follows:\n\nThe literature offers numerous variations on the basic path to persuasion. The basic AIDA model is one of the longest serving models. Contemporary hierarchical models often modify or expand the basic AIDA model, resulting in additional steps, however, all follow the basic sequence which includes Cognition- Affect- Behaviour. Some of these newer models have been adapted to accommodate consumer's digital media habits. \nSelected hierarchical models follow:\n\nAll hierarchical models indicate that brand awareness is a necessary precondition to brand attitude, brand preference or brand purchase intention. The process of moving consumers from purchase intention to actual sales is known as \"conversion.\" While advertising is an excellent tool for creating awareness, brand attitude and purchase intent, it usually requires support from other elements in the promotion mix and the marketing program to convert purchase intent into an actual sale. Many different techniques can be used to convert interest into sales including special price offers, special promotional offers, attractive trade-in terms, guarantees or a strong call-to-action as part of the advertising message.\n\nIn order to penetrate markets, it is essential that high levels of awareness are created as early as possible in a product or brand life-cycle. Hierarchical models provide marketers and advertisers with basic insights about the nature of the target audience, the optimal message and media strategy indicated at different junctures throughout a product's life cycle. For new products, the main advertising objective should be to create awareness with a broad cross-section of the potential market as quickly as practical. When the desired levels of awareness have been attained, the promotional effort should shift to stimulating interest, desire or conviction. The number of potential purchasers decreases as the product moves through the natural sales cycle in an effect likened to a funnel. Early in the campaign, the marketers should attempt to reach as many potential buyers as possible with high impact messages. Later in the cycle, and as the number of prospects becomes smaller, the marketer can employ more tightly targeted promotional activities such as personal selling, direct mail and email directed at those individuals or sub-segments more likely to exhibit a genuine interest in the product or brand.\n\nIntegrative models assume that consumers process advertising information via two paths – both cognitive (thinking) and affective (feeling) simultaneously. These models seek to combine the type of purchase with the consumer's dominant mode of processing. Integrative models are based on research findings indicating that congruence between personality and the way a persuasive message is framed. That is, aligning the message framing with the recipient's personality profile may play an important role in ensuring the success of that message. In a recent experiment, five advertisements (each designed to target one of the five personality traits) were constructed for a single product. Findings suggest that advertisements were evaluated more positively when they aligned with participants' motives. Tailoring persuasive messages to the personality traits of the targeted audience can be an effective way of enhancing the message's impact.\n\nThere are many integrative frameworks. Two of the more widely used models are the grids developed by Foote, Cone, Belding (FCB) (see below) and another devised by Rossiter and Percy, and which is an extension of the FCB approach. These planning grids are very popular with advertising practitioners because of their ease of application.\n\nThe FCB planning grid was developed by Richard Vaughan, who was the Senior Vice President at advertising agency, Foote, Cone and Belding, in the 1980s. The planning grid has two dimensions, involvement and information processing. Each dimension has two values, representing extremes of a continuum, specifically involvement (high/low) and information processing (thinking/feeling). These form a 2 X 2 matrix with four cells representing the different types of advertising effects.\n\nThe FCB planning grid gives rise to a number of implications for advertising and media strategy:\n\n\"Quadrant 1: \"High-involvement/ rational purchases: In the first quadrant consumers learn about a product through advertising after which they develop a favourable (or unfavourable) disposition to the product which may or may not culminate in a purchase. This approach is considered optimal for advertising high ticket items such as cars and household furniture. When this is the dominant approach to purchasing, advertising messages should be information-rich and media strategy should be weighted towards media such as magazines and newspapers capable of delivering long-copy advertising.\n\n\"Quadrant 2\": High-involvement/ emotional purchases: In the second quadrant, audiences exhibit an emotional response to advertisements which transfers to products. This approach is used for products such as jewellery, expensive perfumes and designer fashion where consumers are emotionally involved in the purchase. When this mode of purchasing is evident, advertising should be designed to create a strong brand image and media should be selected to support the relevant image. For example, magazines such as \"Vogue\" can help to create an up-market image.\n\n\"Quadrant 3\": Low-involvement/ rational purchases: The third quadrant represents routine low-involvement purchases evident for many packaged goods such as detergents, tissues and other consumable household items. Consumers make habitual purchases, and after consumption the benefit of using the brand is reinforced which ideally results in long-term brand loyalty (re-purchase). Given that this is a rational purchase, consumers need to be informed or reminded of the product's benefits. Advertising messages should encourage repeat purchasing and brand loyalty while media strategy should be weighted towards media that can deliver high frequency required for reminder campaigns such as TV, radio and sales promotion.\n\n\"Quadrant 4\": Low-involvement/ emotional purchases: In the final quadrant, consumers make low-involvement, relatively inexpensive purchases that make them feel good. Impulse purchases and convenience goods fall into this category. The purchase leads to feelings of satisfaction which, in turn, reinforces the purchase behavior. When this approach is the dominant purchase mode, advertising messages should \"congratulate\" customers on their purchase choice and the media strategy should be weighted towards options that reach customers when they are close to the point-of-purchase such as billboards, sales promotion and point-of-sale displays. Examples of this approach include \"McDonald's – You Deserve a Break Today\" and \"L'Oreal- Because You're Worth It\".\n\nMany authors have treated reason (rational processes) and emotion (affective processes) as entirely independent. Yet, other researchers have argued that both reason and emotion can be employed simultaneously, to process advertising information. Hierarchy-free models draw on evidence from psychology and consumer neuroscience which suggest that consumers process information via different pathways rather than in any linear/ sequential manner. Thus, hierarchy-free models do not employ any fixed processing sequence. These models treat advertising as part of the brand totality. Some hierarchy-free models treat brands as 'myth' and advertising as 'myth-making' while other models seek to tap into the consumer's memories of pleasant consumption experiences (e.g. the MAC- Memory-Affect-Cognition model). Hierarchy-free models are of increasing interest to academics and practitioners because they are more customer-centric and allow for the possibility of consumer co-creation of value.\n\nAdvertising planning does not occur in a vacuum. Advertising objectives are derived from marketing objectives. Therefore, the first step in any advertising planning is to review to the objectives as set out in the marketing plan. This is designed to ensure that all promotional efforts, including advertising, are working towards achieving both short-term and long-term corporate and marketing goals and align with the company's values and vision.\n\nA review of the marketing plan can be a relatively simple process or it can involve a formal review, known as an \"audit\". The review or audit might consider such issues as prior marketing communications activity, an evaluation of what has been effective in the past, whether new market research studies are warranted, an outline of competitive advertising activity and a review of budgetary considerations.\n\nThe marketing plan can be expected to provide information about the company's long and short-term goals, competitive rivalry, a description of the target market, product(s) offered, positioning strategy, pricing strategy, distribution strategy and other promotional programs. All of this information has potential implications for developing the advertising program. The advertiser must study the marketing plan carefully and determine how to translate the marketing objectives into an advertising program. Each advertising campaign is unique, so that the review requires a great deal of analysis as well as judgement.\n\nCommunications objectives are derived from marketing objectives. However, communications objectives must be framed in terms of communications effects. For example, a company's short-term marketing objective might be to increase sales response for a given brand. However, this objective would require that a large number of consumers are aware of the brand and are favourably disposed towards it. Furthermore, consumers' purchase intentions may be dependent on other marketing activities such as access, price, the ability to trial the brand prior to final purchase and other marketing activities. It is unfair to hold marketing communications accountable for all sales when it is only one element in the total marketing effort.\n\nWhile advertising is an excellent tool for creating awareness and interest in a brand, it is less effective at turning that awareness and interest into actual sales. To convert interest into sales, different promotional tools such as personal selling or sales promotion may be more useful. Many authors caution against using sales or market share objectives for marketing communications or advertising purposes.\n\nCommunications objectives might include such things as to:\n\nThese will need to be translated into advertising objectives.\n\nThe review should take note of the overall target market. However, this does not necessarily mean that the advertising campaign will be directed at the total target market. Marketers and advertisers make a distinction between the \"target audience\" for an advertising message and the \"target market\" for a product or brand. By definition, the target audience is the intended audience for a given advertisement or message in a publication or broadcast medium, while the target market consists of all existing and potential consumers of a product, service or brand. Companies often develop different advertising messages and media strategies to reach different target audiences. For example, McDonald's Restaurants uses the anthropomorphic brand characters, Ronald McDonald and Hamburgler, in its advertising directed at children who are important brand-choice influencers. However, for adult target audience members, McDonald's uses messages that emphasise convenience and quality. Thus the target audience for a given advertising message may comprise only a subset of the total market as defined in the marketing plan. Careful perusal of the marketing plan will assist marketers in the process of defining the optimal target audiences for specific advertising objectives.\n\nThe communications objectives will, at least in part, depend on whether the marketer is using a push or pull strategy. In a \"push strategy\", the marketer advertises intensively with retailers and wholesalers, with the expectation that they will stock the product or brand, and that consumers will purchase it when they see it in stores. In contrast, in a \"pull strategy\", the marketer advertises directly to consumers hoping that they will put pressure on retailers to stock the product or brand, thereby pulling it through the distribution channel. In a push strategy the promotional mix would consist of trade advertising and sales calls while the advertising media would normally be weighted towards trade magazines, exhibitions and trade shows while a pull strategy would make more extensive use consumer-oriented advertising and sales promotions while the media mix would be weighted towards mass-market media such as newspapers, magazines, television and radio.\n\nSetting advertising objectives provides the framework for the entire advertising plan. Therefore, it is important to specify precisely what is to be achieved and outline how advertising will be evaluated. Advertising objectives should be Specific, Measurable, Achievable and Time-dependent (SMART). Any statement of advertising objectives must include measurement benchmarks – that is the norms against which advertising effectiveness will be evaluated. One of the first approaches to setting communications-oriented objectives was the DAGMAR approach (Defining Advertising Goals for Measured Advertising Results) developed in the 1960s. While memorable, the DAGMAR approach fails to provide concrete guidance on how to link advertising objectives with communications effects.\n\nIn order to set realistic and achievable advertising objectives, most advertisers try to link advertising or communications objectives with the communications effects. Rossiter and Bellman have argued that, for advertising purposes, five communications effects should be considered, namely:\n\nFor many purchases, category need and purchase facilitation will be present in the customer's mind and can be omitted from the advertising objectives. However, for some purchases, the customer may not be aware of the product category or may not know how to access it, in which case these objectives will need to be addressed in the communications objectives. Brand awareness, brand preference and purchase intention are almost always included as advertising objectives.\n\nA firm's advertising budget is a sub-set of its overall budget. For many firms, the cost of advertising is one of the largest expenses, second only to wages and salaries. Advertising expenditure varies enormously according to firm size, market coverage, managerial expectations and even managerial style. Procter and Gamble, the top US advertiser, spent US$4.3 billion in 2015 on national media (exclusive of agency fees and production costs) while a small local advertiser might spend just a few thousand dollars in the same period.\n\nThe size of the budget has implications for the promotional mix, the media mix and market coverage. As a generalisation, very large budgets are required to sustain national television campaigns. Advertisers with tight budgets may forced to use less effective media alternatives. However, even advertisers with small budgets may be able to incorporate expensive main media, by focusing on narrow geographic markets, buying spots in non-peak time periods and carefully managing advertising schedules.\n\nA number of different methods are used to develop the advertising (and/or marketing communications) budget. The most commonly used methods are: percentage-of-sales, objective and task, competitive parity method, market share method, unit sales method, all available funds method and the affordable method.\n\nUsing the percentage-of-sales method, the advertiser allocates a fixed percentage (say 5% or 10%) of forecast sales value to the advertising budget. This method is predicated on the assumption that advertising causes future sales volume. The percentage of sales method is the easiest method to use and for this reason remains one of the most widely used methods for setting budgets.\n\nA major problem with the %-of-sales method is that there is no consensus about the percentage value to apply. Some companies use industry averages as a guide to set their marcomms budget. The following table, based on industry averages, shows that the % value can vary from around 20% of sales to less than 1 percent.\n\nThe objective and task method is the most rational and defensible of all budgeting methods. In this method, the advertiser determines the advertising objectives and then defines specific, measurable communication tasks that will need to be undertaken to achieve the desired objectives. Cost estimates are developed for each communication task in order to arrive at a total budget estimate. This method is time-consuming and complex, and as a consequence has been less widely used in practice, however, recent research suggests that more marketers are taking up this approach.\n\nThe competitive parity method allocates the advertising or promotional budget based on competitive spending for comparable activities. This approach is a defensive strategy used to protect a brand market position. It assumes that rival firms have similar objectives and is widely used in highly competitive markets. The main criticism of this method is that it assumes competitors know what they are doing in relation to advertising expenditure.\n\nThere are several approaches to using the competitive parity method:\n\nCompetitive parity requires a detailed understanding of competitor's expenditure in key areas. Market intelligence used to inform this approach can be obtained by consulting company annual reports and also from commercial research service providers such as Nielsen's AdEx.\n\nOther methods used to set advertising and promotional budgets include the \"market share method\", \"unit sales method\", \"all available funds method\", \"affordable method\", \"marginal analysis\" and others. Contemporary budgeting rarely relies on a single method, but instead uses a combination of methods to guide the marketer in determining the optimal expenditure levels.\n\nThe creative strategy is also known as the \"message strategy.\" The creative strategy explains how the advertising campaign will address the advertising objectives. Developing the creative strategy typically begins by identifying the big idea (also known as the \"creative concept\" that will establish the intended product position in the minds of the customer. Another way of thinking about the creative concept is that it refers to the one thing that will make consumers respond. The creative concept should show how the product benefit meets the customer's needs or expectations in a unique way.\n\nLaskey et al. developed a typology of nine creative strategies. Initially devised for television, this typology has been widely adopted for other media including print media and social media.\n\nLaskey, Day and Crask's typology first identifies two broad classes of creative strategy:\n\nInformational appeals typically involve factual claims that list the product's benefits in a straightforward manner and are more likely to be used with high involvement goods. Transformational appeals play on emotions and are designed to transform the consumer's perceptions of themselves or of the product. Transformational appeals are more likely to be indicated for low-involvement goods or services. Emotional appeals are often known as a \"soft-sell\" approach. Because they bypass rational cognitive processing, transformational appeals are less likely to result in counter-arguing in the consumer's mind.\n\nIn addition to determining the overall creative strategy, the advertiser also needs to consider the creative execution – which refers to the way that the message is presented. Examples of creative execution include: problem-solution formats, fear appeals, sex appeals, humour, parody, slogans or jingles, mnemonics, slice-of-life, guarantee, celebrity endorsement, testimonial, news style, scientific appeals, dramatisation and product demonstration.\n\nStrategic media planning consists of four key decision areas:\n\nThe traditional approach to media strategy was primarily concerned with setting objectives for message reach, weight and frequency. The contemporary approach, however, often treats the media strategy as an extension of the creative strategy. For example, L'Oreal Men's Expert promoted its skincare range on dry-cleaner hangers. When customers picked up their shirt, they found a $2 coupon and a message, \"Your shirt doesn't come with wrinkles, why should your face?\" This novel execution shows how media and creative can be integrated to generate powerful advertising.\n\nIn terms of setting media objectives, the planner needs to address several key decisions:\n\n\nA number of key definitions are essential for media planning purposes:\n\nWith respect to reach objectives, planners must decide what proportion of the target market need to be exposed to the advertising message. It is not always be necessary to reach 100% of the target market. For new brands or brands with very low levels of awareness, it may be desirable to reach every member of the target market. However, for reminder type campaigns lower levels of reach may be all that is required. Reach objectives are normally framed in terms of a percentage of market. For example, a reach objective might read; \"To reach 50% of women aged 18-25 years.\"\n\nWith respect to frequency objectives, the planner must determine the optimal level of frequency in order to achieve the desired communications objective. Media planners often work with rules of thumb for setting frequency objectives that are based on an extensive body of evidence drawn from research findings. For example, empirical evidence suggests that the average consumer needs to be exposed to a message at least three times before they become aware of the brand information. This is sometimes known as the \"3+ Rule\". To this basic benchmark of three exposures, media planners recognise that to achieve higher-level communication goals, such as persuasion and lead generation, higher levels of frequency are required. To achieve simple brand awareness, three exposures may be sufficient, but for consumers to act on that awareness, higher levels of exposure may be required. Some theorists have developed sophisticated decision models to assist with planning optimal frequency levels.\n\nPlanners also need to consider the combined effects of reach and frequency (GRPs). In an intensive campaign, the schedule will utilise both broad reach (expose more people to the message) and high frequency (expose people multiple times to the message). The overall campaign weight has implications for budgets and for media selection. In an intensive campaign (heavy weight campaign), the media strategy is normally skewed towards main media, which remains the most cost efficient means of reaching large audiences with the relatively high frequency needed to create stable brand awareness levels.\n\nThe first channel decision that needs to be made is whether to use a \"concentrated\" channel strategy or a \"dispersion\" channel strategy:\n\n\nWith reach and frequency objectives firmly in place, the planner turns to determining the media mix and selecting appropriate media vehicles to carry the message. The media planner must determine the way that the advertising budget is to be allocated across the relevant media options (e.g. 50% TV; 30% Mags; 15% Digital and 5% Out-of-home). To make these decisions, the planner requires a detailed understanding of the target market and its media usage habits. Accordingly, the design of the media channel strategy requires a rich understanding of the media options and what each type of media can accomplish in terms of audience reach and engagement.\n\nMedia audience research is a central feature of media planning. The main purpose of media research is \"to eliminate waste in advertising by objectively analysing the media available for promoting products and services\". Identifying and profiling the audience for print media, broadcast media, cinema and online media magazine or newspaper is a specialized form of market research, often conducted on behalf of media owners. In most nations, the advertising industry, via its peak industry associations, endorses a single media research company as the official provider of audience measurement for main media. The methodology used by the official provider then becomes known as the \"industry currency\" in audience measurement. Industry members fund the audience research and share the findings. In a few countries, where the industry is more fragmented or where there is no clear peak industry association, two or more competing organisations may provide audience measurement services. In such countries, there is said to be no industry currency.\n\nResearch companies employ different methodologies depending on where and when media is used and the cost of data collection. All these methods involve sampling – that is taking a representative sample of the population and recording their media usage which is then extrapolated to the general population. Media owners typically share research findings with prospective advertisers, while selected findings are available to the general public via the media research company or an entity, such as a broadcast commission, established to administer the audience research process.\n\nMedia research acts as form of industry regulation and the legitimacy of research methodologies and provision of audience metrics. Media owners rely on metrics of both audience size and audience quality to set advertising rates.\n\nMeasures of media audience that are of especial interest to advertisers include:\n\nPrint Media\n\nBroadcast Media\n\nOut-of-home media\n\nInternet and digital media\n\nAlthough much of the audience research data is only available to subscribers and prospective advertisers, basic information is published for the general public, often as topline survey findings. The type and depth of freely available information varies across geographic markets. The following table provides principal sources of information for main media audience research in English speaking markets.\n\nWhile it is certainly possible for advertisers to purchase advertising spots by dealing directly with media owners (e.g. newspapers, magazines or broadcast networks), in practice most media buying is purchased as part of broader negotiations. Prices depend on the advertiser's prior relationship with the network, the volume of inventory being purchased, the timing of the booking and whether the advertiser is using cross-media promotions such as product placements. Advertising spots purchased closer to air-time tend to be more expensive.\n\nMany advertisers opt to centralise their media buying through large media agencies such as Zenith or Optimedia. These large media agencies are able to exert market power through volume purchasing by buying up space for an entire year. Media agencies benefit advertisers by providing advertising units at lower rates and also through the provision of added value services such as media planning services.\n\nBuying advertising spots on national TV is very expensive. Given that most media outlets use dynamic pricing, rates vary from day to day, creating difficulties locating indicative rates. However, from time to time, trade magazines publish adrates which may be used as a general guide. The following table provides indicative advertising rates for selected popular programs on American national television networks, broadcast during prime time viewing hours.\nNotes:\n\nA media schedule is a program or plan that \"identifies the media channels used in an advertising campaign, and specifies insertion or broadcast dates, positions, and duration of the messages\".\n\nBroadly, there are four basic approaches to scheduling:\n\nEmpirical support for the effectiveness of pulsing is relatively weak. However, research suggests that continuous schedules and flighted schedules generally result in strong levels of consumer recall. With flighted schedules, the second and subsequent flights tend to build on the first flight, resulting in awareness levels similar to a continuous schedule, but often with reduced costs.\n\nA major consideration in constructing media schedules is timing. The advertiser's main is to place the advertisement as close as practical to the point where consumers make their purchase decision. For example, an advertiser who knows that a grocery buyer does a main shop on Saturday afternoons and a top-up shop on Wednesday nights, may consider TV to achieve general brand awareness, supplemented with radio spots to reach the shopper while he or she is driving to the supermarket or regular place of purchase on the days when the majority of consumers carry out their shopping.\n\nAdvertising is a major expense for most firms. Improved advertising effectiveness can deliver strategic and tactical advantages as well as helping to manage costs. Advertising managers are expected to be accountable for advertising budgets. Hence, most campaigns invest in a number of measures to evaluate whether advertising budgets are being well-spent and to assess whether the campaign requires improvement and, if necessary, to fine-tune campaigns in order to achieve the desired advertising effects. The main aim of effectiveness testing is to improve consumer response rates.\n\nBroadly, there are two classes of effectiveness testing: Tracking refers to a combination of both pre-testing and post-testing in order to provide continuous monitoring of advertising effects.\n\nSound pre-testing exhibits the following characteristics:\n\nSpecific types of pre-testing include copy tests, projective techniques and increasingly, a diverse range of physiological and/or biometric testing methods.\n\nCopy testing is testing that evaluates advertising copy and creative executions. In this section, the principal methods of copy testing are briefly discussed.\n\nResearchers often use mock-ups of the final creative with varying degrees of finished artwork. Some mock-ups are only intended to be seen by the advertising agency and client during the advertising concept development stage. However, mock-ups are useful for gauging audience response to the proposed advertising copy. Mock-ups can be used in face-to-face interviews, small focus groups or theatre tests. A sample of respondents is invited to look at the mock-ups and subsequently asked a series of questions designed to capture advertising effects that are of interest for the given campaign. \n\nTypes of advertising mock-ups that are used in copy testing, both print and broadcast advertising, include:\n\nIn projective techniques, the respondent is invited to project themselves into the advertisement. There are many projective techniques including word association, sentence completion and story completion. These techniques assume that when exposed to incomplete stimuli, respondents use underlying attitudes or motivations to complete the storyline, thereby revealing their fears and aspirations that may not surface under more direct questioning.\nProjective techniques have been found to be very useful for evaluating concepts and generating new concepts.\n\nFor decades, researchers have been using physiological measures to study such responses to advertising. These measures include such things as pupil response, electrode mal response (GSR) and heart rate. These measures have been shown to be effective measures of attention and the strength of emotional response. With the rise of consumer neuroscience, researchers have begun to use a much wider range of measures to investigate cognitive responses as well as emotional responses.\n\nSome of the techniques used to measure consumer responses to advertising stimuli include:\n\nThe amount of pupil dilation (also known as \"pupillometry\") is believed to provide a relatively precise measure of the amount of mental effort associated with a task. Pupil dilation tests became a staple of advertising copy testing during the 1970s as a way to test consumers' responses to television commercials. Pupil dilation suggests a stronger interest in the stimuli and can be associated with arousal and action. Pupil dilation is not only used to study advertising, but also used to investigate product and package design.\n\nWhile viewing an advertisement, a sensor aims a beam of infrared light at the eye and follows the movement to show the spot on which the viewer is focusing. This shows the length of time the viewer focuses on each element of the image and the general sequence used to interpret the image. Eye tracking is often used to fine tune advertising executions. Research studies suggest that eye tracking is associated with brand recognition, but less useful for brand recall.\n\nGalvanic skin response uses a device, called a galvanometer, which is very similar to a lie detector, designed to measure minute amounts of skin perspiration and electrical activity in the skin. Changes in skin response are associated with arousal and are an indicator of the advertisement's ability to capture attention.\n\nAn electroencephelograph (EEG) is a device that measures changes in brain-wave activity. EEG testing can detect emotional arousal which is difficult to detect using alternative testing methods. Arousal is an indicator of the advertisement's ability to grab attention and engage the consumer in the message. EEG testing is a cumbersome and invasive testing method which militates against routine use in advertising testing.\n\nFmRI is a technique that enables researchers to monitor activity in specific areas of the brain. This technique has been used to identify specific brain networks associated with pleasure and arousal associated with advertising.\n\nThe aim of post-testing is to provide indicators of how well a given campaign is achieving the desired communications objectives, so that corrective action and fine-tuning can occur during the campaign as well as to evaluate the effectiveness of advertising expenditure in order to provide benchmarks for future advertising programs. Techniques used in post-testing depend on the media employed, and may include such tests as Starch scores, day-after recall tests (DAR), campaign tracking, advertising ROI and other measures.\n\nStarch scores were developed by Daniel Starch in the 1920s to evaluate the copy effectiveness of print advertisements, and are still in use today. A consumer is shown a magazine page by page and subsequently asked whether they had noticed any part an advertisement. If they answer, 'Yes', the interviewer asks the respondent to indicate which parts of the ad were noticed. For each advertisement, three scores are calculated:\n\nDay-after-recall (DAR) tests were developed by George Gallup in the 1940s and are still used. DAR tests provide a measure of the percentage of the people who recall something specific about an ad (e.g., sales message or a visual) the day following exposure. Interviewers ask questions designed to elicit:\n\nAd tracking or campaign tracking refers to techniques used to monitor the \"in-market performance\" of advertising. Ad tracking uses a combination of pre-testing and post-testing. Pre-testing is used to establish benchmarks against which the actual performance of a campaign can be measured during and after the campaign has run. A particular area of concern during an advertising campaign is the problem of advertising \"wear-out\". When audiences are repeatedly exposed to the same message, the level of attention begins to plateau and eventually decays. Any further repetitions may cease to be noticed or may alienate target audiences. When wear-out occurs, additional advertising expenditure is simply wasted. One way that advertisers avoid wear-out is to use \"repetition with variation\" – that is, the use of different executions of the same message. Campaign tracking can assist advertisers to determine when to introduce a new execution of the same advertising message or to fine-tune the campaign.\n\nAdvertising return on investment (advertising ROI) is designed to ensure that the right advertising tactics were employed. Good measures of advertising ROI should consider both short term and long term measures. Online campaigns and co-operative advertising are useful for building sales, while television and PR are essential to long-term brand building and customer loyalty.\n\nAdvertising management is a career path in the advertising or marketing industries. Advertising and promotions managers may work for an agency, a public relations firm, a media outlet, or may be hired directly by a company to work in their in-house agency where they would take responsibility for communications designed to develop the company's brands or group of brands. In the agency environment, advertising managers are often known as \"account managers\" and their role involves working closely with client firms. In a marketing department, the advertising manager's position can include supervising employees, acting as a liaison between multiple agencies working on a project, or creating and implementing promotional campaigns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14005918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005918", "title": "Allegations of CIA assistance to Osama bin Laden", "text": "Allegations of CIA assistance to Osama bin Laden\n\nA commonly expressed belief states that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had ties with Osama Bin Laden's al-Qaeda and its \"Afghan Arab\" fighters when it armed Mujahideen groups to fight the Soviet Union during the Soviet–Afghan War.\n\nIn mid-1979, about the same time as the \"Soviet deployment\" into Afghanistan, the United States began giving several hundred million dollars a year in aid to the Afghan Mujahideen insurgents fighting the Afghan Marxist government and the Soviet Army in Operation Cyclone. Along with native Afghan mujahideen were Muslim volunteers from other countries, popularly known as \"Afghan Arabs\". The most famous of the Afghan Arabs was Osama bin Laden, known at the time as a wealthy and pious Saudi who provided his own money and helped raise millions from other wealthy Gulf Arabs.\n\nAs the war neared its end, bin Laden organized the al-Qaeda organization to carry on armed jihad in other venues, primarily against the United States—the country that had helped fund the mujahideen against the Soviets.\n\nA number of commentators have described Al-Qaeda attacks as \"blowback\" or an unintended consequence of American aid to the mujahideen. In response, the American government, American and Pakistani intelligence officials involved in the operation, and at least one journalist (Peter Bergen) have denied this theory. They maintain the aid was given out by the Pakistan government, that it went to Afghan not foreign mujahideen, and that there was no contact between the Afghan Arabs (foreign mujahideen) and the CIA or other American officials, let alone arming, training, coaching or indoctrination.\n\nThe Central Intelligence Agency helped Osama bin Laden build an underground camp at Khost, which bin Laden used to train Mujahideen soldiers. The United States would later attack this camp when bin Laden was held responsible for the United States embassy bombings in Africa.\n\nIn a 2004 article entitled \"Al-Qaeda's origins and links\", the BBC wrote:\nDuring the anti-Soviet war Bin Laden and his fighters received American and Saudi funding. Some analysts believe Bin Laden himself had security training from the CIA.\nRobin Cook, Foreign Secretary in the UK from 1997–2001, believed the CIA had provided arms to the Arab mujahideen, including Osama bin Laden, writing, \"Bin Laden was, though, a product of a monumental miscalculation by western security agencies. Throughout the '80s he was armed by the CIA and funded by the Saudis to wage war against the Russian occupation of Afghanistan.\"\n\nIn conversation with former British Defence Secretary Michael Portillo, two-time Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto said Osama bin Laden was initially pro-American. Prince Bandar bin Sultan of Saudi Arabia, has also stated that bin Laden once expressed appreciation for the United States' help in Afghanistan. On CNN's Larry King program he said:\nBandar bin Sultan: This is ironic. In the mid-'80s, if you remember, we and the United - Saudi Arabia and the United States were supporting the Mujahideen to liberate Afghanistan from the Soviets. He [Osama bin Laden] came to thank me for my efforts to bring the Americans, our friends, to help us against the atheists, he said the communists. Isn't it ironic?\n\nLarry King: How ironic. In other words, he came to thank you for helping bring America to help him.\n\nBandar bin Sultan: Right.\n\nU.S. government officials and a number of other parties maintain that the U.S. supported only the indigenous Afghan mujahideen. They deny that the CIA or other American officials had contact with Bin Laden and Al Qaeda, let alone armed, trained, coached or indoctrinated them. Many American scholars and reporters have called the idea of a CIA-backed Al Qaeda \"nonsense\", \"sheer fantasy\", and \"simply a folk myth.\"\n\nThey argue that:\n\nAl-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri says much the same thing in his book \"Knights Under the Prophet's Banner\".\n\nBin Laden himself once said \"The collapse of the Soviet Union ... goes to God and the mujahideen in Afghanistan ... the US had no mentionable role,\" but \"collapse made the US more haughty and arrogant.\"\n\nIn \"Ghost Wars\" (2004), Steve Coll recounted: \"Bin Laden moved within Saudi intelligence's compartmented operations, outside of CIA eyesight. CIA archives contain no record of any direct contact between a CIA officer and bin Laden during the 1980s.\"\n\nAccording to CNN journalist Peter Bergen, known for conducting the first television interview with Osama bin Laden in 1997, \"Bin Laden had his own money, he was anti-American and he was operating secretly and independently.\"\n\nBergen quotes Pakistani Brigadier Mohammad Yousaf, who ran the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Afghan operation between 1983 and 1987:\nIt was always galling to the Americans, and I can understand their point of view, that although they paid the piper they could not call the tune. The CIA supported the mujahideen by spending the taxpayers' money, billions of dollars of it over the years, on buying arms, ammunition, and equipment. It was their secret arms procurement branch that was kept busy. It was, however, a cardinal rule of Pakistan's policy that no Americans ever become involved with the distribution of funds or arms once they arrived in the country. No Americans ever trained or had direct contact with the mujahideen, and no American official ever went inside Afghanistan. \n\nMarc Sageman, a Foreign Service Officer who was based in Islamabad from 1987–1989, and worked closely with Afghanistan's Mujahideen, states that no American money went to the foreign volunteers.\n\nSageman also says:\nNo U.S. official ever came in contact with the foreign volunteers. They simply traveled in different circles and never crossed U.S. radar screens. They had their own sources of money and their own contacts with the Pakistanis, official Saudis, and other Muslim supporters, and they made their own deals with the various Afghan resistance leaders.\"\n\nVincent Cannistraro, who led the Reagan administration's Afghan Working Group from 1985 to 1987, puts it,\n\nThe CIA was very reluctant to be involved at all. They thought it would end up with them being blamed, like in Guatemala.\" So the Agency tried to avoid direct involvement in the war, ... the skittish CIA, Cannistraro estimates, had less than ten operatives acting as America's eyes and ears in the region. Milton Bearden, the Agency's chief field operative in the war effort, has insisted that \"[T]he CIA had nothing to do with\" bin Laden. Cannistraro says that when he coordinated Afghan policy from Washington, he never once heard bin Laden's name.\n\nFox News reporter Richard Miniter wrote that in interviews with the two men who \"oversaw the disbursement for all American funds to the anti-Soviet resistance, Bill Peikney—CIA station chief in Islamabad from 1984 to 1986—and Milt Bearden—CIA station chief from 1986 to 1989—he found,\nBoth flatly denied that any CIA funds ever went to bin Laden. They felt so strongly about this point that they agreed to go on the record, an unusual move by normally reticent intelligence officers. Mr. Peikney added in an e-mail to me: “I don’t even recall UBL [bin Laden] coming across my screen when I was there.\n\nOther reasons advanced for a lack of a CIA-Afghan Arab connection of \"pivotal importance,\" (or even any connection at all), was that the Afghan Arabs themselves were not important in the war but were a \"curious sideshow to the real fighting.\"\n\nOne estimate of the number of combatants in the war is that 250,000 Afghans fought 125,000 Soviet troops, but only 2000 Arab Afghans fought \"at any one time\".\n\nAccording to Milton Bearden the CIA did not recruit Arabs because there were hundreds of thousands of Afghans all too willing to fight. The Arab Afghans were not only superfluous but \"disruptive,\" angering local Afghans with their more-Muslim-than-thou attitude, according to Peter Jouvenal. Veteran Afghan cameraman Peter Jouvenal quotes an Afghan mujahideen as saying \"whenever we had a problem with one of them [foreign mujahideen], we just shot them. They thought they were kings.\"\n\nMany who traveled in Afghanistan, including Olivier Roy and Peter Jouvenal, reported of the Arab Afghans' visceral hostility to Westerners in Afghanistan to aid Afghans or report on their plight. BBC reporter John Simpson tells the story of running into Osama bin Laden in 1989, and with neither knowing who the other was, bin Laden attempting to bribe Simpson's Afghan driver $500—a large sum in a poor country—to kill the infidel Simpson. When the driver declined, Bin Laden retired to his \"camp bed\" and wept \"in frustration.\"\n\nSir Martin Ewans, noted that the Afghan Arabs \"benefited indirectly from the CIA's funding, through the ISI and resistance organizations,\" and that \"it has been reckoned that as many as 35,000 'Arab-Afghans' may have received military training in Pakistan at an estimated cost of $800 million in the years up to and including 1988.\" \n\nSome of the CIA's greatest Afghan beneficiaries were Arabist commanders such as Jalaluddin Haqqani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar who were key allies of Bin Laden over many years. Haqqani—one of Bin Laden's closest associates in the 1980s—received direct cash payments from CIA agents, without the mediation of the ISI (Charlie Wilson described Haqqani as \"goodness personified\"). This independent source of funding gave Haqqani disproportionate influence over the mujahideen, and helped Bin Laden develop his base.\n\nSheik Omar Abdel Rahman, an associate of Bin Laden's, was given his visas to enter the US on four separate occasions by the CIA. Rahman was recruiting Arabs to fight in the Soviet-Afghan war, and Egyptian officials testified that the CIA actively assisted him. Rahman was a co-plotter of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.\nOne allegation not denied by the US government is that the U.S. Army enlisted and trained a former Egyptian soldier named Ali Mohamed, and that it knew Ali occasionally took trips to Afghanistan, where he claimed to fight Russians. According to journalist Lawrence Wright who interviewed U.S. officials about Ali, the Egyptian did tell his Army superiors he was fighting in Afghanistan, but did not tell them he was training other Afghan Arabs or writing a manual from what he had learned from the US Army Special Forces. Wright also reports that the CIA failed to inform other US agencies that it had learned Ali, who was a member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, was an anti-American spy.\n\n"}
{"id": "32643543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32643543", "title": "Arafundi languages", "text": "Arafundi languages\n\nThe Arafundi languages are a small family of clearly related languages, namely \n\"Alfendio\" is an old synonym for \"Arafundi\", from when it was still considered a single language.\n\nLaycock (1973) grouped the Arafundi languages with the Ramu languages, although (according to his comments in the introduction) this grouping was apparently impressionistic and not based on either reconstructive work or lexicostatistics. Ross (2005) retains Laycock's grouping without comment. However, Foley (2005) does not include Arafundi within Ramu, and \"Ethnologue\" (2009) shows them as an independent family. Foley has suggested instead that the Arafundi and Piawi languages may be related (Comrie 1992), a position confirmed by Timothy Usher.\n\n"}
{"id": "22458368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22458368", "title": "Articulatory speech recognition", "text": "Articulatory speech recognition\n\nArticulatory speech recognition means the recovery of speech (in forms of phonemes, syllables or words) from acoustic signals with the help of articulatory modeling or an extra input of articulatory movement data. Speech recognition (or automatic speech recognition, acoustic speech recognition) means the recovery of speech from acoustics (sound wave) only. Articulatory information is extremely helpful when the acoustic input is in low quality, perhaps because of noise or missing data.\n\n"}
{"id": "28880473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28880473", "title": "Bariba language", "text": "Bariba language\n\nBariba, also known as Baatonum (also Baatombu, Baatonu, Barba, Barganchi, Bargawa, Bargu, Baruba, Berba, Bogung, and Burgu), is the language of the Bariba people of Benin and Nigeria and was the language of the state of Borgu. It is not closely related to neighbouring languages as a member of the Savannas branch of the Niger–Congo language family.\n\nBariba is a tonal language. Tonal patterns in Bariba have been claimed to present a challenge to the Two-Feature Model of tonal phonology.\n\n"}
{"id": "46682191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46682191", "title": "BulNet", "text": "BulNet\n\nThe Bulgarian WordNet (BulNet) is a lexical semantic network of Bulgarian following the Princeton WordNet (PWN) framework which implements the traditional semantic networks whose structure consists of nodes and relations between the nodes.\n\nBulNet was started within the EU-funded project BalkaNet - a Multilingual Semantic Network of the Balkan Languages directed to the construction of synchronized semantic databases for the following Balkan languages - Bulgarian, Greek, Romanian, Serbian, Turkish and the expansion of the Czech lexical-semantic network. After BalkaNet's completion the development of the Bulgarian WordNet has continued within the nationally-funded projects BulNet - a Lexical-semantic Network of Bulgarian (2005-2010) and Language E-resources and Processing Tools (2011-2013); the latter is co-funded under the project CESAR: Central and South-East European Resources (Information and Communication Technologies Policy Support Programme Call: CIP ICT-PSP-2010-4).\n\nCurrently the Bulgarian WordNet comprises more than 80,000 (as of April 15, 2015) synonym sets distributed into nine parts of speech - nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, pronouns, prepositions, conjunctions, particles and interjections. The words included in the Bulgarian WordNet have been selected according to different criteria, the main ones being frequency analysis of the word occurrences in large text corpora (taking account of the number of occurrences of citation forms and not of wordforms), as well as the inclusion of synsets already featuring in the wordnets of other languages and synsets that correspond to high-frequency word senses found in parallel corpora.\n\nEach synonym set - SYNSET encodes the relation of equivalence between a number of lexical items - LITERALS (at least one should be explicitly represented in the SYNSET), each of them having a unique meaning (specified by the value of SENSE) - which pertain to one and the same part of speech (specified as the value of POS) and represent one and the same lexical meaning (specified as the value of DEF). Each synset is linked to its counterpart in PWN 3.0 by means of a unique identification number - ID. The common synsets in the Balkan languages are marked as common concepts subsets - BCS. In a monolingual database a synset should be linked to at least one other synset through an intralingual relation. Non-obligatory information may also be encoded such as examples of usage, stylistic peculiarities, morphological or syntactic properties, author and last edit details.\n\nThe large number of relations encoded in the Bulgarian wordnet effectively illustrates the language's semantic and derivational richness that offers diverse opportunities for numerous applications of the multilingual database. The Bulgarian electronic semantic database offers linguistic solutions at the semantic level such as options for synonym selection, queries for semantic relations of a word in the language's lexical system (antonymy, holonymy, etc.), explanatory definition queries and translation equivalents for a lexical item. The Bulgarian wordnet is an electronic multilingual dictionary of synonym sets along with their explanatory definitions and sets of semantic relations with other words in the language.\n\nHydra is an OS-independent system designed for wordnet development, validation and exploration. The program enables users to browse and edit any number of monolingual wordnets at a time. The individual wordnets are synchronised, so that equivalent synonym sets, or synsets, may be viewed and explored in parallel.\n\nBulNet search engine\n\nHydra\n\nBulNet in META-SHARE\n\nBulSemCor - Bulgarian sense-annotated corpus\n\nBulNC: Bulgarian National Corpus\n\n"}
{"id": "7353443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7353443", "title": "Chava Rosenfarb", "text": "Chava Rosenfarb\n\nChava Rosenfarb (9 February 1923 – 30 January 2011) (, ) was a Holocaust survivor and Jewish-Canadian author of Yiddish poetry and novels, a major contributor to post-World War II Yiddish Literature. Rosenfarb began writing poetry at the age of eight.\n\nAfter surviving the Łódź Ghetto during the occupation of Poland by Nazi Germany, Rosenfarb was deported to Auschwitz, and then sent with other women to a work camp at Sasel (subcamp of Neuengamme concentration camp), where she built houses for the bombed out Germans of Hamburg. Towards the end of war she was sent to Bergen-Belsen, where she fell ill with nearly-fatal typhus fever in April 1945. After the end of the war, while still in Europe, Rosenfarb married the future nationally-famous Canadian abortion activist Dr. Henry Morgentaler (the two divorced in 1975). In 1950, she and Morgentaler emigrated to Canada. Morgentaler and Rosenfarb, pregnant with Goldie, their daughter, emigrated from Europe to Canada, landing in Montréal in the winter of 1950, to a reception of Yiddish writers at Windsor Station.\n\nRosenfarb continued to write in Yiddish. She published three volumes of poetry between 1947 and 1965. In 1972, she published what is considered to be her masterpiece, \"Der boim fun lebn\" (דער בוים פֿון לעבן), a three-volume novel detailing her experiences in the Łódź Ghetto, which appeared in English translation as \"The Tree of Life\". Her other novels are \"Botshani\" (באָטשאַני), a prequel to \"The Tree of Life\", which was issued in English as two volumes, \"Bociany\" (meaning Storks in the Polish language) and \"Of Lodz and Love\"; and \"Briv tsu Abrashen\" (בריוו צו אבראשען), or Letters to Abrasha (not yet translated).\n\nRosenfarb's readership decreased as the secular Yiddish culture in the Americas began to erode and assimilate, so she turned to translation. She was a regular contributor to the Yiddish literary journal \"Di Goldene Keyt\" (די גאָלדענע קייט) – meaning, roughly translated, \"The Golden Chain (of Generations)\" – edited in Tel Aviv by the poet and Vilna Ghetto survivor Abraham Sutzkever, until it closed. A collection of her stories in English translation, \"Survivors: Seven Short Stories\", was published in 2004. A play, \"The Bird of the Ghetto\", was performed in Hebrew translation in Israel by Israel's nation theatre, the Habimah, in 1966 and in English translation in Toronto by Theshold Theatre in 2012. A selection of her poetry was published in English in 2013 as \"Exile at Last\". Most of the poems were translated by Rosenfarb herself.\n\nShe died on 30 January 2011 in Lethbridge, Alberta. Her daughter, Goldie Morgentaler, is a professor of English literature at the University of Lethbridge as well as a prominent literary translator into English of her mother's work. Her son Abraham is a doctor in Boston and the author of several books on urology and men's health.\n\nRosenfarb was the recipient of numerous international literary prizes, including the Manger Prize, Israel's highest award for Yiddish literature, as well as a Canadian Jewish Book Award and the John Glassco Prize for Literary Translation. She was awarded an honorary degree by the University of Lethbridge in 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13764268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13764268", "title": "Cibak language", "text": "Cibak language\n\nCibak (variously rendered \"Chibuk, Chibok, Chibbak, Chibbuk, Kyibaku, Kibbaku, Kikuk\") is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken by about 200,000 people in Nigeria.\n\nCibak is spoken in Askira/Uba, Chibok and Damboa local government areas in the south of Borno State in Nigeria. The majority of speakers are Christian; most of the schoolgirls abducted in the 2014 Chibok kidnapping by Boko Haram were Cibak-speakers.\n"}
{"id": "31413011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31413011", "title": "Cormac Ó Domhnalláin", "text": "Cormac Ó Domhnalláin\n\nCormac Ó Domhnalláin, Ollamh Síol Muireadaigh\", died 1436.\n\nThe Annals of Connacht state:\n\n\"1436:Cormac O Domnallain, ollav of the Sil Murray in Poetry, died.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "461564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461564", "title": "Deep-throating", "text": "Deep-throating\n\nDeep-throating is a sexual act in which a person takes a partner's entire erect penis deep into the mouth and throat. The practice is a type of fellatio where the receptive partner (the one whose mouth receives the penis) is in control, while deep throat penetration by an actively thrusting partner is called irrumatio; both are a form of oral sex. For deep-throating, the penis has to be long enough so that it can reach the back of the recipient's throat.\n\nThe technique and term were popularized by the 1972 pornographic film \"Deep Throat\".\n\nDeep-throating can be difficult, due to the natural gag reflex triggered when the soft palate is touched. Different people have different sensitivities to the reflex, and with practice, some people learn to suppress it. Deep-throating leads to an entirely different kind of oral stimulation in comparison to regular fellatio: the tongue is immobilized during deep-throating and sucking becomes impossible; the glans penis can be intensely stimulated by the tightness of the pharynx.\n\nThere are several positions that are well suited for performing deep throat. Relaxation of the throat muscles is the most important aspect of positioning. \n\nOne common position is to align the mouth and throat into a straight line (like a sword swallower), but many different positions are possible. \n\n\"Over-the-edge\" is a common position for deep-throating. In this position, the receptive partner lies back and hangs his or her head off the edge of a bed or similar piece of furniture, and the insertive partner stands or kneels in front of the face, lining up his penis at mouth level. \n\nAnother common position used for deep-throating involves the insertive partner sitting on the receptive partner's chest, with his penis in front of the face.\n"}
{"id": "44970384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44970384", "title": "Electrical transcription", "text": "Electrical transcription\n\nElectrical transcriptions are special phonograph recordings made exclusively for radio broadcasting, which were widely used during the \"Golden Age of Radio\". They provided material—from station-identification jingles and commercials to full-length programs—for use by local stations, which were affiliates of one of the radio networks.\n\nPhysically, electrical transcriptions look much like long-playing records that were popular for decades. They differ from consumer-oriented recordings, however, in that they were \"distributed to radio stations for the purpose of broadcast, and not for sale to the public... The ET had higher quality audio than was available on consumer records\" largely because they had less surface noise than commercial recordings.\n\nElectrical transcriptions were made practical by the development of electrical recording, which superseded Thomas Edison's original purely mechanical recording method in the mid-1920s. Marsh Laboratories in Chicago began issuing electrical recordings on its obscure Autograph label in 1924, but it was Western Electric's superior technology, adopted by the leading labels Victor and Columbia in 1925, which launched the then-new microphone-based method into general use in the recording industry.\n\nFreeman Gosden and Charles Correll are credited with being the first to produce electrical transcriptions. In 1928, they began distributing their \"Amos 'n' Andy\" program to stations other than their 'home' station, WMAQ in Chicago, by using 12-inch 78 RPM discs that provided two five-minute segments with a commercial break between.\n\nOne audio historian wrote: \"new methods of electronic reproduction and improved record material that produced very little background noise were developed … by the end of the decade, the use of old phonograph music had largely been replaced by the new electrical transcription ... with the fidelity available, it was difficult to tell a transcription from the original artist.\" A 1948 ad for a disc manufacturer touted the use of transcriptions on the Voice of America, saying; \"a substantial part of these daily programs is recorded and, due to the excellent quality of these transcriptions, such recorded portions cannot be distinguished from the \"live\" transmissions.\"\n\nElectrical transcriptions were often used for recording programs in old-time radio. Using a recording speed of 33 revolutions per minute (in contrast to the 78 RPM speed that was then standard for records for home use), 15 minutes of material could be stored on one side of a typical 16-inch diameter transcription. In contrast, commercially available 78 RPM records lasted for only 3–4 minutes per side and \"had very poor frequency response.\"\n\nWOR in New York City was one of the first radio stations to broadcast transcriptions, starting in 1929. Other stations followed, until more than 100 were doing so, largely because \"this new kind of recording made programming more flexible and improved sound.\" Dr. John R. Brinkley is generally credited with being the first performer to provide electrical transcriptions to radio stations. Brinkley's use of the then-new technology arose out of necessity when agencies of the federal government prevented him from crossing from Mexico into the United States to use telephone lines to connect to U.S. stations remotely. \"Brinkley began recording ... onto electrical transcription discs and sending them across the border for later broadcast.\"\n\nWOR used transcriptions for repeat broadcasts of programs. In 1940, for example, the station repeated episodes of Glenn Miller's and Kay Kyser's orchestras, \"The Goldbergs\" and \"Sherlock Holmes\".\n\n\"Electrical transcriptions were indispensable from the mid '30s to the late '40s,\" wrote Dr. Walter J. Beaupre, who worked in radio before moving into academia.\n\nAs radio stations' demand for transcriptions grew, companies specializing in transcriptions grew to meet those demands. In October 1933, 33 companies competed in producing transcriptions. Such companies included Langlois & Wentworth, Inc., RCA Thesaurus, SESAC, World Broadcasting System and Ziv Company. Associated Broadcasting Company transcription service, a former division of the Muzak Corporation (Muzak sold its Manhattan studios, but not transcription service, to RCA Victor in 1951) Subscribing to a major transcription service meant a station received an initial group of transcriptions plus periodically issued new discs and a license, which allowed use of the material on-air. Typically, a station did not own the discs; \"they were leased for as long as [the] station paid the necessary fees.\" Those fees typically ranged from $40 to $150 per week for eight 15-minute programs.\n\nCustomers for transcriptions were primarily smaller stations. Brewster and Broughton, in their book \"Last Night a DJ Saved My Life,\" wrote; (transcriptions) \"lessened the reliance on the announcer/disc jockey and, because [a transcription] was made specifically for broadcast, it avoided record company litigation.\" They quoted Ben Selvin, who worked for a transcription company, as saying, \"Most stations could not afford the orchestras and productions that went into the network radio shows, and so we supplied nearly 300 stations with transcriptions that frequently -— but not always — featured the most popular bands and vocalists.\" A slogan used in an advertisement for one transcription service might well have been applied to the industry as a whole, \"TRANSCRIBED .. so that advertisers everywhere may have 'radio at its commercial best.'\"\n\nA 1948 ad for the transcription service World Broadcasting System contained a letter which praised the company. S.A. Vetter, assistant to the owner of WWPB, AM and FM stations in Miami, Florida. wrote; \"you will be interested in knowing that I consider the purchase of the World Feature Library as the best 'buy' I have made in my twenty-one years in Miami radio.\" The popularity of at least one library was indicated in another 1948 ad. One for Standard Radio Transcription Services, Inc. ad boasted of its Standard Program Library as; \"now serving over 700 stations.\" That same year, an ad for another transcription service, World Broadcasting System, said, \"over 640 stations now use this great world library.\" Another supply company, Associated Program Service, advertised its transcription library as being \"not the usual one-shot recording date … not the routine disc or two … but real continuity of performance … a dependable, steady supply of fresh music … great depth of titles.\"\n\nAmong the companies providing transcription services were radio networks. NBC began its electrical transcription service in 1934. Lloyd C. Egner, manager of electrical transcriptions at NBC wrote that with the NBC Syndicated Recorded Program Service (later named the RCA/NBC Thesaurus Library) the company sought \"to make available to stations associated with NBC our extensive programming resources to help in the sale of their facilities to local advertisers.\" He added: \"each program series … will be as completely programmed as if it were to be for a network client. In other words they will be designed to sell a sponsor's product or service.\" A 1948 ad for NBC's service touted; \"now 25 better shows tailored for better programming at lower cost,\" adding that the company's material was \"programmed and proven over 1000 radio stations.\" CBS also had a transcription division, Columbia Recording Corporation.\n\nCapitol Records, better known for its popular recordings, also had a transcription service. An ad in the trade publication \"Broadcasting\" asked in a headline if the reader was \"finding it tough to sell time?\" The ad's text promoted 3,000 selections – with more added monthly – from Peggy Lee, Jan Garber, Johnny Mercer and other \"top stars,\" adding, \"more than 300 stations already use it.\"\n\nOne source estimated; \"by the end of the 1930s, [transcription] services had built up a market of $10 million.\"\n\nTranscription services' programming was not limited to music. Mystery, drama and other genres of programming were distributed via transcription. At least two transcribed dramas, \"I Was a Communist for the FBI\" and \"Bold Venture\", were distributed to more than 500 stations each. NBC's transcription offerings included \"Aunt Mary\" (a soap opera), \"The Haunting Hour\" (a psychological mystery), \"The Playhouse of Favorites\" (a drama) and \"Modern Romances\".\n\nAdvertisers found electrical transcriptions useful for distributing their messages to local stations. Spot advertising is said to have begun in the 1930s. \"The spot announcements were easily produced and distributed throughout the country via electrical transcription\" as an alternative to network advertising. In 1944, the spot jingle segment of transcriptions was estimated to have an annual value of $10 million.\n\nTranscriptions proved advantageous for performers, especially musicians in the Big-Band Era. Using transcriptions helped them reach one audience via radio while making personal appearances in front of other audiences. Additionally, if more stations used their transcriptions, that increased the audience for their music even more. An item in a 1946 issue of \"Radio Mirror\" magazine noted: \"Bing Crosby's transcription deal with Philco has started a rush of other sought-after radio performers for deals of a similar nature. Their advantages from such a setup include more free time and corporate setups to relieve their tax costs.\"\n\nRecording commercial jingles for spot announcements was a source of income for performers and writers. In 1944, Cliff Edwards received $1,500 for recording a 30-second gum jingle.\n\nWorld War II brought a new use for electrical transcriptions—storage of audio material for broadcasting to people in the military. The American Forces Network began using ETs during that war and continued using them through 1998. More than 300,000 AFRTS electrical transcription discs are stored in a collection at the Library of Congress.\n\nTranscriptions \"were often used for ... government-issued programs which were sent to the individual stations for broadcast on designated dates. Recruiting shows for the branches of military service arrived on such discs ... the United States Government shipped many programs during wartime as transcriptions.\"\n\nDuring the war, the federal government, in conjunction with the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System, provided \"approximately eight 15-minute transcribed programs every week to each of ... 35 college stations.\" The United States Department of War, United States Department of the Navy, United States Department of the Treasury and United States Office of Education contributed to production of programs related to the war effort, such as \"The Treasury Star Parade\" and \"You Can't Do Business with Hitler\".\n\nThe Voice of America also used transcriptions, with one disc manufacturer noting in an ad, \"A substantial part of these daily programs is recorded ...\"\n\nThe network ban on prerecorded material was temporarily lifted on the occasion of the crash of the airship Hindenburg in Lakehurst, New Jersey on 6 May 1937. A recording of the crash made for Chicago radio station WLS by announcer Herbert Morrison was allowed to be broadcast over the network by NBC. This is the well-known \"oh, the humanity!\" recording, usually heard only as a brief excerpt and reproduced at a speed which differs significantly from the original recording speed, causing Morrison's voice to sound unnaturally high-pitched and excessively frantic. When heard in its entirety and at the correct speed, the report is still powerful.\n\nTranscription recordings from major American radio networks became commonplace during World War II as pressed vinyl copies of them were distributed worldwide by the U.S. Armed Forces Radio Service for rebroadcast to troops in the field. Disc-to-disc editing procedures were used to delete the commercials included in the original broadcasts, and when a sponsor's name was attached to the name of the program, it was removed as well—\"Lux Radio Theater\", for example, became \"Your Radio Theater\". Although the discs were government property and were supposed to be destroyed after they had served their purpose, some were saved as souvenirs and countless thousands of them were simply dumped rather than actually destroyed. Many of the dumped discs ended up in the hands of scavengers and collectors. Often, these discs are the only form in which the broadcasts on them have survived, and they are one of the reasons why recordings of entertainment broadcasts from the 1940s still exist in abundance.\n\nWell-known live broadcasts which were preserved on lacquer transcription discs include \"The War of the Worlds\" dramatized as breaking news by the Orson Welles anthology program \"The Mercury Theatre on the Air\", heard over the CBS radio network on 30 October 1938.\n\nBefore magnetic tape recorders became available in the U.S., NBC Symphony Orchestra concert broadcasts were preserved on transcription discs. After its conductor Arturo Toscanini retired, he transferred many of these recordings to tape, with the assistance of his son Walter, and most were eventually released on LP or CD.\n\nIn the United States, NBC Radio continued to use the 16-inch disc format for archiving purposes into the early 1970s.\n\nA transcription disc is a special phonograph record intended for, or recorded from, a radio broadcast. Sometimes called a broadcast transcription or radio transcription or nicknamed a platter, it is also sometimes just referred to as an electrical transcription, usually abbreviated to E.T. among radio professionals.\n\nTranscription discs are most commonly 16 inches (40 cm) in diameter and recorded at 33 1/3 rpm. That format was standard from approximately 1930 to 1960 and physically distinguishes most transcriptions from records intended for home use, which were rarely more than 12 inches (30 cm) in diameter and until 1948 were nearly all recorded at approximately 78 rpm. However, some very early (circa 1928-1931) radio programs were on sets of 12 inch or even 10 inch (25 cm) 78 rpm discs, and some later (circa 1960-1990) syndicated radio programs were distributed on 12 inch 33 1/3 rpm microgroove vinyl discs visually indistinguishable from ordinary records except by their label information.\n\nSome unusual records which are not broadcast-related are sometimes mistakenly described as \"transcription discs\" because they were recorded on the so-called acetate recording blanks used for broadcast transcriptions or share some other physical characteristic with them. Transcription discs should not be confused with the 16-inch 33 1/3 rpm shellac soundtrack discs used from 1926 into the early 1930s to provide the audio for some motion picture sound systems. Also a potential source of confusion are RCA Victor's \"Program Transcription\" discs, 10 or 12 inch 33 1/3 rpm records pressed in shellac and \"Victrolac\" vinyl in the early 1930s. Despite their suggestive name, they were not recorded from broadcasts or intended for broadcast use, but were an early and unsuccessful attempt to introduce longer-playing records at the 33 1/3 rpm speed for home use.\n\nTranscription discs are of two basic types: pressings and instantaneous discs.\n\nPressings were created in the same way as ordinary records. A master recording was cut into a blank wax or acetate disc. This was electroplated to produce a metal stamper from which a number of identical discs were pressed in shellac or vinyl in a record press. Although the earliest transcription discs were pressed in shellac, in the mid-1930s quieter vinyl compounds were substituted. These discs were used to distribute syndicated programming to individual radio stations. Their use for this purpose persisted long after the advent of magnetic tape recording because it was cheaper to cut and plate a master disc and press 100 identical high-quality discs than to make 100 equally high-quality tape dubs.\n\nInstantaneous discs are so called because they can be played immediately after recording without any further processing, unlike the delicate wax master discs which had to be plated and replicated as pressings before they could be played non-destructively. By late 1929, instantaneous recordings were being made by indenting, as opposed to engraving, a groove into the surface of a bare aluminum disc. The sound quality of these discs was inadequate for broadcast purposes, but they were made for sponsors and performers who wanted to have recordings of their broadcasts, a luxury which was impractically expensive to provide by the wax mastering, plating and pressing procedure. Only a very few pre-1930 live broadcasts were deemed important enough to preserve as pressings, and many of the bare aluminum discs perished in the scrap metal drives of World War II, so that these early years of radio are mostly known today by the syndicated programs on pressed discs, typically recorded in a small studio without an audience, rather than by recordings of live network and local broadcasts.\n\nIn late 1934, a new type of instantaneous disc was commercially introduced. It consisted of an aluminum core disc coated with black cellulose nitrate lacquer, although for reasons which are unclear it soon came to be called an \"acetate\" disc by radio professionals. Later, during World War II, when aluminum was a critical war material, glass core discs were used. A recording lathe and chisel-like cutting stylus like those used to record in wax would be used to engrave the groove into this lacquer surface instead. Given a top-quality blank disc, cutting stylus, lathe, electronics and recording engineer, the result was a virtually noiseless broadcast-quality recording which could be played several times before the effects of wear started to become apparent. The new medium was soon applied to a number of purposes by local stations, but not by the networks, which had a policy against broadcasting prerecorded material and mainly used the discs for archiving \"reference recordings\" of their broadcasts.\n\nStandard 16-inch transcription discs of the 1930s and 1940s usually held about 15 minutes of audio on each side, but this was occasionally pushed to as much as 20 minutes. Unlike ordinary records, some were recorded inside out, with the start of the recording near the label and the end near the edge of the disc. The label usually noted whether the disc was \"outside start\" or \"inside start\". If there was no such notation, an outside start was assumed. Beginning in the mid-1950s, some transcription discs started employing the \"microgroove\" groove dimensions used by the 12 and 10 inch 33 1/3 rpm vinyl LP records introduced for home use in 1948. This allowed 30 minutes to fit comfortably on each side of a 16-inch disc. These later discs can be played with an ordinary modern stylus or a vintage \"LP\" stylus. The earlier discs used a larger groove, nearer in size to the groove of a typical 78 rpm shellac record. Using a \"78\" stylus to play these \"standard groove\" discs usually produces much better results, and also insures against the groove damage that can be caused by the point of a too-small stylus skating around in the groove and scoring its surface. Some specialist audio transfer engineers keep a series of custom-ground styli of intermediate sizes and briefly test-play the disc with each in order to find the one that produces the best possible results.\n\nBeginning in the 1940s, two factors caused radio stations' use of transcriptions to diminish. After World War II, use of transcriptions diminished as disc jockeys became more popular. That increased popularity meant that stations began to use commercial recordings more than they had in the past. The trade magazine \"Billboard\" reported in a November 22, 1952, article, \"Transcription libraries have come upon rough times, owing to the fact that records have largely taken the place of the old-fashioned E.T.'s.\"\n\nIn the 1940s, decreased demand caused transcription services to reduce the royalty they paid copyright owners from $15 per tune per year to $10 per tune per year. By 1952, still less demand resulted in negotiations for a percentage of gross sales to replace the flat fee.\n\nBy late 1959, at least two transcription service companies had gone out of business, selling their libraries to a company that provided recorded background music on tapes and discs. The purchaser acquired a total of approximately 12,000 selections from the two companies.\n\nMagnetic tape and tape recorders became popular at radio stations after World War II, taking over the functions that in-house transcription disc recording had served. Tape's advantages included lower cost, higher fidelity, more recording time, possibility of re-use after erasing, and ease of editing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40607439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40607439", "title": "Factory second", "text": "Factory second\n\nFactory seconds, also known as factory rejects or simply seconds, are retail items which, through minor fault of manufacture, are sold to the public for a reduced rate, rather than being discarded. Such goods are often resold at this lower rate after failing the factory's quality inspection, being returned to the manufacturer's factory by the original retailer, or (less frequently) being returned to the retailer or wholesaler by the customer.\n\nThe amount of damage or fault in the manufacture which may constitute an item being resold as a second varies widely; in clothing, for example, it may simply refer to a single pulled thread or mis-sewn seam, whereas in a set of items (such as crockery) it may mean there is one piece missing from the set. Generally, an item listed as a factory second will have failed quality inspection for cosmetic, rather than functional, reasons. Such items are often heavily discounted, but may not have as all-encompassing a warranty or guarantee as a full-quality item (for example, the product may be non-returnable).\n\nDiscount stores often rely on the sale of factory seconds as a major part of their trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "365531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365531", "title": "Government and binding theory", "text": "Government and binding theory\n\nGovernment and binding (GB, GBT) is a theory of syntax and a phrase structure grammar in the tradition of transformational grammar developed principally by Noam Chomsky in the 1980s. This theory is a radical revision of his earlier theories and was later revised in \"The Minimalist Program\" (1995) and several subsequent papers, the latest being \"Three Factors in Language Design\" (2005). Although there is a large literature on government and binding theory which is not written by Chomsky, Chomsky's papers have been foundational in setting the research agenda.\n\nThe name refers to two central subtheories of the theory: \"government\", which is an abstract syntactic relation applicable, among other things, to the assignment of case; and \"binding\", which deals chiefly with the relationships between pronouns and the expressions with which they are co-referential. GB was the first theory to be based on the principles and parameters model of language, which also underlies the later developments of the minimalist program.\n\nThe main application of the \"government\" relation concerns the assignment of case. Government is defined as follows:\n\nA governs B if and only if\n\nGovernors are heads of the lexical categories (V, N, A, P) and tensed I (T). A m-commands B if A does not dominate B and B does not dominate A and the first maximal projection of A dominates B, where the maximal projection of a head X is XP. This means that for example in a structure like the following, A m-commands B, but B does not m-command A:\n\nIn addition, barrier is defined as follows: A barrier is any node Z such that\n\nThe government relation makes case assignment unambiguous. The tree diagram below illustrates how DPs are governed and assigned case by their governing heads:\n\nAnother important application of the government relation constrains the occurrence and identity of traces as the Empty Category Principle requires them to be properly governed.\n\nBinding can be defined as follows:\n\n\nConsider the sentence \"John saw his mother\", which is diagrammed below using simple phrase structure trees.\n\nThe NP \"John\" c-commands \"his\" because the first parent of the NP, S, contains \"his\". \"John\" and \"his\" are also coreferential (they refer to the same person), therefore \"John\" binds \"his\".\n\nOn the other hand, in the ungrammatical sentence \"*The mother of John likes himself\", \"John\" does not c-command \"himself\", so they have no binding relationship despite the fact that they corefer.\n\nThe importance of binding is shown in the grammaticality or ungrammaticality of the following sentences:\n\n\nBinding is used, along with particular binding principles, to explain the ungrammaticality of statements 1, 3, and 4. The applicable rules are called Binding Principle A, Binding Principle B, and Binding Principle C.\n\nSince \"himself\" is not c-commanded by \"John\" in sentence [3], Principle A is violated.\n\nIn sentence [1], \"him\" is bound by \"John\", violating Principle B.\n\nIn sentence [4], the first instance of \"John\" binds the second, violating Principle C.\n\nNote that Principles A and B refer to \"governing categories\"—domains which limit the scope of binding. The definition of a governing category laid out in \"Lectures on Government and Binding\" is complex, but in most cases the governing category is essentially the minimal clause or complex NP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4978332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4978332", "title": "Graduate assistant", "text": "Graduate assistant\n\nA graduate assistant is a person who serves in a support role (assistantship) at a university, usually while completing post-graduate education. The individual typically assists professors with instructional responsibilities as teaching assistants or with academic research responsibilities as research assistants, aids coaches with an athletic team, or is employed by other university departments (such as housing or academic advising). \n\nRather than receive hourly wages, GAs are often remunerated in the form of a stipend. Assistantships provide experience for graduate students, increasing their future employment options . \n\nGraduate assistantships are beneficial to the employing university as well because graduate assistants fill positions that would cost the university significantly more to fill with traditional employees.\n\nA stipend is a fixed sum of money paid periodically for services or to defray expenses. That remuneration is termed a \"fee\" or \"stipend\" rather than salary or wages is immaterial. The stipend allows for the graduate student to focus on their studies instead of a full-time job, but pays a significant portion of the income of a full-time job. A PhD graduate stipend is considered income in the United States. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "25748561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25748561", "title": "Graduate placement", "text": "Graduate placement\n\nThe term graduate placement is a statistic used by colleges, universities, and other schools to statistically report the successfulness of their graduated students to find a job in the student's chosen field of study.\n\nIt is generally used to indicate the efficacy of the teaching methods and educational opportunities for prospective students looking for a good school to spend their tuition money.\n"}
{"id": "53935625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53935625", "title": "History of Scottish Gaelic", "text": "History of Scottish Gaelic\n\nScottish Gaelic ( ), is a Celtic language native to Scotland. A member of the Goidelic branch of the Celtic languages, Scottish Gaelic, like Modern Irish and Manx, developed out of Middle Irish. Most of modern Scotland was once Gaelic-speaking, as evidenced especially by Gaelic-language placenames.\n\nIt is commonly accepted by scholars that Gaelic was brought to Scotland, probably in the 4th–5th centuries CE, by settlers from Ireland who founded the Gaelic kingdom of on Scotland's west coast in present-day Argyll. However, archaeologist Dr Ewan Campbell has argued that there is no archaeological or placename evidence of a migration or takeover. This view of the medieval accounts is shared by other archaeologists and historians.\n\nGaelic in Scotland was mostly confined to until the 8th century, when it began expanding into Pictish areas north of the Firth of Forth and the Firth of Clyde. This was spurred by the intermarriage of Gaelic and Pictish aristocratic families, the political merger of the two kingdoms in the early 9th century, and the common threat of attack by Norse invaders. By 900, Pictish appears to have become extinct, completely replaced by Gaelic. An exception might be made for the Northern Isles, however, where Pictish was more likely supplanted by Norse rather than by Gaelic. During the reign of (900–943), outsiders began to refer to the region as the kingdom of Alba rather than as the kingdom of the Picts, but we do not know whether this was because a new kingdom was established or because \"Alba\" was simply a closer approximation of the Pictish name for the Picts. However, though the Pictish language did not disappear suddenly, a process of Gaelicisation (which may have begun generations earlier) was clearly under way during the reigns of and his successors. By a certain point, probably during the 11th century, all the inhabitants of Alba had become fully Gaelicised Scots, and Pictish identity was forgotten.\n\nBy the 10th century, Gaelic had become the dominant language throughout northern and western Scotland, the Gaelo-Pictic Kingdom of Alba. Its spread to southern Scotland was less even and less complete. Place name analysis suggests dense usage of Gaelic in Galloway and adjoining areas to the north and west, as well as in West Lothian and parts of western Midlothian. Less dense usage is suggested for north Ayrshire, Renfrewshire, the Clyde Valley and eastern Dumfriesshire. This latter region is roughly the area of the old Kingdom of Strathclyde, which was annexed by the Kingdom of Alba in the early 11th century, but its inhabitants may have continued to speak Cumbric as late as the 12th century. In south-eastern Scotland, there is no evidence that Gaelic was ever widely spoken: the area shifted from Cumbric to Old English during its long incorporation into the Anglo-Saxon Kingdom of Northumbria. After the Lothians were conquered by Malcolm II at the Battle of Carham in 1018, the elites spoke Gaelic and continued to do so until about 1200. However commoners retained Old English.\n\nWith the incorporation of Strathclyde and the Lothians, Gaelic reached its social, cultural, political, and geographic zenith in Scotland. The language in Scotland had been developing independently of the language in Ireland at least as early as its crossing the (\"Spine\" or \"ridge of Britain\", its location is not known) into Pictland. The entire country was for the first time being referred to in Latin as ', and Gaelic was recognised as the '.\n\nMany historians mark the reign of King Malcolm Canmore (Malcolm III) as the beginning of Gaelic's decline in Scotland. In either 1068 or 1070, the king married the exiled Princess Margaret of Wessex. This future Saint Margaret of Scotland was a member of the royal House of Wessex, which had occupied the English throne from its founding until the Norman Conquest. Margaret was thoroughly Anglo-Saxon, and is often credited (or blamed) for taking the first significant steps in anglicising the Scottish court. She spoke no Gaelic, gave her children Anglo-Saxon rather than Gaelic names, and brought many English bishops, priests, and monastics to Scotland. Her family also served as a conduit for the entry of English nobles into Scotland. When both Malcolm and Margaret died just days apart in 1093, the Gaelic aristocracy rejected their anglicised sons and instead backed Malcolm's brother Donald as the next King of Scots. Known as Donald (\"the Fair\"), the new king had lived 17 years in Ireland as a young man, and his power base as an adult was in the thoroughly Gaelic west of Scotland. Upon Donald's accession to the throne, in the words of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", \"the Scots drove out all the English who had been with King Malcolm\". Malcolm's sons fled to the English court, but in 1097 returned with an Anglo-Norman army backing them. Donald was overthrown, blinded, and imprisoned for the remaining two years of his life. Because of the strong English ties of Malcolm's sons Edgar, Alexander, and David – each of whom became king in turn – Donald is sometimes called the \"last Celtic King of Scotland\". He was the last Scottish monarch to be buried on Iona, the one-time centre of the Scottish Gaelic Church and the traditional burial place of the Gaelic Kings of and the Kingdom of Alba.\n\nDuring the reigns of the sons of Malcolm Canmore (1097–1153), Anglo-Norman names and practices spread throughout Scotland south of the Forth–Clyde line and along the north-eastern coastal plain as far north as Moray. Norman French became dominant among the new feudal aristocracy, especially in southern Scotland, and completely displaced Gaelic at court. The establishment of royal burghs throughout the same area, particularly under David I, attracted large numbers of foreigners speaking \"Inglis\", the language of the merchant class. This was the beginning of Gaelic's status as a predominantly rural language in Scotland. The country underwent significant population growth in the 12th and 13th centuries in the expanding burghs and their nearby agricultural districts. These economic developments surely helped spread English as well.\n\nGaelic still retained some of its old prestige in medieval Scotland. At the coronation of King Alexander III in 1249, a traditional \"\" or story-teller recited the king's full genealogy in Gaelic all the way back to , the mythical progenitor of the Scots in , \"in accordance with the custom which had grown up in the kingdom from antiquity right up to that time\". Clan chiefs in the northern and western parts of Scotland continued to support Gaelic bards who remained a central feature of court life there. The semi-independent Lordship of the Isles in the Hebrides and western coastal mainland had remained thoroughly Gaelic since the language's recovery there in the 12th century, providing a political foundation for cultural prestige down to the end of the 15th century.\n\nThat being said, it seems clear that Gaelic had ceased to be the language of all of Scotland by 1400 at the latest. It disappeared from the central Lowlands by and from the eastern coastal lowlands north of the Mounth not long afterwards. By the mid-14th century what eventually came to be called Scots (at that time termed Inglis) emerged as the official language of government and law. Scotland's emergent nationalism in the era following the Wars of Scottish Independence was organised using Scots as well. For example, the nation's great patriotic literature including John Barbour's \"The Brus\" (1375) and Blind Harry's \"The Wallace\" (before 1488) was written in Scots, not Gaelic. It was around this time that the very name of Gaelic began to change. Until the 14th century, Gaelic was referred to in English as \"Scottis\", i.e. the language of the Scots. By the end of the 15th century, however, the Scottish dialect of Northern English had absorbed that designation. English/Scots speakers referred to Gaelic instead as 'Yrisch' or 'Erse', i.e. Irish. King James IV (d. 1513) thought Gaelic important enough to learn and speak. However, he was the last Scottish monarch to do so.\n\nScottish Gaelic has a rich oral (') and written tradition, having been the language of the bardic culture of the Highland clans for many years. The language preserves knowledge of and adherence to pre-feudal 'tribal' laws and customs (as represented, for example, by the expressions ' and \"\"). These attitudes were still evident in the complaints and claims of the Highland Land League of the late 19th century, which elected MPs to the Parliament of the United Kingdom. However, the language suffered under centralisation efforts by the Scottish and later British states, especially after the Battle of Culloden in 1746, during the Highland Clearances, and by the exclusion of Scottish Gaelic from the educational system.\n\nAccording to Yale University music professor Willie Ruff, the singing of psalms in Scottish Gaelic by Presbyterians of the Scottish Hebrides evolved from \"lining out\" – where one person sings a solo before others follow – into the call and response of gospel music of the southern USA.\n\nAn Irish translation of the Bible dating from the Elizabethan era was in use until the Bible was translated into Scottish Gaelic. Author David Ross notes in his 2002 history of Scotland that a Scottish Gaelic version of the Bible was published in London in 1690 by the Rev. Robert Kirk, minister of Aberfoyle; however it was not widely circulated. The first well-known translation of the Bible into Scottish Gaelic was made in 1767 when Dr James Stuart of Killin and Dugald Buchanan of Rannoch produced a translation of the New Testament. Very few European languages have made the transition to a modern literary language without an early modern translation of the Bible. The lack of a well-known translation until the late 18th century may have contributed to the decline of Scottish Gaelic.\n\nIn the 21st century, Scottish Gaelic literature has seen development within the area of prose fiction publication, as well as challenges due to the continuing decline of the language.\n\nAll surviving dialects are Highland and/or Hebridean dialects. Dialects of Lowland Gaelic have become defunct since the demise of Galwegian Gaelic, originally spoken in Galloway, which seems to have been the last Lowland dialect and which survived into the Modern Period. By the 18th century Lowland Gaelic had been largely replaced by Lowland Scots across much of Lowland Scotland. According to a reference in \"The Carrick Covenanters \" by James Crichton, the last place in the Lowlands where Scottish Gaelic was still spoken was the village of Barr in Carrick: only a few miles inland to the east of Girvan, but at one time very isolated. Crichton gives neither date nor details.\n\nThere is no evidence from place names of significant linguistic differences between, for example, Argyll and Galloway. Dialects on both sides of the Straits of Moyle (the North Channel) linking Scottish Gaelic with Irish are now extinct, though native speakers were still to be found on the Mull of Kintyre, Rathlin and in North East Ireland as late as the mid-20th century. Records of their speech show that Irish and Scottish Gaelic existed in a dialect chain with no clear language boundary.\n\nWhat is known as Scottish Gaelic is essentially the Gaelic spoken in the Outer Hebrides and on Skye. Generally speaking, the Gaelic spoken across the Western Isles is similar enough to be classed as one major dialect group, although there is still regional variation. For example, the slender 'r' is pronounced in Lewis, where the Gaelic is thought to have been influenced by Norse, and had a pitch accent system.\n\nGaelic in Eastern and Southern Scotland is now largely defunct, although the dialects which were spoken in the east tended to preserve a more archaic tone, which had been lost further west. For example, Gaelic speakers in East Sutherland preferred to say ' (\"Where were you about last night?\"), rather than the more common '. Such dialects, along with Manx and Irish, also retain the Classical Gaelic values of the stops, while most dialects underwent devoicing and preaspiration.\n\nA certain number of these dialects, which are now defunct in Scotland, have been preserved, and indeed re-established, in the Nova Scotia Gaelic community. Those of particular note are the Morar and Lochaber dialects, the latter of which pronounces the broad or velarised l () as [].\n"}
{"id": "169179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169179", "title": "Holograph", "text": "Holograph\n\nA holograph is a document written entirely in the handwriting of the person whose signature it bears. Some countries (e.g., France) or local jurisdictions within certain countries (e.g., some U.S. states) give legal standing to specific types of holographic documents, generally waiving requirements that they be witnessed. One of the most important types of such documents are holographic last wills.\n\nThe expansion of the concept of \"holographic\" or handwritten documents must include a discussion of the effectiveness of a document in accomplishing its intended purpose. Print media came into being as a solution to the problem of the sluggish and ponderous task of transcribing written materials by hand. Printing enabled rapid construction, compilation and production of written material and provided a means for the revolutionary concept of dissemination of copies of written material.\n\nThe intrinsic value of employing the handwritten word in creating a document is that the authorship of handwritten documents is able to be authenticated by handwriting comparison with samples of the author's other writings or by recognition by witnesses familiar with the handwriting style and characteristics of the author. This valuable quality of proof of authorship maintains to this day the primacy of the hand-written document where it was required, by law or by necessity, to have authenticity and verifiable provenance or origin of the document.\n\nOf particular importance to law and society was to have the ultimate document requiring authenticity—a last will and testament—retain its authenticity, thereby accomplishing its author's intended purpose: that of making a valid, indisputable disposition of the author's real property, personal assets and wishes or declarations, at the time of his or her death.\n\nThe rule for creating a minimally acceptable \"holographic\" will has been agreed upon: to be indisputably without edit or revision by an outsider (other than the author), absolutely no mechanically printed material must be contained in the document. It must not be typeset, typewritten, mechanically printed or scribed by any means other than by the hand of the original author. This rule does not, however, apply to non-material terms of the will. As a result, so-called \"form wills\" purchased at stationery stores can constitute legally valid holographic wills provided that their material terms are completed solely in the testator's handwriting.\n\nThe will must be dated at the time of its writing, so that it can be compared (visually, forensically) with documents originating from the same author at other times, such as an earlier will (which might be intended by its author to be withdrawn or revoked by a later written will).\n\nTo be effective as a testamentary document, a \"holographic\" will must be signed by its author. Unlike a typewritten or word-processed \"formal\" will, where usually two disinterested witnesses are required to attest to the author's signing or \"execution\" of the document, a holographic will does not require any witnessing or notarization (an accepted form of witnessed certification of authenticity) in order to be a proper and valid testamentary instrument (document) having full legal force and effect.\n\nIn music, a holograph is a manuscript entirely in the composer's hand, while an autograph is merely in a known hand, not necessarily the composer. Such autographs by non-composers are common, as not only was copying music by hand a common way to study it, but the children or students of major composers were also usually copyists for instrumental parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "37780041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37780041", "title": "Iron man (sports streak)", "text": "Iron man (sports streak)\n\nAn Iron man is an athlete of unusual physical endurance. This durability is generally measured by an athlete's ability to play without missing a game and/or start for an extended period of time, sometimes, even for an entire career. Some of the more notable athletes with significant streaks in sports history includes baseball's Lou Gehrig and Cal Ripken Jr., American football's Brett Favre and Joe Thomas, basketball's A. C. Green, ice hockey's Doug Jarvis, and stock car racing's Jeff Gordon.\n\nThe term \"iron man\" as it pertains to sports longevity has origins from major league baseball pitcher Joe McGinnity, who was known for pitching in back to back doubleheaders and leading his league in innings pitched four times in five seasons from 1900 to 1904. He also played professionally until age 54. His nickname was \"Iron Man\" although he said the name came from his off season work for his family's foundry business.\n\nIn 1941, endurance by an athlete was recognized as an \"iron man\" by the press when Lou Gehrig had a streak of 2,130 consecutive games end when he had asked the manager to take him out of the line up due to his fading abilities. Gehrig had been a consistent performer on the field having attained a batting average of at least .300 throughout his career until the previous season when he had fallen to .295. A common characteristic of an iron man is the ability to play through injury. Gehrig displayed this trait in 1934 when his streak was in jeopardy of being snapped at 1,427 games. He had been injured during a game and was pulled from the lineup. The next day, after receiving heat treatments and massages for a stiff back, he was able to get a hit before leaving the contest. Gehrig's record stood for 62 years until surpassed by Cal Ripken Jr. in 1995. After Ripken's record-breaking streak garnered attention from the media, the NBA's A.C. Green received attention for his own streak of consecutive games played in 1997 as he was approaching Randy Smith's record. Then in 1999, Brett Favre set the record for consecutive starts by a quarterback when he started his 117th consecutive game surpassing the mark established by Ron Jaworski. In 2009, Favre would surpass Jim Marshall's starts streak at any position with his 271st consecutive start. \n\nAn iron man streak can also be ended due to disciplinary reasons. In 2015, Matt Kenseth was suspended after he caused a crash that ended Joey Logano's race. NASCAR issued a two-race suspension, effectively ending his streak at 571 leaving him ineligible for pursuing Jeff Gordon's 797-race streak. \n\nIn international cricket, players can be taken out of the squad due to injuries, discipline, poor form, or illegal bowling action or unfavourable conditions against certain bowlers, or simply as a healthy scratch when they are rested during long tours or in a calendar year with hectic schedules. In 2016, Brendon McCullum would finish his international career, having started all 101 tests, which is remarkable not only because he has never been dropped due to poor form or poor health (though he has given up wicketkeeping due to back and knee issues), but because New Zealand has a far leaner schedule compared to Australia and England, even though he is nowhere near Allan Border's actual record of 153, it wasn't throughout his own career. Also, since Test and limited-overs cricket would also feature different players, the consecutive starts streak would be counted separately. Brendon McCullum also started 122 consecutive One-Day Internationals from 2004-2010, the same as Mahela Jayawardene of Sri Lanka with 122 each, but the record is held by Sachin Tendulkar, when his streak was snapped due to injury.\n\nIn 2017, Eli Manning was benched in favor of Geno Smith after the Giants, snapping his active starts streak at 210, which was the longest streak amongst active players. Philip Rivers of the Los Angeles Chargers now has the longest active streak.\n\n"}
{"id": "42653333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42653333", "title": "It's dangerous to go alone!", "text": "It's dangerous to go alone!\n\n\"It's dangerous to go alone! Take this.\" is a quotation and Internet meme from the 1986 video game \"The Legend of Zelda\" for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). It is spoken by an unnamed old man, met in the very first cave of the game, who gives the player-character Link a sword to help him on his quest to defeat Ganon and rescue Princess Zelda.\n\nThe quote has spawned a number of variations and has been a popular image macro. The most popular use as an image macro was an image of a kitten in someone's hand with the quote added to the image. The quote has also been used by a number of websites for titles to articles. IGN positioned it at #27 on their top 100 video game moments list and claimed that the scene was the best example of the exploration element found in \"The Legend of Zelda\". GamesRadar featured it in its list of the 40 most repeated video game quotes as well as the top 100 best video games quote list. UGO Networks' Sal Basile included the quote in a list of \"what we learned\" from \"The Legend of Zelda\".\n\nNintendo used the quote as an tagline for , which features three different Links work together to save Hytopia Kingdom from a curse. Advertising for the game included the slogan, \"It's dangerous to go alone...so don't\".\n\nThe website Ludum Dare hosted a 48-hour contest, wherein game developers had to develop a video game in that span of time with the theme \"It's Dangerous To Go Alone! Take This!\". The contest had 352 participants. A fan-made documentary was to be made with the title \"It's dangerous to go alone!\"; its Kickstarter campaign, however, was unsuccessful.\n\nThe video game \"\" featured the character Jake the Dog saying to fellow protagonist Finn the Human, \"Hey, man! It's dangerous to go alone!\" The game was developed in part as an homage to \"The Legend of Zelda\" series.\n\nIn 2013, the musical-comedy group Starbomb released a song called \"It's Dangerous to Go Alone\" as part of their self-titled album. The song and the music video featured Arin Hanson as Link and Dan Avidan as the old man. The song featured the old man sexually harassing Link.\n"}
{"id": "4472238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4472238", "title": "KTHNX", "text": "KTHNX\n"}
{"id": "15953443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15953443", "title": "Kariya language", "text": "Kariya language\n\nKariya, or Vinahə, is an Afroasiatic language spoken in a single village of Bauchi State, Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "32558770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32558770", "title": "Keiga language", "text": "Keiga language\n\nKeiga or \"Yega\" is a Kadu language spoken in Kordofan. Dialects are Demik (Rofik) and Keiga proper (Aigang).\n\n"}
{"id": "4581558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4581558", "title": "Khalilullah Khalili", "text": "Khalilullah Khalili\n\nKhalilullah Khalili (1907 – 1987; - \"Ḫalīlallāḥ Ḫalīlī\"; alternative spellings: \"Khalilollah\", \"Khalil Ullah\") was Afghanistan's foremost 20th century poet as well as a noted historian, university professor, diplomat and royal confidant. \nHe was the last of the great classical Persian poets and among the first to introduce modern Persian poetry and Nimai style to Afghanistan. He had also expertise in \"Khorasani\" style and was a follower of Farrukhi Sistani. Almost alone among Afghanistan's poets, he enjoyed a following in Iran where his selected poems have been published. His works have been praised by renowned Iranian literary figures and intellectuals. Many see him as the greatest contemporary poet of the Persian language in Afghanistan. He is also known for his major work \"Hero of Khorasan\", a controversial biography of Habībullāh Kalakānī, Emir of Afghanistan in 1929.\n\nKhalili was born in Kabul Province, and came from the same village as Habibullah Kalakani. He wrote exclusively in Persian and is sometimes associated with Tajik nationalist ideology. He belonged to the Pashtun Safi tribe of Kohistan (modern Parwan). His father, Mirzā Muhammad Hussein Khān, was King Habibullah Khan's finance minister and owned mansions in Kabul and Jalalabad, but was later dismissed and hanged by Habibullah Khan's son and successor, Amanullah Khan. His mother was the daughter of Abdul Qādir Khān, a regional Safi tribal leader. She died when Khalili was seven.\n\nKhalili lived and attended school in Kabul until he was 11, when Shāh Habibullāh Khān, king of Afghanistan, was assassinated, purportedly at the behest of his reformist son Amānullāh Khān, who quickly arrested and executed Khalili's father among others associated with the previous regime. Orphaned and unwanted in Kabul, he spent the turbulent years of Amānullāh's reign in the \"Shamālī Plain\" north of Kabul where he studied classical literature and other traditional sciences with leading scholars and began writing poetry. In 1929, when Habībullāh Kalakānī – a local Tajik from Kalakan – deposed Amānullāh Khān, Khalili joined his uncle Abdul Rahim Khan Safi, the new governor of Herat, where he remained for more than 10 years.\n\nIn the early 1940s, he followed his uncle Abdul Rahim Khan Safi, who had been appointed a deputy prime minister, to Kabul. His stay in Kabul was cut short when, in 1945, some elders of the Safi-Clan rebelled and both uncle and nephew were imprisoned. After a year in prison, Khalili was released and exiled to Kandahar where he flourished as a poet and writer.\n\nIn the 1950s, Khalili was allowed to return to Kabul where he was appointed as minister of culture and information and began teaching at Kabul University. He became a confidant to King Zahir Shah whom he often joined on hunting expeditions.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Khalili, who was fluent in Arabic, served as Afghanistan's ambassador to Saudi Arabia and Iraq. He was a member of the \"1964 Constitutional Assembly\" and a representative from Jabal al-Siraj.\n\nFollowing the April 1978 Communist coup, Khalili sought asylum first in Germany and then in the United States where he wrote much of his most powerful poetry about the war in his native land. In the late 1980s, he moved to Islamabad, Pakistan, where he spent his final years. He was buried in Peshawar next to the tomb of the Pashto poet Rahman Baba.\nHIs remains were moved to Afghanistan in 2016. \nBurial:\nKabul University mausoleum \nKabul\nKabul, Afghanistan \nKhalili was a prolific writer, producing over the course of his career an eclectic repertoire ranging from poetry to fiction to history to biography. He published 35 volumes of poetry, including his celebrated works \"Aškhā wa Ḫūnhā\" (\"Tears And Blood\"), composed during the Soviet occupation, and \"Ayyār-e az Ḫorāsān\" (\"Hero of Khorasan\"). With the exception of a selection of his quatrains and the recent \"An Assembly of Moths\", his poetry remains largely unknown to English-speaking readers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6767165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6767165", "title": "Letter frequency", "text": "Letter frequency\n\nThe frequency of letters in text has been studied for use in cryptanalysis, and frequency analysis in particular, dating back to the Iraqi mathematician Al-Kindi (c. 801–873 AD), who formally developed the method (the ciphers breakable by this technique go back at least to the Caesar cipher invented by Julius Caesar, so this method could have been explored in classical times). Letter frequency analysis gained additional importance in Europe with the development of movable type in 1450 AD, where one must estimate the amount of type required for each letterform, as evidenced by the variations in letter compartment size in typographer's type cases.\n\nLinguists use letter frequency analysis as a rudimentary technique for language identification, where it's particularly effective as an indication of whether an unknown writing system is alphabetic, syllablic, or ideographic. For example, the Japanese Hiragana syllabary contains 46 distinct characters, which is more than most phonetic alphabets; by contrast, the English and Hawaiian alphabets have only 26 and 13 letters, respectively.\n\nNo exact letter frequency distribution underlies a given language, since all writers write slightly differently. However, most languages have a characteristic distribution which is strongly apparent in longer texts. Even language changes as extreme as from old English to modern English (regarded as mutually unintelligible) show strong trends in related letter frequencies: over a small sample of Biblical passages, from most frequent to least frequent, enaid sorhm tgþlwu (æ)cfy ðbpxz of old English compares to eotha sinrd luymw fgcbp kvjqxz of modern English, with the most extreme differences concerning letterforms not shared.\n\nLinotype machines for the English language assumed the letter order, from most to least common, to be etaoin shrdlu cmfwyp vbgkjq xz based on the experience and custom of manual compositors. The equivalent for the French language was elaoin sdrétu cmfhyp vbgwqj xz.\n\nModern International Morse code (generally believed to have been developed by Alfred Vail based on English-language letter frequencies of the 1830s) encodes the most frequent letters with the shortest symbols; arranging the Morse alphabet into groups of letters that require equal amounts of time to transmit, and then sorting these groups in increasing order, yields e it san hurdm wgvlfbk opxcz jyq. Similar ideas are used in modern data-compression techniques such as Huffman coding.\n\nLetter frequency was used by other telegraph systems, such as the Murray Code.\n\nLetter frequencies, like word frequencies, tend to vary, both by writer and by subject. One cannot write an essay about x-rays without using frequent Xs, and the essay will have an idiosyncratic letter frequency if the essay is about the frequent use of x-rays to treat zebras in Qatar. Different authors have habits which can be reflected in their use of letters. Hemingway's writing style, for example, is visibly different from Faulkner's. Letter, bigram, trigram, word frequencies, word length, and sentence length can be calculated for specific authors, and used to prove or disprove authorship of texts, even for authors whose styles are not so divergent.\n\nAccurate average letter frequencies can only be gleaned by analyzing a large amount of representative text. With the availability of modern computing and collections of large text corpora, such calculations are easily made. Examples can be drawn from a variety of sources (press reporting, religious texts, scientific texts and general fiction) and there are differences especially for general fiction with the position of 'h' and 'i', with H becoming more common.\n\nHerbert S. Zim, in his classic introductory cryptography text \"Codes and Secret Writing\", gives the English letter frequency sequence as \"ETAON RISHD LFCMU GYPWB VKJXQ Z\", the most common letter pairs as \"TH HE AN RE ER IN ON AT ND ST ES EN OF TE ED OR TI HI AS TO\", and the most common doubled letters as \"LL EE SS OO TT FF RR NN PP CC\".\n\nAlso, to note that different dialects of a language will also affect a letter's frequency. For example, an author in the United States would produce something in which the letter 'z' is more common than an author in the United Kingdom writing on the same topic: words like \"analyze\", \"apologize\", and \"recognize\" contain the letter in American English, whereas the same words are spelled \"analyse\", \"apologise\", and \"recognise\" in British English. This would highly affect the frequency of the letter 'z' as it is a rarely used letter elsewhere in the English language.\n\nThe \"top twelve\" letters constitute about 80% of the total usage. The \"top eight\" letters constitute about 65% of the total usage. Letter frequency as a function of rank can be fitted well by several rank functions, with the two-parameter Cocho/Beta rank function being the best. Another rank function with no adjustable free parameter also fits the letter frequency distribution reasonably well (the same function has been used to fit the amino acid frequency in protein sequences.) A spy using the VIC cipher or some other cipher based on a straddling checkerboard typically uses a mnemonic such as \"a sin to err\" (dropping the second \"r\")\nor \"at one sir\"\nto remember the top eight characters.\n\nThe use of letter frequencies and frequency analysis plays a fundamental role in cryptograms and several word puzzle games, including Hangman, Scrabble and the television game show \"Wheel of Fortune\". One of the earliest descriptions in classical literature of applying the knowledge of English letter frequency to solving a cryptogram is found in E.A. Poe's famous story \"The Gold-Bug\", where the method is successfully applied to decipher a message instructing on the whereabouts of a treasure hidden by Captain Kidd.\n\nLetter frequencies had a strong effect on the design of some keyboard layouts. The most frequent letters are on the bottom row of the Blickensderfer typewriter, and the home row of the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard.\n\nThere are three ways to count letter frequency that result in very different charts for common letters. The first method, used in the chart below, is to count letter frequency in root words of a dictionary. The second is to include all word variants when counting, such as \"abstracts\", \"abstracted\" and \"abstracting\" and not just the root word of \"abstract\". This system results in letters like \"s\" appearing much more frequently, such as when counting letters from lists of the most used English words on the Internet. A final variant is to count letters based on their frequency of use in actual texts, resulting in certain letter combinations like \"th\" becoming more common due to the frequent use of common words like \"the\". Absolute usage frequency measures like this are used when creating keyboard layouts or letter frequencies in old fashioned printing presses.\n\nAn analysis of entries in the Concise Oxford dictionary, ignoring frequency of word use, gives an order of \"EARIOTNSLCUDPMHGBFYWKVXZJQ\".\n\nThe letter-frequency table below is taken from Pavel Mička's website, which cites Robert Lewand's \"Cryptological Mathematics\". \nAccording to Lewand, arranged from most to least common in appearance, the letters are: etaoinshrdlcumwfgypbvkjxqz. Lewand's ordering differs slightly from others, such as Cornell University Math Explorer's Project, which produced a table after measuring 40,000 words.\n\nIn English, the space is slightly more frequent than the top letter (e) and the non-alphabetic characters (digits, punctuation, etc.) collectively occupy the fourth position (having already included the space) between \"t\" and \"a\".\n\nThe frequency of the first letters of words or names is helpful in pre-assigning space in physical files and indexes.\nGiven 26 filing cabinet drawers, rather than a 1:1 assignment of one drawer to one letter of the alphabet,\nit is often useful to use a more equal-frequency-letter code by assigning several low-frequency letters to the \nsame drawer (often one drawer is labeled VWXYZ), and to split up the most-frequent initial letters — S, A, and C - \ninto several drawers (often 6 drawers Aa-An, Ao-Az, Ca-Cj, Ck-Cz, Sa-Si, Sj-Sz). The same system is used in \nsome multi-volume works such as some encyclopedias. Cutter numbers, another mapping of names to a \nmore equal-frequency code, are used in some libraries.\n\nBoth the overall letter distribution and the word-initial letter distribution approximately match the Zipf distribution and even more closely match the Yule distribution.\n\nOften the frequency distribution of the first digit in each datum is significantly different from the overall frequency of all the digits in a set of numeric data—see Benford's law for details.\n\nAn analysis by Peter Norvig on Google Books data determined, among other things, the frequency of first letters of English words:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>See Dotted and dotless I.\n\nThe figure below illustrates the frequency distributions of the 26 most common Latin letters across some languages. All of these languages use a similar 25+ character alphabet.\nBased on these tables, the 'etaoin shrdlu'-equivalent results for each language is as follows:\n\n\nSome useful tables for single letter, digram, trigram, tetragram, and pentagram frequencies based on 20,000 words that take into\naccount word-length and letter-position combinations for words 3 to 7 letters in length. The references are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1870830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870830", "title": "Lorenzo Varela", "text": "Lorenzo Varela\n\nXesús Lorenzo Varela Vázquez (Havana, August 10, 1917 – Madrid, November 25, 1978) was a Galician poet.\n\nVarela was born in a boat, while his parents, emigrants from Galicia, were going to Havana, Cuba. Some people consider it to be a kind of prophecy, as Varela lived in exile for most of his life.\n\nVarela returned to Galicia and grew up in Lugo. He was an active member of the Federación de Mocedades Galeguistas (Federation of Galician Youth).\n\nIn 1934 Varela moved to Madrid, where he contacted with the group PAN (Poetas Andantes y Navegantes, literally Walking and Sailing Poets — note that the abbreviation makes reference to Pan, a Greek god, and is also the Spanish and Galician word for bread) and with Misións Pedagóxicas (Pedagogic Missions). He also joined the Communist Party of Spain (Partido Comunista de España or PCE).\n\nAfter the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), Varela left Spain, exiling himself first in France and then, in May 1939, in Mexico. He moved to Buenos Aires in 1941, where he made contact with other exiled Galicians and emigrants from Galicia. He would publish most of his poetry, in the Galician language, while in Argentina.\n\nIn May 1976, after the death of caudillo Francisco Franco, Varela decided to return to Spain. He finally settled in Madrid, where he lived until his death two years later.\n\nThe \"Día das Letras Galegas\" (\"Galician Literature Day\") was dedicated to him in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "244618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244618", "title": "László Bíró", "text": "László Bíró\n\nLászló József Bíró () or Ladislao José Biro (born as László József Schweiger, 29 September 1899 – 24 October 1985) was a Hungarian-Argentine inventor, who patented the first commercially successful modern ballpoint pen. The first ball point pen was invented roughly fifty years earlier by John J. Loud but it did not attain commercial success.\n\nBíró was born to a Hungarian Jewish family in Budapest, Hungary, in 1899 to Mózes Mátyás Schweiger and Janka née Ullmann. He had a brother, György Bíró. After leaving school, he began work as a journalist in Hungary.\n\nWhile working as a journalist Biró noticed that the ink used in newspaper printing dried quickly, leaving the paper dry and smudge-free. He tried using the same ink in a fountain pen but found that it would not flow into the tip, as it was too viscous.\n\nHe presented the first production of the ballpoint pen at the Budapest International Fair in 1931. Working with his brother György, a chemist, he developed a new tip consisting of a ball that was free to turn in a socket, and as it turned it would pick up ink from a cartridge and then roll to deposit it on the paper. Bíró patented the invention in Paris in 1938.\n\nDuring World War II, Bíró fled the Nazis with his brother, moving to Argentina in 1943. On 10 June, they filed another patent, issued in the US as , and formed \"Biro Pens of Argentina\" (in Argentina the ballpoint pen is known as \"birome\"). This new design was supposedly licensed for production in the United Kingdom for supply to Royal Air Force aircrew.\n\nIn 1945, Marcel Bich bought the patent from Bíró for the pen, which soon became the main product of his BIC company, which has sold more than 100 billion ballpoint pens worldwide. In November of that same year, promoter Milton Reynolds introduced a gravity-fed pen to the U.S. market, to try and get around Biro's patent, which was based on capillary action, where fresh ink is drawn out of the reservoir of the pen as ink is deposited on the paper. Because the Reynolds workaround depended on a gravity feed, it did not infringe, but required thinner ink and a larger barrel. The Reynolds Pen was a sensation for a few years, until its reputation for leaking and competition from established pen manufacturers overtook it.\n\nLászló Bíró died in Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1985.\n\nArgentina's Inventors' Day is celebrated on Bíró's birthday, 29 September. \n\nA ballpoint pen is widely referred to as a \"biro\" in many countries, including the UK, Ireland, Australia and Italy. Although the word is a registered trademark, in some countries it has become genericised. On 29 September 2016, the 117th anniversary of his birth, Google commemorated Bíró with a Google Doodle for \"his relentless, forward-thinking spirit\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50228339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50228339", "title": "Martin Davies (philosopher)", "text": "Martin Davies (philosopher)\n\nMartin Davies (born 1950) is Wilde Professor of Mental Philosophy Emeritus at the University of Oxford and Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford where he taught from 2006 until 2017. He works in philosophy of mind, philosophy of language, epistemology and philosophy of psychology and cognitive science.\n\nDavies was an undergraduate at Monash University and then earned B.Phil. and D.Phil. degrees at Oxford University, working with Gareth Evans (philosopher), Christopher Peacocke and Dana Scott. He taught at the University of Essex, Birkbeck College, London, and was Wilde Reader in Mental Philosophy at Oxford from 1993 to 2000. He then took up a Professorship at the Australian National University before returning to Oxford in 2006 as the Wilde Professor. He retired from that position in 2017.\n\nHe is an elected Fellow of both the Australian Academy of the Humanities and the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7307026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7307026", "title": "Medieval etymology", "text": "Medieval etymology\n\nMedieval etymology is the study of the history of words as conducted by scholars in the European Middle Ages.\n\nEtymology is the study of the origins of words. Before the beginnings of large-scale modern lexicography in the 16th century and the development of the comparative method in the 18th, a scientific etymology as modern linguistics understand it was not possible. However, grammarians had always speculated about the origins of words. There are many examples of etymology in the Bible, for example, and in the works of classical writers. In cases where the history of the words was simple, such speculations have sometimes proved correct in the light of modern scholarship, but generally they were based on superficial similarities.\n\nLike classical etymology, Medieval Christian etymology drew tenuous connections between superficially similar words, but exegetical etymology was radically new in what it then did with the connections. The purpose of etymology was to elucidate the spiritual background to a concept, drawing out aspects of semantics in a similar manner to the symbolic interpretation of the natural world.\n\nAn example: Hugh of St Victor derived the Latin word \"mors\" ('death') from \"morsus\" ('bite'): \"a morsu primi hominis qui vetitae arboris pomum mordens mortem incurrit\" ('from the bite of the first man, who, biting the apple of the forbidden tree, incurs death'). The etymology was thus crafted to teach a spiritual truth. The fact that the same author knew other, alternative and logically incompatible etymologies for the same word (\"mors\" comes also from \"amarus\", 'bitter', or from the name of the god of war Mars) did not devalue the lesson, since it was the spiritual meaning and not the philological accuracy which stood in the foreground.\n\nAs yet there is still no satisfactory history of Christian etymology, but a very useful discussion of it is that of Friedrich Ohly in his essay \"On the spiritual sense of the word in the Middle Ages\".\nOhly writes:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907910", "title": "Narsinh Mehta", "text": "Narsinh Mehta\n\nNarsinh Mehta, also known as Narsi Mehta or Narsi Bhagat , was a 15th-century poet-saint of Gujarat, India, notable as a bhakta, an exponent of Vaishnava poetry. He is especially revered in Gujarati literature, where he is acclaimed as its \"Adi Kavi\" (Sanskrit for \"first among poets\"). His bhajan \"Vaishnav Jan To\" was Mahatma Gandhi's favourite and has become synonymous to him.\n\nNarsinh Mehta was born in a Nagar Brahmin family at Talaja and later moved to Junagadh in Saurashtra peninsula of modern-day Gujarat. His father held an administrative post in a royal court. He lost his parents when he was five years old. He could not speak until the age of eight. He was raised by his grandmother Jaygauri.\n\nHe married Manekbai probably in the year 1429. Mehta and his wife stayed at his brother Bansidhar's house in Junagadh. However, Bansidhar's wife (Sister-in-law or \"bhabhi\") did not welcome Narsinh very well. She was an ill-tempered woman, always taunting and insulting Narsinh Mehta for his devotion (Bhakti). One day, when Narasinh Mehta had enough of these taunts and insults, he left the house and went to a nearby forest in search of some peace, where he fasted and meditated for seven days by a secluded Shiva lingam until Shiva appeared before him in person. On the poet's request, the Lord took him to Vrindavan and showed him the eternal \"raas leela\" of Krishna and the Gopis. A legend has it that the poet, transfixed by the spectacle, burnt his hand with the torch he was holding, but he was so engrossed in the ecstatic vision that he was oblivious to the pain. Mehta, as the popular account goes, at Krishna's command, decided to sing His praises and the nectarous experience of the \"rasa\" in this mortal world. He resolved to compose around 22,000 kirtans or compositions.\n\nAfter this divine experience, the transformed Mehta returned to his village, touched his sister-in-law's feet as reverence, and thanked her for insulting him for had she not made him upset, the above episode would not have occurred.\n\nIn Junagadh, Mehta lived in poverty with his wife and two children, a son named Shamaldas, and a daughter for whom he had special affection, Kunwarbai. He revelled in devotion to his heart's content along with sadhus, saints, and all those people who were Lord Hari's subjects – Harijans – irrespective of their caste, class or sex. It also seems that he must have fallen into a somewhat ill repute amongst the Nagars following incidents like accepting invitation to sing glories of Lord Krishna in association of devotees belonging to lower social strata. The Nagars of Junagadh despised him and spared no opportunity to scorn and insult him . By this time, Mehta had already sung about the rasaleela of Radha and Krishna. The compositions are collected under the category of shringar compositions. They are full of intense lyricism, based upon pastimes of conjugal love between the Supreme Lord and His most intimate devotees - the Gopis and are not without allegorical dimensions.\n\nSoon after his daughter, Kunwarbai's marriage (around 1447) to Shrirang Mehta of Una's son, Kunwarbai conceived and it had been a custom for the girl's parents to give gifts and presents to all the in-laws during the seventh month of pregnancy. This custom, known as Mameru, was simply out of the reach of materialistically poor Narsinh who had hardly anything except intransient faith in his Lord. How Krishna helped his beloved devotee is a legend depicted in 'Mameru Na Pada'. This episode is preserved vividly in the memory of Gujarati people by compositions by later poets and films. Other famous legends include: 'Hundi (Bond)' episode and 'Har Mala (Garland)' episode. The episode in which none other than Shamalsha Seth cleared a bond written by poverty-stricken beloved, is famous not only in Gujarat but in other parts of India as well. The Har Mala episode deals with the challenge given to Mehta by Ra Mandalika (1451–1472), a Chudasama king, to prove his innocence in the charges of immoral behaviour by making the Lord Himself garland Narsinh. Mehta depicts this episode. How Sri Krishna, in the guise of a wealthy merchant, helped Mehta in getting his son married is sung by the poet in \"Putra Vivah Na Pada\". He went to Mangrol where, at the age of 79, he is believed to have died. The crematorium at Mangrol is called 'Narsinh Nu Samshan' where one of the sons of Gujarat and more importantly a great Vaishnav was cremated. He will forever be remembered for his poetic works and devotion to Lord Krishna. He is known as the first poet of Gujarati Adi Kavi.\n\nDarshana Dholakiya had studied the development of biography of Narsinh Mehta. She has divided the development in three stages; biography from his poetry which is autobiographical in nature, biography emerging from poetry of poets born between Krishnadas and Premanand, biography written by poets after Premanand. She considers second stage very important because an image of Narsinh Mehta's personality was established during this period.\n\nNo year is mentioned in his compositions. So there is difference of opinions among scholars about his time.\n\nThe mention of Junagadh king Mandalika is considered to establish his date. No independent poem of the event of garland is found in the biographical poems of the poets of second period like Krishnadas, Vishnudas, Govind, Vishwanath Jani or Premanand but the event of garland is mentioned in some poems.\n\nA poem on the event of garland is independently found in the autobiographical poems said to be composed by Narsinh. The oldest manuscript dated Samvat 1675 has seven poems (\"pada\") which also mentions Mandalika. So it can be said that the contemporaneity of Mandalika and Narsinh was established by Samvat 1675. One poem on the event of garland even mentions Samvat 1512 as the date of event but the authenticity is not established. So it is known that the contemporaneity of Mandalika and Narsinh is popular in old as well as new traditions. One question emerge from that why did Mandalika tested him even though he was mentioned as a religious Vaishnava in other sources. This Mandalika must have been Mandalika III ( or Samvat 1506–1527) and was defeated by Mahmud Begada. His defeat is connected to the test of Narsinh. Other reasons for his defeat mentioned are the curse of Charan lady Nagbai and his relation with wife of his minister Vishal.\n\nIn older traditions, there is no mention of his clan. Names of his parents or brother is not mentioned either.\n\n\"Narsain Mehtanu Akhyan\" (written after Samvat 1705) mentions one Parvat Mehta but he was not related to Narsinh Mehta and he is just mentioned as a devotee.\n\nVallabhdas' \"Shamaldasno Vivah\" gives information about his clan and ancestry. Purushottam is mentioned as his grandfather. His \"gotra\" is Kashyap. His Veda division and his family deities (\"Kuladevta\" and \"Kuladevi\") is also mentioned. The following family tree is mentioned in it:\n\n\"Draupadi Pattavidhan\" composed by Rangildas, son of Trikamdas, mentions that Trikamdas was mentioned in Narsinh's clan. But it can be taken as the common Nagar clan.\n\nSeveral pedigrees are recorded later but they differ from each other. One pedigree even mentions Narsinh as an uncle of Parvatdas though Parvatdas is commonly mentioned as an uncle of Narsinh. So authenticity of these pedigrees are questionable. Vallabhdas' \"Shamaldas no Vivah\" has years of Narsinh arranged so it seems that he had tried to establish his biography.\n\nSo Dholakiya opines that the authentic pedigree of Narsinh Mehta has not survived.\n\nThe exact location of the non-reverend Shivalinga worshiped by Narsinh is not mentioned in old as well as new traditions.\n\n\"Shamaldas No Vivah\", purportedly composed by Narsinh himself, mentions the place as Gopinath. Later work \"Narsain Mehtanu Akhyan\" mentions it as Gopeshwar. Some scholars mentions Gopnath near Talaja as the place but it is dubious because Narsinh had worshiped it in forest while the Gopnath is on the seashore. It must have been near Junagadh because mention of forest.\n\nAs he worshiped Shiva after leaving home, it can be said that his family tradition was Shaivism. He became Vaishnava due to Shiva. It is mentioned that other Nagars opposed him due to his Vaishnava tradition. Vishwanath Jani's \"Mosalacharitra\" mentions that a Nagar opposed him saying that he is not \"vipra\" (Brahmin) because he is Vaishnava. So Dholakiya opines that the event of Shiva may have originated to make his Vaishnava devotion acceptable.\n\nHarivallabh Bhayani opines that the Vaishnava devotion was prevalent in Narshin's time and it is not unusual that he was devotee of Vaishnava. He also mentions the \"Vaishnava\" surname among Nagars.\n\nNo education or profession other than religious devotion is mentioned in his poetry. It is said that he became poet due to grace of god but Bhayani opines that, if we consider \"Chaturi\" as his full or partial composition, its language, style and emotion establishes Narsinh's knowledge of literary traditions and creativity. Narsinh must have known \"Geet Govind\", Vedant etc. It works seem influenced by Marathi poets like Namdev. So he must have studied according to his Nagar family tradition.\n\nNarsinh was opposed in his Nagar society but the opposition was not strong as much seen in other saint-poets like Meera and Kabir of that era.\nThe reasons behind opposition seem his acceptance of Vaishnava tradition even though his family tradition was Shaiva, his attitude towards society and poor and his friendly devotion to god in view of orthodox society. His life events matches events of several popular saint-poets like Surdas, Tulsidas, Meera, Kabir, Namdev and Sundarar. While several saint-poets are not involved in household, Narsinh was involved in household even after his commitment to devotion. He lived with his family and he did not had any followers.\n\nMehta is a pioneer poet of Gujarati literature. He is known for his literary forms called \"pada (verse)\", \"Akhyana\" and \"Prabhatiya\" (morning devotional songs).\nOne of the most important features of Mehta's works is that they are not available in the language in which Narsinh had composed them. They have been largely preserved orally. The oldest available manuscript of his work is dated around 1612, and was found by the noted scholar Keshavram Kashiram Shastri from Gujarat Vidhya Sabha. Because of the immense popularity of his works, their language has undergone modifications with changing times. Mehta wrote many bhajans and Aartis for lord Krishna, and they are published in many books. The biography of Mehta is also available at Geeta Press.\n\nFor the sake of convenience, the works of Mehta are divided into three categories:\n\nSee: \"Vaishnav jan to\", his popular composition.\n\nThe first Gujarati talkie film, \"Narsinh Mehta\" (1932) directed by Nanubhai Vakil was based on Narsinh Mehta's life. It was devoid of any miracles due to Gandhian influence. The bilingual film \"Narsi Bhagat\" in Hindi \"Narsi Mehta\" in Gujarati (1940) directed by Vijay Bhatt included miracles and had paralleled Mehta with Mahatma Gandhi. \"Narsaiyo\" (1991) was a Gujarati television series telecast by the Ahmedabad centre of Doordarshan starring Darshan Jariwala in lead role. This 27-episode successful series was produced by Nandubhai Shah and directed by Mulraj Rajda.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15480716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15480716", "title": "New print", "text": "New print\n\nIn philately a new print or afterprint is a new printing of a postage stamp not from the original printing plate, when the stamp is no longer sold at the post office counter for postage purposes.\n\nWhere a new printing is from the original medium it is classed as a \"reprint\", but where the original medium is no longer available, perhaps because the original printing plates have been destroyed, it is classed as a \"new print\" or \"afterprint\".\n\nFor instance, the 1856 10 kopek stamp from Finland was reprinted in 1862 by the same method as the original (typography) and from the original steel die. In 1892 the Russian Director of Posts and Telegraphs ordered the stamp to be printed again, however, the original die was not available and the stamp was therefore reproduced using lithography, making it a \"new print\". Had the later stamp not been officially authorised it would be classed as a forgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "21170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21170", "title": "Numeral system", "text": "Numeral system\n\nA numeral system (or system of numeration) is a writing system for expressing numbers; that is, a mathematical notation for representing numbers of a given set, using digits or other symbols in a consistent manner. The same sequence of symbols may represent different numbers in different numeral systems. For example, \"11\" represents the number \"three\" in the binary numeral system (used in computers) and the number \"eleven\" in the decimal numeral system (used in common life).\n\nThe number the numeral represents is called its value.\n\nIdeally, a numeral system will:\n\nFor example, the usual decimal representation of whole numbers gives every nonzero whole number a unique representation as a finite sequence of digits, beginning with a non-zero digit. However, when decimal representation is used for the rational or real numbers, such numbers in general have an infinite number of representations, for example 2.31 can also be written as 2.310, 2.3100000, 2.309999999..., etc., all of which have the same meaning except for some scientific and other contexts where greater precision is implied by a larger number of figures shown.\n\nNumeral systems are sometimes called \"number systems\", but that name is ambiguous, as it could refer to different systems of numbers, such as the system of real numbers, the system of complex numbers, the system of \"p\"-adic numbers, etc. Such systems are, however, not the topic of this article.\n\nThe most commonly used system of numerals is the Hindu–Arabic numeral system. Two Indian mathematicians are credited with developing it. Aryabhata of Kusumapura developed the place-value notation in the 5th century and a century later Brahmagupta introduced the symbol for zero. The numeral system and the zero concept, developed by the Hindus in India, slowly spread to other surrounding countries due to their commercial and military activities with India. The Arabs adopted and modified it. Even today, the Arabs call the numerals which they use \"Rakam Al-Hind\" or the Hindu numeral system. The Arabs translated Hindu texts on numerology and spread them to the western world due to their trade links with them. The Western world modified them and called them the Arabic numerals, as they learned them from the Arabs. Hence the current western numeral system is the modified version of the Hindu numeral system developed in India. It also exhibits a great similarity to the Sanskrit–Devanagari notation, which is still used in India and neighbouring Nepal.\n\nThe simplest numeral system is the unary numeral system, in which every natural number is represented by a corresponding number of symbols. If the symbol / is chosen, for example, then the number seven would be represented by ///////. Tally marks represent one such system still in common use. The unary system is only useful for small numbers, although it plays an important role in theoretical computer science. Elias gamma coding, which is commonly used in data compression, expresses arbitrary-sized numbers by using unary to indicate the length of a binary numeral.\n\nThe unary notation can be abbreviated by introducing different symbols for certain new values. Very commonly, these values are powers of 10; so for instance, if / stands for one, − for ten and + for 100, then the number 304 can be compactly represented as +++ //// and the number 123 as + − − /// without any need for zero. This is called sign-value notation. The ancient Egyptian numeral system was of this type, and the Roman numeral system was a modification of this idea.\n\nMore useful still are systems which employ special abbreviations for repetitions of symbols; for example, using the first nine letters of the alphabet for these abbreviations, with A standing for \"one occurrence\", B \"two occurrences\", and so on, one could then write C+ D/ for the number 304. This system is used when writing Chinese numerals and other East Asian numerals based on Chinese. The number system of the English language is of this type (\"three hundred [and] four\"), as are those of other spoken languages, regardless of what written systems they have adopted. However, many languages use mixtures of bases, and other features, for instance 79 in French is \"soixante dix-neuf\" () and in Welsh is \"pedwar ar bymtheg a thrigain\" () or (somewhat archaic) \"pedwar ugain namyn un\" (). In English, one could say \"four score less one\", as in the famous Gettysburg Address representing \"87 years ago\" as \"four score and seven years ago\".\n\nMore elegant is a \"positional system\", also known as place-value notation. Again working in base 10, ten different digits 0, ..., 9 are used and the position of a digit is used to signify the power of ten that the digit is to be multiplied with, as in or more precisely . Note that zero, which is not needed in the other systems, is of crucial importance here, in order to be able to \"skip\" a power. The Hindu–Arabic numeral system, which originated in India and is now used throughout the world, is a positional base 10 system.\n\nArithmetic is much easier in positional systems than in the earlier additive ones; furthermore, additive systems need a large number of different symbols for the different powers of 10; a positional system needs only ten different symbols (assuming that it uses base 10).\n\nThe positional decimal system is presently universally used in human writing. The base 1000 is also used (albeit not universally), by grouping the digits and considering a sequence of three decimal digits as a single digit. This is the meaning of the common notation 1,000,234,567 used for very large numbers.\n\nIn computers, the main numeral systems are based on the positional system in base 2 (binary numeral system), with two binary digits, 0 and 1. Positional systems obtained by grouping binary digits by three (octal numeral system) or four (hexadecimal numeral system) are commonly used. For very large integers, bases 2 or 2 (grouping binary digits by 32 or 64, the length of the machine word) are used, as, for example, in GMP.\n\nThe numerals used when writing numbers with digits or symbols can be divided into two types that might be called the arithmetic numerals (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9) and the geometric numerals (1, 10, 100, 1000, 10000 ...), respectively. The sign-value systems use only the geometric numerals and the positional systems use only the arithmetic numerals. A sign-value system does not need arithmetic numerals because they are made by repetition (except for the Ionic system), and a positional system does not need geometric numerals because they are made by position. However, the spoken language uses \"both\" arithmetic and geometric numerals.\n\nIn certain areas of computer science, a modified base \"k\" positional system is used, called bijective numeration, with digits 1, 2, ..., \"k\" (), and zero being represented by an empty string. This establishes a bijection between the set of all such digit-strings and the set of non-negative integers, avoiding the non-uniqueness caused by leading zeros. Bijective base-\"k\" numeration is also called \"k\"-adic notation, not to be confused with \"p\"-adic numbers. Bijective base 1 is the same as unary.\n\nIn a positional base \"b\" numeral system (with \"b\" a natural number greater than 1 known as the radix), \"b\" basic symbols (or digits) corresponding to the first \"b\" natural numbers including zero are used. To generate the rest of the numerals, the position of the symbol in the figure is used. The symbol in the last position has its own value, and as it moves to the left its value is multiplied by \"b\".\n\nFor example, in the decimal system (base 10), the numeral 4327 means , noting that .\n\nIn general, if \"b\" is the base, one writes a number in the numeral system of base \"b\" by expressing it in the form and writing the enumerated digits in descending order. The digits are natural numbers between 0 and , inclusive.\n\nIf a text (such as this one) discusses multiple bases, and if ambiguity exists, the base (itself represented in base 10) is added in subscript to the right of the number, like this: number. Unless specified by context, numbers without subscript are considered to be decimal.\n\nBy using a dot to divide the digits into two groups, one can also write fractions in the positional system. For example, the base 2 numeral 10.11 denotes .\n\nIn general, numbers in the base \"b\" system are of the form:\n\nThe numbers \"b\" and \"b\" are the weights of the corresponding digits. The position \"k\" is the logarithm of the corresponding weight \"w\", that is formula_2. The highest used position is close to the order of magnitude of the number.\n\nThe number of tally marks required in the unary numeral system for \"describing the weight\" would have been w. In the positional system, the number of digits required to describe it is only formula_3, for \"k\" ≥ 0. For example, to describe the weight 1000 then four digits are needed because formula_4. The number of digits required to \"describe the position\" is formula_5 (in positions 1, 10, 100... only for simplicity in the decimal example).\n\nNote that a number has a terminating or repeating expansion if and only if it is rational; this does not depend on the base. A number that terminates in one base may repeat in another (thus ). An irrational number stays aperiodic (with an infinite number of non-repeating digits) in all integral bases. Thus, for example in base 2, can be written as the aperiodic 11.001001000011111...\n\nPutting overscores, , or dots, \"ṅ\", above the common digits is a convention used to represent repeating rational expansions. Thus:\n\nIf \"b\" = \"p\" is a prime number, one can define base-\"p\" numerals whose expansion to the left never stops; these are called the \"p\"-adic numbers.\n\nMore general is using a mixed radix notation (here written little-endian) like formula_7 for formula_8, etc.\n\nThis is used in punycode, one aspect of which is the representation of a sequence of non-negative integers of arbitrary size in the form of a sequence without delimiters, of \"digits\" from a collection of 36: a–z and 0–9, representing 0–25 and 26–35 respectively. A digit lower than a threshold value marks that it is the most-significant digit, hence the end of the number. The threshold value depends on the position in the number. For example, if the threshold value for the first digit is b (i.e. 1) then a (i.e. 0) marks the end of the number (it has just one digit), so in numbers of more than one digit, range is only b–9 (1–35), therefore the weight \"b\" is 35 instead of 36. Suppose the threshold values for the second and third digits are c (2), then the third digit has a weight 34 × 35 = 1190 and we have the following sequence:\n\na (0), ba (1), ca (2), .., 9a (35), bb (36), cb (37), .., 9b (70), bca (71), .., 99a (1260), bcb (1261), etc.\n\nUnlike a regular based numeral system, there are numbers like 9b where 9 and b each represents 35; yet the representation is unique because ac and aca are not allowed – the a would terminate the number.\n\nThe flexibility in choosing threshold values allows optimization depending on the frequency of occurrence of numbers of various sizes.\n\nThe case with all threshold values equal to 1 corresponds to bijective numeration, where the zeros correspond to separators of numbers with digits which are non-zero.\n\n"}
{"id": "48115714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48115714", "title": "Pashto Wikipedia", "text": "Pashto Wikipedia\n\nPashto Wikipedia is the Pashto language edition of Wikipedia, a free, open-content encyclopedia. As of 03 2018, it had articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "18176819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18176819", "title": "Peter III of Raqqa", "text": "Peter III of Raqqa\n\nPeter III of Raqqa (Latin: Petrus Callinicus; \"Peter of Callinicum\"), was the Patriarch of Antioch and head of the Syriac Orthodox Church from 581 until his death in 591.\n\nPeter, son of a certain Paul, was born in the 6th century in the city of Callinicum (modern Raqqa), where he became fluent in Greek and Syriac and studied philosophy and theology. The late 6th century was a period of controversy within the church as dispute existed between two factions, the Paulites, supporters of Paul II, who had been deposed in 575, and Jacobites, who opposed Paul II. Pope Damian of Alexandria, an opponent of Paul II, consecrated Peter as patriarch at the Monastery of St Ananias in 581 and Paul died soon after.\n\nAfterwards, Peter, with Probus and archimandrite John Barbur travelled to Hauran and Alexandria to promote religious ties with the Coptic Orthodox Church, another miaphysite church. Whilst in Alexandria, upon hearing the preaching of Stephanus of Alexandria, Probus and John Barbur adopted monophysitism and were subsequently excommunicated and expelled. Probus and John Barbur returned to Syria to promulgate monophysitism. Akin to earlier patriarchs, Peter took residence outside of Antioch as Syriac Orthodox patriarchs were barred from Antioch and resided at the Monastery of Gubba Baraya near Mabbogh where he formulated refutations against monophysitism. In 584/585 or 585/586, Peter held a synod at the monastery and condemned Probus and John Barbur.\n\nIn c. 585, Pope Damian published a treatise condemning tritheism, a heretical doctrine popular amongst monophysites, however, Peter considered it sabellian and published \"Against Damian\", a three volume treatise refuting Damian, in 588/589. A certain Jafna, a Ghassanid tribal leader, attempted to reconcile Damian and Peter and organised a meeting at the Church of St. Sergius in Jabiyah, but was unsuccessful and the two churches were in schism until 616 AD. He also wrote \"Adversus Tritheistas\" or \"Many-lined Letter\", a short treatise refuting tritheism, which may have formed part of \"Against Damian\". Peter administered the Syriac Orthodox Church until his death at the Monastery of Gubba Barraya on 22 April 591 AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3884968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3884968", "title": "Peter von Bagh", "text": "Peter von Bagh\n\nKari Peter Conrad von Bagh (29 August 1943 – 17 September 2014) was a Finnish film historian and director. Von Bagh worked as the head of the Finnish Film Archive. He was the editor-in-chief of \"Filmihullu\" magazine and co-founder and director of the Midnight Sun Film Festival. Since 2001, he had been the artistic director of the film festival Il Cinema Ritrovato in Bologna. Von Bagh was a member of the jury in the competition category of 2004 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nFilms directed by Peter von Bagh are screened at prestigious international forums, including an extensive retrospective of his works at the Rotterdam International Film Festival and Festival Internacional de Cine Independente in Buenos Aires in 2012, and at the Tromsø International Film Festival in 2013.\n\nPrincipal works of Peter von Bagh's production of approximately 40 non-fiction books, mostly on cinema, and some 60 films for both the cinemas and television include his internationally successful films \"Helsinki, Forever\" (2008) and \"Sodankylä, Forever\" (2010–2011, a documentary series of the first twenty-five years of the Midnight Sun Film Festival), \"Song of Finland\" (\"The Story of Art in Finland During the Era of Independence\", a twelve-episode television series, YLE 2003–04, and a book published by WSOY 2007), \"Elokuvan historia\" (\"History of Cinema\", a 52-episode radio series, YLE and a book published by W&G 1975, Otava 1998, 2004) and \"Tähtien kirja\" (\"The Book of Stars\", Otava, 2006). The book \"Aki Kaurismäki\" has been translated into several languages. He died in 2014 at the age of 71.\n\nBorn to a German Russian psychiatrist father, Von Bagh graduated from the Oulun lyseo Upper Secondary School in 1961. He took his Master of Arts degree at University of Helsinki in 1970 with a combination of subjects consisting of Theoretical Philosophy, Sociology, Aesthetics, and Literature. His dissertation \"Elokuvalliset keinot ja niiden käyttö: Alfred Hitchcockin Vertigo\" was later published as a book (Helsingin yliopisto, 1979). Von Bagh took his degree of Doctor of Social Sciences in 2002. His doctoral thesis \"Peili jolla oli muisti – elokuvallinen kollaasi kadonneen ajan merkityksien hahmottajana\" (1895–1970), (SKS 2002) examines the fundamental units of cinematic expression, montage and collage.\n\nVon Bagh has taught and lectured at several schools and universities, e.g. as Professor of Film History at Aalto University since 2001. He has also compiled a textbook on cinema, \"Salainen muisti\" (Sanoma Pro, 2009), to be used in schools.\n\nThe connecting thought in Peter von Bagh's production is the history of everyday Finnish life: images of details conveying something of what the life of the Finns has been like. The films \"Vuosi 1952\" (\"The Year 1952\", 1980), \"Viimeinen kesä 1944\" (\"The Last Summer 1944\", 1992), \"Helsinki, Forever\" (2008) and \"Splinters – A Century Of An Artistic Family\" (2011) provide a magnifying glass for peeking at history, defined by a certain moment in time, location, or an artistic family.\n\nIn a Letter to the Director published in the Pordenone Silent Film Festival catalogue 2008, Chris Marker wrote about von Bagh's film \"Helsinki, Forever\": \"'Few movies may boast a stronger opening sequence, and few movies offer such an extraordinary finale. And in-between I guess what I admire most is the fluidity of the editing, your way to play with time in a manner that comes at once as always surprising and perfectly natural. HELSINKI deserves its rank among the great \"city-poems\", and I'd rate it above Ruttmann, for instance, for one reason: if I read in his BERLIN the social commitment and the aesthetic maestria, I don't feel the personal acquaintance with the city, its history, its ghosts, that I found in yours. Also something that many have a tendency to underestimate but which for me is crucial: the music. The Zeppelin sequence by itself carries a haunting beauty, akin to Fellini's liner, but I don't think it would attain this climax of emotion if at that moment the music didn't bring the perfect tune of melancholia. So with the choice of incredible documents and the unfailing mixture of both musical items, editing and score, you made an unforgettable film.\"\n\nVon Bagh made dozens of films for television, including portraits of prominent Finns from different fields (Tapio Rautavaara in \"Tapsa – Slashes from a Rover's Life\", 1980; \"Paavo Nurmi\", 1978; Otto Ville Kuusinen in \"Mies varjossa\", 1994), musicians (\"Olavi Virta\", 1972; \"Suomi Pop\", 1984), actors (\"Tauno Palo\", 1981) and film directors (Edvin Laine, 2006; Mikko Niskanen, 2010).\n\nVon Bagh's fiction films are often documentary in their own way: the main character of \"The Count\" (1971) is Pertti Ylermi Lindgren, a con man elevated to nobility by the tabloid papers. \"Pockpicket\" (1968) is a variation on Robert Bresson's \"Pickpocket\" (1959). In it, an estranged young man attempts to instil tension into his life by slipping banknotes into the wallets of the city-dwellers.\n\nAs a scriptwriter, Von Bagh has participated in the making of Risto Jarva's \"Time of Roses\" (1969), \"Rally\" (1970) and \"When the Heavens Fall..\" (1972).\n\nVon Bagh's literary production includes almost 40 books of non-fiction. In 2007, von Bagh received the Ministry of Education and Culture, Finland's State Award for Public Information for a Lifetime Achievement. The same year his book \"Song of Finland\" was awarded The Finlandia Literary Prize for Non-Fiction. He has received the State Award for Public Information twice, in 1986 for \"Iskelmän kultainen kirja\" (\"Golden Book of Finnish Pop Songs\" co-author Ilpo Hakasalo) and in 1975 for \"Elokuvan historia\" (\"History of Cinema\". In 1992 The Finnish Literature Society SKS presented him with the SKS Elias Lönnroth Award for \"Suomalaisen elokuvan kultainen kirja\" (Golden Book of Finnish Cinema\").\n\nVon Bagh's essays and articles have been published in several film books and magazines both in Finland and abroad. The most famous of these are the French L'Écran, Cahiers du cinéma, Trafic and Cinema 02, the Italian Cinegrafie, the Spanish Nosferatu, the Swedish Chaplin, the British Movie, etc.\n\nUp until his death Peter von Bagh worked as the editor-in-chief of Filmihullu, the magazine he founded in 1968.\n\nAbroad, von Bagh worked as a cinema expert for the French non-fiction publishing house Larousse in 2009, and as a permanent contributing editor of the Italian Einaudi publishing company.\n\nPeter von Bagh was also active promoter of literature in his native country, working as an editor and preface writer for the Love kirjat publishing company during 1977–1996. The titles published by Love kirjat, more than one hundred, include translations of world literature classics from Aiskhylos (\"Oresteia\", Love 1991) to Balzac (\"Lost Illusions\", Love 1983, \"The Splendors and Miseries of Courtesans\"', Love 1991), from Jack London (\"The Iron Heel\", Love 1977) to August Strindberg (\"Pieni katekismus\", Love 1981), to poetry (e.g. Matti Rossi), essayism (e.g. Raoul Palmgren) and detective stories (James Cain: \"Double Indemnity\", Love 1982), literature research (György Lukács \"Balzac ja ranskalainen realismi\", Love 1978), not forgetting economics, military history, and Sigmund Freud \"The Joke and Its Relation to the Unconscious\", Love 1983).\n\nLove kirjat has also brought several fundamental works of film literature to the Finnish readers, e.g. André Bazin's essays (Love 1981, 1990), Sergei Eisenstein's \"Film Form: Essays in Film Theory\" (Love, 1978); Federico Fellini's \"Fellini on Fellini\" (Love, 1980) and \"Giulietta\" (Love, 1990); Jean Renoir's \"My Life And My Films\" (Love, 1980), for which Peter von Bagh has written a preface. Other important Love translations are \"Elokuva Godardin mukaan\", a collection of film criticism by Jean-Luc Godard, translated into Finnish by Sakari Toiviainen (Love, 1984), and François Truffaut's \"The Films in My Life\" (Love, 1982).\n\nBesides film literature, Love also published elemental work of other art forms, e.g. Meyerhold's \"A Revolution in Theatre\" (Love, 1981) and Hanns Eisler's essays on music (Love, 1980).\n\nThe Midnight Sun Film Festival was founded in 1986 on the initiative of Anssi Mänttäri. In addition to Mänttäri, the Festival policy and guidelines were created by Kaurismäki brothers, Mika and Aki Kaurismäki and Peter von Bagh.\n\nThe key elements of this festival of the midnight sun are the magical light of the North, and the film screenings. Contrary to the glittering award forums, the Midnight Sun Film Festival does not look for glamour. Instead, the main role is given to the films. The programming includes both classics and forward-looking works from the world over. They are presented in their original format, the silent films accompanied by live music.\n\nThe two-hour morning discussions, hosted by Peter von Bagh throughout the Festival's history, are internationally unique items. From discussions with hundreds of guests, Peter von Bagh has selected the best elements for his book \"Sodankylä, Forever\" (WSOY, 2010) and a four-part documentary series of the same name. The series has garnered extensive praise at the world's film forums, e.g. at Lincoln Center in New York in August 2011 when Nico Baumbach wrote in Film Comment (Sept/Oct 2011):\n\n\"\"Von Bagh's four-part series is a wise and generous act of preservation. Assembled largely from interviews with directors conducted over a 25-year period at the Midnight Sun Film Festival he runs in the tiny Finnish municipality of Sodankylä, the film does a double duty as a celebration of the festival itself and as a veritable history of cinema and the 20th century. As von Bagh explains, the life of cinema is short enough \"that a small festival far up north can span it completely.\" One of the questions addressed to all guests – \"What was the first film you saw?\" – becomes a way to extend the story of the festival back to the silent era, because a \"festival is as deep as the memory it contains.\"\"\n\nThe Midnight Sun Film Festival guest list include e.g. the French Chris Marker, Jean Rouch, Jean-Pierre Gorin, Jean-Pierre Léaud, Claude Chabrol, Jacques Demy, Agnès Varda, Robert Guédiguian and the brothers Pierre and Luc Dardenne, the Iranian Jafar Panahi, Abbas Kiarostami and Samira Makhmalbaf, the Hungarian István Szabó, Miklós Jancsó and Béla Tarr, the Polish Krzysztof Kieslowski, Agnieszka Holland, Jerzy Kawalerowicz and Krzysztof Zanussi, the Czech Ivan Passer and Miloš Forman, the Russian Marlen Khutsiev, Andrei Konchalovsky, Alexei German, Andrei Smirnov. Samuel Fuller, D. A. Pennebaker, Jim Jarmusch, Roger Corman, Vincent Sherman, Joseph H. Lewis and Francis Ford Coppola from the USA, the Argentinian Fernando Solanas, the Palestinian Elia Suleiman, the Israeli Amos Gitai, the German Wim Wenders and Robby Müller, the Egyptian Youssef Chahine, the Malinese Souleymane Cissé, the Italians Nanni Moretti, Paolo Taviani, Sergio Sollima and Dino Risi. Dusan Makavejev and Emir Kusturica from former Yugoslavia, and already during the first year, Michael Powell from the United Kingdom.\n\nIn addition, the festival has had the privilege of being able to listen to major film writers like Joāo Bénard da Costa, Jim Hoberman, Jean Douchet, Bernard Eisenschitz and Olaf Möller.\n\nSince 2001 Peter von Bagh has worked as the Artistic Director of Il Cinema Ritrovato Festival in Bologna. The Festival specializes in \"recovered\" treasures, previously believed lost or unknown, silent films and restored prints. The screen annually erected in Piazza Maggiore in Bologna at the turn of June/July attracts an audience of thousands of spectators. The Festival audience includes both local cinephiles and international specialists of the field.\n\nVon Bagh also acted as an Artistic Expert for San Sebastián International Film Festival in 2009, the Visiting Artistic Director of the Telluride Film Festival in 1997, and as a member of the Cannes Film Festival Competition section in 2004.\n\nPeter von Bagh worked as the Executive Director of the Finnish Film Archive in 1966–1969, and as the Programme Planner until 1984. During that period, the Archive's programming gained its present esteemed reputation, and the number of screenings proliferated.\n\nIn the speech von Bagh gave at the FIAF (International Federation of Film Archives) conference in Lisbon in 1989 he emphasized: \n\"When I started the Archive offered only two screenings per week. I immediately increased the number of screenings to four. Soon we managed to screen eight films each week. A few years passed this way, and when the confidence of the audience had solidified, we began to screen three films a day.\" It was a golden era for the cinemas in Helsinki. An example: \"In the 1970s Bresson's films brought in more money in Helsinki than in Paris.\"\n\nPeter von Bagh continues: \"Many archives have fallen for easy baits and an emphasis on fashionable films. That is the best way to lose an audience whose confidence can only be won through a patient building process. Officials equipped with short-sighted calculations may find it difficult to understand why a small archive would order a rare film from a distant country for one screening only. Calculations like this easily paralyzes socio-cultural activities altogether. The discrepancy hangs in the air, written in fiery letters: the audience seems to be drooling after de Palma and Eastwood, although an inner voice calls you to screen bodies of works scrutinizing the output of Victor Sjöström and Carl Th. Dreyer...\nThe first screening of Victor Sjöström or Carl Th. Dreyer might bring in fifteen people, but after five years and some more efforts there will be a full house. The preservation prints of an early Yevgeni Bauer film, or Maurice Tourneur's \"The Wishing Ring\" (which would be almost nothing in 16 mm or in video) will look just miraculous to any public that comes in – and there will be one once you build a place where everyone can trust that miracles take place, almost on daily basis. --. In the beginning a film maybe a complete unknown but the visiting card it leaves behind remains forever: a wonderful beauty.\"\n\nIn the same speech, von Bagh defines the responsibilities of the archives: preservation of a confidential relationship with the audience, protection and restoration of the classics, and especially domestic films, and supportto film clubs as a common film bank which makes the screenings possible.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHundreds of radio programmes from 1961, including extensive series:\n\nSininen laulu (\"The Song of Finland\")\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1626440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1626440", "title": "Philippine languages", "text": "Philippine languages\n\nIn linguistics, the Philippine languages are a proposal by Zorc (1986) and Robert Blust (1991, 2005) that all the languages of the Philippines and northern Sulawesi—except Sama–Bajaw (languages of the \"Sea Gypsies\") and a few languages of Palawan—form a subfamily of Austronesian languages. Although the Philippines is near the center of Austronesian expansion from Formosa, there is little linguistic diversity among the approximately 150 Philippine languages, suggesting that earlier diversity has been erased by the spread of the ancestor of the modern Philippine languages.\n\nFrom approximately north to south, the Philippine languages are divided into the following subgroups:\n\n\nIn addition, the Ati, Umiray Dumaget, Manide, and Inagta Alabat languages are unclassified within the Philippine family, and are considered by Reid (2013) to be early splits from Proto-Malayo-Polynesian.\n\nLawrence Reid (1982, 2017, 2018) rejects the genetic unity of the Philippine languages, and considers the Philippine languages to form a linkage rather than a unified genetic subgroup. Reid (2018) lists the following branches and languages as separate Malayo-Polynesian branches.\n\nReid (2013) accepts the following branches as well-defined subgroups spoken within the geographical Philippines.\n\nComparison chart between several selected Philippine languages spoken from north to south with Proto-Austronesian first for comparison.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29770050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29770050", "title": "Reparation (psychoanalysis)", "text": "Reparation (psychoanalysis)\n\nThe term reparation was used by Melanie Klein (1921) to indicate a psychological process of making mental repairs to a damaged internal world. In object relations theory, it represents a key part of the movement from the paranoid-schizoid position to the depressive position — the pain of the latter helping to fuel the urge to reparation.\n\nKlein considered the ability to recognise our destructive impulses towards those we love, and to make reparation for the damage we have caused them, to be an essential part of mental health. A key condition for this to take place is the recognition of one's separateness from one's parents, which makes possible the reparative attempt to restore their inner representations, however damaged these may be felt to be.\n\nAcceptance of reality, inner and outer, forms a major part of this process; it involves both an abandonment of fantasies of omnipotence, and accepting the independent existence of one's objects of attachment.\n\nWhere the damage done to the internal world is felt by a patient to be extreme, however, the task of reparation may seem too great — which is one of the obstacles facing the analytic attempt at cure.\n\nKleinian thought distinguishes between true reparation and manic reparation, the latter being driven by guilt rather than overcoming it. Manic reparation denies the pain and concern of feeling guilty by using magical methods of repair which maintain omnipotent control of the object in question, and refuse to allow it its separate existence. Thus manic reparation has to be endlessly repeated, since success would free the object from the manic person's (contemptuous) power.\n\nDonald Winnicott made his own distinctive contribution to the role of reparation in the \"personalising\" of the individual, the move from the ruthless use of the external object to a sense of concern. Winnicott focused on the way at a certain stage of development a feeling of guilt or concern begins to appear after the wholehearted instinctual experience of a feed. But once the reparative gesture—a smile, a gift—has been successfully acknowledged by the mother, Winnicott writes: \"The breast (body, mother) is now mended and the day's work is done. Tomorrow's instincts can be awaited with limited fear\". The child's contribution is a way of accepting the debt owed to the mother, for their survival and their participation in the work of reparation. If, on the other hand, the reparative gesture is not accepted, the infant is left with a feeling of depression or meaninglessness. \n\nA similar dynamic may later appear between patient and analyst, with the making of progress being offered as a means of reparation.\n\nKleinians considered that artistic creation was driven by the phantasy of repairing the loved object (mother). \n\nMarion Milner in the Independent tradition also saw art as a way of both symbolizing and enacting inner reparation; but was criticised by Kleinians for giving too large a role to the omnipotent feelings of the artist in reparation.\n\nMelanie Klein, \"Love, Guilt and Reparation\" (2013)\n\n"}
{"id": "2036528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036528", "title": "Russian Wikipedia", "text": "Russian Wikipedia\n\nThe Russian Wikipedia (, 'Russkaya Vikipediya') is the Russian-language edition of Wikipedia. As of , , it has . It was started on 11 May 2001. In October 2015 it became the sixth-largest Wikipedia by the number of articles. It has the fifth-largest number of edits (). Since 2016, Alexa Internet rankings tend to show it as the world's most visited language Wikipedia after English Wikipedia.\n\nIt is the largest Wikipedia written in any Slavic language, surpassing its nearest rival, the Polish Wikipedia, eightfold by the parameter of . In addition, the Russian Wikipedia is the largest Wikipedia written in Cyrillic or in a script other than Latin script. In April 2016, the project had 3,377 active editors who made at least five edits in that month, ranking third behind the English and Spanish versions.\n\nDifficult issues are resolved through the , which handles content disputes, blocks users or prohibits certain users from editing articles on certain topics.\n\nAdministrators (currently ) are elected through a vote; a minimum quorum of 30 voters and 66% of support votes are required if the request is to be considered successful. Administrators who have become inactive (i.e. have not used administrative tools, such as \"delete\" or \"block\" buttons, at least 25 times in six months) may lose their privileges by an Arbitration Committee decision.\n\nAs of 1 June 2012, some of the biggest categories (which contain more than 5,000 articles) in the Russian Wikipedia are:\n\n10,340 articles contain material from the \"Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary\".\n\nMore than 11,000 articles were translated from the English Wikipedia.\n\nIn addition to common Wikipedia namespaces, the Russian Wikipedia has three custom ones: \"Incubator\" (# 102–103) – which is used as a training camp for new users and their first articles, \"Project\" (# 104–105) – for and \"Arbitration\" (# 106–107) – for requests.\n\nIn 2015, Roman Leibov, a professor at University of Tartu, in an interview opined that articles related to humanities in the Russian Wikipedia are of considerably inferior quality compared to English Wikipedia, and some articles even deteriorate with time. He suggested that this effect is due to overzealous policing of intellectual property rights by the community and bemoaned poor editing skills of some Wikipedians.\n\nThe Russian Wikipedia was created on 20 May 2001 in the first wave of non-English Wikipedias, along with editions in Catalan, Chinese, Dutch, German, Esperanto, French, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish.\n\nThe first edit of the Russian Wikipedia was on 24 May 2001, and consisted of the line (\"\"Russia is a great nation\"). The following edit changed it to the joke: (\"Russia is the motherland of elephants (big-eared, improved cross-country capability, see Mammoth.\"\")\n\nFor a long time development was slow (especially after some participants left for WikiZnanie), but in the 12-month period between February 2005 and February 2006 it surpassed nine editions in other languages – the Catalan, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Hebrew, Finnish, Norwegian, Chinese, Esperanto and Danish Wikipedias.\nIn 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010 the Russian Wikipedia won the \"Science and education\" category of the \"Runet Prize\" () award, supervised by the Russian government agency FAPMC.\n\nOn 10 July 2012 Russian Wikipedia closed access to its content for 24 hours in protest against proposed amendments to Russia's Information Act (Bill No. 89417-6) regulating the accessibility of Internet-based information to children. Among other things, the bill stipulates the creation and country-wide enforcement of blacklists, which would block access to forbidden sites. Several aspects of this amendment drew criticism from various civil rights activists and Internet providers. In particular, the blacklist inclusion criteria were characterized as \"too vague\" and \"paving the way for Internet censorship\".\n\nSupporters of the amendment stated that it is aimed only at widely prohibited content such as child pornography and similar information, but the Russian has declared that conditions for determining the content falling under this law will create a thing like the \"great Chinese firewall\". They further claimed that existing Russian legal practice demonstrates a high likelihood of a worst-case scenario, resulting in a country-wide ban of Wikipedia. The second and the third readings of the law were held in the State Duma on 11 July; no essential corrections were introduced. The law will come into force after three readings in the State Duma, one reading in the Federation Council and presidential approval.\n\nOn 10 July, Nikolai Nikiforov, Russian Minister for Telecommunications and Mass Media announced in his Twitter account, that the organization of the List of the prohibited websites (that was sited on the Law Project No. 89417-6) will be suspended until 1 November 2012. On the same day Yelena Mizulina, a Duma deputy and the head of the subcommittee which sponsored the law, said that the blackout is an attempt to blackmail the Duma and was sponsored by the \"pedophile lobby\".\n\nAlso, since 2012, Russian foreign agent law resulted in reduced funding available for the Russian Wikipedia and its volunteers, who no longer can receive financial aid from abroad, including their share of funds raised through global Wikipedia fundraisers.\n\nOn 5 April 2013, it was confirmed by a spokesperson for the Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media that Wikipedia had been blacklisted over the article '' on Russian Wikipedia. On 31 March 2013 the \"New York Times\" reported that Russia was 'Selectively Blocking [the] Internet', though Wikipedia itself was not blocked at that time.\n\nThe entire Russian Wikipedia was blocked in the Russian Federation for a few hours in August 2015 due to the contents of the article on charas.\n\nArticles on Russian Wikipedia, and also on other Wikipedia versions, concerning the flight MH17 down-shoot and the 2014 Ukraine conflict have been targeted by Internet propaganda outlets associated with the Russian government. Some of the edits were spotted by a twitter bot which monitors Wikipedia edits made from Russian government IP addresses. \n\n"}
{"id": "1468089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1468089", "title": "Sentence diagram", "text": "Sentence diagram\n\nIn pedagogy and theoretical syntax, a sentence diagram or \"parse tree\" is a pictorial representation of the grammatical structure of a sentence. The term \"sentence diagram\" is used more in pedagogy, where sentences are \"diagrammed\". The term \"parse tree\" is used in linguistics (especially computational linguistics), where sentences are \"parsed\". Their purposes are to demonstrate the structure of sentences. The model is informative about the relations between words and the nature of syntactic structure and is thus used as a tool to help predict which sentences are and are not possible.\n\nMost methods of diagramming in pedagogy are based on the work of Alonzo Reed and Brainerd Kellogg in their book \"Higher Lessons in English,\" first published in 1877, though the method has been updated with recent understanding of grammar. Reed and Kellogg were preceded, and their work probably informed, by W. S. Clark, who published his \"balloon\" method of depicting grammar in his 1847 book \"A Practical Grammar: In Which Words, Phrases & Sentences are Classified According to Their Offices and Their Various Relationships to Each Another.\"\n\nSome schoolteachers continue to use the Reed–Kellogg system in teaching grammar, but others have discouraged it in favor of more modern tree diagrams. However, these modern tree structures draw on techniques that were already present in Reed–Kellogg diagrams. Reed and Kellogg defend their system in the preface to their grammar:\n\n\"The Objections to the Diagram.\"--The fact that the pictorial diagram groups the parts of a sentence according to their offices and relations, and not in the order of speech, has been spoken of as a fault. It is, on the contrary, a merit, for it teaches the pupil to look through the literary order and discover the logical order. He thus learns what the literary order really is, and sees that this may be varied indefinitely, so long as the logical relations are kept clear.\n\nThe assertion that correct diagrams can be made mechanically is not borne out by the facts. It is easier to avoid precision in oral analysis than in written. The diagram drives the pupil to a most searching examination of the sentence, brings him face to face with every difficulty, and compels a decision on every point.\n\nThese statements bear witness to the fact that Reed–Kellogg diagrams abstract away from actual word order in order to focus more intently on how words in sentences function and relate to each other.\n\nSimple sentences in the Reed–Kellogg system are diagrammed according to these forms:\nThe diagram of a simple sentence begins with a horizontal line called the \"base\". The subject is written on the left, the predicate on the right, separated by a vertical bar which extends through the base. The predicate must contain a verb, and the verb either requires other sentence elements to complete the predicate, permits them to do so, or precludes them from doing so. The verb and its object, when present, are separated by a line that ends at the baseline. If the object is a direct object, the line is vertical. If the object is a predicate noun or adjective, the line looks like a backslash, \\, sloping toward the subject.\n\nModifiers of the subject, predicate, or object are placed below the base line:\n\nModifiers, such as adjectives (including articles) and adverbs, are placed on slanted lines below the word they modify. Prepositional phrases are also placed beneath the word they modify; the preposition goes on a slanted line and the slanted line leads to a horizontal line on which the object of the preposition is placed.\n\nThese basic diagramming conventions are augmented for other types of sentence structures, e.g. for coordination and subordinate clauses.\n\nThe connections to modern principles for constructing parse trees are present in the Reed–Kellogg diagrams, although Reed and Kellogg understood such principles only implicitly. The principles are now regarded as the constituency relation of phrase structure grammars and the dependency relation of dependency grammars. These two relations are illustrated here adjacent to each other for comparison:\n\nConstituency is a one-to-one-or-more relation; every word in the sentence corresponds to one or more nodes in the tree diagram. Dependency, in contrast, is a one-to-one relation; every word in the sentence corresponds to exactly one node in the tree diagram. Both parse trees employ the convention where the category acronyms (e.g. N, NP, V, VP) are used as the labels on the nodes in the tree. The one-to-one-or-more constituency relation is capable of increasing the amount of sentence structure to the upper limits of what is possible. The result can be very \"tall\" trees, such as those associated with X-bar theory. Both constituency-based and dependency-based theories of grammar have established traditions.\n\nReed–Kellogg diagrams employ both of these modern tree generating relations. The constituency relation is present in the Reed–Kellogg diagrams insofar as subject, verb, object, and/or predicate are placed equi-level on the horizontal base line of the sentence and divided by a vertical or slanted line. In a Reed–Kellogg diagram, the vertical dividing line that crosses the base line corresponds to the binary division in the constituency-based tree (S → NP + VP), and the second vertical dividing line that does not cross the baseline (between verb and object) corresponds to the binary division of VP into verb and direct object (VP → V + NP). Thus the vertical and slanting lines that cross or rest on the baseline correspond to the constituency relation. The dependency relation, in contrast, is present insofar as modifiers dangle off of or appear below the words that they modify.\n\nOne can render Reed–Kellogg diagrams according to modern tree conventions. When one does so, the result is a hybrid dependency-constituency tree. The Reed–Kellogg diagrams above appear as the following trees:\n\nA mixing of labeling conventions (i.e. category label vs. actual word) helps draw attention to the presence of both constituency and dependency. The S and VP in these trees mark the constituency relation and the words themselves mark the dependency relation. A major difference between these hybrid trees and the Reed–Kellogg diagrams, however, is that the hybrid trees encode actual word order, whereas the Reed–Kellogg diagrams are abstracting away from actual word order in order to focus more on function.\n\nA sentence may also be broken down by functional parts: subject, object, adverbial, verb (predicator). The subject is the owner of an action, the verb represents the action, the object represents the recipient of the action, and the adverbial qualifies the action. The various parts can be phrases rather than individual words.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "256726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256726", "title": "Sopranist", "text": "Sopranist\n\nA sopranist (also, sopranista or male soprano) is a male singer who is able to sing in the vocal tessitura of a soprano usually through the use of falsetto vocal production. This voice type is a specific kind of countertenor. In rare cases an adult man may be able to sing in the soprano range using his normal or modal voice and not falsetto due to endocrinological reasons, like Radu Marian, or as a result of a larynx that has not completely developed as in the case of Michael Maniaci.\n\nA sopranist is able to sing in the soprano vocal range which is approximately between C and C, though at times may expand somewhat higher or lower. Men of all voice types can possess the wide-ranged and effective reinforced falsetto needed to produce the contralto, mezzo-soprano and soprano vocal ranges. Some countertenors can sing up into the female vocal tessituras using the modal register (normal singing production) and need not employ any falsetto. However, this extension does not reach into the upper part of soprano range going no further than an E or F. Therefore, sopranists must at some point employ falsetto to sing notes in the upper part of the soprano tessitura. The exception would be those rare singers mentioned above.\n\nTypically, the term \"soprano\" refers to female singers but at times the term \"male soprano\" has been used by men who sing in the soprano vocal range using falsetto vocal production instead of the modal voice. This practice is most commonly found in the context of choral music in England. However, these men are more commonly referred to as countertenors or sopranists. The practice of referring to countertenors as \"male sopranos\" is somewhat controversial within vocal pedagogical circles as these men do not produce sound in the same physiological way that female sopranos do. Michael Maniaci and Radu Marian can refer to themselves as true male sopranos because they are able to sing in the soprano vocal range using the modal voice. Maniaci is able to do this because his larynx never fully developed as do most other men's voices during puberty.\n\nThere is a large body of music for the male soprano that was written when it was common to use a castrato – a voice type which, for all intents and purposes, no longer exists, as the practice of castrating trebles was abolished before the end of the 19th century. Sopranists are very rare, since most countertenors are altos and mezzos. In fact, probably because early famous countertenors were altos (like Alfred Deller), it was believed for a long time that countertenors can only be altos (and later, mezzo countertenors, like David Daniels or Jochen Kowalski were recognized). While there is some modern repertoire written for countertenors (sometimes written specifically for certain singers, like Britten's \"Death in Venice\", which has a part that was written specifically for James Bowman), at present there are only a small number of modern pieces written specifically for the sopranist vocal type. An exception is Alfred Schnittke's 1995 opera \"Historia von D. Johann Fausten\" which calls for both a female alto and a male soprano Mephistopheles.\n\nPresent day notable sopranists include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1424595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424595", "title": "Spherical space form conjecture", "text": "Spherical space form conjecture\n\nIn geometric topology, the spherical space form conjecture states that a finite group acting on the 3-sphere is conjugate to a group of isometries of the 3-sphere.\n\nThe conjecture is implied by Thurston's geometrization conjecture, which was proven by Grigori Perelman in 2003. The conjecture was independently proven for groups whose actions have fixed points—this special case is known as the Smith conjecture. It is also proven for various groups acting without fixed points, such as cyclic groups whose orders are a power of two (Livesay, Myers) and cyclic groups of order 3 (Rubinstein).\n"}
{"id": "16336350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16336350", "title": "Style tribe", "text": "Style tribe\n\nA style tribe or fashion tribe is a group of people that dress in a distinctive style to show their membership in this group. Examples include punks, goths, hip-hop devotees, and ravers. The term \"style tribe\" appears to have been coined by anthropologist Ted Polhemus, who analyzed style tribes in terms of the modern primitive and an abandonment of a linear trajectory of progress in fashion.\n\n"}
{"id": "35181575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35181575", "title": "Takunyapé language", "text": "Takunyapé language\n\nTakunyapé (Tacunhape) is an extinct Tupi–Guaraní language of Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "13790964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13790964", "title": "Telephony portal", "text": "Telephony portal\n\nA telephony portal is a platform that aggregates many SIP IP telephony account providers through a unified service. It allows the user to choose one or many SIP VoIP operators or IP telephony operators to use into an SIP phone. Whoever the SIP telephony operator is the user can access to the portal services transparently from VoIP software, whether the service is IPTV, dating services, Wi-Fi location-based content etc. Paid services, such as Wi-Fi access or paid TV, can be billed through the operator when the portal and the operator have interconnected their billing systems. \n\nTelephony portals are usually composed of a web site that features IP telephony operators, and various services that can be accessed from an IP phone and a software that can be a widget that can be used on a PC, a Wi-Fi GSM handset or a Wi-Fi PDA. The software can be downloaded from the telephony portal web site; it is delivered with the features selected from the web site.\n"}
{"id": "10684981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10684981", "title": "Ustad Daman", "text": "Ustad Daman\n\nUstad Daman , (real name Chiragh Deen), \n, (4 September 1911 – December 3, 1984) was a Punjabi poet, writer and a mystic. He was the most celebrated Punjabi language poet at the time of the Partition of British India in 1947.\n\"Eh Duniya Mandi Paise Di, Har Cheej Vikendi Bhaa Sajjna,\nEthe Ronde Chehre Vikde Nahi, Hasne Di Aadat Paa Sajjna\"...\nA severe critic of military dictators who ruled over Pakistan for many decades, his most quoted lines censure the state of affairs in his country:\n\nHe goes on:\nHe was introduced into politics by Mian Iftikharuddin, a known left-leaning politician, a member of Pakistan Movement and owner of Pakistan Times - a major newspaper in Lahore, Pakistan. Ustad Daman was introduced originally as part of the struggle for independence from the British rule. A tailor by profession, in 1930, he stitched a suit for Iftikharuddin, who got impressed by his inspiring poetry verse, when the two met each other at his shop. He invited Ustad Daman to recite his poem at a public meeting organised by the Indian National Congress, where Ustad Daman became an instant hit. Pandit Nehru, who was present at that public meeting, dubbed him the ‘Poet of Freedom’ after listening to his revolutionary anti-imperialist poetry. At the time of 1947 Partition of British India, his shop and house were burned down by rioting mobs and his wife and young daughter were killed. However, Ustad Daman decided to stay in Lahore and the newly created country of Pakistan. He remained, throughout his life, a fierce opponent of dictatorship, civilian or military, and all corruption and hypocrisy. His work and poetry were published as 'Daman dey Moti' after his death by his devoted followers and admirers. The poems he wrote are still widely quoted in the Punjab as well as in other regions of Pakistan. He first wrote under the pen name 'Humdam', which was later changed to 'Daman'. The title ‘Ustad’ (meaning teacher or expert) was bestowed on him by the local people. After that he became a regular participant in these political public meetings. He believed that the unity of Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs was essential, if the struggle for freedom from the British, was to be carried on successfully. An example of his poetry:\n\n<poem style=\"margin-left:2em\">\nIn China, the Chinese are grand,\nIn Russia they do as they have planned\nIn Japan, its people rule over its strand\nThe British rule the land of England,\nThe French hold the land of France,\nIn Tehran, the Persians make their stand\nThe Afghans hold on to their highland,\nTurkmenistan’s freedom bears the Turkmen’s brand,\nHow very strange is indeed this fact,\nThat freedom in India is a contraband.\n</poem>\n\nThe following poems of Ustad Daman were used in Pakistani films:\n\n\nUstad Daman was last seen on the funeral of Faiz Ahmad Faiz on November 20, 1984. He appeared terribly ill but he had managed to make it to Model Town, Lahore to attend the funeral in a rickshaw. Although the mourners were visibly shocked by Faiz's death but whoever saw Daman was also shaken by his condition. Those who had seen his wrestler-like figure in 'good old days', could not believe their eyes to see the skeleton-like Daman arriving at the gathering with the help of two people. Ustad Daman died two weeks later on 3 December 1984. Veteran Pakistani film actor Allauddin used to visit him frequently in his one-room-residence in Lahore near Anarkali Bazaar. He had a lot of respect for Ustad Daman and treated him like a father-figure. Ustad Daman used to call him 'my adopted son'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42735206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42735206", "title": "Vasant Dev", "text": "Vasant Dev\n\nVasant Deo(1929-25 Jan.1996) was an Indian writer, lyricist and screenwriter and a Hindi academic at Parle College in Mumbai. He worked in Hindi parallel cinema through the 1980s, working with directors like Shyam Benegal, Govind Nihalani and Mahesh Bhatt. He is best known for \"Saanjh Dhale Gagan Tale\" sung by Suresh Wadkar, and \"Mann Kyun Behka\", a Lata Mangeshkar and Asha Bhosle duet in \"Utsav\" (1984) directed by Girish Karnad. He wrote plays and poetry in Marathi, and Marathi to Hindi translator.\n\nAt the 32nd National Film Awards, he won the National Film Award for Best Lyrics for \"Saaransh\" (1984). Subsequently, at the 33rd Filmfare Awards, he won the Filmfare Award for Best Lyricist for song, \"Mann Kyun Behka\" in \"Utsav\". In 1980s, for the television serial Bharat Ek Khoj (Discovery of India), director Shyam Benegal asked Vasant Deo to translate Sanskrit hymns from Rigveda in Hindi. They were set to music by Vanraj Bhatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44805428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44805428", "title": "Vellayani Arjunan", "text": "Vellayani Arjunan\n\nVellayani Arjunan (born 10 February 1933) is an Indian writer, scholar and linguist from Kerala. He has served two terms at the State Institute of Encyclopaedic Publications, a state government agency, as the Chief Editor from 1975 to 1988 and as the director from 2001 to 2004. During his tenure at the institute, seven volumes of the 12 volume Malayalam encyclopedia, Viswasahityavijnanakosam were published. He is credited with several publications including children's literature and critical studies. His book, \"Gaveshana Mekhala\" has been a prescribed text for the post graduate course, MA Malayalam, at the Aligarh Muslim University. A recipient of the Paramacharya Award from Sarojini Bhaskaran Memorial Charitable Public Trust, he was honored by the Government of India, in 2008, with the fourth highest Indian civilian award of Padma Shri.\n\nIn 2015, Aligarh Muslim University awarded him a third D.Litt. degree for his thesis in Malayalam on 'Influence of Sree Narayana Guru on Malayalam Poetry'. He is the first Indian to hold three D.Litt. degrees.\n\nVellayani Arjunan was born on 10 February 1933 to G. Shankara Panicker, an agriculturalist and Narayani, a housewife, at Vellayani, Thiruvananthapuram District, located in the Indian state of Kerala. After procuring a Master of Arts degree in Malayalam, he went on to teach Malayalam Language and Literature at Sree Narayana College, Kollam. He later became the first Malayalam lecturer in Aligarh Muslim University, from where he gained his PhD degree in 1964. After leaving Aligarh Muslim University, he was appointed as the Director of the State Institute of Encyclopaedic Publications in Kerala.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33521271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33521271", "title": "Waci language", "text": "Waci language\n\nWaci (also spelled \"Ouatchi\") is a Gbe language of Togo and Benin. It is part of a dialect continuum which also includes Ewe, and is scattered in an area Capo designates as Ewe speaking.\n\n"}
{"id": "5190349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5190349", "title": "Word error rate", "text": "Word error rate\n\nWord error rate (WER) is a common metric of the performance of a speech recognition or machine translation system.\n\nThe general difficulty of measuring performance lies in the fact that the recognized word sequence can have a different length from the reference word sequence (supposedly the correct one). The WER is derived from the Levenshtein distance, working at the word level instead of the phoneme level. The WER is a valuable tool for comparing different systems as well as for evaluating improvements within one system. This kind of measurement, however, provides no details on the nature of translation errors and further work is therefore required to identify the main source(s) of error and to focus any research effort.\n\nThis problem is solved by first aligning the recognized word sequence with the reference (spoken) word sequence using dynamic string alignment. Examination of this issue is seen through a theory called the power law that states the correlation between perplexity and word error rate.\n\nWord error rate can then be computed as:\n\nwhere\n\nThe intuition behind 'deletion' and 'insertion' is how to get from the reference to the hypothesis. So if we have the reference \"This is wikipedia\" and hypothesis \"This _ wikipedia\", we call it a deletion.\n\nWhen reporting the performance of a speech recognition system, sometimes \"word accuracy (WAcc)\" is used instead:\n\nwhere\nIF I=0 then WAcc will be equivalent to Recall (information retrieval) a ratio of correctly recognized words 'H' to Total number of words in reference 'N'.\n\nNote that since \"N\" is the number of words in the reference, the word error rate can be larger than 1.0, and thus, the word accuracy can be smaller than 0.0.\n\nIt is commonly believed that a lower word error rate shows superior accuracy in recognition of speech, compared with a higher word error rate. However, at least one study has shown that this may not be true. In a Microsoft Research experiment, it was shown that, if people were trained under \"that matches the optimization objective for understanding\", (Wang, Acero and Chelba, 2003) they would show a higher accuracy in understanding of language than other people who demonstrated a lower word error rate, showing that true understanding of spoken language relies on more than just high word recognition accuracy.\n\nOne problem with using a generic formula such as the one above, however, is that no account is taken of the effect that different types of error may have on the likelihood of successful outcome, e.g. some errors may be more disruptive than others and some may be corrected more easily than others. These factors are likely to be specific to the syntax being tested. A further problem is that, even with the best alignment, the formula cannot distinguish a substitution error from a combined deletion plus insertion error.\n\nHunt (1990) has proposed the use of a weighted measure of performance accuracy where errors of substitution are weighted at unity but errors of deletion and insertion are both weighted only at 0.5, thus:\n\nThere is some debate, however, as to whether Hunt’s formula may properly be used to assess the performance of a single system, as it was developed as a means of comparing more fairly competing candidate systems. A further complication is added by whether a given syntax allows for error correction and, if it does, how easy that process is for the user. There is thus some merit to the argument that performance metrics should be developed to suit the particular system being measured.\n\nWhichever metric is used, however, one major theoretical problem in assessing the performance of a system is deciding whether a word has been “mis-pronounced,” i.e. does the fault lie with the user or with the recogniser. This may be particularly relevant in a system which is designed to cope with non-native speakers of a given language or with strong regional accents.\n\nThe pace at which words should be spoken during the measurement process is also a source of variability between subjects, as is the need for subjects to rest or take a breath. All such factors may need to be controlled in some way.\n\nFor text dictation it is generally agreed that performance accuracy at a rate below 95% is not acceptable, but this again may be syntax and/or domain specific, e.g. whether there is time pressure on users to complete the task, whether there are alternative methods of completion, and so on.\n\nThe term \"Single Word Error Rate\" is sometimes referred to as the percentage of incorrect recognitions for each different word in the system vocabulary.\n\nThe word error rate may also be referred to as the length normalized edit distance. The normalized edit distance between X and Y, \"d\"( X, Y ) is defined as the minimum of W( P ) / L ( P ), where P is an editing path between X and Y, W ( P ) is the sum of the weights of the elementary edit operations of P, and L(P) is the number of these operations (length of P).\n\n\n"}
